By Steve KALISKI Staff Writer

How cool is Quentin Tarantino? To answer that question, I’ll inform you that should you walk into “Kill Bill: Volume 1” wondering how many movies Quentin Tarantino has directed, you need not worry about finding the answer: the opening credits tell you. And when “The 4th Film by Quentin Tarantino” flashes on screen, you don’t simply realize that Quentin Tarantino is so cool that he keeps track of his movies for you; you also learn that for the next two hours of your life, you’ll be witnessing the tedious epic of a man utterly obsessed with himself.

Tarantino uses every frame in “Kill Bill,” his bloody, expensive homage to the joyfully cheesy Japanese-Samurai action genre, to educate the audience on how to be an uninhibited badass. It is one of those painfully pretentious projects that rivets you with its tricks for the ten minutes of honeymoon and then drives you crazy for the one hundred minutes of importance. Nothing in this film exists specifically for your entertainment; it’s all made to satisfy Tarantino’s own amusement with Quentin Tarantino. So, if you think along the same lines as him, you may be in luck. For the rest of us, the first installment of “Kill Bill” is an impressive waste of time.

Unlike Tarantino’s previous films (“Reservoir Dogs,” “Pulp Fiction,” “Jackie Brown”), “Kill Bill” features a relatively straightforward plot. Black Mamba (Uma Thurman), a retired member of the Deadly Viper Assassination Squad, receives an unpleasant wedding gift from her former colleagues when she and her unborn child are riddled with bullets at the altar. Somehow surviving a shot to the head (Quentin Tarantino is so cool!) and a lengthy coma, Black Mamba sets out to systematically destroy everyone responsible for her baby’s murder, including the Deadly Viper’s ringleader, Bill. The meat on the bones of this skimpy story consists of lengthy back-stories for each of the doomed assassins and stylized martial arts sequences for Uma’s acrobatic showdowns. Tarantino replaces the reliable wittiness of his dialogue with a banal script that aims for loving parody of the films he honors but that only succeeds in boring its audience.

Still, the primary problem with “Kill Bill: Volume 1” is precisely that it is only one-half of a movie. If you aren’t familiar with the fascinating story of its production, here’s the idea: when Tarantino handed Miramax a three-and-a-half hour print of his film, the studio knew something had to be done to spare audiences of a Cecil B. DeMille-sized dose of cinematic irony. Normally they would hire someone called an editor to trim the celluloid to a tolerable length, but Tarantino, being as cool as he is,

By SARAH ROBINSON Special Contributor

This year, the Davidson Dance Ensemble (DDE) added master classes to the student-led organization’s list of events. The group’s efforts culminate in early November’s concert, which involves over a hundred participants and twenty dances. Last year, DDE received a grant to pay for classes that would bring dance to Davidson. The ensemble used the money for master classes for students of varying abilities. Because many students begin their dance experience with DDE, the classes provide the necessary opportunity to learn correct technique. For more advanced students, the opportunity teaches new skills for choreographing. Kendal Stewart ’06, who has danced since she was three, says, “It’s hard to perform when not getting classes.”

From September to December, the classes focus on specific dance types. Future workshops will include two jazz technique classes (Nov. 15 and Dec. 6) and a beginner/intermediate ballet workshop (Nov. 22). As well as helping the beginner dancers, previous workshops have included a choreography workshop intended to help students with the fall concert. Students may take the classes even if they are not involved with DDE. The classes cost $5 each.

With no dance department or classes at Davidson, DDE gives students a unique opportunity to practice and learn dance in a formal setting. In previous years the DDE concerts have filled DukePerformance Hall, and with many first-year students involved, this semester’s concert promises large audiences again. A wide range of music allows for a variety of dance styles, such as modern, ballet, and jazz. Betsy Pinchak ’04 says, “You won’t see the same performance you saw last semester, because the dances are very much shaped by the dancers that make up the group. We really benefit from the variety of dance backgrounds and skill levels our dancers have. The diversity of dances in our performances also appeals to a wide audience, from those who have grown up attending professional ballets to those who have only seen dance as it appears on TV.”

Pieces this year include “Down With Love,” “Faint,” and “Mambo #5.” The dance styles include modern, hip-hop, popular, and a traditional Korean dance. This fall’s performances are on Nov. 7 and 8 at 8 p.m. in Duke Performance Hall.

LOMA: 704-987-9060 (Behind Town Hall, Next to Food Lion)

Wednesday is All You Can Eat Spaghetti Night!!

Main St.

Uma Thurman and Lucy Liu do battle in ‘Kill Bill: Vol. 1’

With Miramax at his fingertips, he simply cut the film into two segments to be released a few months apart. Because of this confounding move, Volume 1 doesn’t even aspire to stand on its own accord. Tarantino’s unprecedented distributive liberties resulted in a film that has as much interest in closure as the first episode of a TV miniseries. Although the sum total of “Volume 1” is worthless, Tarantino’s crafty decadence succeeds in individual scenes. An extended anime sequence explaining the childhood of Lucy Liu’s feisty O-Ren Ishii engages the audience with a technique that is wildly inventive without being too gimmicky. For the most part, however, Tarantino forgets the secret maxim of such films as “Fight Club” and his own “Pulp Fiction”: snappy films don’t have much bite unless they have a point. Perhaps “Volume 2” will abound in the important revelations missing from this fruitlessly expository first half. Hopefully, Tarantino will prove wrong detractors of “Kill Bill: Volume 1” when he delivers a film with a topic more interesting than himself.

Directed by: Quentin Tarantino
Written by: Quentin Tarantino
Starring: Uma Thurman, Lucy Liu, Vivica A. Fox, Daryl Hannah

10 Halloween Costumes You’ll Want to Don

1. Chico’s Lady/Soccer Mom with Horrid Taste: Go crazy with that Chico’s gift certificate Grandma gave you for your Sweet Sixteen. Pair the Elation Shawl with the Velvet Aspen Mock and you'll be the most convincing Soccer Mom With Horrid Taste on the block.
2. Bottle of Nyquil: Dress up like a bottle of Nyquil. Don’t let anyone drink you.
3. Fly from “The Ring”: Dude, I am totally going as that fly on the screen in “The Ring.” That would be totally freaky.
4. 90s Television Teenager: Try Donna Martin with her blonde helmet and cavernous boobs or Jesse Camp with his electrified hair/brain. Want a low-effort costume? Pull your sweater over your hands and make your eyes really wide. Instant “Party of Five”!
5. Guy in Hawaiian Shirt: Don’t forget a lei.
6. Game Piece: A variety of game pieces present themselves as viable ‘tumes. There’s that strange little Monopoly elfin boot or a Rubik’s Cube. Ooh, or even a Taboo beeper! Make sure to let Daddy rig the electronics, kids!
7. Millard Fillmore: Please, please, don’t ever buy a recent president’s rubber caricature mask at your town’s Party Warehouse. Unless of course you get Millard Fillmore. That guy really rocks!
8. Union Cafe Employees: Any lovers looking for a couple’s costume? Two words: Shane and Phyllis.
9. Modified Mummy: Don’t be the same old mummy this year. Try a new medium, like Christmas lights or Fruit by the Foot.
10. North Meck Kid: I know what I’m doing. Dressing up as a North Meck kid and going to town with eggs and shaving cream. Just like the good ol’ days.