4 THE DAVIDSONIAN _ News WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2003

Cosby, from page 1

"Definitely discussed the possibilities of musical acts, we looked into Ben Harper and Coldplay [both touring abroad this fall]. But
we haven’t done comedy lately, at least since I’ve been here, so this will be something different and fun."

Student demand for diversity. “People are extremely vocal on campus about concerts, sometimes complaining, ‘We’re so tired of college rock,”
she said. “Bill Cosby was a good, diverse option. We knew it would be a clean show and would attract
various generations. Students are our top priority, but it’s really cool when we can attract faculty, staff, and other members
of the Davidson community.”

Some administrators worried that Cosby would only attract an older generation. President Bobby Vagt admitted, “When the idea first came
up, I said to William [Brown, Director of the College Union], ‘I don’t know if students these days, though they
may have watched The Cosby Show, will be interested.”

Associate Dean of Students Kathy Bray-Merrell agreed. “I think he’s the funniest man in America,” she said, “but when they
first started talking about it, I wondered if it would just appeal to us old fogeys. I’m thrilled that students
are excited about it.”

From ticket sales and the mass of students who camped out at the union for premium seats, most people are
excited. More than half of the almost 5,000 tickets have already sold, and those remaining are selling quickly. “The response
has been really good,” said Bannerman, “We had great response from faculty and staff when their tickets went on sale.”
Bannerman said she even heard from students studying abroad this fall who are disappointed to miss the show.

Smith thinks the student rate is particularly enticing. “I think $25 is really reasonable for any concert,” she said. “From
Justin Timberlake down to a semi-national act at the Visualite Theater, you’re going to pay at least $20 or $25.
And it’s $15 cheaper than Dave.”

Comparisons with last year’s concerts extend beyond ticket prices. Bannerman remarked, “Cosby is pretty low maintenance, which is refreshing. He
doesn’t travel with an entourage, except maybe one personal assistant. Very different from Dave Matthews or John Mayer.”

“He’s been doing this for so many years, he’s not going to have a big head like some of the
newer bands we’ve had,” agreed Smith.

Despite the relative ease of accommodation, Cosby still comes with a hefty price tag. Bannerman puts him in the $75,000
- $150,000 price range for a performer, but Smith is quick to clarify that cost. “I think a lot of
people—for whatever reason—misunderstand those figures,” she explained. “For Dave Matthews, people were saying, ‘I can’t believe you spent $150,000 on
this show,’ when in fact, based on income, we only spent $12,500. We make back a lot of the artist
bid with ticket sales.”

A few tickets, however, are going for free. The Brickhouse & 95.1 are sponsoring a comedy contest with a prize
of four front row seats, limo service, and free dinner at the Brickhouse. Joel’s and Ben & Jerry’s are each
giving away two tickets. “There will be some intense, high-profile promotion” of the show, said Bannerman.

Anyone interested in helping with the show should contact Smith. “When we do these big shows, I usually have 35-40
volunteers,” she said. “We work with the staff at Baker and tech services, starting at about 7:30 or 8 in
the morning. We unload sound and stage equipment, check lights and sound, build the stage from the ground up, and
set up dressing rooms.

“Then, when the show is over, we do it in reverse. It’s usually a 20-22 hour day. I’m always amazed
by the willingness of students to volunteer for these shows. They’re not getting paid or anything, they just get a
t-shirt.”

For other students, says Smith, “Attending shows is really underestimated. Just merely showing your support by buying a ticket, coming
to a show and having a good time is really important.

“We try to have fun shows that help release the stress of being in class. And going along with the
whole Davidson idea of building a whole person, we try to reflect that in the diversity of our acts.”

Diversity was another topic in the Readers’ Digest interview. When asked about affirmative action in light of the recent University
of Michigan case, Cosby responded, “It has always been my belief that if people in the audience connected with what
I said, and if they are laughing at what I am saying, then where is our difference? They always saw
the color of my skin. I didn’t turn white while I was on stage.

“Yet if you’re laughing at what I’m saying, and we’re connected, why am I a person who has to have
affirmative action to keep you honest?”226 Ben Harper/Jack Johnson
Coldplay 133
Tom Petty & the Heartbreakers 126
James Taylor 117
50 Cent 111
Dixie Chicks 111
Eric Clapton 90
Bill Cosby 85
Paul Simon 76
Snoop Dogg 72

The votes are in

Last spring, the Concert Committee, in conjunction with SGA, surveyed returning students for interest in potential performers to bring to
campus. The following are the top results from the survey:

Ben Folds 284
O.A.R. 193
Dave Chappelle 154
Nickel Creek 133
Pat McGee Band 122
Nappy Roots 121
Jars of Clay 118
Dashboard Confessional 108
India.Arie 86
Pat Green 66

Over-enrollment, from page 1

"Yet 39.5 percent of the admitted students decided to enroll.” The larger enrollment could potentially lead to a host of
problems from an administrative standpoint. Housing considerations, for example, have lately become a source of contention. RLO Director Leslie Marsicano
asserts that the problem is largely under control. “We have 20 students living in what were formerly lounges, 9 living
in college-owned houses on Thompson Street, and 136 living off campus,” reports Marsicano, adding, “These people living in unusual spaces
are not at a disadvantage.” Marsicano concedes that 50 more students requiring on-campus housing may not seem like an impressive
statistic. Nevertheless, Marsicano says, “At a place the size of Davidson, it’s a hit.”

In order to prepare for this “hit,” the Admissions Office spent the summer coordinating with school officials, departments, and parents
in order to make the transition as smooth as possible. Marsicano recalls being told of the rising population in early
summer, shortly after enrolling freshmen mailed in their deposit checks. “At one point, we had 505 students,” she says, adding
that typically 10 to 20 students change their minds over the summer. Nevertheless, RLO began making the necessary preparations immediately.
“Once the Admissions Office accepts a class, it’s our job to get everyone a room, a bed, an Internet port.”

During the summer flurry, the Admissions Office also had to consider another important factor — financial aid. “This over-enrollment did
press our aid budget, as did returning upper-class students,” says Cable. “We are still within our budgeted amount, but we
did spend more this year.”

Most areas of student life seem to be functioning routinely as usual. Registrar Hansford Epes ’61 reports that class registration
has gone “smoothly,” and Admissions officials have little concern that the rising population will cause instability anytime in the near
future. Cable says that in coming years, “We will use our traditional caution in who we admit, and we will
exercise conservative judgment on yield numbers. It is our intention to have no more than 465 students in the class
of 2008.”

“The good news is that there’s some really great talent in this class. This is a positive problem to have,”
Cable says, “but we must be responsible for controlling it.”

Source: Admissions Office

Cafe, from page 1

Enjoy more flexible dining hours; it was not designed to assist students in accumulating snack items. Nevertheless, Terry noted, “The
vast majority of the stuff included in the Cafe is still on the meal plan.” Some students expressed frustration with
the new policy, observing that they have to use Bonus Bucks or cash to pay for items they consider normal
components of dinner. Allison Kavanagh ’06 remarked, “The last meal I bought, I had a sandwich and yogurt. The sandwich
was on my meal plan but the yogurt wasn’t. I don’t understand why if you buy a sandwich, you can’t
buy a cup of yogurt, too.”

Terry stressed that Auxiliary Services would review the policy throughout the year, saying, “We think it’s the right thing to
do, but we’ll certainly be interested in the feedback we get from folks.” In fact, his staff has already made
at least one modification to the plan. For most of the summer, bottled beverages were not included on the list
of items that could be purchased with a meal plan. However, school officials soon decided that this provision did not
make sense and adjusted their policy accordingly. Kavanagh feels encouraged by the recent revision, commenting, “I think it’s great that
they were reasonable about the drinks.” Even so, other students remain dissatisfied. Candy Baffourawuah ’06 hopes that Auxiliary Services will
drop the policy completely. She said, “If I want to have a granola bar with yogurt, then that’s a meal
for me. Once you’ve chosen your meal plan and paid for your meal plan, you should be able to eat
whatever you want.”

Class of 2007 at a Glance

- 29 African Americans
- 20 Hispanic Americans
- 16 International students
- 1 Native American student
- 20 more men than women
- 15% from North Carolina
- 176 through Early Decision
- 91 recruited athletes for Davidson’s 21 sports
- 76 students with family connections to Davidson (legacies)
- Median SAT score up from 1330 to 1350
- 93% of students were in the top 20% of their HS class
- 34% of students receiving some variety of need-based aid
