Lucy Long: Hopeless Romantic Valentine’s Day Destinations
By Lucy Long, Staff Writer

It’s time to plan your Valentine’s Day. We’ve put together some ideas to get you through it, whether or not
you have a sweetheart.

For Couples
Bring out your zoot suits and dancing shoes because Swing 1000 in Charlotte combines both great food and fun music
with a live swing band. The table reservation is yours for the evening so you can dance and eat your
heart out. Entrées run from $29-$31. Call 704-334-4443 for reservations or book online at swing1000.com.

For romantic music, stay on campus for the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra. The theme is “Mostly Mozart” with an 8 pm
showing in the Duke Family Performance Center. Tickets are $10 general admission.

You can always have a traditional Valentine’s meal at some of the nicer restaurants in the area:

The Melting Pot
A cozy fondue restaurant
901 S. Kings Drive, Charlotte
(704) 334-4400
Entrées $10

The Lamplighter
Variety of menu items located in a 1920’s Charlotte house
1065 E Morehead Street, Charlotte
(704) 372-5354
Entrées $15-$20

Fenwicks
The city’s best comfort food in a neighborhood atmosphere
511 Providence Road, Charlotte
(704) 333-2750
Entrées $6-$18

Kudzu on South Broad
American food in a charming setting just up the road
259 S. Broad Street, Mooresville
(704) 663-1859
Entrées $10-$30

For Singles
This may come as a surprise, but the Charlotte Checkers hockey game is the place to be on Valentine’s Day.
With a thrilling game of ice hockey followed by an open skating session for the fans with the team, you
can’t go wrong! The game is at 7:30 p.m. at the Cricket Arena in Charlotte. Tickets are $7 at the
door. More info at gocheckers.com.

For some honky-tonk bluegrass music, check out the Juke Box Junkies with Joe Smith playing at the Puckett’s Farm Equipment
Co. Inside the old farm store lies a perfect setting for country and bluegrass music: sawdust covers the floor while
farm machinery and car parts decorate the walls. This beer-only joint will have you rockin’ in your boots all night
long. 2740 West Sugar Creek Road, Charlotte (Derita) (704) 597-8230. Call for information.

Love to bowl? Head out to Moor Lanes in Mooresville for a crazy night with good tunes. Don’t forget to
ask for the beer in bowling pin bottles. 770 North Broad Street, Mooresville (704) 664-1653.

GROUPS!! $20 PER ROOM!

Did You Vote?
Did you vote in Monday’s student elections? Why or why not?

“I voted because I think that the people running have an impact, so it’s important to vote so we have
an impact as well.”
Emily Pesses ’04

“I didn’t vote, because it’s not ideologically correct to vote for people you know nothing about.”
Chris Lee ’06

“I did vote, because I think the people I voted for will give voice to student issues and develop leadership
on campus.”
Kathryn Butterworth ’04

“I voted, since by voting for positions like SGA president and Union Board President I can have input into areas
of campus life in which I don’t usually have input.”
Sloan Milliken ’04

BODY and SOUL
A column by the health advisors

Each month this semester, we will have an “EAT PIZZA, TALK” discussion about different health topics. On February 10, we
held our first talk entitled EAT PIZZA, TALK on love, relationships, and sex. Some of the topics and questions that
came up during the talk are discussed below. Stay tuned for information about our next talk on body image and
eating disorders.coming in March.

Jennifer Greene: WOMEN IN THE GAME

While it is conventional to think about foreplay as a natural part of the love-making process, some think that the
underlying implication of foreplay is that women are not capable of readying themselves for sex. Rather, they need someone else
to do it for them. As the Guide to Getting It On says, “You need to warm up the old
Ford on a cold day. Why not the woman you love?” Is foreplay what its name implies—a playful act—or something
that has been instituted because women lack a sexual side? Why do frustrated and angered insults often imply a feminine,
subjugated role in sex?

Lauren Stutts: DO SOUL MATES EXIST?

Romeo and Juliet, Ricky and Lucy, Fred and Wilma... our society purports the existence of soul mates in plays, movies,
and other fictional media; but are there soul mates in real life? Personally, I don’t think there is just one
soul mate for each person. However, I think there are certain people who we connect with more than others, who
we can share anything with, and who can recognize our feelings and needs instinctively—our “soul mates.” Are we destined to
meet one of these soul mates? How are we sure when we find them? These questions are something to consider—maybe
ask your date what he/she thinks on Valentine’s Day.

Celebrity Spring Break brought to you by StudentCity.com! Book now and save up to $100 on all international trips. Party
like a rock star with MAXIM Magazine and Jackass’s Steve-O. Call 1-800-293-1445 for details, e-mail sales@studentcity.com, or book online at
www.studentcity.com.

Stephen Clugston: RAW SEX vs. ‘V’ WORD

The thought of sweating pulsating bodies intimately wrapped around each other in an erotic embrace accompanied by a moaning metronome.
Or not. It’s a decision that one needs to make at some stage in a relationship unless the issue has
already been wonderfully resolved through telepathy. Why would someone go for a quick passionate hump instead of waiting till the
relationship developed some more? More importantly, why wouldn’t they? Some claim that a good dose of fornication can make all
the difference in bringing two people closer together; others can disagree and label such acts as slutty or sinful. Either
way, does it have any meaning? Or are we becoming just as low as the goofballs from American Pie (I
& II), seeking to climb the social ladder (or at least think we are) through the mere act of penile
and vaginal acquaintance?

Felicia Browne: HOW DO YOU KNOW IF YOU LOVE SOMEONE?

I never knew how to answer this question in terms of relationships with my friends and former boyfriends; at least
not until several days ago when I had an amazing conversation about friendship with one of my friends, who said
something that struck me. She said that when she finally considers someone her friend, she makes a promise to herself—to
love, care, and support that person for life, and to not give up on them, regardless of the circumstances. After
this talk, I realized there are not that many people to whom I would make such a promise, which is
possibly the reason I am notorious for unhealthy relationships. It is impossible to think that I can love someone when
I neither hold these relationships to high standards nor truly invest myself in these relationships.

*Speaking of relationships, Purple Bunnies is seeking stories about Toxic Relationships. Send stories to Kristy Marynak @ Box 5284 by
February 14!

Tune in to the Body and Soul radio show on Tuesday evenings between 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. on WALT
1610 AM.
