Sports jerseys: the latest fad

Davidson students get pretty fired up about basketball games. No other sport brings this campus together like hoops does, and with our men’s team fighting for first place in the Southern Conference, Saturday’s game was a big one. Unfortunately, East Tennessee State dealt the ’Cats their first home loss of the season despite the return of everybody’s favorite three-point threat, Peter Anderer. Davidson fans weren’t afraid to blame the loss on the officiating, though, as students “booed” the refs for what seemed like the entire game and school president Bobby Vagt offered his glasses to one official, who apparently forgot his bifocals at home.

Belk Arena was electric in the second half when Brendan Winters (19 points, 3-for-5 from behind the arc) and crew cut the Buccaneer lead to four, encouraging Davidson supporters to reach decibel levels even Ludacris or John Mayer couldn’t touch. What impressed (or shocked) me the most, however, was not so much the play on the court as the fashion show, so to speak, going on in the stands. Never in my life have I seen so many jerseys; you would have thought a pick-up game was slated to begin after the real one ended. But, the funny thing is, most of these jerseys aren’t exactly found at your local Dick’s Sporting Goods. To purchase some of the attire I saw on Saturday night, kids must have to search long and hard and drop slightly more dough than they would for your average Shaq replica. Indeed, one student, an obvious Boston Celtics fan, was flaunting Paul Pierce’s high school jersey. Now, I’m not entirely sure, but odds are that Inglewood High (Calif.) doesn’t sell these babies in the school bookstore. The only vendors for such apparel must be nearly impossible to find, and the prices must range from steep to insane. Adding to his NBA look, this same fan sported heavily gelled hair reminiscent of a former Celtic, Rick Fox. The award for celebrity look-alike, though, goes to the guy wearing the Steve Nash jersey. With his long, unkempt hair, the winner looked almost identical to the Dallas Maverick’s guard—which, to be honest, was a little creepy.

Then, of course, there was the legion of students wearing old-school Davidson jerseys from back when Lefty Driesell ran the show. It looked like the JV team was in the stands, ready to step in should every varsity player mysteriously come down with an injury. Don’t be fooled, the whole jersey-wearing phenomenon isn’t limited to college students. One report from the Babysitters Club (the women’s lacrosse team watches young kids during games to raise money) claimed that a four-year-old named Jevon proudly wore Jason Kidd’s replica jersey. You know you’ve really made it in life when they make clothes bearing your name that can fit both Big Pun and little Jevon.

Interestingly enough, jerseys from all sports, not just basketball, were represented on Saturday night. One student, clearly showing his excitement for spring training to begin, marched around wearing a Sammy Sosa t-shirt. Another fan, apparently displaying his passion for football to impress Coach Toop’s 20 or so recruits, was dressed in XXXL Brian Urlacher threads. I also saw a Manchester United top, a throwback Lakers uniform and, my personal favorite, one young woman dressed in a Mia Hamm jersey. I’m not sure what exactly compels people to wear jerseys to athletic contests (maybe they feel more involved in the game), but it looks as though the latest fashion is wearing clothes that, for all intents and purposes, belong in a gym locker. And so, while the 3,436 fans in Belk Arena on Saturday night failed to cheer Davidson on to victory, most of them sure looked good trying.

Women’s tennis wins third straight; put out Flames

By BRANDON JACOB
Staff Writer

The women’s tennis team extended its winning streak Saturday morning with a shutout of the Flames of Liberty University. For the third straight match, the Davidson doubles team routed their opponents, dropping only two games. Leading the charge were the Fillnow sisters, who defeated Liberty’s number one doubles combination 8-1. In the number two doubles slot, Meggie Patterson ’05 made her season debut after missing the previous two matches in a winning combination with Lindsay Powel ’06, 8-1. Completing the sweep in the third doubles spot were Katherine Hatch ’04 and Sarah Borkowski ’05. This last pairing was the only of the doubles pairs not to drop a single game to the Flames.The Wildcats’ winning ways continued into singles play. In the top spot, Kelly Fillnow ’05 continued her dominance of opponents, defeating Andreea Cotuna in convincing fashion 6-0, 6-1. Playing for the first time this season in the number two slot, Patterson defeated Ana Gonzalezdorado 6-0, 6-1. Meghan Fillnow ’05 made a triumphant move to the number three spot, blanking her opponent, Clara Gonzalezdorado, 6-0, 6-0. Powel continued her winning ways by defeating Maria Solc, 6-2, 6-0. Providing depth for the Wildcat line-up, Katherine Hatch ’04 and Catherine Rainbow ’03, the number 5 and 6 spot holders, both blanked their opponents 6-0, 6-0. In the only down note of the young season, the match scheduled for Monday against High Point was canceled due to weather. The team will next take the court against UNC Wilmington in Wilmington this Saturday.

Sports INFORMATION Press Release

The 2003 season will be different than that of 2002. The Wildcats now have a taste of the American Lacrosse Conference and know what they need to do to succeed in a very competitive conference. The expectations have been raised and the 'Cats are ready to play one of the hardest schedules in Division I. Davidson is set to play several top-20 teams including North Carolina, Duke, Vanderbilt, John Hopkins, William & Mary, Penn State, and Ohio State. With the graduation of four seniors in 2002, things are going to look a little different on the field. Fans and opponents will no longer see the talented Otto twins who, in 2002, combined for 46 goals and 11 assists. The Wildcats will have an array of veterans and several newcomers to pose as scoring threats. On the defensive end, the Wildcats possess great depth and have one of Davidson’s best goalies in the cage. Coach Schwartz will be looking to the seniors to be leaders on the field.

“I am very excited about this year’s captains; they add leadership, drive, and discipline to the 2003 squad.” Co-captains Emily Rice and Becca McDevitt will be anchoring the defense while Loren Seaton and Allison Matlack will be helping to lead the attack to many scoring opportunities. McDevitt will be seen on the attack as well, as she is training to run the midfield in her final season as a Wildcat. “Becca’s quick moves and power can add a new edge to the offensive unit.” On attack in 2002, Seaton led the team in assists with 16 and was second in goals with 22. Junior Becca Nussbaum is expected to be back in the cage again, looking to add to her long list of achievements. As a freshman, she broke Davidson records for single-season minutes played and single-season saves. Junior Lauren Williams will be back in the midfield helping the Wildcats’ transition game along with sophomores Whitney Diefendorf and Lindsay Frank. Sophomore Anna Wolfgang will also be running the midfield this year with a concentration on defense. “Many of our players are turning into midfielders, making them versatile on the field,” Schwartz said. “Our number of scoring threats has increased immensely; we are very excited to see what happens.” Sophomores Millie McKeachie and Brandon Jacob will also be scoring threats for the ‘Cats. McKeachie is much stronger and more confident than a season ago, while Jacob’s speed and ability will help her get free from any defender. Sophomores Tess Leppert, Heather Green, Molly Pickall, and Catherine Chapin will be looking for more time on the defensive end. “We have seven freshmen on the team who add a creative dimension to the game that helps us become more of an offensive threat,” Schwartz boasted. Eloise Grose will be a large contributor on the attacking end, while Melissa Gilbert will be running the midfield. High school All-Americans Kiften Stephens and Abby Mead will be putting their time in on the offensive end of the field, while Erin Morris and Katherine Swain will be found on defense along with freshman goalie Leslie Smith. The Davidson Wildcats may look a little young with only four seniors and two juniors, but they know what they want and have been working hard to achieve their goals. The 2003 season opener was canceled on Monday due to weather. On Sunday, the Wildcats will travel to Chapel Hill to face North Carolina. The Wildcats then play four games on the turf field against St. Bonaventure, conference foe Penn State, Columbia, and George Washington.