By STEVE KALISKI Staff Writer

“The Last Samurai” features an unbelievable last stand. Heroic and defiant, the final battle of Tom Cruise’s latest film blasts this outstanding warrior epic into the highest realm of the most stirring lost causes. As flawless in its depiction of noble defeat as director Edward Zwick’s “Glory,” “Samurai” doesn’t go down without an awesome fight. Completely involving from the first frame until the last, “Samurai” proves that historical adventures do not need to be stiff (“Master and Commander”) to be dignified. “Samurai” is both escapist and important at the same time, and it never forgets that its most important task is to tell a story.

The movie follows the final gasps of Japan’s samurai order as seen through a Western perspective. Just like Kevin Costner in “Dances with Wolves,” Cruise plays a Civil War hero who discovers honor amidst the comforts of a dying culture. The year is 1876, and Japan has embarked on a nationwide attempt to modernize its military. The Japanese government appeals to the state-of-the-art expertise of the United States, hiring such officers as Nathan Algren (Cruise) and Col. Benjamin Bagly (Tony Goldwyn) to whip its agrarian foot soldiers into shape. Japan’s immediate goal is to completely eradicate from the country its samurai warriors, who still believe they have exclusive rights to protect the nation. For Japan to succeed in a complete restructuring of its defenses, the stubborn samurais must admit to their obsolescence.

Ken Watanabe and Tom Cruise are the last of the samurai. Algren arrives in Japan tortured by the cruelty he facilitated among Native Americans during the Civil War. When he is captured and taken prisoner by chief samurai Katsumoto (Ken Watanabe) during a botched engagement, he slowly awakens to the honor of his persecuted, misunderstood captors. Even though Algren and Katsumoto begin on opposite sides of the battlefield, they evolve into inseparable friends who eventually lead their small samurai force against the Japanese army together.

While the perfectly orchestrated battles lend the movie most of its firepower, it is Algren’s fascinating immersion into the samurais’ society that invites constant, well-deserved comparison to “Dances with Wolves,” one of the best epics of this kind. The similarities between these two sister films never end: embittered American Civil War hero rejects the luxuries of his own world by assimilating into a completely foreign one; hero

---

VAIL COMMONS STUDY HALL

Vail Commons will be open for studying for final exams!!

Thursday, December 11
Friday, December 12
Sunday, December 14
8:00 pm — 1:00 am

Remember — Vail Commons offers Wireless Internet Access
One meal plan swipe required or $3.50 at the door
Beverages available
Enter Vail from the lower patio doors, upstairs doors will be locked

---

Open @ 11 a.m. 7 days/wk, - Rain or Shine - Serving Full Menu All Day!

Lake Norman

SUNDRIES: RESTAURANT: BAR

Voted “Best Waterfront Restaurant on Lake Norman”

Harborside

Every Monday
1/2 Price Appetizers (dine-in only)

Every Tuesday
1/2 Price Wings
Buffalo, Barbalo, Barbeque (dine-in only)

Every Wednesday
Burger Madness
All Burgers: $4.95 (dine-in only)

KARAOKE NIGHT EVERY THURSDAY
10 UNTIL CLOSING

18665 Harborside Dr. - (704) 896-9013
Go W. on C LINO Exit 28 to Catawba to Harborside Dr. Follow to endfalls in love with a beautiful widow (here played by Koyuki) who lost her husband in battle. Zwick doesn’t overdo the romance angle, understanding that finding a mate is probably the least of Algren’s concerns. Algren wants to master the art of the samurai and to avenge himself for his past misdeeds. Seeing the always-intense Cruise persevere in this goal is a joy for the audience. Watanabe, an established actor in Japan, vividly carries every scene in which Cruise needs a breather, blending a playful sense of humor with the horrified guilt of a man who must bear witness to the extinction of his kind. The film thoroughly accomplishes the risky job of combining myth with history. It never jumps too far out of a believable historical context, but it carefully avoids feeling like an adaptation of a high school textbook. Civil War buffs should chuckle over a running joke about Custer and the disadvantages of facing 2,000 troops with a measly 200. As for the rest of us, well, don’t be surprised if, within minutes of leaving the theater, you find yourself twirling a long pointy object with the vicarious aplomb of the Internet’s “Star Wars Kid.” "The Last Samurai" is the first movie in a long time that will have you dancing idiotically around the room, tackling your startled friends with the verve of a warrior, and dreaming of the supreme coolness of a different world.

The Last Samurai
Directed by: Edward Zwick
Written by: John Logan, Marshall Herskovitz, and Zwick
Starring: Tom Cruise, Ken Watanabe
Running time: 144 minutes

Ho! Ho! Ho! Vulgarity refined
By Derek Lou
Arts & Living Editor

“Elf” was pleasant enough. But for those of us who found its final act annoyingly sentimental, here comes “Bad Santa” Claus, right down Vulgarity Lane. The title character is a full-time alcoholic named Willie (Billy Bob Thornton). Come Christmas-time, he assumes the role of a mall Santa, giving him access to the stores at night. The mastermind behind this annual operation is Marcus (Tony Cox), who plays one of Santa’s elves during the day. He acquires, with the help of his wife Lois (Lauren Tom, voice of Minh from “King of the Hill”), the malls’ blueprints and plans robberies with payoffs big enough to keep them happily unemployed for an entire year.

The film follows the trio to Phoenix, Arizona during one particular season of revels. Complicating their holiday tradition are Willie’s increasing fondness for drink, the mall’s manager (John Ritter, to whom the film is dedicated), and a strange boy (Brett Kelly) who stalks Willie. The script adds to these obstacles a private detective played by Bernie Mac and a Santa fetishist named Sue (Lauren Graham, the older of the “Gilmore Girls”). The movie has a surprising amount of plot, but its main goal is to arrange these characters and their quirks to produce as many laughs as possible. One scene, for example, places Willie, Marcus, and the Kid in a boxing ring. How they get into that situation is irrelevant. What matters, as I have not yet mentioned, is that Marcus is an African American little person and the Kid is portly. Or, in less “correct” terms, Marcus is a black midget and the Kid is fat. Now put these characters in boxing gloves and helmets and watch them fight. Insensitive and offensive? Absolutely. But also very funny.