Bernard sits with foul trouble, but Winters, Ivory, Lusakueno post big nights
By Matt Garfield, Editor

Senior point guard Wayne Bernard is the unquestioned leader of the men’s basketball team. But if Tuesday night’s 84-77 win
at UNC Greensboro is any indication, Bernard isn’t the only player capable of leading the Wildcats (14-7, 8-3). With Bernard
limited to only 14 minutes due to foul trouble, Davidson got big games from a freshman, a junior, and a
senior to earn a season sweep of the Spartans (6-17, 2-9).

Freshman Brendan Winters had by far his best game as a Wildcat, scoring a career-high 31 points and adding 10
rebounds. Junior Terrell Ivory filled in admirably for Bernard, scoring 11 points and running the offense smoothly in 26 minutes
on the floor. And senior Michel Lusakueno delivered what might have been his best game as well, with 16 points
and six rebounds.

The win kept Davidson one game ahead of East Tennessee State in the SoCon North Division. The two teams will
meet on Saturday in Belk Arena.

“I thought our team played extremely courageous in a tough situation with Wayne Bernard only playing 14 minutes,” said head
coach Bob McKillop. “Five different guys made shots during that (crucial) stretch. All five guys answered, stepped up, and made
plays.”

UNCG took its first lead of the game at 66-65 on a Josh Gross three-pointer with 4:20 to play, and
it appeared the Wildcats’ road woes might haunt them again. But instead of a meltdown, the Davidson offense came alive.
Matt McKillop and Winters answered that flourish with consecutive three-pointers to regain an advantage the Wildcats would never relinquish. A
Bernard dunk capped an 8-0 run, and Davidson connected on late free throws to seal the 84-77 victory. The team
connected on 9-of-12 three-point attempts, including a 4-for-4 performance from Winters.

“Wayne got in foul trouble, so I felt I had to be more aggressive,” said Winters.

Saturday
Davidson 99, Appalachian State 86

Just when you thought the men’s basketball team was fading from the SoCon championship picture, the Wildcats delivered a performance
like this one—maybe their best of the season. Several heroes emerged in Saturday’s 99-86 home win over Appalachian State, some
you’d expect and others that might surprise you. They helped Davidson (13-7, 7-3) pull within one game of the first-place
Mountaineers (15-6, 8-2) in the North Division. With six games left, the Wildcats still have a shot at the regular
season title and a No. 1 seed in the SoCon Tournament on March 5-8 in Charleston, S.C.

“If we win this one, we’re running away with a three-game lead,” said Mountaineers coach Houston Fancher. “Now it makes
the race a little bit tighter.”

The victory came five days after a nightmarish 98-82 loss to Wofford in which the Wildcats trailed by double digits
nearly the entire 40 minutes and surrendered their highest point total of the season—higher than even the Duke and Arizona
games.

*Cats make it two straight with UNCG win*

On this afternoon, the Wildcats went on the offensive—pulling ahead early and holding off a late Appalachian rally.

“The Wofford game really set the table for this game because of the way Wofford attacks,” said Davidson coach Bob
McKillop. “It was a rehearsal for us. We did get a wake-up call. For us to come back after getting
hammered pretty good was a great statement about our resiliency.”

Added senior Wayne Bernard: “In the Wofford game, we didn’t come out to play. It was a rude awakening for
us. We had a lot of fire coming into this game.”

Bernard, whose 25 points, six assists, and three steals could go a long way toward earning him first-team all-conference honors,
led the early attack with an array of slashes to the basket for which Appalachian seemed to have no answer.

“He’s always given us trouble,” said Fancher. “I’m coming to his graduation to make sure he gets his degree and
gets out of here, cause I don’t want to face him anymore.”

Then there’s freshman Brendan Winters, who scored several of his 18 points during a critical second-half stretch that preserved Davidson’s
double-digit lead. Winters showed no signs of fatigue in 38 minutes on the floor, the latest indication that the 6-4
swingman could earn freshman of the year honors.

Throw in double-doubles from Conor Grace (12 points, 11 rebounds) and Michel Lusakueno (10 points, 11 rebounds) and a handful
of key shots from Ian Johnson, Matt McKillop, and Terrell Ivory, and you get a win.That could prove even sweeter
by March. “(McKillop’s) players are interchangeable. He just plugs them in like Christmas lights and they keep on shining,” said
Fancher. “Their attitude is what pushed them ahead in the first half. At the 10-minute mark, we got clicked in
a little bit. We had some momentum going our way. But it’s too deep a hole against such a well-coached
team.”

East Tenn. St. vs. Davidson
7 p.m. Belk Arena

The Wildcats will attempt to beat the Bucs (12-9, 6-4) for the second time this season and take a commanding
two-game lead in the North Division. Davidson beat ETSU 80-71 in Johnson City on Jan. 27. Matt McKillop scored 23
points, while Wayne Bernard added 19.

SCOUTING THE BUCS: East Tennessee State was picked to win the North Division in many preseason polls, but the Bucs
have underachieved for most of the year. Guard Tiras Wade led the team with 16 points per game before taking
an indefinite leave of absence on Feb. 1 for unspecified reasons. He is not expected to play Saturday. However, the
Bucs still have several dangerous players. Junior Zakee Wadood, a SoCon player of the year candidate, shoulders the scoring load
in Wade’s absence. He averages 17 ppg in conference contests. Ryan Lawson and Jerald Fields are also key contributors.

CONFERENCE PICTURE: A win Saturday would put the Wildcats in good position to finish in at least second place in
the North Division—and earn the critical first-round tournament bye that comes with it.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19

Brendan Winters looks to pass against UNC.

So good, so soon: Freshman Winters emerging as a star
By Mike Giglio
Sports Editor

“Surprising,” says freshman Brendan Winters when asked what it has been like to have such a big impact on the
team in only his first year. “It’s been surprising. I came here expecting to play, but I never thought I’d
end up playing such a big role so soon.”

Pleasant surprise accurately describes Winters’ play this year. The 6'5", 190-pound small forward has averaged 10.4 points per game while
totaling the second most assists and third most rebounds on the team. He completes a trio of freshmen, which includes
Ian Johnson and Matt McKillop, that has gone above and beyond expectations this season.

“We all came in knowing we would play, but we had no idea how much. We definitely didn’t expect to
have two guys (Winters and McKillop) starting and one guy (Johnson) as the sixth man, each playing 25 minutes per
game,” Winters says.

Injuries have been a major factor in this abundance of playing time, and Winters in particular has stepped up and
filled the shoes of injured upperclassmen admirably. He was forced into the starting lineup early in the season when Jouni
Eho ’04 went down with an injury on Nov. 30, and he seized the opportunity and never looked back, continuing
to start after Eho’s return. His best play of the season, however, has come after senior Peter Anderer’s injury in
early January.

“I realized that I had to take a more active role once Peter went down and we were playing without
him and Jouni,” Winters says. “I knew that I would have to score a lot more, so I became more
aggressive. After that everything just fell into place.”

Throughout the season, Winters points out, the upperclassmen have done a lot to help him and his fellow freshmen make
the transition to the college courts and campus. “Peter and Wayne (Bernard ’03) have helped a lot with the adjustment,
both on and off the court,” Winters says. “They help with the little stuff on the court and hanging out
and having fun off it.”

Winters may have an added edge in getting used to the life continued on page 9

The Davidsonian Player of the Week
Lindsay Powel ‘06
Women’s Tennis
Hometown: Shaker Heights, Ohio
Major: Undecided

Competing in her first collegiate match, Powel did not lose a single game, cruising to two 6-0, 6-0 singles wins
and an 8-0 doubles victory with partner Gayle Jones.

THE WEEK AHEAD
Men's Tennis vs. Gardner-Webb
Women's Tennis vs. Liberty
Baseball vs. Georgetown
Men's Tennis vs. Liberty
Wrestling at Campbell
Women’s Basketball vs. Wofford
Men's Basketball vs. East Tennessee State
Baseball vs. Georgetown
Wrestling vs. VMI
Baseball vs. Georgetown
Women's Tennis vs. High Point
Lacrosse vs. Denver
Women’s Basketball at Chattanooga

Thursday
2:00 p.m.
10:00 a.m.
1:00 p.m.
1:00 p.m.
2:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m.
7:00 p.m.
1:00 p.m.
2:00 p.m.
2:30 p.m.
2:30 p.m.
3:00 p.m.
7:00 p.m.
