2 THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2003

‘Abraham’ book group will provide multi-faith discussion

By AMANDA STEPHENS
Staff Writer

Davidson students of differing religions will come together in February to discuss their beliefs and ideas in the first of a series of four multi-faith book discussions. Organized by Adam Martin ’06, the first discussion will explore Bruce Feiler’s book “Abraham: A Journey into the Heart of Three Faiths” from three religious perspectives: Christianity, Judaism, and Islam. Discussions will be open to the student body and will be led by six students, two representing each of the three faiths. A religious leader from each of the three faiths will be present to encourage discussion and answer faith-related questions. Davidson’s Chaplain Rob Spach will represent the Christian faith, while an Imam from the Mosque in Charlotte and a Rabbi from a nearby temple will represent the Islamic and Jewish perspectives.

With the assistance of the religious and student leaders, Martin would like to create an open forum in which students can freely share their individual beliefs and question students of different faiths. The book “Abraham” was chosen for discussion because the story of Abraham is common to Christians, Jews, and Muslims. While the conversation will center on the selected reading, Martin hopes to use Feiler’s book as a launching pad for interfaith dialogue. In his book, Feiler shows how all three traditions are interconnected, and how each religion claims Abraham as their own. He also explores how each belief has contributed to the others’ formation, and the extent to which Christianity, Judaism, and Islam all impact each other. The discussion group will compare and contrast these religions and discover the many similarities that exist amongst the three traditions. Discussions will also incorporate readings from the Bible, Koran, and Jewish literature. In addition to learning about other faiths, the discussion group will seek to clear misconceptions about other religions and will look at different models of reconciliation. While the discussion group has no specific agenda, Martin hopes that it will help students to “better understand our own faiths and each other’s faiths.”

Spach shares Martin’s enthusiasm for the discussion group. He said the forum will provide an opportunity for the gathering of the three main traditions, in which students will be able to learn more about their own faith while gaining exposure to other beliefs. Spach also believes that discussing religion amongst Davidson students humanizes some of the more abstract religious ideals. The forum will not only expose students to new religious ideas but will enable them to converse with fellow students of different religious convictions. He sees the discussions as a fulfillment of the college’s mission statement, which advocates a commitment to understanding other faiths and promoting religious tolerance. Discussions will “create a community where there is a sense of understanding and respect,” Spach said.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

11/20 Front of Akers
Damage to Property
Unknown group of students were seen pushing over a lamp post in front of Akers Dorm. Incident is still under investigation. Total damage is estimated at $1,200.

11/21 Knox Bike Rack
Unknown person(s) removed an unlocked silver and white Trek 7100 bicycle from the bike rack in front of Knox without a trace. Bicycle is valued at $250.

11/22 Griffith St.
Fraudulent Driver’s License
Known student was stopped on a routine traffic stop in the Town of Davidson. During the stop, the officer discovered that the driver’s license that the student was using was a fraud, making the student of legal drinking age. The student then provided information that linked the fraudulent driver’s license to an on-campus manufacturer. Investigation pending.

12/1 Baker Sports
Larceny of Currency
Unknown person(s) willfully removed money from student’s wallet while using the sports facilities.

12/6 Tomlinson
Aid to the ill
Known student was transported to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center with injuries due to intoxication.

12/6 Thompson St.
Assist Town Police
Campus Police were called to assist Davidson Town Police in regards to a party on Thompson St. that involved several Davidson students. One of the students at the party fled when confronted by police. The student was caught, identified, and charged with possession of alcohol under the age of 21, and obstructing and delaying a police officer.

Giving in the holiday spirit
Alternative Gift Fair and a variety of festive activities add to the tradition of Christmas at Davidson

By BLEVINS SHELNUTT
Staff Writer

Several college organizations offered a variety of holiday events as perfect study break opportunities and as socially-aware activities. The first holiday event of the past weekend was the 11th annual Alternative Gift Fair in the Union Atrium on Sunday afternoon. The fair was organized by the Chaplain’s Office and Sanctuary, an on-campus Christian group with an emphasis on service and outreach. The fair allowed visitors to purchase charitable gifts for friends or family members from over 37 different organizations in lieu of traditional Christmas gifts. Visitors received a card and sheet of paper describing the program upon payment of their gift. Charitable opportunities included financing a year of water service for a LatinAmerican family, supporting an orphan from Uganda for a month or funding one eye cataract surgery for a poor citizen of Honduras. “Just think,” said Chaplain Rob Spach, “for what it would cost to give your dad a tie, you could help to give someone their sight back.” The fair generally raises between $4,000 and $7,000 and has raised approximately $75,000 for various charities since its institution at Davidson in 1993. Spach commented, “This program is geared towards empowerment. Those gifts are investments in people’s lives that will make a long-term difference. The impact for some of these gifts is incredible.”

Another Sunday afternoon event was the Union Christmas Party held in the 900 Room. Students, faculty, staff, community members, and children enjoyed refreshments, a viewing of The Muppets’ Christmas Carol, and the opportunity to meet and take pictures with Santa. A more formal holiday tradition at Davidson, Christmas Vespers, was held Sunday evening at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The program consisted of anthems performed by both the Davidson College Concert Choir and the Chamber Singers as well as instrumental pieces played by the Davidson College Flute Ensemble and Davidson College Brass Ensemble. Campus religious leaders and administrators also read sections of the Biblical nativity story throughout the evening. Lectors included Chaplain Rob Spach, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid Nancy Cable, Dean of Students Tom Shandley, and President Bobby Vagt.

Perhaps the most beloved holiday event at Davidson was held Monday evening — the Annual Campus Wide Holiday Celebration and lighting of Chambers sponsored by the Union Board, Davidson Outdoors, Physical Plant, Concert Choir, Chaplain’s Office, and President’s Office. Cookies and hot chocolate were served as students sang popular Christmas carols led by the Concert Choir. Students also received a surprise when Santa and Mrs. Claus zip-lined down from the roof of Chambers. “I love the lighting of Chambers because it makes the entire student body feel like one big family,” said Emily Moore ’06.

Union Board changes a no-go
By JOHN HELMS
Staff Writer

A vote to amend SGA bylaws, thereby consolidating the Union Board’s two vice president positions into one job, has been left in limbo. The Union Board has wanted to consolidate the two vice presidents’ roles for some time, yet in their latest attempt, they were unable to acquire enough votes from the student body to pass the referendum—at least by first count (see SGA column for an update on the bylaws vote, page 3). The proposed amendment would merge the two vice president positions into one, reflecting the structure of the Alvarez Student Union. With the new Union, rooms like the 900 Room serve multiple purposes, thus negating the need for two vice presidents to manage the activities held there.

Grey Wicker ’04, Publicity Chair of the Union Board, explained that the structure of the Union Board should reflect the layout of the Union. “When they were in the old union there was a dichotomy of roles. There was a separation in the rooms and a separation in the purposes of the committees. It makes more sense to separate the committees [in the old union],” he said. The primary goal of the Union Board in this measure seemed to be efficiency, said Vice President Amy Edwards ’04. “[It’s] not necessary, it’s more like [it’s] unnecessary to have two vice presidents. The Union Board can run just as efficiently with one. There was a clear Union, but in the new Union a lot of the divisions between the vice presidents came together.”

An explanation for the inability to pass the referendum could lie in the confusion among the student body concerning the issue. Erin Ray ’07 said the referendum lacked an explanation, making it difficult to make any decision. “I thought that I had enough information to vote on the issue,” she said, “but I should have had more.” Other students who supported the Union Board’s decision did not express specific reasons for their support. Joel Hewett ’07 said, “I believe that the Union Board knows best when it comes to governing their own organization. They cool like that.”

The students voted online using a format similar to the one used in the SGA elections earlier this semester. Some students that were interviewed for this article were not even aware that an email had been sent about the vote. Despite the setbacks caused by the results of the referendum, the Union Board is beginning to make preparations for next semester. A new proposal in the works is a series of successive events at the Lake Campus to promote the use of Davidson’s other facilities. The Union Board is also planning Spring Frolics, a spring event in the Union for people who are not involved in Patterson Court. The Union Board is making preparations to survey the students on the week of exams for their opinions on possible speakers or bands for next semester. The board plans to make a final decision before school lets out for winter break.