The Stripes rock out on ‘Elephant,’ their fourth album.

By Andy Heston

Staff Writer

I remember when the White Stripes’ last album “White Blood Cells” came out. It was hailed as the rebirth of
rock, record of the year, Delta blues meets Detroit garage with inimitable results by a number of reputable critical sources.
And you know, I never really got it. There are songs on “White Blood Cells” I absolutely love, but there’s
so much filler (Exhibit A: “The Union Forever,” which no matter how many reports to the contrary will always be
crap to me) that I couldn’t jump right onto the bandwagon. Saviors of rock? Hardly. They managed some cool songs,
but if they couldn’t maintain the pace for a single album, their follow-up chances didn’t look so hot.

And now, with the release of their fourth full-length, the Stripes seemed poised on the brink of a belated sophomore
slump (well, in their case, a fourth-album slump). How could they equal “White Blood Cells,” if only in national recognition?
All my signs pointed to mediocrity, a confirmation of all those who (like me) thought of “White Blood Cells” as
a fluke commercial success without a whole lot of artistic value that would eventually prove to be nothing more than
an average album from an average band. The White Stripes would fade into obscurity with a string of mediocrity in
their wake.

Well, I was wrong. These White Stripes, they’re the real deal. I say with conviction that their latest album, “Elephant,”
is a better album than “White Blood Cells,” and reluctantly admit that the Stripes might live up to all the
hype after all.

The White Stripes’ new album: ‘All I know is that it’s great’

The influences are pretty much the same as on “White Blood Cells:” gutbucket blues, honky tonk country and the Stooges,
with cryptic lyrics, cheap guitars and hamfisted drumming courtesy of Meg White. Yet it’s not the instrumentation that makes this
such a cool album; it’s Jack White’s songwriting. White’s somehow managed to eke from his limited palette of minimalist guitar-and-drums
an impressive array of sounds, all in the service of some great songs. “Seven Nation Army,” “There’s No Home For
You Here,” and the brilliantly titled “Girl, You Have No Faith in Medicine,” are all testament to White’s songwriting prowess.
The guitars roar with a ferocity gleaned from scratchy Chess blues recordings and the MC5, the drums hammer a combination
of a basic rock backbeat and a military march, and the lyrics are mysterious but nonetheless evocative.

“Evocative” may actually be the buzzword for this album. The songs hearken to a different place and time. I’m not
sure when or where, but it’s mythic: the crossroads where Robert Johnson sold his soul, or that midnight train in
“I’m So Lonesome I Could Cry.”

Try listening to “In the Cold Cold Night” (Meg’s first lead vocal!): it sways, it sashays across the room, while
Meg’s innocent Moe Tucker-esque vocals sing Jack’s words; “I see you walking by my front door / I hear the
creaking of the kitchen floor / I don’t care what other people say / I’m going to love you anyway
/ Come to me again in the cold, cold night.” On paper it’s nothing spectacular. On record, it’s eerily cool.
I’m still not quite sure what to make of “Elephant.” All I know is that it’s great.

RESTAURANTE MEXICANO
AUTHENTIC MEXICAN CUISINE

TOURNAMENT

This week’s question:

Prince or Bowie?

“Bowie, because he gave transvestism a beautiful name.”
Dorothy Meiburg ’03

“Although they both had identity crises, I have to go with Bowie because he shagged Mick Jagger.”
Colby Broadwater ’04

“The correct answer is Prince. All his staff must address him as, 'Sir.' Bowie doesn’t have that power. Also, 'Little
Red Corvette’ and 'Nothing Compares 2 U' are two of my favorite songs.”
Derek Loh ’04

“Bowie, because Prince is so dated and such a relic of the ‘80s. He doesn’t seem related to today’s pop
music.”
Mabe Garcia ’05

Prizes include:
* Gift Certificate to Dick’s Sporting Goods
* New Spaulding Infusion Basketball
* FREE ticket to next season’s Davidson vs North Carolina

For more information, or to register, go to http://www.davidson.edu/administrative/athletics and click on the Tournament logo link.

$35 Registration for outside teams
Only $30 for Davidson teams.

Call x2767, or stop by the Promotions office in Baker. Cat-Cards are accepted.
