A documentary entitled “Transparency” will be shown in the Sprinkle Room at 7 p.m. on Thursday. "Transparency" unveils the personal experience of three Muslim women and the issue of Hijab, women’s dress code in Islam.

Mostly Mozart
The Charlotte Symphony Orchestra will present a Valentine’s Day concert entitled “Mostly Mozart,” Friday at 8 p.m. in the Duke Family Performance Hall. Tickets are $10 for adults and $5 for students. For reservations and information call (704) 894-2135.

Chemistry Colloquium
Dr. Kenneth Davenport of Bayer Crop Science in Research Triangle Park, NC will lecture at 2:30 p.m. on Monday in Martin G-10. Davenport will present a lecture titled, “Catalytic Approaches to the Synthesis of Fine Chemicals and Bulk Active Pharmaceuticals.” Please call (704) 894-2307 for information.

Campus Police Blotter
2/8 Patterson Ct. Damage to Property
Identified student fell through the roof of a fraternity during a party. Both students have been cited and will pay for the damage.

2/8 Patterson Ct. Underage Possession Alcohol Violation

2/9 Patterson Ct. Alcohol Violation Underage Possession

2/9 Patterson Ct. Underage Possession Alcohol Violation

WDAV’s new digs
Photo courtesy WDAV
Program Director Frank Dominguez and assistant Jobie Sprinkle work in WDAV’s new broadcast studio on Main Street across from campus. The station will soon celebrate its $2 million home with a live concert featuring pianist Jon Nakamatsu and Alan Black, principal cellist for the Charlotte Symphony. It will air at 7 p.m. on Feb. 27. On March 2, the station will hold an open house from 2 to 5 p.m. The public is invited.

Clarification
A computer error caused the wrong image to run in place of SGA presidential candidate Charles Washington's photo last week. The Davidsonian regrets the error.

Cast of 60 will perform in ‘Monologues’ this weekend
Proceeds will go to rape crisis center in Charlotte
KATE VOGEL Special Contributor

Beginning Saturday, “The Vagina Monologues” return to Davidson for the third year. This year’s cast features more than 60 faculty, staff, and students performing Eve Ensler’s popular play in the Duke Family Performance Hall.

“The Vagina Monologues” take an unmentionable subject and make it into something powerful and real. Like any good play, “The Vagina Monologues” takes you through a wide variety of emotions for the wide variety of experiences women have had. The entire piece is infused with a positive energy and plenty of humor.

Meg Kimmel, a performer and Director of College Communications, said, “Because it is raucous and unexpected, personal, intimate, honest, hilarious, and particularly because it represented a new voice in theater, it has been something of a phenomenon.”

Clare Hahneman ’05, one of this year’s performers, said the “Vagina Monologues speaks to women as a gender that has been suppressed in exploring themselves and their limitless possibilities, but to me the message of to be self-aware, to be honest with yourself and your partner, and to possess your sexuality in whatever way you desire, is a universal message.”

Contrary to one popular opinion, “The Vagina Monologues” are not male-bashing, “feminazi” pieces. Kimmel said, “Certainly the Davidson men who were in the audience in 2000 seemed to love it. [They were] hooting and hollering and falling out of their chairs. Maybe it’s really about growing up as humans to allow both sexes a kind of freedom that culturally and socially has been hard if not impossible to come by.”

By using the word vagina, performers and audiences alike can confront the taboo of sexuality in our society.and openly address the horrible issues of violence against women. Violence against women—our friends, moms, sisters, aunts, girlfriends, and classmates—is everyone’s issue. “The Vagina Monologues” are part of a global movement called V-Day, which is dedicated to stopping violence against women and girls. Ensler teamed up with V-Day and began college, national, and worldwide vagina monologues campaigns because she was moved by the personal testimony of women, related to her after her performances. Stunned by the widespread extent of violence against women, Ensler committed the performances of the “Monologues” to raise money for organizations dedicated to ending that violence. Violence against women is a serious and pervasive problem. According to the UN Populations Survey from May 2000, one in every three women will experience violence at some point in her lifetime, most likely by an intimate partner. In the last five years, the V-Day movement, through performances of “The Vagina Monologues,” has raised over $14 million dollars for local and international groups working to end violence against women and girls. All money from the performances at Davidson will go to the United Family Services Victim Assistance Rape Crisis Center in Charlotte. UFS is a multi-service education and counseling center in Charlotte, NC for individuals, children, and families. They offer a Rape Crisis Center, Child Abuse Prevention, and the Shelter for Battered Women and Victim Assistance. This year’s performance also includes two V-World pieces, which focus on a vision of a world without violence against women. Each cast will write their own monologue, and a group of male participants will write a monologue and perform each night. Performances will be held Saturday, Sunday, and Monday at 8 p.m. in Duke Family Performance Hall. Tickets are $8 and $12 for students, faculty, and staff, and are on sale now at the Union Ticket Office.

Not sure how much dough is on your CatCard? Check the Web. New service should be up and running this week.

Mallory MacDonald
Staff Writer

Ever consider how much money you spend on your CatCard? Well, now students can check their CatCard status by simply clicking a button. Davidson has created a web page that allows students to log on using their social security number, name, and network password. The page should be up and running late this week. The new program allows students to inspect their balance and bonus bucks, as well as the time, date, and location of every transaction. When students use their CatCards at the bookstore, for instance, the receipt only shows the declining balance. Now students can monitor their spending as well as check for possible mistakes, according to Richard Terry, Director of Auxiliary Services. As with so many of Davidson’s policies, there is a confidentiality clause that guarantees a student’s privacy to his or her own page. Parents cannot access this page unless given the necessary information from their son or daughter. If further questions of security arise, a pin number can be added to the criteria to open the page. To access the page one simply has to go to the Davidson home page, click on Administration, then Auxiliary Services, and finally CatCard Services. There, the page has a link to the individual pages. In the future, Davidson hopes to allow students to make deposits through this site, enabling students to add money whenever they want and from the privacy of their own room. Log in now and find out just how much “monopoly money” you have.