Surveying the wide world of sports, the good and the bad

Before I begin, let me remove my foot from my mouth. On Friday, just four days after being cleared of
any wrongdoing by the Ohio High School Athletic Association for accepting a $50,000 car from his mother, LeBron James was
declared ineligible to compete as an amateur, effectively ending his high school basketball career. This time, James received two vintage
jerseys, valued at roughly $850, for free from an Akron area clothing store and thereby violated an OHSAA bylaw that
states, “[no athlete may] capitalize on athletic fame by receiving money or gifts of monetary value.” I don’t blame James
for taking the merchandise; after all, he did pose for photos that are now displayed in the store and the
jerseys could be considered payment for his service. As Deion Sanders recently said, “If we really did our homework, I
don’t think we would have anyone eligible.” Surprisingly, Prime Time makes a good point. Of course, at some point James,
who boasts a 3.5 GPA at St. Vincent-St. Mary’s, needs to use just a little common sense. He is filmed
and followed more than most “Real World” participants and, given his celebrity status and impending wealth, he must understand that
people are trying to knock him down from the pedestal America has built for him. For his part, James said,
“When I went in (the store), you know, I was just going in there as being, you know, another player,
and they was trying to reward me for my good grades.”

As you may remember, two weeks ago this column reprimanded our nation’s sports media for obsessing over an 18-year-old’s car.
I supported James for driving the Hummer and encouraged him to enjoy his final months in high school. After the
whole jersey incident, though, I lost a lot of respect for the kid. When he accepted the free gifts, James
put himself over his team and let down some of his best friends. All for what, a Wes Unseld jersey?
Come on, LeBron; your team has been ranked number one in America by USA Today for several weeks now and
was pretty much a shoe-in for the state championship. Not all is lost for James, though, as he could play
professionally in Europe until the upcoming NBA draft in July. Unfortunately, his new threads won’t help him too much with
the European ladies. How many folks in Germany or France have ever heard of Wes Unseld?

Yale car accident hits home

On a more (very) serious note, by now most of you must have heard about the four Yale students who
died in a car accident about two weeks ago. One of the victims, Nick Grass, played on my team at
a baseball showcase we both attended after our junior year in high school. While we really haven’t talked since, Nick
and I hung out a lot over those three or four days and he drove me to most of our
games. Nick graduated from Holyoke (Ma.) High School in 2001 with honors, and was selected All-Western Massachusetts in football and
was named Most Outstanding Player in Western Massachusetts baseball. “He was hysterical,” Yale baseball captain Steven Duke said. “He was
the kid you wanted to have in your group. He was funny, outgoing and caring. He wouldn’t be mean to
anybody. He was just a great-hearted kid.” I write about this for no other reason than to state the obvious:
bad things can happen to good kids. No matter how many precautions we may take (designated drivers, obeying the speed
limit, etc.) there is absolutely no way to avoid some circumstances. The accident happened around 5 a.m. on Jan. 22
on Interstate 95, as nine fraternity brothers were returning to campus in the same SUV after a night in New
York City. The driver of the vehicle was not drunk, and preliminary findings confirmed that lights on the icy highway
were out and that the car was “not grossly exceeding the speed limit.” The tragedy, needless to say, devastated the
Yale campus, and several athletic events were postponed. Along with Nick, Yale pitcher Kyle Burnat also died in the crash.
“I’ve got a big hole in my roster, I’ve got an even bigger hole in my pitching staff, but the
largest hole of all resides right here in my heart,” said Yale baseball coach John Stuper, “and I wish somebody
could tell me what to do about that.” The Yale baseball team visits Davidson on Mar. 19 for a 3
p.m. game at Wildcat Park.

X-Games aren’t so bad

Now, for the good stuff. While many of you were out frolicking in the Court on Saturday night, I stayed
in and watched the X-Games. You really ought to watch them sometime. With events like Skiing SuperPipe and Moto X
Big Air, how can anyone resist? The competitors are ridiculous athletes and the atmosphere is a cross between a frat
party and a Green Day concert. Of the 271 X-Gamers, 30 are Olympians and, of those, 13 have won a
medal. Boys and girls who can’t even legally drive are busting out 1080s and “Alley-oop McTwists” (hard to explain) in
the halfpipe. Indeed, Shaun White (aka “Slope Ninja”), the 16-year-old phenom with Carrot Top-esque hair, took home gold in men’s
SuperPipe, and he was up against the bronze, silver, and gold medalists from the Salt Lake City Olympics. Along with
an entirely unique form ofathleticism, the X-Games also require an entirely different vocabulary. To be sure, the words “gnarly” and
“stoked” have been used so much in Aspen this week you would have thought it was 1986 and the cult-classic
“Rad” just debuted in theatres. You see, LeBron James isn’t the only teenage athlete making headlines these days. Sure, he
can dunk, but let’s slap some skis on the kid and see what he can do. Snow sports don’t get
the kind of recognition they deserve, and America has been hooked on mainstream games like football and basketball for way
too long. It’s time for the X-Gamers out there to get their 15 minutes of fame, and show us what
it’s like to be a totally wicked sick athlete. An interesting mixture of sports, I know; but I thought I’d
shake things up a bit. Remember, variety is the spice of life. Have a good week.

Men set school record in distance medley relay; women improve
By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

Entering UNC-Chapel Hill’s brand new indoor track facility brings only one thing to mind: “Geez, there’s more baby-blue in here
than outside in the sky.” The color schemes weren’t much of a problem for the Wildcats, though, as the men’s
team set a school indoor record in the Distance Medley Relay with a team consisting of Nick Lehman ’05 in
the 1200m, Paul Wyatt ’05 in the 400m, Greg Scott ’04 in the 800m, and Ben Gaspar ’04 in the
1600m. Scott also ran the seventh fastest mile in Davidson indoor history with a 4:23.64 and fifth place finish. Likewise,
Jonathon Baker ’06 joined the top-ten indoor 3k-performer list for his 8:57.44, 9th place finish.

“It was a fun race and a nice facility; I really enjoyed it. I just kept focusing on the guys
ahead of me and ran my own race,” commented Baker. But the story of the day was the DMR. The
team finished third with a time of 10:37.24, over seven seconds faster than the previous record. “Today, it was really
the sum of the parts that helped us crush the school record. It was a true team effort,” explained Gaspar,
who ran his first race following a winter surgery. Gaspar also competed in the mile earlier in the day, earning
himself a tenth place finish with his time of 4:31.01. Added Lehman, “I’m excited about the solid race and the
school record, but I’m even more pumped about what’s to come and the season ahead of us.”

Carolina Fast Times
Junior Adam Sperling puts the heat on an opponent.

Coach Gary Andrew agreed, “Overall, I was very happy with the guys’ efforts today. We made a lot of progress
from the last meet. That was one of our goals today, but we still have a lot of work to
do.” The Davidson team swept the top two spots in the 5k, being the only two runners competing. Austin Mercadante
’06 ran his winning time of 16:24.5 basically by himself, with Joe Crowe ’05 following in 17:23.99. Joining Baker in
the 3k was the future 10k duo of Chris Schmader ’05 and Brad Becken ’03. They finished in 9:10.79 and
9:15.60, respectively.

The women’s team performed on low resources but came out with some hard-fought improvements. Amanda Yeck ’05 quadrupled in preparation
for the pentathlon, competing in the high jump, 60m dash, open 200, and the 400m leg of the DMR. Her
60m time of 8.64 was a personal record. The 4x4 also competed well, finishing eighth with a time of 4:24.63.
The team consisted of Jana Lee ’03, Clarissa Carr ’04, Kate Wilson ’04, and Hilary Leister ’06. Their overall time
was a 13-second improvement over last week’s. Carr also competed in the open quarter and 200m dash with times of
66.82 and 29.69, respectively, as many athletes had to double and triple due to low numbers from sickness and injury.

“It was another learning experience for the women. We got out there and discovered a little bit more about paces
and challenges. It was our first time on this type of track, but we gained a lot of confidence today,”
said assistant coach Pete Loeb, who was filling in for head coach Jen Straub. Both track teams return to competition
this upcoming Saturday at the Carolina Heels Challenge at UNC.

Wrestlers fall to Mocs, Devils
By BOSSY KENNER & BRENT McCORMICK
Staff Writers

The wrestling team took on Chattanooga and Duke this weekend at Belk Arena. Despite an impressive showing by heavyweight John
Pollak ’06, who notched two victories by decision, Davidson was unable to overcome the deficit created by three forfeits versus
Chattanooga and four against the Blue Devils. Despite the disappointing losses, however, two grapplers came away with impressive performances. Matt
Leonard ’06, who now leads the team with seventeen wins, earned a decision against B.J. Malone of UT-C. The other
win went to Henry Blue ’06, who pinned Andy Soliman of Duke.

The strong performance by freshmen has been a recurring trend throughout the season. Nine of the 11 grapplers on the
squad are first-years, and they seem to be “gelling as a team,” says 125-pounder Derek Stroke ’06. Teammate and fellow
frosh Patrick Coman agrees. “The freshmen class is really starting to turn the corner in making the transition from high
school to college wrestling,” he said. “We show a lot of promise for the future.” The squad next wrestles Duquesne,
at home, on Friday night.
