THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2003

Patriot Act, from page 1

and Bill of Rights,” Campbell said. “The Patriot Act was a knee-jerk response to a terrible event. It was 300
pages long and was passed in two weeks. Most lawmakers did not even read it.”

Bringing the issue to the town council was Campbell’s next step. “The Patriot Act contradicts our basic rights,” he said.
“The town needed to take a stand on it.” The meeting proved fruitful. A subcommittee was formed to write a
resolution stating the town’s concerns about the Act. Students and faculty from the College were invited to join the committee.
Campbell said he “felt very positive” about the meeting and is optimistic about the subcommittee. He hopes any future resolution
will firmly “support the Constitution and Bill of Rights and add our town to the number of communities who also
do not support the Patriot Act.”

Town Commissioner Bruce McMillen agrees. “I think we are predisposed to make a statement about the necessity of protecting civil
liberties and the need to ensure that the fear of terrorism is not used as an excuse for limiting them.”

‘Town-Gown’ relations a concern

Strong opposition to the town’s action has yet to be voiced, mostly because as McMillen admits, the resolution has received
very little attention. Students have expressed concerns about any such action. Joseph Adams ’06 worried that, despite not being a
permanent resident of Davidson, the resolution will affect him. “The town-gown relationship here is a lot stronger than in most
college towns,” he said. “For that reason, what the town does has a greater impact on us.” Adams and others
who support the Patriot Act fear the resolution will only tarnish Davidson’s reputation. Parker Rhea ’06 said, “[The resolution] is
going to cause a rift between students and the town’s population because conservative students are not going to sit idly
by and let the town council of Davidson drag the College’s reputation in the mud.”

While Davidson College, as a private institution, has not been directly involved in the subcommittee, students opposed to the resolution
worry that any action taken by the town will be linked to the College. “Most people would associate the town
of Davidson with Davidson College,” said Rhea.

Is the Act constitutional?

While Just Peace and the Town Council hope to adopt an active resolution reaffirming citizens’ constitutional rights, they realize any
statement passed cannot override the Patriot Act, a federal law. One provision Campbell hoped to include in the resolution was
to “clarify the role of the Police in relationship to the conflicts that arise between our rights and freedoms and
the USA PATRIOT Act.” Members of the town council, however, are hesitant of taking any such action. “As objectionable to
me as many of the actions allowed by this Act are, I can’t, as an elected official, tell a town
employee to knowingly violate a law that has yet to be determined to be unconstitutional,” said McMillen.

Instead, McMillen hopes to use the resolution as a reminder. “This type of resolution will reinforce that there are potential
dangers. People will begin to question the wisdom of the Act.” In this way, the resolution will be more of
a statement of the town board’s beliefs than a proposal for specific remedies. Dr. Mary Thornberry, Professor and Chair of
the Political Science Department, said via e-mail, “It will be more symbolic politics than anything.”

Rather than arguing the issue to a local town council, Adams proposes opponents of the Act take the issue to
the courts. “Judicial arguments should remain in the judicial realm,” he said. “If the town of Davidson is concerned with
the Constitution they would take up suit. Davidson v. United States of America.” McMillen, however, sees the resolution as a
stepping-stone to judicial action. “Hopefully, the resolutions by communities will encourage groups to test this issue in the courts,” he
said.

Council hopes for increased student interest in Town issues

Whether or not students support the resolution, Davidson Town Council hopes a dialogue with the College community and more student
interest in town issues will arise. Dr. Dave Martin, professor of Economics and a Davidson Town Commissioner, said, “It would
be wonderful if students would like to contribute. Unfortunately, it takes some time and effort. And quite frankly, student interest
waxes and wanes through the semester.” McMillen adds his hope that the partnership with the College’s Just Peace group will
“set a nice model” for continual dialogue between students and College faculty on larger issues.

Adams and other students have every intention of raising their concerns about the Patriot Act before any resolution is voted
upon. “There are things in the work, actions we are considering toUndertake because, at this point, with the position being
laid out, there is no reason for our opinions not to be heard.”

Construction still on schedule
By Alicia Janos
Staff Writer

While walking around campus, it is impossible to overlook the orange fences, piles of bricks, and empty houses on Patterson
Court, all indications that construction work is still underway in efforts to renovate and beautify Davidson College.

“This is the fourth of four years for utility construction, and the primary area for that was Belk, laundry, Vail
Commons, Richardson—that whole area out there,” said Director of Facilities and Engineering David Holthouser. The focus of the work was
on adding new steam, chilled water, power, telecommunications, and domestic water to the four buildings.

Holthouser happily affirmed that the work being done on Chambers is “going very well. We are well into phase two,
which is the north end.” The project includes hanging sheet rock on the top floors and will require many faculty
members to relocate rooms over Christmas break, thus allowing workers to transition into phase three (the south end) by the
spring semester.

As was evident on First Night Down, renovations are still underway for the houses on Patterson Court, with four houses
now at substantial completion, and one currently in the process. Holthouser said that he and his workers were “very pleased
that we were able to open these as close to the start of the semester,” considering the fact that it
normally takes four months to renovate a house, but Rusk was completed in only three this past spring.

The exact cost of renovating all of Patterson Court is unknown, due to the fact that every house is different,
but Holthouser promises that with each house costing between $250,000 and $300,000, he and his staff are on budget. As
a result of unforeseen weather hindrances, especially continual rain through the first week of July, projects were accelerated toward the
end of the summer. Landscaping around Patterson Court and Commons became an issue, and though all of the utilities are
now in the ground, there is still work to be done in order to make the premises aesthetically appealing.

“The guys barely got it put back together before the students arrived,” said Holthouser about the summer work.

Cat Card use on Main Street, overzealous police enforcement top this week's agenda
By Georgie Ahrendt
Staff Writer

One of the main issues addressed at last week’s SGA meeting concerned the use of CatCards at local businesses on
Main Street. A survey will soon be going out to Davidson students in order to gauge how they feel about
being able to use their CatCards to make purchases at Main Street businesses such as CVS, The Soda Shop, and
Jason’s Deli. Joel’s Sushi Bar & Grill has lost its CatCard capabilities, however, because it received below an “A” rating
during a health inspection. By contract, Joel’s can be reinstated on the CatCard circuit if it explains the reasons for
the rating.

The survey that students will be receiving in a few weeks will ask several questions pertaining to their current and
potential spending habits on Main Street. The questions ask how often students go to Main Street, which businesses they most
often patronize, and whether or not they would patronize Main Street more often if they were able to use their
CatCard. These questions are a few of many that will attempt to rate student interest. If student response is positive,
then the CatCard expansion project will begin by signing up businesses right away. If feedback is negative, there will be
hesitancy to move forward because the College could lose significant amounts of money on the venture.

Another issue addressed at the SGA meeting concerns police activities on campus. It has been recognized that police efforts have
frequently been overzealous. Director of Campus Safety Fountain Walker assured SGA, “I promise you. I am aware of the bike
nazis.” SGA members and Campus Safety agree that the police staff needs to begin a learning process on how much
they should crack down on campus activities as well as work on a compromise between being very involved (such as
checking the ID of every student walking by) and letting minor offenses slip through the cracks.

Education at Work
Philadelphia Center
Get a taste of life in one of America’s greatest cities. Earn academic credit living, working, and studying in Philadelphia!
Financial Aid applies and academic credits transfer!
215.735.7300
