RASS SHRM AND

From a gentleman

Mention Valentine’s Day to a guy only if you want to see him curl up in a ball and cry. Valentine’s is a female holiday; for males, it is an absolute nightmare. The only redeeming factor is that on V-Day we might (see below) get lucky at the end of the night. Men are expected to wine, dine, romance, woo, give the lady an expensive gift and then—if everything is absolutely perfect—we stand a chance of scoring. If we choose the wrong gift, or pick the wrong restaurant, then the night degenerates into a discussion about how we “don’t understand your needs.” Clearly, this holiday needs work. So, ladies, here is my list of the “best” things you can do to inject February 14 with some much-needed testosterone—you might want to take notes.

Best Gift: A signed contract stating that you will never initiate any heart-to-heart relationship conversations again. For instance, you are no longer allowed to say, “you don’t understand me.” Also, loaded questions such as, “How do you feel?” “What are you thinking?” and “Do I look fat in this?” are prohibited for the duration of the relationship. It’s the gift that never stops giving.

Best Restaurant: Hooters (this is too easy). To enhance the evening, you will encourage us to eat as many wings as we can and drink beer till we can’t see straight. You will not be bothered when we flirt with the waitress. In fact, you will help us in that endeavor by saying things like, “You were incredible last night,” loudly when she’s in earshot. And when we suggest that you get one of those waitress outfits to wear around the house, you’ll buy it with your own money.

Best Date Activity: After a nice meal at Hooters, what man could turn down a poker game with his best friends? You drop us off with $200 cash, a 12-pack, and a good luck kiss. Then, you disappear for four hours and come back to pick us up. You will congratulate us if we win, and not care that we lost $200 of your money due to cold cards.

Best Place to Kiss: I think the phrase, “It’s Valentine’s Day. Can’t we just skip foreplay tonight?” should become a part of every woman’s Valentine’s Day vocabulary.

Best Romantic Comment: Men are more visual than women, so this one was tough. But I think any man would find, “No really, if you think she’s prettier than me then let’s ask her to come home with us,” a pretty romantic sentiment. Ladies, this one could be used year-round actually, but it might be best to save for special days.

Best Ideas for all the Singles out There: Get on your knees and thank God you’re single. Then, pretend it’s St. Patty’s Day (a much better holiday anyway), and drink red beer. It’s what I’ll be doing (and after reading this column it’s obvious why I find myself perpetually unattached too). So, if you really want to impress your man this Valentine’s Day, then turn the tables and romance him. If you follow my simple list, then you won’t have to explain how you don’t understand his needs at the end of the night.

From a lady

Did you know that the origin of Valentine’s Day was a lascivious Roman celebration resulting in pimply, hormonal youngsters picking a “mate” for the year? So little Syphillificus and petite Chlamidiarana would make beautiful music for 12 months and then trade in their togas for two newer models. Not so romantic, huh? Not that sitting on a milk-dud laden couch watching a Lifetime special entitled “Minute Romance On the High Seas: The Story of Two Finnish Dwarves In a Lifeboat” is all that amorous.

We all know that for some, Valentine’s Day is full of phallic-shaped m’and m’ tubes, and French-calligraphed declarations of undying devotion. But for the chronically single, it is all chalky heart candy; the likes of which get lodged in your throat after your gag reflex sets in. For all you unlucky relationship-mongers who have the great misfortune to take part in a holiday sappier than Richard Simmons’ sweaty spandex, here are some dreamy suggestions (disclaimer: these are from a girl as romantically incompetent as a commitment-phobic chimp):

Best Gift: Bio-terrorism protection pack that comes with a heart-shaped gas mask and lavender-scented smallpox vaccine. Or for those of you lacking an “apocalyptic death scene” sense of humor, get your sweetie a much-needed contractual agreement stating things like, “Thou shalt not booty call after 3 a.m.”

Best Restaurant: Go exotic with smoldering Latino fare at “Zapata’s” on Exit 28. Oh wait, they were shut down for tax evasion. Who knew “asbestos enchiladas” weren’t as nutritious as they were tasty? The solution: One Taco Bell. Two sporks.

Best Date Activity: Watching five hours of male ice dancing and then camping out under the stars while we talk profusely about Celtic music and our deep-seated feelings for one another. Cliché much? Try a six-pack and an episode of the “Crocodile Hunter.”

Best Place to Kiss: Well, I personally like the neck, but I'll leave the readers to their own discretion on this one. Second choice: The VAC. It’s as pleasantly deserted as a post-prom “Carrie” scene in there.

Best Romantic Comment: “Did I tell you I got something published in The New Yorker? Ok, it was a letter to the editor from my grandma in 1959 about hemorrhoid ointment. Still, doesn’t this intellectual foreplay turn you on?” Or, for the more court-oriented: “Heeey, come on over to my room.”

Best Advice for singletons: Think of yourselves as wild, young explorers, setting the world ablaze with your unfettered freedom (instead of desperate, emotionally stunted, mental patients, doomed to be loved only by hungry ferrets). Seriously, don’t allow “the man” to spoon-feed you the monogamy worship that has become the status quo. Guys: Not every girl is a weeping mass of pre-wedding clinginess. As the classic anthem says, some girls just want to have fun.

My advice is to enjoy your twenties because the day is fast approaching when sowing your “oats” will be as socially unacceptable as having less than 57 shades of beige in your wardrobe.

To avoid war, the world must stand united against Saddam

By ZAC WILLIAMS
Staff Columnist

With the United States becoming ever more convinced of the need to goTo war with Iraq, growing anti-American sentiment abroad continues to deepen. Our administration’s unilateralist rhetoric only strengthens the bands of foreigners who see the United States as little more than a stubborn hegemon which gives little priority to issues outside of its self-interest. But does this belief justify the anti-Bush attitudes by what some have deemed the “axis of annoyance” in both France and Germany today? While President Bush would be crazy to admit it, our war-like stance on Iraq can be largely attributed to the old European ideas of Realpolitik. A pre-emptive attack on Iraq is essentially needed before that country is allowed to gain the power or ability to inflict damage on us. Weapons of mass destruction have taken the place of large armies or powerful governments. Moreover, why permit a fractured regime bent on corruption and intimidation to control such a crucial region as Iraq? It somehow seems more productive to see Iraqi oil revenues fund such things as rehabilitation of the Mideast region, both economically and socially, rather than the next nuclear bomb or major terrorist attack. Pre-emption is key in the age of nuclear and biological arms.

France and Germany must cease their ridiculous attempts at out-playing the United States and its allies at the international card table. Instead of approaching the Iraqi issue pragmatically, both the French and Germans remain locked into a pre-existing anti-American/anti-war stance. Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany would commit political suicide by siding with the United States at this point, since his desperate anti-war platform last fall almost single-handedly secured his re-election in a country largely disgusted with the economic downslide which continues today. The French, as many know, are always happy to cause a stir on the international stage. Thomas Friedman recently rebuked the irritating nation with, “France is so caught up with its need to differentiate itself from America to feel important, it’s become silly.” Tony Blair, on the other hand, is standing his ground in Britain against tough anti-war public opinion polls that could threaten his government in the near future. Admittedly, public sentiment in many European countries remains opposed to the idea of war in Iraq anytime soon. However, increasing numbers of leaders are putting their careers on the line by ignoring the polls and coming to terms with the United States. History has often seen the tragic results of trusting pacifists. The next 9/11 could be just around the corner. Pre-emption is key in the age of nuclear and biological arms. A united world order against Hussein and Iraq now remains our best chance at avoiding war. In this instance, having no allies to turn to, Saddam would be forced to comply completely, or be humbled swiftly by an international display of force.

Powell’s UN speech left key questions about Iraq unanswered

By Matt BANDYK
Staff Columnist

Colin Powell’s address to the United Nations Security Council last Wednesday was the Bush administration’s strongest case for war on Iraq yet. Powell presented numerous pieces of evidence, including taped conversations and satellite photos, which undeniably prove that Saddam Hussein is not only uncooperative with weapons inspections, but also actively deceptive. However, there are two problems with the speech that prevent the case for war from being as persuasive as Powell and the rest of the Bush administration would like it to be.

First, the US government is still unable to prove that Saddam would offensively use weapons of mass destruction. Powell tried to paint Saddam as the Middle Eastern equivalent of Hitler, saying “Saddam Hussein and his regime will stop at nothing until something stops him.” However, a recent article in Foreign Policy by renowned political scientists Stephen Walt and John Mearsheimer makes a powerful argument to the contrary: history proves that Saddam has been and still is deterred from aggressive action due to the might of the US military. He only invaded Kuwait after being told by US ambassador April Glaspie, “We have no opinion on Arab-Arab conflicts, like your border disagreements with Kuwait.” When the other President Bush hinted at massive military retaliation if Iraq were to use weapons of mass destruction during the Persian Gulf War, Saddam did not use his deadly chemical and biological weapons because he knew that doing so would ensure his downfall. Walt and Mearsheimer also argue that the threat of American retaliation would deter Saddam from giving weapons to terrorists, because he would be the prime suspect as a supplier if a terrorist group were to use weapons of mass destruction. Powell’s warnings of Saddam’s dangerous ambitions become hollow if it is empirically proven that American deterrence can contain Iraq. The only attempt that the Bush administration has made to prove that Saddam is a real threat is pointing out that he used chemical weapons against his own people, a fact that was reiterated in Wednesday’s address. But, Powell failed to mention that when Saddam committed that horrible deed the US was allied with him in opposition to Iran, and actually supplied the Iraqi military with aid.

The second problem is Powell’s failure to provide a compelling link between Al Qaeda and Iraq. Powell accused Iraq of harboring and supporting a terrorist network run by Al Qaeda member Abu Musab Al-Zarqawi. His evidence proves that such a network does exist in Iraq, but similar Al Qaeda terrorist cells exist in many countries around the world. The evidence suggesting that the Iraqi government is actually supporting this group is very slim and mostly relies on the testimonies of Iraqi defectors and detainees who could have easily lied in order to tell the Americans what they want to hear. Furthermore, according to a Feb. 2 New York Times report, some analysts within the CIA claimed that senior administration officials were “exaggerating the significance” of the intelligence linking Iraq to Al Qaeda. If the US government is going to stress Iraq’s support of Osama Bin Laden’s organization as a reason to go to war, then they must prove a closer relationship between the two.

Russia, France, and China remain opposed to war in Iraq. They possess key UN Security Council votes that could easily block a resolution that would give the US the international legitimacy to finally wage war on Iraq. It is very possible that nothing can sway their opposition. But if the Bush administration wants to make a truly convincing case for war, then the holes in their argument must be addressed.