ES sess — » bs \. Staff Columnist

The 2004 election season is upon us, with the first debate among Democratic presidential candidates imminent. As the last issue
of the Davidsonian hits the presses, it is fitting to look forward and discuss the factors that will determine President
Bush’s chances at reelection in 2004.

The biggest problem the President will face is the economy. It really is not fair to the president to say
he has mismanaged the issue; in fact, he got something of a lemon when he took office. In early 2001,
the technology bubble was bursting, equity markets were about to begin their long-anticipated dip, and economic growth had slowed considerably
from the late Nineties. Then along came September 11, the Argentine fiscal crisis, corporate scandals, continued business woes in Europe
and Asia, and, most recently, SARS. All of these were things beyond Bush’s control. And, just for the record, the
recession was not a result of the 2001 tax cuts, which were not yet in effect when the downturn began.
So while it is not fair to blame the sluggish economy on Dubya, it still presents a political reality with
which he must deal.

A key move for him—both politically and economically—is securing the repeal of the dividends tax. This will provide an immediate
boost to the stock market, thus increasing the ability of firms to raise equity, raising the level of disposable income
available to many households, and giving firms less incentive to perform sketchy debt-hiding transactions. The boost to the markets would
also help to firm up consumer confidence.

On the foreign policy front, the Administration seems to have the backing of most voters. However, it needs to rebuild
Iraq quickly, and prevent radical Islam from arising there. All of this is easier said than done, but giving the
Iraqi people a large and prominent role in the reconstruction process should go a long way towards winning goodwill for
the President, both at home and abroad. The President should certainly make it clear to voters that he is not
going to allow a rogue state like North Korea to intimidate us. By pushing ahead with plans for missile defense
and taking a hard line in multilateral talks with the North Korean regime, the President will appear to be taking
positive steps towards resolving the crisis brewing in north Asia. While there is no easy answer to the current situation,
as long as Bush appears to be making progress it should not be a drag on his reelection chances.

To date, the President has accomplished an enormous amount. He has begun a crusade to reform the tax code, signed
into law a monumental education reform, quickly and effectively organized a Department of Homeland Security, and toppled totalitarian regimes in
two states. Other achievements, such as a ban on partial birth abortion and sweeping tort reform, seem imminent. If the
administration continues on the path it has been following for the past two years, its chances of re-election should be
very good.

By MIKE GALDO Staff Columnist

I thought I’d comment on a couple of topics for my last article of the year. The first is Spring
Frolics at Davidson—my favorite time of year. Naked people going down the water slide, drunken mud fights, people waking up
on Saturday morning still intoxicated and deciding to keep drinking instead of sobering up. Realizing on Sunday morning that you
have various cuts and bruises all over your body—and having no idea how they got there. Having to piece your
weekend together by the various places you were “sighted” by friends. The feeling that you actually go to college and
not an institute of learning. It’s the debaucherous kickoff to the term paper and exam season, the last gasp of
fun before the due dates come crashing down. For the seniors it’s one of the last times they can act
like an imbecile and suffer no consequences (except for a possible alcohol violation). Each year Spring Frolics has restored my
faith that there are people here who enjoy acting like retards every once in a while. We take ourselves way
too seriously. Sure, we are all intelligent—well, most of us are. Sure, we attend a top 10 liberal arts college,
so what? We are still 18-22-year-olds who need to throw off the oncoming pressures of adulthood every once in a
while and get stupid. That doesn’t necessarily mean imbibing ridiculous amounts of alcohol. But it does mean letting loose, letting
the consequences be damned. Maybe I’ve lost some of my work ethic after being abroad, but since coming back spending
more time with people has become a much higher priority. It seems like Spring Frolics is the only time the
entire campus wakes up and realizes that we are all people and not just students.

The second goal of this article is to offer up a bit of advice for everyone going abroad next year.
I spent a semester in St. Andrews, Scotland, so if you are going to Australia or anywhere in Asia then
I have nothing to offer. But, to the rest of you, here are a few things you should know. First
of all, go to Ireland. The pubs are great, the people are usually friendly (especially when you aren’t in a
city), and the natural beauty of places like the cliffs of Moher and the Dingle Peninsula is amazing. Watch out
for your wallet in Dublin (especially when a shady person bumps against you and runs away). The police won’t do
a thing, except advise you to cancel your credit cards. Anyways, despite the thievery, it’s a great country. Second, go
to Italy. I got the chance to spend several days in both Rome and Florence. Go there. You can get
cheap flights if you plan ahead and hostels won’t run you that much either. But if you are traveling by
train from Rome to Florence make sure you get on the right train. Waking up from a nap and finding
yourself in Naples is an awkward experience. My last bit of advice is to travel alone in a country where
you don’t know anyone and don’t know the language. Finding your way from the airport to your hostel with no
map and without being able to really communicate with a soul is one of the most rewarding things you will
ever do. Then again, you could...End up dead in a ditch, but if you survive, traveling will never seem difficult
again.

Trentham

Signing off with some parting advice

I can hardly believe this is my last column. It seems like yesterday I strolled into this rag’s organizational meeting
and signed up to be a columnist. I’m not sure where the term “Senior Source” came from, but I hope
I haven’t disappointed. In all honesty, I never wanted to be the source of anything other than a weekly dose
of B.S. Really, I just wanted to write. Four years at Davidson and despite my best efforts, I’ve actually learned
a couple of things. So for my last column, I thought I’d share some of the more important things I’m
taking with me from Davidson:

- You’re never as smart as you think you are. I learned this one really early freshman year. The first
paper I got back from my W-course had a big D at the top. That wasn’t nearly as disconcerting as
the words at the bottom: “What are you trying to do here? I can’t tell if this is sarcastic or
serious. It makes no sense. You are a moron, and I’m calling Admissions tomorrow to tell them they made a
horrible mistake.” Ok, I made that last sentence up, but I think it was implied.
- You had better get in line at Commons early on chicken tenders day. Show up late and you can
kiss the BBQ sauce goodbye. Show up real late and you won’t even get any tenders. I’ve seen people cry
about this. I know I would.
- You have to plan ahead when the laundry is busy. There is nothing worse than wearing the same pair
of underwear all weekend because you let the laundry pile up till Thursday. By Sunday you are one smelly mofo.
- Late night Waffle House runs with your friends are the best five dollars you’ll ever spend.
- Brick paths are everywhere, but if you walk around staring at them, with your eyes downcast, you miss a
lot.
- Right field at Wildcat Park might provide the best atmosphere in college baseball, and there were games when Belk
Arena was absolutely electric.
- Beirut is easily the best game ever.
- All-nighters are no fun. They make the world really hazy and surreal though. If that’s what you’re looking for,
then sleep deprivation is a solid alternative to those drugs that make you dance with glow sticks to horrendous music.
- 8:30 classes start two hours too early.
- Four years of college last about five days. And four of those days are real hazy.

There are still things I haven’t figured out. I’ve never learned what the Sparrow’s Nest is. For all I know
Saddam Hussein and Osama Bin Laden are in there playing Beirut—without me. Those two were always bad about starting up
a game and not calling anybody.

So this is goodbye, Davidson. Oddly enough I’m going to miss you. I’m not going to miss the work, but
I am going to miss things like staying up late night and taking stupid drunken pictures with my friends. That’s
the stuff you remember anyway, not some lecture. Is it just me, or is it getting dusty in here? I
should go. Oh, and Davidson, stop taking yourself so damn seriously. Please.

Disappointing frolics a sign of social changes on campus

By ALI FITZGERALD
Staff Columnist

Like an asthmatic in the “Cake Race,” Spring Frolics has limped and huffed its way to the finish line. And
with this departure of debauchery, the campus social scene is deader than a cooked... you know. In desperate caffeine-guzzling times
like these, I refer to my oracle—the large whiskey-swilling silhouette of Belushi. If you think about it, our little college
is similar to “Animal House.” Just replace that Jim Beam with a $7 Snapple procured at the Union, switch the
great wooden frat-house to a Physics Pizza party, and add a few accordion solos. Blend all these together, and you
will get a homogenous dollop of Davidson.

I’m not in any way suggesting that we turn our comforters into togas and live in an alco-topian society (Although,
for those interested, “Jello Shot-crates” will be meeting bi-weekly in the not-Kappa Sigma-house). The fact is, nerdiness and hermit-like habits
are as much a part of the Davidson spirit as neurosis and premature hair loss. As type-A personalities, we all
feel driven to “learn” by some great Oz-like force. But, where is the fun Auntie Em? (tired of this metaphor
yet?) Since when does a well-located carrel warrant a gold leaf engraving and a 400-person waiting list? No one showed
up to see “Blue Merle” on Saturday because the library is the new place to party.

Below I offer my meticulously objective, entirely thorough account of the fall of our very own “Inebriation Empire” (little did
you know my solo cup was really an elaborate recording device):

Freshman year: Beirut is banned; ping-pong ball sales plummet and I wear a black sash as a sign of mourning.
Carpal tunnel syndrome increases markedly from the year before, and Lil’ Bow Wow’s record deal signals the apocalypse.

Sophomore year: Impromptus are shut down faster than Urkel on a Saturday night. Local po-po obviously train extensively; running up
frat stairs Rocky-style and inventing new cup-taking techniques. A loner lifestyle is slowly gaining acceptance. Then the unthinkable occurs—the student
body is cheese-lessly stripped of Papa D’s talents when the Outpost closes. A great darkness falls over the land.

Fall 2002: I live the insomniac’s dream in sunny southern Spain. I find myself missing Davidson.

Spring 2003: No more sangria. No self-selected noise. Weekday nights are about as exciting as a Gore home video, and
my cinched pleather pants have met an untimely death—because ‘Pimp and Ho’ is no mo’.

And that brings us to this weekend. Whereas the Spring Frolics of yesteryear rolled in like a tsunami of sin,
this one was more akin to a blow-up baby pool. Connor House stepped up to the straw-laden plate by taking
over the slip and slide, but there was still something missing. A shirtless Bobby Vagt, perhaps?

But hey—I will take what I can get, because I know for the next couple of weeks, I will have
to rein in my academic-jargon A.D.D. and <gasp> study. While reading Kant, Keats and Kevorkian, I will dream of next
year’s frolicking. That and the exciting and equally over-hyped X-Men sequel.
