The Davidsonian

By Ross Hemphill
Staff Writer

Often it is difficult to articulate appreciation
of and respect for an individual who has had as
profound an effect on our society and culture as
Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

On Monday, students, faculty, and members
of the Davidson community came together to
do just that.

The daylong celebration featured speeches,
community meals, and other special events
designed to embrace the diverse, communal
atmosphere that helps make this day what it is.
Attendance of this year’s events was higher
than it has been in years past.

President Bobby Vagt said of the day’s fes-
tivities, “This year we had more opportunities
for people to involve themselves in than we
have ever had before.” He added, “Participa-
tion was up this year, but it still wasn’t what we
would hope for,” not intending to negate the
day’s positive events and the progress made.

Vagt cited the combination of the commu-
nity convocation and the following meal as the
day’s strongest, and most highly attended,
events. The convocation was given by former
Virginia governor Douglas Wilder, the nation’s
first black governor, and covered several issues
that Americans have worked to overcome and
are still working to overcome today.

Wilder, a politician, professor, and Korean
War veteran, stressed the importance of educa-
tion in working past the injustices that have
plagued the nation for centuries. He differenti-
ated between academic education and “educa-
tion for the intrinsic value of education,” the
latter of which is, in Wilder’s eyes, an essential
element for social progress.

“America has gone through this period of
digesting King,” he said, “yet we still have a
tendency to forget about the power of indi-
vidual involvement. We think that some group
is going to do it.”

At the core of the speech was Wilder’s disbe-
lief at the fact that, 34 years after King’s death,
many people still believe that nothing has
changed.

“I hear people say that nothing has changed in
these 34 years, and I can’t take them seriously,”
he said. “The only thing constant is change; the
only thing lasting is time.”

Wilder acknowledged leaders such as former
Senate Majority leader Trent Lott as an excep-
tion, not the rule. With wit, he recognized the
general citizenry as often being ahead of their
own leadership, much of which is ignorant to the
progress occurring around it.

Vagt noticed the crowd’s enthusiasm to
Wilder’s words. “I think he was very well re-
ceived,” he noted. “He was so positive about
what has been done and what lies ahead.”

A word from the president
Student Government Association's goals for Spring 2003

Dear Student Body,

This semester, the SGA will continue to
work on the many goals left unfinished since
departing for winter break.

At the last meeting, SGA voted on a substan-
tial change to the way that money will be given
out to student-chartered groups. Hopefully, the
change will make the process of getting money
to student groups easier for all involved.

This week, SGA will discuss the report com-
piled by a committee of SGA senators on the
status of Davidson’s Honor Code. Many stu-
dents spent part of last semester meeting with
the people that allow the Honor Code to func-
tion on a daily basis.

After we reviewed the Red Book and having
interviewed different individuals, there are sev-
eral items that the SGA will discuss in
regards to recommending changes to the Red
Book. These changes are designed to increase
student involvement with the Code, and to
make sure that all students fully understand the
Code’s impact on their daily lives.

The SGA is also planning to charter a bus for
travel to the basketball game at Appalachian
State on Feb. 22.

One main goal will be getting a student to be
a voting member on the board of trustees.

A second goal is to create a grant for student
groups in order to help bring about positive
change on campus. This grant would be avail-
able to help student groups with new initiatives,
initiatives that require larger amounts of money
than what ATC normally grants them in the
regular budget process.

The current SGA administration only has a
few weeks left, but they will be busy and hope to
bring about some important change in areas that
directly affect students’ lives.

The elections for the new SGA President,
Vice President and Union Board President will
be on Feb. 10. Sign-ups will begin on Monday,
Jan. 27 in the Dean of Students Office.

Sincerely,
Grady Patterson
SGA President

RENT, from page 1

will be drawn and 1 or 2 tickets will be given to
those with the respective numbers. Payment
must be in cash.

According to Bannerman, offering same-
day discounted tickets is RENT’s way of say-
ing “thank-you” to RENT fans. After generat-
ing a huge following after opening in 1996,
RENT managers wished to give back a little to
fans. This offer is not available to the public and
is a generous gesture to Davidson students and
staff.

RENT, the fourth longest running Broadway
show, has won several Tony Awards along with
the Pulitzer Prize for drama.

Those interested in purchasing tickets or with
further questions can call the Ticket Office at
894-2135.

Join the Ranks
Hall Counselor and Resident Advisor Positions

Hall Counselors (rising Juniors and Seniors)

Resident Advisors (rising Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors)

All interested parties encouraged to apply!

Applications are currently available at RLO and are due to RLO by 5:00 pm, Friday
January 31st, 2003. Screening will begin in February and include an individual interview and
participation in a group process activity. Decisions will be made before Spring Break.

Compensation includes an $800 stipend and half off the room rate for the 2003-2004 year.
Questions? Please contact Associate Director, Leslie Urban, at leurban@davidson.edu or x2188.