McKillop’s game-winning attempt clangs off the rim as time expires

By Matt GARFIELD
Editor

The men’s basketball team is learning to appreciate Peter Anderer more and more with each passing game. The Wildcats (9-6,
3-2) fell to 1-3 since Anderer broke his right (shooting) hand on Jan. 11 against Western Carolina, this time with
a 61-60 loss at VMI on Tuesday night in Lexington, Va. Anderer is expected to miss another four weeks, and
the team is struggling to score points in his absence. Guard Matt McKillop’s final three-point attempt of the game clanged
off the rim as the buzzer sounded, leaving Davidson a bucket short of a conference road victory.

Four Wildcats scored in double-digits with senior Wayne Bernard leading the way with 13 points, six rebounds, and six assists.
Conor Grace, Brendan Winters, and McKillop netted 12 points apiece. “We lost the last game of the regular season here
last year before going on to win the conference tournament,” said head coach Bob McKillop. “If that is a harbinger
of things to come this year, we’ll take it.”

Saturday
Davidson 65
Furman 57

Coaches’ sons took center stage Saturday night against Furman. Freshmen Matt McKillop (son of head coach Bob) and Brendan Winters
(son of former Golden State Warriors coach Brian) combined for 31 points to lead Davidson to a conference win over
Furman in a rematch of last season’s SoCon championship game. “They did a good job of getting the ball to
their shooters and making them when it counts,” said Furman coach Larry Davis.

The game marked the return of junior forward Jouni Eho, who had missed the previous 10 games with a foot
injury. He played 20 minutes, and although he scored just two points, his four offensive rebounds provided a spark for
Davidson. Senior point guard Wayne Bernard didn’t shoot well (2-for-10) and scored below his season average with nine points, but
head coach Bob McKillop said the statistics don’t do justice to Bernard’s play. “Wayne Bernard probably played with the most
energy he’s had in four years,” said Bob McKillop. “He drives our car, and he had to have that motor
running at all times. Tonight he didn’t turn it off.”

Jan. 13
Davidson 63
Chattanooga 67

Chattanooga hired former North Carolina star Jeff Lebo to revive a program that had fallen on hard times after a
Cinderella run to the NCAA Tournament Sweet 16 in 1996. The revival began even sooner than expected, and the Mocs’
thrilling 67-63 home win was the latest example. In their first game without Peter Anderer, the Wildcats didn’t have quite
enough firepower to pull out the win. “Our defense was tremendous,” said McKillop. “We’ve just got to be smarter in
the last five or six minutes.”

With Anderer sidelined, Wildcats struggle for points in loss at VMI

Photo by Doug Jackson
Senior Wayne Bernard shoots during Saturday’s 65-57 win over Furman.

Davidson vs. UNC Greensboro
Belk Arena
Saturday 7 p.m.

This Saturday, the Wildcats and Spartans will renew what has become a heated rivalry over the past two years. But
given UNCG’s performance so far, this one might not measure up to the epic battles of the past.

THE OPPONENT: The Spartans (4-12, 1-4) are having a disastrous season because of inexperience at the point guard position and
poor leadership from the rest of the team. Head coach Fran McCaffery admits as much, telling the Greensboro News &
Record.Recently, he stated that he’s “never been associated with a team less committed to winning.” An upset over the Wildcats
would go a long way toward easing the Spartans’ pain. Junior Jay Joseph is the team’s top scorer and maybe
the sidelined. Joseph scored 33 points in Saturday’s loss to Georgia Southern. Containing Joseph is the key to beating UNCG.

THE HISTORY: Two seasons ago, UNCG won three last-second games over Davidson—including a heartbreaker in the semifinals of the SoCon
Tournament. Last year, the Wildcats returned the favor with three wins of their own—also including a semifinals victory. "They attacked
us on the conference’s deadliest shooter—at least while Peter Anderer is," said Bob McKillop after the game. The third round
begins Saturday. The Wildcats start the antennae season on a winning note. “Conor Grace was sensational today,” said McKillop. “This
was probably the best game he’s played at Davidson.”

Dec. 30: Davidson 66, Florida State 82
Losing to Arizona is understandable. Florida State is a little different. As in the tournament opener against Arizona, Davidson kept
the score close in the opening half despite a slew of turnovers, trailing by just two at the intermission, 32-30.
The Wildcats took the lead less than a minute into the second half on a lay-up and three-pointer by senior
Peter Anderer. But with the score tied at 36, the Seminoles scored 10 unanswered points, and Davidson never got closer
than six points during the final 15 minutes.

Dec. 28: Davidson 69, Arizona 95
In a Wildcats vs. Wildcats battle in Tucson, AZ, Davidson played with Arizona for the first 20 minutes and trailed
by only six points at halftime. The second half quickly turned into a blowout. “Arizona just wore us down,” said
Davidson head coach. “They attacked us on the boards, they attacked us in transition, they attacked us in every aspect
of the game, and it simply wore us down.”

Dec. 21: Davidson 125, Wash. & Jefferson 44
The final score says it all.

Dec. 10: Davidson 77, St. Bonaventure 72
A thrilling second-half comeback lifted Davidson to what might turn out to be its most impressive win of the season—against
a physical Atlantic 10 team in the Bonnies. “I thought our defense in the second half was terrific, especially by
Michel Lusakueno and Berard,” McKillop said after the game.

Dec. 7: Davidson 75, Charlotte 56
The Wildcats took back the Hornets’ Nest trophy with a vengeance, using a 75-56 win to earn their first victory
over the 49ers in seven years. Despite the lingering effects of a winter storm that occurred three days earlier, 5,036
fans from both teams turned out for a much more lopsided game than anyone expected. “You never want to lose
to a team four times in a row,” said Anderer. “It’s wonderful to finally take home the trophy.”

The Davidsonian | Player of the Week
Emily Callahan ‘05
Women’s Basketball
Hometown: Charlotte, North Carolina
Major: Undecided

A product of South Mecklenburg High School, Callahan followed her 26-point performance against Georgia Southern with a career-high 33 points
against Appalachian State. The 6-foot forward also picked up her first double-double, recording 10 rebounds against the Mountaineers.

THE WEEK AHEAD
Women’s Basketball at East Tennessee State
Men’s and Women’s Swimming at Norfolk, Va.
Men’s Basketball vs. UNCG
Women’s Basketball vs. College of Charleston
Men’s Basketball at East Tennessee State

6:00 p.m.
12:00 p.m.
1:00 p.m.
6:00 p.m.
7:00 p.m.
Monday
7:00 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
