5
Study Abroad Spotlight

The two worst things you can eat: croissants and croissan'wiches

By KATHERINE BAIRD, ANNIE GUILL, & ELYSSA TARDIF
Special Contributors

Our mothers told us we would be losing weight in France during our year abroad by not having the convenience
of a car, because everyone knows that Europeans walk a lot. Our mothers didn’t realize that we would indeed be
walking... walking to get food, that is. France. A country diverse in its plethora of architectural styles, flora, as well
as fauna, and its myriad historical events often immortalized in classic French literature. The aspect we most embrace, however, is
the cuisine.

Whether we get the munchies while waiting in line at the Internet cafe, or while consoling ourselves after opening an
inbox full of junk mail and void of loving email from friends back home, France has the number one remedy
for turning that frown upside-down.

While Tours is a hopping little ville, weekends are best spent exploring the various regional food options. Par exemple, while
traveling in Northeastern France, a quick stop in Strasbourg can lead to a full tummy of pretzel-style beignets. What is
a beignet, you ask? Think Krispy Kreme without a hole, plunged in sugary delight.

Moving westward to Normandy, it’s customary to start and finish a meal with a member of the crepe family. First
up is the galette, simply a wheat-style crepe (surprisingly healthy). To counterbalance the saltiness of the galette, the Normans propose
a vast array of crepe fillings ranging from powdered sugar to Nutella.

While it’s true that seeing the legendary monuments of Paris for the first time can be thrilling, the experience will
only be heightened with a warm, buttery croissant by your side. Picture us lounging in the garden behind Notre Dame,
mesmerized by the intricacies of the flying buttresses, meticulously avoiding the smallest wasted drop of Paris’ finest ice cream.

Home again, home again: Tours, France. Population: 250,000. Increase of city’s food consumption since fall of 2002: 300%. (Author’s note:
this corresponds in no way to the arrival of the Davidson JYA program in France.) Situation: Sunday afternoon. You’re hungry.
You’re in France. The streets are deserted, except, wait... in the distance, you see a yellow awning. Yellow, normally signaling
caution, today means “Allez, allez, allez!” Mie Caline. A gourmand’s paradise (www.lamiecaline.com). Shelf after shelf of almond and chocolate croissants,
chocolate-dipped meringue, fruit tarts galore, and mouth-watering chocolate chip cookies (read: palm-sized patties of unbaked cookie dough).

But if you thought that Mie Caline couldn’t get any more delectable, wait; they have sales! Here’s how it works:
when the cookies happen to be on sale (which occurs every other day), you can purchase 3 cookies for the
low, low price of 1.50€ (please be sure to note how the number of authors just happens to correspond to
the number of cookies). No matter what day of the week, when you walk by and they’re on sale, you
just can’t say no. Have no fear, however; even when there is no sale, we still partake in the cookie-eating
fun: after all, you only actually save 0.08€ on sale days. (In other words, we are three American cookie-consuming machines,
and proud of it).

Although we hate to admit it, our time in France is drawing to an end. Now that we think about
it, why are we wasting time writing this article when we have not yet had to resort to wearing leggings,
since our jeans surprisingly still fit- if by “fit” you mean having to lie down on the bed and suck
in every ounce of air you have just to get that button buttoned (while of course screaming “Vive la France!”).

About the authors: Katherine Baird is a junior at Davidson. Annie Guill and Elyssa Tardif are students enrolled in Wheaton
College and Bates College, respectively.
