5 Movie Review

Green’s sophomore effort full of emotional truth

North Carolina’s premiere filmmaker explores love in the best movie romance since ‘Say Anything’

Zooey Deschanel and Paul Schneider star in Green’s ‘Real Girls’.

By Jimmy Newlin
Special Contributor

Consider director David Gordon Green the anti-Tarantino. While there may still be a handful of film school grads who want to make another “Pulp Fiction” or “Clerks,” Green is influenced by quiet, haunting films from the 1970s like “Walkabout,” “McCabe and Mrs. Miller,” and “Days of Heaven.” Other filmmakers want quick cuts of intensity and violence, and devote their screenplays to smarmy dialogue and Mametisms. Green is much more devoted to long deep shots and elegant zooms, and his characters speak in lyric.

A graduate of the North Carolina School of the Arts, Green’s first feature was 2000’s “George Washington,” an ethereal portrait of a group of children growing up in a dilapidated Winston-Salem which won numerous film festival awards. His newest film, “All The Real Girls,” won a special jury prize at Sundance “for emotional truth.” Fitting, considering “All The Real Girls” is probably the best movie romance since “Say Anything.”

“All The Real Girls” concerns the courting of Paul and Noel, the sister of Paul’s best friend Tip home from boarding school. The ups and downs of their story cannot be done justice in this piece, and summaries are boring anyway. This is a movie for unabashed romantics, and fans of J-Lo mistaken identity comedies need not apply. The performances by near unknowns Zooey Deschanel and Paul Schneider are extraordinarily powerful, flawlessly capturing all of the passion and fragility of a first love. “I just hope that in a million years from now I can still see you up close and we’ll still have amazing things to say,” Paul tells Noel, tragically unaware that he is foreshadowing a less idyllic destiny.

Schneider and Deschanel are outstanding, but they hardly steal the show. “All The Real Girls” is blessed with a wonderful supporting cast. Paul’s mother Elvira and his uncle Leland make up Paul’s impression of the older generation; like the film’s younger characters, Leland and Elvira are equally capable of pain, humor, and understanding. There is Paul’s clueless friend Bust-Ass, an unlikely competitor for Noel’s affections, and who hits on girls by talking at great length about carbohydrates and how long he has played the lap-steel. Like “George Washington,” “All The Real Girls” utilizes child actors, who emit such natural and beautiful performances that I hope someone takes that brat from those Pepsi commercials to see this film. Leland’s Asian daughter Feng-Shui provides one of the movie’s most poignant moments of sadness, relating a nightmare to her father that a less capable actress would tell as a joke, but which she makes extraordinarily affecting. There is also Noel’s younger, mentally handicapped brother Justin, who is refreshingly portrayed so as to emit neither laughs nor pity from the audience.

Whereas “George Washington” was awash in color, as the characters ran and played in junkyards, abandoned mini-golf courses, and graffiti-strewn alleys, “All The Real Girls” is all yellows and browns, capturing the mountains of Asheville in autumn. Tim Orr, the cinematographer from “George Washington,” is responsible for the visuals of “All The Real Girls” as well, and the result is spectacular. The movie’s deliberate pacing is determined by a combination of lengthy tracking shots and brief vignettes of the landscapes and vistas. The film seems to say that when you’re in love you feel that everything around you is beautiful, and when you’re out of love, you begrudgingly admit that everything around you is still pretty beautiful.

David Gordon Green is a remarkable talent; under 30 years old with two excellent feature-length films already under his belt. Considering that “George Washington” and “All The Real Girls” were both made within two hours of Davidson, maybe we should pay particularly close attention to Green’s projects. Artists like David Gordon Green are true testaments to the independent spirit; showing us that original and startling films can be made anywhere.

Theater Review

‘Angels’ provoking and moving; Beth Gardner steals the show

By Linny Baldwin
Staff Writer

What a semester for the Duke Family Performance Hall. Did anyone ever expect Davidson to host two major productions dealing with AIDS and homosexuality in a three-month span? First “RENT” had us humming “525,600 Minutes” and tearing up at Angel’s death. Now a student cast gives us Tony Kushner’s Pulitzer-winning masterwork “Angels in America, Part I: Millennium Approaches,” and wins a four-star review from the Charlotte Observer. Despite their similar subject...matter, however, “Angels” and “RENT” could not be more different. “RENT” was an exercise in style rather than in substance. The themes were powerful, but the characters were broadly drawn, and ultimately the play’s treatment of AIDS and homosexuality seemed somewhat thin, a plot device rather than an issue. We could spin through Angel’s illness with a loud rock music montage and cut straight to the tear-jerking funeral farewells. “Angels,” on the other hand, is not about themes. “Angels” is about its characters, all of whom are adrift in the confusing moral sea of 1980s America. These characters do not exist merely to prove a point; they are human, fallible, in pain, and in love. Kushner does not spare us the agonizing process of dying from AIDS in the 1980s. We see Prior (Bill Neville) writhing in pain on the floor, his body covered with lesions. We feel Louis’s (Ryan Hastings) agony as he watches his lover sink deeper and deeper into the illness, and questions whether he’s strong enough to stay. Although the three and a half hours in the theatre didn’t feel that long while I was watching, by the time I left I felt exhausted just from the sheer power of the play. This is not a “tolerance” piece. Likeable but clueless straight characters do not grow to accept homosexuality through contact with a saintly gay man or loveable lesbian. No one gives an impassioned speech about why we should accept and love one another. “Angels” does not manipulate us or demand a certain reaction to a given situation. It simply places its flawed, three-dimensional characters in front of us and lets us draw our own lessons from their pain. In short, it asks us to think. Not just about homosexuality, either, but about race, gender, democracy, justice, and faith.

Thus far I have made “Angels in America” sound like an ordeal, something to be survived and analyzed rather than enjoyed. However, Kushner’s play contains many funny moments and deft one-liners, and while it’s an intense three hours, I never found it depressing. Part of that can be attributed to the first-rate cast. Ryan Hastings, as Louis Ironson, was exceptionally adept at portraying his character’s neurosis, self-absorption, and genuine pain. Alan Stevens hit all the right notes as Roy Cohn, a hypocritical and corrupt historical figure. Marc Vinson fit easily and naturally into both of his characters, one a compassionate nurse and ex-drag-queen named Belize and the other a showy (and imaginary) travel agent. Bill Neville had perhaps the most challenging part as the AIDS-stricken Prior Walter, but the talented Neville made it look easy. Anna Jensen and Sara Romeis both played several minor characters, all to great effect. However, senior Beth Gardner stole the show as Harper Pitt, a Valium addict miserably married to her closeted husband Joe (Parker Dixon). Whenever Harper was onstage, it was hard to look anywhere else. Everything Gardner did—from clutching a pillow, to conversing with imaginary figures, to merely staring at her husband with her mouth set in a grim line—drew a flawless picture of her unhappy character. The cast will conduct a read-through of “Angels in America, Part II: Perestroika” on April 4 at 7:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall. For all who missed the performance in Duke, I would encourage you to clear your calendars. Our professors often encourage us to think for ourselves, and “Angels in America” provides us all with an unparalleled opportunity to do just that.

Sardonic and Irreverent

Cool

Skynyrd, “Red, White, and Blue”: Some lyrics from their newest, epic single: “My hair’s turning white, my neck’s always been red, my collar’s still blue.” We all can relate to this one. Destined for anthem status.

Text Twist: If you’re on the internet and can’t look at pornography, it’s the best way to waste time. Even better than Snood and less annoying than Instant Messenger. You can play at games.yahoo.com.

Rape Awareness Week: Not exactly the most cheerful of campus happenings, but certainly one of the most important. Unfortunately, the people who should be more aware didn’t attend any of the week’s events.

lynyrdskynyrd.com

The Celine Dion Las Vegas Spectacular: Caesar’s Palace built a colosseum for the French Canadian diva’s show. The stage includes the world’s largest LCD screen. Ticketmaster.com is selling tickets for $83 to $200, and if you buy one, you are very not cool.

The Common’s Special Sandwich: Tuesday’s specialty was turkey with lettuce, tomato, and onion on white bread. Someone should tell them not to get too culinarily creative.

SARS: The Davidsonian officially believes that deadly diseases are not cool.