Complaints and Comments

With my New York Yankees (that’s right Southerners, the Yankees) having just won ten of their last eleven games, and the impending arrival of October assuring us of plenty more victories to come, I’m sure that somewhere around campus I’ll soon hear belligerent Braves fans bashing George Steinbrenner for corrupting baseball with his unending supply of money. Commons will echo with these cries once the playoffs begin, pitting the high-rolling Yankees against payroll patsies like the Twins or A’s. “Steinbrenner’s ruining baseball,” they’ll cry and cry, gritting their teeth at the very thought of the moneyed maniac who runs his team with an iron fist and Rolex-ed wrist. “The Yankees spend too much darn money!”

My response: don’t hate the owner; hate the league. With the salary cap system (or lack thereof) that baseball currently operates under, it’s obviously not legally possible to spend too much, and if you (Yankee-haters) can move past your inbred hatred of pinstripes, you’ll see that it isn’t morally possible, either. The Yankees have the biggest fan base of any team in the world, which, coupled with lucrative television and sponsor contracts, gives them the most revenue. Wouldn’t it be a bigger crime if Steinbrenner didn’t spend this money on his team but instead kept it all to himself? Too many owners are more concerned with profits than win percentages, and the records of their teams take a backseat — and show it (though Steinbrenner clearly makes his fair share of money). Isn’t he acting as a model owner by doing everything in his power to help his team win? Maybe all the complaints against the Yankees are nothing more than the whining of sore losers.

Despite my opposition to this whining, however, I do feel that the Yankees exemplify a dilemma that desperately needs to be addressed. They, or any team for that matter, should not be permitted to spend massive amounts of money that other teams are clearly unable to match. Baseball needs a salary cap. Some people argue that a hard cap causes players to change teams too frequently, playing for whoever can afford them (see New York Jets). The current system in baseball is made out like bandits at this year’s World Championship in New York. The seven-member team collected one gold, silver, and two bronze medals. FYI die-hard fans, women’s wrestling becomes an Olympic sport this year.

David Beckham, soccer star from Real Madrid, has released his biography titled My Side. The 391-page book, printed in 11 languages, is estimated to earn Beckham 2.4 million dollars. Subjects included David’s view on former coach Sir Alec Ferguson and insight on his romance life with Posh Spice. Curious to see what language the latter part is printed in?

After his second loss to Sugar Shane Mosley, welterweight boxer Oscar De La Hoya has claimed he will hire lawyers to investigate the fight. De La Hoya believes that the judges’ ruling was incorrect after Mosley won the final four rounds and all three scorecards to win the fight unanimously. But when asked if a third fight was in store, De La Hoya responded, “No, he beat me twice. That’s it.”

WUSA, the women’s professional soccer league, has decided to call it quits. It took the league’s governors 3 seasons and 16 million dollars of debt to make their first good decision.

Continuing with women’s sports, the United States Women’s Wrestling Team is urging players with profits than win percentages, and the records of their teams take a backseat — and show it (though Steinbrenner clearly makes his fair share of money). Isn’t he acting as a model owner by doing everything in his power to help his team win? Maybe all the complaints against the Yankees are nothing more than the whining of sore losers.Summer in Greece.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2003

No different, and I’d much rather see a player leaving on those terms than abandoning their team for one that can offer twice as much money. I still feel guilty whenever Jason Giambi wins a game for the Yanks. With such a strong premium put on scouting and the minor leagues in baseball, such a cap probably wouldn’t work. It doesn’t seem right for a team to have to lose a player they’ve brought up through the system because a salary cap prevents them from re-signing them. But I don’t see any problems with a system similar to the one used by the NBA, which allows teams to exceed the cap to retain their own players. That way everyone benefits.

Whoa there, wait a second. Did I say everybody? I meant everybody but the players union. Why would they want to change a thing when a guy like Raul Mondesi can make $11 million a year? The voices of the fans were long ago ousted by the green devil on Donald Fehr’s shoulder. Don’t expect concessions any time soon from the guys who use steroid testing as leverage in contract talks. Baseball has far too many problems in dire need of correction, and the absence of a salary cap is one of the largest. Until the league and the players find a solution, send your complaints in the direction of The Union and The Commissioner, not The Boss.

Around the Sports World

Congratulating Reeves on his 200th victory. When the Falcons went up 17-0, the ad was printed. However, we all know the Falcons lost 33-31 and Reeves stands, at least until next week, with 199 wins.

German pole-vaulter Tim Cobinger won the World Athletics Final and felt the need to drop his shorts during his victory lap. His actions will reportedly cost him $5,000 in fines and his chance of centerfolding in Playgirl.

The England Deaf Rugby Union (EDRU) is encouraging those with hearing problems to get involved with the sport. The EDRU is putting together a team for the Deaf Rugby Nations Championship in 2004. Deaf rugby will not be an Olympic sport this summer, but look for the World Championships of Deaf Rugby in Wales 2005.

Hat’s off to Summerville, SC high school football coach John McKissick, who won his 500th football game last week. McKissick, who turns 77 next week, started coaching at Summerville High in 1952.

Falcons head coach Dan Reeves won his 200th NFL game on Sunday against the Redskins, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Prior to Sunday’s game, Falcon officials submitted a quarter-page ad congratulating Reeves on his 200th victory. When the Falcons went up 17-0, the ad was printed. However, we all know the Falcons lost 33-31 and Reeves stands, at least until next week, with 199 wins.

Lithuania won its third European Basketball Championship on Sunday, defeating Spain 93-84. High scorers were Arvydas Macijauskas and Eurelijus Zukauskas, two names you should remember.

Lastly, I thought I would help out the Tennessee Titans’ cause by saying how awful they are. After their 33-7 loss to the Colts, Jeff Fisher was quoted saying, “We’re an underdog. We’re no good. We stink right now, OK? We’re awful. Write that too. Write that as much as you can. That way we will play better.” You’re welcome, Coach Fisher.

For you sports fans...

DAVIS’ PICKS OF THE WEEK

WILDCAT GAME OF THE WEEK: Virginia Tech vs. Pittsburgh on Saturday will pit (10 a.m.) and Virginia (8 p.m.). If you have sports-related opinions you would like to print, e-mail Sports Editor Mike Giglio at migiglio@davidson.edu.