Pal
|
af

North Moore

Kappa Sigma, from page 1

“We don’t tolerate that sort of behavior. We’re just embarrassed.”

Shandley expects a decision on Kappa Sigma sanctions by Monday.

Individual Code of Responsibility trials will take place on a more extended timetable. According to the Red Book, the College can postpone Code of Responsibility hearings pending criminal investigations.

Student hearings will be held before the Judicial Committee, chaired by Assistant Dean of Students Ernest Jeffries and composed of Jeffries, three students from the Honor Council, and a faculty member from the Student Conduct Council.

The Judicial Committee can issue sanctions ranging from censure to community service to indefinite suspension.

Jake Charlson

Oscar Hernandez

Local media swarm around story

Local media outlets quickly picked up the story. News trucks and reporters flocked to campus over the weekend, and the story has been carried across the region since then.

As a school accustomed to garnering attention for national rankings and student accomplishments, officials are quick to stress the isolation of this incident in interviews.

Vagt is “hoping that it won’t affect [our] national reputation. I’m sorry that even regionally, and locally where it has received so much media attention, this will reflect badly on not just the students’ actions, but on the College.

“Our good name here regionally is so important. But we must be careful not to justify what can’t be justified.”

“It was a despicable act,” said Shandley. “I think everyone agrees on that.

“I’m sorry it’s reflected on Davidson College this way. Our students are better than that.”

Psychology of a fraternity stunt

By Matt Garfield
Editor

The desire to fit in with your peers can be powerful enough to cause severe lapses in judgment, says Dr. David Staton, Director of the College’s Student Counseling Center.

That dynamic may have been at work in the Kappa Sigma freshmen pledges allegedly involved in Friday’s incident, he said.

“People are tremendously influenced by being placed in a group. The tendency to conform goes way up. That group dynamic, that pressure to conform, is very powerful, and seems to be what’s going on in this circumstance,” Staton said.

Freshmen fraternity pledges are particularly vulnerable, because for 17- and 18-year-olds, the temptation to conform may be at its peak.

“Up until the seventh or eighth grade, parents are the definers of reality and the center of your life. To become your own person, you have to break away from your parents. The way you do it is to start looking to your peer group. There’s a tremendous desire to belong to a group,” he said.

“A person is looking to establish a connection on campus where he or she belongs. It’s a sense of identity, a sense of belonging, plus all the opportunities to do things that will be fun and enjoyable.”

Staton said the desire to satisfy authority figures, like a fraternity “pledgemaster,” can often make the problem worse.

“We’re very prone to be compliant to authority, even if it seems legitimate to us. What seems unreasonable at one point can be distorted. When there’s a group of people willing to do something, there’s a real tendency to do what an authority tells you. Even if a person thought it wasn’t a good idea, they may want to demonstrate to their peers a commitment,” he said.

Staton, although not familiar with the details of the allegations, said he would urge the Davidson community to forgive the accused students—if they ask for it.

“I do believe that it’s appropriate to forgive people even if they do bad things. That should only happen if those folks are contrite, not just because they got caught, but because they say ‘it was wrong.’ Then I think it’s appropriate to forgive them.

“I doubt there’s anyone on campus who hasn’t done something they regret.”

He’s our newest counselor!

Call X-2451

Brad Davis

Beta Kappa Honors, Virginia Commonwealth University

Mr. Davis is available for counseling appointments:

Tuesdays 4:30pm—7:30pm
Fridays 8:30am—12:30pm

Licensed Clinical Social Worker

Graham Hunter

by

Thomas Jeter
Steve Tolson
Andrew Mincey

Accused student criticized Court policy two years ago

The following e-mail was sent on Nov. 20, 2000 to all Davidson students by Kappa Sigma member North Moore and four other students not involved in Friday’s incident.

To the Student Body of Davidson College,

The attitude of the Administration towards Patterson Court has changed radically from past years to this year. While the rules have not changed, the position of the Administration towards their enforcement has dramatically altered. This has occurred with no explanation or stated motive by the administration. If the administration has an unspoken agenda for the future of Patterson Court, the student body has the right not only to have these plans made public, but the right to help shape them. Davidson has a long tradition of successful student government. It seems unfair for the Administration to deprive the student body and more specifically the Patterson Court Council of that voice now.

This position is not unfounded. Numerous houses have been placed under restriction for actions that have not been questioned by this administration in the past. Furthermore, traditions that have become an integral part of Patterson Court life are being condemned without the chance for any input from students. The timing of the Administration’s mandate leaves little time for discussion. The administration has dictated that entire houses will be held accountable for individual future members’ actions. Their position seems unreasonable.

One cannot expect the Administration to bow to every student request. However, it seems only fair that students have a voice and some role in the decision-making process. We should expect and demand this from our Administration.

If you support this statement, please forward it to President Vagt (bovagt) and Dean Shandley (toshandley). Your support would be greatly appreciated.