THE DavidsonIAN
photo by Peter Roady
Jenny Soldano ‘06 vies for the ball against a Dartmouth defender.

Women’s soccer falls to Dartmouth, tops High Point
By Erin DELK
Staff Writer

The women’s soccer team bounced back from Friday’s disappointing 3-1 home loss to Dartmouth with a come-from-behind 3-2 win against
High Point University Sunday afternoon.

In the first of the weekend games, Dartmouth stormed ahead with two quick goals within the first eight minutes of
play. Refusing to give up, the Wildcats stepped up their play, made some key substitutions, and twenty minutes later an
excellent switch of the field from Leigh Anne Hoskins ’04 set up Kara Koehrn ’06 for Davidson’s only goal of
the game. Unfortunately, Dartmouth struck early in the second half with another goal. As Davidson coach Kevin Hundley noted, “Once
Dartmouth pushed the lead back to two goals, they were content to just keep us from scoring and hold on
for the win. They’re a good team, and once they get up on you like that it’s tough to get
back in the game.” Koehrn agreed: “We just needed to finish our opportunities on goal a little better and concentrate
on defending corner kicks.”

Davidson regrouped for Sunday’s game and rallied back from a 2-1 halftime deficit to pull out the 3-2 victory over
High Point. The Wildcats scored first off a perfect corner kick from Anne Stephens ’07 to Robin French ’07. High
Point responded with two goals before halftime, and Davidson was back in the same position as Friday. The difference, Jenny
Soldano ’06 believes, was that the girls “did a much better job keeping our heads up when we were losing
two to one. Also, Anne Stevens really helped command the central midfield by winning the ball in the air and
looking to distribute quickly.” Stevens also racked up another assist with a second corner kick that found Koehrn’s head for
the game-winning goal. Hoskins headed in the second goal of the game in the 52nd minute off a cross from
Koehrn. For Koehrn, “the High Point game was really encouraging. Not only did we beat them on the scoreboard, but
we also dominated them on the field.” Hoskins agreed, and stated that the key to success was the amazing play
from the freshmen: “Anne Stevens had a huge game against High Point, and we had strong defensive efforts from Cameron
Hardesty and Robin French. They are really making a significant contribution so early in the season.”

The Wildcats take on Wake Forest at home on Tuesday at 7 pm, and, as Soldano states, “our team’s biggest
goal is to stay focused for the full ninety minutes, regardless of how we may be standing at a given
point in the game.”

SPORTS

Volleyball endures tough weekend in home Classic
Wildcats drop matches to Troy St., Memphis but rebound with close win over Radford
By Wilson McCrory
Staff Writer

The volleyball team returned home this weekend for the annual Wildcat Classic looking to build on the momentum gained in
last weekend’s two come-from-behind victories at the Robert Morris/Duquesne Invitational. Instead, the Wildcats struggled in the late stages of their
two losses, as they notched a disappointing 1-2 record in the four-team round-robin tournament.

The tournament opened ominously for the ‘Cats, as the team was shut out in a 3-0 (30-28, 30-28, 31-29) loss
to Troy State. In the second game of the match, Davidson and Troy State were knotted at 26, 27, and
28 before Troy State finally put the game away on back-to-back kills. In the third game, Davidson even managed a
28-27 lead on freshman Liz Williamson’s service ace, but successive attack errors by the Wildcats gave the Trojans a match-point
opportunity, and the eventual victory in the game and match. The defeat was a tough one for the Wildcats, not
so much because of the 3-0 victory by the Trojans, but because the score could have easily gone the other
way. The ’Cats were at most one point down in each of the three games played but failed to convert
when it mattered. As coach Tim Cowie said of the defeat, “It’s always discouraging when you lose a match, especially
a tight one [like that]. We have to overcome our unforced errors, and essentially that’s what killed us against Troy
State. It’s one of those matches that you would like to have over again, but can’t.”

Davidson followed up the Friday-night loss with an early Saturday match-up with Radford and appeared to have bounced back from
the defeat that took place little more than twelve hours before. Davidson showed the late-game poise in the first frame
that had been missing earlier, as Rachel Gleed ’06 paced the ’Cats to a late 9-0 run behind five consecutive
service aces. Latisha Chapman ’04 again stepped up for the Wildcats as she has so often in the early season,
registering 20 kills, 6 blocks, and a solid .341 attack percentage in the contest.

In the night-cap against Memphis, however, any momentum gained against Radford quickly dissipated. Memphis jumped all over the Wildcats in
the first game, posting 18 kills and a .594 attack percentage in a 30-20 win. Davidson did manage to answer
back in the second game, as it opened up a huge 19-10 lead and held off a late Tiger rally
for a 30-26 win. Unfortunately, the second frame proved to be an aberration, as Memphis rolled over the Wildcats 30-15,
30-17 in the final two games for a 3-1 win. Memphis finished with three players withDouble-digit kills, including Tiarra Gilkey
with 20, and an overall team attack percentage of .415. Davidson, on the other hand, had 29 fewer team kills
and finished with a paltry .102 attack percentage. Jenny Mills '07 led the Davidson attack with a .286 percentage, but
team leader and Southern Conference Player of the Week Chapman struggled against the Tigers with 16 errors and only 11
kills. “[The opposition] keyed on [Chapman] all weekend,” according to Cowie, “[and] the thing that will make her better is
to realize this and not get frustrated with it, [and instead] take that as a personal challenge to overcome the
opponent.” Overall, the Wildcats simply appeared outplayed in the final match of the tournament, as Memphis dominated the net throughout
the match. Davidson’s offense also appeared particularly sloppy in the later stages of the match, with several digs and sets
being uncharacteristically misplayed.

Cowie did find hope in the second match, however, commenting, “We know we can play at a higher level [because
of our play in the second game]. The question remains, will we be able to do that night in and
night out? We were disappointed because we saw what we were capable of but didn’t maintain that level throughout the
match. That will come with time.” Overall, it proved to be a trying weekend for the ’Cats, as Coach Cowie
added that “it can be frustrating that we are not improving at a quicker pace.” Still, he believes that “we
are heading in the right direction. I think that we realize that we are improving.” Despite the tough showing in
the match against Memphis, Chapman was the lone Wildcat named to the All-Tournament team, her second such honor in little
over a week. Next weekend, Davidson (3-4) will look to regroup and reach .500 again at the Jacksonville Invitational against
Jacksonville State, Evansville, and Belmont.

New turf field lures big-name field hockey opponents
By PETER ALLISON
Sports Editor

Without a doubt, the biggest and most welcomed addition to Davidson field hockey this fall has been the new turf
field, located out beyond the right field fence of the baseball diamond. In the past, the women had played all
home games on grass and been forced to adjust to the turf surface for many away games. This season, the
significant improvement in the playing field has infused the women with both a high level of excitement about the upcoming
season. It has also led to a most ominous fall schedule.

When asked about new aspects for the team this season, coach Lisa Thompson immediately mentioned the field and the ways
it would change, albeit improve, the team outlook. On being one of the later Division I teams to change to
the surface, Thompson said, “The order to catch up with the other schools more accustomed to it.” Captain Kathleen Fenn
’04 went on to explain how the turf should improve the team’s play: “[The turf] has made the team faster,
quicker. I believe we are one of the fastest teams in our league and overall it has made the game
cleaner, much faster, much more smooth, and [allowed] more finesse.”

So what does this mean for Davidson field hockey? As far as Fenn is concerned, it has “brought the program
up to a new level.” Thompson concurs, saying, “Davidson had everything to offer; the turf wraps that up, it finishes
the picture.” From a coach’s standpoint, the turf greatly helps recruiting, and Thompson hopes to follow this year’s class of
five freshmen with as many as eight recruits for next season. With one of the newest playing fields around, those
larger schools no longer hesitate to commit to playing at Davidson. This year’s schedule houses such teams as Duke, North
Carolina, and defending national champion Wake Forest.

While the team is off to a rough start, having failed to win a game in their first three attempts,
Fenn is not intimidated by the schedule. She believes those games will be a great learning experience, and in her
new leadership role, she has hammered home the philosophy of taking one game at a time. Thompson elaborates, saying, “In
those games, you have to be realistic and smart; you have to create the pace of the game, and keep
your composure. Those are great opportunities to earn respect; that’s what they are about, earning respect.” Such situations have occurred
in the past, and Fenn pointed to last season’s 3-0 loss to Wake Forest, in which Davidson took pride in
keeping the game close against a roster compiled of scholarship athletes. These previously mentioned home games against top schools have
injected the team with renewed energy for which the turf is mainly responsible. As Thompson says, “[those other schools] would
refuse to play on the grass.”

So far, the new players are progressing quickly. Though the jump from high school to Division I is obviously a
large one, Fenn states that the freshmen continue to improve. Thompson describes them as having “lots of speed and game
sense,” while she admits only some will have an immediate impact. Still, the team as a whole is far from
where they hope to be. Thompson does not hesitate to say that “the team has not played to their capabilities;
they have lost games they should have won. They know what their potential is [and] have to work hard to
achieve it.” She maintains, however, that her team remains focused. Whatever the case, the new turf and impressive schedule leave
Fenn excited to make “[field hockey] a premiere women’s sport” at Davidson.
