(One of) the great sports debates

Last weekend I came to a unique crossroad, one that, as Robert Frost would be disappointed to hear, did not have a path less traveled. In fact, for all intents and purposes, both paths seemed to be equally traversed by sports junkies worldwide. At this divergence, I was faced with two remarkably perplexing questions—questions arguably as timeless and thought-provoking as the immortal artificial turf or natural grass debate. The first was how to spend a leisurely spring day, by either fishing or attending a horse race; and the second was determining if either of these events actually qualifies as a sport.

Ultimately, I chose the tranquility of a rippling Carolina creek over the mayhem of the frat-boy infested Carolina Cup, but that does not exclude horseracing from the forthcoming discussion. We must, of course, begin by examining both these activities in the context of our times. After all, what our ancestors may have considered a sport would not necessarily qualify today (did you know “climbing the rope” was an event at the 1896 Olympics?).

My first thought was that both fishing and horse racing are on ESPN, and that alone usually means the event in question is an athletic contest of sorts. But then it occurred to me that ESPN also broadcasts the National Spelling Bee, and thus the network was immediately disqualified as a legitimate barometer of sport-worthiness. And so, still searching for an answer, my thoughts then focused specifically on horseracing.

When ESPN’s SportsCentury selected Secretariat as the 35th best athlete of the 20th Century, many people were upset that a horse made the list (and the top 50, for that matter). But you must consider what, exactly, defines an athlete. Merriam Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary identifies an athlete as “a person who is trained or skilled in games requiring physical strength, agility or stamina.” The emphasis here is clearly on “person,” but that definition needs some slight modification. An athlete, to me, is any creature (something with an actual pulse) that knowingly and willingly competes in an athletic event. As such, Secretariat and all racing horses should be considered athletes. After all, no one is actually forcing these animals to run (all that whipping and kicking should be considered coaching, not abuse); and, as more convincing proof, the horses have no real incentive to beat one another to the finish line. To paraphrase Jerry Seinfeld, the horses get the oat bag regardless if they win or lose, and so for an animal like Secretariat to win on such a consistent basis (including the Triple Crown) proves that there is more motivating these horses than what awaits them back at the stable.

Of course, we can’t ignore the gambling aspect that has come to define the horseracing landscape. Odds are given for each horse to win, thus confirming that, for one reason or another, some horses are better athletes than others. You may argue genetics (race horses are often the product of two proven winners), but the same can be said about humans. And so, it was decided that, by virtue of pitting athletes against one another in a competitive atmosphere, horse racing is, indeed, a sport.

Satisfied with my conclusions, my thoughts turned to fishing and its candidacy. There exists a theory (albeit not a popular one, or one accepted by most people) that nothing can be considered a sport if you can’t pull your groin. Using this logic, though, golf wouldn’t qualify, and we all know that’s not right. Anyone who can pull a groin swinging a golf club is simply doing it wrong; and anyone who thinks golf isn’t a sport should try breaking 100 at nearby Mallard Head (beware of the cats).

Perhaps the only reason fishing has even entered this debate is because it involves physical activity and some people do it better than others. But, I argue that mowing lawns requires physical activity and some people are more skilled than others (maneuvering around trees and concrete is no simple task). On Saturday I learned that fishing, much like basketball and public speaking, is not exactly my forte. And looking over at my friend, who hasn’t broken a sweat in well over two years, reeling in all sorts of fish, I began to seriously question my manhood. Seeking justification for this devastating blow to my ego, I immediately deemed fishing an activity, and not a sport. Sure, this may not be a fair assessment (or is it?), but this is my column and I can say whatever the hell I want. The fact is fishing developed as a survival technique (kind of like fire-building), and while it has grown into a leisure activity for rich men from Boca Grande, it is by no means an actual sport.

Perhaps the best way to characterize fishing is as a combination of chess and knitting. Hear me out. There is plenty of strategy involved in fishing (much like chess), as one needs to discern where the fish actually are and, once that has been accomplished (which, as I learned, may be never) figure out the best method to catch these slippery critters. As for the knitting comparison, this is not to degrade fishing by any means, but I couldn’t think of anything else that required simple trained muscle movement, much like casting a rod and knitting a sweater. Anyone can, of course, cast a rod (it’s not exactly rocket science) but in order to avoid obstacles (namely trees and other fishermen) and land your fly in the right spot, you must develop a fluid technique and train your muscles to respond accordingly. Yeah, every sport requires muscle memory, but let’s be serious: flicking your wrist is not the same as hitting a baseball or skating on ice.

Many (if not all) of you will disagree with what I have said; but that’s the beauty of sports—they give us something to talk about. What I can say about fishing, though, is that it’s the perfect way to spend a mindless afternoon. Nothing beats the great outdoors, and I would rather spend three hours wading around a beautiful stream (even if my legs go numb after five minutes) than watch athletic animals run circles around a track.dirt track as 70,000 drunk kids cheer for their favorite horse, which had probably run three races earlier.

By JOHN HEIMBURGER
Special Contributor

Three out of four ain’t bad. Two weeks ago, in this space, I predicted that Kansas, Syracuse, Texas, and Kentucky would be the four teams to advance to New Orleans. Only a superhuman performance—a 29 point, 11 rebound, 11 assist triple-double—by Marquette’s Dwyane Wade and an unfortunate ankle injury to Kentucky’s best player, Keith Bogans, stood in the way of bracketological perfection.

Another accurate prediction from the previous article was the overall weakness of the ACC. Watching Maryland falter down the stretch to remove that conference from contention nearly brought tears of joy to my eyes. I hate to be such an aggressive opponent of one conference, but I find the ACC getting in the way constantly during the college sports season. And no, I’m not just talking about the comically bad basketball coverage RAYCOM sports provides. If you watched any of the ACC tournament, and were looking for scores from other conference tournaments, you understand where I’m coming from. They weren’t available. Not once during either ACC semifinal were scores from other games released. This is just a lack of common courtesy towards the viewer. Of course, since I love college basketball, I continued to watch in spite of myself. I would rant about regional coverage in college football and being forced to watch Wake and Duke pretend to play football when there are far more interesting matchups on, but that’s for another time.

Now to some Final Four analysis. Whichever coach cuts down the nets on April 7 will be doing so for the first time. Roy Williams and Kansas need this one. The first semifinal pits a senior-laden Kansas team against Tom Crean’s Marquette Golden Eagles, and the aforementioned Dwyane Wade. Wade is the best player in college basketball right now. I don’t care what anyone has to say about TJ Ford (he’s a great player, don’t get me wrong), but Wade’s performance thus far in the tournament has been absurd. Look for Kansas to stick Keith Langford on Wade, and look for Langford to have a long day chasing Wade through screens and along the baseline. However, expect Nick Collison to have another enormous game as he’s done throughout the tournament, and for Kirk Hinrich to neutralize Marquette point guard Travis Diener and hit some threes in a game where Kansas prevails late.

Texas and Syracuse should play a very physical game in the second semifinal with Syracuse using many variations of the 2-3 zone that made Oklahoma look helpless in the East regional final. Oklahoma did not have TJ Ford. Ford is the quickest point guard in the nation, and will be able to penetrate the seams in Syracuse’s zone, and kick to the plethora of outside shooters that Texas features. He can also beat the Syracuse defense down the floor and create scoring opportunities before the zone can get set. Texas will have trouble matching up with Syracuse freshman Carmelo Anthony defensively, but the Longhorns will not give up the 11 offensive rebounds that Oklahoma allowed Syracuse. James Thomas is a monster on the inside: he’s current Texas Tech coach and former Indiana legend Bobby Knight’s self-proclaimed “favorite” player, which speaks to his intensity and fundamental play. Look for Texas to make it an all-Big XII final on April 7.

To keep it short, Texas will be looking for revenge in the title game, having lost at Kansas during the regular season. In that one, Nick Collison put on a 24-point, 23-rebound clinic that brought Dick Vitale to his feet in applause when Collison fouled out in the final minute. Ford will be a problem for Kansas as he was in the first matchup, but expect Kansas’ senior leaders, Hinrich and Collison to bring Roy Williams his first National Championship. This is their second final four appearance in succession, and we saw Maryland’s seniors take Gary Williams to the promised land last year in a similar situation. The Jayhawks will have their first title since the 1988 team of Danny and the Miracles, coached by Larry Brown. And all of Lawrence, Kan., rejoices.

Dillon paces golf squad again
Koernke, Friedell finish just behind freshman

By Lewis PERRY
Staff Writer

The Davidson golf team placed 16th by shooting a three-round total of 931 this past weekend at the Bradford Creek Intercollegiate in Greenville, N.C. Once again, Tim Dillon ’06 was the top finisher for the Wildcats. Dillon carded a three-round total of 232. Teammate Dan Koernke ’05 matched Dillon with a 232 for the tournament as well. Dillon and Koernke finished in a tie for 53rd place overall.

“I don’t think I played that well, but I plan to play better in the next tournament,” Dillon said.

Ben Friedell ’06 finished a mere one shot behind Dillon and Koernke with a 233. Friedell placed 60th in the tournament. Peyton Gallagher rounded out the top scorers for the Wildcats by firing a 236. The Wildcats are unhappy with their performance in the Bradford Creek Intercollegiate but hope to bounce back strong. UNCW won the tournament for the third straight year posting a final score of 881. Host ECU finished third overall with an 894. The Wildcats finished behind Southern Conference rivals Furman, Wofford, and UNC-G. Wofford placed fifth overall by carding a three-round total of 897. ECU’s Jonathan Hill won the individual crown, shooting an even-par 216 for the tournament. Hill needed one playoff hole to win the tournament outright from Dale Ketola of Coastal Carolina and Tony DiBitteto of UNC-W.

Despite a disappointing tournament, the Wildcats are looking ahead. “Nobody really stepped up this weekend, but we hope to come on strong at the end of the season at Wofford and then the Southern Conference Tournament,” Dillon said. The Wildcats have one more match left in the regular season before the Southern Conference Tournament begins. The last regular season match for the Wildcats is the Wofford Invitational on April 11-12 at Carolina Country Club in Spartanburg, S.C.