_PERS Staff Editorial Davidsonian 101_

Last week’s editorial generated some of the most positive student response and negative administrative response this staff has ever seen. Director of Auxiliary Services Richard Terry’s letter (at right) suggests the Sept. 3 editorial failed to provide sufficient context about Union Cafe operations, a complaint first brought to the editors from high-level school administration. Additionally, administrators objected to the language used, particularly terms like “for-profit” and “stealing.” Our peers’ comments on the editorial, however, affirm that our piece voiced what a lot of people were thinking. No one feels cheated because of our editorial; rather, student frustrations were manifested in what we wrote.

Students made meal plan decisions based on precedent. They expected to use meal plan equivalency to purchase anything they wanted in the Union Cafe. The policy driving some students’ meal plan purchasing decisions changed without warning. Such abrupt reversals—particularly when made with little or no student input—naturally make students feel robbed. Rather than feeling attacked or victimized when students voice frustrations, administrators should examine the source of such frustrations. Subjects who do feel attacked or victimized, of course, should respond. People often complain about the Davidsonian. And that’s fine. But it’s far more constructive to be complained to rather than about.

Before issues were raised about last week’s editorial, we initiated a semester-long self-study designed to improve content and coverage. The first step of this study happened when Subject Satisfaction Surveys went out to the people and/or organizations featured on the front page of last week’s issue. Respondents were asked to rate their interaction with Davidsonian reporters, to verify the accuracy of information and quotations, and to comment on the balance of the stories. Of course, no one needs a survey to comment on our coverage. This page in particular is designed to voice reader opinion. Our newspaper is a public forum for a community that stresses interaction and communication. If you have a comment or complaint about anything in this paper—be it a story, editorial, column or cartoon—this is the place to voice it.

Managing Editors: Caroline Hauser, Colin Eagan
News Editors: Amee Patel & Brandon Carroll
Arts & Living Editors: Derek Loh & David Schmader
Sports Editors: Peter Allison & Mike Giglio

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2003

Ali Fitzgerald: "Like The Month? Actually, It's The Year."

Cafe not motivated by ‘almighty dollar’

Some members of the campus community have expressed unhappiness about the recent decision to alter the existing meal equivalency program at the Union Cafe. While we would like to give customers everything they want, sometimes in order to manage resources responsibly we have to make decisions that will not necessarily be popular with everyone. Dealing with the inevitable complaints comes with the territory, but it is disconcerting when they appear to be built on the perception that Cafe policies are motivated exclusively by profit. The Union Cafe is not operated as a “profit center.” No individual that works on the Cafe staff and no manager at any level in Auxiliary Services benefits personally through bonuses or commissions based on its financial performance. Further, noOutside entity or corporation benefits from the Cafe’s bottom line. The Cafe is self-operated by Davidson College and its employees are Davidson College employees. The mission of the Cafe is to provide great service, food quality, menu variety, and pricing while responsibly managing its budget. The Cafe is expected to cover all of its costs — labor and benefits, product expense, utilities, consumables, accounting support, etc. — so that funds do not have to be siphoned off from other college needs to keep it afloat. Should the Cafe finish a fiscal year with surplus income, this income reverts to the general college budget for use in areas where it is needed.

Each of the past two years in the new Campus Center, students and staff have seen vast improvements in the quality and breadth of offerings at the Cafe. Coincidentally, in each of these years, the Cafe has only managed to finish in the black by diverting income designated for long-term replacement of equipment and future renovations (funds that any responsible business accrues) to cover costs. In other words, while the Cafe broke even on paper, it did so only at the expense of future improvements.

With respect to the recent change in the meal equivalency program, it may be helpful to note that most colleges do not allow this transfer of plan use between dining units and that Davidson only permitted it beginning about five years ago in an effort to allow students who had unusual schedules to have a later dinner-time option. Initially, the equivalency was limited to items that constituted “meal entrees.” The limitation was imposed to make sure that meals in a plan that were priced based on Vail Commons production costs did not get traded for products that had very narrow margins. Allowed to occur on a large scale, this type of revenue transfer would eventually force Vail to consider diluting its program by reducing menu variety, reducing hours, or purchasing lower quality foods.

The meal plan equivalency restrictions were relaxed two years ago, but as Campus Center and Union Cafe activity has increased dramatically since then, the concern about the impact on our overall dining program resurfaced. This prompted the reintroduction of restrictions on the equivalency. And at the risk of trivializing how important certain foods are to certain people, we believe a hard look at the list of restricted items will show it to be a very modest change.

We are very proud of the program at the Union Cafe, and I am particularly proud of the personal investment each member of that staff makes every day to serve students, faculty, and staff. Certainly, there will always be room for improvement and I believe we have proven that we are willing to listen carefully to customer concerns and wishes. But there should be no mistake that the program and the employees at the Cafe are motivated by their earnest desire and commitment to provide the best service and product they can while covering costs, not in pursuit of the almighty dollar.

Richard Terry
Director of Auxiliary Services

---

AND NOW A DOSA’ FILOSA

YOU DO REALIZE COLLEGE CLASSES ARE JUST A SEMESTER LONG?

OH - THAT'S WHY WE'VE COVERED?

WITH LAURA FILOSA

---

