THE DAVIDSONIAN

Band shows potential on its latest effort

By Curtis SCHMADER
Arts & Living Editor

Aesop Rock first gained prominence in the alt-rap scene around 2001, when he released his sophomore album “Labor Days” on the respected indie label Definitive Jux. Aesop’s rapping took center stage on that record, as he and co-producer Blockhead laid down tracks that worked well as subdued backdrops for his rhymes. The beats on “Labor Days”—contemplative, spare, and laden with sampled woodwinds—have given way to a dense electro stew on Aesop’s latest album, “Bazooka Tooth.” The album does feature a one-man arsenal of a rapper, but the real guns come out in the production—done this time by Aesop, Blockhead, and Def Jux impresario El-P. The presence of the latter helps explain the density of the backing tracks, since El-P’s production jobs for himself and others traditionally have filtered samples and drum beats through layer upon layer of machine-like buzz and distortion.

A hip-hop soldier in the grand tradition of producers like Public Enemy’s Bomb Squad, El-P uses technology to construct the most urban musical aesthetic imaginable. The sounds on “Bazooka Tooth” are the sounds of man’s own machinery overwhelming him. This style of production makes for music that is, ironically, difficult for listeners to plug into. The first half of the album embeds Aesop’s rapping in so much post-industrial hum and white noise that the signals common to many styles of American popular music (hooks, a steady beat, verses and choruses) get lost in the fray.

Aesop Rock’s ‘Bazooka’ takes time to find its target

Snippets of Aesop’s hysterical flow emerge, but for the first several songs they work at cross-purposes with the chugging beats. On these songs, the best of which include the title track and “No Jumper Cables,” El-P and Aesop Rock create music that is impressive, but also purposefully, almost pathologically resistant to listening. “Cameras or guns, one of y’all gonna shoot me to death,” Aesop spits early on, neatly summing up his anxieties over even limited exposure to a wide audience. As befits a rapper so bent on weaving the obscure and arcane into his lyrics, Aesop Rock seems uneasy at the prospect of his private art becoming a banal public form. Not that he needs to worry—not many listeners would describe “Bazooka Tooth” as “accessible.”

Despite gestures toward consciousness on “Babies With Guns” and the excellent “11:35,” Aesop is at his best when he lets his rapid flow express mostly his own obsessions. Perhaps that’s why the first half of the album feels forced; an artist with a bazooka tooth like Aesop Rock’s shouldn’t have his voice submerged in El-P’s fascinating, yet at times inappropriate production.

As it turns out, the track on which El-P appears as a guest MC gives the album an unexpected boost. “We’re Famous” finds Aesop and El-P defending their confrontational aesthetic against the attacks of a vaguely defined cabal of hip-hop “traditionalists.” Minimally produced, with a squealing synthesizer chord as a hook, “We’re Famous” is a diatribe with an undeniable groove. And for a few minutes you can actually hear most of what our reluctant semi-star is saying.

On the album’s remaining songs, Aesop steps to the forefront of the fractured aural landscape as his verbal flow begins to circle more closely around the beat. There’s even some old school Beastie Boys-style interplay between Aesop and Def Jux label-mate Mr. Lif on “11:35,” a collection of vignettes that the two rappers offer up as lurid urban parables. By the end of the album, Aesop’s talents as an MC are even clearer than they were on “Labor Days.” Here’s hoping that they continue to develop.

ON THE CATWALK

How many free meals did you get during Family Weekend?

My not-so-typical weekend at a Texas debutante ball

It’s either two or three o’clock on Sunday morning - I don’t know. Time is all so confusing. What I do know is that I’m eating my second Krispy Kreme doughnut and I am wearing fabulous shoes. A soiree such asThis never would occur at Davidson. No. I’m at the Ridglea Country Club in Fort Worth, Texas celebrating my cousin’s debut into society. She’s barefoot now but has made it through the evening without ruining her gigantically poofy white skirt. I must admit that my cousin’s dress is the best of all the debs’, but maybe I’m just being prejudiced. And boy, can she bow. At least that’s what Momma said. I couldn’t see a thing from where I was standing. But how did I get there? 

Fort Worth (as old and historic as it is, ancient for Texas) is home to two societal clubs: Steeplechase (that’s the men’s club) and Assembly (that’s the women’s). Both clubs annually present girls into the Fort Worth social circle. According to my brother (he’s in Steeplechase, as were my father and grandfather and...), Assembly is stodgy compared to Steeplechase. From my own experience, Steeplechase throws a kick-ass party. Originally, these presentations were a type of bridal auction, but now they’re just a reason for families to parade their daughters around, spend at least a hundred grand, and throw a bunch of parties that are bound to get every guest bombed.

This is how my night progressed: Miss Hodge and escort enter Ridglea Country Club and immediately find the Tekstar-Daniel family surrounding my cousin Lauren Daniel and ooh-ing about her dress. Miss Hodge and escort find brother, Daniel Hodge, nervously searching for an open bar. Miss Hodge’s mother and her escort arrive. “Momma’s dressing risqué tonight!” Miss Hodge wishes both Lauren and Daniel “good luck” with the presentation and waves them off behind the stage. The bar opens. Miss Hodge watches Grammommy down half of the Cuba Libre in Miss Hodge’s hand.

REAL LIFE HAS NEVER BEEN SO ANIMATED

Student Pricing with Valid College ID
Online Ticketing Now Available
16 Wide Curved Screens
DTS Digital, Digital Surround

The Harvisons, family friends, crash Steeplechase and Miss Hodge is very proud. Grammommy is escorted to the roped-in seated area. Miss Hodge waves from afar. Presentation begins. Girls march out, bow, receive applause, are met by tuxedoed escorts, and make their way down the aisle. Crowd comments on debutante’s dress. Lauren marches out, bows (oh, how graceful it was!), is met by Daniel (that’s my brother), and makes her way down the aisle. Suddenly, after about twenty minutes, the Presentation ends and the party begins. Breakfast is served. K.C. and the Sunshine Band play. Grammommy dons a feather boa and glow-in-the-dark necklace. Momma attempts to set Miss Hodge up with a much older boy (maybe even a man!) and scurries off to dance with escort. Miss Hodge is uncomfortable and leaves, only to run into childhood fiancé who continually reminds Miss Hodge of her incessant proposals. K.C. and the Sunshine Band end their set. Another band begins. They are way better. Events begin to blur. Miss Hodge boogies with escort and is spun way too many times. Miss Hodge’s dress and hair begin to fall apart. Momma’s escort takes her home. Miss Hodge stays with her own escort and continues to boogie away. Cousin Lauren looks absolutely adorable and graceful. Miss Hodge is positively tired and is tired of Daniel nagging her to introduce him to a well-endowed friend. Krispy Kreme is served. Miss Hodge thinks: “Wow.”

And so, as ridiculous as debutante balls are and as glad as I am never to have been presented myself, I am proud of my cousin - she has magically become somebody. I am also particularly glad that I live in a town such as Fort Worth, where I will enjoy events such as this during the Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays and I will be matched up with whichever boys I checked off on the “most eligible bachelors of Fort Worth” list. Talk about a Blind Date.

Advance Tickets Now Available ALL THE TIME
Advance Ticketing At The Box Office
DTS Digital, Dolby Digital and Surround Sound