_Arts and Living Editor_

A force to be reckoned with has risen over the past two years in underground hip-hop: namely, the independent record
label Definitive Jux, which has introduced the inquisitive music fan to artists such as Mr. Lif, Cannibal Ox, Aesop Rock,
RJD2, and Murs. Masterminded by former Company Flow rapper El-P, Def Jux has provided talented DJs and rappers from around
the nation with a forum where they can translate their anxiety over living in George W. Bush’s America into dense,
atmospheric, and lyrically deft hip-hop. The dystopian view of the United States proffered by the Def Jux crew should be
required listening for those of us living in a college-town American dream. Following is a guide to some of the
label’s most engaging releases since 2001.

Cannibal Ox, “The Cold Vein”: This is the record that kicked off Def Jux’s two-year streak of album after excellent
album. “The Cold Vein” sets the standard for future releases on the label in many ways, with El-P’s dense, lurching,
atonal production and the oblique wordplay of MCs Vordul Megilah and Vast Aire. Their vocal flow is irregular—the raps rub
against the backing tracks and throw you off-balance, forcing you to give due attention to brilliantly non-sequitur lines like “You
got beef but there’s worms in your Wellington / I'll put a hole in your skull and extract the skeleton.”
Recommended tracks: “Raspberry Fields,” “Battle for Asgard,” “No Regrets.”

Aesop Rock, “Labor Days”: Certainly one of the most talented on the Def Jux roster, Aesop Rock has few rivals
in terms of rapidness and verbal dexterity. His piercing, nasal vocals may be off-putting upon first listen, but have some
patience and his waterfall-like delivery will wind its way into your subconscious. On “Labor Days,” Aesop Rock’s lyrics spiral from
working-class angst into heady word association, underscored by doleful beats that create a faintly unsettling ambience. Plus, he’s effective at
weaving a narrative when he has to; for a sample of his storytelling abilities, check out “Daylight” and “Coma.”

El-P, “Fantastic Damage”: Def Jux founder El-P’s “Fantastic Damage” presents the most challenging sound of any album in the Def
Jux catalog. El-P spits out his raps like venom as the beats underneath stutter forward, evoking the image of a
living machine as they wheeze with siren-like drones, pulsing bass, and the humming of what sounds like broken appliances in
the background. The lyrics are social criticism attacking everything from deadbeat dads to corruption within hip-hop; combined with the technological
nightmare of the backing tracks, they elicit a profound sense of alienation. Recommended tracks: “Stepfather Factory,” “Constellation Funk.”

RJD2, “Deadringer”: A DJ/producer hailing from Columbus, Ohio, RJD2 creates the...

---

“You can dance, you can jive, having the time of your life...”

By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

There’s no reason to criticize the Davidson Dance Ensemble. It’s grown from a small group to one of the largest—and
best attended—student performance groups on campus. Dancers and choreographers work hard all semester for only three concerts. And watching them
on stage, you can tell it’s fun and funny not only for us, but also for them. With Betsy Pinchak’s
and Catherine Foster’s opening words, this semester’s performances took on even greater meaning. Here are the dances that stuck...Here is
the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

in my head most. “Au Contraire”: A Tool song? Sure, why not? They had dancers that popped out of pillowcases,
too. One of the night’s more intense performances. “Puttin’ on the Ritz”: Tap, tap, tap. Energy and the concert’s best
synchronization. Enough high-kicks for a lifetime of groin-injuries number. Sean Gantt ’03: I got tired just watching his “traditional Native
American warrior society dance of Northern Plains Tribes” (from the program). “My Soul, The Other I am...”: Athena Stevens ’06
and Kendal Stewart ’06 performed a gentle, simple dance that, for too many people in the audience, redefined the concept
of limitations. “Cry Me a River”: More like, “Cry Me a River of Chairs.” Joy-Gerdy ’02 choreographed the 32 dancers,
each with her own seat, and it didn’t get sloppy. You slap that chair, girl. “Stuff Like That There”: Katey
Zeh ’05 tapped her way through this routine with enough chutzpah to have the stage to herself.

If you can beat these prices start your own damn airline! Mexico/Caribbean only $125 each way, all taxes included! Or
Europe for $179 one way. Book online www.airtech.com or (212) 219-7000.

gifted MC’s on the inrapatlargeinterms music out of nothing but samples, working in the tradition of musical collage artists such
as DJ Shadow and DJ Spooky. “Deadringer” mostly consists of drum breaks and bass pokes interlayered with borrowed film music,
instrumental atmospherics, bizarre vocal samples, and other found curiosities. These elements combine to form tracks whose structure makes them listenable
both as individual songs and as background music. Though most of the album’s vocal snippets are samples, the songs “June”
and “Final Frontier” feature guest turns from rappers Copywrite and Blueprint, respectively. Recommended tracks: “June,” “The Horror.”

Mr. Lif, “I Phantom”: Debatably the best album of the six profiled in this column, Boston native Mr. Lif’s first
full-length studio LP traffics in fractured funk similar to that of El-P’s “Fantastic Damage,” albeit with a somewhat lighter touch.
Here, futuristic synthesizers, robotic bass lines, and funky drum vast majority of his samples cohere into a groove that’s more
infectious than anything else on Def Jux—all the while retaining the sense of post-Cold War paranoia and distrust of government
that marks “Fantastic Damage.” Although he fantasizes about annihilating the entire planet on “Earthcrusher,” Lif also details smaller-scale feelings of
estrangement on the likes of “The Now” (absentee fathers) and “Live From the Plantation” (dead-end jobs). Recommended tracks: “New Man
Theme,” “Earthcrusher.”

Murs, “The End of the Beginning”: California native Murs may be the most conventional Def Jux lyricist, firmly rooting his
rhymes in tales of inner-city gang violence and its psychological ramifications, as well as in fondly recollected scenes from the
sweeter moments of urban life. The production on “The End of the Beginning” favors spare, steady grooves that seem almost
bouncy in comparison to the opaque backing tracks of “The Cold Vein” or “Fantastic Damage.” This style of production perfectly
suits Murs’s laid-back, West Coast-inflected delivery; next to the rest of the Def Jux MC’s, he sounds practically deadpan. Recommended
tracks: “Happy Pills,” “Last Night.”

What Do You Think? What was your favorite cartoon show as a child?
Katie McVane ’05 - “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.”
Nicole Mah ’05 - “Attack of the Killer Tomatoes.”
Graham Honeycutt ’06 - “My Little Pony” or “Care Bears.”
Courtney Ward ’04
