EI Te DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2003 VOLUME 94, NUMBER 15

Why are they digging through the trash?

Sophomore Ben Nelson joined 15 students in the waste audit.

Audit finds many students don’t care about recycling

By JOE TAYLOR
Staff Writer

“Usually, garbage is out of sight and out of mind once it enters the trash bin,” said Greg Harris '05. It was this reason, amongst many others, that sent Harris and 15 students plummeting into a dumpster outside Baker Sports Complex during the Environmental Action Coalition’s waste audit last weekend. Jessica Carlson, Elizabeth Pandolfi, and Caroline Hartridge, leaders of the EAC, also organized the event. Their goal was to assess how well the students, faculty, and administration properly disposed of waste. The results were not very impressive, said Harris.

Although volunteers were only able to search through 143 of the 216 bags of trash, they found 402 aluminum cans, 458 plastic bottles, 144 glass bottles and jars, 25 steel cans, and large amounts of paper and cardboard. All of these items are recyclable.

“The only thing you can really point to is a lack of student interest,” said Harris.

Pandolfi says the audit is a reflection of the nation’s lax approach to conservation. “I found out why the rest of the world denounces Americans as wasteful super-consumers. It’s true - the amount of recyclables that see Recycling, page 2

Senior priority, clustering highlight new RLO lottery

Groups with juniors will go to back of line to wait for apartments

By CAROLINE K. HAUSER
Managing Editor

Rising seniors will be the first to try out a new “pilot” lottery system for assigning Martin Court housing. After an informational meeting two weeks ago outlining Options A and B, and rising seniors were sent a survey, a compromise “Option C” was formed.

The new system, announced at SGA last week, will replicate residence hall lottery, with senior-only groups having priority and clustering allowed. Students interested in living in Martin Court housing next year must submit an application by noon on Mar. 18. RLO will then designate which apartments are to be filled by men and which by women. Groups interested in a five-person apartment (Building F) will go through lottery beginning at 6 p.m. on Mar. 18. Mixed-class groups may apply for these apartments, but, no matter what their lottery number, they will go through lottery after all senior-only groups have.

“People applying for five-person apartments should have a plan B in mind,” said Leslie Marsicano, Director of Residence Life. Similarly, students interested in four-person apartments will line up by lottery number, with mixed-class groups at the end of the line. Four-person apartment lottery will begin at 9 a.m. on Saturday, March 22. For both lotteries, two groups may cluster by averaging their total numbers.

Former Irish president will speak Monday

By KATHRYN WYLE
Staff Writer

Former United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Mary Robinson will visit campus on Monday for a speech in Duke Family Performance Hall at 7:30 p.m. Entitled “The Real Agenda of Human Rights,” the speech will focus on international tension, the needs of HIV/AIDS sufferers, malnutrition, and human rights violations. Prior to her pivotal role with the UN, Mrs. Robinson served as the first female president of Ireland from 1990-97. Mrs. Robinson has maintained a record of lofty standards in her political career.

Mrs. Robinson adopted a truly global perspective during her time in both offices. As president, she made Africa her chief international focus. The first to visit Somalia during the 1992 famine and Rwanda following the 1994 genocide, she earned a CARE humanitarian award for her staunch support of human rights.rights. To elicit domestic support for her human rights campaign, Mrs. Robinson drew an analogy between Ireland in the Great Potato Famine and developing nations today with their problems of nutrition, policy, and poverty. Historically regarded as an almost ceremonial position in the UN, Mrs. Robinson’s role evolved under her leadership into a socially conscious position with much to say to the world. As UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mrs. Robinson became the first High Commissioner to visit China, and she has since traveled all over the globe to such locations as Indonesia’s troubled province of Aceh, Yugoslavia, South Africa, Colombia, and Cambodia. She sought to demonstrate political motives need not be intrinsically linked to human rights, and to counteract the developing country view she has characterized as, “Human Rights are just a Western stick to beat us with.” Her work with the UN was, by its very nature, one of the whistleblower. As she has said, “I came into this job not to keep a job, but to do a job.” She left her office with a legacy of broad-based, non-partisan Human Rights efforts. Refusing to be bullied by any group or government due to its influence and reputation, Mrs. Robinson left behind an infrastructure and credibility. These assets to the office can only continue to aid the Human Rights’ cause should her successor stand similarly strong against opposition.

Lottery numbers, apartment applications, and off-campus housing applications will be available on Feb. 17. Students interested in off-campus housing must attend a meeting on Mar. 13. In deciding on this process, RLO officials sought input from students, SGA representatives, and residence life offices at other schools. About 23 percent of the junior class responded to an email survey about the system. However, “SGA leadership insisted that the survey results were not valid because people were given choices rather than asked what factors were important to them,” said Marsicano. Of the 98 juniors that responded to the survey, 71 favored Option A, 25 favored Option B, and two expressed no preference. Reasons given for Option A preference cited the time cost, importance of senior-only preference, clustering, and consideration of behavioral record in housing decisions as benefits. Option B proponents place emphasis on autonomy, wanting students to choose their own apartments and—to some extent—neighbors. RLO hopes the new process incorporates the best of both options. “SGA is the group charged with representing the student body,” said Marsicano, “and SGA leadership was adamant that this was the will of the student body. Since RLO strives always to serve students, we’re trying it. We’ll see how it works.” To see how well it works, rising seniors will be asked to fill out surveys immediately upon completing the lottery process, and satisfaction surveys will be sent sometime in the fall. Other changes in campus housing for 2003-2004 include making all residence halls smoke-free (“residence halls” excludes Patterson Court and Martin Court) and changing Little to upper-class sub-free. Above all, stresses Marsicano, “Pay your Davidson bill. You can’t get your lottery number if your bill is not paid.”

INSIDE THIS WEEK
News 1-4
Meet the candidates for elected office, including president, vice president, and Union Board president.

Arts & Living 5-6
Our critics review “The Recruit,” starring Al Pacino, as well as Johnny Cash’s latest album. Also, we’ve got your spring break travel guide.

Perspectives 7-8
Is Davidson divided along gender lines? Our columnist ponders the question.

Sports 9-10
The Southern Conference basketball season is entering the stretch run. Complete coverage of the men’s and women’s teams.