6 THE DAVIDSONIAN :: NEWS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2003

Students propose expanding summer youth program
By MALLORY MACDONALD
Staff Writer

Summerbridge National, an educational summer program for middle school-aged students, might be arriving on the Davidson campus. In a meeting held with Ruth Pittard, a group of Davidson students gathered together to discuss a possible change in the existing Davidson program Leaps and Bounds into a sanctioned breakthrough site in collaboration with the Summerbridge National Program.

Summerbridge National provides an opportunity for college-age students to teach middle school kids throughout the summer. It is a national program and considered one of the most reputable programs in the United States. Davidson currently runs the Leaps and Bounds Program, started by alumna Liz Neiheisel. She worked for the Summerbridge program one summer and wanted to bring her experience back here.

Neiheisel’s intention was to create an environment here at Davidson that incorporates academics and other fun extracurricular activities for students interested in continuing academics during the summer months, modeling Leaps and Bounds after her experience at Summerbridge. In recent months, under the new leadership of Kate Meister ’05, the goal is to turn the Leaps and Bounds program into a collaborative site with Summerbridge, what is termed a breakthrough site.

At the meeting on Wednesday, some of the most important issues were discussed and new ideas brought to the table. Most importantly, the merger of Leaps and Bounds with Summerbridge and the establishment of a breakthrough site would require a larger number of Davidson students to get involved in summer programs in order to accommodate more participants. Also, the issue of financial support is a major concern.

The process is still in the very beginning stages of development, but as Jackie Protos ’04 said, “If all goes well, we hope to have a breakthrough site on campus for the summer of 2005. Still, the process is in the very formative stage, and we want to keep the best interest of Leaps and Bounds at heart, whether that be a breakthrough site or not.”

Leukemia and lymphoma society benefit this weekend
By JON KROPSKI
Special Contributor

The second annual Sigma Phi Epsilon Turkey Trot sponsored by Brixx Pizza will commence this coming Saturday, Nov. 22 at 9:30 am on the town green. Last year’s 5K event was a great success, raising over $3500 to benefit the Charlotte-Mecklenburg area Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, and this year’s race looks to be even better.

The 1st annual Turkey Trot was won by the political science department’s own Assistant Professor of Political Science Russell Crandall, and the defending champion will be challenged by even tougher competition this year. Prizes will be awarded for men and women in eight age groups. The first 150 runners registered are guaranteed a T-shirt, and all will be able to enjoy ice cream from Ben and Jerry’s after the race, along with a discount coupon to Brixx Pizza and other great favors as part of the registration package.

The entry fee is $12 beforehand and $15 on the day of the race. Once again, the proceeds will go to support the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society. Come on out and run, jog, walk, or crawl the 5K race. It'll be a great time for a great cause. Registration forms can be found in the Union, at local area businesses, or by emailing race director Brian Nickerson (brnickerson@davidson.edu).

The Davidsonian is currently hiring writers for the spring semester. Positions are available in all sections. For more information, email davidsonian@davidson.edu

Majors, from page 1
accounting for nearly 10 percent of the class. Berkey says this growth is why he now opposes double majoring and would vote in favor of disallowing the option. “I’ve changed my mind because of what I’ve seen. It’s gotten to be such a huge program,” he said. Faculty members voice concerns about doubleMajoring in addition to its increased popularity, other factors have signaled to faculty members the dangers of this option. Dr. Mary Thornberry, professor and chair of the Political Science Department, fears that the need to take required courses for a second major deprives students of gaining the “breadth and depth” of a liberal arts education. “The purpose of a liberal arts education is to open those doors, to get you to do things that you will never receive a formal education in again. I hate to see students shutting down these options,” Thornberry said. Dean of Faculty and chair of the Educational Policy Committee Clark Ross added that while a second major gives students an additional challenge, the danger remains that students are doing it for the wrong reasons. “Students get too worried about adding credentials,” said Ross. Director of Career Services John Adams said that adding a second major for the extra credentials was an unwise decision. “Employers never ask for a double major,” Adams said. “They are looking for balance in candidates. If double majoring takes away from other things, such as other activities and leadership roles, it actually makes the student unbalanced... Credential-wise, it’s a loss.” Dr. Dennis Appleyard, professor and chair of the Economics Department, while undecided on the issue, said there are potential benefits of double majors for a major such as Economics. Additional exposure to a complementary field could look powerful to graduate schools in Economics. “They can have value. If you do the right combination, you can reap the benefits,” he said. Dr. Shireen Campbell, professor of English and a faculty member of the Educational Policy Committee, agreed that while “breadth of education” was an issue, double majoring should still be an option. She said, “I don’t think we can dictate ‘good’ versus ‘bad’ reasons, so if the option is available, it is up to individual students to decide if and why a double major is worthwhile.”

Students respond to the potential restriction

For most students, particularly those considering or pursuing a double major, the idea of removing the option is unreasonable. Eileen Beardsley ’04, a Political Science and German double major, said, “I do not believe that students only pursue a double major for the extra credentials. What happened to the idea of just wanting to learn?” Alaa’ Odeh ’05 said she chose to double major in order to pursue two interconnected disciplines, not to build her resume. She said, “Being a double major in religion and political science gives me an opportunity to relate two fields that I am interested in through many ways.” Others asserted that rather than diminishing their liberal arts education, their second majors were boosting it. Garrett Monda ’06, a Math and Economics double major, said, “At graduation, one with a double major will have a deep knowledge of two subject areas rather than one, as well as a general liberal arts education as specified by Davidson’s core requirements.” Monda suggests other outlets to preserve the value of the liberal arts. “If the fear in allowing double majors is the detriment it may cause to a liberal arts education, the list of core requirements should be modified,” he said. A decision on the status of double majors will be reached by the end of this academic year, with the Educational Policy Committee presenting a proposal, either in the form of a report or a recommendation, on which the entire faculty will vote.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE Ambassadors

WANT TO BE A TOUR GUIDE?

The Office of Admission is conducting interviews for new tour guides. All students are eligible. New guides will begin work in January. Interviews will be held Nov. 20, 21, 24, 25, and Dec. 1 and 2. To sign up or if you have any questions, contact Khoury Ashooh '03 by phone (Ext. 2969) or e-mail (khashooh).

Want to showcase Davidson? Want a weekly reminder of why you love this place?