2 THE Davidsonian _ WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2003

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

10/13 Senior Apartments
Damage to Property
Crime Solved: Students were identified for damage to porch furniture and referred for disciplinary action.

10/21 Tomlinson
Larceny of Floor Mats
Unknown person(s) did remove floor mats from the entryway into Tomlinson Hall. No leads on the mat thieves at this
time.

10/26 Richardson
Larceny of Currency
Unknown person(s) removed currency from dorm rooms located in Richardson Dorm. In all, there were 8 different rooms that were
burglarized. This incident is still under investigation.

10/25 Ridge Rd.
Provisional DWI
Student did drive a motor vehicle while impaired. Student referred for disciplinary action.

10/26 Martin Ct.
Use of Marijuana
Known students were identified using marijuana in their apartment. Students have been referred for disciplinary action.

10/26 Belk
Suspicious Person(s) on Campus
3 identified males were seen in Belk Dorm with no affiliation with the college. Subjects were identified and removed from
campus by campus police.

10/25 Ridge Rd.
Unauthorized Use of Golf Cart
Unknown person(s) did use a college golf cart without permission. Perpetrators of this crime did donuts on campus grounds causing
damage to the grass and cart.

10/25 Delberg (Off Campus)
Assist Town Police
Campus Police Officers were called to assist Town Police in breaking up a party on Delberg Street. The party comprised
all Davidson College students, who were written state citations for underage drinking and aiding and abetting.

10/16 Hart
Larceny of Bicycle
Unknown person did remove an unlocked, unregistered silver mountain bike from the front of Hart apartment. No leads at this
time. The bike is valued at $300.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety.

Robbery, from page 1
up. It could have been our watches, our separate from the system. Code system, people outside the college are Walker
said, “For people who don’t go to this

First ever Muslim Student Association formed on campus
Organization hopes to clarify misconceptions of Islam
By AMANDA STEPHENS
Staff Writer

Davidson religious life has become more diverse this year with the formation of the college’s first Muslim Student Association (MSA).
Founded by Mujahid Idlibi ’04, the organization seeks to promote unity within the Muslim community on campus, and between Muslim
and non-Muslim students.

According to Idlibi, the MSA’s primary objective is to “promote peace, tolerance, and understanding amongst people of all faiths, regardless
of their religious convictions.” Clarifying misconceptions about the Islamic faith and Muslim people is another top priority of the MSA.

“[Islam] is not about male dominance and denial of women’s rights. It is not about bombs and book burning,” said
Faris Al Almazrui ’07. “In fact, the very first word which was sent to the Prophet Muhammed from God was
the word Iqraa’ which means read, which means learn, which means knowledge and not barbaric ignorance which the media image
of Islam conveys.”

Muslim representation in the media and American society is an issue of great concern to Idlibi, who serves both as
president of the MSA on-campus and as spokesperson for the Islamic Center of Charlotte.

“September 11 was a hijacking of Islamic faith,” Idlibi said. “Eliminating misconceptions, misperceptions and misunderstandings regarding the religion of Islam”
has become one of the MSA’s primary goals.

As part of its fight against discrimination, negative stereotypes and misinformation, MSA has vocalized its opinion of the USA Patriot
Act, criticizing the legislation as intrusive and inappropriately directed at Muslim Americans.

“We feel that the USA Patriot Act is an oppressive piece of legislation because it compromises, threatens, and undermines many
of our civil rights and freedoms afforded by the constitution,” Idlibi said.

Promoting peace and religious toleration on campus is another goal of the MSA. In fact, the root word of Islam,
salam, means “peace” in Arabic. Recently the MSA issued a statement condemning racial hatred with respect to the KKK incident
on campus. The statement read, “On behalf of the Muslim Student Association (MSA) and the Muslims at Davidson, I would
like to support, unconditionally, this initiative that condemns racism, hatred, and bigotry. Further, we would like to promote peace, understanding,
and tolerance. We would like to join in unison with EVERYBODY on our wonderful Davidson campus in doing the aforementioned.”

Currently, the MSA isOrganizing various activities to celebrate the month of Ramadan, which began last Sunday. Ramadan is the most
religious month in the Islamic calendar. Each day during Ramadan, Muslims fast from the break of dawn until sunset so
as to “attain discipline and self-restraint, and observe God’s commandments,” explains Idlibi. Because group prayer is encouraged within the Islamic
faith, the MSA hopes to secure a room on campus dedicated to prayer in the near future. The MSA would
also like to invite a guest speaker to discuss Islam in America. Idlibi said that by advocating peace, religious toleration,
and knowledge, the MSA hopes to make Muslim students “feel comfortable with being at Davidson, and at the same time
maintain their religious convictions.” In addition, the MSA aims to promote joint action between the different religions on campus. “As
a member of the Muslim Student Association I sincerely look forward to working with all the groups of different religious
affiliations, and to promote peace and unity within this wonderful community; as Islam is all about belief and faith in
God, peace, unity and love with all the different religions,” said Almazrui.

Fraternities delay bids under new regulations
By RACHEL EGAN
Staff Writer

Patterson Court rules regarding when bids may be given out to first-year men were changed this year. In past years,
fraternities were permitted to give out bids starting right after First Night Down; now, the bidding process must wait until
after fall break. Patterson Court Advisor Joy Hamm said the main reason for this change was “to give students more
time to get to know the fraternities, and show them it’s not just all about parties.” Fraternities have great leadership
and service opportunities and plans to help students scholastically as well, she said. Now a freshman’s decision to join a
fraternity begins after he has had a chance to settle into his academic, extracurricular, and athletic schedules.

Last year a task force was put together to investigate the bidding process. It was discovered that many freshman men
felt a lot of pressure if they didn’t get an immediate bid, and who really has an interest in us.”
In response to the controversy over the college community, to this school, what the first of its kind to happen
multiple bids, within the first week and a week-long surge of bidding parties, Neuman Walker encouraged students to take extra
precautions, including locking doors at night and reporting suspicious activity. He also noted that while the Davidson community might run
on an Honor during the middle of the day.

Under the new guidelines, freshmen have much more time to become acquainted with the different fraternities and decide which one
they like, without diminished time pressures. Patterson Court Orientation, another new addition to the bidding process this year, sparked freshman
interest in the fraternities. The orientation got a good deal of positive feedback, not only from freshmen, but also from
hall counselors and the houses themselves, said Hamm. Rob Neuman ’04, President of Fiji, called the new guidelines “an excellent
decision by the administration.” “We applaud the Patterson Court leadership for the changes,” he said, explaining that now the process
emphasized isn’t about choosing the first fraternity’s bid, but about choosing to be a member of the fraternity you actually
want. Said Neuman, “Fiji’s goal when we give a bid is to make sure we’re extending a bid to a
freshman who upholds the same values we do, Shayegan said.

This incident is not the heck is the Honor Code?” at Davidson though such break-ins are by no means a
usual occurrence. Five any more bids after that time, and thus felt pressured into joining a fraternity instead of appropriate
time to extend bids. finding one they truly wanted to be a member of, just because it was their only
bid. “I guess it depends on the fraternity, what they choose to do,” he said.
