Goneert Choir performance slated for Tuesday - Davidson College Concert Choir, conducted by Dr. Raymond Sprague and accompanied by pianist Patricia McBrayer, will perform Gabriel Faure’s Requiem, Benjamin Britten’s Festival Te Deum, and pieces by Brahms, Mendelssohn, and Distler. Free. 8 p.m. Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Call 704-894-2357 for more information.

Lifestyle Speakers’ Series Continues next Wednesday - Dr. Luoluo Hong will speak on “Beautiful Bodies, Beautiful Souls - Redefining the way we look in the mirror.” Participants will explore various sociocultural, physiological, and psychological factors that place women (and increasingly men) at risk for developing eating disorders. Fostering healthier body image, adopting effective ways for managing and expressing alternative means of building self-esteem, and becoming aware of the risks of excessive dieting and exercising are highlighted. Luoluo also discusses strategies for social change that individuals can implement and provides steps for confronting friends who have an eating disorder. Free. 7:30 p.m. Duke Family Performance Hall. Call 704-894-2188 for more information.

Spring Convocation to be held next Wednesday - At this annual event, there will be a presentation of student academic and service awards, the ODK Teaching award, staff and community awards, and graduate fellowships/scholarships. Newly established scholarships will also be announced. Free. 4 p.m. Duke Family Performance Hall. Call 704-894-2202 for more information.

DUMC pastor leaving for Charlotte church - The church announced earlier this week that Bishop Charlene Kammerer will appoint him to become the new senior pastor of Myers Park United Methodist Church in Charlotte, interestingly, the church in which James and his wife Lisa were married. His last Sunday in the Davidson pulpit will be June 15. His successor will be named next week. Associate Pastor Craig Kocher is also leaving the church to become Director of Religious Life and Assistant to the Chaplain at Duke, his alma mater. Kocher’s successor has not been named.

The following is a letter from Howell to the DUMC church community: The thought of leaving all of you who have meant so much to me here in Davidson makes me immensely sad. For twelve years we have enjoyed such a happy life, and my pride in you as a church family is huge. Our children know no other home. So between now and mid-June, we will be grieving. For me, as sad as I feel over leaving, I firmly believe that this is God’s call, God’s claim on my life, to take up work in a new place that hopefully needs me. We know that Davidson UMC...

Lecture, from page 1 - Dr. James Howell’s 12-year tenure as senior pastor of Davidson United Methodist Church ministry. Lisa and I are so grateful for the many ways you have shown us friendship and love, as well as across the globe. Last month’s videolink with students from the University of Baghdad stands out as one such event spearheaded by Zogby. Dr. Clark Ross, Dean of Faculty, said of the event, “I thought it was a great honor for our students that Dr. Zogby felt comfortable having them interact in such a public setting. One of the by-products of September 11 was that we interviewed across the nation for his expertise in issues related to the Arab world. All the while, he has taught two courses, The United States and the Arab-Israeli Conflict and The Middle East Conflict, with the same knowledge. Zogby said, “It’s been an extraordinary time to be here, with everything...going on in the Middle East. It’s given me time to get away and have a little distance from the daily battles of international attention. I became aware of the Middle East, but that awareness hasn’t necessarily increased our understanding. In that regard, Ross also praised Zogby’s impact on campus, saying his work at Davidson made him a perfect choice as the Batten professor. Ross said, “We like to see an interaction of public policy and journalism or the media [in the Batten professor]. In that sense, Dr. Zogby is the ideal. The fact that not only is he an expert in Middle East issues, but he is also somebody who is a spokesperson with his writing and other media outlets. He has been an ideal professor.” Over the past few months, Zogby has been - Dr. James Zogby it’s been a great opportunity.” Davidson is currently interviewing for next year’s Batten professor. Ross said, “There is a hope that the Batten professorship and the courses will soon be announced.” Tonight’s lecture will surely encompass the issues of international relations facing the nation today. Of his future plans, Zogby said, “There’s a war and a world out there, and I have to get back to them. But I’ll go back refreshed.”

Turtles & Snakes & Cats

Olin says, "I will continue to be strong and vibrant, for you are just the most superb congregation I have ever even heard about. I am very excited about the person who will follow me here as senior pastor. I lobbied the bishop for him to come, as he was my top choice by far. He has been a close friend to me for many years, someone I admire tremendously, a minister of great intelligence and compassion, faithfulness and good humor. He is fortunate, as are you, for your relationship in the years to come will be a thing of great beauty. Please keep me, Lisa, and our children, Sarah, Grace, and Noah, in your prayers, as we negotiate this major change in our lives, deal with our loss, and embark on a new adventure."

Photo courtesy of Dr. Michael Dorcas

Kristine Grayson ’03 (top) holds a box turtle during a recent biology field exercise, while J.D. Willson ’02 (below) shows off his snake-charming skills. Grayson and Willson won graduate fellowships from the National Science Foundation last week.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

4/2/03 Damage to Property Belk Parking Lot
Unknown person(s) damaged the side mirror of the victim’s vehicle while parked in the Belk parking lot. Damage is estimated to be approx. $200.

4/2/03 Damage to Property Faculty Drive
Unknown person(s) willfully took a College club car (golf cart) from the Union and drove it in a manner that caused damage to it. Estimated damage is approximately $600.

4/1/03 Damage to Property Patterson Ct. Eating House
Unknown person(s) willfully discharged a fire extinguisher in the pantry area of an eating house, rendering food products inedible. Total damage is estimated at $100.

4/4/03 Damage to Property Martin Ct. Parking Area
Unknown person(s) willfully damaged, by hit and run, a Volvo parked in Martin Court parking area without notifying the owner or campus police of the crash. Damage is estimated at $300.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety.