Looking to get away on the weekend? Try hitting the slopes.

Lucy Long: Weekend Traveler

Great skiing is a short drive away

Welcome to a new Arts & Living feature, the first in a series of travel and recreation advice guides by
Lucy Long ’04. Looking to get away for an afternoon or a weekend? Then this feature is for you.

Does our recent winter wonderland have you dreaming about skiing? If so, you’re in luck. With all the recent snow
in the Appalachians, typically underestimated East Coast and Southern ski resorts are ready to go. If you’re looking for either
a day trip or a full weekend of skiing, North Carolina and West Virginia are your best bets. Between Beech
Mountain, Sugar Mountain, and Snowshoe, there’s something for all levels of skiers and snowboarders alike.

Beech Mountain
www.skibeech.com

With our busy Davidson schedules, most of us only have time to squeeze in a day trip for skiing. If
that’s the case, Beech Mountain or Sugar Mountain is between two and a half hours drive outside Boone.

Beech Mountain offers 16 slopes with nine lifts and is the highest ski resort in North Carolina. A weekday lift
ticket will cost you $28 Monday through Friday, while Saturday and Sunday tickets are $45 for skiing from 8:30 a.m.
until 4:30 p.m. Weekday full ski rental packages are $16 and snowboards are $25; on weekends, ski rentals are $20
and snowboards are $30. There are also some great weekday deals: Monday, ladies ski and rent equipment free; Two for
Tuesday, two tickets for the price of one; and Retro Wednesday, the lift and rental prices are the same as
they were in the 70’s ($10 ticket, $7 rental). The main advantage of Beech Mountain is the higher elevation for
better conditions, and the free shuttle that runs from mid-mountain for those who don’t have a four-wheel drive vehicle and
can’t make it to the lodge.

Lucy Long

Sugar Mountain
www.skisugar.com

Sugar Mountain is also a good spot for a day trip. It maintains 20 slopes with eight lifts, making it
the largest resort in North Carolina with a 1200-foot vertical, offering more challenging trails than Beech. Weekday lift tickets are
$33, while weekend lift tickets are $49. However, they do offer a college rate for $26 on Monday through Thursday
with a valid student ID. Slopes are open from 9 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. A full ski rental package at
Sugar during the week is $16, and on the weekends is $19. Snowboard rentals are $29 seven days a week.

Snowshoe Mountain
www.snowshoemtn.com

For a complete weekend getaway, it’s worth the five-hour trek up to Snowshoe Mountain, West Virginia. Why? Let’s put it
this way, two things are less frequent here: intoxicated skiers and church youth groups recklessly barreling down the mountain. Snowshoe
contains 57 slopes within four separate skiing areas based on terrain type and difficulty level, accessible by 14 lifts. Snowshoe
contains two snowboard terrain parks and a snowskates park. The lift ticket rates Monday through Thursday are $45, and Friday
through Sunday is $53. However, when you book your accommodations through the Snowshoe central reservations, they often package the room/condo
with the lift tickets for extra savings. A two-day ski rental package is $49, while a two-day snowboard rental is
$72. However, if you book your equipment online, it not only saves you a few bucks, but also saves you
time.

For a more advanced skier/snowboarder, I assure you that the drive to Snowshoe makes all the difference in terms of
trail difficulty, weather conditions, and most importantly, the abilities of the other skiers/snowboarders on the mountain! There are many different
types of accommodations offered at Snowshoe, which are divided into areas around the lifts. For the cheapest beds, try the
Inn at Snowshoe in the lower mountain area. A Friday/Saturday night stay including a two-day lift ticket for a group
of four students in one of their condos will run about $177 per person. This includes use of their hot
tub and includes a free shuttle to the main village, but is a good six miles from town. Another option
for accommodations easy on the budget is the Spruce Lodge in village central. It is dormitory, no-frills type housing running
at about $155 per person for the two nights stay and a two-day lift ticket. Advantages to the Spruce Lodge
are that it’s close to the nightlife, and you can ski-in, ski-out right onto the slopes.

Davidson Outdoors is planning a Snowshoe trip this...weekend. Cost is $100 per person and includes transportation, lodging, lift ticket, ski
rental, one ski lesson, and lunch. To get you pumped and ready for the mountain, don’t forget to rent your
ski movie classics: Aspen Extreme, Ski Patrol, and of course, any Warren Miller film. Then dust off the boots, wax
up the skis, and hit the slopes!

Restaurant Review
Thai Marlai, Thai marvelous
Vegetarians rejoice: Nearly every item can be made without meat
By ANNA Lauzon & Curis SAID
Guest Contributors

The long-awaited opening of Thai Marlai in Cornelius finally occurred over winter break. Located between El Cancun and Bi/Lo in
Cornelius, the space is pleasantly decorated with Asian-style prints. Thai Marlai boasts a menu of over 60 items, almost all
of which can be prepared for vegetarians. All dishes are MSG-free. In this quiet, laid-back restaurant, the service is slow
but not inattentive. The wine list is extensive, covering almost every varietal with glasses costing around $4 and bottles between
$15-28. They serve the Thai beer Singha ($3.50) and Chinese Tsing Tao ($3) in addition to Heineken and Amstel Light
($3). We enjoyed the Thai iced coffee, a mix of iced coffee and condensed milk, but regretted that the $1.75
price tag did not include refills.

We started with soup, Tom Yum and Tom Kha. Both are heavily flavored with lemongrass and include mushrooms, various herbs
and spices, and galanga. As described by the menu, the Tom Yum, a rich broth, is slightly sour and spicy.
The Tom Kha is a coconut milk-based soup and much creamier than the Tom Yum. Both are available with shrimp,
chicken, or vegetables. The menu also included a clear bean-based broth served by the bowl ($2.50) or in a large
hot pot ($8.25). We enjoyed both, but agreed that it wasn’t the spiciest Tom Yum we’d ever had.

For an appetizer, we had the vegetarian roll, filled with carrots, tofu, and wrapped in cabbage. It was fried and
served with vinegar-based sauce with crushed peanuts. It was by far the biggest disappointment. The cabbage made the crispy exterior
soggy, and it was difficult to eat.

The delicious curries wowed us. Each was served with the option of shrimp, squid, scallops, beef, chicken, vegetables, or mixed
seafood. We had the Kang Kean Wan, a green curry in coconut sauce with eggplant, bamboo shoots, chili, and fresh
basil leaves, and Kang Dang, a red curry with similar ingredients, as well as green beans. The vegetables were especially
fresh and crisp. Basil formed the foundation of the vigorous dish, the Kang Kean Wan, which we ordered three-stars-extra spicy.
They were hesitant to heavily spice our dishes, as requested, and instead brought us a spice rack. It included pickled,
diced red chiles in vinegar, ground red pepper, sliced green chiles in vinegar, and red chili paste. And we were
satisfied.

The presentation was lovely, and the sophistication of the flavors matched the setting. Each curry was served in a blue
and white china bowl with Jasmine rice (we presume) served in a decorative, carved silver dish. We assume that the
search for the perfect china and place settings explains all delays they had in opening.

For dessert, we enjoyed lychee served over ice in a fruit syrup. The cold, sweet syrup brought out the flavors
of the fruit and enhanced the texture. It was fabulous. The rice custard couldn’t compare, and it reminded us of
salty oatmeal served with sweet egg custard.

We look forward to returning so that we can try some of their noodle dishes like Pad Thai (rice noodles
with peanuts, basil, and vegetables), Pad See Ew (rice noodles with basil leaves and chiles), Kway-Tiew-Lard Nar (fried rice noodles),
and the Ba-Mi Lard-Nar (egg noodles). They also have an assortment of stir-fried dishes and seafood, including squid and fried
fish with curry (in season). Every Monday, they announce the lunch specials, which often are off-menu items. Pad Thai is
always featured due to its popularity. If you enjoy one of these dishes, the chef would be happy to fix
it for you at dinner. Takeout is available, but paper menus are still in the works. Entrees range from $6-10.

All in all, we enjoyed the meal and dream of joining ranks with the select clientele who call themselves Thai
Marlai regulars.

Deliver
Get paid for bringing the news to campus!
Davidsonian
Contact Laura Filosa (lafilosa, x7261) for more details.
