THE DAVIDSONIAN

Blind Everest climber lectures
By Blairn McGraw
Staff Writer

Erik Weihenmayer, the first blind individual ever to reach the top of Mt. Everest, spoke on his experiences yesterday at the Duke Performance Hall. The lecture followed a Monday night screening of his film, “Farther than the Eye Can See,” which documents Weihenmayer’s 2001 expedition to the top of the world’s highest peak.

Blind since the age of 13, Weihenmayer has become a world-renowned climber, and in 2002 he also finished his journey of climbing the highest peak on each of the seven continents. During the lecture and slideshow, he spoke of his journey up Everest, as well as his struggles to overcome blindness. He explained how he hated blindness at first and said he decided to climb because “I wanted to stop building walls around myself.”

Weihenmayer feels that he is a “problem-solver or innovator.” He decided to climb Everest, not to throw caution to the wind but because he considers himself a pioneer. He said part of his motivation for climbing “was to shatter people’s expectations into a million pieces.” He hoped to rise to his “internal potential,” and said, “no matter how high I got, I was going to celebrate.” Speaking of the view from the top, Weihenmayer said, “The greatest things in the world can’t be seen or touched, but felt with the heart.”

He filled his talk with humorous anecdotes, including one about dropping tic tacs into the open mouth of a friend who was sleeping on a rock ledge below. Asked about his greatest accomplishments, he spoke of the challenge of being a fifth-grade teacher for several years and of his three-year-old daughter.

The lecture was sponsored by Summit Coffee, which supplied the coffee for Weihenmayer’s 2001 trek. In addition, Summit also became a recent sponsor for World TEAM (The Exceptional Athlete Matters) Sports, where Weihenmayer sits on the board of directors. World TEAM Sports holds events around the world for athletes with and without disabilities. Tim Helfrich ’00, one of Summit Coffee’s owners, said the climber “has been a friend of ours associated with Summit since 2000.” He said they wanted to bring Weihenmayer to Davidson because “we want to promote outdoor adventure and human-powered sports.” Helfrich added that Weihenmayer is also an “inspirational individual,” and a role model who can expand the imagination.

Students were excited about the famous climber’s presence on campus as well. “I am amazed that he was able to climb anything blind,” Will Stoudemire '06 said, “especially considering that [climbing Everest] is one of the most difficult things to do in the world.” Stoudemire, who is interested in climbing, also said, “I think it’s awesome and we need to have more adventurers come here.” Matt Wilson '06, interested in mountaineering, said that Weihenmayer “is better than all the climbers that I know.” He added, “If I could climb half as well as he does, I’d be happy.”

In addition to his presentations, Weihenmayer also spent some time Monday afternoon at Davidson Outdoors’ climbing wall, where students had an opportunity to climb and spend some time with him. Ed Daugherty ‘85, director of Davidson Outdoors, said it was a “gracious thing on the part of Summit to include us.” He said that Weihenmayer's presence “may interest people to become involved in Davidson Outdoors who haven't before,” especially those interested in mountaineering.

NEWS | WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2003

SGA meets with Mayor to improve town relations
By Anicia Janos
Staff Writer

The Student Government Association welcomed Mayor Randall Kincaid, Town Manager Leamon Brice, and Police Chief John Kearin at last Thursday's meeting to discuss the town's upcoming plans and how to improve relations between...Davidson students and the surrounding community. SGA President Charles Washington '04 launched the discussion by saying, “The wall is slowly starting to come down between the College and the town,” in reference to both the town’s and students’ increased attempts to merge the two.

Kincaid began by noting that “our little town is one of the busiest” and that a recent town election added one new member to the board. He described one of the major future plans to be “developing a 200-acre park in cooperation with many faculty members,” to be located on the east side of town. This third park, to be named Fisher Farm Park, will hopefully increase the amount of space available for community members to congregate.

Brice, who likened himself to being the “CEO” of the town, said, “We are working on some pedestrian safety improvements” in order to “define the crosswalks a little more clearly.” These plans include creating crosswalks from the science buildings across Concord Road and within Faculty Drive. Kincaid also announced plans to implement a crosswalk from Concord Road towards Carolina Inn and the Firehouse, and said, “We want to have them before you come back to school in August.”

Kearin, who will be starting his fourth year as Chief of Police this January, announced that his main goal is to “perpetuate the quality of life that goes on at Davidson” and affirmed that the force increased the number of police vehicles to 18 throughout the town as an added crime prevention tool. Interestingly enough, the fact that Davidson College is in session has no direct correlation with the amount of traffic violations that occur throughout the area.

When asked how students may improve relations with the nearby town of Davidson, Kincaid responded, “It could be an even stronger town with more student participation” by actively taking an interest in the kinds of shops that make their business in the town. He realizes that the town “is not a great shopping destination,” nor an excellent source of restaurants, and hopes that in the future, Davidson residents will not have to drive to nearby exits to fulfill their shopping needs.

---

Cable clarifies College’s affirmative action position

Admissions Dean says race is considered, but strongest group is selected

By Zach Kazior
Staff Writer

Two contradictory remarks made in past months by Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid Nancy J. Cable have left some students wondering exactly what Davidson’s admissions policy said when it came to affirmative action. The first came this past summer, when affirmative action dominated national headlines. The U.S. Supreme Court struck down the University of Michigan’s points system, which gave minorities preference in the undergraduate admissions process. At the same time, the court upheld the law school’s method of giving race less weight in the selection process, its intention to “[obtain] educational benefits that flow from a diverse student body.” The law school considers race, but does not apply it to a points system in which being a minority adds considerable weight to one’s application.

Cable reacted to the court decision by saying, “The Supreme Court’s decision in upholding the University of Michigan Law School’s consideration of race in admission decisions in light of institutional needs and goals affirms the process that Davidson uses in its admissions decisions.” She went on to say, “Considering each applicant separately in light of his or her own merits, Davidson seeks to gather the strongest, most able, and most diverse class from among its applicant pool each year. Today's decision is good news for selective colleges like Davidson that look at each applicant separately, but may present a challenge to schools that must use point systems in admissions decisions.”

Last month in the State of the College address, Cable again spoke on affirmative action in the admissions process, saying that, “Our standards are not different for any group.” Many students expressed confusion over these two statements. While Cable had said in the former statement that race was a consideration in admissions, she also expressed in both statements that each applicant is judged separately on their achievements and that everyone is given equal consideration.

Cable sought to clear up these discrepancies in a recent interview. “No any one group receives special treatment,” she said. “We will take the very best group that we can.”