Practice your Hindi and hit the buffet at new Indian restaurant
By AMY FREEMAN Special Contributor

Sangam Indian Cuisine, a charming restaurant that has been open for about two and a half weeks, has a lot
to offer to Davidson food connoisseurs. It is located off of exit 28 in a shopping center that has a
range of dining selections, from a Chinese buffet to southern cooking.

When I entered Sangam, I was greeted by a bronze statue and a potted bamboo plant. There were Indian illustrations
hanging on the walls, and the windows were covered with wicker curtains that each had a diamond-shaped swath of cloth,
in various colors and patterns, in the middle. The bar had large patches of colorful fabric on its paneling, and
the tables had white tablecloths, white napkins, and neat place settings. The cozy feel of the restaurant was enhanced by
the Indian music playing in the background and the engaging decor.

I arrived at Sangam at 1 p.m. and was quickly greeted by two waiters who were eager to show me
to a table and present me with a menu. I was one of only two patrons at the time, so
I had the full attention of the wait staff, and they were gracious and prompt. To drink, Sangam offers sodas,
tea, coffee, chai, Indian tea, water, and various alcoholic beverages. The menu itself presented enough options to satisfy even the
pickiest of eaters. There were appetizers, including soups and salads; pork, chicken, beef, vegan, and vegetarian selections, as well as
a long list of Indian breads that the kitchen bakes to order.

---

Album Review: Canada’s Broken Social Scene does more with more
By CURTIS SCHMADER Arts & Living Editor

The past three years have seen a minimalist trend develop in indie rock. Bands such as the White Stripes, the
Yeah Yeah Yeahs, and the Kills have all received press for their stripped-down, “back-to-basics” approach to rock’n’roll, and apparently the
basics do not include the bass guitar, an instrument eschewed by each of these bands.

Other indie rockers, however, have gone the opposite direction, piling on the instruments and developing a grand, messy heap of
sound in the process. Broken Social Scene, a 10-piece collective from Canada, use this approach admirably on their sophomore album
“You Forget It in People.”

The album opens with “Capture the Flag,” two minutes of drone in which instruments bleed in and out of the
mix to create a pulsing tension. That tension breaks with the second song, “KC Accidental,” as drums enter and propel
the music forward. Over the course of “KC Accidental” and the next song, “Stars and Sons,” the band’s interest in
dynamics and instrumentation becomes clear. A clever, catchy riff lies at the center of “Stars and Sons” and drives the
song forward, but the real action occurs as the music alternately swells and diminishes in loudness. The size of the
band enhances these changes in dynamics, as guitars, trumpets, flutes, strings, and distorted drums rise and fall around the central
riff throughout the song.

Both at their loudest and softest, Broken Social Scene traffic in grandiose atmospherics and stray sounds both electric and acoustic.
Their focus on the space surrounding the melody and the rhythm of a song, as well as their frequently breathy
singing, hearkens back to the great My Bloody Valentine and the legions of so-called “shoegazing” bands inspired by that group’s
heavily distorted ambience and attention to sonic detail. Yet while there are similarities between the shoegazers and Broken Social Scene,
the latter’s expanded instrumental palette and ability to scale down its sound sets it apart from the former—a difference demonstrated
by the excellent “Cause=Time.” The song opens with a crisp drumbeat and a tightly strummed chord progression on the electric
guitar, generating a sense of intimacy that never quite dissipates as layers of instrumental voices join the fray.

---

What Do You Think?
What will Bill Cosby be remembered for in 50 years?

“Jell-O Jigglers. That’s all I think of when I think of him. ‘They jiggle when they slide down your throat.’
Definitely Jell-O Jigglers.”

“The Cosby Show. It broke racial barriers.”

“I think he will be remembered for having been part of one of the most positive family-centered programs. Plus he’s
the reason why millions of kids today eat Jell-O.”

“Jigglers. Kids Say the Darndest Things.”Darndest Things.
A Lewis Beard ’07
Amy Puckett ’05
Jessica Zesch ’05
Travis Hunter ’06

Living entrees ranged from $11 to $15, reflecting fairly the portion sizes. From 11:30 to 2:30, the restaurant offers a
lunch buffet for $6.95. The buffet includes a cold salad bar, with lettuce and a variety of dressings, as well
as cucumber salad and a salad composed of potatoes and chickpeas (chana masala). It also had mint chutney, an onion
sauce, and rice pudding (kheer). On the hot bar, there was Tandoori chicken, chicken and mushrooms, eggplant in a sauce,
fried vegetables, and a spinach dish. Available to complement all of these choices was basmati rice. A generous basket of
warm, just-out-of-the-oven bread (naan) was brought to my table, and it was delicious, as was the rest of my meal.
I sampled most everything at the buffet.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2003

Darryl Hannah stars as Flower Hercules in ‘Northfork’ and could not find a single dish that I did not like.
The food was all fresh and hot, and a wonderful introduction for a first-time diner in an Indian restaurant. With
its delicious food and proximity to campus, I highly recommend Sangam.

Sangam Indian Cuisine
Dinner Hour
Sunday-Thursday (5-10)
Friday-Saturday (5-10:30)

Lots of pretty pictures
By Derek Lou
Arts & Living Editor

“Northfork” has no characters. It has actors that elicit laughter and shallow emotions, but their roles’ importance lies not in
the meaning of their actions, but in the aesthetic effect of their mannerisms, speech, and costumes. The actors are set
pieces that merely walk and talk and wear frilly costumes and black suits. Nick Nolte’s Father Harlan approaches “characterhood,” but
is too good of a priest to be anything but. The cast also includes six men in identical black suits
and identical black Fords. It is 1955 and days before a dam floods Northfork, Montana. The men (James Woods and
Mark Polish have the most prominent roles) must evacuate the town before the flood. Their challenges are a man with
a pair of wives and a Noah-styled ark, another man who has nailed himself to his front porch, and an
amorous couple with not one but two Chevrolets. As the men explain, Chevy owners are particularly hard to remove.

Another storyline involves an adopted boy returned to Father Harlan: the boy, Irwin (Duel Farnes), is ill and cannot make
the journey from town. Irwin’s imagination — or maybe his reality — brings to the film a collection of angels:
Flower Hercules (Darryl Hannah), ambiguously gendered and emotionally connected to Irwin; Cup of Tea (Robin Sachs), who speaks almost exclusively
in puns (he longs to be Earl Grey); Cod (Ben Foster), a mute cowboy attached to a music box; and
Happy (Anthony Edwards), a handless appraiser with glasses bigger than Coke bottles. The angels are in search of a relative,
the Lost Angel, and perhaps Irwin is he.

Director Michael Polish tells his story of paper-thin characters, which he co-wrote with his twin brother and actor Mark Polish,
in a film of great visual beauty. It’s worth seeing for the images alone, though Stuart Matthewman’s score and the
actors’ dialect add significantly to the film’s unique tone. Under Polish’s direction, “Northfork” is a triumphant collaboration of Danny Glicker’s
costume design, David Storm’s art direction, and Erin Smith’s set decoration. “Northfork” is visually-minded to the core, and in that
sense, it is as good as a film can be. For example, at the beginning of the film, Father Harlan
delivers a sermon to his congregation in a semi-demolished church. The back wall is removed, and behind him, we see
a vast, open plain upon which cattle graze. There were moments when “Northfork”’s beauty plastered a euphoric smile on my
face. And while I mention the lack of characters, their absence does not bother me. The Polish Brothers’ first film
was “Twin Falls Idaho,” another visually stunning film, that one about conjoined twins. “Idaho” had many characters, all well developed.
It’s not that the Polish Brothers can’t do characters, it’s that they spared them from “Northfork.” In the literal and
figurative sense, they had a vision for “Northfork” and, more impressively, they had the nerve to uphold it.
