What's so great about globalization? "What's so great about America?" - Ask conservative writer Dinesh D'Souza this question and he
will list reasons from his book of the same title, ranging from the high standard of living enjoyed by the
average American, to the relative equality of our society compared to the rest of the world, to the high degree
of upward mobility possible for most Americans. The problem with Mr. D'Souza's answer is that he leaves out what is
perhaps America's greatest advantage over all other nations. It is the reason behind D'Souza's reasons; why we have such a
high standard of living, a high level of equality, and a high degree of upward mobility. What is so great
about America is that we have been able to take advantage of globalization and international integration more than just about
any other nation.

Globalization, essentially the integration of markets, ideas, and information that allows us to connect with people all around the world
better than ever before, has brought enormous benefits to the United States. Thanks to globalization, America has more markets in
which to sell our goods and richer people in those markets to buy more of our goods. The reason that
we have such a high standard of living is because goods are more affordable than ever before thanks to globalization.
The reason that we have high levels of upward mobility and relative equality is because we have a larger and
more lucrative job market thanks to globalization. The point is that without the rest of the world, the United States
is nothing. Only because of the international community are we able to enjoy all of the advantages we consider so
great.

DAVID CROW

Yet, despite everything America gains from the rest of the world, we have spent the past two years distancing ourselves
as much as possible from the international community. Instead of taking unilateral actions that alienate us from our allies, we
should be working with our allies to strengthen our ties. Instead of cutting $20 billion to rebuild Iraqi schools, we
should be increasing that amount and making sure that every school in Iraq has Internet access. Instead of supporting agricultural
subsidies for American farmers, we should be lifting our trade barriers. According to The Economist, doing so would bring 144
million people in developing countries out of poverty by 2015. Instead of cutting $20 billion to rebuild Iraqi schools, we
should be increasing that amount and making sure that every school in Iraq has access to the Internet. It is
no good building a country from scratch if they are not able to connect with the rest of the world
through technology. If poor nations are able to compete freely and fairly and are given the technology to connect with
the rest of the world, they will eventually develop many of those same qualities that make America great.

"What's so great about globalization?" That is the question we should be asking. When we do, we will realize that
globalization is great because it facilitates economic prosperity, equality, and upward mobility. Globalization is what makes us great, and if
we can successfully integrate the developing world into the global community, they will be great as well.

The truth behind what 17% really means

There is NO high like knowing your stuff. For instance, did you know that 17% of Davidson students drink alcohol
once a year or less? (Based on CORE survey data 2002). I learned this on the mug I was given
in the Union a few days ago. Just when I was missing my parents, I drank my morning coffee. How
late did you get in last night, Nicholas Mark Carlson? 17%... Is 17% a lot or a little? Should we
be alarmed or disappointed? Georgia, feel free to throw a party if you think we can do better. 83% of
Davidson students are lushes on their way to rehab. Two drinks a year, Lord have mercy! 17% of Davidson students
do their homework on Saturday morning, even Friday night. 83% read the topic sentences at breakfast Monday morning. 17% go
on alternative spring breaks, helping the poor in Kuala Lumpur. 83% cannot remember their break, but man was it fun,
I think. 17% of students write first drafts and then revise their papers. 83% confuse that for which and never
bother to care. Hey, I write carefully the first time through. Alcohol citations are up 88%, a clear factor in
the successful prevention of all forms of vandalism and hate-crime on campus. Writing this column, I feel like Jeremy Trantham:
"Dude, got wasted AGAIN last weekend. YEA SENIORS '03!!" 17% are still reading this column. 83%: huh?!?!

I found this in The Davidsonian last week: "While I truly appreciated the point of Nick Carlson's article in the
Sept. 10 issue of The Davidsonian, I must respectfully argue that there is a pivotal difference between using soda/hot drugs
to...

Lessons I’ve learned while crossing the street to the VAC

There is a certain list of supplies necessary for trekking to the VAC.
1. One detachable Vera Bradley oxygen tank (with matching lipstick case/inhaler).
2. A small Shih Tzu in case the weather gets all 'Isabel' and you need fuel—there’s a variety of dishes
one can make with the tender little furballs... "Shitzstew" comes to mind, and for the health-conscious, "Shitzsushi."
3. The "VAC Pack." This includes a black beret (tilted ever so slightly to indicate extreme profundity and a desire
to fight the "man"), scars from a life-changing pilgrimage to a small Nepalese nudist colony, and a grimace (preferably overflowing
with hand-rolled cigarettes made of bee pollen and boiled sprouts). *French accent and poor hygiene (or is that the same
thing...) are also recommended for entry.

Now what could possibly be deterring students from visiting the VAC? The truth is the handsomely domed edifice is usually
emptier than Anna Nicole’s resume. It’s so quiet that all you...Relax: the former has never gotten anyone seriously hurt/killed/raped. Injury.
Death. Rape. Drinking. Isn’t Davidson a school full of kids from over-achieving upper middle-class families? Whatever happened to middle-class moderation?
(Underage) students are going to drink and more than a few are going to get drunk doing it. This will
not change. Ever. If you really want to help, be realistic. Kegs save the planet. Easing up on Patterson Court
keeps kids on campus and out of their cars. If freshmen can get a beer on the court, they might
not pound (as many) shots in their rooms. No one goes to the hospital because a friendly senior snuck them
too many beers. 17%... “Oh wait, I get it! Alcoholism is bad! It’s a clever trick, making us think that
drinking is a part of college life. Damn that Belushi.

NICHOLAS CARLSON

The “VAC Pack” includes a black beret, scars from a life-changing pilgrimage to a small Nepalese nudist colony, and a
grimace (preferably overflowing with hand-rolled cigarettes). All I can hear is the desperate caffeine-guzzling of the gallery attendants. At night,
the place looks deader than a post-prom “Carrie” scene (minus the pig’s blood). Why, someone could even set up a
Fetish club complete with an authentic 16th-century Sicilian torture chamber and no one would be the wiser (coincidentally, “Whips and
Brains” will now be meeting bi-weekly in the lounge).

Recently, a group of concerned Visualites came together to form a student-run organization for art. My suggestion of a name
for the group, “The Jackson 5,” was unceremoniously refused. Just because Herb Jackson is not in charge of it, and
there are “7” people, doesn’t mean it wouldn’t work. Plebeians. If something “happened” to two of the members, there would
be five... <maniacal laughter inspired by ‘Sopranos’ Emmy win>. These students (however misguided in their naming decisions) are trying to
bridge the literal gap between this campus and Main Street. They are currently in talks with Richard Simmons about fashioning
an intricate bridge made entirely out of his discarded spandex. Also being discussed is simply papering the road with all
the CatCards I’ve lost since freshman year.

To end this sarcasm-laced lecture, I will quote the illustrious (and illiterate) Christina Aguilera: “Come on over baby.” There’s a
spotless facility, a 2,700-piece collection (including works by Picasso, Rembrandt, and Frida Kahlo’s unibrow), and neat little trees trimmed daily
by a Taiwanese child named “Tang” who thinks “child labor laws” are nicknames for Santa’s reindeer.

Dean’s downfall? It’s been a rough few years to be a Democrat. The re-election of George W. Bush would be
the ultimate disappointment. Unfortunately for the Democrats, disappointment is what they will get if media darling presidential candidate Howard Dean
wins the nomination, which up until last week was a more likely occurrence than not.

What made Dean so appealing? He brilliantly tapped into the two issues that make liberals madder than hell: the war
on Iraq and tax cuts. Dean’s supporters saw his ardent opposition to the war and his proposed rollback of all
of Bush’s recent tax cuts as their revenge for 2000. Dean’s problem is that he has hinged too much of
his campaign against a war that is still popular. 70 percent of Americans still think Saddam Hussein had a role
in the 9/11 attacks. When Dean says that our troops in Iraq “need to come home,” supposedly to be replaced
by non-existent foreign troops, millions of Americans see a man who does not want to protect them from terrorism.

Dean’s tendency to make outrageously untrue attacks ensures there will be many more weaknesses to be exploited in the future.
For example, he recently noted that his health care plan would cost about $87 billion, “which happens to be almost
exactly the amount the president asked to wage war in Iraq for another year.” I guess Dean forgot that the
war is over; the $87 billion is to rebuild Iraq. If he has a problem with that, he can kiss
the White House goodbye.

MATT BANDYK

How can a party go from a leftist ideologue to a flip-flopping moderate so quickly? Democrats may be heeding this
warning. There is no other way to explain the outpouring of support for new candidate General Wesley Clark, whose most
distinguishing feature other than his military record is that he’s none of the other mediocre candidates. But at least we
know where Dean stands. It’s not so easy with Wesley Clark. He said that he probably would have voted for
the war resolution, but then the very next day said he “never” would have supported the war. Clark defenders claim
that one can support the war resolution but oppose actually going to war, but that stance seems contradictory because the
resolution that Clark says he would have voted for gave the President full authority to wage a war that Clark
claims he didn’t want.

Now confused, Clark wants to appear as liberal and angry as Dean. This is coming from a guy who didn’t
even know until recently that he was a Democrat and voted for both Reagan and Bush. He even once referred
to Reagan as “a great American leader.” But, Clark is leading all the other candidates, and one poll even had
him beating Bush in 2004. How can a party go from a leftist ideologue to a flip-flopping moderate so quickly?
The Dems love Clark because they have finally realized that the media machine that put Dean briefly on top had
created a monster with no chance of winning. Clark may barely be a Democrat, but he’s electable. But do not
count Dean out - most of Clark’s positions are not public yet. If he’s too wishy-washy, the “We Hate Bush”
crowd may take over and propel Dean to the top once again. At least, that’s what every Republican is hoping.
