By JorpiE Poncy and Saran Dotts
Staff Writers

Friends, music, dancing and, of course, booze. These were the main components of last weekend, as Patterson Court held its
annual “First Night Down.” This is a special night when both hardcore partiers and the stay-in-your-room-for-a-movie type students unite on
the Court to welcome freshmen to come on down for the first time. Of course, half the freshman class has
already been to parties in F and off campus, but according to the masses, the night was a success all
the same.

Freshmen and upperclassmen alike seemed to enjoy the weekend, where they were invited to parties at Pi Kappa Alpha, Kappa
Alpha, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Phi Delta Theta, CoHo, and the Black Student Coalition. Warner and Rusk co-sponsored
events. While most students seemed to enjoy themselves last weekend, opinions differed based on the classes.

When asked, most upperclassmen seemed to enjoy the weekend a little more than they did as freshmen for several reasons.
Sophomore Jordyn Griffin ’06 compared this year to last year, saying, “It’s so much nicer to know people and to
know where you’re going than to be a freshman and have no clue.” Other upperclassmen agreed that “even though we
weren’t the center of attention, it was still fun.” Dan Divis ’04 had fun watching the behavior of the freshmen.
He found humor in the events of the night, asking, “Did I really act like this once?” One upperclassman thought
that this time around, First Night Down was more fun because she had “more understanding of the Court.” On the
other hand, Jamie Shelton ’05 said, “I’ve had better.”

Older students also remarked on the behavior of the campus police this year. A student who preferred to remain anonymous
said, “The police were well behaved inside the parties, but were out to get people outside, peering into cups.” Social
chair of Turner and sophomore Catherine Walker said that she was “intimidated” by the cops. According to her, the police
have become noticeably stricter this year. In fact, the police have been spotted regularly on weeknights roaming the residence halls,
including substance-free halls, keeping tabs on campus activity. Based on anecdotal evidence, the new practice seems highly unpopular with the
student body.

Policemen and alcohol citations aside, the First Weekend Down was a success. The freshmen seemed to fit right in and
the upperclassmen were able to relax and enjoy their first opportunity to party with friends back down on the Court.
Still, there will always be skeptics of the event, such as Michael Flake ’06, who was asked to summarize the
events of the weekend. His response: “Oh, the debauchery!”

Would you be pleased to earn a $1000 commission on a $1295 sale? Or a $3200 commission on a $3995
sale? Did you earn $3000 last week? If not, call (704) 799-2567 or visit www.funbizops.info

Staff Writer

Coming off of the explosion of raw freshman energy release and continuing into Saturday evening without respite was a little
hard, according to many a groggy flickerball player Sunday morning. Though no Patterson Court house boasted bands for Saturday evening,
save CoHo’s salsa band Impacto, many first-year students found it...the more fulfilling evening. In true freshman form, one first-year unabashedly
proclaimed, “Was it a good time? I was drunk and staggering.” Natalie Dennis ’07 concurred that she had a much
better experience Second Night Down, saying, “There wasn’t as much hype. Some hype is a good thing, but there was
definitely too much the first night.”

Saturday night, a progressive pre-party through the senior apartments, was another factor in some students’ affirmations of Saturday night’s superiority.
Students who preferred dancing to DJs rather than live music generally favored the second round of Patterson Court’s First Weekend
Down. The PhiDelt house was a particularly popular destination for students with the enticing black lights illuminating the street and
a hip hop DJ, though other Patterson Court houses—SAE, SigEp, and the BSC—also drew large, swelling numbers. Those not yet
retired also congratulate Davidson for satisfying what one student refers to as “the late night munchies.” She adds further, voicing
the sentiments of many a Davidsonian, “When I drink, I like to eat.”

First-year Erin Price ’07 expressed much enthusiasm for the Black Student Coalition’s unique beach party, but also revealed disappointment at
the police shutting down the festivities at the early hour of 2 a.m. She said, “I was very bitter.” One
senior noted a profound absence of freshman students during First Weekend Down, particularly the first night. “I did go out
late,” she continued, “could they have all been in bed by then?” A frustrated Belk resident confesses, “I was sleeping
at 1 a.m.”

Though most freshmen did go down to the court earlier in the evening, some students delayed their descent to the
court for the always-popular under-21 phenomenon of “pre-gaming.” With alcohol policies dictating that all drinking students of age wear “ugh,
tacky” wristbands and what many students consider a vigilante police brigade goose-stepping the green, many underage students find no other
way to imbibe safely than by shutting all doors and drinking quickly before the parties. Though one participant acknowledged the
lack of safety in pre-gaming, he also complained that there’s no other way to drink before going down, even in
moderation, “unless you’re a girl, in which case, yeah.”

Second Night Down remained anticlimactic for many students. Freshman Julia Smith ’07 holds that, for her, the second night of
the weekend seemed a bit, “been there, done that.” It’s going to be a long year. Emily Kota ’07 maintains
that although she felt she might have had too high of expectations, First Weekend Down “measured up! I had a
better time Friday night, because I was still tired on Saturday from the night before.” More importantly, “I was just
happy to do something other than hanging out on the halls and watching movies on the weekends. I had a
fabulous time dancing the night away with my hallies!” Lauren Morse ’07, however, offers the most profound analysis on the
war between the Nights Down, saying, “Friday and Saturday tied for funness because they played Madonna both nights!” Oh, college.

Public Policy Literature Economics Film Psychology History Sociology Politics Environmental Studies

The Swedish Program, Hamilton College, 198 College Hill Road, Clinton, New York 13323 (315) 737-0123 www.swedishprogram.org
