By David Crow
Perspectives Editor

The Supreme Court heard arguments Tuesday in two pivotal affirmative action cases that could determine whether affirmative action will be used in everything from college and graduate school admissions to employment at government agencies and other jobs. The outcome of this case will do more than decide the future of race-based decisions in college admissions. It will also play a large role in determining the future course of this country. Will we be a country in which the vast majority of graduates at elite colleges and universities are wealthy white men and women? Will we fail in fostering respect for and knowledge of people and cultures different from our own? Or will we continue to be a country in which many people have little interest in interacting with people different from themselves?

At Davidson, the admissions office has enough problems attracting African American and other minority students while using affirmative action policies. It is truly scary to imagine just what the percentage of minority students on campus would fall to without using these policies. While critics of affirmative action always point to the fact that we should base admissions purely on academic talent and performance, there are very few students who are not helped to at least some extent by some criteria beyond merely academics. Whether it is a student’s geographic location, how wealthy or poor they are, or where their parents went to school, there are numerous factors besides affirmative action that help students gain admissions to schools like Davidson that are completely beyond their control. Yet few people seem to be saying that preferential treatment of legacy applicants is unconstitutional, or that helping students whose parents are potentially large donors is a problem. The point is, regardless of whether they were black or white, many people at Davidson and most other colleges across America were helped by some factor other than just their grades and SAT when they applied to college. If minority students, who are less likely to be children of large donors or legacies, were not helped by affirmative action then they would be at an even greater disadvantage than they already are.

The real danger of overturning affirmative action will not be felt in the short term, it will only truly be seen after many years. While this country has made enormous strides in recent decades at creating a truly equal society in which one’s race or background do not determine one’s opportunities, repealing affirmative action would be a giant step backwards. While that may be a step some people are willing to take, I for one would see it as the start to taking away America’s title as the land of opportunity and equality for all.

Battle of public opinion will be Bush’s true test in war
By ZACH WILLIAMS
Staff Columnist

With the war in Iraq nearly two weeks old, American public opinion has remained fairly consistent in its general support for the “liberation” efforts. But for those of us yearning for information and developments on how the war is going, media sources continue to present vague, contradicting, and ultimately confusing evidence for successes and failures. Few people know what or who to really believe during these uncertain times. In the wake of mounting U.S. casualties and numbers of soldiers missing-in-action, Donald Rumsfeld and other officials continue to maintain that all is going according to plan. However, several analysts blame the government and military for assuming a cocky forecast on how effective the now jingoish “shock and awe” campaign would prove to be. At the same time, according to CNN, Iraqi foreign minister Naji Sabri continues to declare that the U.S.-led coalition is being “defeated on all fronts and [is] retreating in the face of strong strikes.” As informed American readers, we know there is little truth to such a propagandist statement aimed largely at instilling patriotism into the hearts of Iraqi soldiers and civilians who we are told know no better. But many wonder whether the unexpected resistance in Iraq could incite a drop-off in favorable public opinion which seems to be tottering on the precipice of disillusionment as firework-esque shows of bombs over Baghdad are replaced on our TVs by scores of bludgeoned and burned bodies, both American and Iraqi.

From a military standpoint, it seems that the war will be a success and is mostly “on track.” But from the outset, this war has been centered largely on politics and public opinion and not military requirements and goals. While Bush used excuses such as national security to begin the war, calls for “liberation” have prevailed among U.S. officials and the media in attempts to glorify a militant course of action that is never pretty, and seldom quick. The U.S. has even had the audacity to dub military aggression as “Operation Iraqi Freedom.” So as we Americans at home watch in ashamed pride when high-resolution video and snapshots of explosions and plumes of smoke over Baghdad grace our TVs, we are sure that our military will courageously succeed in destroying Iraqi opposition forces in our altruistic efforts of invasion. But positive public opinion will need to remain throughout our subsequent reconstruction of Iraq. The question is whether the American public will be so forgiving when the widespread devastation of a full-fledged American attack is unveiled, and those weapons of mass destruction we’ve heard so much about never turn up. The Bush administration is banking on a lot of uncertainties. For America’s sake, let’s hope that in this instance, George W. really does know what he’s talking about.

Why do women say those crazy things?
By Jeramy Trantham

I know nothing about women. I don’t understand them and I doubt I ever will. I’m just ignorant about how women work. Most guys are, but I never knew they were such cannibals until this weekend. Last Friday I witnessed a conversation that made me realize how horrible some women are to their friends. I haven’t been feeling well lately, and decided to give my liver a rest last Friday. Sometimes even I need a break from Beast. I’m fine with this because sobriety allowed me to watch and remember.the Friday night basketball games (and a big thank you to Maryland for killing my bracket). After hanging around sober for a while, my roommate and I decide to stop by the Union for a late-night snack. With my roommate’s girlfriend in tow, we head up to the Union Cafe. There, we meet one of her friends, and she decides to join us. Two guys. Two girls. They’re drunk; we’re not. I know it sounds unrealistic, but it’s true. Paul and I discuss the night’s games (stupid $*&$ Steve Blake), but the girls choose another topic entirely. Now normally, we’d just ignore them and keep talking basketball, but when the words, “Do you think so-and-so is fat?” enter our ears, we stop and listen in. Not because we want to, but because we have to. This is the same phenomenon that causes rubbernecking on the highway. The, “Do you think she’s fat?” conversation has that much pull. The next seven minutes were fascinating in an obscene sort of way. I listened as two perfectly nice girls talked about one of their friends. Had she gained weight? Yes. How much? Not much, but enough to notice. When had she gained it? When she went abroad. Had she put more on since coming back to Davidson? No. The conversation ended only when they realized I was staring at them with quesadilla juice running down my mouth. They closed with, “Yeah, but she’s so nice. I love her.” I started choking. How can you talk that bad about someone for so long and then end with, “She’s great.” Guys don’t do this. It makes no sense. Sure, we talk crap about each other, but not really about our friends. If we’re talking that long about some other guy, then we obviously hate the tool. Guys don’t usually say things behind a friend’s back that they wouldn’t say to his face. Sure, this type of confrontation can lead to a fight, but that just repairs the friendship anyway. Most often, guys just rip on each other to a friend’s face. It’s all in good fun anyway. If you have a friend with a weight problem, he’s usually the first one to make fun of himself. Trust me, I belong to a fraternity with its fair share of fat guys. I get scrawny jokes thrown at me all the time. I don’t understand women. They eat their own friends in search of a conversation topic. I’m sorry, but it reeks of figurative cannibalism. I can’t believe these are the people that will mother my children. Thank God it’s baseball season.

Growing rift between social groups harms our Davidson experience
By Mike Galdo
Staff Columnist

Davidson has changed during my three years here. I noticed a difference during my sophomore year, but it was when I returned from abroad this past semester that the changes really hit home. The College is becoming more and more stratified. Three main groups of people make up this campus: people who go to the Court; you see this same group out every weekend. Then there are those who stay in their rooms and apartments to drink and hang out. Finally, there are the people who work constantly, never seem to have any fun, and prefer to isolate themselves from social interaction. Drinkers and non-drinkers seem unable to co-exist now. More and more students are opting for substance-free halls. When I arrived at Davidson, there were some anal-retentive people in the sub-free halls--I’m sure there always have been. However, there were also plenty of people who went out on the weekends. Some drank, some chose not to. This past year, if I have my statistics right, not a single male on a sub-free hall joined a fraternity. It was the constant interaction between all three groups that made Davidson an interesting place to live. You would see both sober and drunk people out on the weekends. Your blood-alcohol level wasn’t important; the only thing that mattered was whether or not you wanted to have a good time.

One of the main reasons for this stratification is the removal of the Outpost. The Outpost united this school. People who otherwise would never have ventured onto the Court came down to hang out and mingle with their fellow students. The sober and the intoxicated would hang out in the same cramped room for hours. That does not happen now. Another issue that concerns me is fraternity life on campus. The idea of pledging is under attack by the administration. It appears that the College is on a path that will soon lead to the end of fraternities. It would take a separate argument to defend pledging, and national fraternities remaining on campus, but no matter what your view, doing away with them should be a decision made by the student body, not the administration. Almost every student I have talked to agrees that things need to change on campus. Unfortunately, few seem to believe that any student can make a difference. They view actions like shutting down the Outpost as emblematic of the administration’s view of the students’ opinions. Almost every student wanted the Outpost to remain operational, but it was closed anyway. I understand that students are inexperienced compared to those in charge of the school. Perhaps we do not have the background that the board of trustees, the president, and the deans have. In addition, they have to consider alumni donations. But this is still our school. Courting alumni opinion is obviously important, but the direction this College takes on social issues is a matter for the student body to decide in a public forum--not something school officials should decide behind closed doors.

We do not attend school in an authoritarian state. We have been granted many freedoms to live our lives as we choose while enrolled here. But it should not be the job of the administration to micromanage the private social lives of the students. We should be given the freedom to make those decisions. Davidson needs to be reminded of its motto: “Let Learning Be Cherished Where Liberty Has Arisen.” The administration encourages learning, but without liberty, students will never cherish their time here.