| epee on By Erin DELK Staff Writer

In the first of two weekend games, the Wildcats lost a 66-64 heartbreaker on a last-second shot to East Tennessee
State University on Saturday afternoon. The Wildcats opened the game scoring eight of the first 10 points. ETSU quickly regrouped
to go on a 10-3 spurt to take its first lead of the contest, 12-11, with 10:56 on the clock.
For most of the remainder of the period, the game was back-and-forth with five ties and nine lead changes. However,
Davidson scored the last six points in the half to take a 39-34 advantage into the break.

The ’Cats extended their lead to 10, 46-36, early in the second half with four points by Schott and a
three-pointer by Callahan. After junior Ashley Hallsted hit a three to put the ’Cats up 49-40 with 13:23 left, the
’Cats went on a six-minute scoring drought. During that stretch, East Tennessee State tallied 14 points to retake the lead
and momentum. ETSU stayed in control until Callahan hit her third three of the game to level the score at
60 with 2:34 remaining. Down by two with 14.3 seconds left in the game, junior Robyn Flewelling nailed both free
throw attempts to knot the score at 64-all. East Tennessee State then proceeded to call timeout to set up a
final play. Verdell let the clock wind down at the top of the key before driving to the free throw
line and connecting on the game-winning jumper with 2.8 seconds left. Verdell finished with a career-high 28 points, including 16
in the second half, on 11-for-21 (52.4 percent) shooting.

For the third straight game, sophomore Emily Callahan paced Davidson. The forward notched 22 points and seven rebounds. Senior Bethany
Schott recorded her fourth double-double of the year (20 points, 10 rebounds) in the losing effort as well. As a
team, the Wildcats shot just 25 percent (9-of-36) from the floor in the final 20 minutes while Verdell alone made
seven shots for ETSU.

“Inconsistent play has been our nemesis all season,” said Davidson head coach Annette Watts. “We just have to overcome it.”
As Schott and Flewelling remarked, the loss “was another huge disappointment, but we’ll learn from our mistakes. We need a
win to get our confidence back.”

A win is just what the ’Cats got Monday night as Davidson pulled out their third conference victory in a
63-50 win over College of Charleston in Belk Arena. The teams remained close for the first ten minutes of play
with tough defense, and the Cougars retained a one-point lead with nine minutes to go in the first half. However,
Hallsted connected on two back-to-back baskets, giving the ’Cats a 21-20 lead with 8:10 left in the half. With sophomore
Janell Crayton’s forced turnover on the defensive end, forwards Emily Callahan and Courtney Laird followed with two three-pointers as the
’Cats took a 27-22 lead. The team then hit a scoring drought for the next four minutes, allowing Charleston to
slowly creep back to withinThree points. However, Charleston hit its own offensive wall, as they did not manage to score
at all in the last 4:44 of the half. Davidson took advantage of Charleston’s weak offense and began to pull
ahead: free throws from Callahan and a baseline jumper from freshman Katie Delk with 1:11 left in the half. A
gutsy charge from junior Lindsay Shade with 27 seconds to go set up fellow junior Robyn Flewelling’s two free throw
attempts at the other end, giving Davidson its largest lead, 33-24, going into halftime.

Recognizing their need to score, College of Charleston came storming out of the locker room with the first five points
of the second half, bringing them within four points of the Cats. The Cougars stepped it up not only on
offense, but also on defense, applying more pressure to Davidson’s guards to eliminate their three-point opportunities, which accounted for 15
of the Cats' first half points. The Wildcats adjusted accordingly, and focused on feeding the ball inside, giving them their
first point of the half on senior Bethany Schott’s free throw at the 17:50 mark. Davidson continued to work their
inside game with another basket and set of free throws by Schott with 15:50 to go. Charleston’s pressure began to
wear on the Cats, forcing a desperation timeout, followed by a turnover with 12:50 left in the game. The Wildcats
regrouped, and continued to play strong defense. As Shade remarked, “We always harp on our defense and truly believe our
offense starts with our defense. Tonight we were working as a solid unit defensively.” The unit forced 15 Cougar turnovers,
which proved costly down the stretch for Charleston. Down seven points with two minutes to go, the Cougars picked up
full court man-to-man and began to foul to stop the clock. Unfortunately for them, the Cats shot 80 percent from
the free throw line in the final minutes of the game, ending any Cougar hope for a comeback. As Hallsted
and Flewelling noted, “This was an important win for us after two disappointing losses last week. We knew that we
had to come out ready to play hard and with confidence.” Shade agreed, adding that “The best part about our
win tonight was that it was a total team effort. We go 11 people deep and every single person contributed
in this victory.”

The Wildcats are now 3-6 in conference play, and travel to Cullowhee, N.C. to face conference rival Western Carolina on
Saturday, Feb. 1.

Join the Ranks, Hall Counselor and Resident Advisor Positions

Hall Counselors (rising Juniors and Seniors)
Resident Advisors (rising Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors)

All interested parties encouraged to apply! Applications are currently available at RLO and are due to RLO by 4:00 pm,
Friday, January 31st, 2003. Screening will begin in February and include an individual interview and participation in a group process
activity. Decisions will be made before Spring Break. Compensation includes an $800 stipend and half off the room rate for
the 2003-2004 year.

Questions? Please contact Associate Director, Leslie Urban, at leurban@davidson.edu or x2188.
