By Lindy Baldwin * Staff Columnist

Last week’s nightmarish story of a seven-year-old Houston girl who accidentally shot herself with her father’s gun is, unfortunately, not unique. Dozens of similar tragedies in recent years, however, have failed to significantly change laws or views on gun control. In fact, the depressing dance that inevitably follows one of these ghastly events has become downright predictable. Those on both sides of the issue stamp their feet, fling irrational propaganda at each other, and ultimately nothing meaningful is accomplished. However, the fact that such tragedies continue to occur is a clear indication that something needs to change.

I sincerely believe that positive change can occur without threatening the rights of law-abiding citizens to keep and use firearms. But first, both sides of the gun-control issue need to re-evaluate their own positions and behavior.

First off, the pro-control lobby needs to clarify its goals. Aside from the Brady Bill, they haven’t united behind anything concrete in recent memory. About the only thing gun-control advocates seem to support is “more safety,” especially for children. Well, isn’t everyone in favor of that? As a friend commented last week, Charlton Heston doesn’t want to see guns stolen out of people’s houses and used in schools any more than Diane Feinstein does. The vaguely defined aims of gun-control supporters leave them open to accusations from gun owners that their ultimate goal is to strike the Second Amendment from the Constitution and force us to defend ourselves against muggers with nothing but a set of keys.

Which brings us to my next point: the gun lobby needs to back down from its hysterical and irrational shrieking that gun control is just the first step towards taking away guns. Is FDA approval the first step towards taking away Advil? Are zoning laws designed to prevent us from having houses? How about that government-mandated nutritional information on all food products — does that mean the government wants to take my can of Diet Coke? Certain gun-control measures are not so much Second Amendment violations as they are common sense. What is so unreasonable about requiring that all gun owners get a gun license, register all weapons, and pass a gun safety test? This does not infringe upon the right of the people to bear arms; it just helps ensure that firearms they bear will be used in a safe and responsible manner. Essentially, we do the same thing for a car by requiring driving tests, insurance, vehicle registration, vision tests, written tests, and emissions tests. No one argues that our right to drive is being infringed upon.

Another measure that is clearly required is stricter controls for guns kept in family homes. If a gun is to be kept in a home with children, the owners of the gun must be required to purchase a child-safety lock, or take some other measure (like locking up the gun) which will guarantee that children don’t accidentally find an unlocked and loaded firearm while searching Mom’s closet for hidden birthday presents. Will such measures prevent all accidental gun deaths? Probably not. But at least it’s a start, which is more than has been done for a long time.

By Mike Galdo * Staff Columnist

The “problem” with gender relationships is always a popular topic of conversation on campus. The Davidsonian has printed an article on the topic every year I have been a student. Everyone seems to know that men and women (or, in many cases, boys and girls) on campus relate to each other in a strange manner compared to other campuses. However, everyone is not in agreement on the cause for our peculiar predicament.

A common explanation is the Court system. With so many girls and guys eating their meals in separate locations, this theory claims that an irreparable rift is formed between the sexes. Although this line of thinking has some merit, I must personally disagree that the Court is to blame. After all, other schools with more “normal” relationships have an active fraternity and sorority life. Perhaps it is the housing situation at Davidson. I lived in a single-sex dorm my freshman year. The testosterone-filled atmosphere (along with the smell produced by an all-male dorm) tended to keep the ladies from wandering in on their own. In order to see females outside of classes I had to make a special effort. By establishing this pattern as a freshman, maybe the sexes naturally segregate for the remaining three years on campus?

Although the administration’s housing policy may be partly responsible, it certainly isn’t the only culprit. After all, classes are mixed, parties are attended by both sexes, and hall mixers (however pathetic they may be) do take place. Maybe it is we the students who are to blame. Davidson students are so used to analyzing and problem-solving that they often view relationships with the opposite sex the same way. A date is a topic of discussion for weeks, mainly because dating is so rare on our campus. I must admit to taking part in the gossip myself because, let’s face it, besides sports, stupid things your friends did while drunk, and the always popular “I have so much work!” conversation that every Davidson student spews out constantly, there aren’t many acceptable topics to talk about at meals and over the weekend.

I don’t have any solutions for the gender relationship issues on campus. Maybe all the guys on campus have standards that are way too high. Or, perhaps as one of my friends pointed out the other day, maybe there just aren’t many interesting girls here. The fact that a heterosexual 20-year-old male is happy just hanging out with his guy friends all the time is pretty bizarre compared to the average college campus. Of course, the women seem to have a similar outlook. When I bring the subject up with my female friends they tend to blame the guys. One in particular said, “I’m single and pissed, too. Blame Davidson, fine, but don’t blame just the girls.” For my own safety, and because I think she’s right, I have to share the responsibility for the situation equally between the men and women on campus. I will be content coasting through my remaining year and a half on campus with my close female friends from home, and the few I have made here. But maybe the freshmen and sophomores, who have more time left, can work on changing things.More than two years left at Davidson should shake things up. At a minimum, let’s all please stop sitting in segregated classrooms, with the girls in the front or the middle and the guys on the sides and the back of the room. I am tired of feeling like I am in a seventh-grade dance.

By Davin Crow
Perspectives Editor

This year marks the 100th anniversary of the Wright brothers’ first flight. Despite Saturday’s tragedy, on board what must certainly be considered one of man’s greatest technological achievements, the progress that has taken place over the past century would most likely be simply unimaginable to those who stood on that windy beach in Kitty Hawk not so long ago.

From the earliest explorers, who roamed the seas with nothing but the wind to power them, to the astronauts, scientists, and great thinkers of today, mankind has always been driven by a desire to see further into ourselves and the world in which we live. It is this need to constantly be moving forward and never settling with what we are given that has made the world what it is today.

By exploring ourselves, we have come to see how life evolved from the smallest microscopic organism into the complex creatures we are today. By exploring our lands and our seas, we have gained an understanding of our planet and the different people who inhabit it. By exploring technology, we have reached the point where people on opposite sides of the world who have never left their hometowns can communicate over the Internet. By exploring our freedom, we have created a system of government in which liberty and equality for all are placed above the desires of the few.

Now, the next frontier that we must explore is space. Just as there have been setbacks in all of our previous endeavors, there have been and will be more challenges and tragedies in space. Yet, despite the hardships and sadness that accompany any loss, we must not forget the incredible gains. Space exploration has allowed us to learn more about the world, the universe, and ourselves. It has made possible medical advances that have saved lives. It has given pride to our country and others. But perhaps most importantly of all, it has brought us one step closer to moving beyond our own world and exploring the distant heavens that only a short time ago we could only dream of seeing with our own eyes. Now, that dream is within our reach. If we can go from the simple flight of a glider to spanning the seas to landing on the moon and now having a permanently manned station in space in just the past hundred years, just think of what the next century will have in store for us.

- Jeremy Trantham

Space Tragedy: Part 2 evokes familiar pain

Memory is a funny thing. It works in unique ways—especially memories of childhood. I can remember certain things vividly, but it all runs together in a kind of excited blur. Sometimes things only come back as a feeling or an emotion I had. My earliest memory is watching a UNC basketball game with my mom. I was about three and sitting in the living room watching Nickelodeon, probably Pinwheel, but I don’t really remember. I just know that I was pissed when my mom changed the channel to some stupid game.

“Why are you turning it?” I asked.

“Because there is a basketball game on. UNC is playing, and we like them. They have a player named Michael Jordan and we really like him,” she said.

At three, I accepted all of this without question. I mention all of this because memories are often triggered by seemingly unrelated events. Every time I watch Jordan play, I remember that sentence, “We really like him,” and it makes me feel like a kid again.

Space travel was dangerous back when I was in first grade. Astronauts were heroes. They still are. We just needed a reminder. Anyway, I woke up early on Saturday for some reason. I never wake up before 11 a.m. on a weekend as a rule, but this past Saturday I woke up at 9:30. Unable to return to sleep, I began surfing the internet for developments in Carolina’s football recruiting. One post on the “Tar Pit” message board was titled, “Let us pray for the crew of the Space Shuttle Columbia.”

“That’s odd,” I thought, “I remember the Columbia exploding when I was in the first grade. This guy is a moron.” I have an IQ of about 25 before noon. I had my shuttles confused. I realized my mistake a moment later when I turned on CNN. Watching the coverage on Saturday morning reminded me of sitting in class at Balfour Elementary and wondering why my teacher seemed so sad. A Space Shuttle called Challenger had exploded on take-off. I think we were watching the launch live, but over time that has become fuzzy too. I do remember watching shuttle launches in school. Back then, launches were not the routine they are now. Space exploration was still neat and cool, even to adults.

To be honest, I didn’t understand the big deal. Sure, the explosion was sad, but it was a beautiful day outside, and I was six. Six-year-olds have a unique ability to disregard bad things because of nice weather. I wish 22-year-olds possessed that same ability. This tragedy then reminded me of September 11. I found out about it from ESPN.com. Instead of a picture of MJ on the front page, it was a picture of the Twin Towers burning. The fact that I found out about both events from sports websites probably says a lot about my priorities, but you never forget what you were doing when real tragedy strikes. We mark the passage of time by the tragedies. Pearl Harbor, Kennedy, Challenger, 9/11, and now Columbia. Like I said, memory is a weird animal. Space travel was dangerous back when I was in first grade. I remember that now too. Astronauts were heroes. They still are. We just needed a reminder. Fortunately, on days like Saturday, I can still watch MJ play basketball and I’m the 3-year-old, playing in the living room instead of the 22-year-old who wishes he still didn’t understand why a tragedy could dampen a nice day outside.