Fenruary hall. Call tees with questions. Five acts of Shakespeare showable but too long? Try one-acts. The Davidson Theater Department,
fresh off its performance of Angels in America, has a busy season. On April 2, 3, 9, and 10 at
7:30 in Cunningham, the Advanced Directing class will present a series of student-directed one-act plays. Following this, the Studio Performance
class will perform an original black-box show on the 16th and 17th, also at 7:30 in Cunningham. Tickets are $3
and are purchased at the door. Call 704-894-2361 for information.

Wilderness: credentials and has also authored “Reading the Environment” and “Down from the Mountaintop.” Following the reading is a book
signing. The free reading begins at 7:30 in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room on March 26. Call 704-894-2487 with
questions.

Help men explore sexual conduct issues by looking at their own socialized attitudes and behaviors that lead to rape. The
lecture is free and will be at 7:30 on April 1 in the Duke Family.

Goose, from page 1
Reaction to the agreement: In a statement released after their court appearances last week, the six freshmen charged in the
killing apologized for their actions. The lone senior declined to comment. “There is no justification, excuse or defense for what
we did,” the statement said. “We all sincerely ask for a chance to prove to our community the true nature
of who we really are and to prove by our actions that we will give back to our community. None
of us felt right about engaging in this fraternity initiation requirement and at the time did not muster the strength
necessary to resist the overwhelming peer pressure from upperclassmen. We have no one to blame but ourselves.”

College President Bobby Vagt said Monday he was satisfied with the agreement reached between the seven students and Mecklenburg prosecutors.
“Without minimizing what they did, any sensible plan that results in seven young men doing what they need to do
to avoid a criminal record, I support that,” said Vagt. “I think it was very thoughtful and creative on the
part of the district attorney.” Vagt said he has heard from more than 500 alumni since the goose killing. Most
did not believe the students should be sent to jail. “Most of the people I heard from directly argued very
strongly that there should be accountability, but that people should not be drawn and quartered,” he said.

Town of Davidson Police Detective Steve Ingram, the primary investigator in the case, said Tuesday he also agreed with the
conditions of the agreement. “I feel in this situation, the best decision was made,” he said. “It allowed the students
to know this type of behavior isn’t acceptable, but at the same time it doesn’t damage them for the rest
of their lives. It’s something they can recover from.” But most of the 15 or 20 Davidson residents who contacted
Ingram about the case felt the sentence wasn’t severe enough, he said. “(Many) felt we should have imposed some jail
time,” he said. “What people considered was the nature of how the animal was killed.”

One senior fraternity member and six freshmen pledges were accused of luring the goose with bread, then beating it to
death with a golf club at Roosevelt Wilson Park on Feb. 7. School administrators closed the Kappa Sigma chapter until
fall of 2004. A hearing will be held next year to determine whether the house can re-open.

Town sets plans for growth
Griffith Street Report charts future development
By BRANDON CARROLL

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER
Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously at x2178.

3/23/03 Burglary and Larceny Martin Ct. Parking Area
Unknown person(s) willfully entered into victim’s vehicle and removed items within. Items lost were golf clubs and CDs. Golf clubs
were soon recovered. Unknown suspects at this time.

3/23/03 Alcohol Violation Residence Hall
Identified person was found throwing up. Student was transported to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center and later released.

3/23/03 Alcohol Violation Residence Hall
Student was found in an unconscious state in his dorm room. Student was transported to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center
and later released.

3/22/03 Alcohol Violation Sidewalk on Ridge Road
Student was found unconscious lying on the sidewalk near Ridge Rd. Student was transported to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center
and later released.

3/22/03 Alcohol Violation Fraternity House
Student was transported to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center due to having too much alcohol to drink and becoming disoriented.
Student was later released.

3/21/03 Damage to Property Patterson Court House
Unknown person(s) damaged a window, causing it to shatter. Estimated damage is $25.

3/21/03 Larceny Residence Hall
Unknown person(s) entered student’s room and removed two bottles of prescription stimulants. Incident is still under investigation.

News Editor
The town of Davidson, known regionally and nationally for its innovative, progressive planning strategies, will put thosePlans to the test
by adopting a new development plan for Griffith Street. Among the changes put forth is a new entrance to Davidson
College. With Davidson long-oriented towards the north-south North Carolina Highway 115, named Main Street in the town, planners are recognizing
the importance of sprucing up the road that links the town and college to I-77. Planners hope to develop this
“gateway” so as to create a more favorable first impression of the town for visitors, including four-story buildings and a
five-story hotel visible from the interstate, oriented towards green space and bus transit development.

To accomplish this, the town planning officers have released the Griffith Street Report on the corridor with its goals and
recommendations. The goals emphasize enhancing the gateway, creating a walkable, bikeable path from the street to the town core, creating
a pedestrian-oriented development pattern, and supporting bus rapid transit or light rail mass transit. They also hope narrowing the road
will end the feeling many drivers get that Griffith Street is an extension of the freeway. The plan calls for
roundabouts where three roads, Lake Davidson Drive, Jetton Street, and Beaty/Sloan Street, intersect Griffith Street. Of those, the state has
granted a funding request for the Beaty Street roundabout, and Town Planner Meredith Judy hopes construction will begin within a
few months.

For Davidson students, any such construction would require a brief detour when coming or going from I-77. The plan also
splits Griffith Street into three districts, each with a road cross-section and stated development goals. The cross-sections in all cases
add medians, planting strips, and sidewalks on both sides of the street. In many locations, on-street parking and bike lanes
are encouraged as well in an effort to narrow the road and consequently reduce speed. “We want to make it
easier for people to ride bicycles around town,” and not just in the Griffith Street corridor, Judy said. The walls
of the town planning office are covered in maps of Davidson, many filled with lines of orange dots indicating planned
bike paths.

Ensuing development along Griffith Street would have buildings built right up to the sidewalk, with parking in the back, Judy
said. It would generally be two to three, and in some cases four, stories with ground-level shops, restaurants, or offices,
with offices and residences on upper levels. Though moving ahead with some improvements as the town budget and state grants
allow, Judy said that most of the changes recommended in the Griffith Street Report will come at the time the
property is developed or redeveloped, at the developer’s expense. The developer will have to build to the specifications in the
report, or lobby town hall for amendments.

Davidson College will join its efforts to the town’s to make this vision a reality. Currently, Griffith Street dead-ends into
Main Street between the Admissions building and the Belk Visual Arts Center, facing the parking lot between Cunningham Fine Arts
Building and the President’s house. A problem exists because there is little to welcome visitors to Davidson College at that
location, and little indication that indeed they have arrived at the college. Further, the access to the Cunningham parking lot
is not aligned with Griffith Street, making drivers engage in tricky maneuvers to enter and exit that lot. The college
also recognizes the difficulty of crossing the street at that location, with so many cars coming and going. The college
will realign that entrance so it is directly opposite Griffith Street. They also hope to put in mast-arms on either
side to support the traffic signals, to replace the hanging power lines.

One goal is in dispute. The college is considering pushing for a median to aid in crossing at the intersection.
The town would like to see a bricked or raised crossing to alert drivers to yield to pedestrians. Judy says
that because of an existing elm that both sides wish to preserve, placing a median would mean sacrificing the bike
lanes or on-street parking next to the admissions building.

Near the Griffith-Main Street intersection and the rail line that will support future mass transit is Sadler Square, frequented often
by many Davidson students. CVS is relocating to a new Main Street location, with no word yet on what will
move in. The Griffith Street plan, devised with some input from Sadler’s owners, suggests a three- or four-story series of
shops, restaurants, and residences, as well as a “parking structure” to accommodate the development where Sadler Square currently sits.

The proactive planning commission is now working to improve connectivity with its green spaces and parks for pedestrians and bikers.
They also are evaluating building a road network with new connections between existing roads to decrease the traffic burden on
two-lane arteries such as Main Street, Concord Road, and Pine Road while preserving the small-town, pedestrian-oriented feel of Davidson.
