THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 24, 2003

Staff Editorial

Delay in SGA action
inexcusable

This editorial page has been at odds with SGA over the years, and SGA officials have often offered valid arguments to defend themselves.

This time, that’s going to be very hard.

One of SGA’s most important functions is the appointment of student representatives to at least 13 college committees, ranging from Intercollegiate Athletics and Educational Policy to Parking Appeals and Public Lectures.

Given that there are two to three student positions on most college committees, and given that a perennial student complaint is a lack of student consultation in college decisions, these appointments should have been made weeks, if not months, ago.

Last year’s appointments were made in April of the preceding year. Students, faculty, and staff were able to start the school year efficiently and effectively.

The current SGA administration was in place midway through last semester. We are almost five weeks into this school year, and appointments still have not been made.

The school, of course, continues to function. The Media Board has approved a new publication without student input. The Faculty Committee, anxious for student representation, has forged ahead.

Whether you see student participation as a right, privilege, or an obligation, there is no excuse to not take advantage of positions allocated for student input.

One of this week’s front-page stories (“Alcohol citations up 88% since last fall”) quotes SGA President Charles Washington as saying, “The SGA is responsible for acknowledging the changing trends in policy and procedures. It is our job to relay new information to our constituents via word-of-mouth.”

We can only hope this position is limited to the context in which it was given. SGA is responsible for much more than acknowledging changing trends in policy and procedures—in fact, it is charged with representing student interest in creating changes in policy and procedures.

The most direct route to fulfilling this charge is via student appointment to college committees.

Furthermore, a government that relies on “word-of-mouth” to “relay new information to [its] constituents” is dangerously close to creating an informed elite.

This SGA would do well to adopt a little more pro-activity and initiate a little more creative communication.

The Davidsonian

Patent Sweater.

Ali Fitzgerald

"So, You’re um, Running for School President? What are your platforms?"

"Recycle, TBALS, and create a Dean Curd."

"But what about your personal life?"

Teach for America to visit Davidson

On Tuesday, September 30, Teach For America will be holding an information session at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room with a presentation by Davidson graduate and Teach For America alum Aaliyah El Amin.

Teach For America is building a movement to end educational inequity across the country by recruiting the most promising recent college graduates to teach for two years in urban or rural public schools with the hope that they will become lifelong advocates for change.

As Davidson students, you are the best and most promising student leaders that Teach for America is looking for, so we, your Teach For America recruiters on campus, hope that you will consider joining the movement to end educational inequity in the United States and become leaders in affecting social change.

To learn more about the Teach For America movement and mission, please join us at the information session on September 30 where Aaliyah will be able to answer any questions you may have and tell you about her experience as a corps member in Atlanta.

If you cannot make it to the information session, Aaliyah will be in commons between 11:45 and 1 p.m. to talk to you and answer any questions you may have, or feel free to contact us (Mary Carpenter at macarpenter@davidson.edu, x6577 or Elizabeth Devlin at eldevlin@davidson.edu, x6614) anytime.

Also, make sure to check out the Teach For America website at www.teachforamerica.org, where you will find general information about the movement, corps member stories, and the Teach For America application.

Elizabeth Devlin ’04

Student supports Union Cafe

To everyone who constantly complains about the Union Cafe’s mismanagement (price inflations, meal-plan allowance reductions, etc.), I’d like to point out that the Chicken Fillet Sandwich is huge. It’s much bigger than last year.

That’s all really...

David Fulton Mabe ’04

Take notice of this death penalty case

Eddie Hartman is scheduled for execution on Oct. 3 for the 1994 robbery and murder of Herman Smith, committed while Hartman was inebriated in Northampton County, a rural area of North Carolina.

Many protest Hartman’s death sentence out of the belief that he received his sentence from a biased jury. Amnesty International and gay-rights activists are gravely concerned that prosecuting attorney David Beard emphasized the irrelevant fact of his homosexuality to demonize him in the minds of any jurors prejudiced against members of the gay community.

Beard’s own words quoted on the Amnesty International website validate this concern persuasively: during his cross-examination of Hartman’s mother and aunt’s testimony regarding Hartman’s childhood molestation by his adult male relatives, Beard responded to Hartman’s mother, “Is your son not a homosexual?”

Implicit in Beard’s inflammatory questioning here and in other instances is the insidious suggestion that the molestation of a child by an adult is not as illegal or morally reprehensible when that child, as an adult, identifies as homosexual.

How would this illogic work when applied to the scenario of a young girl molested by an adult man? If that girl has heterosexual relationships as an adult, was it “abuse,” since by her orientation she would have, sexually speaking, enjoyed it?

John Fry ‘06

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor.

Please e-mail submissions of less than 250 words to davidsonian@davidson.edu. We reserve the right to edit for content, brevity, and grammar.

A DOSA FILOSA, BY LAURA FILOSA

CAN
ger’ Ss oor BELK
som YOu Kaw, Rent