_The Davidsonian_

**Wanted: More Conservative Speakers Booked on Campus**

By ADAM MARTIN  
Staff Writer

Yesterday, the Public Lectures Committee (PLC) approved funding that would help bring Dinesh D’Souza, former senior domestic policy analyst for the Reagan administration, to campus. John Pitts '04, President of the College Republicans, made the proposal; however, the PLC funds do not guarantee D’Souza’s visit to Davidson.

This decision comes at a time when some Davidson students have expressed concerns over the balance of political perspectives of campus lecturers, claiming that Davidson speakers lean liberal. Pitts and Russ White '04, editor of Libertas, reviewed the listing of lecturers from the past two years and found a “major imbalance in their ideological stances and backgrounds,” said Pitts. Pitts realized liberal bias may be difficult to prove, yet all students must have access to funds that bring major speakers to campus.

According to William Brown ’70, Davidson College spends over $150,000 annually on lecturers and presenters. Brown has been the Director of the College Union and has served on the PLC for over 20 years. He also oversees the Union Speakers Committee (USC). The PLC, comprised of nine appointed faculty and staff members and three students, including the USC chair, governs the use of around $90,000. The committee is responsible for selecting Davidson’s four high-profile, endowed lectureships - the Reynolds, Smith, Wearn, and McGaw - as well as other faculty co-sponsored lecturers.

According to Dr. John Wertheimer, Professor of History and PLC Chair, the PLC often seeks input for speakers from outside faculty members but also receives and has approved requests, like D’Souza, from students and student organizations. “A lot of work goes into bringing a speaker to campus—travel arrangements, accommodations, calendar issues, dinners at the President’s house, visiting classes,” said Wertheimer. “If a student takes the initiative, we are often willing to support it.”

The Dean Rusk Program and USC are the other two organizations that receive a significant portion of funds for speakers. The Student Advisory Committee (SAC) plans and organizes events and proposes speakers to Dr. Chris Alexander, Professor of Political Science and Director of Dean Rusk. The SAC and USC are directed and staffed by students. So is the Union Speakers Committee. Joining these committees and making proposals may be the best way for concerned students to ensure that speakers reflect their interests.

But should these committees create a systematic self-check for political imbalance? Alexander said, “Eight times out of 10, we don’t know the political leanings of an invited speaker until they have the mic in their hand.” Both Alexander and Wertheimer reported that political ideology is not usually factored into the selection process at all. “When the proposals come to us, the bias may already be there,” said Wertheimer, “but we vote on the merit of the proposal, which doesn’t include a political litmus test.” Alexander noted that Dean Rusk explored potentially politically divisive issues in the form of debate rather than with a single speaker. Brown warns...us not to look at the issue of balance too narrowly. “We have more speakers than the calendar can easily handle. These folks cover a tremendous array of interests and academic disciplines, including but hardly limited to social and political issues.”

December 12 — (Special Evening Hours — Monday & Tuesday)
20% Off General Books/Gifts/Clothing
Cards & Stationery
BOOKSTORE CHRISTMAS SALE
December 19

Merry Christmas from the Bookstore Staff
Hours: Mon. & Tues. 8:15 am — 7:30 pm
Wednesday, Thursday & Friday 8:15 am — 5 pm
Saturday 11 am — 2 pm
Store Closes at 4:30 pm on December 19

Commons, from page 1

At the request of several vegetarians this year, rice and beans are served at every meal, excluding breakfast, to accommodate for the “lack of broad vegetarian options,” according to Masi. More tofu has also been added. Phillips noted that the amount of food space has reached capacity, prohibiting the addition of larger amounts of food in the storage area.

The November 16 change is “a direct result of the e-meal comments and food committee,” said Phillips, referring to the e-mail system where students may offer suggestions to the menu. On average, about 5 “e-meals” are received each week. During the December meeting, suggestions were made to offer tours of the kitchen to Davidson students, which will begin in January, and to increase the number of waffle irons available on the weekends.

For the first time ever, Commons will be open for extra hours during exam week for students desiring a quiet place in which to study. On Thursday, December 11, Friday, December 12, and Sunday, December 14, Commons will be open from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m., offering fountain drinks, coffee, and various snacks. Students may swipe their Cat Card, use their declining meal balance, or pay $3.50 for entry during these late-night hours. Laptops are welcome.

Future plans for the Dining Services Committee include being involved in future renovations to Commons, a process that begins within the next month. Beginning on January 22, Phillips and Richard Terry, Director of Auxiliary Services, will talk with focus groups to discuss various perspectives on renovations to the building. Phillips wants to “get a broad sample of everyone to get their opinions of what they’d like to see” as the future Commons. At least six meetings will take place in Dupont Room, with all Davidson students invited to attend in order to offer suggestions. “We would love to have more student participation at the meetings,” Phillips said, with Masi requesting that students first contact him, Phillips, or the e-meal service to offer input.

Your Dream: “I want to become a doctor.”
Your Reality: “I don’t have the required courses for medical school.”

The Johns Hopkins Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program prepares college graduates for a career as a doctor. If you or someone you know wants to pursue a career as a doctor, apply by March 1.

For more information, visit www.jhu.edu/postbac or call 410-516-7748.