DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2003 VOLUME 94, NUMBER 16

By Eron Earley-Thiele

Newly elected Pres. Washington and Vice Pres. Hubbard

Washington, Hubbard win top SGA posts

By AMEE PATEL
News Editor

On Monday nearly 1,100 students exercised their right to vote in the SGA Category II elections. With stiff competition arising for several of the offices, the top positions went to Charles Washington ’04 for SGA President, Katharine Hubbard ’05 for SGA Vice President, and Adam Sperling ’04 for Union Board President.

A debate held on Sunday provided the student body a glimpse into the ideas and goals of all candidates. Among the top concerns was the increased communication between students and the administration. Washington, the current SGA Vice President, spoke of his plans if elected at Sunday’s debate. He stressed the need to strengthen students' involvement in their own social lives. Commenting after his win, Washington said, “With the recent controversy involving Kappa..."

See Elections, page 3

INSIDE THIS WEEK
News 1-4
Vagina Monologues opens Saturday. See page 2.

Arts & Living 5-6
More Sardonic Irreverence. See page 5.

Perspectives 7-8
A Valentine’s guide for guys and girls. See page 8.

Sports 9-12
2003 baseball preview. See page 11.

Students face charges in goose killing
Wildlife officials will say Thursday whether federal law applies

By Caroline K. Hauser & Matt Garfield
Managing Editor & Editor

Seven Davidson students affiliated with Kappa Sigma fraternity face two felony charges each under North Carolina law, and will find out this week if they will face federal charges as well. In the meantime, all Kappa Sigma activities have been indefinitely suspended and its Patterson Court house locked and closed.

Graham Hunter ’06, Oscar Hernandez ’06, North Moore ’03, Thomas Jeter ’03, and Steve Tolson ’06 were arrested Saturday after a town employee reported several white males luring a goose with bread crumbs and beating it with a golf club. Jacob Charlson ’06 and Andrew Mincey ’06 were arrested on Tuesday. All seven students are charged with committing felony animal cruelty and felony conspiracy to commit animal cruelty.

On Thursday, U.S. Wildlife officials will meet with Town of Davidson Police to determine if the bird was a federally protected animal. If so, the students could be charged with a federal crime. The incident at Roosevelt Wilson Park left a goose dead and a community stunned.

The community reacts
“It certainly has stirred the moral outcry of a number of citizens in Davidson,” said Davidson Police Chief John Kearin. “I think it would be best if we followed through with the legal side so it serves as a valuable lesson. There needs to be some kind of accountability and responsibility for their act.”

An e-mail sent on Saturday from President Bobby Vagt was the first time many students heard about the crime. Vagt renounced the actions as both “repugnant” and “senseless,” and later expressed frustration. “Although I’ve seen actions that were silly or in bad judgment or poor taste or even wrong,” said Vagt, “I have been able to understand how they happened. This is the first time I have been confronted by an action I can’t begin to explain.”

Kappa Sigma, students charged with Code of Responsibility violations
In addition to the criminal charges, the seven students will face Code of Responsibility hearings, as will Kappa Sigma. Dean of Students Tom Shandley is heading up the investigation into Kappa Sigma. “We’re still trying to gather information,” said Shandley. “The students that are charged have all retained attorneys—as they should—but that makes it more difficult for us to get that information.”

According to the investigation report, Charlson told police the incident was not a pledge event. Vagt disagrees. “I do not believe that this action was unrelated to their pledging of Kappa...”Sigma,” he said. The Executive Director of Kappa Sigma’s national headquarters said Monday he is disappointed by the allegations. “It’s really sad,” said Mic Wilson from his office in Charlottesville, Va. “It’s certainly not reflective of the values of our organization. And see Kappa Sigma, page 4.

Students rise at dawn for Dave concert tickets
More than 100 camp in Union; tickets sold out
By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

For many Davidson students, half the fun of the Davidson Dave Matthews concert was waiting in line—all night long. Some student tickets remained after the initial day, but all tickets have since sold out. With ticket sales starting at 7 a.m. the next morning, a line began accumulating as early as 1 p.m. Friday afternoon, with about 30 people joining the ranks by 10 p.m. and over 100 by 3 a.m. Saturday morning. Students chatted and socialized. Many brought board games, such as Scrabble and Monopoly, to pass the time. Some added music to the atmosphere by bringing in guitars and other instruments. Another group took the camp-out literally, having their very own tent and lawn chairs.

Andrew Hill ’04, the head of the first group in line, believes Dave is just that important to wait. “Dave’s the artist that I like to see the most, and the smaller venue with the acoustics lets you get down to the essence of the song, so I just wanted to get the best possible seats I could,” he explained. Shortly after, some of Hill’s fellow Sig Ep brothers, who brought their TV, X-Box, and DVDs to help pass the time, coincidentally joined him. In fact, four out of the first five groups were associated with Sig Ep.

Justin Neill ’06 made his Union entrance at midnight. He agreed with Hill, saying, “Dave Matthews is one of the best artists of our generation, and I would never have forgiven myself if I missed a chance to see him at our own school.” For others, getting good seats was only an excuse to have a little fun. “A lot of the excitement comes from camping out in the Union with my friends, playing cards, and having some good old-fashioned fun,” commented Patrick Walsh ’06.

The Union Café probably enjoyed the additional business as well. Students everywhere were munching on quesadillas, pizzas, and other new late-night menu items. Kate Fiedler, President of the Union Board, which was responsible for landing Dave, walked around giving out free Danishes. “We had some food leftover from a Coffee House, and I knew there were some hungry people upstairs, so I just wanted to share the Danish love.”

Only a few faculty and staff members joined the student ranks overnight, having to endure the student sleep habits as well. A few hit the sack before 3 a.m., and many had woken up by 6:30. Diane Thornton, artist associate in voice for the Music Department, was one such faculty member. “I don’t have the luxury of living in Davidson,” explained Thornton, a resident of Winston-Salem, “but I did have a place to stay tonight. However, as I started talking to students, it became apparent that I may have to take more radical action to ensure acquiring two tickets for my daughter.” Added Thornton: “I just had this awful vision of a long line extending well outside of the Union at 7 a.m.”

The line, in fact, was not outside the Union the next morning, but it was close. Traveling from the entrance to the 900 Room on the fourth floor, around the fireplace, down both sets of steps, and then zigzagging around the “Crime Scene” ropes throughout the Atrium on the second level, the line had just reached the end of the roping by the time ticket sales began. About half of these students had entered between six and seven in the morning. After a long night and day, the line finally cleared out around 11 a.m.