Starts new job at Duke in June

By Matt Garfield, Editor

Craig Kocher says he couldn’t be happier as associate pastor at Davidson United Methodist Church and the College’s Methodist Campus Minister. So when Duke University invited him earlier this year to become its Director of Religious Life, Kocher knew leaving Davidson would be the toughest move he’s ever had to make.

The 27-year-old minister, chosen from a field of 80 applicants, will return to his alma mater in June to take on an influential position at one of America’s most prestigious schools. But for Kocher, bidding goodbye to students and church members in Davidson makes the move bittersweet.

“While it’s exciting, it’s also really painful because we’ve grown so close to so many people,” he said. “Davidson has more religious life than any school in the country, for the size it is. The opportunities are amazing. So I don’t know that I’d call it a step up because I love my work here. This is such a great place. If I had been anyplace else, it would have been a far easier decision to take that job.”

The deciding factor was that wife Abby, who currently directs DUMC’s missions programs, had been accepted into Duke Divinity School and felt called to pursue the same Master’s degree Craig earned three years ago. “I wouldn’t have even applied for the job had that not been the case,” he said. “That was a really big factor.”

So the Kochers will move to Durham in June, leaving behind countless friendships formed over the two years they spent in Davidson—during weekly group fellowship, regular get-togethers at Summit Coffee on Main Street, and mission trips to South America and Canada. As is Methodist policy, a successor will not be named for several months. But replacing Kocher won’t be easy, said one Methodist student who knew him well.

“He’s very approachable because he’s a younger guy who’s also very wise,” said Jamie McNab ’04. “He gives thoughtful advice. You feel like he can relate to college issues probably more effectively than someone who’s been out of college for 40 years. You get the sense he really cares. Whoever replaces him has big shoes to fill.”

Asked what he will miss most about his Davidson ministry, Kocher said it’s the faith conversations he’s had with McNab and many others. “Just about every night for the past two years, I’ve had college students in my house. I’m going to miss that. It won’t be as much of my role (at Duke),” he said.

Kocher’s official title will be Assistant Dean of the Chapel and Director of Religious Life, similar to Chaplain Rob Spach’s role in Davidson. He will help to oversee a faith program that ministers to 6,500 undergraduates and 5,500 graduate students from a wide variety of religious backgrounds, and he’ll preach occasionally in legendary Duke Chapel.

“I’ll be helping to oversee all the campus ministries, both Christian and all the other faiths,” he said. “I’ll be working with a lot of different people with a lot of administrative duties.”

Duke interviewed 80 candidates before selecting Kocher, who believes his experience both as a preacher and campus minister gave him an inside track. “I think they were looking for somebody who had experience working with college students, but also had experience leading worship and preaching in an academic kind of congregation,” he said. “Here at Davidson, I do both those things. Because of that, I kind of fit the mold.”

And the contacts he made while studying at Duke Divinity School were important as well. “I’ve still got people there that I know well and keep in touch with,” he said.

Kocher says his first priority at Duke will be to challenge students to think more about how their religious beliefs relate to their views on current world events, particularly in the troubled Middle East region. “How much of the global crisis has to do with misunderstandings about religion? I think it will be really exciting to help students think about issues of faith, and how we seek to live with one another in the midst of our differences. This is something we simply have to do in the world today,” he said. “It’s not enough just to have faith. For it to be worth anything, we’ve got to live our faith. In that way, we can discover real purpose and depth in our lives. There are students who are willing and who desire to do that. To me, that is a great sign of hope.”

Kocher promises to stay in touch with students and colleagues in Davidson regularly. “Somebody else can take my place as pastor,” he said. “I do think the role of friend can remain.”SissGlvinig the gloom m decorum by calling things by their right name.” Virtually everyone who spoke at last week’s memorial service echoed this sense of Costa’s infectious enthusiasm. “She was such a bright spirit,” said Donna Hamm, who works in Business Services. “She was always happy.” English professor Elizabeth Mills recalled meeting Costa in her “Hero’s Quest” course. “It was apparent to all of us in the class,” said Mills, “that Katherine loved words, loved stories, especially loved poetry.” Mills read from T. S. Eliot’s “Four Quartets,” William Wordsworth’s “Ode: Intimations of Immortality” and Emily Dickinson’s “Letter 868.” “With some pronoun changes,” said Mills, Dickinson’s words “express both the wonder of the individual whose life we celebrate today and our own slow progress through grief.” “We see [her] in the Star, and meet [her] sweet velocity in everything that flies. Pass to thy Rendezvous of Light / Pangless except for us— / Who slowly ford the Mystery / Which thou has leaped across!” Most poignant were the words of Costa’s friends. Kate Fiedler ’03 began, “I feel very lucky to have had lots of connections with Katherine,” and talked about Costa’s love of tap dancing. “I think she would share her wonderful smile with us if, right now, everyone tapped,” said Fiedler, and a thunder of heels on hardwood filled the sanctuary. Bill Neville ’03 described Costa as “fearless” in her honesty and love. Neville, along with Betsy Pinchak ’04 and Beth Gardner ’03, asked the audience to stand, hold hands and “pass the squeeze,” a tradition in the Dance Ensemble. Members of the Dance Ensemble, holding white lilies, performed an interpretive dance to Sarah McLachlan’s “Angel.” Members of the congregation openly wept as the dancers placed their lilies at the front of the church. “When I think of Katherine, I think of dance,” said Joy Gerdy ’02, “and now, when I think of dance, I can’t help but think of Katherine. She had the spirit of dance running through her at all times.” Some people are drawing lessons from Costa’s death. Physics professor John Yukich had Costa in class this semester, and said, “Katherine’s death has been a reminder for me that we need to work on our relationships and we need to tell each other we love each other.” Hamm expanded on this point: “Don’t wait to tell people you love them; if you have things that are unsettled, settle them.” Most, though, are still grappling with the loss of a young life. As Kuzmanovich said simply, “We shall miss her dearly.”

The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies Undergraduate Fellowship Program

The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies is seeking qualified undergraduate applicants to participate in a year-long fellowship program, "Defending Democracy, Defeating Terrorism". The fellowship program will commence in early August 2003 with an intensive two-week course in terrorism studies at Tel Aviv University in Israel. Using Israel as a case study, Fellows will learn about the threat terrorism poses to democratic societies around the world. Fellows will interact with academics, diplomats, and military officials from India, Israel, Jordan, Turkey, and the United States. FDD Fellows will be provided with all room, board, and travel expenses. FDD is a non-profit and non-partisan think tank that promotes informed debate about policies and positions that will most effectively abolish international terrorism. Interested students should visit our website www.defenddemocracy.org and complete the online application. Please send questions to fellows@defenddemocracy.org. Applications are due April 1, 2003.

More local merchants to CatCard service

By GEORGIE AHRENDT
Staff writer

With the recent category III elections, there was not too much on the table for discussion for the SGA members this past Thursday, but there was some talk of future plans. A CatCard expansion is in its very beginning stages. There are hopes that CatCards will be able to be put into use at local off-campus businesses in order to create convenience for students and more business for local merchants. More exploration of these possibilities is going to be made as the SGA continues to speak and negotiate with Business Services. Other possibilities for SGA money were discussed. One suggestion was for the installment of printers in the Union, and there has also been a request for more computers. There was also a request for SGA suggestion boxes distributed around campus as well as an SGA newsletter. There are also hopes for shuttles to take students to the lake campus, and there were suggestions for increasing community awareness with the town of Davidson with the help of an on-campus barbeque. At the end of the meeting, the resolution outlining the Patterson Court Liaison Committee (PCLC) was passed. The PCLC is responsible for communication between the Patterson Court Council and the SGA. The committee chair will attend the PCC meetings and will represent the SGA in making important decisions.