THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2003 3

Recent vandalism prompts security increase

By AMANDA STEPHENS
Staff Writer

Over the past few weeks, Davidson has witnessed destruction of campus property ranging from knocked-over lampposts to acts of arson in two Patterson Courthouses. Currently, Campus Security has no suspects.

The latest act of vandalism targeted Warner House. Unknown persons broke into the house, damaged property inside, vomited in a sink, and left the gas stove running overnight.

The recent acts of vandalism began on Friday, Sept. 6 with two knocked-over lampposts, each costing $1200 to repair. That same night, two fires were set, one by the back porch of CoHo, and the other on the newly tiled kitchen counter of KA. On the following weekend, two Davidson College signs were ripped up and put on the house lawn of SAE. Also that weekend, paper was ripped off the walls in Warner Hall, and food was thrown in the kitchen.

Campus Security is considering both students and non-students in its search for vandalism suspects. While students may be responsible for recent damage, Campus Security is also considering people not affiliated with Davidson. According to Campus Safety Chief Walker, the population outside of Davidson has grown substantially in recent years, making it more difficult to control the perimeter of the school. Davidson’s campus is very open, allowing easy access to trespassers.

Patterson Court Advisor Joy Hamm entertained the possibility that most of the destruction was not fraternity-related, saying, “I certainly don’t think CoHo or KA members would have set fire to their own houses. And, I am hesitant to think that a member of SAE would have removed the signs and then placed them in the yard of their own house.”

In an effort to prevent further vandalism, public safety has increased patrols. “Look out for each other,” Chief of Campus Security Fountain Walker said. Acknowledging that Campus Security is notorious for issuing alcohol citations and parking violations, Chief Walker stressed that student safety is the primary goal of Campus Security. “Davidson is one of the most prestigious schools in the nation, so you should have one of the most prestigious public safety departments in the nation,” Walker said. He also enlisted the help of the community and student body in keeping Davidson College a safe place. “We have very few eyes, so we depend on the community.”

Echoing a similar sentiment, Hamm urged students to be proactive in preventing vandalism. “I hope that by making Court members aware of the damage that has occurred in houses, members will look out for each other and for other houses. And, that if anyone has information about who might have been involved, they will come forward and let us know who is responsible for the damage.”

The costs for the damage to Patterson Court houses had not yet been determined. Residence hall damages have totaled $788.77 thus far this year, though only $68.00 has been in common areas, according to Director of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano. The residence hall damage is not out-of-line with past years. According to an excerpt from an annual report authored by Marsicano, “When all damage...

---

iY Costa Rica, Cuba, England, Ireland, New Zealand, Northern Ireland, and Scotland

Learn about our outstanding student services and programs

Monday, September 29
Student Information Table
10:15 am - 12:30 pm
Outside — In Front of Chambers Hall
Rain Location - Lower Level Student Union

Meet Representative Steve Seaworth
800-858-0229
Wan lisa-hutler.org
BUTLER UNIVERSITYand late fees are compared, academic year 2002-2003 shows a $371.95 reduction in fines as compared to academic year 2001-2002 ($16,103.97 vs. $16,475.92). While damage was down overall, common area damage increased 67 percent in academic year 2002-2003 as compared to the previous year ($5,743.99 vs. $3,422.67).

photos by Peter Roady

ON THE CATWALK

What do those 17% signs posted around campus mean? We have no clue.
Shenae Brackhinw '07
Shari Reid '07

SGA, Media Board approve new publication
Decision based on unscientific survey; Media Board meets with no student reps.
By Blair McGraw
Staff Writer

A charter proposal for a new student publication was the main topic of debate at last Thursday’s meeting of the Student Government Association. Called “The Third Person,” the bimonthly publication will be in magazine format and will focus primarily on Davidson College issues.

The main concern brought forward by the SGA was funding, as the magazine is estimated to cost $790 per issue. The managing staff asked the SGA to fund up to $600 for the first issue, saying the rest would be covered. Some senators also expressed concern that the magazine does not seem different from current student publications. In the end, however, the vast majority of senators approved the charter.

On Friday, the charter went before the Media Board for approval. Usually, the Media Board meeting takes place before final SGA approval, but a scheduling conflict allowed the charter to be passed before the Media Board discussion. “The Third Person” still has to set up an official budget to be approved by the Activities Tax Council. Associate Dean of Students Kathy Bray-Merrill said, “The Media Board will support their request for funds, although the ultimate allocation decision will be made by the ATC.” She added that normally there is student representation on the Media Board, but the SGA had not yet chosen those appointments for this year.

Billy Ferguson ’05, the general manager, and Andrew Devlin ’05, the managing editor, presented the charter to the SGA. Ferguson said the magazine would provide “in-depth and creative coverage of Davidson news” with “humorous and more detailed” stories. He added that the format of “The Third Person” would fall somewhere between the freestyle form of Libertas and the more formal reporting of The Davidsonian. Andy Martin ’05, the editor-in-chief of the magazine, did not present the charter because he is currently a member of the SGA.

According to the charter proposal, each issue will include columns on arts, athletics, social life, academics, and humor, and also one longer staff editorial. Shorter features on books, movies, music, and other general interests will be included as well. A survey of 282 students by the managing staff found that 48 percent are not satisfied with the variety of student publications and 80 percent would like to see more student publications added. The staff surveyed students at a booth outside the Union over one day, and members of two eating houses also filled out surveys. Ferguson called the survey “completely informal.” If approved, the managing staff hoped to have 1000 copies ready for distribution in the Union and residence halls by late October.

Also present at the SGA meeting was Richard Terry, Director of Auxiliary Services, to answer senators’ questions. The main concern was the reduction of meal plan features at the Union Cafe, as senators voiced disappointment over the change. Terry understood the concern but said Auxiliary Services had to “change the way we’re doing business.”