Women’s Tennis Spotlight

Seeing Double: Fillnow twins giving opponents twice the trouble on courts

By Mike Giglio
Sports Editor

Venus and Serena they are not. The Fillnow twins, Kelly and Meghan, like things that way. They started playing tennis at the age of ten, ancient by today’s standards of stardom. They played basketball, soccer, and gymnastics as kids before giving up everything in high school to focus on the sport they liked best. Their parents never pushed them to this choice.

“They didn’t push us at all; they just encouraged us,” Kelly recalls. “It was our decision.”

“We were more passionate about tennis. It came easier for us. We knew we would have a better chance at playing it in college,” Meghan adds shortly afterwards.

Although their distinctly different personalities are evident immediately, with Meghan the more talkative and expressive one and Kelly picking her words carefully and deliberately, the twins will often talk as if the same person, with one finishing the other’s thoughts and the two alternating fragments of sentences. One gets the feeling that their doubles play might flow just as smoothly.

“We wanted to play at the collegiate level, like our older brother who plays at Furman,” Meghan continues.

“We also wanted to go to a school where we knew we could make an impact,” Kelly says.

The Fillnows have done more than just make an impact on the team since arriving at Davidson last year. As sophomores, the two are already Davidson’s number one doubles pair, with a 6-3 record on the 2003 season. In addition, both have competed successfully in singles, with Kelly posting a 6-3 record at number one singles and Meghan going 8-1 at number three. Kelly was recently ranked 108 in women’s division one tennis for her singles play. She is the first Davidson tennis player ever to earn a national ranking.

“Getting an individual ranking is a nice accomplishment, but my ultimate goal before I graduate is for the team to win the SoCon tournament and make it to NCAAs,” she commented on her feat. “If an individual ranking comes along with the team wins, then it’s an added bonus. If the ranking comes without the team wins, then it is pretty much meaningless.”

The twins have helped push Davidson to get those team wins this season. They have been pushing each other to success for years now.

“We really push each other; we’re very competitive,” Kelly says. “That has really helped us in our careers.” She adds that the two are not allowed to play each other in practice because “it might cause problems.”

Playing together against and with one another has helped the twins develop playing styles that are similar, even identical, in some aspects yet different in others.

“We're athletic,” Meghan says, “but we don’t have the technical skills that some other players have.”

“So we rely on our athleticism,” Kelly interjects. “We come up and finish points at the net after long rallies.”

Even more similar than their playing style are the looks of the identical twins. They won’t hesitate to use that to their advantage in doubles play.

“We all wear the same thing, and it does throw some people off,” Meghan says.

“We like to throw them off,” Kelly adds. “We wear the exact same hair and things like that.”

“When they find our weaknesses, they don’t know whose it is. It can be confusing,” Meghan finishes.

Despite these very obvious similarities, the two differ in many ways. To begin with, “Kelly has the stronger serve,” Meghan says, as her sister begins to blush.

“But Meghan has more power,” Kelly offers in retaliation.

“Kelly doesn’t get off the court until she wins, she’s a grinder,” Meghan continues. “She sets the tone and motivates the team. She puts all the pressure on herself; when we lose as a team she’ll take most of the blame. She’s very intense.”

This difference in attitude is better explained when the two talk of their plans for the future.Meghan hopes to get married, raise a big family, and become a teacher after college. Kelly wants to take a different path. “I might try to stay in tennis after college, if not as a pro then as a tennis instructor. I think it would be hard to give tennis up completely after I graduated.” For the near future, at least, the girls will continue to pursue the same goal. They want to defeat their older brother’s school, Furman, and make it to the NCAA tournament. “We have a better chance,” Meghan starts. “This year,” Kelly continues. “Than last year,” Meghan goes on. “Because they lost their number one player,” completing the sentence. “Each year we have a better chance,” Meghan says. “I’m excited for how the season is going to turn out, just watching how the team’s been working out. Our hearts are really into it.” Kelly nods her head in agreement.

Kelly says, a beatable Elon team played indoors because of earlier rain, for the Phoenix early on. They won the doubles point by winning at number one and number two doubles. At number three doubles, Geoffrey Mullen ’03 and Pitan Stonestreet ’04 knocked off Justin Roberson and Thomas Bohof 8-5. Down 1-0, the Wildcats continued to struggle. At the first singles spot, Rob Haywood ’04 played evenly in the first set but lost in a tiebreaker. After losing the tiebreaker, Haywood lost steam and fell 6-2 in the second set. Donald Miles ’05 started out slow and continued to improve throughout the match but also lost his match to the visiting Phoenix. Stonestreet, however, continued his winning ways, overpowering his opponent and pulling out a strong 6-4, 6-3 victory. At four, Jonathan Britt ’04 lost a heartbreaker, 6-3 in the third set. Mullen also lost a close match, dropping both sets in tiebreakers. At number six, Russ Burns ’05 pulled out a third set tiebreak win over Elon’s hometown hero Richard Dutton. With this loss, the Wildcats fell to 7-4.

After a week of ugly weather, the Wildcats played MIT on a beautiful Saturday afternoon. The only thing ugly about the day was the pounding that the MIT Engineers suffered. Coached by Davidson student Jeff Hamilton’s father, the Engineers failed to tally a single point. Although Haywood and Miles suffered a rare defeat in doubles, falling 8-5, Burns and Rob Gould ’04 secured a victory at two doubles. Playing together for the first time all year, Gould and his partner complemented each other like peanut butter and jelly and easily won 8-1. Mullen and Stonestreet dominated their opponents, winning 8-1 in under thirty minutes. In singles, Haywood played some of his best tennis of the year, defeating his opponent 7-5, 7-6. Miles worked his Engineer opponent 6-3, 6-2 at the second spot and Stonestreet pulled out yet another victory at the third position, winning 6-2, 7-5. Because of a recurring injury, Britt sat the match out, but Mullen upped his game to pull out a 6-2, 6-2 win. At the number five slot, Burns capped his day by winning 6-4, 6-0. Joe Cheaney ’06 had the best match of the day but managed a three-set victory over his opponent. Cheaney won 6-0, 4-6, 6-2.

After the match, the Wildcats faced their toughest match yet. The Davidsonian of the week is Brian Akin ’04.

Baseball
Hometown: Louisville, Ky.
Major: Math and Economics

Akin picked up the first win of his career on Sunday, as he hurled 4.2 innings of relief, allowing one hit and striking out two with just one walk. It was also the first conference win for Davidson this season.

Baseball at Duke 7:00 p.m. Friday (through Saturday)
Men’s Tennis vs. ETS 2:00 p.m.
Golf at 2003 Bradford Creek Intercollegiate
Track and Field at Raleigh Relays
Track and Field hosts Irwin Belk Invitational
Baseball vs. App State (doubleheader) 12:00 p.m.
Lacrosse at Duquesne 12:00 p.m.
Women’s Tennis at Furman 1:30 p.m.

Sunday
Baseball vs. App State 1:00 p.m.
Men’s Tennis at UNC Greensboro 1:00 p.m.

Tuesday
Baseball at UNC Asheville 3:00 p.m.