_ » ARTS LIVING

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2003

Movie Review — Costner’s lengthy ‘Range’ revives summer cinema

Copyright Touchstone Pictures

Kevin Costner and Annette Bening star in ‘Open Range’

By STEVE KALISKI
Special Contributor

It couldn’t have been too long ago that moviegoers and critics snarled at the phrase “more of the same” with
a penetrating hatred for the overall lack of imagination in Hollywood. Movies would be so much better, we thought, if
only they’d give us something different.

How quickly times change. Since 1999, the bizarrely original year that featured inventive efforts like “The Matrix” and “Being John
Malkovich,” very few films have succeeded in achieving classic, formula-driven filmmaking. Mainstream directors either stumble while striving to imitate the
avant-garde experimentalism of independent filmmaking (“The Hulk”) or go overboard in repeating the tricks that they do know (any Michael
Bay movie).

This summer has been no exception. From the irritating desire to create THE BEST MOVIE EVER (“Seabiscuit”) to the misguided
assumption that jarring noise and colorful imagery equals entertainment (“Charlie’s Angels: Full Throttle”), recent films have refused to just go
with what works.

Given these ironic reversals of fortune, it doesn’t surprise me that the much-maligned Kevin Costner would be the one guy
to help revive summer movie entertainment. That I would enjoy so thoroughly the marriage of a fading star with a
dying genre proves that life has gotten just plain unpredictable.

It is not that “Open Range,” Costner’s latest foray into overlong and overearnest cinema, is something brilliantly life-altering and different;
it is quite the opposite. This nostalgic Western is nothing but “more of the same,” yet it celebrates the sameness
of a more dignified age of filmmaking. “Range” joins July’s “Pirates of the Caribbean” as one of the few summer
movies to cast away delusions of cinematic grandeur and simply deliver the goods.

“Range” includes everything that the golden age of movies taught us to expect from the Old West: staggering vistas, dusty
saloons, Biblical deluges, and clean distinctions between good and evil. The simple story follows the trails of two grizzled cowboys,
Boss Spearman (Robert Duvall) and Charlie Waite (Costner), whose old-fashioned ideals collide with a new wave of greedy post-Civil War
capitalism. Boss and Charlie freegraze their cattle under the assumption that the Wild West still belongs to everyone. They quickly
learn of the nation’s change in attitude when they are greeted by a small-town, landowning rancher (Michael Gambon) who wants
to rid his property of freegrazers once and for all. With these opposing sides holding steadfast to their beliefs of
right and wrong, “Open Range” rides to an inevitable conclusion with tragic implications.

The movie forces us to endure the typical Costner-isms that made “Dances with Wolves” one of the best movies of
the nineties and “The Postman” one of the most embarrassing projects ever backed by a major studio. “Range” is entirely
too long, mostly in part to the use of extended, sweeping shots of nothing in particular. It is also laughably
corny at times, getting little help from an overblown musical score and an obligatory romance between Costner and the town
doctor’s sister, played by Annette Bening. However, once these very few hurdles are cleared, the film is a genuinely entertaining
throwback. Duvall plays withRiveting confidence, a less animated, wearier version of “Lonesome Dove”’s Gus McCrae. Costner settles comfortably into his
needle-thin range and delivers his most watchable performance since “Tin Cup.” His true triumph here, though, comes not with his
acting abilities. The final shootout, staged with understated grace by Costner, is the single most exciting action sequence of the
summer and the only action sequence in the movie. Costner understands that for death to be captivating, the audience must
feel that something is at stake. Movies with too much violence only dull the senses so that the ensuing action,
although probably eye-popping, does not put us on the edge of our seats. Currently, “Open Range” is not shattering any
records at the box office, and yet with its modest budget, it should earn a small profit. Let us hope
that this will be enough incentive for Hollywood to follow its ostracized star’s lead and to resume producing skilled, expensive
films that actually have some value.

Cannon's Corner
with Cannon Hodge

Sweet summer treat helps students beat the heat
By CANNON HODGE
Staff Writer

It’s been so hot lately that anyone could puddle in an instant! I’m plum surprised that there isn’t a special
service passing out little Dixie cups of chilled water. So, in regards to our health, I’ve got just the solution
for these too-hot and too-humid afternoons. Jet yourself to the Emissary of the North Pole, the Colony of Candy-Cold, the
Kingdom of Snow-Cones Galore: The Penguin Palace. My goodness! There is the most delightful outdoor seating that evokes languid summer
days and it is just perfect for studying in the shade. It also is right on the way to Lake
Campus and should be noted for its divine convenience.

There are 80 flavors to befuddle your palate: Hawaiian Spike for the sharp-minded, Strawberry Daiquiri for the traditionalist, Tiger’s Blood
for the sanguine, Suicide for the positively morbid, Passion Drink for the hopeless romantic, and Pink Champagne for the senior
women. Still, there’s more! Kathy Holthouser, a Mt. Mourne native, opened Penguin Palace in May 2002 after retiring from Delta
Airlines. She wanted to work in a stress-free environment surrounded by the sticky, smiling faces of children. In fact, Holthouser
is so inspired by children that she named the three famed penguins of Penguin Palace after her niece and nephews.

So far, the Penguin Palace has proved successful because of Holthouser’s dedication to her block-ice kingdom. She hopes to travel
to New Orleans (the mecca of snow cone ingenuity) to further her knowledge of the industry. As Davidson students and
members of the community, we must remember to explore our local surroundings. There are fascinating niches in which we can
become lost and surprised. The Penguin Palace is an ideal monument of our youth and glorified summer days lost. It
harks to fireflies glinting in the twilight, juicy puckers, and unfettered innocence.

The Penguin Palace is located on Highway 115 N halfway between Davidson College and the Lake Campus (next to the
Buttery & Beanery). It is open daily (except Tues.) from 12 p.m. until 7:30 p.m. Prices begin at a cool
$2. The Palace officially closes its gates on Oct. 31 (it will, however, reopen in April). So hurry up, y’all!

PSYCHIATRIC STUDENT COUNSELING CENTER WELCOMES NEW AND RETURNING STUDENTS
WE'RE HERE TO HELP....... IT WON'T COST YOU A CENT..... CALL US X 2451
