"same house. We are one family, one people, one house."

He concluded the speech, saying, “Walk with the wind. Let the spirit of history be your guide.”

At this point, he opened the floor to questions from the audience. Trenita Brookshire ’05 asked Lewis about the affirmative action case involving the University of Michigan currently before the Supreme Court. Lewis said he supports the University of Michigan, and that over 100 of his colleagues on the Hill have filed briefs supporting Michigan, as have large corporations like Coca-Cola based in his district. “We live in a diverse society,” he added. “Schools, universities, board rooms” need to reflect the diversity in America.

Marc Vinson ’05 asked next about the war, saying, “The house is shaking.” Lewis answered, “As citizens, not just citizens of America, but citizens of the world, we have to do everything in our power to stop this madness.”

At this, the crowded Tyler-Tallman Hall burst into applause before Lewis continued, “We have to use the technology. [In the 1960s] we had our bodies, our marching feet.” Now, protesters have other ways to become involved. “We don’t need to be quiet, we need to make a little noise,” he said, his voice thundering.

President Vagt asked a question. Speaking to the racially charged issues of the Georgia flag referendum, the University of Michigan case, and the debate over a Richmond statue, Vagt asked, “We ought to be pushing forward, and now we’re digging our heels in so we don’t go backwards. When change came before, it came because our leaders would listen, it came partially from Washington... Can we look to that guide?”

Lewis answered, “I’m not so sure that if the Civil Rights Act, the Voting Rights Act, were put before this Congress, that it would pass.

“We need leaders that are prepared to go with their heart, go with their soul.”

Damion White ’05 raised the issue of war again, asking if President Bush’s ignoring of massive protests wasn’t “a blow to our democracy.” A town member too raised the question of a national draft.

Lewis replied that “Dr. King used to say, ‘There is nothing more powerful than determined people.’” He said that prayer was a good and powerful tool, but it was also necessary to pick up one’s feet and get moving.

Lewis said he opposes the war and he opposes the draft, but joined with his fellow House Ways and Means Committee member Charlie Rangel of New York in calling for a draft to make a political point. “The question of sacrifices comes in,” he said, adding he hoped it didn’t come to that.

Sean Brooks ’04 asked about the willingness of many Americans to exchange civil liberties for security in the post-Sept. 11 world.

“I don’t think there is any room for that in our society,” Lewis said. “When they’re taken, they aren’t given back. We don’t want to live in a police state, we want to live in America. We don’t want to go down that road.”

After a stirring hour, Representative Lewis concluded his remarks and received a long, standing ovation from the crowd. He also concluded a day at Davidson that offered a rare, first-hand account of one of the defining times in America’s history and insight into our world today.

Nobel, from page 1

ate Research for his senior thesis on surface-absorbed helium at cryogenic temperatures.

Cornell then received his Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. His innovative research has been recognized by a number of awards, including the 2001 Nobel Prize in Physics he shares with Carl Wieman and Wolfgang Ketterle.

Dr. Tim Gfroerer, professor of physics at Davidson, has worked with Cornell personally and describes him as “an extremely gifted public speaker.” Gfroerer attributes Cornell’s abilities to his persona outside of the media. “For such an accomplished scientist, Eric is surprisingly down-to-earth in person and [he] can be quite funny.

“He is a creative thinker and a risk taker, but his scientific decisions are guided by a tremendous reservoir of knowledge and understanding. Hence, he has an uncanny ability to take the right risks.”

Those risks enabled Cornell and his researchers to observe the first Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) in a dilute gas. According to Gfroerer, Cornell’s work has many implications. “These BECs facilitate a whole new class of experiments that are just beginning to be realized. They provide a unique testing ground for exploring the fascinating world of quantum mechanics.”

Cornell’s presentation will take place at 7:30 p.m. in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room of the Alvarez College Union. The event is free and open to the public.

Off-Campus Housing

Interested in Applying for Off-Campus Permission for 2003-2004?

Please attend the MANDATORY Off-Campus Housing Meeting

(Any students desiring Off-Campus permission must attend this meeting).

Thursday, March 13th — 7:00 pm
Tyler-Tallman Hall in the Sloan Music Center

Residence Life Office
Phone: 894-2188 Fax: 894-2664

http://www.davidson.edu/administrative/residencelife/lottery.html