- A C Raa REAR AF IES Me EA ER AIBN ac SF FLT LOE SEN al

West African drum and dance troupe to entertain and educate

Using ballet-style performances to West African music, the South Carolina-based non-profit company, Djoliba Don, will tell stories of rites of passage, harvesting, and other life experiences common to the culture on Saturday in Duke Family Performance Hall at 7:30 p.m.

Orchestra to perform in memorable concert

Featuring violinist Susan Stroebel and trumpeters David Jemison and Eliot Palmer, the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra will present a concert of selections by Vivaldi and Mozart next in Duke Family Performance Hall at 8 p.m.

‘GNVine

2/10 Patterson Ct.
Damage to Property
Unknown person(s) broke a window pane out of a kitchen window.

2/13 Baker Sports
Larceny
Unknown person(s) removed two digital cameras from Baker Sports Complex without permission from the owners. Total loss is $1,500.

2/15 Patterson Ct.
Injured Student
Identified student was intoxicated and fell off of the back porch of a fraternity house, causing personal injury. Student was transported to the hospital.

2/16 Irwin Dorm Area
Damage to Property/Student Endangerment
Identified student was observed driving his vehicle on the sidewalk in a grassy area in front of Irwin dorm, endangering students’ safety in the process. Student has been referred to the judicial process.

2/16 Irwin Dorm
Damage to Property/Interference w/ Fire Equipment
Unknown person(s) damaged exit signs and emergency lights, causing $400 in damage.

Chambers renovation moving ahead of schedule
Construction should be done by 2004, not ‘05
By Joe Taylor
Staff Writer

According to the Director of Physical Plant David Holthouser, the $21 million renovation to Chambers will be completed by the summer of 2004, one year earlier than the original target date of summer 2005. Holthouser attributes the progress made on the three-phase project to efficient construction and a revised strategy.

“When we started, we (kind of) based the phases on an academic calendar, where the easiest time for faculty and staff to move is the summer. But if we were able to go through the inconvenience of a move occurring over Christmas break, that allows us to knock an entire year off of schedule.”

Phase One of the project involves the physical construction of the new wing, and will be completed by Commencement. Then, the faculty will be relocated into the new wing and phase two will begin. The process will be repeated for Phase Three.

The biggest problem with the project is the lack of temporary accommodations for displaced faculty and staff. “We're not actually creating the same number of new offices,” said Holthouser. Professors and administrators will be temporarily installed in various buildings on campus, including Cunningham and the E.H. Little Library. Once the project is completed, however, it will add 20,000 square feet of additional space onto the building’s current 140,000 square-foot dimension. The new wing will be comprised of six classrooms, twenty-eight faculty offices, two computer labs, and an atrium. Other improvements to the building will include upgraded energy efficiency, technology, and accessibility.

The renovation is the first since a $750,000 effort in 1969. “We’ve patched up our problems in Chambers with band-aids for years, and now we finally have the opportunity to solve them for a long time to come. It will allow our maintenance staff to shift from reactive work at fixing systems to the proactive work of preventative maintenance,” said Holthouser.

The restoration is an integral part of Davidson’s “Let Learning Be Cherished,” a$250 million campaign in support of student financial assistance, academic resources, and community life. 

Photo by Hannah Legerton

Davidson students smile for the camera during their trip to Nicaragua last spring break.

As spring break approaches, students finalize service trips

By Ros HErprick
Staff Writer

Students across Davidson’s campus eagerly await Spring Break for the promise of going home, seeing friends, and finally getting some rest. Other groups of students are preparing for a different kind of break—one that involves education, spirituality, and anything but relaxation.

The groups, sponsored by several of the religious organizations on campus, plan to take trips that will teach participants about the ways of life and faith in their various host nations. Students will venture as far as Nicaragua, Canada, France, and Italy on these excursions, each having its own distinct flavor.

The students venturing to Nicaragua will take part in a “reverse mission trip,” meaning that their goals are not to spread their own messages of faith but instead to take in those of their hosts. The group of thirteen students and two staff members will stay with Nicaraguan families, attend worship services, and meet with community leaders during the weeklong trip. The goal of the trip, according to its leaders, is to promote understanding of the bare nature of faith among all participants.

“We recognize that as North American Christians, our faith is shaped by our culture,” says Davidson’s College Chaplain Rob Spach, one of the group’s staff leaders. “By trying to understand how people in the midst of poverty and political oppression live out their faith, we hope to learn from them.”

The Office of the Chaplain and DCPC will co-sponsor the Nicaragua trip, which promises to be a positive learning experience for all who are involved. In fact, the group has already begun learning about the culture they will soon be experiencing, through a series of readings and lectures by Davidson professors. In these meetings, Spach says, the group members essentially familiarize themselves with the “conditions that will shape our experiences while we are there.”

“We feel like it honors our hosts in Nicaragua to know something about their culture, about the types of struggles they confront on a daily basis.”

In the same tradition of the reverse mission trip, Davidson United Methodist Church has organized a trip to a L’Arche community in Ontario, Canada. Within this Christian community, handicapped and physically able individuals live and work together. Davidson students will spend their Spring Break within the L’Arche environment, coexisting, worshipping, and working alongside its inhabitants. Kristine Harrington ’03, one of the trip’s leaders, emphasizes the overall importance of living in the community as opposed merely to doing service work within it, as outsiders.

“The biggest goal we have is to remind ourselves and each other that what we do isn’t as important as who we are,” she says.

Other Davidson students plan to venture to an ecumenical monastery in Taize, France, on a trip sponsored by the Methodist Campus Ministry, as well as to Italy with the Catholic Campus Ministry. The common bond amongst all of the trips is the importance of the communal experience of mutual learning and exchange of faith.

“We’re trying to see the world through the eyes of God’s love for all of his people,” says Spach. “And then we come back and try to live out our experiences.”

Time on your hands? Energy to burn? People to meet? Write for News. Contact Amee (ampatel) or Brandon (6rcarroll).