By STEVE Acer Staff Writer

When DMB fanatics rush to purchase “Some Devil,” Dave Matthews’ debut solo album, they might anticipate finding the same kind of jam-filled, percussion-intensive, violin and saxophone-drenched acoustic rock made famous by the Dave Matthews Band. If these enthusiasts can surrender this expectation, they should be in for a pleasant surprise.

Despite the minimalist connotations that “solo album” suggests, “Some Devil” actually feels more carefully manufactured than any previous DMB release. Without the baggage of four accomplished DMB counterparts, Matthews allows himself to douse his simple, subdued songs with some poppy studio tricks. The results are mostly encouraging. Matthews adapts more comfortably to mainstream music without his band than with his band, evidenced by the intrusively catchy “Everyday.” If “Some Devil” is any indication, he has an assured future ahead of him should his group ever disband.

The album opens with a burst of songwriting ingenuity in “Dodo,” the craftiest ditty on this CD and one of the finest tunes that Matthews has ever created. With the help of the Dirty Dozen Brass Band and guitar whizzes Tim Reynolds and Phish’s Trey Anastasio, this song touches on Matthews’s trademark sense of wonder and sets a soothingly funky pace for the remaining 13 entries.

To a certain degree, almost everything feels like a tribute to a different genre of rock. “Trouble” so completely captures the inspirational feel of latter-day U2 that if you were to replace Matthews with Bono, you would have a missing track from “All That You Can’t Leave Behind.” By “Oh,” Matthews completely shifts gears from classic rock odes to mellow, sweetly sung folk tunes in the vein of Jack Johnson. The lyrics “I love you oh so well/Like a kid loves candy and fresh snow” are delivered so casually and effortlessly that it doesn’t matter that they are sloppily assembled.

Strangely, the album’s weakest tracks are the ones in which Matthews clings too closely to his DMB roots. “Gravedigger,” the CD’s overproduced single, is adorned with strings, percussion, and an electric guitar; all it really needs is an acoustic guitar. Similarly, “Stay or Leave,” one of the best Dave Matthews love songs when heard out of the studio, is so elaborately arranged that its beautiful chords almost disappear under the track’s synthetic production.

Still, most of the gimmicks produce solid results. A slight echo on the title track creates an illusion of an empty arena, giving this electric guitar solo an aching loneliness. Also, the numerous contributions of the Seattle music group on strings instill an orchestral mood upon the album.

The “Dave Matthews Band” always has been a deceiving name for the Charlottesville rockers. This misnomer implies that everyone in the band who is not Dave Matthews is subject to the artistic sensibilities of Dave Matthews, which couldn’t be further from the truth. Dave Matthews contributes to one-fifth of the band’s singular sound, and this one-fifth is exactly what comes vividly to life on “Some Devil.”

On a side note, if you spell “Some Devil” backwards, you get “Live Demos.” I will let you decide whether or not it is a coincidence that the album comes with a bonus disc filled with a half hour of, you guessed it, live demos. Perhaps RCA tossed in these performances, compiled from the recent Dave Matthews and Tim Reynolds acoustic tour, to console die-hard DMB groupies who felt that their hero was alienating them.

On THE CAT WALK

Should mp3s be legal? By Derek Lon Arts & Living Editor

“Lost in Translation” is my favorite movie since Kenneth Lonergan’s “You Can Count on Me” (2000). Both films possess gentility and understanding that few American films are brave enough to show. In Bill Murray’s Bob Harris, it has a great performance and a character of contrasts: he is completely pathetic and instantly familiar. The key to his familiarity is his context, Tokyo.

The Japanese culture of “Lost in Translation” is pop, from eccentric television hosts and arcade games to shrines and role-playing prostitutes. Instinctively, we and Bob laugh at that which hardly phases the Japanese extras. He is familiar because we’re all in the same boat: the setting is foreign to Bob and to us. Bob is original in his plausibility. Unlike movies that exploit the mid-life crisis as a plot device (“American Beauty”), “Lost in Translation” treats Bob’s apathy not as a cause for celebration (“Beauty”’s flashy car and hunky body), but as something to explore and understand.

But to describe the movie from Bob’s perspective is to ignore its gem. I first saw Scarlett Johansson in “Manny and Lo” (1996), a movie about two orphan sisters. Johansson was 11 and gave an invisible performance. She was the best thing in the heralded “Ghost World” (2000). Murray and Johansson are ‘Lost’

You can dance By Andy Heston Staff Writer

I’m prettyExcited by the Rapture, a New York band who just released their debut, “Echoes.” As I was talking to someone about the Rapture, the friend asked if the name came from the Blondie song “Rapture.” While, as far as I know, Rapture the band has nothing to do with “Rapture” the song, the Blondie reference definitely points you in the right direction. The Rapture is unabashed ’80s revival, all tinky 808 synthesizer and disco bass lines; the same icy-cool of Debbie Harry and Ric Ocasek. Perhaps after almost 20 years, the guilt complex surrounding 1980s popular music is finally starting to dissolve. Will we finally be able to look past VH1’s “The Big ’80s” countdown and “The Wedding Singer” and stop thinking of 1980s pop as comedy? Questionable haircuts aside, I’ll take Duran Duran over Dispatch any day of the week. Sure, “Hungry Like the Wolf” may not be the most ambitious song in the history of rock. But it’s beautiful in its focus: it sets out to get you to have fun, and by the song’s end, you’re having fun. No manifestos. Just a great song.

However one feels about the 1980s, it’s impossible to overlook the Rapture’s courage in choosing that most controversial of decades as their inspiration. It’s not a particularly popular time to be an ’80s revivalist, particularly within the indie rock community, always so quick to turn on one of its own: how ironic that those who are most adamant about freedom in music are...

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2003

“Translation” Lost in Translation

Written and directed by: Sofia Coppola
Starring: Bill Murray, Scarlett Johansson
Running time: 105 minutes

Playing a 25-year-old, she is now 18 and with “Lost in Translation” is perhaps my favorite actress. Bob comes to Japan a disgruntled, once-successful actor. A whiskey maker offers him $2 million to endorse its product. Explaining his feelings on the job, he says, “I should be making movies.” Johansson’s Charlotte is the wife of a photographer (Giovanni Ribisi) who is shooting an up-and-coming rock band. She could be described as a tag-along, but we sense that she’s more of an escapist than an opportunist. She’s too smart to be just a trendy wife. Charlotte and Bob catch eyes at the bar. She sees his desperation and sends him a drink. He smiles in appreciation. A few days later they begin conversation, and it’s not long before their intergenerational friendship begins. They talk about life, marriage, and children. They party, go to dinner and dodge a laser-guided BB gun. Do romantic interests develop? Writer-director Sofia Coppola avoids an easy answer. As epitomized in the final scene, “Lost in Translation” doesn’t pigeonhole its characters and their feelings with explanatory speeches and words like “love.” Charlotte and Bob embrace, and he whispers in her ear something inaudible to the audience. She smiles, agrees, and they move on.

“Translation” is Coppola’s second feature-length film. (Her first film was an overzealous short called “Lick the Star.”) Her first feature, “The Virgin Suicides,” was an atmospheric study on trying to understand the impenetrable, and I loved it. I love “Lost in Translation” more. To borrow a friend’s thoughts on the film, “It’s perfect.”

The Rapture, though, is indie rock of a different breed. And frankly, they’ve had enough: enough of recycled Pixies/Sonic Youth/Fugazi retreads, enough of endless uber-pretentious post-rock crap, enough of jangly REM throwbacks. The Rapture have found a different place to trace their musical lineage: the Gang of Four and the Police, Prince and Michael Jackson. British punk meets American dance music seems impossible on paper due to the organic sloppiness of punk rock and the cold technology of synth-pop. But it works. Proof positive: it gets you dancing. And it’s the dance influence that is by far the most apparent thing upon listening to “Echoes.” No, “influence” sells it short; it is the Rapture’s unabashed love of dance music that is most apparent. I would feel remiss if I called the Rapture anything but a dance band. For whatever reason, that term conjures bad images of KC and the Sunshine Band or a wedding band playing “YMCA” for grandmothers and little girls. But the Rapture plays dance music like dance music was meant to be played. The songs, like all great dance music, are simple: the same three-note bass line for seven minutes, slashes of guitar, a synth riff that lodges in your brain, rock-solid metronomic drumming. The sum is greater than the parts: the band may take its cues from a specific point in musical history, but what the Rapture aims for isn’t parroting the ’80s: it’s the soul of rhythm and the rhythm of soul. And that is what dance music is all about.