Second ‘Wildcat House’ in five years nears completion
Money raised by chili cook-off, ‘hammerhead’ t-shirts helps to fund house for recent high school graduate
By Joe TAYLOR
Staff Writer

The Davidson chapter of Habitat for Humanity is about to finish its second Wildcat Habitat House. According to Kelley Hubbell ’03, co-chair of Davidson’s Habitat for Humanity, the house will be completed by graduation. “There will be a dedication before the seniors leave so that we can all celebrate the completion of the second Wildcat House,” Hubbell said.

The first Wildcat Habitat House was completed in 1997. The second project began on December 12 when the College transferred the lot at 535 Westside Terrace to Our Towns Habitat for Humanity. Since 1994, the College has transferred approximately eleven such lots to Our Towns Habitat for Humanity at little to no charge. Our Towns Habitat for Humanity, an affiliate of the Davidson College chapter of Habitat, has constructed 75 houses since 1998 around Davidson, Mooresville, Cornelius, and Huntersville. With their help, volunteers from Davidson College began construction on February 1, 2003. The project is nearly complete.

The Davidson chapter of Habitat for Humanity has been raising money for the project since April 2002, utilizing on-campus fundraisers such as the Chili Cook-off, Brick-by-Brick, International 21 Year Old Night, the self-selection dinner, Hammerheads, and profits from T-shirt sales and exam packs. Habitat for Humanity has also received financial assistance from the Bonner Community Fund.

“In order to build a Habitat House, it costs $55,000,” said Hubbell, who shares her leadership position with co-chairs Ann Marie Wesneski ’04 and Casey Sams ’03. “We also have the opportunity to build three houses in Guatemala for $60,500.” Hubbell attributes the success of the project to Davidson as a whole: “We have pretty much received support from faculty, staff, and students.” Hubbell also thanked Mary Kathryn Ross and Rosie Molinary, the community service advisors at Davidson, for all of their help.

Because of this community effort, another local family will have a home. Shanika Tuck, a 1999 graduate of North Mecklenburg High School, will live in the house with her child and her young nephew. Tuck will be able to move into her new home as soon as the Habitat group finishes painting the interior of the house, landscaping the exterior, and completing the siding. “She is really great and we have really enjoyed working with her,” said Hubbell.

The College chapter of Habitat for Humanity plans to continue constructing houses with local affiliates Our Towns and Cabarrus County. “Two new coordinators, Caitlin Kiley ’06 and Conor Mooney ’06, will be joining Ann Marie in the upcoming year to co-chair Habitat,” noted Hubbell. “I can’t say that we plan to fundraise for another Wildcat House right away, but it has been a great experience that has been really beneficial to everyone involved.”

Rusk plans fun & games to support Operation Smile
By ELIZABETH DEVLIN
Special Contributor

This semester, the women of Rusk eating house have been fundraising for the international organization Operation Smile. They have devoted themselves to bringing smiles to the faces of children with cleft palates and other facial deformities. Operation Smile’s website describes the program as “a private organization, not-for-profit, volunteer medical services organization providing reconstructive surgery and related health care to indigent children and young adults in developing countries and the United States.”

Rusk is hosting two events in April to support Operation Smile, hoping to raise enough funds to fully sponsor at least one operation. On Thursday, April 24, Rusk will hold a faculty basketball game at 7 p.m. in Belk Arena. Tickets will be $3 for students and children and $5 for adults. The following day, Friday, April 25, Rusk will kick off Spring Frolics with a Festival of Smiles from 2 to 5 p.m. The event will include activity booths, food, and live music on the Patterson Court Lawn. To learn more about Operation Smile visit their website at www.operationsmile.org.

3 on 3 Tournament
Sponsored by Dick’s Sporting Goods
Saturday, April 26th
Prizes include:
* Gift Certificate to Dick’s Sporting Goods
* New Spaulding Infusion Basketball
* FREE ticket to next season’s Davidson vs North Carolina game

For more information, or to register, go to http://www.davidson.edu/administrative/athletics and click on the Tournament logo link. $35 Registration for outside teams. Only $30 for Davidson teams. Call x2767, or stop by the Promotions office in Baker. Cat-Cards are accepted.

SGA spending comes under fire during allocation season
By GEORGIE AHRENDT
Staff Writer

Despite the annual proverbial struggle to fit a 400-pound woman into a size two dress, as ATC members describe their task, last night’s approval of this year’s allocations is not the end of the drama. In particular, this semester, SGA has spent money from their ATC-allocated special projects fund on donations to charities such as the Tim Hayes’ Fund and the Humane Society. Whether or not this is a legitimate use for the money, which is intended for student use, is up for debate.

The Activities Tax Council, a subcommittee of the SGA, is responsible for allocating the student activities tax, which is built into each student’s tuition fees. While SGA is entitled to fundraise instead of giving money, this shows more effort and concern on our part than just writing a check.a check and gives real-time and shows how much the students care,” said Elizabeth Matthews ’04, vice-chair of the ATC. By all accounts, these donations were contrary to the intentions guiding the ATC allocations. There is, however, no specific clause in the bylaws of the SGA that dictates how money should be used. The ATC is currently working on a constitution that will clarify these matters in the future. “When parents pay the activities tax fee, they are paying for their students to participate in activities on and off campus. While this may seem selfish, this money is not meant for donations to outside charities,” said Matthews. The money allocated to the SGA is intended for events such as SGA day, staff appreciation day, and class picnics. Money also goes toward the Vamonos Van, buses to athletic events, and the red community bicycles. “I think it is our responsibility, along with all of the student organizations and the SGA, to spend the Activities Tax Fund in the best interest of the students,” said Matthews.

ATC tackles thorny payment issue during deliberations

At issue: can student organizations pay volunteers?

By Ros Heidrick
Staff Writer

The Activities Tax Council, the board responsible for allocating funds to student activities groups across campus, is in the midst of a debate centering on the monetary compensation of leaders of student activity groups. The issue at hand focuses on deciding which student employees could receive payment for their services, and which will not. The decisions faced by the council are extremely controversial due to the selective nature of the allocations. Essentially, if council members did decide to support payment of student employees, the line would be difficult to draw in terms of which students deserve compensation.

William Brown, Coordinator of Student Activities and ATC member, outlines the debate as a contention between practical financial concerns and a desire to spark motivation and dedication in student leadership. “On the one hand, where do you stop? If you pay the presidents of some organizations and the vice presidents of some organizations, how far down the line do you go?” asks Brown. “But some people have felt that it has been in students’ best interests to be paid, because they have been able to generate more revenue than their volunteer predecessors.”

ATC Chair Amanda Mildner ’03 stresses that the council’s position is fairly unanimous in its position against further student compensation. “While we understand why they want to do this, we feel it is unnecessary for several reasons,” says Mildner. “First of all, we would be opening the floodgates for every student in a leadership position to get paid. Secondly, students join these organizations to give something to the community and to be part of the life on campus. You don’t do this to get paid. Finally, we expect most of the organizations to generate much of their own revenue.”

The Activities Tax, which is accumulated from one percent of each student’s tuition (about $250 per student), makes up about $395,000 in funds that the council distributes to each of the various campus organizations. Each year, according to Mildner, requests for funding exceed actual monies taken in by the tax. “This year the buzzword has been that [allocating the funds] is like trying to fit a 400-pound woman into a size 2,” says Mildner.

Certain student positions are already compensated by ATC funds because of “grandfather” clauses within those organizations. These positions include the SGA Chancellor, the SGA Treasurer, and the Davidsonian editorial board and delivery staff. Other positions are prevented from being compensated by ATC restrictions. For example, the ATC stipulates that none of its funds are permitted to go to direct charitable donations, because the funds come from tuition and are intended for use by students to improve life on campus. In addition, ATC guidelines restrict payment of certain specific employees, such as Davidsonian writers.

Positions currently being reviewed for compensation include these Davidsonian writers, as well as WALT Core DJs and the Wildcat Handbook editor. The ATC allocates funds to each of these organizations, but as of yet, none have been given the go-ahead to pay their student employees. ATC member Brandon Carroll ’06 expresses his concern for the need for control over the use of ATC funding. “Times change, but I do not think it would be wise to throw open those floodgates without making clear in written form the circumstances where paying would be permitted, or at least fundamental principles that ought to guide organizations and the ATC’s allocations,” says Carroll.

Carroll also points out that some organizations, such as the Davidsonian and WALT, raise a large portion of their own funding, and thus are not totally dependent on ATC money. “The Davidsonian will bring in revenue to cover 71 percent of its cost next year, even though we planned to begin paying staff writers,” says Jeff Larrimore ’04, business manager of the Davidsonian. “Personally, I feel that the Davidsonian ought to be able to reward its staff writers, especially when our costs are decreasing.”

The debate will continue on into next semester, after the SGA outlines its budget for the next school year. Once the ATC has a clear picture of next year’s funding, it will likely meet with student leaders to further discuss the matter.