School Supports University of Michigan Law School Admissions Policy

By Emily Bostian
Staff Writer

Davidson has joined 27 peer institutions in filing an amicus, or “friend of the court,” brief with the United States
Supreme Court in support of the University of Michigan’s law school’s admission policies. Amicus briefs can be filed by any
organization, other than the parties in the contested case, that has a stake in the outcome of the case.

Though Davidson is a small, private school and the University of Michigan is a large, public university, the larger issue
being considered by the Supreme Court case involving the affirmative action policy is broad enough to include the College. This
case has drawn unprecedented numbers, and more than 300 organizations have filed briefs. Others who filed amicus briefs in support
of the University of Michigan include Nike, American Express, 60 members of Congress, General Motors, Coca-Cola and Pepsi, Tom Daschle,
Hillary Clinton, and John Edwards, and even some members of the military. Three times as many briefs were filed in
favor of Michigan than against. Those against include the White House and the Center for Individual Rights.

The Case

Informally referred to as ‘the University of Michigan case,’ Grutter v. Bollinger, 02-241 and Gratz v. Bollinger 02-516 are a
combination of lawsuits involving white students suing the University of Michigan undergrad and others suing its law school for discriminatory
practices. Michigan’s undergrad uses a point system in which ‘underrepresented minorities’ receive 20 points out of a possible 150 in
the admission process. The law school, on the other hand, uses a system very similar to Davidson’s admission process.

College President Bobby Vagt says Davidson’s admissions policy looks at each candidate on an individual basis and considers many factors
including grades, SAT scores, class rank, special achievements, musical talents, artistic talents, athletic ability, special academic and extra-curricular interests, legacy
status, geography, and socio-economic status, as well as ethnicity and race. He emphasized that “the bar is never lowered”—everyone must
be able to do the work and perform to Davidson’s standards.

There are many possible outcomes of this case, from a full affirmation of Michigan’s undergrad point system to a decision
barring colleges from using any factors other than grades, SAT scores, and class rank. Conceivably, this decision could prevent Davidson
and other liberal arts colleges from using

2003 Phi Beta Kappa New Members

Ashley Powell Alderman
Lauren Elaine Baker
Elizabeth Jeanne Barnes
John Peter Campbell
Allison Cecile Carroll
Andrew Paul Christopherson
Christina Elizabeth Cooke
Sarah Elizabeth Curl
Thomas Lane Estes, Jr.
Meika Renee Fields
John Andrew Foster
Kristine Lynn Grayson
James Robert Gregory
Elizabeth Anne Gross
Elizabeth Bazemore Halligan
Kristine Jo Harrington
Brandon Keith Hood
William Townsend Humphrey
Iain Muidlecsie
David Paul Johnson
Soran Morgan Johnson
Amy Lauren Johnston
Jennifer Fay Kawwass
Jason Greer Lake
Charles Robertson Lea
Andrew Goodman Leventhal
Tyler Grant Lovellette
Emily Grace McCown
Robert Alexander McLean, II
Tania Rae Therese Markowski
Sharon Elizabeth Meidt
Isaac Andrew Miller
Sydney Butler Montesi
David Zachary Moskowitz
Sheila Natarajan
Rebecca Nunan
Mike Wimsatt O’Hara
Emily Elizabeth Oldham
Ashley Margaret Price
Patrick Marion Rice
Lisa Diana Robinson
Phillip Dean Smith
Mary Margaret Sommerville
Elizabeth Sawyer Spitz
Victoria Anne Statler
Bryan Gregory Stevinson
Rees Les Stewart
Mary Juanita Stokes
Elizabeth Anne Super
Elise Marie Tabata
Pearry Green Tarwasokono
Jarrett Tyler Welsh
Catherine Jean Williford
Mary Kathryn Wilson

College Files an Amicus Brief in Supreme Court Affirmative Action Caseany of those other factors in making an admissions decision.

The Brief

Davidson’s amicus brief, signed in conjunction with 27 other selective small liberal arts colleges, supports only the Michigan law school’s
approach to admissions, not the point system of the undergrad. While framed in the legal issues, the brief primarily argues
practical issues. The main point is that colleges need diversity, including racial diversity, to create a true learning environment for
their students, and that the only way to achieve diversity is to seek it directly. Vagt says, “We feel the
experience of the white students is enriched by the presence and contributions of non-whites, and vice-versa, and so we pay
attention to it.”

The brief emphasizes the negative consequences of a decision against the University of Michigan, stating, “Moreover, research and experience suggest
that for small, highly selective, largely private colleges like amici, carving out race from all the other kinds of diversity
that colleges consciously aim for will have a predictable, substantial resegregating effect, probably moving the black students from roughly five
to seven percent of the student body to two percent or so.”

Addressing the suggestions made in the White House’s own amicus brief, Davidson’s brief argues that systems based on “admitting a
percentage of each high school class, or focusing on class or economic circumstance without looking at racial background,” which may
work for large state schools, are completely impractical for small selective colleges. Such a system works more effectively in Texas
and other areas where some high schools are still very segregated.

Discussing the effects not only on the colleges themselves but also on society at large, the brief highlights the lives
of several esteemed individuals who benefited from affirmative action. The brief ends with the point that true academic freedom ought
to allow colleges and universities the right to choose students who will, “individually and collectively, take the fullest advantage of
what the college has to offer, contribute most to the educational process, and use what they have learned for the
benefit of the larger society.”

Arguments in the case begin April 1 and the Supreme Court’s decision will have a significant impact on the future
of Davidson College admissions.

Omicron Delta Kappa 2003 new members

Omicron Delta Kappa (ODK) is a national leadership honor society which recognizes students for leadership in campus or community service,
social and religious activities, athletics, student government, journalism, and the creative and performing arts. Juniors and seniors who have significantly
contributed to campus life in one of these areas and who are ranked in the top 35% of their class
are eligible for ODK membership. Current members of the Davidson College Chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa feel that the following
students deserve to be recognized with this award.

Emmanuel Amos-Abanyie
Patrick Bruce Baetjer
Melinda Clare Baldwin
Elizabeth Jeanne Barnes
Christian Blake Bergeron
Laura Corinne Bondesen
Mary Faith Carpenter
William Adam Chalker
Emily Marie Drew
Zachary Luke Farmer
Susanne Elizabeth Francis
Katharine Parker Giguere
Kristine Lynn Grayson
Kristine Jo Harrington
Allison C. Heck
Megan Newport Kota
Andrew Goodman Leventhal
Michael Kelly McDonald
James Riley McNab III
Griffin Robert Myers
Emily Elizabeth Oldham
Chandra Nicole Payne
Elizabeth Erwin Pinchak
Susan Grams Robison
Sara Ellen Romeis
Cassandra Marie Sams
Elizabeth Kathleen Smith
Sarah Gay Stackhouse
Victoria Anne Statler
Jan Scott Swetenburg
Pearry Green Tarwasokono
Kathryn Hope Tate
David Cantihen Tolley
Emily Marie Van Leeuwen
Mary Kathryn Wilson
