- The DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2003 3

Red bike return gets green light
By ALICIA JANOS
Staff Writer

The return of the famous Red Bikes means a decrease in the amount of time it takes students to trek to class and risks an increase in the amount of campus vandalism. There are currently about 19 red and yellow bikes, including 12 original bikes that were donated by a bike auction and painted safety red. Since the Red Bike program began in 1993 by Katharine Turner, Davidson Outdoors (DO), with the collaboration of the SGA, has increased the number of bikes available on campus. One bike is assigned to each hall on campus, whose job it is to decorate and oversee that the bike remains in excellent condition. Every bike is equipped with a sign that reads, “For use by students/faculty/staff. Please park on campus,” a reminder that the Honor Code is not applicable outside of the college.

Bikes are bought from the money received from bike auctions and by retrieving vehicles that have been abandoned by previous seniors. Recently, DO received about $400 from Public Safety from a nearby bike auction in efforts to expand the program. DO also received about $600 from SGA for the red bikes this past year and an additional $300 from the College’s bike auction. About $200 of the total $900 was spent on renovating the old (red) bikes, while the rest went to purchasing the new yellow ones seen around campus. Ed Daugherty, Director of DO, explained that, “Originally, we attached the lock to the bike so it wouldn’t get lost,” and that bikes should be locked up when off campus, using the code word CATS.

Although the available bikes are slowly increasing in number, there remain many issues with “people who witness [acts of vandalism] and don’t report it,” said Daugherty. Past acts include students hurling bikes off of balconies, failing to report damaged vehicles, and even leaving them at the Cornelius Public Library. In addition to these acts, Amir Vaez ’07 said, “When there’s nothing else to do, we take the bike on joy rides up and down the hall.” As a result of these individual acts of vandalism, Daugherty is “more worried about slowly changing the campus culture so that people appreciate the resources more,” rather than focusing on the actions of select people. Daugherty estimates that the cost of bicycle repairs reaches $300 every year, with each bike costing about $225 to replace.

SGA President Charles Washington ’04 said, “Part of the deal of DO taking the red bike program over from SGA was that we would continue to fund the repairs and replacements that would certainly be necessary in the coming years.” The SGA gave DO $30,000 last year for their entire budget, with part of it dedicated solely to the red bike program. SGA Vice President Katharine Hubbard ’05 said, “I personally think it is a great program and is a symbol of the community that Davidson fosters... DO seems to be doing a great job in their ownership of the program.” The goal of the program is to make it to the end of the year with all of the bikes “intact and operating” in order to continue increasing the number of bikes on campus next year. “If we can get 70 or 80 bikes out there, I think it would be more appreciated as a resource,” said Daugherty. Any information regarding damaged bikes should be reported to Davidson Outdoors (x2623) for repairs.

Photo by Dorsett Clark
A community bike waits to take another weary student home.

Trustees, from page 1

President of Rodgers Builders, Inc., indicated that Davidson was founded with the assistance of the Presbyterian Church and should not stray too far from its Presbyterian roots. “I think it’s very important for the school to continue with the vision it started with,” said Rodgers. According to Dr. Rick Gay of the Education Department, private colleges are not governed by the same rules as public colleges. Although the Establishment Clause of the U.S. Constitution prohibits public, federally funded institutions from promoting or favoring a certain religion, private schools are not bound by this clause. Since there is less federal oversight of private colleges, they are permitted to set many of their own religious standards. A Presbyterian college since its inception in 1837, Davidson, by nature of its private status, is free to maintain its Christian ties. The College’s religious orientation is reflected in such official documents as the Bylaws of the Board of Trustees.

Rogers believes that Davidson benefits from having a Christian Board. He explained that the trustees are already diverse in terms of “expertise,” race, and economic class and worried that by dropping Article I Section 4, “trustees’ tolerance of diversity on campus would diminish.” Paul Davis, trustee and president of Colville Group, mentioned that Article I Section 4 “has been brought up a number of times in the past” at Board meetings. Rogers concurred, adding that he had heard the issue was last discussed in the early 1990s. Davis indicated that the requirement that trustees be “active members of a Christian church” would likely remain because Article I Section 4 is ingrained in the Bylaws. Nevertheless, Article VIII of the Bylaws permits trustees to sponsor amendments to articles. Amendments take effect if they are introduced at one Board meeting, then “adopted by a two-thirds vote of the Trustees present at a subsequent regular or called meeting.”Gay said, “The Board of Trustees really is in charge of the direction of the college. They’re the ones that hire the president and that kind of thing, so [amending the Bylaws] is pretty much in their hands.”

Students to vote on bylaw change of Union Board position
By Blair McGraw
Staff Writer

The Student Government Association announced plans for Tuesday’s SGA Night and Wildcat Red Day at its weekly meeting. That night, Davidson men’s basketball plays at Texas Tech at 9 p.m. on ESPN, and the game will be shown on the big screen TV in the 900 Room. SGA and the Cat Pack are sponsoring Wildcat Red Day, during which “everyone wears school colors,” Katrina Papadopoulos ’04 said. That Tuesday, all students are encouraged to wear red throughout the day. During the game, the SGA will also be serving ice cream and sundaes in the Union as well as passing out gift certificates for businesses around the area. In keeping with its goal of improving school spirit, the SGA hopes to teach the Davidson fight song to the students who are watching the game, perhaps with the help of the Generals. There will also be an opportunity to sign up for the Cat Pack that night. Papadopoulos said it’s an opportunity for “everyone to come together and show school spirit.”

Student body will vote on Bylaw change
The SGA also approved a change to the bylaws for the Union Board. The current bylaws provide for two vice presidents, but Union Board President Adam Sperling ’04 was on hand to explain that now only one VP is necessary. The old bylaws applied when there were more Union Board committees than there are currently. Sperling said that it had not really been a problem but that it would be “simpler to have one.” Students will have the opportunity to vote on the changes through an electronic referendum that will be sent out by Nov. 20.

SGA Debates MLK Day Activities
Assistant Dean of Students Ernest Jeffries was present to talk to the SGA about increasing campus awareness about Martin Luther King, Jr. day. He wanted to know “specifically what it is we can do to get students to participate.” He explained that currently a musical program is scheduled for the Sunday before the holiday, and a Monday morning convocation was also planned, with different workshops later in the day. Dean Jeffries said the convocation was “one thing we really want to emphasize.” Several senators thought that bigger, more high-profile events were necessary to spur student interest. Elizabeth Redpath ’04 suggested a debate or dialogue about race on campus and also said an MLK 5K run might be worthwhile to try. Dean Jeffries expressed interest about the idea of the 5K run. The ideas of showing a movie and having more night events were also brought up. SGA President Charles Washington ’04 stressed the importance of advertising the holiday, especially through word of mouth.

Batten, from page 1
Government does not always act in the people’s interests, and that the press must act as a watchdog to keep government in check. McGuire’s second radicalizing experience came from his two classes he is teaching this fall at Davidson, “Bias and Ethics in the News Media” and “Openness and Secrecy.” While impressed by the intelligence of the students, McGuire spoke of being surprised at the number of students who sounded like the “stuffy prickly pragmatists” that he learned to question after Kent State. Earlier that day, he said, “I do have some issues with this stiff, cynical pragmatism that I see. I think, no matter if you’re liberal or conservative, you gotta be dreaming, you gotta be aspiring, you gotta be hoping, you gotta have great faith. And I worry about that.” He emphasized that a responsibility to the common good should motivate actions, instead of “cynicism of self-interest.” He worries that many of his students at Davidson and young people as a whole rely too much on self-interest. “Many people seem convinced that everything in the world is driven by self-interest, and they march out a lot of scientific evidence and objectivist thought, and all that. And I basically say, you can take all that, but that’s no way to live.”

McGuire applied his idealism to many current media issues. He spoke strongly against what he perceives as a deterioration of the quality of public debate in the media. “What I decry and what I will decry tonight is the shrillness of the dialogue,” he said. “I think it’s ugly, it’s unacceptable and it’s not going to benefit any of us. And I fear the young people especially are being convinced that’s the way the dialogue should be conducted.” McGuire advocated openness and greater dialogue from the media as a solution. “I think that if you talked about it more, if you wrote stories about it... For example, everything Rush Limbaugh said today, or everything that Al Franken is contending, you’d hold them accountable, and you’d pull them both off the polars.” He also urged the audience to “get radical” about journalistic standards. He said that “dangerous cowboys” on the Internet who hold no standards and report anything are in danger of “pushing media towards the abyss.”

1-800-648-4849 / www.ststravel.com