‘Angels’ creative, politically challenging; opens Thurs.

By Curtis SCHMADER
Arts & Living Editor

Beginning this Thursday night, the Davidson theatre department will dramatize the 1980s, a decade that witnessed—among other things—the eight years of Ronald Reagan’s presidency, the rise of AIDS and its effect on notions of sexual freedom, and the coming of age of the so-called “me generation.” The theatre department will tackle this period, along with themes that extend beyond the era in question, in its production of Tony Kushner’s Tony Award and Pulitzer Prize-winning play “Angels in America, Part One: Millennium Approaches,” which will run from Mar. 20 to Mar. 23 and again from Mar. 27 to Mar. 29. Showtimes are 8 p.m. each night, with the exception of a 2 p.m. matinee on Mar. 23.

Kushner’s play, the content of which brooked local controversy when a touring company attempted to stage it in Charlotte eight years ago, will bring to the fore political issues that do not typically receive their fair share of attention at Davidson—issues such as public and private attitudes toward homosexuality, the nation’s reaction to the spread of AIDS, and the formation of identity through categories such as race or sexuality. Director Ann Marie Costa, associate professor of theatre, said that part of the reason the theatre department chose to produce “Angels” was because “here at Davidson we tend to be very good about tolerating differences, but beyond that we really don’t cross borders in allowing people from different walks of life into our world. It’s fun to do a play that focuses on the crossing of barriers.”

“Angels in America,” however, promises to be more than the sum of its politics. This production will give students the opportunity to see their classmates interpret an artistically ambitious piece of theatre. “It’s one of the few contemporary plays that’s written in the style of a Shakespearean play,” said Costa. “It’s amazingly poetic, and it deals with simultaneous, numerous themes, as opposed to many contemporary American plays that tend to be about one theme.”

Set in New York City in 1986, the play centers on developments in the lives of two couples. Prior Walter (Bill Neville ’03) and Louis Ironson (Ryan Hastings ’05) are gay lovers whose relationship receives a traumatic blow upon news that Prior has contracted AIDS, and Joe Pitt (Parker Dixon ’03) and his wife Harper (Beth Gardner ’03) are a Mormon couple struggling with Joe’s closeted homosexuality and Harper’s agoraphobia and drug addiction. Rounding out the cast are Alan Stevens ’04 as the real-life public figure Roy Cohn, a politically powerful, secretly gay lawyer who publicly renounces homosexuality; Sara Romeis ’03 as Ethel Rosenberg, a historically real Jewish woman who was executed during the McCarthy era as a result of Roy Cohn’s illegal interference with her trial; Marc Vinson ’05 as Belize, a black nurse and former transvestite who is Prior’s close friend and Roy’s caretaker; and Anna Jensen ’03 as Hannah Pitt, Joe’s mother. (Jensen and Romeis play other characters in addition to their principal roles.)

The student actors involved in the production have relished the opportunity to act in a play that is challenging on so many levels. “This cast has gotten really close, partially because of the level of commitment to the piece. We care deeply about Kushner’s words and doing them justice,” said Gardner, who acknowledged the play’s potential to unsettle. “There’s a lot of material within this play that certainly challenges us and makes us uncomfortable, which theatre is meant to do. It’s meant to open us up to different ways of looking at things and different ways of thinking, but not necessarily to tell us how to think.”

Regarding his character’s suppressed homosexuality and the fact that all the male characters in the play are homosexual, Dixon thought that “Angels in America’s” focus on male sexual identity is...Just one important thread in the web of meanings constructed by the play. "As far as addressing the homosexuality of this character, it’s been an interesting experience exploring it as an actor, but I honestly wouldn’t define Joe Pitt by this characteristic. Nor would I use homosexuality as the defining characteristic of this play. There’s a more essential truth the play drives at. It addresses the basic human need for company. Homosexuality is merely one facet through which this play communicates this meaning."

Though the Davidson community’s reaction to the play’s depiction of homosexuality and AIDS has yet to be seen, eight years ago a New York-based touring company’s plans to produce “Angels in America” in Charlotte faced stiff opposition in the form of protests from religious fundamentalists. These protests caught the attention of then-senator Jesse Helms, who used his political clout to force the cancellation of the production. The Davidson production of “Angels in America” is not likely to find its run prematurely ended, but Costa wouldn’t mind if the play created a stir on campus so long as the Davidson community came out in force to see the performances. “I get the sense that there will be very little controversy because people just won’t come to see the play. This is a play about humanity; it’s a play about people falling in love, falling out of love, and about individuals feeling very disconnected in a technology-driven society. Come see the play and then decide if it’s controversial.”

Complementing the theatre department’s performances of “Angels in America” will be an exhibition of a recent project by visual artist Larry Jens Anderson. The Atlanta-based artist’s work is entitled “The Angels Project,” and it will be on display in the Knobloch Campus Center’s Brown Atrium throughout the run of the play. There will also be a series of panel discussions that will address issues raised in the play. The first of these will take place on Friday, Mar. 21, from 4:30 to 6 p.m.; the second on Friday, Mar. 28, from 2:30 to 4 p.m.; and the third on Mar. 28 from 4:30 to 6 p.m. To be sure, the next two weeks should find Davidson animate with the beating of angels’ wings.

What Do You Think?

What was your reaction to President Bush’s speech on Monday?

“I would say that though I don’t agree with his justification for war, he came off as very well spoken and he did a very good job of representing himself and the country despite people’s differences of opinion.” 
— Merin Frank ’06

“Despite all his justifications for war, I have serious reservations about whether or not it’s seriously good for the country or national security.” 
— Matt Eble ’04

Bound For Graduate School? Strategies to Gain Admission to Highly Competitive Graduate Programs (Don Asher, presenter) Tuesday, March 18, 2003, 5:00 p.m., C. Shaw Smith 900 Room

Cracking the Hidden Job Market—"How to Beat 1000-to-1 Odds to Land Your Dream Job!" (Don Asher, presenter) Tuesday, March 18, 2003, 7:00 p.m., C. Shaw Smith 900 Room

Etiquette Lunch (1:00 p.m.) & Dinner (5:30 p.m.) Thursday, March 27, 2003, 1:00 p.m. and 5:30 p.m., Dupont Room

The Senior Class Gift has reached 42% pledged + paid participation! Many seniors still have outstanding pledges to The Senior Class Gift. Log on to https://www.davidson.edu/giving to pay your pledge. When the Class of 2003 reaches 75% PAID participation, President and Mrs. Vagt will donate $12,003 on behalf of the Senior Class Gift to the Annual Fund. Support Davidson and show your class pride!

Upcoming events:
- Senior Banquet: Dinner and fun with your classmates, April 30
- President’s Party for the Class of 2003: May 7, Bobby’s backyard
- Senior Dinners, sponsored by the President’s Office, continue throughout the academic year

“The use of force has been decided by Saddam Hussein because he has decided to stay in power and confront the U.S. and the coalition of the willing. Saying that the speech was a declaration of war is a misunderstanding of the issue.” 
— Max van Amerongen ’04

“He kept repeating that they’ve taken all the measures to solve the problem peacefully, and I really don’t think that’s true. I disagree with him and I’m really against the war.” 
— Danielle Choi ’04