Overdone ‘Anger Management’ only manages to anger moviegoers

“Anger Management”’s teaming of the great Jack Nicholson and the consistently funny Adam Sandler should have made ideal conditions for
a great comedy, the type constantly quoted by the public and imitated by future filmmakers. Well, good news and bad
news. While the film includes some funny moments, hilarious performances by actors John Turturro and Woody Harrelson, and some great
cameos (by basketball coach Bobby Knight among others), this over-the-top screwball comedy becomes inconsistent and annoying.

Dave Buznik (Sandler) has always been pushed around and demeaned by others, and his self-esteem has suffered the consequences. Whether
confronted by the neighborhood bully as a child (in one of the funniest scenes of the film) or his demanding
boss, Dave Buznik never fought back ... until now. While on a plane to St. Louis, Buznik’s innocent attempts to
get the attention of the flight attendant spiral out of control, landing him in court and in anger management classes
run by Dr. Buddy Rydell (Nicholson). However, Buddy’s abnormal techniques fuel Dave’s anger rather than curing it.

This premise could have produced a classic, but the result is a disappointment. While the performances of Sandler and Nicholson
are as good as the material allows, the supporting cast steals the film. Attending his first session of anger management
classes with Dr. Buddy Rydell, Dave meets an odd assortment of characters including Chuck, played by John Turturro. Turturro’s performance
as the confrontational madman with a heart is, in a word, hysterical. Any word or movement can propel Chuck into
fits of rage. As the movie progresses, the audience waits to see what will set Chuck off next and the
comedy that results.

But for a movie that includes the skillful Sandler and Nicholson and the incredible performance of Turturro, “Anger Management” becomes
too outrageous and suffers as a result. With one moment of over-the-top comedy seemingly trying to exceed the last, “Anger
Management” attempts to resolve the conflicts established during the film in a sentimental ending. The ending tries to justify Dr.
Buddy Rydell’s antics and the destruction of Dave Buznik’s once calm lifestyle, an ending that annoyed and angered this reviewer.

While “Anger Management” offers a poor chance for the teaming of star Adam Sandler and legend Jack Nicholson, this first
pairing will hopefully not be their last.

Sandler and Nicholson in the midst of anger-related high jinks

By CANNON Hope Special Contributor

Joseph Francis and the rest of his “Girls Gone Wild” crew kicked off their “Smart Girls Gone Wild” college tour
at Davidson College this weekend. Many Spring Frolickers were shocked to discover Francis & Co. lugging around camera equipment and
snagging video clips of Davidson girls acting as they never before have. “Ohmigosh!” says one female student, “It’s, like, so
crazy that this is happening! I’ve, like, never done anything like this before! I can’t believe that I let them...See
my swimsuit top! I’m so wild!” The “Girls Gone Wild!” crew was flanked by yet another celebrity. Jason Biggs, the
“American Pie” actor who achieved fame through quite embarrassing antics, joined the “Girls Gone Wild!” bus tour. “I think that
‘Ivy League’ students are underrepresented in the college party scene. Even though [Davidson girls] are smart, it doesn’t mean that
they can’t flash a video camera and squeal.” Biggs was spotted squatting near the cotton candy booth during most of
the afternoon. Francis admitted to enjoying Spring Frolics, “I think that this is a good location to start our new
college tour. This is a great mix of innocence and naughtiness. It puts a nice spin on my videos.” Francis
spent most of his day near a plastic pool filled with questionable-looking water, “I mean, why aren’t these girls having
a chicken fight or something? Does anyone want to have a wet-T-shirt contest or anything?”

Most video clips were taken near the carnival area where cameramen instigated a campus-wide mud fight. One of the cameras
was ruined when a beginner cameraman attempted to videotape students while hopping around on the cowboy moon bounce. Another cameraman,
accompanied by a handful of students, was found inside of a fraternity refrigerator, “Dude. This is some crazy [stuff], man.”
Some Davidson students, however, were disoriented and angered by the voyeuristic presence. “It’s just plain tacky,” states a Davidson junior,
“Davidson has an image to maintain and [Francis & Co.] are exploiting our cherubic nature as well as the girls
that they’ve captured on video. It’s just an asshole thing to do. This is a Presbyterian institution, we really should
uphold those foundations.” Campus officials declined to comment.

Girls who participated in Francis’ video clips received a polyester-cotton blend tank top that yielded the “Girls Gone Wild!” logo.
Francis told Davidsonian reporters that this T-shirt quality was better than those that he gives to “Girls Gone Wild!” spring
breakers. Francis and his team left the Davidson College campus early Sunday morning.

Editor’s note: None of the events described in the above article occurred in any reality external to Ms. Hodge’s mind.

Summer concert preview: Big money artists to hit Charlotte
By Lucy Lona
Staff Writer

Staying in Charlotte for the summer? Then check out these upcoming concerts in the area to keep you tuned.

The Eagles
Thursday, May 22
8 p.m.
Charlotte, N.C.
Charlotte Coliseum
Tickets $45-$175

Tim McGraw
Sunday, May 25
7:30 p.m.
Greenville, S.C.
Bi-Lo Center
Tickets $29.75-$59.75

James Taylor
Friday, May 30
7:30 p.m.
Charlotte, N.C.
Verizon Wireless Amphitheater
Tickets $20-$45

Fleetwood Mac
Sunday, June 1
8 p.m.
Greenville, S.C.
Bi-Lo Center
Tickets $48.50-$125

Red Hot Chili Peppers
Friday, June 6
7 p.m.
Charlotte, N.C.
Verizon Wireless Amphitheater
Tickets $31.50-$41.50

Norah Jones
Monday, June 16
8 p.m.
Charlotte, N.C.
Ovens Auditorium
Tickets $27.50-$47.50

Boston
Saturday, June 16
8 p.m.
Charlotte, N.C.
Verizon Wireless Amphitheater
Tickets $15-$35

Journey, REO & Styx
Friday, July 25
7:30 p.m.
Greenville, S.C.
Bi-Lo Center
Tickets $15-$35

All tickets found at www.ticketmaster.com. Have a great summer!

Photos courtesy www.yahoo.com
