The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

@ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2003

First Class
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC

VOLUME 95, NUMBER 8

FRIGHT NIGHT

Spooky tales bring past to life

Exploring the College archives
for haunted tales from the past

By Cristie Kivsy
Staff Writer

No dark, stormy night necessary: Davidson’s best-known ghost story began on a crisp November morning in 1921.

A fire of unknown origin furiously consumed the Chambers building, which then housed classrooms and a residence wing. Before a fire company from Mooresville could arrive, Chambers was demolished.

College President W.J. Martin summoned students and faculty to the Old Well where they sang a school victory song together. Behind them, in the smoke, stood only a few hollow columns.

During years of dry weather, material from the original Chambers foundation still rises through the soil and leaves a distinct outline of the old building.

The ghost is now best visible from the third floor of the new Chambers building which was erected behind the ruins of the original. Any unbelievers may visit the Davidson archives for photographs.

Another ghost story in the making

Jan Blodgett, College Archivist for nine years, has been busy of late piecing together another Davidson mystery that may prove frightening to many a pre-med.

see Ghosts, page 4

Top officials outline State of College

Parents hear about police tactics, tuition, diversity efforts

By Matt Garfield
Editor

About 200 parents gathered in the 900 Room on Friday for the College’s version of a shareholder’s meeting — the annual State of the College address.

College President Bobby Vagt opened with a 20-minute speech, then answered audience questions with help from Dean of Students Tom Shandley, Dean of Faculty Clark Ross, Dean of Admission & Financial Aid Nancy Cable, Vice President of College Relations Kristin Bradberry and Director of Athletics Jim Murphy.

Among the highlights:

- The 492 members of the freshman Class of 2007 comprise the school’s largest class ever.

Beginning next year, Vagt said the College would aim to decrease the size of future classes until the population returns closer to 1,600 students.

- The College will take a “breather” from major construction projects after Patterson Court and Chambers renovations are completed next year, Vagt said.

- Tuition increased by 3.8 percent last year compared to a national rate of eight percent.

“We’re not particularly proud of that, but it’s as low as we can make it,” said Vagt, also pointing out that financial aid increased by 14 percent.

see Address, page 3

Eight Richardson dorm rooms robbed in break-in
Police seek four suspects for questioning

By Sarah-Grace Wesley
Staff Writer

A string of break-ins occurred on three floors in Richardson Hall this past Saturday night.

The intruders entered eight rooms on all-male floors and stole a collective sum of $519 from 13 students. While some residents were robbed of $5 to $10, others had as much as $200 taken.

There are currently several suspects, including three individuals from outside of the College community and an unidentified lone individual. The police are now looking for these individuals for questioning.

According to Director of Public Safety Fountain Walker, even if a perpetrator is now out of state, he or she can still be extradited and tried in North Carolina. Breaking-and-entering is a felony, and the person(s) responsible are wanted on eight counts, he said.

Hall Counselor Brad Lifford ’05 had a few dollars taken but was angered in light of the especially large sums taken from his hall.

“I’m more upset about my residents being stolen from than myself,” he said.

President Bobby Vagt expressed the sentiments of many members of the community regarding what he calls “a basic optimistic view of human nature” that is taught at Davidson.

He said many students feel that they do not have to lock their doors and when “something like this happens, it comes as a slap in the face.”

Richard Shayegan ’07 had over $50 taken and said that he will be locking his door from now on. “I can’t believe someone came in while we were sleeping, and we didn’t wake up.”

see Robbery, page 2

Cost of vandalism repairs exceeds $12K
Future of ‘community projects’ at risk

By Blevin Shelnutt & Sarah-Grace Wesley
Staff Writers

Since the beginning of the fall semester, numerous acts of vandalism have occurred throughout campus, incurring over $12,000 in repair costs.

Intruders have broken into both Warner Hall and Turner eating houses and have smeared food on the walls and floor. Additionally, Warner Hall reported that trespassers have broken windows and left on a gas stove overnight.

Along with the destruction of the houses, several lampposts on Patterson Court as well as Martin Court have been damaged. According to Campus Safety Director Fountain Walker, the total replacement and partial repair of lampposts alone has amounted to an estimated $10,500.

In more extreme vandalism cases, CoHo Eating House and the Kappa Alpha Fraternity were both recent sites of attempted arson. KKK graffiti was also discovered four weeks ago on a sidewalk outside of the laundry facility and on a wall adjacent to the Belk Computer Lab.

Furthermore, many students have reported the destruction of personal property by their peers. In one instance, a student’s plastic lawn chairs were taken and smashed against a brick pillar.

Dean of Students Tom Shandley comments, “I think every time vandalism happens students who care about this place are upset and angered.”

Leslie Marsicano, Director of Residence Life, reports that RLO has billed specific individuals $1,072, and an additional $1,110 for unclaimed damages has been billed to

see Vandalism, page 4

SPORTS: Football team stays winless at home

Men’s soccer beats Furman, secures 1st place in SoCon

SPORTS, PAGE 12