Fine Arts & Living Editor

“About Schmidt” is one of the more depressing movies I’ve seen in a long while. It’s not Holocaust-movie depressing; it’s
more that-dude-is-pathetic-I-hope-I’m-never-like-him depressing. Here is a movie about a man who is lonely and knows he is lonely, but doesn’t
have the social skills to do anything about it. In that sense, “About Schmidt” is rather monotonous. There’s not much
character development: he ends the movie just as pathetically as he began it, which isn’t always a bad thing.

Warren Schmidt’s wife dies and leaves him with an Adventurer mobile home, too many knickknacks, a daughter, and not much
else. He retires from his job, which leaves him with time and money. His life is loveless and empty. His
one friend betrays him. He painfully, yet subtly, discovers that in spite of his retirement party, he was all too
expendable. As for his daughter, he and she might love each other, but there’s so much disapproval and resentment between
the two that any proof of their love exists only at airport gates. A widower in his sixties with nothing
and no one to live for. So begins the story about Schmidt.

The script, written by Jim Taylor and director Alexander Payne, puts Warren in that Adventurer and sets him on the
road from Omaha to Denver for his daughter’s wedding. “About Schmidt” is a road picture to the core, but it’s
no buddy movie. This is pretty much as lonely as movies get. The trailers and TV spots present the film
as a comedy. Indeed, I laughed a lot. But as Warren putters on in that Adventurer, it becomes clear that
he will putter on alone.

That’s not to say the film itself is boring. It’s full of many bizarre and often hilarious situations. The movie’s
most inspired moments occur while Jack is at a mobile home park. There he meets a couple, and the three
discuss mobile homes, life on the road, and life in general. After a little too much “truth serum,” the female
half of the couple tells Warren that she can see he’s a sad man. She’s right, Warren knows she’s right,
but being the man he is, his reaction is miscalculated. Their meeting ends as it should, and as Warren drives
away, we’re laughing at what has just happened, but if we’re going to show emotion, shouldn’t it be tears?

The movie has a clever way of chronicling Warren’s thoughts. Motivated by Angela Lansbury,

---

Check this new Arts & Living feature each week to see what your fellow Davidsonians are saying. This week’s question:
What is your favorite Dave Matthews song (and why)?

“My favorite is ‘The Space Between,’ because it’s very musically interesting and emotional.” - Susan Robison ’04

“I like ‘The Dreaming Tree,’ because, despite its meditative sadness over the loss of dreams and ideals, it conveys a
sense of the harmonious beauty of existence.” - Jonathan Wu ’04

“Mine is the original ‘Two Step,’ because it has a Latin twist that the album version doesn’t have.” - Lee
Wheless ’05

“My favorite is ‘Crush,’ because I love the lyrics.” - Melissa Patterson ’05

movies.yahoo.comWarren sponsors a child in Tanzania, little Ndugu. With just $22 a month, Warren provides Ndugu with medicine and a
chance at a better life. Lansbury’s organization encourages its supporters to write to their adopted children. Throughout the film, we’re
periodically treated to “Dear Ndugu” voiceovers. The first time I heard the words, “Dear Ndugu” on the soundtrack, I laughed
and laughed and laughed. I was the only one in the theater who laughed. As Warren wrote more letters, the
rest of the audience began to laugh, while I no longer found humor in the phrase. I think the audience
missed the point. “Dear Ndugu” is funny the first time and sad the rest of the time. It’s funny at
first because it’s ridiculous: an American man in his sixties pouring his heart out to a 6-year-old boy in Tanzania,
a boy who doesn’t know English, who doesn’t know how to read, who cannot relate to any of his problems.
That is very funny. But Warren continues to write to Ndugu, simply to express his pain and thoughts. All he
needs is an ear. That is pathetic and sad, not funny. I’m not necessarily saying that the audience was stupid
and mean and that I am smart and sensitive—to the audience’s credit, hearing Jack say, “Dear Ndugu” is, to a
considerable degree, inherently funny. My point is that the film’s tone could be confused for comedy. I think much of
that confusion has to do with casting. Jack is not right for Warren Schmidt. Jack is a big movie star.
He is Jack. Maybe Jack can play a wide range of roles, but at this point in his career, a
pathetic Midwesterner is not one of them. He’s had sex with Lara Flynn Boyle. That’s more than men like Warren
Schmidt dream about. Here, his star power is a distraction. But to be fair, can you blame anyone for casting
Jack in any movie? I can’t complain about the rest of the cast. As Warren’s daughter, Hope Davis creates a
character that doesn’t feel out of place. She’s exactly what we’d expect in Warren’s offspring: calm on the surface, but
full of pain and anger on the inside. As ridiculous as he is, Dermot Mulroney’s awkward son-in-law is always funny
but never over-the-top. However, it’s Kathy Bates who steals the show as the mother of the groom. Come March, it’d
be nice to see her name on an Oscar. This review may sound a bit unenthusiastic, which probably is a
correct assessment. I really wanted to love “About Schmidt.” There’s so much that’s great in this movie, but I think
it would play better with a different leading man, at least someone who needs a last name to be identified.
Maybe Nicholas Cage in twenty years? My dad’s golfing buddy? Spoiler ahead: The final moments of “About Schmidt” are especially
poignant and appropriate. When Warren cries while looking at Ndugu’s painting, is it because he is happy? Or because he
finally realizes how pathetic he is? I think it’s the latter, and if you disagree, you probably laughed every time
you heard the phrase, “Dear Ndugu.”
