By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

The Easter Bunny delivered goodies to the track teams early. Both teams competed in the SoCon meet Easter weekend and topped off a great season with some impressive performances.

On the women’s side, Allie Martin ’06 got a nice bag of goodies with her team-leading fourth place finish in the 1500m in 4:48.02, while sophomore Ashley Griffith followed close behind in eighth in 4:57.85. In the field, Amanda Yeck ’04 led the way as usual. Her sixth place in the high jump (1.55m) helped the team earn its 10th place finish. She also competed in the two-day heptathlon where she finished ninth.

“In training for the heptathlon, I improved significantly in all the events,” said Yeck. “In the high jump, 5’3” was a personal record I had not beaten in five years!” Even the Bunny himself—with his own impressive vertical jump—was impressed. Anna Brew had a strong showing as well, coming in ninth in the steeple with a time of 12:21.57. The Bunny was speechless, rewarding her instead with beaucoup gifts the following morning.

“Records were broken; PRs were set, and our goals for next season will keep us working hard in the off-season,” added Yeck enthusiastically. “Our team was young this year, so we’ll be lucky to have a great group of returning athletes.”

For the men, junior Greg Scott led the way with his fourth place finish in the 1500m (3:55.06) and eighth in the 800m. His prelim 800m time of 1:53.54 was less than a second away from the Davidson school record held by Dan Gibson. Too bad he melted all his candy with his blazing speed.

Jimmy Swansbrough and Greg Schernecke—both graduating seniors—each had their part in the Easter action as well. Swansbrough ended his steeplechase career—hopping hurdles and puddles not even the Bunny would challenge—with a sixth place finish and a season-best time that places sixth best all-time for Davidson performances. Schernecke got double the candy, as he contributed in two placing sprint relays—the 4x100m (Schernecke, Andrew Pratt ’04, Chris Rouisse ’04, and James Taylor ’06) and the 4x400m (Pratt, Schernecke, Taylor, and Paul Wyatt ’05).

“It felt really great to pull together a quite respectable time for the conference meet for the relays,” said Pratt. “All of us worked hard during the season, and it appeared to pay off.”

Schernecke, holder/partial holder of multiple school records; Swansbrough, holder of numerous Davidson top performances in cross country and track; and 10K specialist Brad Becken ’03 will all be missed.

“Each has had an outstanding career at Davidson and is a four-year letterman. Leaders in their own way, they have had a positive impact on the team,” said head coach Gary Andrew.

In the 400m hurdles, Johannes Norling ’04 earned his chocolate bunny after fighting out a seventh place finish. “There were some really gutsy performances out there,” said 10K runner Chris Schmader. “On the whole, the guys stepped up when it mattered most, and the team ended the season on a high note.”

A little lagniappe Easter treat was the men’s cross-country team being honored as a 2002 All-Academic Cross-Country Team as recognized by the U.S. Cross-Country Coaches Association. “The guys have shown that at Davidson you can train and race at a high level while maintaining high academic standards,” said Andrew about his team’s 3.25 GPA. It’s the fifth consecutive year for the team to earn all-academic honors, requiring a 3.0 GPA, while it’s the first with distinction (3.25 GPA minimum).

Cross-country, indoor track, and outdoor track have now all passed. There’s little rest for these athletes, though, as the distance runners prep up for the cross-country season. While the Easter Bunny snuggles up...In his home for the summer, these men and women will put in the miles after long working days in preparation for another grueling season of fun and excitement. “It’s time to show our stuff,” said junior Ben Gaspar. “May, June, July, and August will make or break our season.”

Greg Schernecke
Philadelphia, Pa.
Track

Every time you put on a Davidson uniform, you represent the college in a way no other student can. Your individual or team achievements are more than just yours, they are Davidson’s, and you are instantly placed in a rich history of sports success that is more than any athlete alone. Athletics teaches a modesty and a selflessness that one can only learn when they are part of something bigger. Furthermore, you learn friendship and compromise that is fundamental to being a social entity, something that athletics at Davidson prides itself on. I am proud to have been able to experience four years of athletics at Davidson, and I consider the time I have put into my sport some of the most gratifying hours of my life. As I leave, I hope that the current and future athletes at Davidson understand how vital they are to the college atmosphere and cherish their place as Wildcats.

Loren Seaton
Moorestown, N.J.
Lacrosse

I know years from now I will not remember the number of games we won or lost, or the number of ground balls I had in the 2003 season. In my opinion, that is not what athletics are about. When I remember my years as a college athlete, I will always remember what it means to be a member of a team. I am lucky enough to know 21 girls who share my passion and love for the game of lacrosse. It is love for the game that brings individuals together, but it is dedication to each other that makes a team. Over the last four years, I have been blessed with a team that has become my family. Girls who I am barely friends with have dropped everything to help and support me when I needed them. Through athletics, I have learned a lot about being a leader, but more importantly, about being a friend. My experience as an athlete has been wonderful because of the girls I have shared it with.

Hussein Nasreddin
Atlanta, Ga.
Men’s Soccer

The Davidson men’s soccer program is one built and characterized by relationships, not only between players and coaches but also, more importantly, between each individual member of the program. The team rapport in the Davidson locker room is unlike that of any program across the country, and it continually proves to be a critical element to any success the team witnesses. Over the years, our program has come to be known as a “giant killer,” consistently upsetting and defeating top-10 programs. While these victories may surprise and amaze the general public, to members of the program they are simply a testament to the energy of the coaching staff and the hard work of the players. The off-field chemistry built in relationships between members of the program comes to create the on-field magic that is Davidson Soccer, something I am truly proud to say I was a part of in my four years as a Davidson student.

Reggie Patterson
Women’s Tennis
Hometown: Raleigh, N.C.
Major: Undecided

Women’s Tennis at Conference
Baseball at Wake Forest
Track and Field at Conference
Golf at Southern Conference
Lacrosse at Northwestern

Patterson garnered all-conference honors for the second straight year. Only a sophomore, Patterson has shone brightly at the number two singles spot, and with partner Lindsay Powell has also been a force at two doubles.

Lacrosse at Notre Dame
Baseball vs. Charlotte
Baseball at South Carolina (through Saturday)
2:30 p.m. (through Saturday)
(through Sunday)
4 p.m.
4 p.m.
7 p.m.