sopntnenceesoempnnntet ses ones

"Ambassador to speak on global trade: This year's Alumni Reunion Weekend lecturer, Ambassador Charlene Barshefsky, will speak at 10 a.m. on Saturday, April 5 in Duke Family Performance Hall. Ambassador Barshefsky served as President Clinton’s U.S. Trade Representative and helped negotiate historic trade agreements with China and Mexico. Admission is free, but tickets must be reserved at the Union Ticket Office, or by calling 704-894-2135.

Asian-American poet to read work on disability culture: Johnson Cheu, a poet who explores Asian-American and disability identities in his work, will have a reading on Friday, April 4 at 4 p.m. in Semans Auditorium of Belk Visual Arts Center. Mr. Cheu’s visit will coincide with the publication of the anthology Screaming Monkeys: Critiques on the Asian American Image from the Year 2000, which features a selection of his poetry.

Jazz Concert scheduled for Saturday, April 5: The jazz concert will take place in the Hayes Amphitheatre beside the economics building.

Chamber Singers Spring Concert: The Chamber Singers and Women’s Choir, conducted by Dr. Raymond Sprague and accompanied by pianist Patricia McBrayer, will give their annual spring concert on Tuesday, April 8 at 8 p.m. in Tyler-Tallman Hall, Sloan Music Center. The Chamber Singers will perform music of Vivaldi, Victoria, Sandstrom, and others, and the Women’s Choir will make their debut appearance with music by Bach, Mendelssohn, and Schubert.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

3/25 Breaking and Entering Baker Sports Parking: Unknown person(s) willfully entered and removed items located within a student’s Jeep. Total loss is estimated at $150.

3/26 Damage to Property Martin Ct. Residence Halls: Unknown person(s) willfully discharged a fire extinguisher in a room. Personal property was damaged as a result of the incident. Total damage is estimated at $1,000.

3/25 Damage to Property Baker Sports Parking Area: Unknown person willfully cut a convertible top in an effort to apparently gain access to the student’s vehicle. Damage is estimated at $700.

3/25 Breaking & Entering/Larceny Upper Satellite Parking Area: Unknown person(s) willfully entered and removed items located within a student’s vehicle. Total loss is estimated at $1,500.

3/25 Breaking & Entering/Sexual Offense Residence Halls: Known person entered a closed dorm room and committed a sexual offense within. Campus Police were alerted to the incident and were able to identify and arrest the offender. Offender was transported to the Mecklenburg County Jail where he remains under $150,000 bail.

3/30 Alcohol Violation Patterson Ct. Eating House: Identified student was transported to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center for potential alcohol poisoning. Student was treated and released.

3/30 Alcohol Violation Patterson Ct. Fraternity House: Identified student was in possession of alcohol under the age of 21.

3/30 Alcohol Violation/Urinating in Public Residence Halls: Identified student was seen urinating out of the second story window of a residence hall. Student was also in possession of alcohol when under the age of 21.

3/29 Alcohol Violation Patterson Ct.: Identified student was in possession of alcohol under the age of 21.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously at x2178.

Reviving the WALT 1610 strives to gain campus interest
By KATHYRN WYLE Staff Writer

WALT 1610, Davidson’s student radio, is seeking to increase its listener base as one of many goals to improve the station. Currently, the station is the victim of a vicious cycle. As station manager Lauran Halpin explains, WALT cannot attract more listeners without a more visible, easy-to-find bandwidth, and the administration feels unwilling to offer financial support without demonstration of a greater audience base. The situation appears to be at an impasse. In spite of the catch-22, WALT is working to improve. With increased publicity and visibility, such as the schedules posted in dorms, the ads in Chambers, and a new, soon-to-be-displayed professional banner for the Union,Halpin hopes to keep 1610 AM at the forefront of the discerning listener’s mind. The station is also offering increased services, such as MP3 formatted shows available on the web. Courtesy of Martin Zahra ’06, the downloads make it possible to catch up on a show that perhaps conflicted with other commitments. They are available from WALT’s website, www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/walt/walt.html. With funding barely covering operating costs of the building and licensing, WALT now also offers a DJ service to help deal with extra costs. Other end goals WALT wants to accomplish include broadcasting via streaming audio, enabling anyone to tune in over the Internet. At present, the AM signal of WALT is somewhat weak, and students complain that some locations on campus are unable to pick up the broadcast clearly. More broadly, streaming audio would allow WALT to serve more than just the campus: parents, alumni, and townspersons could all listen as WALT broadcasts sports, lectures, and discussions sponsored by various departments. WALT could also re-broadcast excerpts from campus productions such as the Vagina Monologues, or lectures like Cornell West, for those unable to attend the first time around. ITS is resisting the move to online streaming audio over issues of money and bandwidth priority. The campus has streaming capabilities at present, but they are reserved for classes. If students are to listen to WALT primarily online, another line and even greater bandwidth would become necessary, or the college Internet provider would become clogged, leading to choppy broadcasts and poor connections to the outside web, possibly disrupting research and other academic activities. Currently, WALT’s selection is varied enough for even the most eclectic palate. Forty DJs run shows from 7 p.m. until midnight most nights of the week, and music plays without the chatter the rest of the time. Slowly, WALT is gathering more attention from the community, and that pattern will likely continue or accelerate as the station implements its plans for the future.

Dave, from page 1

That sales would be strong—particularly among students. “We did have some who wondered if the acoustic tour would have the kind of draw a band show would,” said Brown. “We knew Dave Matthews’ strength in this area would be significant. Every survey we’ve done about concerts over the past five years, Dave has been right at the top.” Matthews, Reynolds, and most of their crew arrived on campus early Tuesday afternoon and dined on short ribs, fish, vegetables, and beets before the show, said Lee Ann Bannerman, Assistant Director of Union Programs. Three hours later, the two musicians walked off stage, boarded their tour bus, and made a quick exit to I-77 with the help of a police escort. The stage crew stayed behind to pack up equipment and head to Old Dominion University in Norfolk, Va., for a concert the following night. Union organizers hired several student volunteers to help the stage crew, and the group finished the job just after midnight, less than an hour after the show ended. The only glitches, said Bannerman, involved lobby lights that took a few too many minutes to be turned off, and a Baker Sports Complex parking lot that filled too quickly because students weren’t asked to remove their cars in advance, as is custom prior to men’s basketball games. However, those problems didn’t dampen an otherwise memorable evening. “The production team was very pleased,” Bannerman said. “They couldn’t have been any more complimentary of the staff and students. At the end of the night, they said, ‘you guys were great.’ That’s always nice to hear.”