Just another

By Steve KALISKI
Staff Writer

The lure of a John Grisham adaptation must be too strong for anyone in Hollywood to resist. “Runaway Jury,” the
scribe’s latest legal melodrama to hit the screen, has one of the most impressive casts ever assembled in an ordinary
film, and I’m not even talking about the main stars. Granted, John Cusack, Gene Hackman, and Dustin Hoffman are no
B-grade headliners, but it’s the almost endless barrage of familiar faces in supporting roles that will make this movie the
supreme power of the “six degrees of separation” game. You will probably recognize about 20 character actors in significant roles
here, and you will definitely spend much of your viewing experience trying to figure out where you’ve seen them before.

This vague sense of familiarity is the problem with “Runaway Jury.” It unfolds in such a frantically busy two hours
of overwrought plotting that nothing tangible ever has a chance to sink in, except for the fact that the whole
mess is 100 percent unbelievable. If one-tenth of what this movie depicts about our law system is true, then the
judicial branch should seriously consider letting Boy Scouts handle our trials in the future.

Before devolving into its far-fetched contrivances, the film begins with a frightening scene of office violence. A disgruntled worker goes
on a murderous rampage through his office, killing a big shot stockbroker (Dylan McDermott). Two years later, the victim’s wife
embarks on an elaborate lawsuit against the manufacturers of the killer’s weapon, hoping that a victory would signal a fatal
wound to firearm availability in the United States.

Enter the scumbag lawyers and their sleazy interests. Given the implications of the case, both sides want to secure the
best jury possible for their desired outcome. The defense hires the sketchy Rankin Fitch (Hackman) to tamper with jury selection
and to scare the chosen jurors into mindless cooperation. The prosecution (led by Hoffman) wants to play by the rules
but sees no legitimate way to keep pace with Fitch’s subversive schemes.

In the middle of all this is Nicholas Easter (Cusack), a conniving video game salesman who squeezes his way onto
the jury so that he and his girlfriend (Rachel Weisz) can manipulate both sides for maximum profit. Or does he
have ulterior motives? Or do we really care?

It’s easy to see why this is one of Grisham’s most popular novels; its earnest moral and potentially searing legal
commentary would probably translate well to the escapist page. But under the slickly vacant direction of Gary Fleder (“Kiss the
Girls,” “Don’t Say a Word”), “Runaway Jury” gets so caught up in its twisty plot that it never pays due
respect to the meaty gun control issues it pretends to address. On screen, the story is just a bloated homage
to its source material. Weighed down by mixed motivations and ridiculous premises, “Jury” fails in creating a high stakes, dangerous
sense of drama.

Cusack and Weisz remain charming enigmas for most of their performances, and Hackman does his typically evil impersonation of an
intimidating chain smoker. Only Hoffman’s conflicted Wendell Rohr strikes an emotional chord. Torn between his integrity and a compulsion to
win the case by whatever Machiavellian means necessary, Rohr represents that isolated lawyer of nobility that we have come to
love from Grisham’s stories. Unfortunately, “Runaway Jury” loses Hoffman amidst its overwhelming swarm of heavily populated action. But, hey, if
second-tier actors like Bill Nunn, Bruce McGill, Nick...Searcy and Jeremy Piven are your cup of tea, then go for it.

Philadelphia Center | Education at Work

LIVING THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2003

Super Furry Animals have super-short attention spans
By Andy Heston
Staff Writer

We live in an age unlike any other. We live in the age of Attention Deficit Disorder. What began on
the margins is now a foundation of pop culture. It’s everywhere. It is only through a superhuman effort that I
am able to maintain any sort of focus for long enough to write this review. I begin this way because
if any band is able to represent our twenty-first century cultural ADD, it is the Super Furry Animals.

Listening to their latest album, “Phantom Power,” is like being swept away by an avalanche of musical cross-references. As I
was listening, my mind ricocheted from link to link, influence to influence: “Sweetheart of the Rodeo” meets “Dark Side of
the Moon,” the sun-kissed California bliss-pop of the Beach Boys, the distorted T. Rex chunky guitar of glam rock (Bowie
glam rock, not PiKA glam rock), the elaborately arranged Nick Drake-on-Bryter-Later instrumentals, Elvis Costello-style pseudo-torch ballads, etc., etc., etc., etc.,
etc.

“Phantom Power” is nothing if not a scattered listen. It’s as if the Super Furry Animals are intent on cramming
every idea they’ve ever had, every record they’ve ever listened to, and every section of their favorite music store into
one 52-minute roller coaster ride of an album. Songs start off one way and quickly abandon their logical path of
development, bridges appear out of nowhere, and the whole thing is pretty much all over the place. It’s almost like
the Super Furry Animals aren’t sure what kind of band they want to be: they have some consistent lyrical themes,
particularly cutesy animals and obscure references to the Iraqi war (“Ninja jihad/ Suck my Oil--huh?) but as far as any
musical cohesion, it’s hard to believe the same band is behind “Liberty Belle” and “Sex War and Robots.”

Given such stylistic genre hopping, it’s rather difficult to find any sort of cohesive sound to the album. To be
honest, I’m still working on it myself. At the end of the day, it’s not about how many names are
dropped; it’s the effect of the album on you. And while my jury’s still somewhat out on this album as
a whole, I like the way things are going. The overall effect is like entering an alternate universe: Super Furry
Animal-land. It’s bizarre, and it’s disorienting, and it’s surreal, but like the stylized cartoons that make up the album’s liner
notes, it’s also benign and inviting, and whatever craziness ends up happening, you know you’ll have fun. It’s like a
musical funhouse: there seems to be no frame of reference, nothing to cozy yourself up to, but then you realize
it’s all just smoke and mirrors. As initially meandering and unfocused as some of these songs seem, they’re such nice
and cute little journeys that you don’t mind at all not knowing where the Furries are leading you.

“Phantom Power” is far from perfect, though I’m far from finished listening to it. This is an album you can
listen to a million times and still have something come out from nowhere to surprise you. Even on the rather
lame tracks, there’s a couple of cool little drum fills, electronic noises, and overdubbed melodies.
