CDhe Davidsonian

@ “THE SOUTH’S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2003

First Class
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC

VOLUME 95, NUMBER 7

CCRL to hear cable argument

By Ross Heidrick
Staff Writer

The Council on Campus and Religious Life will soon evaluate the proposal for cable in student dorm rooms.

The CCRL is a board composed of several key Davidson administrators, faculty, and students. Sophomore Class President Jack Hubbard ’06
plans to present the issue to the CCRL on Oct. 23, when the board will announce its recommendation.

While the CCRL meets, a recent Residence Life survey suggests support for cable among the students. An online poll begun
today by the SGA could further reinforce those findings.

Hubbard, who began his cable campaign last spring, says that having cable access in individual student rooms is vital to
a modern college campus.

“In today’s world, cable TV serves as a major artery of information,” he says. “Students are unhappy with the cable
situation, between disappearing lounges, disagreements over what should be on the television, and Adelphia’s horrendous service. It’s time for change.”

see Cable, page 5

Family Weekend Highlights
Friday, October 24

State of the College Address
4 p.m. (Smith 900 Room)
Annual Autumn Feast
5 p.m. (Vail Commons)
Music Department Showcase
7 p.m. (DCPC Sanctuary):
Davidson Jazz Ensemble
10 p.m. (Smith 900 Room)

Saturday, October 25

Fall Convocation
10:30 a.m. (Duke Perform. Hall)
Family Tailgate Picnic
Noon (Chambers Lawn)
International Festival
Noon (Union Atrium)
Football vs. Austin Peay
1 p.m. (Richardson Stadium)
Music and Dance Concert
4 p.m. (Chambers Lawn)
Music & Dance Concert

Not getting any (dates)?

OPENING NIGHT

Five trustees claim posts on ruling board

Latest appointees will fill specific needs in serving College

By Leslie Hempson
Staff Writer

Five new trustees were elected by the Board of Trustees Nominating Committee and the Alumni Association over the course of
the past few months in a process that culminated on Oct. 10.

Four of the five trustees, Sherburne Laughlin, Stephen Salyer, Kevin Hanna, and Wallace Millner were elected by the Alumni Association,
while the fifth, Todd Thomson, was elected directly by the Nominating Committee.

Trustees are eligible to serve two four-year terms, and elections are held roughly once a year. The qualifications that potential
trustees must meet are not as stringent as they have been in the past. President Bobby Vagt said, “There was
a time, not too many years ago, when every member of the Board of Trustees had to be approved by
a Presbytery.”

Although at least 16 trustees must be members of the Presbyterian Church (USA), the rest may belong to other denominations.
The 16 Presbyterian trustees, however, must all be confirmed by their respective Presbyteries.

President Vagt explained this requirement by citing Davidson’s long-standing affiliation with the Presbyterian Church. He remarked that Davidson attempts “to
respect and stay tied to that faith heritage but at the same time, [recognize] who we are.”

see Trustees, page 4

Traffic changes get green light

Police step up patrols, attempt to slow drivers

By Sarah-Grace Wesley
Staff Writer

The Town of Davidson received a grant from the Governor’s Highway Safety Program in June of 2003 that will allow
the Board of Commissioners and the town police department to make needed changes in enhancing pedestrian and cyclist safety.

These changes in traffic enforcement and various physical aspects of the intersections in town come in response to safety concerns
related to increasingly high volumes of traffic on Main Street and Concord Road.

Meredith Judy ’99, current member of the town’s Traffic Safety Committee, says that the committee is now in the process
of signing contracts with engineering firms.

Some of the coming improvements include building brick crosswalks for better visibility and extending the curbs at intersections farther into
the road.

These changes will be implemented at the intersections of Main Street at Concord Road, Depot Street at Main Street, Lorimer
Road at Con-

see Traffic, page 4

photo by Kenny McCaughey

Weekday gridlock on Main Street in its all-too-frequent form.

Your guide to this year’s hottest Halloween costumes

A&E, PAGE 6

SPORTS: Men’s soccer faces Furman Saturday SPORTS, PAGE 11
