DAVIDSON COLLEGE
The D
"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2003
First Class U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1 Davidson, NC
VOLUME 95, NUMBER 9

By Lesley HEMPHILL
Staff Writer

Davidson students are almost evenly split in their support for U.S. efforts in the Iraq war, according to a survey
conducted by Dr. Pat Sellers’ Public Opinion class. The survey, which was e-mailed on Oct. 16 to a random sample
comprising half the student body, revealed that overall, approximately 49 percent of students either strongly or somewhat disapprove of U.S.
efforts, while almost 51 percent of students somewhat or strongly approve. An additional e-mail, sent by Vic Lindsay ’04 to
the Young Democrats mailing list, encouraged all club members to participate in the survey and threatened to skew the results.
After carefully analyzing the data, Sellers and his class determined that Lindsay’s e-mail had no effect.

Students divided on support for Iraq war
Recent poll finds 51% approve of intervention

Since the survey was a class project, Sellers’ students created the questions, designed the survey format, and analyzed the results.
Besides the war in Iraq, they measured attitudes toward the file-sharing of music and diversity on campus, among other things.
The class was also interested in discovering if students would alter their initial opinion of U.S. efforts in response to
theoretical developments in Iraq. Those theoretical developments included the discovery of Saddam Hussein and weapons of mass destruction and an
increase in U.S. casualties. To measure changes in attitude, the class presented each respondent with a second set of questions
based upon their original approval or disapproval of U.S. efforts in Iraq. Sellers explained, “If a respondent...”

See Survey, page 2

Students find cheaper textbooks overseas
Buyers wait for latest national trend to hit home

By AMANDA STEPHENS
Staff Writer

Significant price disparities between domestic and international textbook prices have encouraged many college students to purchase texts from overseas markets.
To avoid the traditionally long lines and exorbitant prices of college bookstores, many students are using the Internet to access
cheaper textbooks. A recent study done by the NY Times showed remarkable differences in pricing. For example, the Lehninger Principles
of Biochemistry, Third Edition costs $146.15 on the American-based Amazon.com. However, the very same textbook costs $63.48 on Amazon.co.uk. Even
with the cost of shipping and handling, which the NY Times calculated to be $8.05, the book is still far
cheaper when purchased overseas.

Some students have begun to profit from the outrageous price disparities. In an effort to combat the high bookstore prices
at Williams College, two juniors started their own website, BooksCentral.com. Other students have begun purchasing overseas texts in large quantities
and selling them to their fellow students.

See Textbooks, page 3

Should the church embrace a gay bishop?
PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 8Cornwell Returns to Alma Mater

DAVIDSON: Patricia Cornwell spoke Monday morning at a press conference.

Study: Duke Women Feel Pressure to Be Perfect
Do Davidson students feel the same way?
By ALLISON WHITEMAN
Staff Writer

More and more undergraduate women are expressing dissatisfaction with gender problems they face. A study released by Duke University last
month revealed that in addition to academic rigors, Duke women feel enormous social pressure fueled by gender inequality. Davidson students
questioned about the study’s applicability to Davidson expressed a myriad of opinions on the subject.

The Duke project, called the Women’s Initiative, looks at gender issues facing undergrads, graduate students, and faculty alike. Undergraduate women
at Duke were questioned in 20 focus groups. In these sessions, the women discussed gender issues facing them today at
the college. The 20 focus groups illuminated three main social constraints for Duke women: they felt pressured to wear the
latest fashions, to diet and exercise constantly, and to hide their intelligence when it came to interacting with men. Women
felt that this was necessary for their success, and that their success had to appear easy; they had to see
Gender, page 3.

Best-Selling Author Describes Her Need for Justice in ‘Ripper’ Case
By CHRISTIE KILBY
Staff Writer

Davidson alumna and arguably the most celebrated crime novelist in the world, Patricia Cornwell ’79, visited campus Monday and Tuesday.
Promoting her recent book, “Portrait of a Killer,” Cornwell delivered a public lecture, visited classes, and displayed her personal collection
of paintings by Walter Sickert — the alleged killer behind one of the most horrific and unsolved crime mysteries in
history.

The “Jack the Ripper” murders took place in London’s Whitechapel district in 1888. Six prostitutes were victims of gruesome attacks
that left London’s East End in a panic, especially when the killer escaped capture. Cornwell investigated letters by Jack the
Ripper, crime records, law enforcement expertise, and forensic DNA testing — a blend of historical and modern-day evidence — to
pin Jack the Ripper’s identity on Walter Sickert. A famous painter of his day, Sickert created works that, according to
Cornwell, are “imaginative and psychological fingerprints of a psychopathic killer.”

Though she is careful to make objective claims about subjective art, Cornwell said, “I’m an artist myself. Everything you create
is a manifestation of something inside of you [...]. You can call it intuition, but looking at his art was
disturbing.” The exhibit of 42 paintings, drawings, and etchings will not likely be displayed anywhere else until Cornwell has found
the “right home” for her collection. She anticipates increasing interest in the case and hopes that the artworks will eventually
be accessible to the public.

For Cornwell, this project wasn’t simply curious material for another Kay Scarpetta novel. John Grieve of Scotland Yard introduced Cornwell
to the Jack the Ripper case and the investigation soon “took a dramatic turn, became very serious” for her. Describing
her research as “scary, exhausting, and nerve-racking,” Cornwell said, “I hope I never have to do anything like this again.”
See Cornwell, page 2.

SPORTS: Men’s soccer drops close one to Wake
What to watch this weekend?
Against the wind: SPORTS, PAGE 10
