Staff Editorial

You know only the good die young

Responding last week to Katherine Costa’s death, a professor said, “One of the exciting things about teaching college students is that you’re at such an exciting moment in your lives. You’ve survived your childhood—whether it was wonderful or horrific—and now you can start the life that you make.” To see a life ended at such an exciting moment, then, stuns the soul.

In the past two weeks, Davidson students have been thinking about the complexities of youth and death. For some students, Katherine’s death was a first experience with their peers’ mortality. For others, President Bush’s ultimatum—scheduled to expire as this newspaper hits your dorm room door—has heightened fears for boyfriends, brothers, peers, and parents serving in the military. And for the students who participated in or watched last Wednesday’s videoconference with students in Baghdad, an entirely new idea of youth and death emerged. To watch a young woman assert her allegiance to the Iraqi government and her resolve to fight American troops in her city was to see a tangle of youth and death to which we are unaccustomed.

As one pundit put it, President Bush made Saddam Hussein an offer he can’t accept. So war looms as early as today. If—when—media outlets begin reporting casualty figures, we will have faces for those numbers. Unlike our experience with the Persian Gulf war, which simply did not affect most of us, many now know the soldiers crowding in tanks and hefting M-16s across the desert. Remarkably, we also know some of the “innocent civilians” that are going to die. University of Baghdad students like Ali and Nehal might survive American military action, but they will both know people who don’t.

This “exciting moment” in our lives has become more precious in the last two weeks. As we mourn a classmate and anticipate an international loss of young lives, we face a new reality. The lives that we make are based on increasing responsibility and more important, if not clearer, choices.

Editor in Chief
Matt Garfield

Managing Editor
Caroline Hauser

News Editors
Amee Patel & Brandon Carroll

Perspectives Editor
David Crow

Arts & Living Editors
Derek Loh & Chris Schmader

Sports Editors
Richard Connolly & Mike Giglio

Photography Editors
Eron Earley-Thiele & Matt Whited

Advertising & Business Managers
Laura Filosa

I hope you never lose your sense of wonder,
You get your fill to eat but always keep that hunger,
May you never take one single breath for granted,
God forbid love ever leave you empty handed,
I hope you still feel small when you stand beside the ocean,
Whenever one door closes I hope one more opens,
Promise me that you'll give faith a fighting chance,
And when you get the choice to sit it out or dance,
I hope you dance.

--Song excerpt shared at Thursday’s memorial service

Small things

Certain that this girl was being punished by RLO, I inquired anyway. “So how did you end up with me?”

“I actually requested a transfer student.”

Mindful of the existence of transfer students only after becoming one, I was surprised to hear this. She said she wanted to revive her spirit in Davidson sophomore year by living with a newcomer who would be enthusiastic to be here. But with enthusiasm came anxiety and apprehension of starting over. She ended up doing far more for me than I could ever do for her, probably without ever realizing it. It was evident immediately that Katherine was not the type of person you will often meet. Although different in obvious and refreshing ways, she made a lasting mark with her subtle.manner. Forgoing pretense, Katherine spoke her mind. No matter what was said, one couldn’t help but be put at ease in the face of such confidence and contentedness, not to mention conviction. As persistent as she was with her ideas, she was more so in her consideration for others. Katherine was intensely aware of her environment, from the grass and brick that touched her bare feet to the people around her, and was not afraid to react to it. She was well known by many members of the staff, as she was never unaware or unappreciative of their presence. We are bred to give extra attention to what we are working for that we often miss out on what and whom we’re working among. She never lost sight of the latter. In an environment where we are so often exposed to and rewarded for big accomplishments, Katherine preserved and exemplified the importance of the small things. In reality, it was her attention to these “small things” which resulted, and will continue to result, in big strides in the dance ensemble and the performing arts at large at Davidson. But more importantly, it resulted in changes in the people with whom she interacted. At least it did for the one she ushered into Davidson two years ago.

Laura Bondesen ‘03

Katherine Costa
1980 - 2003

Like an angel

I spoke at the memorial service for Katherine Costa. I had a terrible time doing it. It was not something I am used to. I do not often speak in front of people. I didn’t know if I was going to make it through it. I did not feel comfortable up there, and although I am glad now that I spoke, I thought that I was making a huge mistake when I actually was up there. I felt nervous and was scared that I was ruining the memorial service. By the end, I was so afraid and felt so uncomfortable with what I had said that I knew I was about to lose it. I thought I was going to fall apart up there. Right after I spoke however, I immediately felt 10 times better because what happened next was that 12 members of the Dance Ensemble, including me, performed a piece we created especially for Katherine. I know it sounds silly, but I have never had a more spiritual experience than at the moment when the music started and we began to dance. I honestly felt that Katherine was there with me, and I felt like dancing was the way for me to communicate with Katherine how much I love her and miss her. The reason speaking was so difficult was because it was not the right way to reach her. For me, and for the other people dancing I think, dancing was the best way to talk to Katherine, through the art we shared. I have thought about her every day for weeks now, and I cannot stop. She is watching over all of my dance classes and whenever I am choreographing, and she has not left my side. I confessed to someone that although I am not very religious, I have been talking to her some, and I said I felt silly about it, but I do not think I will stop doing it. That’s when someone else said, “And I don’t think she’ll ever stop listening.” She won’t. She’s like an angel that will always be watching over us in the Dance Ensemble, and I am blessed to have ever known her.

Joy Gerdy