‘There’s no next week’ as track readies for conference

By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

Ben Gaspar ’04 and Greg Scott ’04 got PRs, and Nick Lehman ’05 got beat by an old man - albeit a fast one - en route to a solid time in the 800m. But, really, it’s all history, because the conference meet is the only thing on people’s minds this time of year.

“The conference championship is all that matters all year long,” said co-captain Greg Schernecke ’03. “Our team or others may have had good or bad times thus far, but that doesn’t matter when you get to conference. Times go out the window,” he finished.

A quick glance at the past, though, sees this past weekend going as a warm-up for what’s to come. In the 3000m run, Gaspar topped his time by a split second to make Davidson’s top-10 performance list. On a day where no one set huge PRs and many fell short of expected goals, his 8:45.06 was good for third place.

Muggy weather could be to blame for the lack of great times, but head coach Gary Andrew was quick to point out another factor. “Many guys were running events which were not their primary events. Some guys in the sprint group ran several races to get in one last solid workout, so they were tired by the 4x400m relay. We also have some guys with minor injuries, so we decided to pull them from events to reduce the risk of injury,” he said.

Running the 4x4 were Andrew Pratt ’04, Chris Rouisse ’04, James Taylor ’06, and Schernecke. In the 800m run, Scott continued to impress. He finished second in his heat and seventh overall on his way to a 1:54.91. Lehman toed the line in the third heat of the 800m run and was off flying at the gun. He opened with a blazing 56-second quarter, slowed up a bit early on the second lap but was coming on strong when a surprise showed up behind him. An unattached runner, seemingly balding and a bit large, came flying from the back to pass everyone and make his way to the line first in the heat. He finished with a 1:56.39, twelfth overall.

Lehman didn’t do poorly either, finishing in 1:58.45, but it wasn’t exactly what he wanted. “It doesn’t matter now. I just have to run fast enough to make finals [in conference],” said Lehman. “And that guy wasn’t that old.”

Co-captain Amanda Yeck ’04 led the way for the ’Cats. She PRed in both the 200m and high jump and tied for sixth out of 13 competitors in the latter event with a jump of 1.60 meters. Carolyn Mohr ’06 kicked home another PR in the 3k. Her time of 11:07.40 was good enough for seventh in the oversized meet. For the field events, Kim Pierre ’05 extended her toss to 32.33 meters in the discus and 10.40 in the shot. The efforts earned her twelfth place and ninth place, respectively.

Both teams are ready for conference, though, which takes place in the unpredictable climate of Boone, N.C., on Easter weekend. “I have run in the freezing cold snow at Boone before in my freshman year, and I know that it can be extremely miserable and unpredictable,” said Schernecke. “However, we train outside all year long and are prepared as anyone to deal with the elements. At this point in the season, all that matters is racing,” he finished.

Added Gaspar, “It’s time to ‘hoss’ it out there. Start fast, and don’t slow down. There’s no next week.”

Women’s tennis ends season with first two road victories

Sports INFORMATION Press Release

The Davidson women’s tennis team picked up its first road victory of the season, defeating SoCon rival Wofford, 5-2, last Friday afternoon at the Reeves Center. The Wildcats (10-5, 4-3) have won three of their last four matches. Wofford (8-7, 3-4) has lost three in a row.

The Wildcats got on the board early, earning the doubles point with wins at the number one and number two positions. Sophomore sisters Kelly Fillnow and Meghan Fillnow defeated Ellen Rogers and Wendy Rohr, 8-6, at the top position, while sophomore Meggie Patterson and freshman Lindsey Powel notched an 8-6 win over Lauren Marie Whisenhunt and Mary Wallace DeBerry at number two. Davidson has yet to lose a match when earning the doubles point.

Davidson picked up victories at positions two through six to secure the victory. Patterson topped Whisenhunt, 6-4, 6-0, at the number two slot. Meghan Fillnow improved to 12-3 this spring with a 6-3, 7-6 win over Rogers at number three. At the fourth spot, Powel defeated Tara Hartness, 7-5, 6-3, and junior Katherine Hatch topped Delaine Hare, 6-4, 6-2, at the fifth position.

The team also cruised to a 7-0 victory over Western Carolina on Sunday afternoon. Davidson (11-5, 5-3) has now won four of its last five matches, including two straight on the road. Western Carolina closed out its season against the Wildcats and heads to the Southern Conference Championship with a 6-12 overall record and a 1-8 league mark. Davidson improved to 11-0 when winning the doubles point, earning victories at the number one and number two doubles positions to...take the early lead. The Fillnow sisters defeated Shannon Zalinski and Megan Bechtold, 8-3, while Patterson and Powel topped Rocio Perez and Erin Johnson, 8-2. The Wildcats went on to sweep through the singles matches and post their fifth shutout of the year. Powel lost only one game in her match, defeating Johnson, 6-0, 6-1, at number four. Meghan Fillnow improved her team-best record to 13-3, with a 6-0, 6-3 victory over Bechtold. Patterson also dominated at the number two position, topping Kristin Munn, 6-1, 6-0. The final match of the regular season for the team was canceled on Monday. The Wildcats were scheduled to face UNC Greensboro, but the match was canceled due to transportation difficulties. Davidson is the number four seed in the Southern Conference Tournament this weekend, in Charleston, S.C. The Wildcats will battle Wofford on Thursday, April 17, at 9:30 a.m.

The men’s tennis team has lost several 4-3 matches this year.

Men’s tennis ends season on sour note
By WEBSTER HARRISON
Staff Writer

Incredibly close losses seem to be the theme for the men’s tennis team this year. In their final match of the season at home, the Wildcats fell to the Citadel 4-3. The Bulldogs jumped out to a quick 1-0 lead by winning all three doubles matches. All three Wildcats teams fell at the same score of 8-6. The Wildcats sensed the urgency in singles play, and Rob Haywood ’04 changed the momentum of the match, coming from one set down to win 2-6, 7-5, 6-2. Haywood played poorly in the first set but quickly changed his game to pull out a win over Matt Stubbs. Happy with his play, Haywood said, “It took me a while to get into the match, and Stubbs has a tough serve. I was able to make a few adjustments on my service returns, and the rest of my game just followed.”

In what seemed a walkover, Donald Miles ’05 defeated John Williams 6-2, 6-2. Miles put together one of his best matches of the season and limited his unforced errors. At number three, Brian Stonestreet ’04 cruised to a 6-4, 6-3 win. Modest as always, Stonestreet admitted, “My opponent played well. I just managed to hit some winners at key times, and that set the tone early in the match.”

After these three wins, the Wildcats seemed to be poised to win their eleventh match of the season and guarantee at least a .500 season. Unfortunately, that didn’t happen. After winning 12 straight matches, Russ Burns ’05 fell to Warren Woolfolk in straight sets, 6-1, 6-1. At number four, Jonathan Britt ’04 appeared to be in control of his match, winning the first set easily 6-1 and taking an early lead in the second set. The Bulldogs’ Lawrence Tere clawed his way back into the set and pulled it out in a close tiebreaker. Britt then fell in the third set 6-0. Britt commented, “The loss in the tiebreaker took the wind out of my sails and pretty much shot my confidence. When I lost my confidence, my strokes went astray and I just couldn’t hit my first serve.”

In the deciding match of the day, Geoffrey Mullen ’03 lost a heartbreaker in his final match at Covington Courts. Mullen also won the first set but fell 7-5, 6-2 in the following sets to the Citadel’s David Lara. This match gave Citadel the last point and the win, and the Bulldogs handed the Wildcats their fourth straight loss.

In their final match of the season, the Davidson team fell to the Wofford Terriers 4-3. Davidson won the first doubles point with Britt and Rob Gould ’04 winning 8-2 at the second position and Burns and Stonestreet winning at number three 8-5. At number one doubles, the duo of Haywood and Miles fell 8-0. Wofford bounced back from the doubles loss, however, winning four of six singles matches. Terriers Lee Porter and Brandon Smith defeated Miles and Stonestreet, respectively, in straight sets. At number four, Britt suffered another close loss, falling in three sets to Brett Johnson 6-4, 4-6, 6-2. Haywood played another masterful match, defeating Kent Ball 4-6, 6-3, 7-6. Regarding his opponent, Haywood stated, “He choked on the big points while I was able to keep a calm hand and even strokes.” At number six, Burns recorded his sixteenth victory of the season, defeating Jason Mengel 6-3, 6-1. Burns, who probably is the most improved player on the team this season, will play a vital role in the upcoming tournament.

Once again, the pressure came down upon Mullen’s shoulders. After dropping the first set 6-3, Mullen evened the match at one set apiece, winning the second set 7-5. Mullen’s fatigue from the three-setter the previous day was evident in the third set of the Wofford match, as he jumped to an early lead but could not put it away. Terrier Chris Barlow won the third set in a tiebreaker, giving the Terriers a 4-3 win over the Wildcats. The Wildcats finished the regular season at a disappointing 10-11, with a 3-6 record in the Southern Conference. They now gear up for the tournament, which begins on April 16.

LIFEGUARDS AQUATICS CAROLINA, INC.
WANTED!
We offer top pay, great incentives, and flexible hours.
Call Kim for an appointment: 704-665-7544