8. THE DAVIDSONIAN

Media critics should deal on real issues

Whether in attendance or not, most students probably caught a glimpse of the yellow fliers advertising Monday night’s “Weapons of Mass Disappearance” feature by New York Times “critic,” Bill Jackson. Understandably recognized by many as nothing more than a 900 Room get-together for poli-sci majors (or at least the more liberal of us), the lecture predictably addressed the supposed “bias” of New York Times reporting on the sensitive “Weapons of Mass Destruction” debate since the beginning of the war in Iraq.

Casting himself as somewhat of an expert on the Times (he’s been reading the daily publication at breakfast for 40-some-odd years now), Jackson suggested that the paper’s star-WMD reporter, Judith Miller, had been consistently skewing her reporting so as to support the administration. Most notably, it was shown that the presence of co-authorship on a few of Miller’s articles somehow indicated clandestine activity. Moreover, it appeared obvious that something fishy was going on when Jackson pointed out that the Times had frequently amended or changed its conclusions on the WMD issue over the past few months. After all, what business does a major newspaper, as well respected as the New York Times, have offering opposing viewpoints on an issue so obviously understood as the search for WMD in Iraq?

While my preceding sarcasm-drenched diatribe should at least give the reader a hint of my initial reactions to the WMD lecture (D stands for Disappearance... get it?), on a more serious note, the public would be better served if the real experts concentrated on figuring out where those weapons actually went. You don’t have to be a poli-sci major to have found yourself at least ruminating on the WMD debates of the last few months, if not plugging out incensed tirades on this or that particular Web blog. To be honest, the Davidson community deserves a speaker at least brought by a non-partisan group. It seemed rather ironic that the Young Democrat-sponsored Bill Jackson felt the need to talk about partiality. Jackson clearly addressed the audience with the assumption that the majority joined him in scoffing at the Bushies and their belief that WMD might have actually existed in Iraq in the first place.

Perhaps I’m being overly cynical. Jackson’s long-winded discussion did occasionally highlight the uncertainty of journalism when reported from the battlefield. Judith Miller wrote several front-page articles from her embedded position in the American military. Jackson fairly questioned the legitimacy of such pieces since Miller’s sources and positions understandably remained anonymous for the purposes of security. Unfortunately, the debate over the role of the media during wartime is an entirely separate topic and does little to validate claims that the Times has published sketchy WMD articles since last fall, a good six months before the war even began.

In what many might view as a blind stubbornness, I’ll continue reading my morning Times in hopes of gaining the most “fair and balanced” news that I’ve been able to find in my five or so years of political curiosity. Then again, I might be a Republican.

College transmits ruling-class ideology

By RICARDO AMPUDIA
Staff Columnist

Educational institutions like Davidson College have the potential of providing the perfect environment for the transmission of ruling class ideology across generations. This potential is realized on our campus. Why this potential? Generally, the members of the Davidson College community are substantially detached from their local surroundings. This facilitates the transmission of (inaccurate) ideas since there are no social facts that might contradict them.

Consider the fact that, as students, we hardly have to confront the difficulties that most Americans do. Thus, our exposure to social confrontation and problems, for example, is minimal. (How much do most of us know of the local social problems such as the absence of labor unions, rising tensions between the abundant minority communities and state authorities, and teenage violence in less than a three-mile radius?) Therefore we, as students, are often unable to empirically verify what we learn in the classroom.

One could object to this claim by saying that many students indeed become exposed to social problems on various occasions, such as during an internship over the summer or through community service. It seems to me, however, that it is often the case that even these kinds of experiences are insufficient to call them “social experiences.” Of course, this is not true of all student experiences; but how many of us would take a summer job as a factory or agricultural worker? Personally, I wouldn’t and wouldn’t expect most of us here to do so since we would be violating our own rationality.

Why is this potential an actuality for us? Consider that the median household income for this college is substantially above that of many other colleges in the nation. To be practical, the fact is that we, together with students in other similar institutions, are the children of the bourgeoisie. What results from this fact? It is likely that our entire lives have been, for the most part, a fantasy. We do not have a dependable empirical foundation for our ideas. Thus, in class, when we read the works of a bourgeois poet, listen to bourgeois classical music, see a ballet dance, or read an essay by a bourgeois historian, these works sometimes make perfect sense to us even if they are totally far from actual social conditions.

In a word, institutions like Davidson house a vast discourse of ideas (e.g. love, honor, religious faith, justice, morality), most of which come from the ruling classes of the past and the present. We will accept those ideas that make the most sense to us based on our experiences. But the fact is that, for most students here, our experiences are similar to that of those who formulated the ideas that are part of this discourse. Therefore, we accept bourgeois ideology as a valid and accurate set of beliefs. This follows along with the compartmentalization of activities that is typical of capitalist societies that allows us to be more efficient under the system (we study in the library, party in the court, eat in the Commons, separate ‘higher-learning’ from its social and historical context).

Is this good or bad? I am not interested in making moral claims here. Instead, I am interested in making sense out of the dynamics of this campus.

Commons in need of a major overhaul

By Danny Troy
Guest Columnist

“Is it cooked today?” So asked a friend who was ahead of me in line at Commons this afternoon when she ordered the baked chicken. Unfortunately, her question was an entirely reasonable one, as I had ordered the baked chicken myself recently, and cut into it to discover that it was highly unlikely that it had ever spent much time inside an oven.

Tonight was the breaking point. My dinner choices were chicken parmesan for the fourth time in as many weeks, or a quesadilla for the fourth time in as many days. Even the salad bar looked worse than usual, as various unrelated items were thrown together in the same bin in what was undoubtedly given a name that involved the word “casserole” or “medley.”

Two of my roommates, like myself, are both independents and too lazy to cook. As a result, we’re among the few upper-classmen, and evenFewer seniors eat regularly at Commons. We are convinced that Commons has taken a downward plunge over the past four years—not just in the quality of the food, but the menu selection as well. I looked tonight at the menus for the past three weeks that are posted on the Dining Services’ website. During that time period, Commons has served beef in different varieties on no less than 20 separate occasions. Of course, there is nothing wrong with beef. Moderation, however, is of vital importance, particularly since on roughly 75 percent of these occasions, it was the same beef, only cut differently, seasoned differently, or given a new, exotic name. Things get even bleaker when it comes to chicken. In the same time period, chicken was served a total of 34 times. Likewise, the majority of these dishes involved a grilled chicken breast covered in a different sauce at each meal and given a new name: grilled balsamic chicken, key west chicken, lemon rosemary chicken, grilled chicken barbecue. The list is endless. The thought process seems to be that if it’s given a different name (and anything involving a foreign language is optimal), perhaps we won’t notice it’s the same chicken breast they served for lunch yesterday. There are other types of meat besides chicken and beef. Hot turkey can be served for more meals than just Thanksgiving dinner. Depending on costs, baked ham, pastrami, and lamb also come to mind. There is nothing wrong with chicken, but a higher quality brand would not hurt, nor would expanding its uses beyond that of a grilled fillet covered in a new sauce each day. Most importantly, students need to be given more input regarding the Commons menus. SGA should work with Commons to revive the Dining Committee, which has been defunct for the better part of a year now, to give students a greater voice. Additionally, on the Commons website, there is a link called “E-meal,” which students can use to email the Commons staff directly. I do not know if the root of the problem lies with the funding received by Dining Services or if it is poor allocation of funds in determining the menu. If it is the former, surely that can be remedied with the money that this school has at its disposal. If the problem is the latter, a serious overhaul of the menus is desperately needed.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2003

College must trust students with their own social lives

There are some things I enjoy about Davidson. I have met many interesting people in my three-plus years here. Both fellow students and faculty have challenged me intellectually and enabled me to think in new ways. There are many people here I am proud to call my friends. I have also really enjoyed the chance to watch some great D-1 athletic teams free of charge. However, in my time here I have also managed to develop an intense hatred for much of what goes on at Davidson. I guess the best way to explain myself is to describe what I have realized Davidson does not stand for: its students’ social lives. I have watched the Court devolve from a relatively carefree environment to a bureaucratic regime. Each year decisions are being taken away from the students and codified. Or, to be more accurate, rules and regulations long-ignored are now being vigorously enforced. I liken it to traffic cops suddenly giving massive fines for anyone going more than one mile over the speed limit on the highway. Imagine the anger and frustration of receiving a thousand-dollar fine for going 67 in a 65. That’s what it feels like to try and have fun at Davidson College. You always have to look over your shoulder to make sure a school official doesn’t have their legal radar gun out. Fraternities and eating houses are more than social clubs. The wild behavior exhibited on the Court is not something to be tamed and caged in. Kids 18 to 22 are going to need a release, especially ones who are as stressed out as Davidson students tend to be. When I was a freshman, students felt a sense of ownership and responsibility for their actions. Sometimes we made bad decisions when given the opportunity, but at least they were our decisions. I remember the “Great Beirut Crackdown” that occurred my freshman year. I assume it was part of the College’s four-year plan of reducing fun. Drinking games were always illegal, but the college ignored them and students chose to play them. Suddenly the police were performing raids, handing out citations, and placing fraternities on social probation. Of course, the school could point to the Judicial Board, composed of Davidson students, and blame them for those citations. But, we all know that those students have no real power. Not only do professors often dominate discussion at J-Board trials, if the school doesn’t agree with the punishment they simply inform J-Board that a harsher punishment needs to be handed out. Davidson student self-government at its finest. Perhaps the most blatant example of a poor administrative decision was the closing of the Outpost. I know, everyone has been whining about the Outpost being shut down for three years, but there’s a reason for that: it bound the campus together in a way that the Union never will. It not only feels like each year there are fewer and fewer students going out, it also seems like there is less and less social interaction between those who go out and those who don’t. The new Patterson Court houses are also causing frustration for many students. The old houses may have been worn down and falling apart, but they felt like our houses. The walls were painted our colors, we could duct tape to our heart’s content without receiving memos from RLO, and nailing something to the wall wouldn’t result in a fine. The school wonders why the new houses get destroyed; it’s because the students don’t feel like they own them. The houses may be leased to students by the school, but an illusion of ownership would go a long way to reducing problems of destruction. I’m a lot less likely to wreck my own house than the motel room I stay at during Spring Break. As usual, I can’t offer many solutions. Removing some of the rules and regulations students have to face is one solution. Creating a place like the Outpost on the Court would help, too. Another would be the students that attend Davidson. I think there has been a significant shift in our student body. More and more people come to Davidson to work, and only to work. I don’t want to attend a school where the only thing on my mind is how much work I have to do, where every conversation begins and ends with discussing my workload. Admit students bright enough to excel in the classroom, but also human enough to have a life outside of school. I am not speaking for my fraternity, so I hope this doesn’t result in retaliation by the administration. I also cannot claim to speak for everyone I know. There are many students perfectly content with the way things are at Davidson. However, I know that a growing number of students from different ethnicities, income levels, fraternities, and social groups harbor some resentment towards Davidson. Maybe it’s just our misplaced teenage angst. Or, maybe some things really do need to change around here.