By ZACH WILLIAMS
Staff Columnist

Having been in existence for barely more than a month now, the Department of Homeland Security has succeeded in making
quite a name for itself in the past few weeks. After raising the color-coded threat meter to a menacing “orange,”
the second-highest level which signifies a “high” threat of terrorist activity in our country, public anxiety and hysteria have led
to duct-tape buying binges from Washington, D.C., to New York. Although the terror alert remains at an orange level, Tom
Ridge responded to the public’s rush to raid the shelves of grocery and hardware stores by urging a calm but
ready mindset for common citizens living in the country. In order to instill some of that traditional American spirit of
sturdiness and power, Ridge stated, “Today America’s families declare, we will not be afraid and we will be ready.”

That may be a happy little feel-good proverb, but the mixed messages given by Ridge and President Bush over the
last few weeks over terror threats have left the general public understandably ambivalent as to what to take seriously, and
what to brush off as meaningless political banter. It was only a week ago that Ridge was talking in such
fatalistic terms that it seemed an imminent catastrophe was sure to occur.

By RICHARD GUYER
Staff Columnist

Enough talk already. It is time to start dropping bombs, if that is our intention. Over the past few months,
everything which can be said has been said. If, at this juncture, the French and Germans have not signed on
to an invasion of Iraq, they likely never will. Besides, I’ll give even money that once the chips come down,
Old Europe will be clamoring for a place at the table.

By now, we all know that Saddam is an evil person. It is common knowledge that he tortures his people,
gasses Kurds, rapes women and invades foreign nations for recreational purposes. He wishes to see Israel, one of our most
loyal allies, destroyed and all of her citizens massacred. He has defied the world for over a decade, and he
most likely possesses weapons of mass destruction. And he once tried to assassinate the President of the United States, which,
even if nothing else does, most certainly constitutes casus belli.

All of us have also heard about how a war in Iraq could destabilize the Middle East. Thousands of Islamic
youth will rush to join Al Qaeda, Hezbollah, Hamas, and other militant organizations. Pakistan will experience civil unrest of epic
proportions, inevitably resulting in Osama obtaining her nukes. The Jordanians and Syrians will be left with no choice but to
invade Israel; Sharon will respond with overwhelming force — which will most likely include nuclear weapons — and the Battle
of Armageddon will shortly ensue. The world will then have an everlasting peace because we will all die from the
fallout.

If you have not yet heard all of this, then a) you have been stranded on a remote desert island
for at least 12 months, or b) you are the most news-apathetic person currently alive. As for the 99 percent
of cogent humans who do know all this, we have already decided where we stand on the issue.

A large majority of Americans think we ought to remove Saddam and go about rebuilding his nation. Similar majorities of
Frenchmen think otherwise. At this juncture, neither nation’s populace is likely to do an about-face and declare that they have
changed their minds. Opinions have been formed. Information has been dispersed. The cases have been made both pro and con.
If the Bush Administration is serious about this thing, it is now time to put up or shut up.

It may be that a war in Iraq could destabilize the Middle East, although Armageddon is not a likely outcome.
Similarly, a successful war in Iraq will quite possibly lead to a freer, more unshakable Arab world, but conservatives should
not expect to see a democratically elected Iraqi parliament taking its seat six months hence. The hour is growing late.
If the administration has still not convinced our once-allies of Old Europe, it never will. That is, it never will
until the war is won, at which time they will beat a path to Iraq, demanding to lead the victory
parade. It is now time to start that parade.

By MATT BANDYK
Staff Columnist

During the recent worldwide protests against the war on Iraq, left-wing activists expressed a broad range of arguments in opposition
to regime change. Many say...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

That the motivation for the war is solely based on Bush’s desire for oil. Others say that this war is
just another example of U.S. imperialism. Some embrace pacifism and reject war as a method in foreign policy. However, the
majority of the protesters have one thing in common: they only criticize America, never Iraq. As Georgetown professor Michael Kazin
(who opposes the war) wrote in the Washington Post, “the organizers of the recent Washington and San Francisco marches refuse
to say anything critical of Saddam Hussein.” This unwillingness to confront Iraq, the true threat to international security, has the
exact opposite effect that the protesters are hoping for: it increases the chances that war with Iraq will occur. This
war is Saddam Hussein’s fault, not George Bush’s. The U.S. government is trying to enforce the many U.N. resolutions that
Saddam has thumbed his nose at for the last decade. If he would only cooperate and give up his weapons
of mass destruction as the United Nations has commanded many times, then the march to war would cease. If these
activists are anti-war, then they should be protesting Saddam. Instead, they have chosen to encourage Iraq’s defiance. When Saddam sees
thousands of people around the world protesting the war, he is convinced that maybe war will not happen. Without a
credible threat from the United States, Saddam has no incentive to comply with inspections, and the protesters are undermining that
credibility. Whatever your opinion on the Iraq issue is, it is unrealistic to think that the United States will reverse
its position on Iraq. Bush has invested too much political capital into the war, and the American public supports it.
Furthermore, backing down in Iraq would ruin our ability to bargain with North Korea, so withdrawal is an unappealing course
of action as well as infeasible. However, an Iraqi change in position is not as unrealistic. Saddam clearly responds to
pressure; even Hans Blix has said that the threat of war is the only reason that Saddam has agreed to
these new rounds of inspections. The more pressure the United States puts on Saddam, the more likely he is to
voluntarily disarm. Instead of attacking the United States, the protesters should oppose Saddam and demand that he comply with U.N.
resolutions. Since war is inevitable in the current state of affairs, this is the best option for even the most
anti-war of people. I am not so naive to think that Iraq would give up all its weapons the moment
public opinion shifted against it. But the fact remains that the “peace” activists are making a bad situation even worse.

Jeremy Trantham

Life at school brings comfort and worry

“Your grandpa is back in the hospital,” my mom told me the other day. I have been getting some variation
of that call a lot over the past few months. Grandpa chain-smoked his entire adult life. I guess frequent trips
to the hospital should be expected. Now, every time my phone rings, I am a little scared. Worried that this
time the call won’t just be: “He’s back in the hospital,” but, “It’s time. You’d better come home.” Apprehension is
not the type of emotion you want to have when you answer your phone. But the phone is my only
real means of communicating with home. I am here and home is there. College does offer a lot of advantages
over living at home. Not having to be around to deal with family problems—squabbles, gossip and, yes, sickness—is just one
such advantage. I cannot tell you how often my parents will tell me a story and I will think, “Wow,
thank God I wasn’t around for that.” So, in a way, I am glad that I am in school right
now. I hate hospitals, and I hate watching people I love die there. Especially when it is from smoking. Instead
of those cheesy the Truth ads, they should show kids watching someone dying of emphysema. The word god-awful does not
even begin to describe it. Joe Camel has nothing on Joe Tracheotomy. But another, larger, part of me wants to
be home. It sucks not being around. Sure, there is not anything to do but sit and worry, but at
least I could sit and worry there. Instead, I am stuck in a classroom two hours away, and too preoccupied
to pay enough attention. Growing up really sucks sometimes. I feel stuck here. Stuck in the life that I have
created for myself—separate from my family. Responsibilities, both wanted and unwanted, creep into our lives: academics, athletics, clubs, organizations, friends,
fraternities, work/study, meetings and such. I want to tell them all to go to hell for a minute because I
need a break. I would really like to go see my grandfather. Responsibilities help though. Being busy keeps you from
dwelling on your reality. Sitting around doing nothing only gives you time to wallow in self-pity. You could try to
drink it all away, but in the morning you wake up with the same problems and a headache. The problem
is that you go through all of this—you live your life—and still, in the back of your mind, is pure,
naked concern. It colors everything you do. Concern makes all these responsibilities seem less important, which isn’t necessarily bad. It
does provide a certain amount of perspective. Ultimately, some of the things we deem most important in our lives really
are not. Just like some of the things we find funny really are not; I guess sometimes you just can’t
help but laugh. I am only a two-hour drive across I-40 West from home. The first time I was driving
back over fall break freshman year I was struck by how beautiful the mountains were. I had never noticed them
growing up. I have made that same drive enough times now that I do not notice the two hours anymore.
The journey has become routine enough to be short. It really isn’t a long trip anyway. But every once in
a while, two hours can seem like an eternity.
