THE DAVIDSONIAN

RLO, from page 1

For singles, there are 26 women on the waitlist and 15 spots and 11 men on the list for eight rooms.

Possible Solutions

“If a student has ever thought about living off-campus, now is the time,” says Marsicano, noting RLO won't be as strict about granting off-campus housing permission for the spring semester. Other solutions involve the renovation of Davidson-owned houses located next to the College and, as a last resort, possible renovations of small men’s halls, if more than half of the hall has moved.

Problems arise for Davidson students who lived on-campus this semester and now have to move out of their rooms and back home or into a new room before Winter Break begins. These students will have to coordinate with people living in their room for the next semester in order to make a smooth transition. “If you have changes, you really need to let RLO know,” Marsicano says. Students returning to campus want a bed. Marsicano added that it is up to students whose roommates are leaving to find new ones for the spring, and no one will be able to live in a double without a roommate.

Photo by Dorsett

Endangered species? Next semester women’s lounges such as this one will be rare, as students returning from abroad seek beds.

Downloading, from page 1

Penn State has set a precedent in the fight against piracy that, if the recording industry has its way, likely will be emulated by many major universities. Will Davidson follow suit? In the wake of this groundbreaking deal, the pertinent question is, could this happen at Davidson?

“It’s a possibility, given enough student support,” says Executive Director of IT Services John Casey. “It’s always a good idea to provide a legal alternative to illegal file-sharing.”

Just how big a problem is internet piracy at Davidson? According to Casey, ITS does not directly monitor students’ online activities, but it is no secret that illegal downloading occurs. “We don’t monitor the students so we have no way of knowing who or how much. All we do is limit the amount of traffic, though we realize that the demand probably exceeds the limit.”

Currently, there are no efforts to curtail illegal file swapping, no policing of students’ online activities, and no attempts to educate students about copyright laws. The prevailing opinion in the national fight against internet piracy is that the epidemic is a result of a generation gap. While many adults view downloading music as the equivalent of stealing, younger people have grown up in an ever-improving technological society in which programs such as the original Napster and Kazaa are commonplace and accepted.

Many questions remain unanswered. Should students be judged for activities they have known since high school? Those with a Macintosh would not even have the option of this service. Is it fair to offer a service to which not everyone can subscribe? How does Davidson’s Honor Code fit into this argument? Individual interpretations of the Honor Code abound, but while it explicitly forbids stealing, some believe the general statements seem to focus more narrowly on academics. (See related article for Davidson students’ views).

Pros and Cons

The Napster service, if adapted at Davidson, would put the issue of the Honor Code to rest, as it is completely legal and recording industry-supported. But while the service is easy to implement, do the benefits of legality outweigh the negative aspects of this service?

First, the option of listening to music directly from the Napster player is an imperfect method. “Streaming audio is a flawed technology,” reported Casey. “In many cases, it does not transmit a satisfactory continuous stream of music. It is a false promise.” In addition, streaming audio would slow down the network significantly, as would the...Option of downloading. To prevent impacting crucial school operating systems, ITS would limit the bandwidth of downloads as they do now, resulting in the same slow transfer rates that students currently experience with programs such as Kazaa. Students would also not have the option of downloading movies, a currently popular option with programs such as Kazaa. Essentially, the decision comes down to the current state of slow, illegal music or movie downloads with the option of burning freely, or slow, legal music downloads with a 99 cent fee for burning songs.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2003

Clark

An unidentified Davidson student downloads music files while listening to mp3’s on his iPod.

Survey, from page 1

Davidson's Honor Code. 76 percent of students answered that downloading music should not be an Honor Code violation, yet 44 percent of polled students indicated that it was illegal to download and share music over the Internet. 31 percent of all polled students took this inconsistent position. The survey also explored the degree to which recent lawsuits regarding music downloading have affected the downloading activities of Davidson students. 29 percent of students indicated that they would encourage a friend to stop downloading music in light of recent lawsuits, though 83 percent of students said they would stop downloading if hypothetically 10 Davidson students were the targets of such lawsuits. Why the difference? Dr. Sellers explained that the first question was framed generically, while the other question was framed in a much more personal manner.

File-sharing has become more controversial as it has become more popular in recent years. The poll sought to determine the legal knowledge of the student body regarding downloading practices, as well as ethical views on the matter. The Honor Council has indicated it will study the issue later this year, though representatives declined requests for comment on the poll results. The survey was randomly distributed to approximately half of the school’s students with active e-mail addresses and received a 59 percent response rate.

While Information Technology Services at Davidson does not monitor the content of individual computers, it does regulate the bandwidth used by a student. According to ITS Director John Casey, “When we find a computer that is using a disproportionate share of the total bandwidth available to the entire college, we contact the owner and work with that person to limit the traffic volume they generate. Such cases are extreme. Anyone using 1 percent of the total bandwidth over a couple of days is sending a huge amount of data.” In brief, ITS asks that students be well informed and responsible about music downloading.

Davidson students echoed these concerns. “It sounds like a great system, especially given the safety from the prosecution that has been targeting college students lately,” commented Joe Cheaney ’06. “But I’m concerned about the limitations of the service. Most people download music to listen to away from their computer and would rather do so freely than be forced to pay.” Merin Frank ‘06 said, “I think it’s a great idea to offer a legal alternative to illegal downloading. I just hope I could figure out how to use it.” These comments reveal an important point, that the Napster system, with so many options, could be difficult to maneuver for the less computer-savvy students. Is it Davidson College’s responsibility to better educate students about the dangers of illegal downloading? Casey says no, “It isn’t the place of academic people to police for the music and movie industries.” But until students understand and care about their illicit actions, any legal alternative is unlikely to succeed.

30 summer programs throughout the world
Institute of International Programs Abroad
800-251-9674
http://s