By Derek Lon
Arts & Living Editor

“Mystic River” is a profoundly American film, a grand cinematic effort that critics often have described as Shakespearean in its story and tone. With its themes of community, betrayal, and haunting pasts, “Mystic River”’s most recent cousins are “Summer of Sam” (1999) and “The Talented Mr. Ripley” (1999). These films are ensemble pieces that share emotional grandness and dread. We never know where they will turn, but we sense it is nowhere pleasant.

“Mystic River” opens on three boys playing street hockey. After losing their ball to a gutter, they write their names with a twig in wet cement. A man emerges from a car and asks the boys why they are destroying his municipal property: he is a cop, he says. He scolds the boys, sends two of them to tell their mothers what they have done, and forces one, Dave, into the back of his car. For four days Dave is missing.

The film jumps to these boys’ adulthoods. Dave (Tim Robbins), Jimmy (Sean Penn), and Sean (Kevin Bacon) still live in the same part of Boston. They run into each other occasionally, but not since the day of Dave’s abduction have they been friends. Sean is a homicide detective whose wife left him. Jimmy owns a convenience store and has three daughters. Dave appears to have no job, but does have a son and a loving wife (Marcia Gay Harden).

One night Dave goes to a local bar. Jimmy’s oldest daughter walks in with two girlfriends, and they behave like 19-year-olds: they drink, they sing, they dance on tables, they tease older men. The film cuts to Dave arriving at home. He has a knife wound across his stomach and someone else’s blood on his hands. The next day, Jimmy’s daughter is missing. Sean, the homicide detective, finds her mutilated body in a nearby park.

In many ways “Mystic River” is a whodunit. Without a reason for his wounds and bloody hands, Dave is the prime suspect. But then there is the girl’s boyfriend (Tom Guiry, Smalls from “The Sandlot”). Our minds jump from explanation to explanation, and when all is revealed, we’re surprised at the film’s respect for its characters and for us. For once, a whodunit’s explanation works.

To describe “Mystic River” in terms of its plot and character development would be to ignore its strong acting. Robbins’ Dave is filled with hurt and misunderstanding. Penn feels like he could explode with anger. As the detective, Bacon has the difficult role of bringing the audience into the story. He must act convincingly while remaining familiar and he must explain the story at a level and pace to which the audience can relate. He plays Sean just right.

The supporting cast is excellent, too. Marcia Gay Harden as Dave’s wife, Laurence Fishburne as Sean’s partner, and Tom Guiry as the boyfriend play crucial roles and add to the film’s overall tone. And then there is Laura Linney as Jimmy’s wife, who, at the end of the film, gives a speech so bizarre and powerful that it will be remembered for a good while, hopefully during Oscar time.

“Mystic River” is why we go to the movies. It is a superior entertainment that impresses, engages, and speaks to its audiences. Director Clint Eastwood delivers a masterful film that unfolds beautifully.

---

Center Education at Work

Get a taste of life in one of America’s greatest cities. Earn academic credit living, working, and studying in Philadelphia! Financial Aid applies and Academic Credits transfer!and Sebastian: new sound
By Andy Heston
Staff Writer

Three songs into Belle and Sebastian’s “Dear Catastrophe Waitress,” I was disappointed beyond words. I first got into Belle and Sebastian with 1997’s “If You’re Feeling Sinister.” On that album, Stuart Murdoch and company delivered some of the finest twee-pop songwriting that these ears have ever heard. Rumor has it that Belle and Sebastian’s moniker comes from the cartoon characters of the same name, and given the way the band’s music sounds, it’s a believable one: Belle and Sebastian play humble and unassuming folk-pop music, all acoustic guitars and sad expressions, with just enough quirk and humor to set them apart from the legions of similar bands. The songs are so simply arranged that there’s nothing to distract from Murdoch’s genius for well-crafted turns of phrase, both literary and melodic. Typically character sketches of some of Glasgow’s more interesting denizens, the lyrics are brilliant.

And yet, three songs into their latest album, I found no great character sketches, no winning melodies, none of the charm of any other Belle and Sebastian release. I heard three meandering and over-orchestrated songs, the names of which I can’t remember and don’t really care to. Everything I loved about “If You’re Feeling Sinister” was gone: the wit, the melody, the humility. Something was not right.

And then came the fourth song, “Mike Piazza, New York Catcher.” It dispelled all my qualms. It opens with a brisk acoustic guitar playing the sort of quick and shuffling waltz that makes Belle and Sebastian a distinctly Scottish band, and the lyrics are as great as any Murdoch has written: “Elope with me Miss Private and we’ll sail around the world / I will be your Ferdinand and you my wayward girl / How many nights of talking in hotel rooms can you take? / How many nights of limping ‘round on pagan holiday? / Oh elope with me Miss Private and we’ll set something ablaze / A trail for the devil to erase.” The entire song combines sincere romantic melancholy with the gentle and effervescent wit of lines like “San Francisco’s calling us / The Mets and Giants to play / And ask the New York catcher are you straight or are you gay?” Clever but not smarmy, sincere but not sentimental. It’s on songs like “Mike Piazza” that Stuart Murdoch proves why he’s one of Scotland’s finest musical exports.

Things take a turn for the more elaborate with “I’m a Cuckoo.” Where “Piazza” is an exercise in heartfelt simplicity, “I’m a Cuckoo” throws every instrument in the studio around in a sort of Beach Boys-meet-Bowie way. Bouncy pop doesn’t get much better than Murdoch cramming every available syllable into each line over a Scottish-soul curtain of horns. “Piazza” sounds like a great Belle and Sebastian song from five years ago; “Cuckoo” sounds like a great Belle and Sebastian song that could only have come from 2003.

Much has been made of ’80s over-producer Trevor Horn’s influence on the album. His credits include Yes, Tatu, and Frankie Goes to Hollywood... you can understand the concern. It’s songs like “Cuckoo” that reveal Belle and Sebastian as a great band no matter who’s behind the boards. “Dear Catastrophe Waitress” may start out a disappointment. But once a great band, (almost) always a great band. The sound may have changed, but the Belle and Sebastian magic is still there.

---

Campus Safety Week Events:
1. Bike Seat Signing with Bike Cop
2. Show All Your Doughnuts to Campus Safety NOW Day
3. Call Box Day (I don’t care which)
4. Song Oval of Obie: Vulnerable to Destruction by the Inebriated