8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

It’s time to leave Iraq to the Iraqis

For the past few months, leftist pundits have been proclaiming that the United Nations must be given a greater role in the United States' nation-building operation in Iraq. But U.N. control in Iraq would not achieve what its proponents say, and in fact, would make the situation worse.

United Nations supporters claim that the end to terrorist attacks and the implantation of democracy is impossible because many Iraqis perceive the United States to be a self-interested occupying power. If the United Nations took over, this hostility would supposedly be replaced by respect for the legitimacy of this international body. But the Aug. 19 bombing of U.N. headquarters showed that the enemies of the new Iraq are not motivated by the fear of a unilateral occupation but by the fear of a stable, democratic society. They will continue to attack any foreign group that works towards freedom in Iraq because the realization of such freedom would prove their values to be wrong.

But even if the United Nations is a target for the terrorists, it is no more hated than the United States, so all it can do is help by providing desperately needed manpower, right? Wrong. U.N. peacekeepers are both unnecessary and counterproductive. They are unnecessary because U.N. peacekeepers are trained to do just that: keep the peace, not establish peace where it does not exist. As Sierra Leone, Bosnia, Somalia, and the Congo all prove, the peacekeepers are not prepared to use force to constrain a violent enemy, the only way to combat the terrorists killing troops in Iraq. They are counterproductive because of their leadership. Most of the members of the U.N. Security Council were against the war to begin with. Bush and Blair had to go to war without U.N. approval because France, Russia, and China, the other highly influential Security Council members, opposed their plan for a free Iraq at every step. If the United States were to give authority over its mission to countries that oppose U.S. power, it would be tying its troops’ hands behind their backs.

Another problem is that U.N. authority in Iraq may stave off the goal of democracy. Countries under U.N. nation-building operations, with Kosovo being the most recent example, tend to become U.N. protectorates, only gaining independence at some distant time in the future. It would be a serious blow to American credibility if the Iraqis had to wait an indefinite number of years for the democracy that the U.S. government promised to them. The frustrations and sacrifices of involvement in Iraq should not cause the United States to give up and pass the buck onto the United Nations, a source for further frustration. Instead, the United States should increase cooperation with the Iraqis themselves. Efforts to train them and put more Iraqis into the roles currently occupied by American troops should be continued and expanded. Not only would such cooperation free more U.S. soldiers to root out the terrorists, but it would help the Iraqis learn how to run their own very different country.

Last I checked, the Constitution doesn’t say anything about banning gay marriages

What would you do if someone told you that you live in a free country but you won’t be allowed the same rights as most people? You won’t be allowed to adopt a child, you won’t be allowed tax-free inheritance of your spouse’s property, and you won’t be allowed basic health and tax benefits granted to a spouse. In short, you would be denied basic rights granted to virtually all other married couples simply because of who you are. In America, a country that was founded on the premise that all individuals have an equal right to the pursuit of happiness, how can we possibly feel that we can deny individuals basic rights based merely on their sexual orientation?

Marriage is and always has been a religious and cultural institution, present in some form in nearly every human civilization throughout history in order to both promote the perpetuation of that civilization and to form the basis of some sort of family unit. Today in America, marriage has somehow moved from being a cultural and religious institution to being a way for the government to bestow rights on some individuals and not others. This is how the problems got started. Marriage is not now and never has been the business of the State. The moral and sentimental approval based on marriage is notthe state’s business to grant to straight or gay couples. The simple solution is for the State to stop approving marriage for both straight and gay couples and instead simply carry out its legal role of granting those additional rights to one’s spouse, whoever that spouse may be. Whether or not a couple is “married” is up to their religious group, community, and friends to decide. When people stop thinking of gay marriage as the government sanctioning of homosexual behavior and start thinking of gay marriage as ensuring equal rights for all as guaranteed by the constitution, many people will be much more accepting.

The American public has recently shown itself to be much more embracing of the homosexual community than ever before. The success of shows such as “Queer as Folk” and “Queer Eye for the Straight Guy” demonstrate how people no longer view homosexuals as people who should be ashamed of their lifestyle and live behind closed doors. Even the Episcopal Church has taken the plunge and nominated an openly gay bishop. If the president and many in Congress would stop trying to turn the government into the morality police and start doing their jobs of conferring equal rights to all, we could finally truthfully say that this country is about ensuring the equal pursuit of happiness to all.

DAVID CROW

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2003

Honor Code ‘study’ finds 100% adherence

From the (fictional) public relations mind of Nicholas Carlson ‘05.

A new study released yesterday by the Davidson College admissions department reveals an enthusiastic adherence to the school’s renowned Honor Code amongst its students. The ambitious study aimed to discover the precise number of infractions against the Code on campus. The data was drawn from anonymous surveys, Honor Council cases, and police reports during the 2002-2003 school year. The study has been released just in time for the fall application season and the department is excited to include this information in their discussions with prospective students as they make the tough decisions that face them in their near future.

The study also seems to suggest that last year’s minor revisions to the Honor Code are at least partly responsible for the staggering drop in suspected offenses. Prior to last year’s amendments, the school’s Honor Code stated:

Each Davidson student is honor bound to refrain from stealing, lying about College business, and cheating on academic work. Stealing is the intentional taking of any property without right or permission. Lying is intentional misrepresentation of any form. Cheating is any practice, method, or assistance, whether explicitly forbidden or unmentioned, that involves any degree of dishonesty, fraud, or deceit. Cheating includes plagiarism, which is representing another’s ideas or words as one’s own.

Just before the Admissions department commissioned their study, the Code’s wording was changed for the sake of clarity so that the sentences now read:

Each Davidson student is honor bound to refrain from stealing, lying about College business, and cheating on academic work. Stealing is the intentional taking of any property, excepting those times when you really need to borrow the unlocked bike in front of your dorm and nobody will notice and hell if you forget, it’s not like it’s a huge campus anyway (also, laundry detergent? If you leave it...I’m usin’ it), without right or permission. Lying is intentional misrepresentation of any form excepting cases when it’s your buddy’s 20th birthday, or at least in the same month as, and the RA really doesn’t care anyway so why not just give ‘em the name of that sub-free kid who talks all the damn time in class just to show off for the prof. Cheating is any practice, method, or assistance, whether explicitly forbidden or unmentioned, that involves any degree of dishonesty, fraud, or deceit that is of course unless if you could’ve memorized the answers and then just forgotten them anyway so why not just jot them down off your notes when you get a take-home test. It’s all the same in the end. Cheating includes plagiarism, which is putting the parenthetical citation before the period, not after.

Also mentioned in the report was a switch made for bureaucratic simplification; acts of violence against Canadian waterfowl which result in criminal charges now fall under the jurisdiction of the Code of Responsibility.

“Oh yeah,” enthused one admissions administrator, “we really think this confirms Davidson’s growing strength...look out Top Five, here we come!”