10 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2003

Basketball teams look to senior leaders as tip-off nears

Five women, two men prepare to lead teams

By Erin Delk
Staff Writer

With the fall sports season winding down, Davidson fans can begin to turn their attention to an exciting time of
the year: basketball season. All the 7 a.m. weightlifting sessions, the exhausting individual workouts, and the monotony of playing against
the same players will soon pay off for the men’s and women’s basketball players.

The men start their season first, with a nationally televised ESPN game against Texas Tech in the Preseason NIT on
Nov. 18. The women travel to Michigan for the Spartan Classic Tournament, where they will face Michigan State on Nov.
22. With both seasons less than three weeks away, it is time to introduce the players. Each week, the Davidsonian
will feature a different class, and what better place to start than with the seniors?

On the women’s side, the five seniors are undisputedly the backbone of the team. Three of the five players have
been regular starters since their freshman year, and, as Katie Delk '06 remarked, “even though only two of the seniors
hold the official title of captain, the team really looks to all five for leadership.”

Anchoring the interior post position is center Meghan Bryant. With great hands and impressive athleticism, Bryant’s “sheer presence is unmatchable,”
says Emily Callahan '05. Sixth all-time in field goal percentage at Davidson and second in blocked shots, Bryant should play
a key role as an inside presence that will create opportunities for the rest of her teammates.

—Prollage by Peder
Top (from left): Lindsay Shade, Robyn Flewelling, Ashley Hallsted, Courtney Laird, and Meghan Bryant. Bottom: Terrell Ivory and Jouni Eho.

Filling out the forward spot is co-captain Courtney Laird. Teammates say her passion and intensity make her vital to the
success of the team. Head coach Annette Watts says that “Courtney has fine-tuned her footwork over the summer and has
sharpened the accuracy of her three-point shot. She brings a defensive savvy to our inside game that is unmatched in
the league.”

At the point guard position is Laird’s high school teammate and fellow co-captain, Ashley Hallsted. A three-year starter, Hallsted is
ninth in the Davidson record books for assists and for three-point field goals attempted and made. But her importance to
the team goes much deeper than just statistics. Watts says Hallsted “thrives on making the big plays and finishing. Ashley
missed only four free throws in 18 league games last season.”

The other senior point guard for the ’Cats is Lindsay Shade. Initially coming to the team as a walk-on, Shade
has earned a scholarship and has since played a significant role on the team as a playmaker and three-point shooter.
Shade led the Southern Conference last year in assist-to-turnover ratio. Watts describes her as “game smart and a gritty shooter.”

The last senior, Robyn Flewelling, is the most versatile, able to play the one, two, and three positions. As Janell
Crayton ’06 noted, “Robyn leads both by example and encouragement.” Eighth all-time in free throw percentage, Flewelling has one of
the purest shots on the team, and she has also “emerged as our best perimeter defender who will again have
the assignment of stopping the opposition’s best guard this season,” according to Watts.

Moving on to the men’s side, the ‘Cats only have two seniors, captains Jouni Eho and Terrell Ivory. Ivory is
a third-year walk-on whose role on the team has gradually increased throughout his career. Playing backup point guard for Wayne
Bernard last year, Ivory developed his leadership role on the court, one that “will become much larger this year,” says
Matt McKillop ’06. “T.I. always plays under control, and he knows how to use his quickness and skills to the
best of his ability, making him a very deceiving player.” Ivory is competing with transfer junior Kenny Grant for the
starting point guard position.

Like Ivory, Eho has begun to step into hisRole as senior captain. He “is a very hard worker. His work
ethic really rubs off on the younger guys on the team,” noted Eric Blancett '05. Brendan Winters '06 agreed: “His
biggest contribution is his leadership. He also brings versatility to the team as he can play both the three and
four spots and can shoot the ball exceptionally well.” Eho’s pure shot and 6’6” height provide head coach Bob McKillop
with a player whose depth should make a tremendous impact on the court. But Coach McKillop believes that the importance
of this class lies in their great leadership: “Their scoring, rebounding, and assists are not nearly as significant as their
daily role in practice of setting the tone with their work ethic and their will to win.”

Inside the mind of a runner
By WALKER Saik
Staff Writer

Runners: an odd breed. Weird. Scrawny. Flaky. Crazy. Stupid. Enigmatic. Goofy. Utterly, impossibly idiotic. Cocky. Tough. Confident. Strong-willed. Prepared. Prideful.
Focused. Describe a runner any way you like. The list is never-ending, but while everyone has some sort of adjective
to toss out, few can explain the mentality of a runner. What makes him or her tick? Why run?

Why, when the sun has already begun to set on an already cold, crisp fall evening, would anyone step out
in their shortest shorts and meander the stretch along Grey Road for a ten-mile excursion? Why would anyone head out
to the cross-country trails with full intention of putting his or her body through gut-wrenching, leg-cramping, unimaginably painful mile repeats?
Why, when their knees already ache and their backs have been tight since last Monday, would any runner head out
the door to complete their umpteenth consecutive day of running? Why, when the rest of Davidson College is knocked out
after a long night of Patterson Court, would anyone in their right mind wake up at 6:30 a.m. to run
in a race where the goal is to see who can put their body through the most excruciating pain for
the longest period of time?

It’s a difficult question to answer. Some may say weight loss is the motivation, but I can assure you that
there are much more fun ways to try to lose weight. Others may decide running is the healthy way to
daily exercise, but after a few long runs and high mileage weeks, it doesn’t take a Davidson grad to tell
you that running isn’t exactly a breather on your joints. Many may even say they do it for the running-buddy
“social scene,” but go out on a few friendly runs, and most will stop socializing after that second hill, just
a few minutes into the run. And the answer sure doesn’t lie in tear-wrenching glory, local fame, or a gigantic
athletic budget.

So why isn’t running the most boring, awful, worthless sport in existence? Well, it is—for those non-runners, of course. But
for those that consider themselves a member of the very small class of runners, it’s much more than a daily
exercise, weight loss routine, or social event. It’s a way of life. Runners compete. There’s no jogging in their sport,
and there’s not a day without just a little bit of discomfort, whether it be fatigued legs, a pushed pace,
or aching muscles. But it’s that daily discomfort, numbing pain on some days, that runners live for. They strive to
push themselves beyond their limits and then go that extra mile.

Then they stop, and here’s the kicker, the fait accompli, the grand finale: the feeling that all runners know about
but few talk about. Satisfaction. Complete and utter satisfaction fills a runner’s bones at that fateful moment. Another run is
complete; another day of training has callused itself on their muscles; another day is done. Ask anyone who has finished
a Sunday long run on a calm, cool night, and they’ll tell you about how the world stops at that
moment. Everything feels finished. Studying, socializing, homework, running, they’re all done, and it’s the least urgency anyone will ever feel
here at Davidson College.

So any time you stare out your window on a bitterly cold winter afternoon and see a flushed, snot-ridden runner
hauling it up a hill while hacking up a huge loogie, realize why they do it. It’s about the cool
air on a warm body. It’s about the pain. It’s about the finish. It’s about the satisfaction.
