10 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2003

Seniors lead women in shortened tennis opener

By Eric SWENSON
Staff Writer

Fresh off their victory over top-seeded Furman and their subsequent appearance in the Southern Conference Championship match last season, the Davidson women’s tennis team opened its fall tournament schedule this past weekend at the Doctors Vision Center Invitational Tournament at UNC-Wilmington. In addition to the hosts and the Wildcats, the tournament featured competitors from four schools: UNC-Greensboro, UNC-Charlotte, College of Charleston, and Barton College.

The tournament format consisted of four singles flights and two doubles flights, all of which were played as a round robin except for singles flights B and C. With the whole team traveling to this early-season event, several Wildcats competed in each flight. Initially planned to take place Friday through Sunday, the tournament was compressed into two days on Saturday and Sunday due to Hurricane Isabel. The result was two action-packed days of tennis, with most women playing up to four matches a day. According to head coach Caroline Price, “We played from sunrise to sunset two days in a row, and icepacks were everywhere!”

The Davidson women faced stiff competition in the singles flights, with only senior captain Katherine Hatch (flight B) advancing to the semifinals. She would go on to take home the third place crown, toppling Kathy Robey (UNCC) 9-7 in a highly contested competition. Recent cross country standout Kelly Fillnow ’05 joined teammates Lindsey Powell ’06 and Kate Levitt ’07 in flight A. Fillnow and Levitt each finished the day on Sunday with a 2-2 record. Levitt, in her first collegiate tournament, showed signs of a bright future. As Price observed, “She showed a lot of promise, winning some big matches against big players, and walked away with an impressive .500 record.”

Said Powell of the singles competition, “The teams invited to the tournament were very solid and gave us some tough competition, especially in singles, which is exactly what we’re looking for during the fall tournament experience.”

While the strong competition of the singles flights gave the Wildcats difficulty, Davidson’s doubles teams represented themselves well. Powell and Sarah Borkowski ’05 teamed up to take home the flight A doubles title, avenging last year’s loss to Charleston by defeating Lauren Stewart and Rachel Magory (C of C) 8-6 in the semifinals before dismantling Ofra Friedman and Robey (UNCC) 8-6 in the championship match. Fillnow and Levitt, teaming up for the first time, also competed in the flight A doubles, winning their final two matches on Sunday against teams from UNCW to finish with a 3-1 record in the flight.

Strong doubles play is not a foreign concept to the team, as they combined for a 35-19 overall doubles record during last year’s spring season. Price acknowledged the doubles competition as the high point of the weekend, commenting: “Our doubles play was the highlight of the tournament. We played some outstanding doubles over the course of the two days, with Powell and Borkowski playing some of the best doubles we’ve seen to win the championship.”

The Wildcats will take the momentum and experience they gained this weekend into the N.C. State Fall Invitational Tournament, October 3-5 in Raleigh.Vandy soccer tourney
By GEOFF FEHLING
Staff Writer

Goalkeeper Bart Creasman ’05 led the Wildcats last weekend to an undefeated performance in the Vanderbilt/Puma Soccer Tournament in Nashville, Tennessee. Improving their overall record to 4-1-2 this season, Davidson took home the tournament title while Creasman was named the tournament MVP. Along with Creasman, John Latting ’06, Justin Porter ’04, and Nick Hansell ’04 were also named to the All-Tournament team.

“It is great to be able to come away with the tournament crown at a quality tournament with four solid programs,” said head coach Matt Spear. “In winning both games two weeks ago at the UNLV Tournament, plus grabbing tournament cups last year at Army and before that at Bradley, we take pride in coming out on top of other teams and programs.”

The ’Cats started the weekend with a Friday night match against Vanderbilt as they looked to take a win from the tournament hosts. Neither team triumphed, however, as the game ended in a double-overtime 1-1 tie. Vanderbilt scored first with a quick goal about ten minutes into the second half. Later in the half, Davidson fought back and scored off a corner kick by Cass Baltz ’07. Latting headed the ball from the far post towards the net and Porter put it away to even the score. Neither team was able to produce any more goals the rest of the half and through both overtime periods. The 110-minute match was extremely physical, and there were 11 yellow cards and over 40 fouls handed out. Both teams entered the half scoreless thanks to Creasman’s efforts. Creasman stopped eight out of the nine shot attempts he faced.

“Bart had a terrific game, definitely one of the positives,” said Spear. “He had two or three really big saves in the first half and made few mistakes.”

Davidson was ready for Western Kentucky on Sunday, as they scored in the first 14 minutes of play. Hansell fed a ball to Mac Wilkie ’07, who scored the Wildcats’ first goal.

“Mac’s first collegiate goal was a very important and impressive one,” commented Spear.

Entering the second half with the score still favoring Davidson 1-0, Western Kentucky found the back of the net, getting a ball past Creasman as they got around the Wildcat defense. Creasman kept the Hilltoppers scoreless for the rest of the match, getting five more saves, while Hansell scored the game-winning goal at the 68-minute mark. Hansell’s goal was a boost for the team’s spirit.

“It was very positive for Nick to get the game-winner today,” said Spear. “It is definitely a confidence builder for him. I also enjoyed watching David Peoples [’04] get more involved in our attack, and his assist [on Hansell’s goal] was special and game-breaking.”

In the two weekend games, Creasman stopped thirteen opponent shots and allowed only two goals while playing over 200 minutes.

OCTOBER
4 Brackett Bluffs Service Day
10-14 Fall Break Trips
Intermediate Kayaking
Canoeing at Bull and Capers Island
18-19 Tree Climbing

GET OUT! with Davidson Outdoors
Sign up for Fall Trips at DO in the basement of the Union!
21 Mountain Biking Day Trip

NOVEMBER
1 Intermediate Climbing
14-16 Backpacking
22-23 Caving at Tawney's/Pig Hole

WINTER BREAK
Everglades!!