Album Review

Gough's latest effort hits an uneven, mediocre note

By Colby Broadwater
Special Contributor

Celebrated British songwriter Damon Gough (aka Badly Drawn Boy) has made a huge jump with his new album, “Have You
Fed the Fish,” from the lo-fi Nick Drake-inspired folk music that launched his career in Manchester in the late '90s.
His first album, “The Hour of Bewilderbeast,” was both a critical and commercial success. Gough claims Bruce Springsteen as his
greatest influence, and sometimes that influence strains through the quirky balladry that defines this record. “Have You Fed the Fish”
has an unstable quality that defines the Manchester native’s uncharacteristic personality.

The album begins with a goofy, self-deprecating skit. It sets the tone for what will be a playful trip into
the artist’s family life. The skit is followed by a useless instrumental that leads into the title track of the
album. The song is based on a daily event at the Gough household, the feeding of the family fish. The
track is terrible; it combines the over-the-top production of a late-70s rock ballad with sentimental songwriting. At this point, I
am wondering how I was stuck reviewing this album.

However, by the middle tracks of the album, Gough has retained the level of excellence he achieved in “Hour.” “Born
Again,” “40 Days,” “I Was Wrong,” and “You Were Right” are all tracks that are worthy of Gough’s talent. The
gem of the album surfaces in the middle of these tracks. The song “All Possibilities” is that gem. Gough’s enthusiasm
for the piece is infectious. He is having fun with this song and it shows. On the B-side, Gough returns
to the poorly written and poorly produced qualities that ruined the first two tracks of “Have You Fed the Fish.”

During 2002, Gough released two full-length records, the “About a Boy” soundtrack and “Have You Fed the Fish.” He also
had a child and toured extensively. But his busy schedule should not be an excuse for this record’s level of
mediocrity.

If Gough hopes to regain the acclaim that followed his first record, he is going to have to spend a
little less time with his family and a little more time in the studio.

---

Spike echoes nation’s struggles with memorable ‘25th Hour’

After the 9/11 terror attacks, the nation attempted to find a voice and express mixed feelings of hate and fear.

Spike Lee’s “25th Hour” is perhaps the first feature film to directly address those struggles.

The film, starring Edward Norton as a drug dealer spending one final day surrounded by friends and family before beginning
a seven-year jail sentence, offers an effective metaphor for the nation’s emotional struggles in the post-9/11 world.

Trying to express the emotions of a nation on film is a difficult challenge, one that a controversial director like
Spike Lee and renowned actor Norton felt ready to try.

“25th Hour” is the result of their collaboration, offering audiences an emotional roller coaster that parallels America’s rise out of
the ashes of that tragic day.

With an upscale apartment in New York City, a beautiful girlfriend (Rosario Dawson), loyal childhood friends (Barry Pepper and Philip
Seymour Hoffman), and a loving father (Brian Cox), Monty Brogan appears to have enjoyed the rewards of a life as
a drug dealer, seemingly untouchable by police officials.

However, when an anonymous tip to the police gets Monty convicted and sentenced to a seven-year jail term, reality destroys
Monty’s perfect world.

As the film opens, Monty begins his final day of freedom. Facing seven years away from friends and family, Monty
laments his past life, expresses anger at his chaotic present, and fear of the uncertain future.

With the prospect of being alone for seven years, Monty sees three options - flee his sentence, suicide, or accepting
his fate in jail. This emotional and psychological uncertainty parallels America’s state after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11.

In a pivotal sequence, Norton faces into the mirror of his father’s restaurant in which the words “FU” are written.

Taken as a direct insult on Monty, he vents his hatred for all minority groups he understands to be problematic
and a detriment to his individual life, including Osama bin Laden and the terrorists of 9/11.

But that initial rage soon subsides, and Monty looks to ways to rise up from his misfortune and establish a
stronger existence than before. In a similar way, America has used the tragic events of Sept. 11 as a means
to strengthen our way of life and defend it against terrorist aggressors.

With heart-wrenching accuracy, fine performances by Norton and the entire cast, and the directorial job of Spike Lee, “25th Hour”
embodies the emotions of our nation since the tragic events of Sept. 11.

With Lee’s latest project, the director offers audiences a visual account of a post-9/11 America, developing a film well worth
the trip to Concord Mills to see.

From Left: Pepper, Norton, and Hoffman in “25th Hour.”
