Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Staff Editorial

Turning the tables: a midterm review

Continuing its tradition, the Davidsonian takes a step back to comment on the state of affairs at the midpoint of the semester. Dozens of young alumni returned to campus for Homecoming over the weekend, but they weren’t exactly welcomed with open arms into Saturday’s football game. It seems that unless they received VIP invitations, alumni are expected to pay the $9 price of admission to get into Richardson Stadium, just like the general public. It shouldn’t be that way. Why not allow all grads to watch the Homecoming game for free? Shouldn’t they be treated like family, particularly if they had to travel long distances to return to campus for this one weekend? Many young alumni happily chatted on the Union patio during the game, but at least a few were overheard wondering whether they could enter the stadium without having to shell out even more cash than they’d already spent on travel and lodgings. You don’t ask your relatives to pay their own way when they’re guests in your house, and Homecoming at Davidson should be no different.

Campus Police began the year with a sharp crackdown on drinking on campus. For many students living down the hill, this change in enforcement policy manifested itself in the presence of the “bike cop” in trees and wandering the halls of Knox, Akers, and Irwin. With such a strong Code of Responsibility in place at Davidson, many students questioned the need for such draconian policing, and blamed the increase in alcohol citations on new Director of Public Safety Fountain Walker. Strict enforcement needs to be weighed against student reaction. If the increase in alcohol citations makes students wary about drinking on campus, they will quite possibly drink off campus. The risk of students driving while intoxicated is surely graver than stumbling around Patterson Court.

The ongoing construction has limited 24-hour computer use. The Belk 24-hour lab only has 10 PCs and two Macs. As is increasingly evident as the midterm-to-finals stretch of the semester begins, this lab is inadequate for late night and Sunday morning student work.

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2003

Ali Fitzgerald

School’s response to racism inconsistent

It is of my opinion that the focus of this school is namely to remain a reputable institution in the eyes of the alum and future incoming students. Though this may seem plain enough, there are sacrifices that must be made in order to maintain this image, more specifically that of morals. I often find it ironic that a school whose foundation is based on the hallowed “honor code” fails to live by this creed, and with this statement the emphasis is on the administration. I find it very practical, convenient, and cynical for this school’s administration to take such a firm stance against the faceless perpetrators that spray-painted “KKK” upon this campus. Though this creates a great cover story for The Davidsonian, this stance is in fact artificial. This is the same administration that has turned a blind eye to actual instances of racism that have occurred on this campus. I am not speaking from hearsay but from actual experience. Earlier this year I was a victim of the standard “aggressive black man” attacks apoor defenseless white woman” story. The chief of police, the president of the school, the head of RLO, two firetrucks, and an ambulance greeted me at two in the morning. I, in fact, applaud the school’s swift response. It spared no expense. But despite the evidence completely supporting my account of the night, I was called into an office, alone with a dean and presented with a letter calling for my apology, and under the threat of criminal charges to follow if I did not comply (I was informed that a lawyer had been contacted). These are classic bullying and intimidating scare tactics. This is wrong. This is not honor. Not only was she not held responsible for filing false assault charges, the dean who tried to threaten one of his fellow students was not held responsible. If our administration is not held to some higher code of ethics then how can we possibly ever fathom a campus that will. I have not committed any crime here nor in my life, even though I was treated like a common criminal on a campus I am expected, and encouraged, to call my own. Racism indeed has a face, and until we as an institution are strong enough to take a stance against this, a firm and real stance against it, there will be no change on this campus. We can chase ghosts all that we want but that is what one does for good headlines and to ensure that donations continue to ensue. Given all of this, to ask the attending minorities to recruit more is an unreasonable request.

Jason Ford ’04

Damage of school property must stop

“Shape up or ship out.” Every Davidson student has heard this, although it was probably being said to someone else. Despite some exceptions, I find it hard to imagine that someone could find time to earn grades good enough for acceptance to Davidson College and complete the massive application while wreaking havoc elsewhere. Yesterday, I discovered that my eating house was the victim of property damage and larceny. Sadly, the officer only had to walk across the street from where he was reporting a smashed window. Fires set, property damaged, and who could forget the champion of the recent vandalisms? So few people in the world receive any education, and here we are, attending one of the ten best liberal arts colleges in the country. We call the President “Bobby.” Professors invite us to dinner and trust us to take tests in our rooms. Brick paths lead up to the building where Davidson employees do our laundry for us. If you want to paint KKK on walls, damage houses, or trash dorms, do it elsewhere. I’m sure someone would be willing to take your place here. As long as there are those of us who feel sheer anger when others blatantly disrespect this school, the code of responsibility will be alive here, and your actions will not change that. This behavior is unacceptable. Take it somewhere else. I assure you, it won’t be missed. The vandalism must stop. Shape up or ship out.

Brynn Welch ’05

A DOSA FILOSA, BY: LAURA FILOSA

CALIFORNIA REPUBLIC