___ Wednesday, March 26, 2003

Finally: Baseball picks up first conference win at Wofford

Junior Akin earns win over Terriers, giving up one hit in 4.2 innings

By Jerry Davis

Staff Writer

The ’Cats lost two disappointing games, both decided by the final batter, on Saturday but made sure to leave Wofford
with some satisfaction.

The team prevailed on Sunday with a 6-5 victory, its first in conference play.

Feeling pressured, and eager to get their first conference win, the ’Cats managed a late comeback in game one, and
broke out to a 4-0 lead in game two.

The team was unable to pull out the victory in either game, and, with the losses, the ’Cats (1-10) fell
to last place in the conference standings.

“The series against Wofford was somewhat discouraging, but an improvement on the games prior to the series,” said third baseman
Jay Heafner ’06.

“I think we were a little pressured going into the series in that we thought we had to sweep, or
at least win 2 games.”

In game one of the doubleheader, Heafner singled home Michael Muniz ‘05 in the top of the ninth to tie
the game at 4-4.

Then in the tenth, Sam Navarro ’05 hit a solo home run to put the ’Cats up 5-4.

Freshman pitcher Taylor Shoop fires a pitch during a recent baseball game. The Wildcats picked up their first conference victory
Sunday.

In the bottom of the ninth, Wofford loaded the bases with one out.

After getting the force at second, a throwing error by D.J. Dailey ’03 allowed the tying and winning runs to
cross the plate.

The nightcap began optimistically in Davidson’s pursuit to win a conference game.

Jumping out to a 4-0 lead after two innings, the ’Cats allowed the Terriers to get back in the game
and take the lead at 6-5.

Women’s tennis wins third straight, this one over ETSU

Sports Information Press Release

The Davidson women’s tennis team recorded its first conference victory of the season on a sunny Tuesday afternoon at Covington
Courts, topping East Tennessee State, 6-1.

The Wildcats (7-3, 1-1) have now won their last three matches heading into a showdown with top conference opponent Furman.

ETSU, after ending a seven-match losing streak against Western Carolina on Sunday, struggled to remain in the win column, falling
to 9-12 overall, 1-4 in conference action.

Once again, Davidson managed to attack early and earn the doubles point. The Wildcats are now 7-0 when taking the
early lead.

At the top position, sophomores Kelly Fillnow and Meghan Fillnow shut out Gemma Halim and Jessica Irey, 8-0.

While Davidson’s number two combo of sophomore Meggie Patterson and freshman Lindsey Powel faltered, junior Katherine Hatch and sophomore Sarah
Borkowski picked up an 8-5 victory over Jewel Aldea and Courtney McKinnis at number three.

The Wildcats are 7-1 when Hatch and Borkowski pick up a doubles win.

Davidson had little trouble in singles action. Powel shut out Aldea 6-0, 6-0 at the number four position. This was
the third straight match that Powel has competed against another freshman - she has won all three contests and is
currently on a four-match winning streak.

Kelly Fillnow defeated Sylwia Ziolkowska, 6-1, 6-3, at number one and Patterson handled Halim, 6-2, 6-3, at number two.

Meghan Fillnow continued her superior spring play, improving to 9-1 overall with a 6-2, 6-3 victory over Irey at number
three.

Hatch also won her singles match at the five position.

The Wildcats will look for their first road win of the season on Sunday at Furman.

In a last attempt to come back, Dailey hit a two-out single and later scored on Navarro’s double off the
wall to tie the ballgame.

Consistent with the day, the Terriers once again came back in the bottom of the ninth when Brian Casey hit
an RBI single off reliever Erskine Wells ’03, scoring the winning run and ending a disappointing day for the Wildcats.

“Although we played well on Saturday, we didn’t play consistent enough to win,” stated Heafner.

“The difference in Sunday’s game was that our approach was more aggressive yet more relaxed.”

The aggressiveness of the ’Cats was evident in the team’s season-high fourteen-hit performance.

Eli Benefield ’05 collected three hits, and Muniz hit his first career home run and triple.

The game was won on a wild pitch in the top of the ninth, scoring Mark Williams ’03.

Reliever Brian Akin ’04 got the win on the mound, surrendering only one hit in 4.2 innings pitched.

Akin, a junior from Louisville, Ky., was pleased with the performance.

“It was nice to get that first conference win under our belt,” said Akin. “Hopefully, it will be the first
of a long streak of wins.”

With two-fifths of the conference season completed, the ’Cats are in desperate need of a turnaround.

The best opportunity to get some games back will come this weekend in a series with the Appalachian State Mountaineers,
a team who stands in second to last place (the position Wofford was in before its two wins this weekend).

The Wildcats hope to fare better with Mountaineers than they did Terriers.

The ’Cats play again on Wednesday at 7:00 p.m. at Duke.

They hope the climb out of the cellar will begin in a two-game conference series with Appalachian State at home
on Saturday at noon and Sunday at 1:00 p.m.

Weekend Baseball Series at Wildcat Park
Wildcats vs. Appalachian State
Saturday, noon and Sunday, 1 p.m.

Peace Corps

Get practical experience while living an adventure.

Davidson

Information Table

Information Session

Contact recruiter Sherlene McCarther: smccarther@peacecorps.gov or 800-424-8580.

www.peacecorps.gov

800-424-8580
