Be ia HE LAVIDSONIAN! iid ate: “4 2. Pie APE ae Fa RES Be SG oy rR

Fellows, from page 1

[which] views a piece of music through considerations of race, gender, national identity, and sexuality, amongst other considerations.” His Mellon
submission represents this interest, as it explores the metaphor of an AIDS quilt created by John Corigliano’s first symphony. He
also noted that Fenimore is the latest of several recent music majors to distinguish themselves in the field of musicology,
adding, “Ross’s prestigious achievement is important for both Davidson College and also the discipline and the subfield of cultural studies,
which doesn’t often see students winning Mellon fellowships.”

On Monday, Fenimore decided to accept a fully funded position in UCLA’s musicology Ph.D. program.

Welsh is a Classics major intending to study Classical Philology. “When I started out at Davidson, I was going to
be a studio art major. In my first year I had a few wonderful courses in the Classics department and
I decided I wanted to learn a lot more about the ancient world,” Welsh said. Of the Mellon, he said,
“It is an amazing honor. I’m just thrilled.” The award will support Welsh as he pursues a Ph.D. at Harvard
next year. His advisor, Associate Professor of Classics Jeanne O’Neill, said, “Jarrett’s the best Latinist I’ve ever taught. He has
a real contribution to make to Classical Philology, particularly to the study of Roman comedy. His approach to and his
understanding of Roman comedy is, in my opinion, already at an advanced graduate level. As an undergraduate he’s doing things
that have not been done before,” O’Neill said.

“One of the best things about the Mellon process was the willingness of Davidson professors to offer support and advice,
even if I hadn’t had a class with them before,” Welsh said.

Dr. Scott Denham, Associate Professor of German, currently chairs the Graduate Fellowships Committee. The GFC works with students on their
applications, and in the case of the Mellon scholarships, conducts mock-interviews with candidates who reach the semi-finalist level. “We really
grill them” during the 45-minute interview, Denham said. The GFC reads candidates’ applications very closely, often going through six or
eight drafts, Denham said. He emphasized that Mellons are “judged nationally by very prominent scholars in the Humanities. The Mellon
committee seeks to give the award to those who will go on to become leaders in their fields.”

Because of the competitive nature of postgraduate programs today, virtually all applicants who get a spot are fully funded. Thus,
“The Mellon is this extra kind of gold star, really competitive icing on the cake,” Denham said.

J.D. Willson ’02 and Kristine Grayson ’03 were each recently awarded an NSF Graduate Research Fellowship. The awards offer a
three-year stipend of $27,500 per year and an annual tuition aid of $10,500. The awards go to students beginning graduate
study in research-oriented master’s or doctorate programs in mathematics or the sciences.

Dr. Karen Bernd, Assistant Professor of Biology, said, “One thing that I don’t think may be as widely known is
just how competitive the NSF graduate fellowship program is. The fellowship draws applicants ranging from seniors in college through second-year
graduate students. Kristine and J.D. both earned awards on their first try in a competition where some people apply two
and three years in a row.”

Assistant Professor of Biology Dr. Michael Dorcas advised both Willson and Grayson. He said, “These are the most prestigious fellowships
in the entire country for graduate students in the sciences.”

Willson, a Boston native who graduated with honors, said he wrote his thesis “on the effects of development on stream-salamanders
in the Davidson area.” This was the culmination of two years of independent research under Dr. Dorcas. Willson’s senior thesis
will soon be published in the prestigious journal Conservation Biology, and Dorcas said three others of his Davidson papers would
also be published soon. In the past year, Willson has been working at the University of Georgia’s Savannah River Ecology
Laboratory conducting reptile and amphibian surveys, and will begin graduate studies at the University of Georgia in the fall.

Grayson said, “Researching in the herpetology lab under Dr. Dorcas for two years confirmed my desire to pursue a Ph.D.
in ecology and conservation.” Grayson’s honor thesis is “Seasonal Body Temperature Variation in Painted Turtles,” and she submitted this along
with a paper on South American horned frogs to peer-reviewed journals. Grayson’s research enterprises are just beginning, her advisor, also
Dorcas, said. “Recently, in collaboration with David Wessner, she began developing protocols for using microsatellites to evaluate the effects of
habitat fragmentation on semi-aquatic turtles.” Grayson has won a variety of awards beyond the NSF grant, including a Watson Fellowship,
a Sigma Xi, and the best student poster presentation at a scientific meeting in Taiwan. After deferring graduate work a
year due to her Watson, Grayson will work on her Ph.D. under Ray Semlitsch at the University of Missouri. Grayson
said, “I am very excited to continue field research on ecological questions that will hopefully improve conservation efforts on quickly
disappearing species and ecosystems.”

DenhamHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

had a message for current students, saying, “The GFC is here to help you to offer advice to students applying
for postgraduate fellowships and scholarships. The students earn their awards, but we are here to help them.”

Forum, from page 1

arisen. What I’m saying is that [students] aren’t learning anything.” Square said Davidson has only provided her with a narrow
perspective of humanity. “It is very stifling here,” admitted Square. However, several students recognized that, despite these issues, Davidson has
provided them with a vast number of opportunities. Said Tiffany Hollis ’04, “Davidson has grown on me. I have found
a passion and my outlet here.” Kelley added, “I think that one of the most important conclusions reached from our
discussion is the fact that many of the students feel that they have had a wealth of opportunities via Davidson
that they would not have received at many other schools that have made this experience valuable, and that the majority
would choose Davidson again.”

Leslie Grinage ’03 also remarked on the important roles minority students play on campus. She said minorities should fight against
any ignorance found on campus. “It’s a great power that we have. We can speak our minds and open others’
at the same time,” she said.

In contrast, a handful of students stated they would not attend Davidson if they could go back and do it
all over again. Kea Sherwood ’04 said, “All I could think about was what’s the most prestigious school I could
get into. But if I had the opportunity, I wouldn’t come here again.”

The participants also found the apathy towards minority issues and the tendency to complain about what is wrong on campus
to be a huge contradiction. Said Erin Stephens ’05, “I hear more complaints than I see people doing something about
them.” Added Grinage, “If you regret it here, say something about it.” She also commended the administration for making improvements
and listening to students’ problems.

Students regretting their decisions voiced concerns about the coming weekend’s events. Said Brandon Zeigler ’05, “I don’t think I should
be here during Decision Davidson.” He, along with others, asked what they should say to prospective students. "Help them make
decisions that are the best fits for them,” said Stephens.

Participants realized that enjoyment of college differs from one individual to the next. Although some students regretted coming here, most
of the participants at the forum found that life at Davidson is far from hopeless. From trying different activities, to
creating support systems for other students like themselves, to battling ignorance they see on campus, much can be done to
better their Davidson experiences. Kelley said, “The discussion showed students that, in part, the quality of their experience here will
be what they make of it, and that sometimes you have to actively seek out different avenues in order to
achieve happiness.”

Cable TV in dorms debate surfaces again at SGA

By GEORGIA AHRENDT
Staff Writer

Discussion at the SGA meeting on Thursday was dominated by debate over a resolution, which encourages the administration to bring
free cable to Davidson students. Jack Hubbard ’06, incoming sophomore class president, submitted the resolution with the help of Adam
Sperling ’04 and Charles Washington ’04. The resolution asks that the cable ports be turned on for members of the
rising sophomore, junior, and senior classes. The freshman class has been left out of the resolution as a compromise with
the administration.

The administration’s main concern with cable activation is that students’ academic performance will decrease and freshmen especially will not take
as many opportunities on campus that could involve them in the college. The resolution, however, cites that the nation’s top
liberal arts schools, Amherst and Williams, offer cable access, but they “have not suffered academically.” The resolution also cites that
the senior apartments have cable access but no negative consequences. Cable access has been requested several times before in previous
years but never put into place. Many SGA members hope that next year will finally bring about action after the
passing of this resolution.

After debate over whether or not cable was actually necessary for the students, the resolution was passed.

Also addressed at the meeting were issues concerning newly admitted Davidson students. Admissions representative Deb Hogg spoke to the SGA
about how the students can get involved in encouraging admitted students to come to Davidson. She suggested that people drop
by the admissions office before and after tours, which occur at 9 a.m., 10 a.m., 1 p.m., and 2 p.m.
The admissions office also hopes that students can contact those who have been admitted from their hometowns to tell them
about the college and their experiences. A list of all the admitted students is posted on the first floor of
Chambers. Lastly, Admissions encourages hosting a student during Decision Davidson. During Decision Davidson 2002, the college hosted 200 students, and
there were 347 overnights over the course of three nights.

AQUATICS CAROLINA, INC.
LIFEGUARDS WANTED!
We offer top pay, great incentives, and flexible hours.
Call Kim for an appointment: 704-665-7544

It’s not too late. Write for News.
