How should the NCAA deal with allegations of academic fraud? We’re all familiar with the dumb-jock stereotype. Somewhere along the
line, athletes became associated with academic probation and ridiculously bad SAT scores. Even today, at schools like Davidson, where we
graduate an astounding 91 percent of our “jocks,” there are tutoring programs specifically designed for student-athletes. Indeed, the “academic support
unit” for athletes at the University of Oklahoma covers 31,000 square feet in the football stadium. These athletes are spoiled,
if you will, with classrooms, faculty on site, seven learning centers for writing and other skills, 215 computers, 138 tutors
on every course under the sun, specialists in learning disabilities, and advisors who help athletes pick majors and courses. Oklahoma
spends $1.2 million a year on the support unit, and, as such, the university expects athletes to utilize the service
and graduate—“on time,” which by today’s standards is within six years of initially enrolling.

But what may come as a shock to some, or simply the result of an overemphasis on athletics to others,
is that Oklahoma’s basketball team has a zero-percent graduation rate. That’s right—no one has graduated from that program in the
last five years. Recently, the idea that athletes can’t perform in the classroom has become a major issue for the
NCAA, and in the last two months alone, there have been three instances (St. Bonaventure, Georgia, and Fresno State) of
alleged academic fraud in men’s basketball. “There must be a base below which academic performance is unacceptable,” NCAA President Myles
Brand said last weekend at the Final Four in New Orleans. “Under no circumstances can it be acceptable not to
graduate any men’s basketball player in five years, which unfortunately has recently occurred at 36 Division I schools.”

Even as Brand spoke, an NCAA-sponsored committee was at work putting finishing touches on a potentially controversial package of reform
proposals, which would put teams like Oklahoma in jeopardy of being punished. In the future, teams with low academic success
rates (the measurements for which are currently being worked out) could face the loss of scholarships, or in extreme cases,
banishment from postseason competition. Teams with stellar academic records, on the other hand, could be rewarded with extra scholarships or
recruiting advantages. The proposal would apply to teams in all sports, but men’s basketball has been singled out for close
examination, as its 34 percent graduation rate nationally for Division I-A schools pales in comparison to the 59 percent rate
for all athletes and 60 percent for all students. ESPN.com reports that of the 65 teams that competed in the
2003 NCAA Tournament, 29 graduated no more than 33 percent of their players in the four years of recruiting classes
leading up to the 1995-96 class, the most recent one evaluated by the U.S. Department of Education. And—what some consider
a more controversial statistic—black players (26 percent graduation rate) are less likely than whites (49 percent) to finish their careers
with degrees, according to the study of NCAA graduation rates.

The framework of the aforementioned proposal will be finalized this spring, with the expectation that implementation will begin in August
2004. According to a certain NCAA document, the first aspect of the system to go into effect would be incentives
to programs with “exemplary” graduation rates, meaning schools like Davidson would be rewarded. Full implementation of the program will come
in the fall of 2006, when the NCAA can begin to keep teams out of postseason play. That leaves some
schools, like Oklahoma and Syracuse (25 percent), with three years to turn things around, and some coaches aren’t happy. “There’s
a myth out there that all these guys are just going to school, and leaving, and they end up unemployed
someplace in the gutter,” Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim said. “That’s not what happens. Every player who ever played at Syracuse
has got a job today. Every one.”

To me, this whole graduation issue has been a long time coming. Big-time colleges and universities have transformed into virtual
minor league systems for professional sports, and the term student-athlete has all but disappeared from the lexicon at too many
schools. Of course, we must also examine the student-athletes’ side, and many of them will tell you that they feel
more like employees than students. “You go from 9 in the morning, and I’m not even back in my room
until 10:30 or 11 at night,” Creighton senior Kyle Korver said at the West Regional. “It’s basically a full-time job.
And then there’s travel.”

Most NCAA officials agree with these student-athletes and admit that amateurism has taken a backseat to commercialism, especially at the
Final Four where fans are expected to pump some $100 million into the local economy. According to a recent edition
of Business Week, the NCAA is “the best little monopoly in America” because it has successfully suppressed financial competition in
college sports and its strict limitations on scholarships and payments to athletes have boosted the profitability of college sports programs.
But, the general public doesn’t see this nasty side, and most fans are only aware of the NCAA’s ability to
maintain what critics call the moral high ground. Interestingly, according to a recent Chicago Tribune article, the NCAA and its
Division I conferences are now working out the details of a plan to funnel $750 million to athletes over the
next 11 years. The bulk of the fund is a windfall from the $6 billion CBS is paying the NCAA
for exclusive broadcast and Internet rights to the Division I men’s basketball tournament through 2013, and the money will provide
financial assistance to all student-athletes for such items as clothing and school supplies.

Personally, paying collegiate athletes makes very little sense to me. After all, the money CBS and other institutions earn comes,
in part, from revenue generated by broadcasting collegiate games on national television. What 20-year-old doesn’t want to be seen bymillions
of viewers? That, combined with the opportunity to receive a quality education, should be compensation enough for these student-athletes.

Expectations higher with team losing only three seniors
By GEOFF FEHLING
Staff Writer

Spring may have just arrived, but the men’s soccer team already completed their spring season with a doubleheader last Saturday.
Ending with a final record of 2-2-2, the Wildcats are headed into training for the 2003-2004 season with much enthusiasm.

“This spring, like all spring seasons, is centered on player development and developing new leaders and chemistry,” said Davidson head
coach Matt Spear. “With fewer players on the spring squad, there is a great opportunity for the coaches to work
with each player and an expanded chance for the players to play in the matches.”

“The spring is also a time when we are working on improving all over the pitch,” commented Nick Hansel ’04,
“but emphasizing goal scoring.” Hansel rose to the challenge, scoring the only goal in Davidson’s first spring match against UNC-Asheville.
The win avenged last year’s tough loss and gave the needed momentum to begin the new season.

In the next game, the 'Cats matched up against Catawba but fell to a two-goal deficit in the first half.
Davidson then rallied to come back and tie with two goals from Hansel. With a 1-0-1 record, the Wildcats took
on the challenge of playing the Charlotte Eagles, part of the men’s A-league. The Eagles, members of the second-highest tier
of soccer in the US, controlled the ball the majority of the first half. Davidson could not equalize in the
second half but tallied one goal, making the final score 3-1. Despite the loss to the Eagles, it was a
good learning experience.

“The reason we play against a pro team is a fun challenge and learning experience,” said Spear. “We did some
good things, and we did some bad things, but I am convinced it will help us in the long run.
Once you stretch yourself, you never come back to the original shape.”

The team’s next challenge was against Southern Conference rival Appalachian State. The Mountaineers scored two goals in the first half
on spectacular plays. While Dan Ferriter ’05 scored a goal in the second half, the ’Cats could not manage to
pull out the win. The final score was 3-1.

“Losing to a conference foe is never a fun result,” acknowledged Spear. “But we picked up several positives from the
match. We controlled possession for large segments of the game. The ball movement in the back and middle thirds of
the game are much improved.”

As the season was more than halfway over, the team quickly shifted focus to its finale, a doubleheader against West
Virginia and University of Virginia. This was the last part of the spring season, and the Wildcats certainly ended it
on a good note. The West Virginia game got off to a good start with a goal from Keith Nicholson
’04. His goal proved crucial, as the second half was a defensive battle, resulting in a 1-0 Davidson victory.

Next, the Wildcats faced national powerhouse UVA in their second match of the day. The Cavaliers struck first with a
goal in the first half. Davidson quickly regrouped and countered with an equalizer by Preston Davis ’06 to make the
score even at half. Although the ’Cats showed determination in the second stanza, neither team could get another goal, and
the game ended in a 1-1 tie.

“Last weekend was by far the best we have played all season,” said David Sartorio ’06, “and ending on a
note like that makes me excited about next fall.” Sartorio’s excitement is warranted considering the team has only lost three
seniors to this year’s graduating class.

One of those seniors, four-year starter Soren Johnson, has already elevated his athletic career since he left the fields of
Richardson Stadium last fall. Johnson had an astounding tryout for the A-League Rochester Rhinos and was signed for next season.

“It’s important to know that Rochester is widely considered as the best franchise in the A-League,” said Spear, “both in
terms of winning, in producing MLS players, and in packing fans into the stadium. So it’s especially exciting for Soren
and Davidson soccer to join such an amazing organization.”

The spring season was also played without both captains for next fall, David Peoples ’04 and Justin Porter ’04, who
are both abroad this semester. Even with the loss of some scoring power, players like Hansel and Davis rose to
the challenge and produced much-needed offensive power. The entire defensive unit, anchored by Peoples, will return intact next fall. A
deep goalkeeping squad of Bart Creasman ’04, Jordan Hauser ’05, and Shihab Sugeir ’04 will mind the nets. The midfield
is also solid with standouts Sartorio, Davis, and Nicholson. Finally, forwards Hansel, Ferriter, and Jeff Davis ’06 will be on
the Wildcat attack.

Adding to the pool of talent for the fall are four incoming freshman recruits who will bring a lot of
scoring potential. The recruits hail from New York, California, Connecticut, and North Carolina.

“We are expanding recruits to the national level, instead of just the southeast region,” said Nicholson. “Many will have the
opportunity to see a lot of time, as was the case with this year’s freshmen, since we are a young
team.” All four recruits are offensive threats and will be good additions to the strong roster of young players.

Ultimately, the team looks forward to winning the SoCon tournament and getting an opportunity to play in the NCAA tournament.

“The experienced players we have returning and the talented recruits coming in mean we should be able to improve,” said
Hansel.
