10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cowie notches 200th victory
By Wilson McCrory
Staff Writer

The 2003 campaign has been a tough one for the volleyball squad, as the team has struggled mightily on the
road and been unable to close out numerous close matches throughout the year. The ‘Cats have played well against the
bottom-feeders of the Southern Conference, feasting on squads such as The Citadel, UNC Greensboro, and Wofford, but have faltered in
matches against teams with winning records. In fact, the Wildcats haven’t beaten a team with a winning record in over
two months, despite being close in numerous chances.

This weekend represented the chance to buck that dubious trend, as the Wildcats opened their final home stand of the
year against Southern Conference-leading Georgia Southern in search of head coach Tim Cowie’s 200th career win. The ’Cats made that
milestone victory a goal on Friday night and, according to Jenny Mills ’07, came into the match very excited about
the possible upset. That excitement was not translated onto the court, however, as the Wildcats fell behind quickly, 15-7, in
the opening game of the match. The ’Cats managed to fight back to within 19-18, but six defensive errors down
the stretch by Davidson resulted in a 30-21 loss.

“That first game really took us out of it,” noted Mills after the match. “We beat ourselves ... We know
that they’re a good team, but we forget that the match is the first to three games, and that one
game doesn’t signify the entire match.”

The Wildcats appeared to have turned the corner in the second game, when Davidson jumped to a 21-15 lead, but
were unable to hold onto that advantage yet again. Georgia Southern went on to win the game 30-27 on two
late kills and a block. The Eagles then held Davidson to a meager .089 attack percentage in the third game
to cruise to the 3-0 sweep. The loss was another example of missed opportunities for the Wildcats, as it highlighted
Davidson’s continued inability to make the necessary plays to win close matches.

“We can play and be competitive against some good teams,” stated Mills, “but when we begin to doubt ourselves, we
just can’t finish the match.”

In the second match of the weekend, the Wildcats looked to rebound against East Tennessee State, a team that defeated
the ’Cats earlier in the season. The opening three games were all one-sided, with Davidson winning the first and third
games 30-22 and 30-20 and ETSU taking the second 30-20. In the pivotal fourth game, the teams went back and
forth to create a 25-25 tie, but a late push by Davidson enabled the ‘Cats to pull away for the
30-27 game and match victory. The victory not only marked a bit of revenge for the Wildcats, but also registered
for Cowie his 200th career victory, albeit a day late.

“It was unfortunate that we couldn’t get his 200th win against Georgia Southern,” noted Mills, “but we were all proud
of him, and honored to be a part of that accomplishment.”

Cowie’s 200 wins span a career of over seven seasons at R.I.T., New York, and Davidson, where he has amassed
a .671 winning percentage.

To close out the weekend, Davidson played host to Chattanooga in the Wildcats’ final home match of the season. The
match was a defensive struggle throughout, as neither team managed an attack percentage above .200 on the afternoon. In each
of the first two games, Davidson looked to be in control late, as the ’Cats held 17-12 and 25-22 leads,
respectively. In each game, however, the Mocs rallied to pull out two 30-28 victories, effectively ending the day for the
’Cats. Davidson came alive in the third game to pull closer to the Mocs, but a 9-1 UTC rally to
open the fourth game would pace Chattanooga to a 30-24 win and the 3-1 victory.

The setback was just the latest in a line of many disappointing losses this season, and it epitomized the struggles
the Wildcats have experienced this season. As Mills said after the loss, “That match was a frustrating one for us.
[Chattanooga] came out favored, but we brought a lot of energy at the outset because it was Senior Night for
Nicole [Tonelli] and Tisha [Chapman] ... When Rachel [Gleed ’06] got injured, though, we just couldn’t adjust and pull through.”

After the 1-2 weekend at home, the Wildcats look to close out the season on a positive note this week
when they travel to...Furman and Wofford, two teams the ’Cats beat earlier in the season. Every Monday 1/2 Price Appetizers
(dine-in only) Every Tuesday 1/2 Price Wings Buffalo, Teriyaki, Barbeque (dine-in only) Every Wednesday Burger Madness All Burgers: $4.95 (dine-in
only) KARAOKE NIGHT EVERY THURSDAY 10 UNTIL CLOSING 18665 Harborside Dr. - (704) 896-9013 Exit 28 - Go W. on
Catawba to Harborside Dr to end SPORTS RESTAURANT

anyone, forwards, or centers, which is something really missed last year. Continuing with the impressive defense is fellow guard Puff
Summers. Throughout his three years, Summers has consistently been one of the hardest working players. His quickness, strength, and work
ethic will be key this year, and as teammate Matt McKillop ’06 remarked, “The toughness he brings to practice every
day makes our whole team better. You hate not having him on your team in practice because of his defensive
intensity, and you know he will never give less than 100 percent.” The remaining juniors are two of the big
men fighting it out for starting spot honors this season. Both 6’8” forwards, southpaw Conor Grace and co-captain Logan Kosmalski
“can dominate the front court in a variety of ways,” notes Mic.

November 12, 2003

the women’s team is undeniably their best all-around player. At 6’0”, Emily Callahan was one of just two sophomores in
the SoCon last year to earn all-conference honors. She had seven 20-plus outings and a career-high 33 points, just two
points off the Davidson single-game record. As teammate Courtney Laird ’04 states, “Emily is an incredible shooter. She can make
a shot with a hand in her face without even looking at the basket, and she also creates really well
off the dribble.”

Field hockey season ends abruptly
By BEN WHIGHAM
Staff Writer

Traveling to St. Louis for the Norpac Conference tournament, the top-seeded Davidson field hockey team suffered a season-ending first-round loss
to the Southwest Missouri Bears. Coming into the tournament with a 4-2 record against conference opponents, the ’Cats had high
hopes for their prospects; however, they were unable to crack the scoreboard in the first round and fell 1-0 against
Southwest Missouri. “We came out really strong and had a penalty corner early on,” said head coach Lisa Thompson. “We
had several shots off the post, but we couldn’t finish them.” The Bears managed a goal off the individual effort
of Abbey Rolfe ’05 at the 20-minute mark. Despite the otherwise solid defense of the ’Cats, this lone goal was
all the Bears needed. The scoreless ’Cats saw their season end at the final whistle.

In a consolation match the following morning, the discouraged ’Cats came out flat and fell to Pacific 3-0. The match
carried no significance as far as tournament play went and brought the ’Cats final record to 8-12. “We came out
flat,” said Thompson, “and weren’t able to connect with our passes.” Despite the disappointing conclusion to their season, the ’Cats
enjoyed plenty of recognition from their conference in a banquet last Wednesday evening. Indicative of the many first-time achievements the
squad accomplished, the Northern Pacific Field Hockey Conference recognized numerous members of Davidson’s field hockey squad for individual achievements. Sarah
Nolan ’05 picked up East-Division Defensive Player of the Year for her performance in goal this season. Nolan recorded 195
saves this season, which ranked third nationally. Christina Auer ’04 received the Sheryl Johnson Academic Award due to a combination
of her performance on the field and in the classroom. The award recognizes a single player from the Norpac for
their academic and athletic successes. “One of our biggest goals this season was getting respect in our conference,” said Auer.
“This was a big step up from last year.” Davidson also put two players onto the first-team all-Norpac squad. Captain
Kathleen Fenn ’04 and Liz Schoening ’05 both were honored as members of this select club. A defensive stopper, Fenn
managed two goals along with two assists to bolster her impressive defensive contributions to the team. Schoening was the ’Cats’
go-to girl this season on offense, leading the team in goals and assists. “This recognition for our accomplishments shows that
we earned respect from our conference,” said Thompson of the fulfillment of that preseason goal. While the ’Cats fell short
of their own expectations in the conference tournament, they did manage an impressive regular season. Davidson’s first top finish in
the Eastern Norpac division should satisfy players and coaches until they take the field next season. The ’Cats will host
the conference tournament in 2004.
