@ ALENDA LUX x DAVIDSON COLLEGE
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 2003

Prosecutors yet to decide on charges in goose killing
Students could face fines, service or jail
By Matt GARFIELD
Editor

The seven Davidson students charged with killing a goose on Feb. 7 could face fines as high as $25,000, community
service, or even jail time, according to public officials familiar with the case. Authorities have not yet decided whether the
students, affiliated with the Kappa Sigma fraternity, will be prosecuted on a state or federal level.

“Punishment is difficult to predict,” said Mecklenburg County Deputy District Attorney Bart Menser. “Everything depends on the prior record of
the defendant and any aggravating circumstances.”

One senior fraternity member and six freshmen pledges are charged with felony cruelty to animals and conspiracy to commit a
felony. They are accused of luring a goose with bread, then beating it to death with a golf club at
Roosevelt Wilson Park on Griffith St. around 2 p.m. on Friday, Feb. 7.

School administrators last week closed the Kappa Sigma chapter until fall of 2004. A hearing will be held next year
to determine whether the house can re-open. Students will continue to live in the two-man apartment connected to the house.
The chapter had already been suspended indefinitely by its international governing board, which will decide next month whether to revoke
its charter, said executive director Mitchell Wilson.

Chapter president Ben Skurek ’04 issued an apology on behalf of Kappa Sigma last week and pledged to build nature
trails and provide bird habitat information at area parks. “While we cannot change the isolated incident of last week, we
do have the power to respond to our colleagues and this community in the tradition of our college, this fraternity,
and our own sense of what is right and wrong,” wrote Skurek. House members declined to comment due to the
pending court case.

INSIDE THIS WEEK
News 1-4
Congressman John Lewis to visit College on Monday. Page 3.

Arts & Living
What songs might Dave Matthews play at his Belk Arena concert? Page 5.

Perspectives
Our columnists sound off on the goose incident. Page 8.

Sports
Men’s basketball prepares for games against Appalachian State and Charleston. Page 12.

Range of penalties varies
Conviction of felony cruelty to animals carries a penalty of three months of community service to 12 months of jail
time, depending on prior record. Prosecutors also could seek fines ranging from $150 to $25,000. Attorney Menser said the students
could apply for deferred prosecution, a special version of probation that ranges from six months to two years and often
includes community service.

“The structured sentencing law calls for a community punishment that does not include jail time. That can be probation, community
service, or many different types of conditions other than jail,” he said.

Federal attorneys were expected to decide last week whether to assume control of the case, but Town Police Detective Steve
Ingram said a decision hadn’t been announced by late Tuesday afternoon. The dead goose and the golf clubs remain in
possession of the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service.

Ingram said the advance planning that allegedly went into the incident could influence the level of punishment sought by either
state or federal attorneys. “What’s most troubling about the whole thing is the fact that these individuals actually lured the
animal out using bread. Had it just been an arbitrary thing where you’re just acting on impulse, society may not
see that as being as horrific. The courts consider the method of attack.”

The extensive media coverage devoted to the incident could also play a role in prosecutors’ decisions. “I would have to
say the case gets a little bit more special consideration. You’re operating in a glass house. Whatever decision you make
will be scrutinized,” said Ingram.

Incident captured media spotlight
The story captured national media attention, with several stories and columns appearing in The Charlotte Observer and other newspapers, and
local TV news reports appearing.For several days, an editorial cartoon on The Observer's editorial pages linked Davidson to the game
of “duck, duck, goose” as Clemson and Duke are linked to football and basketball, respectively.

See Kappa Sigma, page 4

Photo by Eron Earley-Thiele

Renovations on the Chambers Building are moving at an even faster pace than school officials expected. See story, page 2.

War in Iraq will take center stage tonight in Union debate

By AMEE PATEL
News Editor

In the midst of global anti-war protests and guarantees of national security from the Bush administration, Davidson students will hold
an open debate on the conflict with Iraq at 8 p.m. tonight in the Union Atrium. Both the College Republicans,
taking the pro-military action stance, and Students Against War in Iraq will present statements, followed by a discussion opened up
to the audience. Dr. Lou Ortmayer, Professor of Political Science, will moderate the debate.

Representatives from each political organization will lay out the basic principles of their positions on the conflict. “We plan to
focus on the illogic of the anti-war view,” said Travis Lee ’04, president of College Republicans. “We will present an
intelligent, well-supported, and confident argument why it is in the interests of the US, the world, and, most important, the
Iraqi people and the Middle East that we go to war in Iraq and remove Saddam Hussein.”

In contrast, Sean Brooks ’04, founder of Students Against War in Iraq, will focus on the insufficient evidence provided by
the Bush Administration. He said, “While Colin Powell has attempted to show Iraqi deception in the inspection process, no one
from the Administration has adequately explained how a war with Iraq will make the American people safer.”

Following their presentations, the microphones will be open to those in the audience wishing to voice their opinions, concerns, or
questions. Dr. Chris Alexander, director of Dean Rusk International Studies Program, sees the organization of the forum as a success
in itself. Calling the event a “microcosm of bipartisanship,” Alexander said, “To have a group of students representing diverse opinions
on this issue come together...is phenomenal.”

The idea began with the desire of Brooks and Lee to bring their groups together in a formal debate. Under
the guidance of the Dean Rusk Program, the students collaborated to format the rules and structure of a campus-wide debate.
In addition to differentiating various positions, see Debate, page 3

Tough economy forces College into reserves

College taps reserves, raises annual tuition

By BRANDON CARROLL
News Editor

Davidson will tap into its operating reserves next year to make ends meet. The Board of Trustees passed the budget
Friday afternoon amid “lots of conversation” from trustees concerned with the measure, President Bobby Vagt said. The budget calls for
$1,562,724 to be drawn from operating reserves to fill a two percent hole in the college’s expenditures. It is important
to distinguish the operating reserves from the endowment. Vice President for Business and Finance Robert Norfleet made this distinction while
outlining the college’s budget and emphasizing its priorities.

Impact of the Recession

According to Norfleet, the Chronicle for Higher Education is brimming with sob-stories of schools, including some of Davidson’s peer institutions,
that reveal a “systemic crisis for higher education that the recession created.” The economy has had two primary effects that
directly affect the college’s budget. One part of the problem is that when times become hard, the “small and loyal
donors [who] don’t give from wealth” may lose their income or certainty about their cash flow, and reduce their contributions.
While this has happened at many schools, Norfleet said, “Davidson has completely defied that phenomenon...It shows the extraordinary loyalty of
Davidson alumni.”

The other effect has not spared Davidson College, however. Lackluster stock market performance led to negative growth rates for the
endowment last year and this year, following average growth rates in its contribution to operations routinely around fourteen percent in
the late 1990s. These endowments contribute significant in- see Budget, page 4
