THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2003 13

Women find offense, pick up W at GSU
By PETER ALLISON
Sports Editor

Having been held scoreless for over 400 consecutive minutes, the second half of the game against Georgia Southern did not
look very promising for the women’s soccer team. Coming out of halftime deadlocked at zero-zero, the ’Cats dominated play, but
could not seem to finish their opportunities. Then, finally, in the 88th minute, captain Amy Leitch ’04 passed a beautiful
through-ball to Jenny Soldano ’06, who netted her first collegiate goal and the game-winner against the Eagles. The win snapped
a four-game losing streak for the 'Cats, giving the team some much-needed confidence and a conference victory that they needed
even more. That one goal may have been what Davidson was looking for in order to turn around their mediocre
season.

Last Friday, the ’Cats returned home to play conference powerhouse App. St. Although the game ended in a 0-0 tie,
Davidson dominated the rough game, holding a 17-7 shot advantage. In a game in which the refs called 43 fouls
and handed out 3 yellow cards, the ’Cats held their own throughout both overtimes, including in the second OT when
goalie Sarah Hobart ’05 snatched a crucial corner kick out of the air. Hobart went on to record her fifth
shutout of the season, needing only to save two shots on goal.

This past Sunday, Davidson traveled to Charleston to play the bottom feeder in the SoCon, The Citadel. Having been so
close on so many opportunities in the previous two games, the ’Cats came out firing, and, 23 minutes into the
match, Sara Huber ’04 found the back of the net on a timely rebound off a blocked shot by the
Bulldog goalkeeper. After that, the floodgates opened, and Davidson scored once more before the end of the half and three
times in the second. Jessica Lahre ’07 recorded her first collegiate points, scoring once and assisting on two other goals.
Over the previous three games, the ’Cats have gone 2-0-1, improving their conference record to 3-2-2. Now fully awake on
offense, the ’Cats will hope the stellar play continues, as Davidson has conference games coming up against Furman on Oct.
24 and Wofford on Oct. 26. Behind a solid defense and great goalie play from Hobart (three shutouts in the
past three games), now is the time for the ’Cats to make a late-season run and get ready for the
conference tournament.

Steven H. Eyler O.D.
Maggie M. Metwalli O.D.
704-547-1551
8316 Suite E. Medical Plaza Dr.
Charlotte/University Area

New EYECARE IN DAVIDSON.
UNIVERSITY EYE ASSOCIATES
Doctors of Optometry PA.
Kristin N. Richwine O.D.
We care about your eyes
- Comprehensive family eye care
- Treatment of eye disease & disorders
- Majority of insurance plans accepted
- LASIK surgery consultations
- Large selection of fashion eyewear
- Protective (safety) eyewear
- Saturday appointments available
704-896-9090
455 S. Main St, Ste 100 - Davidson
www.universityeyeod.com

Jenny Soldano ’06 netted her first career goal at Ga. Southern

Volleyball sings road blues
By WILSON McCRORY
Staff Writer

A disturbing trend for the volleyball team was again brought to glaring attention this past week, as the Wildcats were
swept by conference foes Georgia Southern, Appalachian State, and Western Carolina in successive matches. The ’Cats were unable to pull
out even a single game in their three-game road trip through the Southeast, as they were outscored a combined 9-0
in the three matches. More discouraging, perhaps, was that the three losses dropped the team to a combined 1-10 record
on the road this season, including an 0-6 mark in Southern Conference play.

The three-game swing began at Georgia Southern, with the Wildcats coming off a dominating home win over Wofford only two
days before. The ’Cats were unable to translate that momentum into another win, however, as they fell 30-23, 30-26, 30-23
to the SoCon foe. Latisha Chapman ’04 notched 15 kills in the match but finished with a sub-par .122 attack
percentage. Jenna Dykstra ’07 had another solid outing, reaching eight kills on an efficient .368 attack percentage. The Wildcats then
traveled to Boone, NC, to face North division-leading Appalachian State, looking to continue a...Five-game winning streak over the Mountaineers. Appalachian
State left little doubt that the streak would end by opening up a quick 18-9 cushion in game one, and
the Mountaineers went on to cruise to a 3-0 (30-25, 30-23, 30-22) win. Chapman tallied a match-high 20 kills, but
they were not enough to stop the Mountaineer runs of 9-0, 13-3, 6-1, and 6-1 that served to define the
contest. In the final match of the weekend against Western Carolina, the Wildcats were again outpaced in the first game,
and they were never able to recover against the Catamounts. The ’Cats were swept 3-0 (30-22, 30-21, 30-18), and the
offense was almost nonexistent in posting an anemic .085 attack percentage that included nearly as many errors as kills. For
the match, the Catamounts notched only five more kills than Davidson, but the team attack percentage was nearly 300 points
higher. Overall, it was a frustrating week for the team, as the three losses highlighted the road struggles that have
plagued the season. Fortunately for the ’Cats, the next seven contests will be held in the friendly confines of Belk
Arena, where Davidson is 9-5 on the season. That stretch begins with UNC Greensboro on Saturday at 5 p.m. and
culminates against Chattanooga on Saturday, November 8.

Runners finish strong at N.C. Intercollegiate Race
By Austin MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

It was a cool, crisp October morning this past Saturday as the men’s and women’s cross-country teams laced up their
spikes to race against some of the best colleges in the North Carolina Intercollegiate. Eastern Carolina University’s course was obviously
measured, and the Wildcats turned out superb performances in the last race before the Southern Conference Championships. The women were
the first to race, and they did not fail to impress as they finished third as a team, only one
agonizing point behind second-place Wake Forest, and only 12 points behind overall team champion Charlotte. Captain Laura Puckett ’04 was
pleased with the team’s effort: “Our training is coming to fruition now with great races. Everyone is showing great improvement.”
The women were led by Allie Martin ’06 and Kelly Fillnow ’05, who finished 8th and 13th, respectively. Fillnow took
early command of the race, seizing the lead during the first mile, but Martin’s strong third mile carried her to
a top-ten finish and fastest time of the year. Rounding out the scoring five for the Wildcats were Sally Stanhope
’05 in 23rd, Jenna Kruppa ’04 in 31st, and Laura Puckett ’04 in 55th.

The men’s race followed shortly thereafter, as the men measured themselves against some of the best teams in the state
(and even a few from other states). In Division I results, the men’s team finished fourth, behind North Carolina, High
Point, and Duke. They were led by co-captain Chris Schmader ’04, whose short, quick strides carried him to a team-best
34th-place finish. Following soon after was Ben Gaspar ’04, who had the race of the day for the Wildcats, surprising
everyone but himself as he jumped to the number two spot on the team with his 44th-place finish. Completing the
top four for Davidson were Jonathan Baker ’06 in 49th and Matt Rhodes ’07 in 65th. The race turned out
to be quite an exciting tune-up for the Conference Race, which will be held at Davidson on Saturday, November 1.
Both the men and women are excited to run the Conference meet on their own course, seeking home-course advantage with
the support of their Davidson fans. Men’s head coach Gary Andrew anticipates the SoCon Championships, saying, “With a little bit
of fine tuning, we’re going to be ready to rock the conference on November 1.”
