THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Women’s basketball preview 2003-04

Strong returning nucleus could turn ’Cats into contenders

Watts, women aim higher after surprising run to SoCon semifinals last year

By Wilson McCrory
Staff Writer

In the 2002-03 season, the women’s basketball team finished with a solid 15-15 record, the best in Coach Annette Watts’
tenure at Davidson. That mark represented an upward trend for the 'Cats, but it was the way the team finished
that highlighted the season. In fact, the Wildcats came within a few points of advancing to the Southern Conference Championship
last year, and in the process beat perennial power Western Carolina in the tournament quarterfinals.

This season, Davidson returns five seniors and four starters, including All-Conference selection Emily Callahan ’05, and boasts a deep and
talented roster at almost every position.

The Schedule

Nov. 22 at Michigan State
Comment: The Spartans made the NCAA tournament last year, and should provide a stiff test for the Wildcats in the
opener.

Nov. 23 at Temple/Florida International
Comment: Temple is coached by WNBA guard Dawn Staley, formerly of the Charlotte Sting, and Florida International advanced to the
NIT tournament last year.

Nov. 25 at Charlotte
Comment: Davidson travels to the cross-county rival looking to win its third straight in the series.

Nov. 28 at San Francisco
Nov. 29 at Lady Dons Tournament
Comment: Potential match-up with Kentucky Wildcats in second round.

Dec. 2 at Georgia Tech
Comment: Another NCAA tournament team from last year and lone ACC team on schedule this year.

Dec. 6 Wofford
Comment: Davidson’s SoCon opener, as well as the first game in Belk Arena after six road games to begin season.

Dec. 18 Winthrop
Dec. 20 at College of Charleston
Dec. 22 Western Carolina
Comment: ’Cats beat Western Carolina to advance to the semifinals of the SoCon tournament last year and will be looking
to unseat team predicted to finish third in the conference this year.

Jan. 3 Georgia Southern
Jan. 6 at Appalachian State
Jan. 10 East Tennessee State
Jan. 12 Chattanooga
Comment: The Mocs are again picked to finish at the top of the Southern Conference, and this game will serve
as a barometer for the 'Cats as they reach the halfway point of the season.

Jan. 14 Furman
Jan. 17 at Elon
Jan. 20 at UNC Greensboro
Jan. 24 College of Charleston
Jan. 27 at Western Carolina
Jan. 31 at Georgia Southern
Feb. 3 Appalachian State
Feb. 7 at East Tennessee State
Feb. 9 at Chattanooga
Feb. 14 Elon
Feb. 17 UNC Greensboro
Feb. 21 at Wofford

Forward Meghan Bryant ’04

As a result, optimism is high in the women’s program, and the team has set lofty goals of TLC: 20
wins, loyalty, championship. The Southern Conference media and coaches have not bought into the hype, however, as they have picked
the 'Cats to finish sixth and seventh, respectively, in the league. While the rankings merely “serve as a source of
motivation” for the 'Cats, according to Watts, they do pose the question of whether the optimism for the season is
misplaced.

Be optimistic about:

Experience/Leadership: This year, the Wildcats sport a line-up that Coach Watts calls “the deepest that I have ever had.” Davidson
returns four starters from last year, including senior captains Ashley Halsted and Courtney Laird, as well as Callahan, the 2003
scoring leader. “We have five seniors that bring it every day,” stated Watts. “They're very excited, and they have their
sights set on the goals we have made for ourselves.”

Defense: In Coach Watts’ tenure at Davidson, she has quickly established herself as a defensive specialist. When she arrived at
Davidson in 2001, the Wildcats gave up 79.2 points per game on the way to a 10-18 record. The 2003
squad, on the other hand, allowed a paltry 65.2 clip, establishing the defense as a definite strength of the team.
“We really want to turn up the heat on defense,” noted Watts, who believes that the team is “much more
aggressive on defense than offense.” In the Wildcats’ recent scrimmage versus Gardner Webb, for example, Davidson allowed only 26 points
for the entire game. While that kind of display cannot be expected on a regular basis, the performance shows that
the defense should be the backbone of the squad.

Schedule: While most Division I programs load up on easy wins before the start of conference play, Watts believes that
a stiff non-conference schedule is essential to the long-term success of a team. “Our schedule is incredibly tough this year,”
said Watts. “We open the season with an NCAA tournament team in Michigan State, and five of our seven opponents
have aGreat chance of advancing to the tournament this year... No matter what happens, I know that we'll be able
to bounce back for conference play. We may not see the benefits of the schedule until the second round of
the conference tournament, but it will pay off down the stretch.”

Guard Ashley Hallsted ’04

Worry about:

Offense: The Wildcats boast plenty of firepower on the offensive side, including a dominant backcourt tandem in Hallsted and Robyn
Flewelling '04, but Watts has been troubled by the passivity that the offense has displayed at times in the early
season. In the exhibition against Gardner-Webb, the Wildcats “settled for way too many threes and hardly worked the ball inside
at all.” Much of the early-season focus has been on refining the offense to include better post play, but Watts
believes that the 'Cats “have to be more aggressive and attack off of the dribble.” Still, she recognizes that Davidson
possesses a lot of skill on the perimeter, and she plans to create more “1-on-1 situations so that we can
free up some open threes for our players. You hate to live and die off of the three, but sometimes
you have to do it.”

Turnovers: Despite the experienced line-up, turnovers have continued to be a major concern for the Wildcats. “Turnovers have been a
problem for us in all three years that I have been here,” stressed Watts, “and improving that statistic alone can
win us a lot more games.” More distressing than the amount, however, is the way in which the squad has
turned the ball over. “I'd be fine if we were losing the ball every now and then in a full-court
game,” admitted Watts, “but we’re just making sloppy decisions in the half-court offense that lead to easy buckets for the
opposition.”

Underclassman production: While the team boasts a veteran roster, there are still seven freshmen and sophomores that could serve to
make the difference between another good season and a memorable one. “All young players start off on a roller-coaster,” believes
Watts, “but we're looking for that group to get off of it quickly. I expect players like Katie Hamilton (’07),
Brynn Kelly (’07), Janell Crayton (’06), and Katie Delk (’06) to really contribute this year and believe that the younger
players are the ones that can really push us to the top of the league.” With the Wildcats experiencing a
rash of injuries in the early season, it is even more important that the underclassmen get off to a strong
start despite their youth. On the other hand, the injuries will enable that group to gain much-needed experience before the
rigors of conference play.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2003

The Roster

Starters (tentative)

SG Ashley Hallsted Sr. 5-6
Comment: Known as the spark plug of the offense and is deadly from both the three-point arc and free throw
line. Led the SoCon with better than a 90% free throw percentage and hit a game-winning three-pointer against Western Carolina.

PG Robyn Flewelling Sr. 5-10
Comment: Moved from shooting guard to the point last year and responded well by averaging 3.3 assists per game. Known
as the defensive stopper on the perimeter and will have the nightly assignment of guarding the opposition’s best guard.

F Emily Callahan Jr. 6-0
Comment: Flourished in her sophomore effort last year, averaging a team-best 13.5 points per game and earning all-conference honors. Can
hit from outside or drive, as evidenced by her 47.5 field goal percentage last year. Will likely be the team’s
go-to scorer.

F/C Meghan Bryant Sr. 6-3
Comment: Bryant was a force during a break-out sophomore season, but her production fell off last year. Still, she ignited
Davidson with 17 points and 11 rebounds in the Western Carolina victory. Only 11 blocks shy of setting a new
school record.

F/C Courtney Laird Sr. 6-2
Comment: A dangerous outside shooter. Connected on a team-high 40.8% of her three-point shots last year but also boasts a
strong array of post moves. Led the team with 38 blocks last year.

Off the bench

G Lindsay Shade Sr. 5-5
Comment: First guard off the bench. Registered a 1.95-to-1 assist-to-turnover ratio as the back-up point guard last year, the best
mark in the SoCon.

G Joy Newsome Jr. 5-8
Comment: Injury will keep her out until late November, but her speed and athleticism are valuable.

F Janell Crayton Soph. 6-0
Comment: One of the best athletes on the team, and her defensive skills will be appreciated immediately.

F Katie Delk Soph. 6-2
Comment: Emerged at the end of last season and features great hands in the post.

G Amanda Hope Soph. 5-8
G Katie Hamilton Fr. 5-11
