12 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2003

Turnovers, scoring problems plague 2-4 men’s hoops

photo by Peter Roady
Logan Kosmalski ’05 elevates for a shot in the ’Cats’ home 83-70 win over Hampton.

By Matt Garfield
Editor

Six games into what has been a disappointing start to the men’s basketball season, this much is clear—someone besides Ian
Johnson and Brendan Winters needs to start scoring consistently. Both sophomores have played at an all-conference level, averaging 16 and
14 points per game, respectively. The problem is that no other players have emerged as dependable scoring threats.

Winters was nearly unstoppable during a second-half stretch against North Carolina, finishing with 24 points. He’s reached double-digits in all
but one game. Johnson carried the load against Georgetown, totaling 20 points on 9-of-12 shooting in one of his five
double-digit games.

“There’ve been flashes where (other) guys have been able to score,” said head coach Bob McKillop, citing Matt McKillop’s 18
points at Texas Tech and Logan Kosmalski’s 22 points against Hampton. “We just haven’t had enough consistency.”

Just as importantly, the Wildcats (2-4, 0-1) need to eliminate costly turnovers, by far the biggest factor in their four
losses. “Eliminate turnovers and we’re fine,” said McKillop. “Our halfcourt defense has been fine. Bad offense has led to bad
defense.”

Point guards Kenny Grant and Terrell Ivory have shown flashes of potential at times, but both need to cut down
on turnovers and get the Wildcats’ offense into a more consistent rhythm. “Steadier point guard play will certainly relieve us
of some of the anxiety,” said McKillop. “The point guard sets the tone. How that plays out will determine how
well we do this year. The experience factor is a big thing to reckon with.”

Here’s a look at how the year has unfolded:

‘Cats hoping for another close one at Duke

Erik Swanson
Staff Writer

Ian Johnson ’06 played Duke in his first game at the NCAA level. Not one to be intimidated by such
circumstances—first game, national television audience, top-10 opponent—Johnson exploded for 23 points and six rebounds in 34 minutes of play. He
was the second-leading scorer on the night for the Wildcats and one of only three Davidson players with a double-digit
point total.

Not to be lost in the stats is the Wildcats’ overall performance in their inaugural game of the 2002-03 season.
Trailing by only eight at halftime, they rallied to within a six-point deficit with a little over a minute remaining
before succumbing to the relentless pressure of the Blue Devil attack and losing 95-80.

The 2003 annual meeting between Duke and Davidson will take place Dec. 29 at 4 p.m. at Cameron Indoor Stadium.
“Duke is very talented at almost every position, but it’s still early in the season and they haven’t quite gelled
yet as a team,” said guard Matt McKillop ’06.

Duke, with four of five returning starters from its Sweet 16 team of a year ago, showed some signs of
vulnerability in an early loss to then-unranked Purdue. The team bounced back, however, with a dominating 22-point win over No.
6 Michigan State. With a 5-1 record, the Blue Devils are now the No. 5 team in the country.

The Wildcats will have to play at the top of their games to compete favorably against such a talented Duke
team. Currently holding a 2-4 record, the team has struggled in the early season to regain the chemistry from last
year’s team, which graduated three starters.

Davidson at Charlotte
Thursday, 8 p.m., Halton Arena

SCOUTING REPORT: As usual, Bobby Lutz’s 49ers boast plenty of athleticism and some dangerous outside shooters. Transfer Brendan Plavich hit
a school-record 10 three-pointers in the team’s upset over Syracuse. And senior guard Demon Brown (back for what seems like
his 8th year) is a deadly shooter. The 49ers will look to avenge last year’s 75-56 loss to the Wildcats
in Belk Arena, Davidson’s first win over its cross-county rival in six years.To maintain control of the Hornets’ Nest trophy,
Davidson will need to quiet the crowd early and avoid the costly turnovers that have led to too many easy
baskets, particularly in the Texas Tech and North Carolina games.

SGA BUS: As of Tuesday night, the SGA was planning to provide bus transportation to Halton Arena for $10, with
free tickets included. Contact Francois Trappey for more information. Take a left off Exit 18 and follow signs to UNCC
to get to Halton Arena.

The Wildcats have already played two Top-25 opponents with Duke as their third. It’s also their third and final national
television appearance. “If we can jump on them early, take care of the ball and out-rebound them, we can pull
off the upset,” reveals McKillop. Sounds simple, but the Wildcats will need another breakout performance like Johnson’s last year to
silence the Cameron Crazies on Dec. 29.

The season-opening blowout losses to Texas Tech and North Carolina don’t seem too bad in retrospect, because both teams are
far better than expected and should almost certainly make the NCAA Tournament. The obligatory win over Div. III Rhode Island
College was followed by what has easily been the most frustrating point of the year, a 75-69 loss to division
rival College of Charleston in a game the Wildcats led by 11 at halftime. The team rebounded with a home
win against Hampton, but followed that up with a double-digit loss on the road to Georgetown. And so with six
games left in the non-conference season, the Wildcats still have time for a turnaround, but it needs to happen soon.

Georgetown 71 Davidson 53
Turnover troubles once again plagued the Wildcats in a 71-53 loss to Georgetown (6-0) at the MCI Center on Saturday.
The team committed 26, resulting in 37 points off turnovers for the Hoyas. Johnson led the Wildcats with 20 points,
while Winters added 14. Kosmalski had 12 rebounds but finished with four fouls and no points. Georgetown’s Brandon Bowman led
his team’s scoring attack with 20 points. The Wildcats fell behind 10-0 and didn’t hit a basket until Johnson’s three-pointer
at the 13:43 mark.

Davidson 83 Hampton 70
The Wildcats used an offensive explosion early in the second half to earn their first win of the season against
a Div. I opponent. At halftime the score was 39-38, but Davidson’s 16-2 run to open the second half clinched
the victory. Four Wildcats recorded double-figures, with Kosmalski leading the way with a career-high 22 points. Winters had 18 points
while Johnson added 15. Grant had the best game of his Davidson career, netting 11 points, including 7-of-8 from the
free throw line, and dishing out six assists.

College of Charleston 75 Davidson 69
A scheduling quirk forced Davidson to open its SoCon schedule in December against Charleston in a match-up of two South
Division favorites. It was probably the Wildcats’ best performance of the season, but a few costly turnovers and a late
rally by the Cougars gave Charleston a 75-69 win and an early lead in the division race.

Photo by Peter Roady
Nick Booker ’05 drives against Rashad McCants during Davidson’s loss to UNC.

Ashley Hallsted ‘04
Women’s Basketball
Hometown: San Mateo, CA
Major: English
Hallsted had a great week, keeping the ’Cats close in a game against Georgia Tech and helping them crush Wofford
in their home opener, 79-61. Hallsted had at least 10 points, three rebounds, and three assists in each game. When
all was said and done, the women finished with 33 points, giving the ’Cats a good start to SoCon play.

The victory was largely due to the stellar play of Robyn Flewelling and Meghan Bryant. The seniors combined to go
an astonishing 12-of-13 from the floor while also pulling down nine rebounds and dishing out five assists. In its first
home game of the season, the women’s basketball team dominated Wofford in a decisive 79-61 win.
