8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

First Night Down: releasing freshmen into the wild

Confucius ask: If an inebriated 18-year-old falls on the court, does she make a noise?

Answer: The stumbling whipper-snapper will make a clanking sound as her new GAP capris are torn to shreds by the
shrapnel-like remains of discarded beer cans. For all you environmentalists out there (those not perusing the Libertas), here’s an interesting
way to dispose of the aluminum menace: Martha Stewart recently told her roommate ‘Spark Plug’ that beer cans make dandy
hummingbird feeders. (On a completely unrelated note, there was a catastrophic increase in hummingbird mating this year). Martha also says
license plates make festive placemats!

ALI FITZGERALD

First Night Down is the most honored of all Davidson traditions. It’s when 400 freshmen are released onto the Court
in a drunken diaspora. Although this article is already a bastion of authoritative journalism, it would help if I actually
went to ‘First Night Down’ freshman year. Alas, I was a very important person on the school’s tennis team and
was required to go to a tournament that weekend. I mean if I hadn’t gone, that bench could have reached
temperatures as low as 30°C! And without my aquatic prowess handling cups, well...it would’ve been ‘Water-Cooler Gate 2000.’ Whew, am
I glad that I spent the most raucous night of my Davidson career discussing backhand volleys at Chili’s. It’s just
a good thing I went out the next 475 consecutive nights to make up for it.

For those of you living underneath a rock (or down the hill), ‘First Night Down’ is the most honored of
all Davidson traditions. It’s when 400 freshmen are released onto the court in a drunken diaspora, after nearly four weeks
of captivity. It’s like taking a group of Tibetan monks to ‘Margarita Night’ with the ‘Busty Order of Swedish Nuns.’
You know they’ll just end up cloakless—shimmying on a table while being sandwiched by Inga and Hegrid. Then, they’ll probably
make that cool sand thingy using cashews at the bar, exclaiming, “Whoa man, why’d we ever destroy these?”

Of course, there’s always a chance (however negligible), that I’m wrong. Maybe this year’s freshies are more skilled at moderation
than their weaker ancestors. There could be a correlation between their astronomical SAT scores and a greater resistance to alcohol
(Note: apply for Dean Rusk Grant comparing Flemish beer funneling and test-taking skills). In summation, I think the answer is
clear: Departmental Keg Race! This way, the freshmen can see their fave professors battle it out Belushi-style, before they head
down to the court to lose some pesky brain cells.

PERSPECTIVES

Can liberals and conservatives ever just get along?

I was having a conversation with myself the other day about how much I hate liberals (yes, I talk to
myself). Amidst my seething hate I suddenly realized that well over half of my friends are left-wingers. So, I amended
my earlier thought, and began dwelling on how much I hate liberal ideology. Whenever I hear a liberal politician open
his mouth my head starts to scream and a throbbing begins to pound the back of my skull. Their snobby
attitude, elitist disdain for us “uneducated” conservatives who have yet to see the light makes me want to vomit all
over them. I then interrupted myself with another point: what if liberals feel the same way about conservative politicians? Hmmm,
that doesn’t exactly leave a lot of room for compromise and political discussion. Not many people can see through their
own bodily functions to the worthwhile ideas their ideological opposites believe. I know I can’t.

Wait, wait, I can already feel my left-wing comrades chuckle a bit under their breath. I am living proof of
what they thought all along: republican ideology is nothing more than knee-jerk reactions by the ignorant. Their liberal ideas, on
the other hand, spring from thought-out worldviews based on historical precedent and philosophy. I quickly slapped my imaginary liberal persona
for insulting me. Of course I have thought through my own ideology. I’ve read my share of philosophy and history.
I read books by authors not named Clancy or Limbaugh. I occasionally watch films that don’t revolve around large explosions.
I eat with a full set of silverware, not just a spork. And sometimes I even wash my clothes.

Anyways, with such ingrained distaste for each other’s views, how can American society pass this, well, this impasse?

rant from the right
MIKE GALDO

The hardcore believers on both ends of the political spectrum often cancel each other out. For every Ted Kennedy or
Al Sharpton there is a psycho separatist living in Idaho ranting conspiracy theories about the FBI trying to take his
land. But, do we really want the ill-informed, mushy middle of America to determine public policy? The independents may not
lead the United States down the path of destruction, but tough decisions are made by people with a vision, not
by the uber-important “undecided vote” politicians are always chasing.

This article does not contain a solution to bridge the intellectual gap between the left and the right. I don’t
know if open dialogue and discussion will solve anything. I could talk with Ralph Nader for hours, but, at the
end of the day we would still disagree. My only plan is to live abroad for a few months after
Bush wins in 2004. I have a feeling that the liberals will take to the streets to vent their frustration.
I just have one request. If looting and pillaging do occur, please, please don’t take my extended edition Lord of
the Rings DVD. I don’t know what I would do without it.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2003

The next step for ‘sub-free dorms: Caffeine?

With all dorms now smoke-free, marijuana still illegal, underage drinking for-bidden all over campus (cops in trees now?), sub-free dorms
are going after a new campus problem: Coke® addicts. Tammy Stephens, a first-year student from South Carolina, came up with
the idea after she was “shocked” to discover the “rampant” caffeine abuse on campus. “I don’t know, I guess I’m
just not used to the ease with which people ingest chemicals around here. The Union Cafe sells Starbuck’s for heaven’s
sake. I had to do something.” Following a particularly rough After-Midnight Breakfast, Tammy talked to her hall counselor, Beth. “I
just had to, you know? Seeing all those wide eyes and twitching fingers, I didn’t know if I could ever
go to the Alvarez Campus Center again.” “She was in tears, ‘How could people do that to themselves?’” she asked.
I told her I never understood it, that I can’t stand seeing those people do that. That’s when we realized
we had the ability to exclude ourselves from that which makes us uncomfortable and we don’t want to deal with.”
After a hall meeting and a quick count of hands, it was decided. 4th Watts, once merely Substance-Free, became the
first Caffeine-Free Hall at Davidson College. The Residence Life Office, always eager to please, made 4th Watts’s decision known to
other Substance-Free hall counselors. The idea caught on. In interviews, a common rationale for the decision followed that of first-year
student, Jackson Hill: “I mean, we know some people at places like Summit are just drinking decaf or mochas, but
there’s still those people taking it black, one after another—it’s just really sad.” Other Substance-Free students were less understanding: “Listen,
we’re just not gonna take it anymore, if y’all wanna get all ‘wired’ and ‘hyper’ on your coffee—fine, it’s your
life to mess up, we just don’t wanna see it on our hall.” A few of the residents were skeptical
at first, hesitant to live both a Caffeine and Substance-free life. Tammy’s horror stories of what the “others” could be
like, however, quickly changed their minds. “Fine, you’re having a good time drinking your Coca-Cola and your Mountain Dew, but
maybe we just don’t need that kinda stuff to have a good time, ok?” One Substance-Free Hall Counselor explained how
she plans to enforce the new rule: “You know, if one of my freshmen were to come back ‘under the
influence’ one night, I wouldn’t be angry—I’d just be happy to know that she’s ok. But you can bet we’d
have a serious talk in the morning.”

Are Cupps the real reason for Davidson’s climb in the rankings? The 2003 fall semester has already proved momentous for
the sacred history of Davidson. Without any doubt, notable happenings such as the record number of applicants for the class
of 2007, the completed new wing of Chambers, or even the change in hours at Commons have all been lost
on the inception of the infamous “Cats Cupp.” For most Davidson students, mention of the Cupp requires no explanation. But
for outsiders, or the select few at Davidson who have somehow managed to maintain their ignorance of the hottest new
item on campus, the Cats Cupp is a large-sized, black plastic mug of sorts which can be picked up for
free by any student with the intention of cutting down on the usage of paper, plastic, or Styrofoam cups in
the Union Cafe. The Cupp is a great idea and will surely alleviate excessive cup wastage on campus. Unfortunately, few
ideas are flawless and this one is no exception, as many Cuppers have begun to discover. To begin, “Cupp” is
not a misspelling, despite the fact that my spell-checker is overheating in trying to correct this incessant error.

ZACH WILLIAMS

The Cupp is a great idea. Unfortunately, few ideas are flawless and this one is no exception, as many Cuppers
have begun to discover. Perhaps it might have first appeared a clever acronym (Cupp is short for “Can’t Use Paper,
Plastic, or Styrofoam”). However, some students have expressed consternation at the inherent connotation of “Can’t.” With all the honor code
rules we have to follow, it seems the Cupp creators could have at least been considerate enough to insert a
“Don’t” rather than deprive students of free will. Of course, the genius of the acronym would be lost since the
rules say that we’d have to call them Cats “Dupps” since “Don’t” starts with a D, not to mention the
fact that the English language has already been stretched to the limits both with the insertion of an extra “P”
in the word cup and by the strangely misplaced apostrophe on the possessive “Cats.” While the obvious environmental gains in
the Cupps program seem to override these grammar infractions, the subtle advantages, while perhaps less selfless, truly deem the Cupp
idea nothing short of brilliant. As posted in the Union, one of the “Top Four” reasons to use a Cupp,
and I quote verbatim, reads “Other colleges do it, and they’re more highly ranked (Williams College).” Ouch. Williams College is
also known to pay for environmentally friendly kegs at registered parties and I don’t see Davidson jumping on that bandwagon
anytime soon. I guess now we really know why Davidson is #7 this year. Alumni giving? Lower admittance rate? Higher
median SAT? No. It had to be the Cupp. Even if all these benefits fail to sell you, the Union
gives you a few cents off if you use the Cupp as a beverage holder (that’s about how much the
paper cups cost so, no, the Union isn’t actually cutting you a deal). Cupp ubiquity is no longer a vision,
it’s a reality. Even the stubborn ones will soon succumb to the Cupp frenzy. If you aren’t a Cupper now,
you’ll be a Cupper tomorrow, guaranteed.
