By Matt Banpyk
Staff Writer

“Adaptation,” the newest oddity from “Being John Malkovich” director Spike Jonze and screenwriter Charlie Kaufman, is a film about flowers,
obsession, love, evolution, insecurity, and writer’s block. Tackling so many and seemingly unrelated themes in one film may seem like
an impossible task, but thanks to one of the sharpest and cleverest scripts of any recent movie, “Adaptation” makes it
look easy. It also features amazing performances by great actors like Nicholas Cage, Meryl Streep, and Chris Cooper.

Similar to “Malkovich,” one of the best films of 1999, “Adaptation” is strange and unlike few movies seen before. However,
its uncharacteristically conventional finale prevents the movie from being thoroughly impressive, all of its positive elements withstanding.

“Adaptation” revolves around one of the least glamorous parts of filmmaking, the scriptwriting process. Nicholas Cage plays Charlie Kaufman, a
screenwriter who is drafted to adapt a book called “The Orchid Thief” by Susan Orlean (Meryl Streep), the true story
of eccentric Florida orchid hunter John Laroche. However, Kaufman finds it nearly impossible to give narrative structure to the sprawling,
rambling “New Yorker”-style piece. Kaufman, Orlean, and Laroche are all real people, and Kaufman did try to adapt “The Orchid
Thief” into a film, and did suffer from writer’s block in that attempt. From there the reality of the story
ends.

The movie portrays Kaufman as fat, balding, shy, and self-loathing, ignored on the set of his movie “Malkovich” and with
the nasty habit of sweating heavily during social interactions. The real Charlie Kaufman is supposedly nothing like this screen variant,
so perhaps this pathetic character is meant to represent the impotence the real Kaufman felt because of his writer’s block.
Cage also plays Charlie’s twin brother Donald, who is optimistic and oblivious to...

Clooney’s ‘Confessions’ stylish and entertaining, if not memorable
By Derek Lou
Arts & Living Editor

“Confessions of a Dangerous Mind” is an adaptation of Chuck Barris’ journals. Barris, in addition to creating the Dating Game,
the Newlywed Game, and hosting the Gong Show, claims to have been an assassin for the CIA. Whether or not
Barris actually killed matters only to Barris and his supposed victims. Sam Rockwell stars as Barris in a role that
requires a fair amount of range and a lot of butt shots. He’s one of those actors that we sort
of recognize, but can’t quite place. I’ll save you the trouble of going to imdb.com: he was the bad guy
in “Charlie’s Angels,” Wild Bill in “The Green Mile” and “Head Thug” in “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.”

In a sense “Confessions” is a bio-pic, showing us how Barris broke into the television industry, how he became famous,
how he freelanced for the CIA. There is a story, character development and all that good stuff. But this film,
down to the smallest detail, is about style. Director George Clooney, who produced and stars in the film, uses every
trick in the book: photography, filters, costumes, sets (particularly sets), music, voiceovers, humor. You name it, he uses it to
create his film’s unique feel and tone.

Clooney, Julia Roberts, and Drew Barrymore give exciting supporting performances. Clooney plays Jim Byrd, Barris’ supposed CIA contact. Roberts is
a kinky, double (triple?) agent for the CIA. Their characters — just as much as the cinematography and sets —
add to the feel of the film. As for Barrymore’s Penny, I suppose her character is meant to add to
the film’s humanity, to show that in spite of the cruel, capitalist world of...Television and the deviousness of the CIA,
there are still good people out there. Good people for bad ones like Barris. People that Barris can have sex
with, cheat on, bring flowers to, make up with, cheat on again, and then marry and live happily ever after.
And she’s cute! But seriously, superfluous style and subtle misogyny aside, “Confessions of a Dangerous Mind” is one of the
more entertaining movies I’ve seen recently. It’s got some funny moments and an attractive cast, and it’s also interesting to
see what that guy from “E.R.” can do behind the Miramax camera. It also goes one step further and gives
us a few things to think about; just a few, but that’s still more than “LOTR: The Two Towers” can
say. Charlie Kaufman wrote “Confessions,” his third film to hit theaters this past year. It’s certainly a solid movie. I'd
definitely recommend it, but it’s a step down from “Adaptation,” Kaufman’s other film currently in wide release. When the most
memorable moment in a movie is a cameo by Mr. Aniston and the former Mrs. Affleck, you know you’ve seen
better movies.

Criticism, unlike Charlie. Donald’s hilariously clichéd and blatantly “Hollywood” attempts at screenwriting are a major source of humor for the
film and a constant source of frustration for Charlie. Cage fully realizes Kaufman in all his insecure, paranoid glory, and
remains fully convincing even when acting with himself as the other brother Kaufman. Chris Cooper also gives a memorable performance
as Laroche, the toothless but strangely charming redneck horticulturist who moves through obsessions like he was changing shirts. His lines
are among the funniest of many in this film. The comedy in “Adaptation” is based on clever interactions between characters
that demonstrate layered character development, instead of resorting to gross-out gags and cheap one-liners like many of today’s comedies.

Unfortunately, the conclusion of “Adaptation” isn’t as satisfying as the film as a whole. It falls back on the same
chases and deus ex machinas that the movie seemed to criticize earlier with the humorous portrayal of Donald’s script. “Adaptation”
should have focused itself more as a comedy, where its strengths lie, because some of the dramatic elements at the
end of the film drown in sappy sentimentality. Despite the bad taste that the conclusion left in my mouth, all
the things I liked about “Adaptation” are enough to make me look forward to the next wonderfully weird effort by
Jonze and Kaufman.

Written By: Charlie Kaufman
Starring: Nicholas Cage, Meryl Streep, Chris Cooper
Running Time: 114 minutes
Rating: 3 out of 4.

What Do You Think?
We continue to interrogate the student body about art and life on campus and beyond. This week’s question: What did
you think of last week’s RENT production?

“I liked it, because it was a good performance, an interesting story, and it presented an unfamiliar lifestyle. It’s immediate
in that it makes you think about how you examine your own life.”
— Aravind Dileepan ’03

“It had a lot of charisma, but it didn’t have a lot of meat to it. The performance wasn’t fun
enough to justify sacrificing realism, and the way they treated AIDS seemed kind of trite.”
— Kevin Bell ’05

“I’ve wanted to see it since it came out, and it far surpassed my expectations. The singing was powerful, especially
Angel’s.”
— Courtney Hamilton ’05

“I was not wowed. I thought the music sounded thrown together, and the band was unenthusiastic. The whole thing didn’t
seem polished enough.”
— Anna Lauzon ’04
