The Beanpot: a Boston tradition unlike any other

Let’s be serious for a second. This is the South: the sky snows and the mercury dips below freezing once
in a blue moon, and conditions aren’t exactly ideal for ice hockey. Modern technology has created rinks in such a
moderate climate, however, and teams like the Carolina Hurricanes (read: forever the Hartford Whalers) have actually reached the Stanley Cup
Finals. But back when our parents were kids it was nearly impossible to play hockey anywhere below the Mason-Dixon line.
You see, in the '50s and '60s rinks were “indoors,” but only in the crudest sense of the word. Chain
link fences covered with bright-blue tarps were considered walls in those days, and if the weather outside reached 40 degrees
the ice would begin to steam and a thick fog would fill the arena, making it virtually impossible to see
other skaters, never mind play a game.

And so old-time hockey, the type of play epitomized by Eddie Shore and the Hanson brothers, thrived in areas like
New England and The Great Lakes, where youth leagues are still so popular that it is not uncommon for games
to be played at 5 a.m. on Saturday mornings or 9 p.m. on Christmas Eve. From this intense passion for
hockey, there emerged a college tournament in the great city of Boston called the Beanpot. What began in 1952 as
the New England Invitational Hockey Tournament, an event that drew fewer than 800 fans, has grown into an annual spectacle
that now sells out the 17,565-seat Fleet Center.

For anyone not from the Boston area, the Beanpot is almost impossible to explain. Although, the format is very simple:
on the first and second Monday of February each year, Boston’s four major hockey schools—Boston College, Boston University, Harvard, and
Northeastern—battle it out for possession of the city’s most coveted piece of hardware. First-round pairings are on a three-year rotating
basis; so, BC might play Harvard one year, but then will play Northeastern and BU the following two tournaments before
playing Harvard again. This is how the tournament has been run for 51 years without complaint, with Northeastern winning four
Beanpots (all in the '80s), Harvard 10, BC 12, and BU 25, including eight of the past nine.

On the second Monday in February, one could, in theory, spend from 5 p.m. when the consolation game begins, until
11 p.m. when the awards ceremony is complete, basking in hockey heaven. This is exactly what three of my buddies
and I did two nights ago. Sitting up in section 317, row 7, seats 4-7, we watched Harvard knock off
Northeastern and Boston University (aka Beanpot University) upset Boston College 3-2 behind the strong play of Terrier goalie Sean Fields,
who earned tournament MVP honors.

An interesting addition to this year’s edition of the Beanpot occurred during the first intermission of the final, when mascots
from BC and BU faced off at center ice for an intense game of Beirut—no word yet on what exactly
was in the cups. Bands from all four schools provide the evening’s musical entertainment, with this year’s award for best
performance going to Northeastern for bringing along its cheerleader squad, which stood in the front row and waved pom-poms and
cheered “Go Huskies” for three hours. Students flock by the thousands, and the number of arrests is usually on par
with shots on goal. BC may have the “Super Fans,” as the school’s cheering section is called, but BU has
this guy called Sasquatch, who runs up and down the aisles with his shirt off, letting his carpet of chest
hair hang out and scare most women and children in the building. All this adds up to an atmosphere that,
in all my experience, is unmatched in college sports.

And so, while it is unfortunate that college hockey does not exist in these parts, it is some consolation to
know there is a professional team up in Raleigh that can compete with the best of them on ice. Go
Whalers.

Wrestling drops two matches
By Bossy KENNER AND BRENT McCormick
Staff Writers

The Davidson Wrestling squad took on Duquesne University last Friday night at Belk Arena and notched victories for three freshmen.
Patrick Coman and Henry Blue earned their 17th and 12th wins, respectively, via decision in the first two matches. Matt
Leonard then tallied his team-leading 18th win after the Dukes forfeited the 141-pound weight class. Unfortunately, those are the only
points the 'Cats would rack up for the rest of the competition. Two Wildcat losses by way of decision, one
pin, and four forfeited matches gave Duquesne the win, 37-12.

Davidson’s weekend was not over, however, as they met Gardner-Webb on the road for a series of exciting matches. Coman
barely missed an opportunity to even himself with Leonard for the team lead in wins, when he lost a decision
to 125-pound Josh Pniewski, 4-2. Blue came out on top for the second time of the weekend, this time through
a 12-4 major decision. The upperclassmen contributed with two stellar performances as well. Adam Sperling ’04 lost 5-3 in another
close match, while Grant Doornboos ’03 came back from behind to pin his opponent, John Cofer. Despite the excitement, forfeits
and a couple of close losses doomed the hard-fighting 'Cats to a 42-10 loss. Davidson will compete away against Campbell
on Feb. 15 for the last match before their home finale, against VMI on Feb. 16.

By Perry Lewis
Staff Writer

After one of the most successful fall golf seasons in recent memory, the Davidson golfers are ready to hit the
links this spring with a successful showing. The team had a very successful fall season, winning...The Sea Trail Intercollegiate and
posting a top ten finish in the Pirate Fall Invitational. The players hope the success from the fall season will
carry over to the more competitive spring competitions.

“I think we will show a great deal of improvement this spring, because we were really showing signs of life
last fall,” Jon Kropski ’04 said.

The team welcomes P.J. Martin ’04 back to the team this semester after studying abroad in Australia last fall. “P.J.
is a really strong golfer, and he will be a great help to our team this spring,” Kropski said.

After such a successful fall, the team has set high standards for themselves this spring. “Obviously our goal is to
place as high as possible and to improve from last year,” Martin said. Last year, the Wildcats placed tenth in
the Southern Conference. They plan to improve drastically this year.

“We really want to finish better than tenth in the Southern Conference,” Martin said. “We will definitely improve in the
conference and try to be one of the top three or four teams this season,” captain Ben Friedell ’03 added.

The golf team is very young, consisting of just one senior and three freshmen. The team still expects to have
a strong showing this season. “The freshmen are really good and have a new perspective that will help us win
tournaments,” Kropski said.

The successful fall season only helped the young team. “I think the successful spring really gave a lot of confidence
to the freshmen and everyone else on the team. We can take these positives into the spring,” Martin said.

The Wildcats will also gain more experience by playing a very difficult schedule. The Wildcats face great golf schools such
as Georgia Southern, Wofford, and East Carolina. “We play some really strong teams this spring, but that will only make
us better,” Friedell said.

The golfers have also set individual goals for the spring season. “I expect to consistently play well and finish in
the top-10. I want to always give myself a chance to win,” Friedell said. “We want to go out and
prove that the fall season was not a fluke. We want to go out and show that Davidson is a
top-tier golf program,” he said.

The Davidson linksters' first tournament is Feb. 17-18 at the Spring Kick-Off Classic in Charleston, S.C. where they will play
Charleston Southern.

Men’s tennis suffers first loss to No. 6 South Carolina
By WEBSTER HARRISON
Staff Writer

Although the Davidson men’s tennis team fell to 20th ranked South Carolina, 6-1, on Sunday afternoon at the Knoblach Tennis
Center, the Cats played the Gamecocks close and almost pulled out two more points.

In doubles, all three teams came out slow and got behind early in their matches. Unable to come back from
these slow starts, the Wildcats lost the doubles point. Rob Haywood ’04 and Donald Miles ’05 lost 8-5 at the
number one doubles spot, while Rob Gould ’04 and Jonathan Britt ’04 lost at the No. 2 doubles position, 8-4.
Geoffrey Mullen ’03 and Brian Stonestreet ’04 played well in their doubles match but fell 8-2. According to Mullen, “We
missed some easy opportunities to go up early, and by missing those, we got ourselves in a hole. Although we
lost the match 6-1, we gained confidence in ourselves and in the team from this loss.”

Singles, however, was a different story. All six matches were relatively close with two Davidson players splitting sets with their
Gamecock opponents. Haywood lost a close battle with Seth Rose at the first singles position after winning the first set
7-5. Rose took the second set in a tiebreaker (6), and then won the third set 7-5. At No. 2
singles, Miles suffered an agonizingly close loss to Angelo Niculescu, 7-6, 6-3.

Stonestreet provided the highlight of the afternoon for the team. He won 6-4, 6-3 over Marcus Westman, gaining Davidson’s only
point. His arsenal of serves and groundstrokes was too much for Westman to handle, and Stonestreet walked off the court
victorious. Continuing his undefeated streak, he has now recorded three straight wins.

At No. 4, Carl Wermee of South Carolina defeated Britt 6-2, 6-4, and at No. 5, Geraldo Knorr defeated Mullen
6-2, 7-5. Russ Burns ’05 played at the number six position, splitting sets with Gamecock Ben Atkinson before falling 10-4
in the third.

Although the Wildcats lost the match, they showed that they could play with nationally ranked opponents. With a couple of
lucky breaks or seized opportunities, the Cats might have pulled off the upset. On Thursday, February 13 at 2 p.m.,
the Wildcats will take on Gardner-Webb as they attempt to start a new winning streak.

Winters, from page 12

of a college basketball player. His father played at South Carolina and was an NBA all-star, and his uncle played
at Miami of Ohio. You could say basketball runs in the family. “My dad basically taught me everything I know,”
he explains. “People say that I remind them of him when I play, and that’s because I learned everything in
my game from him.” He has obviously been taught well, which is something that should continue to help the Davidson
basketball program for the rest of his years on the court. He predicts good things to come for the Wildcats.

“I think the program is going to keep getting better,” he says. “It has been on the way up ever
since Coach McKillop got here, and with the group of freshmen and red-shirted players that we have it should keep
getting better and better.” Winters has done it all this year, from scoring to rebounding to filling in for a
star.
