CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

9/23 Grounds
Little
Larceny of a Bicycle
Unknown person(s) removed an unlocked and unregistered green Mongoose Sycamore bicycle from the area behind Little without permission from the owner. Estimated value of the bicycle is $200.

9/21 Patterson Court
Damage to Property
Unknown person(s) willfully damaged the ignition of a golf cart located on Patterson Court while the driver was at a party. An unknown object was jammed in the ignition causing damage. Damage is estimated at $200.

9/28 Residence Hall
Aid to the Ill
A student was transported to Lake Norman Medical Center as a result of mixing medication and alcohol.

9/27 Patterson Court
Underage Possession of Alcohol
A prospective student was observed carrying a beer in public. The prospective student-athlete was turned over to his parents.

9/28 Residence Hall
Damage to Property
An unknown female entered a female’s room and urinated on the floor while the complainant was in bed. The female subject proceeded to get in bed with the complainant, and then with the complainant’s roommate.

9/28 Laundry Parking Lot
Damage to Property/Intimidation
Unknown person(s) willfully wrote the letters “KKK” on a wall and sidewalk near the laundry building. The crime is still under investigation.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety.

Cable, from page 1
provides service to the Davidson area, to acquire new wiring, and workers will soon begin installing it underground. The process could take several weeks or months to complete, but it’s still the most immediate solution to the problem, Marsicano said. “It will take us a while to do, but at least there is light at the end of the tunnel,” she said. “I’m confident this makes the cable less vulnerable.”

The school hasn’t been satisfied with Adelphia, which declared bankruptcy last year following a corporate scandal similar to that of Enron. The company’s customer service has declined dramatically since then, Marsicano said. RLO is exploring whether to hire another cable provider that will offer more reliable service, or to abandon cable altogether and move to satellite-provided TV. For now though, students can only hope the underground cables will cut down on the number of outages.

Seniors on Sunday, urging them to contact Marsicano about the outages, were glad to hear of the new solution. “I wanted to prod someone into telling us what was going on, to make sure it was understood that we’re concerned about this,” he said. “It goes to show that both sides should remain open—the College shouldn’t hesitate to say what’s going on, and the students shouldn’t hesitate to ask.”

The school suspended Lindsay’s e-mail account for three days because he broke the rule prohibiting mass e-mails. But Lindsay said he knew about the rule and wasn’t upset about the suspension—only satisfied that he received a prompt explanation from Marsicano and that the problem is being addressed. “Too often we’re a little quick to damn the administration,” he said. “This time, we can admit they got it right.”

Marsicano said she sympathizes with Lindsay and other students who miss their favorite TV shows and sports games whenever the cable is out.

But what does the term ‘minority’ mean?
By Ros Hewrick
Staff Writer

After a disappointing year in terms of minority student enrollment, the College reports that numbers for the class of 2007 have risen sharply. Associate Dean of Students Ernest Jeffries said that this year’s freshman class boasts “60 ethnic minority students,” as compared to the 29 in the enrolling class of 2006. Dean of Admissions Nancy Cable reported that applications from African American, Hispanic American, Asian American, and Native American students reached record high numbers this year. Numbers of enrollments from these groups were also unusually high, with 29 African Americans, 12 Asian Americans, 21 Hispanic Americans, and 1 Native American joining the class of 2007.

“Admissions worked really hard in trying to raise those numbers, to target those students,” said Jeffries, who served on a multicultural recruitment committee, with the goal of developing personal contact between prospective minority students and those already on campus. “We came up with strategies [to recruit more minority students], and made sure that when these students came to campus they’d be touched by the students already here,” said Jeffries. “The key is that it is a community effort in moving in that direction.”

Admissions defines the term “minority” as ethnic minority students; African American, Hispanic American, Asian American, and so on. At some point, they might consider international students in that number. Jeffries added, “You don’t hear me saying ‘minority students.’ I refer to ‘ethnic minorities’ or ‘students of color.’” Cable said that, when asked a question regarding minority students, “I turn it back on the question-asker and ask...”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

them to define ‘minority.’ We define ‘minority’ as generally underrepresented populations in the student community. They can be ethnic minorities, students from various religious traditions, even students interested in the hard sciences. Those are all minorities at Davidson.”

Committee works to improve micelles

In order to cultivate this diverse community environment, the admissions office enlists the help of various students, alumni, and faculty members. These individuals seek to reach out to members of the applicant pool who might bring a more diverse experience to the College. The group, composed of six faculty members and Cable, formerly read each application, but in light of the recent spike in applications, now reads a random 20 percent grouping. Ortmayer described the committee’s tasks as “creating an interesting and diverse student class and looking out for the constituent interests of the College.” He described some of the committee’s “special contacts,” certain targeted communities that might yield more diverse applicant pools. Recently, Rudy Jackson of the Education Department worked with a diversely populated school outside of Washington, DC. Following his interaction with this community, 5 of the school’s top 12 graduates applied to Davidson.

“For minorities, you’ve got to go a few steps further and show them what it is that Davidson can offer them,” said Ortmayer, noting that Davidson’s southern location and small-town atmosphere could be intimidating factors for ethnic minorities from urban communities. Indian American student Sean Sonni ’06 agrees that his experience with the definition of “minority” is “usually in terms of ethnicity; you categorize based on what you can see.” He believes that the school’s reputation as a mostly-white school hinders a significant rise in minority population. “If the school keeps doing what it’s doing, it will eventually become diverse, but not in my time here,” he said.

As the admissions office and its committees begin to recruit and assemble the Class of 2008, Davidson's diversity remains a question constantly on the minds of students and faculty. Sonni said the benefit of a community like Davidson’s lies in its overall friendly nature and the ability of its students to cross racial lines in forming these relationships. “You start to open your mind as you meet people,” said Sonni, “and this idea of ‘minority’ just falls away.”

SGA candidates’ posters called offensive by some

By Leslie Hempson, Staff Writer

The debate between freedom of expression and respect stemming from music in the fitness center has extended to SGA senator campaigns. Freshmen running in this week’s SGA elections have covered the walls of residence hall buildings with campaign fliers, some of which students consider offensive. Although many of the fliers display little more than a photograph of the candidate, a few picture scantily clad celebrities like Tyra Banks or Britney Spears and numerous others exhibit sexually suggestive messages. Some students believe that candidates should think more carefully about what they include on their signs. While candidates have a right to free speech, some students say they have an obligation to refrain from expressing themselves in a fashion. Martha Shott ’06 said, “I do think that some type of standard needs to be set in terms of what is appropriate and what is just getting attention. I think it’s common courtesy.”

According to Elections Chair Jordan Gratrix ’04, candidates are issued only two standards: they may not post fliers in academic buildings and may spend no more than fifteen dollars on their campaign. “We don’t regulate content just because it’s assumed that people will follow the school standards of decency.”

Students complained in recent weeks when school administrators posted a sign in the Union workout room urging them to monitor the content and volume of their music. Some viewed the sign as an infringement upon their right to free speech and claimed that they could express themselves however they saw fit. Candidates mentioned similar concerns about campaign fliers. Candidate Jenny Bromley ’07 said, “I don’t think that there should be any rules limiting what the signs can include unless it is blatantly derogatory. If the candidates want to portray themselves with questionable posters, I’d think these decisions would be reflected in the elections. No one will want to vote for someone who is posting signs that they find offensive. They would not want to be represented by that.”

Gratrix agreed, noting that since the fliers are not permitted in academic buildings, mainly students see them. Faculty at the college rarely visit areas where the signs are posted. Andy Agcaoili ’07, another candidate for Freshman Senator, claimed that candidates have to create unusual fliers in order to generate publicity. He said, “I really think that now, you kind of have to catch people’s eyes. You know, just be different. It’s kind of a hard line to cross between getting people’s attention and offending them.”