By Jerr Davis
Staff Writer

The baseball team proved that they could beat any team in the league after sweeping the second-place Citadel Bulldogs this weekend.

The sweep over the Citadel was a first for the ’Cats in 16 years.

After taking three games this weekend, the ’Cats currently stand at eighth in the conference.

If the season were to end today, the team would earn the final playoff spot and a weekend in Charleston, S.C.

On Friday, in the ’Cats’ 6-4 win, Jay Heafner ’06 drove in the last three runs, topping off a tremendous comeback started in the bottom of the fourth.

The ’Cats mustered three runs in the fourth, highlighted by an RBI single by Michael Muniz ’05 and a sacrifice fly by Taylor Shoop ’06.

In the bottom of the sixth with two outs, Heafner singled home Sam Navarro ’05 and Muniz to put the ’Cats up 5-4. Later in the eighth inning, Heafner again singled home Muniz to cap off the day with two singles and three RBIs.

“Jay has great demeanor,” acknowledged Coach Dick Cooke. “He has played a lot of baseball this season, and that is shown through his timely hitting.”

Muniz finished with a single, a double, and an RBI. He also crossed home plate twice.

Andy Carter ’05 pitched seven innings for his second win of the season, allowing six hits and four runs while striking out six.

Brian Akin ’04 found his way to the mound in the eighth, shutting out the Citadel for the last two innings, securing his second save of the year.

Saturday’s game saw starting pitcher Derrick Wolpert ’03 gain his first conference win of the season. Wolpert kept the Citadel scoreless for eight innings while allowing only three batters to reach base.

“Derrick definitely had one of his best games on Saturday,” stated Coach Cooke. “He was very consistent and Alex (Entrekin ’06) did a great job catching Derrick. We kept Derrick right around his pitch count which was impressive seeing that he threw for eight-plus innings.”

Wolpert struck out eight batters, walked two, and allowed one earned run. Once again, Akin left the bullpen in the ninth and terminated the Bulldogs' hopes of a comeback.

Navarro had a big day at the plate, driving in all three of Davidson’s runs. He had three hits, including two doubles. Left-fielder Andrew Musashe ’05 went two for two on the day with a stolen base and two runs scored.

In the final game of the series, hits came from everywhere in the ’Cats starting lineup. Every starter managed at least one hit, totaling eleven in the game.

The lucky seventh inning seemed the right time for the ’Cats to put the Bulldogs behind them. The team scored five runs in the seventh partly thanks to six errors committed by the Citadel.

Erskine Wells ’06, Navarro, Muniz, Heafner, and Entrekin all drove in runs to put the ’Cats up 7-5.

The game ended at 8-6 after an RBI double by Muniz, who finished with three hits and two RBIs.

Suddenly surging baseball squad earns first sweep of Citadel since 1987

Photo by Matt Whited
Senior Derrick Wolpert helped Davidson sweep the Citadel this past weekend.

Starter Matt Hood ’03 pitched six and one-third innings, allowing five earned runs. Matt Dellinger ’04, who entered the game in the sixth, earned the win while keeping the Bulldogs scoreless for the remainder of the game.

“I was very pleased with the weekend,” said Cooke. “We played inning by inning, got hits when needed, and took advantage of the Citadel’s mistakes. Plus, we had great weather and a nice crowd.”

With the three wins, the ’Cats record is 13-17 overall and 8-12 in Southern Conference play. The conference standings have Furman one spot ahead of Davidson with a 9-9 record. East Tennessee State trails Davidson for the eighth and final playoff spot with a 6-11 record.

Two crucial series that remain on the ’Cats’ schedule will be at East Tennessee State on April 25-27 and at home against Furman on May 2-4.

Up next for the ’Cats is Duke at home on Wednesday at 7 p.m. and at Wake Forest on Thursday at 2:30 p.m.

Baseball’s Upcoming Schedule
Wednesday Duke 7 p.m.
Thursday at Wake Forest 2:30 p.m.
Wednesday Charlotte 7 p.m.
April 23 at South Carolina 7 p.m.
April 25-27 at ETSU
May 2-4 Furman

Loren Seaton ’03
Lacrosse
Hometown: Moorestown, N.J.
Major: Psychology

Seaton recorded six goals and one assist on Tuesday as the lacrosse team earned its first win of the 2003 season. A four-year starter, Seaton helped the squad break a 24-game losing streak by beating Virginia Tech.

Women’s Tennis at Conference
Baseball at Wake Forest
Track and Field at Conference
Golf at Conference
Lacrosse at Northwestern
Lacrosse at Notre Dame
Baseball vs. Charlotte
Baseball at South Carolina

(through Saturday) 2:30 p.m.
(through Saturday)
(through Sunday) 4 p.m.
4 p.m.
7 p.m.
7 p.m.