$5 buys a good time at local brewery

What can you buy with five dollars? Seriously. Our flopping economy has decreased the value of a dollar. Five dollars
barely can afford a union meal, roughly two pizza slices at Palermos, a beer and a half at the Brickhouse,
or a movie rental at Blockbusters. That’s just sad. An economic tragedy for the college student; and isn’t college supposed
to be about the alcoholic freebies and the student discounts?

So imagine, for a moment, the personal elation and bewilderment that I experienced when my roommate awakened me by saying,
“Cannon! Do you want to take a brewery tour and get, like, a six-pack of beer for just five bucks?”
Honey, I jumped out of bed and was ready to go.

The Carolina Beer Brewery is a microbrewery in Mooresville. It is known for the production and distribution of Carolina Blonde,
Carolina Light, Charleston Light, Charleston Wheat, Charleston Brown, Cottonwood Brown, Cottonwood Pumpkin Spiced Ale, Margarita Ice, and India Pale Ale.
The brewery’s beers travel to both Carolinas, Tennessee, Kentucky, and Virginia.

But this brewery is something of a local enigma. It is sheltered and distinct from the clear, blase-tasting beers that
are consumed by the masses. The air is filled with the smells of twenty different grains and spices, and the
employees are content with their refreshing autonomy.

The brewery opens to the public on Saturdays from 12 p.m. until 2 p.m. It has a cozy bar that
offers unlimited tastings, great music, and hearty conversation. Between sampling (and stumbling), there are tours (many of which are led
by Davidson’s Charlie Hunter ’04) that provide an explanation of the in-depth process that is required for the singularly unique
beers. The brewery is also open on this Friday night (7:30 p.m. on Sept. 26) for a showing of “The
Matrix” on a 15-foot giant screen. Admission is free.

So. To refer to my original question, five dollars spent at the Carolina Beer Brewery affords a tour, an unlimited
sampling of beers, a six-pack of truly good beer, and a pint glass. For those under 21: follow the law.
Everyone else: Take I-77 north to Exit 36 and turn right on Hwy. 150 at the top of the ramp.
Take Hwy. 150 to Hwy. 115 and turn left. Turn right at the first stoplight, Mazeppa Rd, and the Brewery
will be about 1 mile down on the left at 110 Barley Park Lane.

The brewery is clean and cozy.

Cosby, from page 1

Cosby took the stage at 8:15 p.m., opening his dialogue with a tribute to the late Fred Rogers, just as
he did in accepting a lifetime achievement award during Sunday night’s Emmy Awards broadcast. He also paid homage to U.S.
soldiers who died in Iraq, pausing for two minutes as “Ave Maria” played over the loudspeakers. Cosby spent the rest
of the show recounting memories of his own childhood and poking fun at young people’s behavior, particularly college students.

“Before you can go after your dreams, you’ve got to wake up,” he said. “Sleeping is the easy part.”

The Davidsonian asked African American History Professor Dan Aldridge and four students to share their impressions of the performance.

Dr. Dan Aldridge:
I found the show to be quite enjoyable. Like Mark Twain, Cosby aspires to do more than make you laugh—his
humor is also meant to convey deeper observations about life. In his own way, Cosby is quite a traditionalist—he supports
hard work, self-reliance, and respect for authority. He is an important cultural figure since he is...

WOULD YOU LIKE TO SPEND THE SPRING 2004 SEMESTER IN NEW YORK CITY?Photo by Peter Roady on Wednesday, SEPTEMBER 24,
2003

Bill Cosby is one of the first generation of African American stand-up comedians to break through and cross over to
a broader audience. It is also apparent that Cosby can make his blackness an element of his character without holding
blackness up to ridicule or creating a cartoonish African American “hip hop” identity, as so many of the “Def Comedy
Jam” generation of black comedians do.
Vincent Benjamin ‘04

With his unique blend of social commentary and sidesplitting humor, Cosby reminded everyone how funny life can be. From wet
dreams to binge drinking, Cosby talked about it all in a way that only he can. While the diverse crowd
of children, students, parents, and grandparents was impressive, the beaming smiles at the end of the performance were even more
powerful. Before saying goodbye, Cosby said, “You’ll never know how fun honesty is until you have tried it.” Thanks to
Liz Smith and the Union Board, Cosby was able to show us first-hand how fun honesty can be.
Ali Fitzgerald ‘04

Bill Cosby never graces the cover of National Enquirer looking bleary-eyed and hugging a Taiwanese snake charmer named “Ling-Ling.” He
never had a wild rendezvous with Rudy in a vat of Jello-pudding pops. And “Fat Albert” was never addicted to
airplane glue (that we know of). That’s because “The Cos” is a genuinely nice guy. He’s an educated person who
uses his celebrity for more than just “Endangered Bee Pollen Phone-A-Thons.” He is the kind of man that wears V-neck
sweaters and dedicates his performance to a fellow-sweater wearer (Mr. Rogers). With facial contortions matching a “freshperson’s” after his first
cabbage casserole at Commons, he painted the audience a flawless picture of familial relations, gender differences and—ahem—college life. Part motivational
speaker and part comic genius, I thought his performance was pretty freaking neat. Sure he lectured us a little—“Grandpappy-style,” but
the universal truths he revealed were well worth it (Disclaimer: my grandfather was named “Strunk Hill” and thought linear equations
were the height of humor). I found Mr. Cosby so inspiring that I almost wanted to buy headgear, hike up
my pants and get a “Heath Huxtable 4-Eva” tattoo. Almost.
Joe Taylor ‘06

I can hardly believe that I wasted $25 and 90 minutes of my life at Bill Cosby’s performance on Tuesday
evening. First, Mr. Cosby had no previous knowledge of Davidson whatsoever. Rather than respecting our institution and doing some research,
Cosby just slapped on a sweatshirt, perched himself on stage with a big childish grin, and exploited the same college
stereotypes that he tried desperately to ridicule. Cosby’s generic routine accentuated his lack of knowledge about Davidson and his assumption
that our school is comparable to a community college. Next time, Cosby should take his own advice and “know his
stuff.”

Second, Mr. Cosby randomly interspersed anecdotal commentary about morality and life itself. Why should Bill Cosby refer to war, death,
and rape—before, during and after a rant about puberty? A lack of transitional material caused his banter to become even
more inappropriate. I understand that he wanted to pay tribute to Mr. Rogers, but the way in which he did
was both unnecessary and cliché.

Third, Cosby’s material was completely predictable and unintelligible. Rather than creating a novel presentation, he just exploited the same old
jokes about the same old subjects. Moreover, Cosby’s delivery of the material was equally disappointing. How can an audience laugh
at his poor sense of timing and his two facial expressions? Despite the riotous laughter from adoring fans, I found
Cosby’s performance to be banal and pedestrian. I want my $25; I want those two hours back.
