DAVIDSON COLLEGE

The Davidsonian

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @ WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2003

First Class U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC

VOLUME 95, NUMBER 5

STRIKING A NERVE

Racist graffiti on a cement wall behind Belk (right) and on a walkway in front of the laundry prompted five
juniors joined by hundreds of students to make a statement against racism.

‘SYMBOL OF HATE’

Vandals could face hate crime charges

By SARAH-GRACE WESLEY
Staff Writer

An incident of racism and vandalism has members of the Davidson community outraged. The letters “KKK” were spray-painted on both
a wall next to the Belk Computer Lab and on a brick sidewalk outside the laundry facility sometime late last
Saturday night. Students have since turned over the bricks and washed the graffiti off the wall.

Janeen Bryant ’04 described the vandalism as the newest “symbol of hate.”

Lt. Jim Lyon, Assistant Director of Public Safety said, “We’re conducting an investigation right now, and it’s still pending.” Lyon
said the crime has the potential to tarnish the College’s reputation. “We’re going to have to report this as a
hate crime,” he said, “and that’s not something that looks good for Davidson.”

In a mass email to the student body, Tom Shandley, Dean of Students, encouraged students to come forward with any
information regarding the incident, which “has caused a great deal of concern, disappointment, and anger.”

This incident of vandalism is not the first of its kind.

see Graffiti, page 3

RLO: Underground lines will ease cable TV problems

End of static?

Plant workers take action after latest outage

By MATT GARFIELD
Editor

Some creative thinking by the Physical Plant may put an end to the cable problems that have caused TVs across
campus to go fuzzy several times already this semester.

The problem is pretty simple, as RLO Director Leslie Marsicano explained in an email to students on Monday afternoon. When
crews installed the cables 12 years ago, they only planted them a few inches below the ground in most areas.

The trucks and bulldozers doing construction work on Patterson Court have cut the cables three or four times already this
fall, and landscapers aerating the lawn probably caused last weekend’s outage. But Marsicano says it’s been a recurring problem for
several years.

That’s where Physical Plant Director David Holthouser comes in. He figured out that the cables could be buried underground—in the
same pipes that contain the fiber-optic wiring that connects the campus computer network. Then they wouldn’t be so vulnerable to
breaks.

Holthouser worked with Adelphia, the cable company that

see Cable, page 2

IN DEPTH

How the mp3 crackdown will affect students and administrators

By CAROLINE K. HAUSER

Chief defends police as scrutiny mounts

Walker: Some officers have been too aggressive

By BLEVINS SHELNUTT
Staff Writer

Davidson College Police Chief Fountain Walker recently characterized his enforcement policies as being “consistent.” Albeit enforcement this semester has indisputably
become more stringent, several discrepancies in police procedure still appear to exist. This has led some students to question whether
officers even know what their guidelines are, let alone if their policies are reliable.

When asked to explain how his policies were“Consistent,” Walker said that the only time an officer should interact with a
student is if the officer observes a blatant violation, such as an underage student carrying a beer across campus, for
which he or she should then issue an alcohol citation. The Davidson police officers have not regularly implemented this standard
of enforcement. Brent McCormick ’06 said, “One student I know was merely sleeping in the lounge at about three in
the morning and was not drunk, yet he received an alcohol citation simply because he had been drinking at some
point that day. This type of enforcement is unnecessary and useless. The student was not being harmful or destructive.” An
incident two weeks ago at the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity house also illustrates this contradictory behavior. In one night, two
police officers came in and gave completely conflicting orders regarding alcohol. Walker explained these inconsistencies by attributing them to the
recent transition of leadership within the Davidson police force. He conceded that some officers have lately been too aggressive in
their procedure, but explained that they are still acclimating themselves with his policies; not only the students, but also the
officers must learn Walker’s style of policing. Walker emphasized that the goal of the police is not to get anyone
in trouble but to maintain students’ safety. Walker described the increased presence of officers at parties as an attempt to
develop a healthy rapport between students and public safety. He added that undercover officers will not be used to “spy”
on Davidson students, but rather to help.

“See Enforcement, page 4.”

“Consequences,” warns John Casey, Executive Director of Information Technology. “The rules have changed.” Those changes come on the heels of
261 lawsuits filed early last month by the Recording Industry Association of America. Almost eight times that many subpoenas were
filed to obtain user information of file sharers. Essentially, the RIAA has picked out “major offenders”—defined on the RIAA website
as users “who have been illegally distributing substantial amounts (averaging more than 1,000 copyrighted music files each) of copyrighted music
on peer-to-peer networks”—subpoenaed Internet service providers for the users’ names. Users identified in last month’s wave of litigation range from
a 12-year-old girl to a 66-year-old woman with plenty of college students in between.

“See File sharing, page 3.”

SPORTS: Men’s soccer falls to Charlotte, 3-1. Lucy Long goes fishing for fun. Homecoming match-up vs Dayton previewed.

SPORTS, PAGE 11.
