RICHARD GUYER
Staff Columnist

As we might have expected, the last words of President Bush’s speech to the Economic Club of Chicago barely had fallen from his tongue when John Edwards appeared on CNN to decry it as another conspiracy of wealthy Republicans and big businesses. However, it appears Senator Edwards and his friends in the Democratic Party forgot to check who actually pays taxes. The fact of the matter is that any tax cut plan which amounts to anything at all will be tilted towards the more affluent segments of society, because the rich are the people who pay all of the taxes. According to the IRS, in the year 2000 the top one percent of wage-earners — who made only 20.81 percent of taxable income — paid 37.42 percent of all taxes. The bottom 50 percent of wage earners paid only 3.81 percent of taxes. In fact, many people do not pay taxes at all, and folks in the bottom 20 percent actually receive money from the government. So to call the plan an “unfair” tax cut for the rich is decidedly misleading; in fact, what would be truly unfair would be to cut taxes without providing any relief to the wealthy.

Furthermore, although they do stand to gain the most, the wealthy are certainly not the only people who will benefit from the President’s plan. According to the White House, nearly 2.5 million people in North Carolina alone will have lower tax bills next year under the plan — however, only 3.6 million returns were filed in the state in 2001. The President’s proposal that the corporate dividends tax be repealed has also come under heavy fire. The United States is currently the only industrialized nation to double-tax corporate incomes, thus giving firms heavy incentive not to pay dividends to stockholders. This has several negative effects both on the securities markets and on the economy as a whole. One detrimental effect of the dividend tax is that it leads firms to favor debt finance (such as bond issuances) over equity finance. Chip Dillon, a research analyst at Citigroup’s Salomon Smith Barney, says that the present tax structure “lead[s] corporations to borrow too much and, frankly, avoid paying out earnings in the form of ‘highly taxed’ dividends.” This trend towards excessive borrowing almost certainly helped to create debt-hiding scandals such as those at Enron and WorldCom.

If Senator Edwards wants to be President, he might want to be sure he has all the information he needs before going on CNN to attack a popular incumbent. Besides, if President Bush sticks to his pro-growth economic agenda, the American people will have little reason to vote against him in 2004. Full steam ahead, Dubya!

RICARDO AMPUDIA
Staff Columnist

Many aspects pertaining to President Bush’s economic proposal are unclear. How certain is the White House that the average household will benefit from the proposed tax cuts? How confident are we that Bush’s tax cuts will boost the economy? Will this “boost” represent an improvement in the conditions of most Americans in the long run? Are we able to afford such tax cuts considering the current political and economic outlook, both domestically and internationally?

The only thing that remains clear in Bush’s tax policy is that it will accentuate class differences across the country. While it is true that a great number of families receive taxable dividends, it is more than clear that the elimination of these taxes will benefit the wealthy and the large, dividend-paying corporations. This, on the other hand, brings up the following question: if Bush were interested in boosting the economy and creating more jobs, why does he not focus on cutting taxes on small businesses rather than these dividend-paying corporations? Is Bush truly concerned with productivity and availability of jobs or is he using times of patriotism and national unity to pass populist proposals that have in mind the well-being of only a small minority?

Some argue that benefiting the wealthy with tax cuts will be beneficial for all because these individuals tend to spend more. Of course, the grounds for such a defense are still not clear: a middle-class worker will end up spending those tax cut dollars as well; and what little money he does not spend, he will save, which would benefit businesses and productivity through the capital market.

Furthermore, how is Bush so certain that these cuts will boost the economy enough considering the large deficits that it will bring about? This country is currently on the verge of falling into war with Iraq for a second time, and several economic aides to the Administration have expressed concern over the projected $300 billion in deficits (three percent of GDP) that await us in the coming year. But, more importantly, will the majority of Americans truly benefit from this in the long run? A $500 check here and there may be welcomed by most families, but what about the projected deficits? Will this $500 check make up for the possibility of having an insolvent social security system? Will these $500 compensate for the possibility of having to cut down on spending for schools and other public programs?

It seems to me that with Bush’s economic plan nothing is left for the majority of Americans but to have faith in what many conservative economists prophesize through their policies: if you make every effort to keep the wealthy happy, all of us will be better off. Let’s hope it is true.

Reality shows are the stonewashed jeans, M.C. Hammer albums and Chia Pets of our incomparably nosy generation. They’re the dirty little secret that every enlightened student of the world snickers at so hard they shatter their inhaler. Yes, reality shows have dethroned Springer and his sex-changing, mullet-sporting gang as the new “whipping boy” of pseudo-intellectual banter. Example: “Oh,I really do hate that tripe. I would much rather watch a good History Channel special exploring the various indigenous twigs used in creating Greco-Roman toilet paper. But, funnily enough, it’s these same people (the ones whose knickers are in a loftily academic bunch) who go home and curl up to some artery-clogging KFC and an extra raunchy episode of Anna Nicole. Of course, being the scholarly giant that I am, I wouldn’t deign to watch the aforementioned “reality shows,” as they might put a dent in the smooth-running vehicle that is my cerebrum...uh-huh. It took a lot of counseling, but I am now ready to admit my borderline obsession with “The Real World” and my grotesque fascination with “The Bachelor.”

Ali Fitzgerald ’04

So I want to see Kelly Osbourne expose her thong in a drunken rage, or Simon Cowell destroy someone’s peace of mind with one quintessentially British cut down—sue me. Actually, if you did decide to sue me, we could always make a litigation-live appearance on one of the thousands of fine “Judge Judy” takeoffs. As I was doing the thorough research required of me to write this article (I strapped myself to my futon using only dental floss and forced myself to watch over 17 hours of “A Makeover Story”), I mused about what type of reality television Davidson would produce if it were asked to join in on all the trashy fun. I think it would be one of those long-winded, hour-long gossipy deals where students competed at procrastinating and procuring carrels, with the weakest link voted off by a bikini-wearing library staff.

Of course, this incredible, epic-like show would be narrated by a totem-carrying, headdress-ed omnipresent Bobby Vagt. To sum up all my nonsensical ramblings, I love reality shows because they are vacant, for the reason that they offer anti-intellectual stimulation, and can numb an all-too-taxed Davidson psyche. So, to all those doubting Anna Nicole’s intentions, or Puck’s sincerity, I say just sit back and enjoy the showmanship. Because sometimes, you need a dose of something just vacuous enough to make you forget the medieval-type torture chamber that is the 24-hour room.

Self-selection: A Davidson tradition

Last semester’s post-First Night Down edition of the Davidsonian contained a group of diary-like entries from freshmen. Some found the event over-hyped (it is), but self-selection is another animal altogether. Being that this year marks my last Self-Selection weekend, and that I’m a “New Member Educator,” I thought a running commentary on my last self-selection weekend might be interesting. And please forgive me if I omit certain things. Age has already begun to affect my memory. Here goes.

Friday: Woke up around noon. Proceeded to eat a nutritious brunch consisting of sausage biscuits and ginger ale while watching dating shows. I’d like to know where they find people to go on these shows. Even some of Seinfeld’s more ridiculous creations can’t compare with these freaks—further proof that truth is stranger than fiction.

1:30: I make two related observations. The first is that I am still in my pajamas. The second is that not having class on Friday is a tradition I should have started in my first year.

2:00: Still haven’t moved from the couch when two of my roommates stroll in and ask if I want to go to the liquor store with them. I hate to move at this point, but I can’t resist.

2:30: We arrive at the store with $80 to spend and no clue what to buy—what a great feeling. It might be as close as a 22-year-old can get to the anticipation he felt on Christmas Eve 17 years ago. I can’t remember exactly, but it’s close.

3:15: We leave the store with enough sauce to put an elephant in a coma. Clearly, this is going to be a good night.

4:00: Shower time, although I wonder if it’s necessary. As one of my roommates pointed out, Self-Selection is the one night you can go out and not worry about how you look because you’re going to get dirty at some point. But still, no one likes to smell bad. Sleeping all morning and lying around all afternoon produces a surprisingly potent B.O. Go figure.

5:00: Nothing much left to do until 7:00 when the pledges arrive at the house to begin the festivities. With time to kill I decide to have a beer or six with dinner.

6:30: Now that I am fed and hydrated it’s time to prepare for the arrival of our meathead pledges. Clearly, this is going to be a good night.

7:00-9:30: Around the world begins. As pledgemaster, I am a group leader. The power (or something else) is extremely intoxicating.

9:30: We arrive at the house so the pledges can prepare for the traditional running through the eating houses. I’ve never been to the running of the bulls in Pamplona, but it can’t be as disturbing as this. Supposedly I have some semblance of authority over these guys, but have you ever tried to control a group of 20 inebriated freshman males? It’s impossible. Davidson has a better chance of signing LeBron James to a basketball scholarship than I do of controlling these kids right now.

Saturday: I won’t bore you with the details of the rest of the night. Things start to get fuzzy around midnight anyway (old age can be hell), but I woke up this morning with scratches and bruises that I can’t really explain. Clearly, it was a good night. But then, that’s the beauty of self-selection weekend. It’s unexplainable and uniquely Davidson. If you don’t believe me, then try explaining the phenomenon to one of your friends at another school. Assuming, of course, that you remember it.