The Davidsonian

First Class
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC

@ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2003

VOLUME 95, NUMBER 2

Royal Shakespeare Company to return in 2005

College currently negotiating four-year, four-production deal

By SARAH ROBINSON
Staff Writer

“All the world's a stage, and all the men and women merely players.”

Shakespeare’s “As You Like It” cites the interaction of life and theater. For Davidson, students and faculty will get the
opportunity to once again host the Royal Shakespeare Company, starting in spring 2005.

RSC, which is based out of Stratford-upon-Avon, first came to Davidson in February 2002. Then, the company performed “The Merchant
of Venice” for the grand opening and dedication of Duke Family Performance Hall.

The new agreement brings the company to Davidson for four years. During the first and third years, the company will
feature full productions with master classes, much like their previous visit. During the second and fourth years, RSC educational personnel
will work with Davidson faculty to tie together themes from Shakespearean plays to different classes in various departments.

Michael Boyd, artistic director for the RSC, wants to visit Davidson in December to work out specific details of the
contract and educational plans for the four years.

Actors in the Royal Shakespeare Company jumping for joy during their spring 2002 residency, which featured The Merchant of Venice.
They will return to campus in 2005.

One of the many benefits of bringing the RSC to campus includes the interaction with the community. Current plans include
an outreach that would take actors and technicians of RSC out into the surrounding schools, either doing performances at some
of the elementary schools or becoming involved with some of

see Shakespeare, page 4

$2 million buys West new name

Alum Nelson Tomlinson gives funds to rename dormitory

Nathan Cox ’05 emerges from the newly named Tomlinson dormitory Tuesday afternoon

By BLEVINS SHELNUTT
Staff Writer

It was 5:25 a.m. when College Relations staff member David McClintock received a call from alumnus Nelson Tomlinson asking if
West Residence Hall was still “available.”

Startled and bleary-eyed, McClintock confirmed that the hall was without a namesake, and a few phone calls and engravings later,
Tomlinson became the new name of Davidson’s westernmost dormitory.

A native of Winston-Salem and retired broker with Merrill Lynch, Tomlinson graduated from Davidson in 1951.

He became interested in West, provisionally named earlier for its location on campus, after hearing a half-joking proposal by President
Bobby Vagt at a fundraising campaign event. Vagt al-

see West, page 3

ways liked to remind the alumni that the

College soars in 2004 scores

Some students skeptical of latest rankings’ legitimacy

By JOSEPH TAYLOR
Staff Writer

The results are in, and Davidson is the seventh best liberal arts school in the nation—according to U.S. News and
World Report, anyway.

As the nation’s enthrallment with collegiate rankings continues to escalate, and as institutions continue to look toward media-determined status reports,
ranking systems are becoming more and more prevalent. According to a recent New York Times article, the “assorted ranking systems
have become a highly lucrative and influential industry.”

Yet how legitimate are these reports? According to College President Bobby Vagt, the rankings “cover a broad range” on the
legitimacy scale. “While we read them like everyone else, and, while we would rather be ranked No. 7 than No.
17, we make no decisions based upon trying to affect these surveys,” he said.

Nancy Cable, Vice President and Dean of Admission and Financial Aid at Davidson, agreed with President

see Rankings, page 3

FIJI, APA join Court

Students can expect new dynamics First Night Down

By ROSS HEIDBRICK
Staff Writer

Patterson Court, center of the Davidson social scene, will undergo an array of administrative and physical changes this semester. With
construction on fraternity and eating houses continuing amidst the arrival of a new Patterson Court advisor, students are expecting some
moderate adjustments to life on the Court.

Among some of the more major changes is an overhaul to several guidelines governing Court Social organizations. A task force
headed by RLO Director Leslie Marsicano and composed of Davidson faculty and students addressed a number of ongoing administrative concerns.

see the Court, page 3

photo by Colin Eagan

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Davidson soccer picks up two weekend wins

Volleyball falls to Troy State, Memphis in Wildcat Classic
SPORTS, PAGE 11

What's the deal with these cups anyway...
NEWS, PAGE 2
