4 THE DAVIDSONIAN __NEWS WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2003

Pass/fail debate continues as deadline nears

By SARAH-GRACE WESLEY
Staff Writer

As the sixth week of classes approaches, so does the deadline for pass/fail, with completed forms due Friday. The timeless controversy surrounding the policy of pass/fail arises in many students’ minds. They must weigh the potential negative aspects of taking a class pass/fail while trying to predict what type of letter grade they might receive at the end of the semester.

First and second-year students have the option of taking one course per year, even core requirements, as pass/fail, and juniors and seniors can take up to one course pass/fail per semester. The student must decide to do pass/fail in the sixth week of the class and must make a grade of a C minus or better to receive a passing grade for the semester. The outcome of the course does not factor into a student's overall GPA.

Dr. Hansford Epes, Humanities professor and Registrar, described the original intent for the system. “The reasoning was that students might feel freer to select a course in an area unfamiliar to them if they ran little danger of jeopardizing their academic record in doing that.” Dr. Epes went on to explain that students are supposed to use the pass/fail system during course selection as opposed to choosing it during a semester once bad grades have been received.

Many students complain that six weeks into the semester is too soon to determine whether or not they are going to use pass/fail, and many support moving the deadline until after fall break. Epes said that six weeks into the semester is actually three weeks later than it used to be, and again he notes that using the system to bail out mid-semester “was not the reasoning that went into pass/fail.”

Dr. Lynn Poland, Associate Professor of Religion and Humanities, asserted that students tend to “use it to balance a semester” by taking “a really hard course and balancing it with a pass/fail course.”

An anonymous freshman intending to opt for pass/fail this week explained the reasoning, saying, “I find myself in a class I hold no interest in, counts nothing towards my major, and threatens my GPA.” Some would question why the student signed up for the class in the first place, but often people end up in classes they do not like simply because everything else is full. For those students, the system is ideal.

Ben Whigham ’07 supports this notion. Whigham said, “I can understand the controversy, but it’s nice to know it’s there.”

Other students disagree with the basic premise behind the pass/fail system. Kathryn Wilson ’06 said, “Focusing on your GPA doesn’t really accomplish what we’re here for.” Like many professors, she also noted “to do pass/fail is the same as choosing to wimp-out.” Others question the system in light of how it appears on a graduate school transcript or resume to an employer.

Epes said, “I can’t speak for every grad school and employer in the country; I do know that a lot of med schools and an increasing number of law schools are saying that they want to see a grade on the courses you have. A transcript with a lot of P’s onIt looks like the transcript of a slacker.” He said, “Employers who have been through college know what pass/fail means.”

Senior Class Gift Update
100% 73% 72% OF THE SENIOR CLASS HAS NOW PLEDGED OR PAID! If the class of 2004 reaches 75% participation, President and Mrs. Vagt will make an additional gift of $12,004 in honor of the Senior class. Pay your pledge or make your gift online at www.davidson.edu/giving or contact Molly Shaw x2831 or Maria Tardugno x2103 in the Annual Fund Office.

Networking and Career Fairs, and Interview Preparation continue throughout the academic year.

Pass/Fail forms due this Friday. Some professors are also concerned about the false sense of security presented when students opt to take a class Pass/Fail. According to the Registrar, a third of all failure grades come from people doing Pass/Fail in a class. There are also reports that students have had to take classes over again because various med schools wanted to see an actual grade on the transcript. Dr. Barbara Lom, Assistant Professor of Biology, confirmed the problem with students receiving a failing grade instead of perhaps having a D on the report card. Lom said, “It can be a danger because they think it’s a vacation. I have seen it backfire.”

Enforcement, from page 1
Resolve investigations in which off-campus suspects are involved. Walker acknowledged that his policies are more strict than those of previous years, but argued that harsher enforcement actually benefits Davidson students. Walker said, “With a lax enforcement system, students will become used to breaking the rules, and it will be more difficult to adjust once they graduate and are subject to municipal laws.” He added that a laidback enforcement system “creates an issue of liability when students put themselves in situations where they could cause harm to themselves and each other.” Some students have expressed consternation in reaction to Walker’s policies. Connor Mooney ’06 said, “I think that it’s the responsibility of those in the house to control the parties and not necessarily through the increased enforcement of the Davidson police.” Through more severe and ultimately more consistent enforcement policies, Walker hopes to develop a partnership between the Davidson student body and public safety, so that the students will learn to police themselves and officers will need only be present in the case of an emergency. Walker said, “Students should have opportunities to enjoy themselves and have fun, but they should also look out for each other and use common sense in their actions.”

Want to write news? It’s not too late. Email anipatel.

NEW EYECARE IN DAVIDSON
UNIVERSITY EYE ASSOCIATES
Doctors of Optometry PA.
Steven H. Eyler O.D.
Kenneth W. Best O.D.
Maggie M. Metwalli O.D.
N. Elaine Osborne O.D.
Kristin N. Richwine O.D.

We care about you.
- Comprehensive family eye care
- Treatment of eye disease & disorders
- Majority of insurance plans accepted
- LASIK surgery consultations
- Large selection of fashion eyewear
- Protective (safety) eyewear
- Same day appointments available

704-896-9090
455 S. Main St, Ste 100 - Davidson
704-547-1561
8316 Suite E. Medical Plaza Dr. Charlotte/University Area
704-536-6042
6801 East Harris Blvd. Charlotte/Hickory Grove Area