DAVIDSON COLLEGE ~ WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 2003 A LIBERTAS ~ VOLUME 94, NUMBER 24

Push for cable TV not yet scrambled
By Ross Weiner
Staff Writer

Davidson students have resumed a perennial debate centering on cable television in student dorm rooms — an idea that school administrators have traditionally been reluctant to support. This time Jack Hubbard, Class of 2006 President, is the leader of the movement to activate the cable ports that already exist in each room. Hubbard drafted a resolution outlining his plan, which includes optional activation of cable ports in sophomore, junior, and senior rooms. Freshmen would be excluded from the plan, in an attempt to compromise with the administration.

“I’ve been campaigning the issue for a while, and the response is overwhelming,” said Hubbard. “It comes up over and over again.”

Hubbard presented his resolution to SGA, where it was supported by all members except one. He feels that SGA support is a critical step in sending a message that students on campus are willing to get behind the resolution. SGA President Charles Washington ’04 echoes Hubbard’s enthusiasm for the cable plan.

“I’ve been on SGA for several years, and I’ve seen the issue come up a number of times,” said Washington. “I think it’s time to go after it again.”

Hubbard cites an inadequate lounge system as his primary reason for pushing cable in individual rooms. While school administrators have stated that cable access would diminish the community atmosphere in the dorms, Hubbard believes that the lounge system is more harmful to student interaction than helpful.

“Some people feel that the community will be deteriorated if cable becomes available,” said Hubbard. “If people wanted to sit alone in their rooms, they could do that now.”

Washington added, “People came to Davidson for the community, and they’re not going to let cable ruin that.”

Even Sims Hill ’06, the SGA member who voted against the resolution, admits that her objections to the cable plan have nothing to do with the question of the community aspect of the halls.

“We all have high-speed Internet connections, but we haven’t turned into Internet zombies,” she said.

Hill’s objections lie in the practical aspects of the plan, such as student fees for cable service.

“I had problems with the way the resolution was worded. It seemed like the costs for cable might be included in mandatory tuition fees for all sophomores, juniors, and seniors.”

Despite early successes for Hubbard’s resolution, the plan has recently encountered increasing opposition. The most severe blow to Hubbard’s agenda occurred when, by informal consensus, the Union Board declined to support the resolution. Hubbard, however, refuses to give up.

“No formal or official vote was taken by the Union Board. In no way did they kill the cable resolution,” he said, adding that several board members requested more detailed information before they could make a decision.

See Cable, page 4

Photo by Eron Earley-Thiele
SGA Senator Jack Hubbard ’06 says he won’t rest until cable television is activated in every dorm room on campus.

Senior Moore accepts final sanctions for role in goose case
By Matt Garfield
Editor

North Moore does not ask for your sympathy. He only wants you to know he is sorry for his role in the now infamous goose killing and that he is at peace with the sanctions recently handed to him. In his first public comments since he and six Davidson freshmen admitted to killing a goose in a local park on the afternoon of Feb. 7, Moore spoke to The Davidsonian about his punishment and how his life has changed since that day.

Under sanctions finalized by College President Bobby Vagt on April 17, Moore says he will not graduate with his senior class in May, and is not allowed to attend class or even set foot on campus for the remainder of the semester. Moore lives in the Depot apartments off Main Street. Moore declined to specify his sanctions any further, but said he is satisfied with the decision. Vagt declined to comment, citing confidentiality rules spelled out in the Red Book.

“I think the punishment fit the crime,” Moore said. “President Vagt did what he had to do. I think I was treated fairly. It might have been a little too optimistic to think about graduation (in May). President Vagt and I reached the best possible solution between graduation and indefinite suspension.”

After nearly three months of silence, Moore decided the time was right to make a publicApology and let others know about his ordeal. “I think I owe it to the Davidson community,” he said. “I was raised better than this. I need to apologize for what I did wrong. I’m not asking for sympathy.” Moore, a native of Beaumont, Texas, admitted it was his idea as the Kappa Sigma fraternity’s so-called “pledgemaster” to invite freshman pledges to join him in killing a goose as part of a house activity. Other fraternity members may have known about the plan, but Moore says he acted alone in orchestrating it. “This was related to the fraternity, but I wouldn’t say it was done by the fraternity,” he said. “It wasn’t condoned by the whole fraternity. The actions of a few have tarnished the reputation of the group. I feel guilty about that. They’re good guys. I feel responsible for our house getting kicked off campus.” Asked why he initiated the idea, Moore said he hoped it would serve as a bonding experience for the freshman newcomers. “The whole idea of pledging is to bring a pledge class together,” he said. “The foundation of the idea was for all of us to do something

see Moore, page 4

Editor to teach Batten classes in fall

McGuire will focus on bias in the media, First Amendment

By Caroline K. Hauser
Managing Editor

Dean of Faculty Clark Ross has announced the selection of next year’s James K. Batten Professor of Public Policy. Tim J. McGuire, former editor of the Minneapolis Star Tribune and immediate past president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, will teach two classes in the fall. In “Bias, Credibility, and Ethics in the News Media,” McGuire explained via email, “we will explore the trendy arguments about bias in the news media but then we will look at the efforts the media makes to ensure credibility. And, we will examine the ethical dilemmas journalists face. “This class will be beneficial to anyone contemplating journalism as a future but it will also make students much better consumers of news.” McGuire will also teach “Openness vs. Secrecy: America’s Dilemma” which will examine “the First Amendment, Freedom of Information, access and the history of secrecy in America,” said McGuire. In this seminar, he continued, “The Cold War and the two Gulf Wars will get special attention. The goal of the course will be for students to be better equipped to make choices about openness and secrecy in public life in America. Students interested in journalism will especially benefit from case studies taken from real stories I’ve encountered in my 30-year career.” In addition to his tenure at the helm of the Star Tribune, that 30-year career includes a teaching stint at Florida Southern College, as well as teaching professional journalism classes at Poynter Institute and the American Press Institute. Ross is excited about the selection, saying, “McGuire will bring an extraordinary knowledge of journalism and public policy to this position.”

McGuire

$40,000 endowment to fund 2004 conference

By Amee Patel
News Editor

With the help of a $40,000 endowment from Bank of America, the Dean Rusk International Studies Program has started the long process of organizing a 2004 campus conference on a soon-to-be named international topic. Students are invited to discuss potential topics for the conference tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Chambers B-19. The conference will be held March 28-31, 2004. Each day, a panel made up of students, faculty, and guests from outside the Davidson community will explore specific aspects of the topic and a well-informed policy-maker will give a keynote address. The conference will be made possible by an endowed gift from Bank of America. Said Director of the Dean Rusk International Program, Dr. Chris Alexander, “This year we have a larger than usual sum to work with.” With the accrued interest from the past few years, the program will have a sum of $40,000 to organize the 2004 conference. In 1986, only a year after establishing the Dean Rusk program, the College approached North Carolina National Bank, or NCNB, with a proposal for an endowment for internationally themed conferences to be held every few years. NCNB, which has since become Bank of America, endorsed the proposal that very year. From correspondences pertaining to the initial proposal, Davidson officials wrote, “This NCNB event will bring to Davidson key policy-makers, educators, and concerned citizens to explore and discuss vital issues of the day.” Although written nearly two decades ago, Davidson remains dedicated to that goal. “If we can use this event as a vehicle for

see Conference, page 4