4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Patriot, from page 1

person or to protect against international terrorism or clandestine intelligence activities.” A federal judge would look at the application to
determine whether the cause is necessary. Unfortunately, many organizations, including the American Library Association, feel that the amendment leaves too
much of a gap that could easily violate First Amendment rights.

The amended clause opens up arguments, mostly dealing with the rights concerning the privacy of the individual. At Little Library,
Dr. Leland Park ’63 states, “for a number of years there has been a state law that says we are
not allowed to tell who has a book out.” Currently, when a student returns a checked-out book from the library,
all ties between the student and the book are disconnected, and basically the same procedure occurs for inter-library loans. Even
though completed records separate the name of the book loaner from a particular book, any law enforcement agency may take
active files if they have the backing of a court order.

Since the ratification of the act, A.L.A. has put forth many protestations of a person’s right to privacy. Park states
that for research purposes, “people should be able to inquire about a subject without someone looking at your motive. The
government doesn’t know what your point of reference is at the time.” For example, a teenager wanting to learn how
to build or repair a video game should have the right to look up how to do so without the
government believing that he will use the knowledge to create mayhem.

With the strong reaction from A.L.A., Attorney General Ashcroft inquired about the amount section 215 has been used, and so
far, there have been zero investigations that have wanted to look at any library records. Currently, Congress is looking at
several amendments that could ensure the privacy of an individual.

As far as on campus, Travis Lee ’04 believes that if a library record were used in an investigation that
“not much would come from the information given, it’s useless.” Lee cites the reaction as a little “hysteric,” but that
it shows a healthy concern for laws that could potentially affect liberties. Likewise, Park sees a “delicate balance between investigating
terrorism and privacy, we have to be protective of it.” No comments from students have been made, but Park believes
that “the general population trusts libraries to go after problems.” Both see the opposition as an example of the American
government in action.

The town’s recent support for the protests has shown another example of the protective community we live in. Previously, in
the 1850s a book was written by Hinton Rowan Helper that pointed out the economic downfall of slavery. His brother
Pinckney owned the Carolina Inn at the time and in support, Davidson College bought the book and the community supported
and included Helper, rather than boycotting his hotel.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2003

Where have all the green chairs gone?Cowell hopes to replace lightweight plastic with sturdy wood

By ALLISON WHITEMAN
Staff Writer

Students may have noticed something missing when they returned to campus this fall: the green Adirondack lounge chairs that were
introduced last spring are nowhere to be found. The chairs were purchased by Mac Cowell ’06, who got the idea
after seeing similar chairs at Swarthmore College.

“My motivation stemmed from wanting to take advantage of some of the beautiful days we have here,” said Cowell. “Chairs
would do a lot for the general mood and air of the campus.”

Cowell fundraised last fall by walking door-to-door on freshman halls and asking for donations. “The real wooden chairs are way
too expensive for one student to fundraise for, so I elected to get a whole lot of cheap plastic ones,”
he said. Cowell hoped that the concept would make an impression even if the plastic chairs did not have the
longevity of wooden ones.

Of the 34 chairs, only nine or 10 were remaining by the end of last year. The chairs suffered considerable
abuse last semester as most were broken. The remaining chairs are being stored at the physical plant. The chairs were
never collected by the grounds staff but were often taken there when they were found far from campus or broken.

Cowell is working to get the chairs out of storage and back on the campus. Before redistributing them, Cowell wants
to meet with members of the grounds staff to discuss their maintenance. “I’m sure it is annoying for the physical
plant to have to pick up chair remains all the time and move the chairs when they mow,” he said.
Cowell also wants to work with the physical plant to support new wooden chairs, chairs that would have more permanent
locations.

“I fully support more durable devices,” said David Holthouser, Director of Facilities and Engineering. “More durable, permanent options are needed
if this program is to continue.” Holthouser added that the physical plant would be glad to help with their distribution
and arrangement.

Cowell is also looking to student organizations as a possible source of funding for new chairs. The Student Government Association
has shown some interest in the project. Representatives from SGA and the physical plant met last week to discuss the
possible placement of new benches around campus. The chair project was also discussed at the last SGA meeting. Some senators
are concerned that new chairs would be broken.

“We have already seen the destruction of one of our major projects in the red bikes, and I am not
sure that we would want to make any serious investment before we knew the durability of the new chairs,” said
SGA president Charles Washington ’04.

Mac Cowell is exploring many options to get chairs back on campus, both through student groups and college offices. With
any luck, we may see wooden lounge chairs on campus by spring.
