DAVIDSON COLLEGE _ VOLUME 94, NUMBER 24

Dean Marsicano supervises as Justin Neill ’06 and Patrick Walsh ’06 help construct their future housing as part of ‘Marsicanoville.’

‘Marsicanoville’ tents will house displaced students
Village to be built on Chambers lawn to solve lottery problem

By BRANDON CARROLL- RLO Groupie

After 76 rising sophomores were left without on-campus housing following the housing lottery Wednesday, April 9, RLO began exploring alternative housing options. Initial discussions considered granting more off-campus housing permissions or renting rooms with local hotels, but both were dismissed as not being cost-effective. Now, RLO has found an answer.

RLO will construct 38 new housing units on Chambers lawn, between the main academic building and Philanthropic Hall. Patterned on the Hooverville shantytowns of the early 1930s, the housing will feature reinforced cardboard columns with laundry paper walls. Collaborations with other campus organizations will also help keep costs down. In addition to the walls, Davidson laundry will provide sheets to divide the housing into individual rooms, and Davidson Outdoors will rent out their sleeping mats.

Nicknamed ‘“Marsicanoville” by its future inhabitants, the temporary housing neatly alleviates many housing situations. “I think this is the ideal solution,” said Director of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano. “This adds to our supply of up the hill housing, which has been in demand this year. The cost is low and the construction can be completed quickly.”

Marsicano indicated that students living in the makeshift housing might be eligible for ten percent off from normal room rates. She said this was a fair concession since students will lack heating, air conditioning, electricity, doors, running water, high-speed Internet access, or a cable-TV equipped lounge.

College President Bobby Vagt resoundingly endorsed the proposal. “I think this is great, just fantastic. That whole area of campus has been relatively dead ever since the new Union opened. With students living there, it’ll come alive again.” Vagt noted that Marsicanoville would not be located far from Elm and Oak Rows, the original college dormitories that have been converted to offices. “To induce people to live out there, they will be the only dorm rooms on campus to have cable in them, in each room, albeit on battery-powered TVs,” Vagt said.

During inclement weather, Vagt sympathized with students who might be exposed to the elements. Should a hurricane or ice storm of the same magnitude as last December’s strike, he suggested the possibility of opening...

see Marsicanoville, page 2

Commons vegetable ‘blends’ come under intense scrutiny
Critics: Veggies are not true reflections of world cultures

By GEORGIE AHRENDT AND AMEE PATEL
Commons Connoisseurs

Controversy and dismay will forever be linked to Vail Commons as awareness increases about the truth behind the vegetable blends. A full investigation has been launched into the origins of the worldly blends that are served each day to the unknowing students. They have come to accept these veggies as part of their daily, predictable routines.

These blends come from the world over and reflect that in their names—the California Blend, the Sicilian Blend, the Winter Blend, the Scandinavian Blend, the Italian Blend, the Capri Blend, the 5-Way Blend, the Euro blend, and the Oriental Blend. Some observed that certain blends often resembled each other and they began to question whether or not their origins were true to their names, prompting the investigation. Shockingly, they were not.

Dismayed by this conclusion, Davidsonian reporters went to Commons searching for answers. Fearful of losing his job, one high-ranking Commons manager spoke on the condition of anonymity. “When we named the blends, we didn’t do extensive research into the agricultural proclivities of each country, region, or state. We just thought it would sound better than ‘blend of the day’,” said the reliable source.

Little did this loyal employee know that he would incite mass confusion and foster ignorance with this utter misrepresentation of world cultures. As students become aware of this problem, they are finding ways to remedy it. SGA senator Paul Masi ’06 has begun a campus-wide petition to bring an end to this monstrous catastrophe of misnomers. “I would like to see Commons rectify their ways. The food is so great. I hate to see it so poorly named,” Masi said. “Either Commons needs to rename the blends or give us a real taste of these cultural culinary creations.”

The Davidsonian investigation...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Led further to ‘Brilliant’? Trantham wins national column award

By Matt Garfield

Head Honcho Jeremy Trantham will fly to New York next weekend to receive one of the highest honors in all of journalism: “Best College Newspaper Columnist in the United States.” Trantham, whose “Senior Source” column appeared in The Davidsonian nearly every week since August, was chosen for the annual award from a field of more than 1,000 candidates.

“What really stood out was the compassionate yet no-nonsense approach Jeremy takes to everyday issues,” said one judge. “And it is obvious that he did not spend 15 minutes writing his column, write about whatever issue popped into his head or even turn his column in to his editors late almost every week. I’m sure they were all meticulously planned?”

Trantham says he was astonished and a bit baffled when the committee called last month to notify him, mostly because it awakened him from an alcohol-induced slumber he had been in for nearly three days. “At first I figured it was the neighbors calling to complain again,” said Trantham, a Naples, NC, native who lives off-campus at an undisclosed location for security reasons. “Sometimes I wonder how much better my columns could have been had I written them sober. But I guess the booze influence is part of my appeal. Too bad it doesn’t work on the ladies.”

In announcing the award, the selection committee singled out the following (genuine) excerpts from the “Senior Source” as “shining examples of the wisdom of a brilliant young man who will go on to even greater success.”

Trantham on the library: “Asking for more library time is like asking for more work. And asking for more work is like asking for a root canal. It’s just not done. Personally, I try to spend as little time in the library as possible. The stairs are something out of the Brady Bunch, and the color scheme is vomit-inducing. Now that I think about it, the library may even be vomit colored.”

Trantham on weddings: “Recently I had the pleasure of attending a friend’s wedding. And I’m standing at the bar throwing back drinks like they’re free—because they are—when I stumble upon the realization that this whole wedding thing isn’t so bad.”

Trantham on goldfish: “It would be completely hypocritical of me to accuse the girls responsible for the now infamous goldfish incident of being heartless, as I have been known to engage in similar antics myself.”

---

Differentiating between several of the blends. The Sicilian Blend, for example, is not to be confused with the Italian Blend. Are the vegetables found on the island of Sicily so different from their mainland counterparts? Further, the Scandinavian Blend should not be mistaken for the Winter Blend. For while the countries of this region are pretty wintry, they somehow deserve a category of their own. To this, the source replied, “Once again, we did not name the blends in such a literal sense or realize the impact of our actions. We apologize profusely.”

The Davidsonian staff is not the only group on campus to have been upset about the blends scandal. Several groups have noticed the lack of diversity in the naming of these blends. Particularly upset have been the international students on campus. President of the Davidson International Association, Nidhi Paul ’03 said, “Is Commons trying to imply that blends from other parts of the world, such as Asia, Africa, and Latin America, are not worthy of being acknowledged?”

However, College administration has taken notice of the problem. President Bobby Vagt said, “When the news about the blends came to my attention, it was a less than good day.” Vagt further reassured that Davidson College is doing everything in its power to gain back the trust of the student body and to make Commons a welcoming place for blends of all different cultures. Maybe one day we will enter Commons and be able to look at the scoop of vegetables on our tray without a doubt of its true origins. One thing is for sure. A pea will never look the same.

---

INSIDE THIS WEEK

NEWS..........................4
Gulliver the Squirrel comes clean on vandalism. Page 2.

Arts & Living.............5-6
Our critic wasn’t crazy about ‘Anger Management.’ Page 6.

Senior Salute..........7-10
New tribute makes its debut.

Perspectives.........11-12
Columnists weigh in on Spring Frolics. Page 12.

Sports..................13-16
Senior athletes reflect on their careers. Page 16.