Several school records fall as men and women turn in excellent performances

By ASHLEIGH FINN
Staff Writer

On Tuesday, February 18, the Davidson Swimming and Diving team took selected individuals to the Colonial Athletic Association Championships (CAA’s)
in Fairfax, Virginia. Davidson family and friends from all over the United States flew in to support the Wildcats during
their grueling and highly competitive four-day championship.

The majority of Wildcat women dominated their individual events and many were able to achieve their personal best times of
the season. Sara Laws ’04 and Vanessa Witt ’04 held strong in the 400 IM. Witt placed ninth with a
time of 4:31.71, while Laws placed third in the 400 IM with a time of 4:31.69. Laws also broke the
Davidson record in the 100 back. Kelsey Holmberg ’04 achieved a best time in the 500 free and broke the
school record in the mile. Megan Perez ’05 attained her two personal best times in both the 100 fly (1:00.2)
and the 200 fly (2:12). Lauren Taft ’05 broke three of her own personal records and finaled in all three
of her events. Taft now holds the second fastest time for Davidson in the 100 fly with a time of
58.97, as well as her own personal best time in the 200 fly with a time of 2:09.72. She created
a major upset in her 200 IM event when she moved from her rank of 30 to 15 with an
incredible time of 2:12. Megan Hollar ’06 also made a strong presence in all three of her events; she broke
yet another school record this season in the 100 breast.

According to captain Ashley Cain ’04, “The women’s team did outstanding overall. After being in the CAA’s for three years
we really showed the conference that we were no longer the same slow team. We had numerous top eight finishes,
more than ever before and it was an exciting end to a strong season.”

The men’s team swam very well individually and their hard training throughout the season was revealed in the strong results
and times across the board. Diego Marquez ’03 finished his swimming career at Davidson with personal best times in the
50 freestyle (23.14) and in the 200 breaststroke (2:14.39) and with a Davidson best time in the 100 breaststroke (1:00.84).
Mike Mazza ’04 swam a personal best in the 100 butterfly with a time of 53.3. Sophomore Foster Mathew’s determined
efforts and training throughout the season clearly paid off in his time of 2:08 in the 200 breaststroke. Freshman Joe
Segal and Thomas Houston both swam their own personal best times as well; Segal in the 200 breaststroke (2:11.97) and
Houston in the 100 yard backstroke (57.5), 100 butterfly (55.1) and freestyle (49.5). Segal also broke a Davidson record in
the 100 breaststroke with a time of 1:00.79, missing consolation finals by .10 of a second.

According to Senior Captain Diego Marquez, “The team gave it everything they had and we had several guys dropping a
lot of time and either making itBack for a finals or coming very close. “I think we left everything in
the pool this past weekend, and there’s not much more the coaches can ask of the team.” Congratulations to the
end of a great season!

Photo by Eron Earley-Thiele

Senior first baseman Mark Williams snags a throw.

Baseball sweeps Mount St. Mary’s to open season (finally)

By Jerr Davis - Staff Writer

On the sixth try for opening day, the 2003 baseball season began on Sunday with a pair of wins over
Mount St. Mary’s (0-2). The ’Cats (2-0) received excellent pitching and key hits to help foster their 1-0 and 5-3
wins.

The first game was highlighted with senior D.J. Dailey’s solo home run in the bottom of the fifth inning. In
the later of the two games, RHP Andy Carter ’05 was three outs away from a no-hitter until Mountaineer Jason
Weszka singled in the top of the seventh.

Derrick Wolpert ’03 (1-0) pitched a solid first game, earning his first ever complete-game shutout. Wolpert allowed just two hits
while striking out five. Along with Wolpert’s great hurling performance, the defense proved to be ready for every ball hit
to them. Committing only one error, the defense turned two double plays, one on a single-handed diving effort by second
baseman Eli Benefield ’05.

“The defense today was phenomenal. I couldn’t have asked for a better defensive effort,” said Wolpert. “It’s so nice to
pitch when knowing that the guys behind you can get the job done.”

After five and a half scoreless innings, Dailey cracked a solo shot to right center, which would turn out to
be the only run of the game. Down two strikes in the count, Dailey was just trying to get the
ball in play. “He threw me a fastball on the outside corner, I was just trying to hit the ball
hard and get it into play,” stated Dailey. “I hit the ball well but I didn’t think it would reach
the fence.”

In the second game, Carter (1-0) dominated the Mountaineers through six innings allowing no hits. In the top of the
seventh, his party was spoiled when Weszka singled, starting a three-run inning for Mt. St. Mary’s. During Carter’s six innings
pitched he mustered four strikeouts and only two walks while hitting one batter. “I had all my pitches working for
me, most importantly my fastball,” said Carter. “I also have to give credit to our defense. I couldn’t have asked
for a better defensive effort.”

Once again the ’Cats waited until the fifth inning to get the bats going. With one out and a runner
on second, Jay Heafner ’06 singled to center, scoring Dan Obermeier ‘06 for the first run of the game. Heafner
reached second on the play. After a walk and a wild pitch, Navarro grounded a two-out single to right field
that scored Heafner and Dailey, who had walked earlier in the inning. The ’Cats collected two more runs in the
sixth on Heafner’s sacrifice fly and Dailey’s RBI single.

“Overall, it was a great team effort for both wins,” stated coach Dick Cooke. “We hit well situationally, played great
defense, and of course got excellent pitching from Derrick and Andy.”
