Teenage and ego aside, Mayer’s ‘Things’ a success

By STEVE KALISKI
Staff Writer

“Heavier Things,” the sensational new studio album from John Mayer, should remind his original followers of why they liked this
guy so much before his commercial success. Experimental yet understated, ambitious yet unpretentious, “Things” shows a great respect for Mayer’s
artistic integrity while refusing to alienate his irritatingly overblown fan base.

I’ve always thought that the music world would regard John Mayer as a totally different artist if he weren’t the
type of man who attracted obnoxious 13-year-old girls. His nuanced guitar skills, smoky vocals, and intelligent lyrics from “Room for
Squares” had more than enough weight to distinguish him in the “Dave Matthews” genre, and yet his success has somehow
landed him in the boy-band-Britney demographic.

Much of this is due to his polarizing live performance, in which smitten adolescents squeal orgiastically as Mayer slurps on
the microphone and makes obscene comments between numbers. His inflated ego also hurt him on his recent tour, in which
he inexplicably placed himself second on a bill that opened with the Counting Crows, a veteran live band that dwarfed
everything salvageable from the Georgia boy’s ho-hum setlist.

Still, as “Things” has reconfirmed in my mind, Mayer is a genius in the studio. Marketing considerations force him to
annunciate his lyrics, and the beauty of the medium allows all demographics to enjoy his creations without having to look
at him.

“Things” opens with a satisfying one-two punch, beginning quietly with the slick, trumpet-induced “Clarity” and continuing with the album’s infectious
new single, “Bigger than My Body.” The remaining eight tracks resist pop contrivances and feature such wonderfully sincere songs as
“Something’s Missing” and the David Gray-esque “Wheel.”

Given the generally disappointing results of follow-up albums, Mayer deserves praise for avoiding the pitfalls of a dumbed-down sell-out release.
His only flirtations with songwriting clichés appear with his lyrics, which occasionally veer into artificiality and sappiness. After I first
heard him proclaim, “Someday I’ll fly/Someday I’ll soar,” I began to wonder if every musician must write a song about
becoming airborne. Also, the earnest “Daughters,” a sweet song about fathers, mothers, and little girls, would perhaps ring true if
its focus were something that Mayer knew anything about.

Still, “Things” at the very least equals “Room for Squares” in its crisp, varied sound. Every track resonates with a
different chord, and yet the album never feels erratic or inconsistent. The shift from the Eastern grooves of “Home Life”
to the depressingly romantic swells of “Split Screen Sadness” occurs gracefully, without calling attention to its own abruptness.

“Heavier Things,” the antithesis of the sophomore slump, represents a considerable accomplishment for John Mayer. It is precisely the tight,
comfortable album that he needed to maintain credibility in critical circles. It is rock music with a personal signature, a
pop album with songs that were written instead of produced.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2003

Popular music at its best

By ANDY HESTON
Staff Writer

The New Pornographers want to change the way you think about rock and roll. Oh wait, excuse me, that’s not
at all true. The New Pornographers really don’t care about the way you think about rock and roll. The New
Pornographers want you to roll down the windows of your car. The New Pornographers want you to buy a pair
of sunglasses in a gas station. The New Pornographers want you to go to Sonic and order a corn dog
and a cherry limeade. The New Pornographers want to be the soundtrack to your summer, whether that summer is the
one currently slipping away from us or the perpetual summer inside all of us: the summer of the sixteen-year-old with
a freshly printed driver’s license and his mom’s Corolla. The New Pornographers want to be the band that reaffirms your
faith in just how simple and great this whole popular music thing can be. Just who are theseNew Pornographers, any-
way? Well, they’re somewhat of an indie rock supergroup composed of former members of other bands of varying degrees of
obscurity. Indie rock heartthrob/chanteuse Neko Case is of particular interest. (Neko Case. So hot right now. Neko Case.) And just
what exactly do they sound like? Imagine the Cars if Rick Ocasek wasn’t such a scary lifeless corpse of a
frontman, or the Strokes’ younger siblings who are more concerned with having fun and singing background vocals than looking cool
and smoking cigarettes. There’s a slight hint of the garage aesthetic that’s all the rage these days. But where so
many bands seem like they’re just copping the pose of the moment, the New Pornographers’ swirling keyboards and bouncy guitars
sound like they’re right out of “That Thing You Do!” There’s an innocence to their latest album, “Electric Version,” that’s
hopelessly endearing; they fall at your feet doing everything they can to put a smile on your face, all without
ever sounding cloying or saccharine. It’s impossible to describe the way these songs get under your skin. A little guitar,
a little keyboard, a little wash of background vocals, and suddenly you’ve got this ridiculous grin on your face and
you remember that this is what pop music is supposed to sound like, from “I Want to Hold Your Hand”
to “The Laws Have Changed” (the leadoff single). From 1963 to 2003 in a breathless moment, teenagers now and teenagers
then sing along to the same ecstatic chorus. It’s effervescent. Try, just try, getting Neko Case’s singing “All for Swinging
You Around” out of your head. If you’re successful, let me know how. My brain’s been dancing around to that
surf rock chorus for a good couple of days now. But I don’t want it to leave. The sense of
fun is contagious: the band’s having fun, so I’m having fun. It’s as simple as that. And if that’s not
what rock and roll is all about, well then, it’s a lie I like to keep believing.

‘Matchstick’ goes out at end
By Derek LOH
Arts & Living Editor

The more I think about “Matchstick Men,” the less I like it. I described it as “top-notch,” and now I’m
not so sure. Nicholas Cage follows up his twin roles in “Adaptation” with another quirky performance here. He plays Roy,
an obsessive-compulsive conman suffering from uncontrollable tics and agoraphobia. Conveniently (not only for Roy, but also for the screenplay), he
takes pills that allow him to continue in his devious ways. But he’s a nice conman. His partner Frank (Sam
Rockwell) is the slipperier one. The first half hour shows one of their schemes, which, to the rest of the
film, adds nothing but a few laughs. In a movie that later reveals itself as plot-obsessed, this sequence is expendable.
The real story begins when Roy drops his pills down the kitchen sink. Unwilling to visit a psychiatrist, Roy receives
his pills illegally, but then his dealer moves across the country.

So he does the only thing that the movies let obsessive-compulsives do: he locks himself in his house and cleans
like it’s 1999. A few days later, Frank finally gains entry and recommends Roy to a psychiatrist. Dr. Klein (Bruce
Altman) and Roy talk about Roy’s neurosis, his alcoholic past, and the wife that he left “with a black eye
and a bun in the oven.” At Roy’s request, Dr. Klein finds the bun, which is 16 and named Angela.
Angela (Alison Lohman) arrives on a skateboard and full of energy. It’s a testament to Lohman’s performance that she’s always
convincing, even during the impossible conclusion. Now about that conclusion. It worked seamlessly until, days later, I realized the staggering
implausibility that the final events necessitate. “Matchstick Men” could have been a better-than-most character study and con movie, but instead
went over logic’s edge.

Movie Extras/Models Needed
No Experience Required
All looks and ages
Earn $100 - $300 a day
1-888-820-0167, ex. U260
