THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘Grammy nods too conservative
By Andy Heston
Staff Writer

Several days ago I was painfully reminded of why the Grammy awards have lost any and all relevance, credibility, and
merit. Exhibit A: the Grammys’ continued insistence on complete irrelevancy. The first rap Grammy was not given until 1988, more
than a decade after the genre’s birth. In the year of Public Enemy’s groundbreaking album “It Takes a Nation of
Millions to Hold Us Back,” the first rap Grammy went to Will Smith’s song “Parents Just Don’t Understand.” As hard
as it is for me to believe it, a rock artist did not win the song of the year award
until 1977, when the Eagles won with “Hotel California.” In 1967 the Beatles’ “A Day in the Life” was passed
over in favor of the 5th Dimension’s “Up, Up and Away.” “Up, Up and Away” received five Grammys; “Sgt. Pepper’s”
only two. The Best New Artist award for 1977 was given to Debby Boone. In 2001, Album of the Year
went to Steely Dan’s “Two Against Nature,” rather than Eminem’s “Marshall Mathers LP” or Radiohead’s “Kid A.”

Exhibit B: the Grammys’ refusal to recognize the past careers of artists nominated for the Best New Artist award. The
Fountains of Wayne, also nominated for Best New Artist, released their debut album seven years ago in 1996. What kind
of sense would it make for a band to win Best New Artist for its third album? There are also
several artists in this category who, while “new,” aren’t even close to “best.” Evanescence springs to mind. Naturally, they’re also
nominated for Best Hard Rock Performance and Best Rock Album.

So how does that leave us for this year’s Grammy nods? Pretty predictable: a decent mix of big sellers (Justin
Timberlake, Beyonce, 50 Cent), edgy-yet-still-acceptable-to-the-mainstream-press acts (OutKast, the White Stripes), and the old, venerable, and typically deceased (George Harrison, Warren
Zevon, Johnny Cash). Yet for all its conservatism, this year’s Grammy nominations remind me of just how good a year
for music 2003 has been. Finally, the return of some decent pop music! A great deal has been made over
the numerous Rap/R&B/urban nominees (OutKast and Beyonce with 6 nominations each, Justin Timberlake with 5), and all I can say
is it’s about time. Perhaps forgettable teen pop and angst-metal have finally loosened their hold on the popular music scene?
One can only hope.

“Bad Santa,” from page 5
Sure, but less than saccharine entertainments that are too embarrassed and oversimplified for comedy. Bill Murray was supposed to play
the title role in “Bad Santa.” In an interview with the New York Times, director Terry Zwigoff said that he
wanted Murray because, “[t]here are few actors who can be funny.” Luckily, Murray pulled out, and Thornton took his place.
The problem is that Murray, even when he plays a scrooge (see “Kingpin”), is so likable and the lead in
“Santa” is so deplorable that it requires a deadpan performance undeliverable by Murray. Perhaps Thornton is the only actor grungy
enough to pull off the role. He looks, as much as anyone can, like a tactless alcoholic. His dialogue, which
provides most of the laughs, consists mostly of vulgarities about “retards” and “midgets.” There are approximately 280 profanities, which are
funny because they’re aimed at children. The film dedicates itself to political incorrectness to such a degree that it’s kind
of brilliant. Audacious is an understatement.

Bad Santa
Directed by: Terry Zwigoff
Written by: Glenn Ficarra and John Requa
Starring: Billy Bob Thornton, Tony Cox, Brett Kelly, Lauren Graham
Running time: 93 minutes

ON THE CAT WALK
What’s your exam-taking strategy?

Corner with Cannon Hodge
The papillon searchers

How is it possible that an eleven-week-old puppy is more recognized than a senior who writes for two college publications?
Seriously, Fred and I’ll be walking across campus and people will stop in their tracks, call him by name, cuddle
and coo at him, and then (out of common courtesy, of course) give me a sweet little smile and say,
“Hi.” Honestly, he’s only been in my life for two weeks. Papillons (that’s French for “butterflies”) are what Icall frou-frou
dogs: they have humongous ears and can fit nicely into one’s pocketbook. Now pretend that you’re me for a second
and imagine the vision of having some teensy-tiny dog with humongous ears peering out of the top of my purse.
I know. It’s just perfect. Who wouldn’t want one?

Rule #1: When going on the puppy search, always leave your wallet in the car.

Watauga, Texas — which once had a population of sixty-five and now only ten minutes north of Fort Worth —
is where the Jolly family lives. De’anne Jolly had put an ad in the paper announcing that they had papillon
puppies for sale. Momma and I responded. De’anne had a very clean and modest brick house complete with papillon street
signs. Momma believed that this was a good sign. There were doggies everywhere and, aside from the jingling cat bells,
all of the dogs were silent. Imagine that! A frou-frou dog that doesn’t bark! It was love at first sight.
I never had seen a papillon before and just couldn’t believe that these tiny creatures were really dogs. Their entire
bodies were wagging. And those ears! (They are related to bats, aren’t they?) Momma wanted a puppy. I wanted a
puppy. And you would have wanted a puppy had you been there. Momma and I were ready to buy the
entire litter.

Rule #2: Beware of llamaholics.

We located a breeder in Southlake, Texas — just north of Watauga — and Momma and I hoped that this
breeder would have a puppy that could whet our appetite. Well. Let me tell you. Sally and her husband were
not only papillon breeders but also were llama breeders. Yes. That’s right: llama breeders. They also had this “show-quality” papillon,
Charlie, who was a national champion or something. He was beeeeee-u-tiful. But Charlie didn’t sire the litter. No. Two mangy
dogs resembling the sweet, fluffy Charlie were the parents. From the looks of these two, the llama breeders seemed to
focus their efforts only on Charlie and their llamas, which grazed in the front yard. None of the dogs were
potty-trained. But, even worse; it seemed that the llamaholics hadn’t cleaned their house since 1931. And I’m not exaggerating. It
was disgusting: there were stacks of junk piled everywhere. It was a domestic black hole that reeked of dog mess
and cigarettes. Fearing ringworm, Momma refused to sit on the carpet. She squatted instead. It was decided. About two seconds
after leaving Sally’s menagerie, Momma and I called up the Jolly house and said, “Yes!” We wanted their male puppy.

Fred only weighs two and a half pounds - so everything that Fred does is absolutely adorable. It’s just impossible
to discipline a creature that looks like a mix between a dog, cat, rat, rabbit, and gremlin, especially when he
jumps up and down like a yo-yo. And Fred’s especially adorable. All of his toys are mini-sized and his bones
are bigger than he is. Have you seen him hop up the stairs or bound across a stretch of grass?
Oh. My. God. It’s just precious. He’s like a wind-up toy. Of course, Fred’s been all over the place, both
in Texas and North Carolina. During his first trip on an airplane, the flight attendants took pictures with him. Fred
also helped my thirty-nine-year-old cousin pick up women at the annual Thanksgiving Drunk party in Fort Worth. Naturally, Fred’s been
to the liquor store, the bar, and a couple of parties. He’s one hell of a social butterfly. Fred’s instant
popularity continues to amaze me. Suddenly, the entire college knew who Fred was and began calling him by name. Fred’s
chummy with the basketball team and union regulars. And you can’t believe how much more approachable a girl is when
she has a puppy in tow. Fred and I can’t even make it across campus without being stopped at least
four times.
