the problem, RLO is examining a variety of corrective measures. “We'll give some more off-campus permissions,” Marsicano said, also expecting study abroad programs, transfers, and drop-outs to relieve some of the pressure. In addition, First Belk Center rooms, traditionally upperclassmen with freshmen on the wings, will not be assigned until the Admissions Office can tell RLO exactly how many freshmen to expect. Could senior apartment vacancies go to wait-listed students? “That’s possible, [but] it has never, ever happened. I would be shocked if that happened,” Marsicano said. The possibility exists that off-campus housing permissions will go to rising juniors and seniors who currently hold high-demand rooms because of their lower lottery numbers. Many rising sophomores with room assignments see the possibility of wait-listed students getting better rooms as unfair and as a violation of the principles of the lottery system. Jon Squires ’06 and his three clustermates are on the waiting list. He said, “The lottery is supposed to give students a sense of choice in where they live. As I understand it now, we have to take whichever rooms are given to us by RLO. From the other side of the same coin, I’ve been told people on the waitlist often get better rooms. That doesn’t seem fair to the people who had [better] freshman lottery numbers,” even though Squires and his friends stand to benefit from the practice. Marsicano said, “Well, that’s the way it works out sometimes. Ideally, we’ll give everybody the room they want exactly when they want it.” She said that 1800 students frequently want the same rooms, and RLO cannot always satisfy all of them. As for very high numbers ending up with good rooms, Marsicano said, “That’s the payment they get for being temporarily homeless, and the anxiety” associated with it.

Substance-Free Controversy

Marsicano has relatively little sympathy for students in Little Dormitory who did not want to be sub-free. “What they did was make a choice,” she said. “There were options available, they were down the hill.” She indicated that students could not vote to go off sub-free, as students on non-sub-free halls can informally vote to go sub-free. “They signed a sub-free contract, and they will be held to that contract,” she said. Several students going through the housing process criticized the process, when Cannon and Sentelle were nearly if not completely full before any rooms in Little had been selected. They believed RLO had overestimated the demand for sub-free housing. Squires asked, “Why on God’s green earth did RLO plan on having a whole dorm allocated for substance-free kids?” He suggested an earlier sub-free lottery so that student demand would be matched exactly with sub-free housing. “We asked hall counselors and RAs in sub-free housing to poll their halls,” Marsicano said. “We had a petition with approximately 80 names on it,” giving RLO justification for allocating all of Little to sub-free housing. Yet some of those people who signed the petition had excellent lottery numbers, and they chose to not go sub-free in order to secure a larger room. Rob Heidrick ’06, who faced a decision to go substance-free or down the hill, said, “I personally think that if you have strong enough convictions to sign your name to a petition that could potentially exclude people from living where they want to live, you had better be willing to live there yourself.” Heidrick chose to live down the hill. “Nobody knew it was going to be Little when they signed the petition for sub-free. I think people assumed it would be Cannon because...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"That the sub-free for upperclassmen this year,” said Matt Bandyk ’06, who hoped to live in sub-free housing but is on the waiting list. “It almost felt like punishment for being sub-free. We can give you all the housing you want, it's just not going to be as nice,” said Bandyk’s future roommate, Ted Emerson ’06. “That is something we will consider for future years,” Marsicano said.

Marsicano emphasized how smoothly senior apartment selection took place this year. Last spring, RLO was embroiled in a controversy dealing with Martin Court housing. RLO spent the past year reviewing and redesigning its room selection policies there, and this year student questionnaires rated the revised process well. Marsicano indicated that once housing was finalized this year, RLO might look into improving the process to reduce this year’s problems, such as not designating Little as upperclassmen housing. “We haven’t had any chance to evaluate so far this year,” she said.

The Gender Resource Center presents...

HUMAN NATURE
Wednesday, April 23rd
7 pm, Brown Atrium (Alvarez College Union)
Celebrating Gender and Creativity at Davidson College
Free Admission

Featuring...
Androgyny Dance Ensemble
Oops... Gay-Straight Alliance
Selections from the Vagina Monologues
...and more!

Refreshments will be provided free of charge during intermission.

Presented this year in loving memory of Katherine Costa, Class of 2003. There will be an opportunity to reflect on Katherine’s life before and after the show, and during intermission. Pages for a scrapbook will be made available - please bring pictures, letters, or other favorite memories that you would like to contribute.

Falster said aike and their friends decided late Thursday night to stay at the Best Western in Cornelius rather than attempt to find a place to sleep on campus. “We had homework to do, so we decided we might as well go somewhere comfortable to stay up late rather than crash on someone’s floor,” she said.

The school has arrangements with hotels on Exit 28 for long-term power outages, but in cases like these, Marsicano says RLO prefers to let students make their own decisions. “Based on what students have told us, they prefer to go in with friends,” she said. “They prefer to make their own arrangements rather than, say, all be together in Baker.”

Residents faced similar circumstances in December when a massive ice storm knocked out electricity across Mecklenburg County, including in Belk and Richardson. All other residence halls on campus are powered by underground wiring that runs from a campus generator, and were not affected by either outage. Officials expect to have Belk and Richardson on that system by Christmas, but Hahneman thinks that should’ve already been done. “It frustrates me very much that this is the second time this year Belk and Rich have lost power. You wish they would’ve resolved the generator system or had smoother plans,” she said.

Many students were unable to complete homework assignments due the next day, but Marsicano said it’s left up to professors to decide whether to grant extensions. “I don’t think a school policy can address it because there are so many variations among classes,” said Marsicano. “By having the Honor Code, you don’t need an excuse from the Director of Residence Life.”

Asked how the school would handle power outages differently in the future, Marsicano said RLO would send out e-mails and post signs to keep students better informed.