DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 2, 2003

VOLUME 94, NUMBER 21

IRWIN BELK INVITATIONAL

Senior Jimmy Swansbrough competes in the steeplechase event at Saturday’s home track meet. Swansbrough took first place in the race, the first of its kind at Richardson Stadium. See story, page 12.

Akers intruder remains in jail on three charges

Cornelius man hasn't posted $150,000 bond

By CAROLINE K. HAUSER
Managing Editor

The man who entered Akers Residence Hall on Mar. 18 remains behind bars in a Mecklenburg County jail under $150,000 bail.

Steven Woodruff, 31, of Cornelius, is charged with first-degree burglary, attempted first-degree forcible rape, and damage to personal property.

Originally, said Davidson President Bobby Vagt, the magistrate released him with two misdemeanor charges. “The institution felt that was inadequate,” said Vagt.

Charges were re-filed—this time, three felonies—and Woodruff was arrested again shortly after being released.

Woodruff, who is in no way affiliated with Davidson College, entered Akers at approximately 2:30 a.m. on Mar. 18.

A female student awoke as Woodruff was cutting off her pajamas. Other students chased Woodruff across campus to the Cunningham parking lot, where a waiting officer arrested him.

“We are still pushing the investigation,” said Sam McKelvey, Director of Public Safety and Campus Police. “[We’re still] gathering information for prosecution.”

Kappa Sig’s charter revoked

Committee votes to close house for at least two years

By BRANDON CARROLL
News Editor

In what many hope marks the end of this story, the Davidson chapter of Kappa Sigma fraternity has had its charter revoked.

The fraternity’s Supreme Executive Committee voted last week to unanimously revoke the charter for a period of no less than two years.

The action is a result of a February incident in which one senior Kappa Sigma member and six freshmen pledges lured a goose, and then beat it with a golf club at Roosevelt Wilson Park.

They were arrested and charged with two felonies, animal cruelty and conspiracy to animal cruelty.

Last week, the Davidsonian reported that the students received deferred prosecution, which consists of a one-year probationary period, counseling, and 100 hours of community service. They may also not own pets during the one-year period. If the students meet those requirements, the charges will be dismissed next year.

Following the proceedings, the freshmen issued a public apology saying the killing was part of a fraternity initiation stunt.

The College had already conducted an investigation of the fraternity, and suspended it for 18 months, until fall of 2004.

Last week, the seven students faced school charges in individual Code of Responsibility trials. The students elected to hold closed trials, and consequently those results are sealed.

The students declined to comment to the Davidsonian.

Grahaeme Hesp, Patterson Court Advisor, informed the Court community of the national Kappa Sigma board’s decision via e-mail on Monday, citing an Associated Press article.

Mitchell Wilson, executive director of the

see Charter, page 3

Dave show expenses come in under budget

By MATT GARFIELD
Editor

Dave Matthews and Tim Reynolds left the stage at Belk Arena eight days ago, culminating a concert that Union officials say turned out even better—musically and financially—than they expected.

The three-hour show attracted a sellout audience of 4,825, bringing in enough ticket revenue to allow the Union to fund the show without exceeding its annual concert budget, said Union Director William Brown.

With that revenue taking care of most of Matthews’ salary, the College had to use only an additional $15,000, about $5,000 less than Brown had anticipated. The Union sets aside roughly $20,000 annually for spring shows in Belk Arena.

“We’re just tickled,” said Brown. “We did put a significant amount of money at risk, but we didn’t think it was a challenge that was beyond us. It was within days of the first ticket being sold that we could rest easy.”

Unlike last fall’s John Mayer show, for which the Union spent $12,000 on advance advertising, the Dave Matthews show sold out with no publicity.

Matthews’ fan club, Warehouse, snatched up 1,500 tickets within two days, and Davidson students and staff purchased another 1,500 within about a week, paying a special rate of $39.50, $10 less than other shows on the tour, said Lee Ann Bannerman, Assistant Director of Union Programs.

“Initially they were not going to give us any reduced prices,” she said. “That was like a gift. We wanted to keep the price down in order to have maximum attendance on the part of our students.”

Fans from as far away as Florida and New York purchased the remaining 3,325 tickets, helping to justify Matthews’ decision to choose Davidson over 350 schools competing for a spot on his 12-show tour.

“We felt like we had every reason to believe it would sell out,” said Brown. “We didn’t spend a nickel on publicity.”

Fans also purchased more than $20,000 worth of CDs, t-shirts, and collectibles at the makeshift tables set up in the Belk Arena lobby.

Some observers thought the two-man acoustic shows might not generate as much excitement as the Dave Matthews Band high-energy summer tours. But Brown said he was confident

see Dave, page 2

INSIDE THIS WEEK

WALT struggles to gain listeners on tiny AM signal. Page 3.

Arts & Living......................... 5-6
Our critics review a Mexican restaurant in Mooresville. Page 6.

Perspectives......................... 7-8
Columnist: Rift between social groups threatens our college experience. Page 8.

Sports................................. 9-12
All you need to know about last Saturday’s home track meet, the Irwin Belk Invitational. Page 12.