¢ er during Tuesday's game. No. 3 Wake Forest narrowly escapes soccer’s upset bid By GEORGE FEHLING Staff Writer

WINSTON-SALEM—The men’s soccer team split two huge non-conference games this week, winning 2-1 in double-overtime against South Carolina Friday night
and losing 1-0 to No. 3 Wake Forest Tuesday night.

The split puts the ’Cats at 11-5-2 overall, and the team remains 5-1-0 in the SoCon, good for first place.
The regular season finale is Saturday at Georgia Southern, and the conference tournament begins Nov. 13.

No. 3 Wake Forest 1 Davidson 0

The Wildcats took their confidence from the road win and headed to Spry Stadium to face the #3 Demon Deacons
Tuesday night, but a match full of hard physical play came down to a Wake Forest penalty kick, giving the
Deacons a 1-0 win.

Looking for a win against a ranked team, the ’Cats hoped to increase their chances of receiving an at-large bid
to the NCAA tournament by ending the last part of the season with some big wins.

“We really challenged a team that has been playing great soccer with recent 4-0 shutouts over South Carolina, North Carolina,
and Duke,” said Spear. “We pushed them farther than they expected and made them play their best soccer. That is
the level of competition we want to be at.”

Women’s Cross Country Hometown: Hilton Head, SC Major: History

Fillnow, the top runner on the Wildcat squad and one of the best in the SoCon, led the women to
a conference title in Saturday’s home meet with a second-place finish.

By AUSTIN MERCADANTE Staff Writer

The women’s cross-country team became the most successful in school history on Saturday, winning the Southern Conference Championship in front
of its home crowd.

“Winning the team championship still seems surreal,” exclaimed Kelly Fillnow ’05.

The women had solid races from just enough runners to secure the conference title in an agonizingly close race between
Davidson (75 points), Furman (76 points), and Appalachian State (80 points).

Commented Anna Brew ’05 on her team’s victory, “One point turned out to be precious on Saturday, and every member
of the team played a vital role in earning it.”

Davidson was led once again by two-sport star Kelly Fillnow. Fillnow immediately charged to the front of the pack to
take control of the race as the runners ran from Baker Sports Complex into the woods. Kate Sujkowski of Appalachian
State pulled away from Fillnow in the third mile of the 5-kilometer (3.1 miles) race to win the individual title,
but Fillnow’s second-place finish earned her all-conference recognition.

Despite the great race by Fillnow, it took a complete team effort to secure the conference title. Sally Stanhope ’05
picked a perfect time to have a great race, as her breakthrough performance resulted in a 14th-place finish, which was
good enough for second on the team. Jenna Kruppa ’04 made a successful return to conference competition after a year
abroad, finishing a few seconds behind Stanhope in 17th place. Crossing the line in 18th was Anna Brew ’05 who,
after a three-month injury hiatus, returned to fine racing form in one week of training. Mid-season addition Katherine Hatch ’04
rounded out the scoring five for the Wildcats as she placed 24th overall in the race.

For her efforts in preparing the team for this race, head coach Jen Straub was awarded the Coach of the
Year award for the second straight year. Captain Laura Puckett ’04 had high praise for her coach: “In her four
years...‘At Davidson, Coach Straub has transformed this team, working with us to make us the champions that we are today.’

The men’s team had a much less spectacular day on the cross-country course. Despite showing potential early in the season,
the conference race proved disastrous for a team slowed by various injuries and maladies. Captain Chris Schmader ’04 was the
first finisher, crossing the line in 18th place. He was followed soon after by Ben Gaspar ’04 in 31st, Matt
Rhodes ’07 in 34th, and Jonathan Baker ’06 in 37th. The men’s team can only hope to regroup for one
final race, when the men and women will run at the NCAA Southeast Region in Greenville, NC on November 15.
The women hope to cap a historic season with a strong finish against some of the best colleges in the
Southeast. The men just hope to pull things together to end the season on a high note.

Field hockey takes No. 1 seed into tourney
By BEN WHIGHAM
Staff Writer

Silencing any doubt about its postseason potential, Davidson’s field hockey squad enters this weekend’s NorPac Conference Championship as the top
seed in the eastern division. But the ’Cats’ final match against rival Appalachian State served as a stirring reminder of
the unpredictable nature of the NorPac Conference, which has been marked by numerous upsets and few blowouts. A physical Appalachian
State team scored early and went on to outlast the visiting ’Cats 2-0 on Wednesday. The defeat split the series
between the two teams as well as their conference records, but tie-breaking protocol found Davidson to be the more deserving
squad, and the team maintained their top seed in the East.

Responding to the defeat as a challenge, the ’Cats have taken the loss in stride. “It served as a great
wakeup call for us,” said Shari Barnett ’07. “We need to unite as a team.” Despite their number-one seed, the
’Cats face a tough first round in Southwest Missouri. Davidson suffered a 0-1 loss against the Bears in a tournament
earlier this year. “Southwest Missouri is a strong, physical field hockey team,” notes head coach Lisa Thompson. “We need to
come out stronger and connect on our passes.”

The players are excited about earning the first top seed in Davidson’s NorPac conference history. “It made my day,” said
Christina Auer ’04, who insists that “beating Southwest Missouri” demands the ’Cats’ complete focus. Continuing the step-by-step approach that served
them well throughout the regular season, the ’Cats have kept any ideas of a conference championship as an afterthought and
remain focused on the present. Even with a top seed, the ’Cats realize that every team represents a challenge in
the evenly-matched NorPac Conference. “It’s anyone’s conference,” says captain Zoe Segwitz ’04, “but we’re inspired to defend our top seed.”

The tournament runs November 6-8 in St. Louis. In a season already marked by one great first, the ’Cats will
look for the first NorPac Conference Championship in school history.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

In a recent 2-0 loss to Appalachian State last Wednesday, Sarah Nolan ’05 recorded 13 saves. While it was a
busy night in net for the goalie, the truly outstanding fact is that Nolan now holds the school record for
single-season saves at 191. Nolan shattered the previous total of 178, set by Sara Gebhardt in 1997. In fact, she
currently ranks second in the nation in saves, a highly impressive feat. Nolan is a large part of the reason
the field hockey team received a No. 1 seed in this week’s NorPac tournament.
