12 ‘Cats finish road trip with win over Western Carolina, loss to Wofford
By Matt Garfield, Editor

Two steps forward, one step back. That’s one way to sum up the men’s basketball team’s progress on its three-game road trip over the past eight days. The Wildcats (12-7, 6-3) climbed into second place in the SoCon’s North Division with wins over East Tennessee State last Monday and Western Carolina on Saturday. But after Monday’s 98-82 loss at Wofford, they don’t have much breathing room. Davidson and ETSU each own 6-3 conference records, but the Wildcats own the tiebreaker advantage thanks to their victory over the Bucs last Monday.

The Wildcats used stifling defense and clutch shooting to secure Saturday’s win at Western Carolina. But against Wofford, defense was nowhere to be found.

Wofford 98 Davidson 82

SPARTANBURG—Two years ago when Davidson last played here, Wofford gave the Wildcats fits with deadly outside shooting and slashing drives to the basket. Two years later, same story. The Terriers raced out to a 52-30 halftime lead, then staved off a furious Davidson rally to earn a 98-82 win. Wofford shot 54 percent from the field, the first time in 57 games that the Wildcats allowed an opponent to shoot better than 50 percent. The last time it happened? Two years ago at Wofford, of course.

“Our defense was a no-show tonight,” said coach Bob McKillop. “That’s one of the most difficult things for me to say because we take such great pride in our defense.”

The Wildcats couldn’t stop seniors Mike Lenzly (26 points) and Lee Nixon (22 points), two athletic wing players who at times seemed several steps quicker than their defenders. For a few minutes, though, a Davidson comeback appeared possible. A three-point play by Terrell Ivory pulled the Wildcats to within 66-57 midway through the second half. But the Terriers quieted that 19-4 Wildcats run with a flurry of baskets of their own, and nine points was as close as it got.

“We just did not have the energy to get over the hump,” said McKillop. “When we got it to nine, we needed one more stop to get back in it. Plain and simple, we were just outfought tonight.”

Davidson 67 Western Carolina 57

CULLOWHEE—Matt McKillop hit only one basket in Davidson’s 67-57 win over Western Carolina on Saturday. It may have been the most important one of the game. With the Ramsey Center crowd on its feet and the Wildcats trailing 55-54 with 4:30 left, McKillop buried a straightaway three-pointer to restore a lead that Davidson had held most of the game. The Wildcats never trailed afterward, and another McKillop play—this time a steal with a minute left—sealed the win. It was their second victory over Western Carolina this season.

McKillop’s steal, off a Catamounts’ pass he deflected to teammate Ian Johnson, highlighted another gritty defensive effort from the Wildcats, who held Western Carolina to 33% field goal shooting. Matt McKillop’s steal clinched the WCU win.

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2003

BY Mike Gic10

Appalachian State vs. Davidson
Noon Belk Arena Fox Sports South

This is the Wildcats’ most important conference game of the year—and also the toughest. For starters, it’s the only televised home game of the year, with Fox Sports South set to broadcast to a regional audience. More importantly, it’s against the conference-leading Mountaineers, who are threatening to run away with the North Division. Appalachian State (15-5, 8-1) will remain in first place in the North regardless of Saturday’s outcome, but a Davidson victory could put the Wildcats (12-7, 6-3) within striking distance entering the stretch run. A loss would make it nearly impossible to catch up.

THE OPPONENT: The Mountaineers are the surprise team of the league. After posting losing records in each of the past three seasons, head coach Houston Fancher has developed one of the nation’s most potent offenses. Appalachian State’s 86.3 points per game ranks the Mountaineers second in scoring, behind only Duke. Point guard Shawn Hall (24 points per game) leads the attack. Last year he lit up the Wildcats for 17 points in a Senior Day 62-60 upset in Belk Arena.

CONFERENCE PICTURE: A loss to the Mountaineers could drop Davidson into third place in the North behind East Tennessee State—and make it nearly impossible to climb up to first. Finishing either first or second in the North Division is critical.for SoCon tournament play because the top two finishers in each division earn first-round byes, meaning they need only three victories instead of four to earn an automatic NCAA tournament bid.

Sports Editor

During an afternoon game against Western Carolina on Jan. 7, senior shooting guard Peter Anderer found himself in a familiar spot. Tucked away in the corner of the court just behind the three-point arc, he had just launched one of his many trifecta attempts on the season. These attempts, it should be noted, have an impressive tendency to fall through the net, as Anderer has shot 48 percent from downtown so far this season, placing him 20th in the nation.

This would be Anderer’s last shot for a while, however, as a Western Carolina defender undercut him as he released the ball. Anderer landed on his right hand, fracturing his ulna bone—putting that golden hand into another familiar place—a cast. Last year, in an unrelated injury, Anderer tore ligaments in that same shooting hand. “I’ve had my right hand in a cast for most of the year,” he lamented.

Anderer did not miss any time with that first injury, but the latter has forced him to sit out the past eight contests. As he will readily admit, Anderer is extremely anxious to get back on the court. “I just can’t wait to play again,” he said. The cast was removed on Monday afternoon before Anderer traveled with the team to Wofford. He will undergo a week of rehab and hopes to return at home against East Tennessee State on Feb. 16.

Anderer’s teammates are undoubtedly anxious for his return. His presence on the court has surely been missed. As he is quick to point out, however, his teammates have picked up the slack. The ’Cats have gone 4-4 in his absence, with close losses to Chattanooga (63-67) and VMI (60-61) shortly after his injury. They had come on particularly strong in recent weeks, with three straight victories before Monday’s loss to Wofford. “The guys have responded well,” Anderer comments. “That’s what’s so great about this team. We have a lot of guys who can step up and play.”

Freshman guard Matt McKillop was forced into a starting role when Anderer went down, and he’s done well over the last eight games. McKillop hit key three-pointers in last week’s win over ETSU, and Saturday night at Western. “Matt McKillop has been doing great,” Anderer said. “Like he showed against East Tennessee State, he can step up and hit the big shot when we need him to.” McKillop hit six three-pointers and scored a career-best twenty-four points in the contest.

With Anderer’s injury, the Wildcats have found themselves in yet another familiar situation, one from which they emerged triumphantly last year, when they won the Southern Conference and made the NCAA Tournament. The ’Cats played several games last year without their full roster, as star players Emeka Erege and Michael Bree went down with injuries at different points in the year. Anderer feels that the experience of playing without those players made that team stronger and contributed to the success of the squad in the Southern Conference tournament—when Bree and Erege again went down with injuries. “This situation is a lot like last year’s, when we were forced to play some games without those guys,” he says. “I think we have a great shot at doing what we did last year and winning the Southern Conference tournament.”

The Davidsonian

THE WEEK AHEAD

Athlete of the Week: Robyn Flewelling ‘04

Major: Psychology

Flewelling hit a go-ahead jumper with 19 seconds left as Davidson upset second-place Western Carolina for the program’s 200th overall victory. Flewelling tied her career high with 15 points and added 10 rebounds en route to her first double-double.

Friday
Wrestling vs. Duquesne 7:30 p.m.

Saturday
Women’s Track and Field at Carolina Heels Challenge
Women’s Tennis vs. Belmont 9:00 a.m.
Men’s Basketball vs. Appalachian State 12:00 p.m.
Women’s Tennis vs. Queens University 4:00 p.m.
Women’s Basketball vs. Furman 6:00 p.m.
Wrestling at Gardner-Webb 7:00 p.m.

Sunday
Men’s Tennis Davidson Winter Classic vs. Charlotte, South Carolina All Day

Tuesday
Men’s Basketball at UNCG 7:00 p.m.
Women’s Basketball at Appalachian State 7:00 p.m.