5

Movie Review —

A Brazilian Masterpiece

copyright Miramax Films

Alexandre Rodrigues stars in Meirelles’ debut film

By Derek Lon
Arts and Living Editor

Had it been in English, “City of God” would be a movie that, after seeing it in the theater, we would immediately pre-order at Amazon. It’s in Portuguese, and, unfortunately, its foreign language status will keep audiences away. It is instantly likable, told from the very start with contagious enthusiasm. It’s a colorful movie complemented by music so energetic and editing so quick that the creators of “Requiem for a Dream” should be jealous, especially because “City of God” has substance beyond substance abuse. The story, as well as its intensity, demands our attention and respect.

Alexandre Rodrigues stars as Rocket. He lives in the titular Rio de Janeiro slum. The film follows him and his peers from childhood to young adulthood, from scenes of petty crime to mass murder. Matheus Nachtergaele, Seu Jorge, Firmino da Hora, Alice Braga, Phelipe Haagensen, and Jonathan Haagensen play the other principal roles. These young actors exhibit a naturalism that, in other gangster epics, is replaced by ethnic stereotypes.

“City of God” has all the nicknames, politics, and violence (and then some) characteristic of the gangster genre but without the glamour. Gangs, crime, and murder are not a way of life, but rather, the only way to live.

This film is not a fable. There is no moral, no message, no instruction for a response. Didacticism and sensationalism, thankfully, are absent. That’s not to say that “City of God” doesn’t involve the sensational; the events it depicts are extreme by their nature, and director Fernando Meirelles tells his fictional story like it could be, and then moves on.

For example, there is one scene in which a boy discovers murder. He finds pleasure in his killing, and therefore, he does it again. And again. Meirelles doesn’t linger on dead bodies or distraught loved ones. Instead, he shows the boy’s joy, the implications of his murders, and then he moves on with his story. To make a statement about death would be inappropriate. This is a movie about characters, but moreover, it is a movie about a place and how it works. In the City of God, death is not a place to dwell, and Meirelles knows that.

If anything, the film is frantic. It has been over a month since I have seen it, and still, certain scenes are fresh in my mind. I remember the moment when, to be initiated into a gang (i.e. to live), one boy must choose one of his friends and shoot him.

But the movie isn’t all violence, and I also remember those quieter scenes, such as the big going-away party, a day at the beach, and the first kiss. Meirelles’ film is not just important; it’s so ambitious in its story and style that its success on all fronts is nothing short of a miracle.

SB

copyright Miramax Films

Rodrigues and Alice Braga on the beach in Rio

Want to be included in Question of the Week? You’ve got one last chance. E-mail Chris at chschmader. He has the question. You give the answer.

ARTIST SERIES 2003-2004:

The Artist Series will welcome five artist groups to campus next year. The committee has contracts with Ailey II, Blaguards, Capacitor, Cashore, and T.S. Monk.

SCHEDULE OF EVENTS

DUKE FAMILY PERFORMANCE HALL
2003

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 19

T.S. MONK

T.S. Monk, son of jazz bebop legend Thelonious Monk, is a world-renowned jazz musician. T.S. blends the history of his father’s music with his own in this evening called Monk on Monk.

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 15 — A COUPLE OF BLAGUARDS

Called “hilarious” by the New York Post, this two-man play is packed with anecdotes from the McCourt brothers, Frank (author of Angela’s Ashes & ‘Tis) and Malachy. Based on the lives of two poor Irish children growing up in unimaginable surroundings, this play finds humor and beauty in EVERY circumstance.

2004

SUNDAY, JANUARY 25 — AILEY II

Ailey II is one of the most popular and critically acclaimed dance companies in the United States. Having grown and developed from its origins in 1974 under the personal direction of Alvin Ailey, the smaller Ailey II represents the best of its founder and director.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13 — CAPACITOR

Capacitor was called “ingenious” by the New York Times as it boasts a wide variety of dance and multi-sensory movement involving performance pieces focused on the body and soul as they interact with technology. A combination of dance, mime, acrobatics, and pure motion beyond words!

SATURDAY, SUNDAY APRIL 3, 4 — CASHORE MARIONETTES

Cashore has been highly praised as one of the most skillful marionette performances to date—produced and put on by Joseph Cashore. The movement alone will exceed your wildest dreams about a puppet, but the beauty of crafting of the marionettes is alone unbelievable.