The best of IF

Here’s a “greatest hits” compilation of some of the most eye-catching campus crimes of the semester.

GNVines POLICE BLOTTER

4/11 Alcohol Violation Patterson Court
Known student was transported to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center with injuries sustained after falling off his scooter. Student was underage and very intoxicated.

3/30 Alcohol Violation/Urinating in Public Residence Halls
Identified student was seen urinating out of the second story window of a residence hall. Student was also in possession of alcohol when under the age of 21.

2/03 Patterson Ct/Fraternity House Larceny
Unknown person(s) removed a gingerbread house from the refrigerator and presumably ingested it without permission. Total loss is $10.

11/09 Martin Ct. Outside Ryburn Alcohol Violations
Two students received alcohol violations when officers observed one of them having a difficult time standing up. Upon seeing the officers, the intoxicated student tried to run away, but the chase was short-lived, as he fell on his rear.

10/21 West Dorm Laundry Larceny
Unknown person(s) removed three pairs of jeans without a trace.

10/06 Turner House Larceny/Damage to Property
Unknown person(s) pried open refrigerator and removed beer from within.

4/25 Martin Ct. Damage to Property
Known students were diving into holly bushes causing approximately $800 worth of damage to them. Students were referred to Dean’s Office for disciplinary action.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety.

Gulliver the Squirrel, the self-admitted perpetrator of several acts of campus vandalism, was caught red-handed with stolen acorns. The vandal blames inhumane treatment of fellow animals for his actions.

Trip to PRIDE festival and film showings highlight big year for organization

GEORGIE AHRENDT Dyslexic Beat Reporter

The undertakings of the Gay-Straight Alliance, or SGA, have been numerous and impressive this year. The SGA has been very active on campus for the past two semesters and boasts a membership of over 50 people—the highest in the history of SGA.

The first meeting began with the adoption of a new constitution, which created officer positions. Matt Talbert ’05 was elected President. Also elected were Vice President Sarah Parker ’05, Secretary Margaret Megerian ’04, and Treasurer Annie Wadman ’06.

SGA kicked off the school year with a trip to the Durham PRIDE! Festival, which was soon

Marsicanoville, from page 1
up the new Chambers gallery, except during exams. “If those tree limbs started to come down, oh boy would we be in a pickle,” Vagt said. “So we decided we’re going to clear the front lawn of all trees,” to eliminate the risk.

Justin Neill ’06 and Patrick Walsh ’06 indicated they were just glad to have the housing. “I did not want to live down the hill,” Neill said. “There was no way. If it means using a chamber pot when it’s ten below freezing to avoid that, then so be it.” Neill hoped he would be able to shower at least once a week on his girlfriend’s hall or in the Union. “It’s so convenient, if you think about it,” Walsh said. “I mean, Chambers is right there, and JustinWorks in Sloan, which is like twenty yards away. Joel’s is even in sight from our dorm. It beats just getting handed a tent, which was the last thing they told us.”

Marsicano said there were no plans to make the temporary housing substance-free. “If some of our down-on-their-luck students turn to the bottle to make it through the rough times, so be it. As long as the housing remains in good condition, I don’t foresee a problem.”

Marsicano said she was in the process of hammering out an arrangement to have an alarm cowbell installed at the request of the town’s Fire Chief. “He was concerned that the housing was rather flammable and many students were going to be studying by candlelight,” Marsicano said. “So we’re going to have procedures in place to alert students to any emergencies. We’ll also be reinforcing the Stop, Drop, and Roll fire safety lessons learned in elementary school.”

Followed up with several movie showings and other projects. The Davidson Gay and Lesbian Film Festival presented to the campus “The Laramie Project,” “Get Real,” “Lost and Delirious,” and “But I’m a Cheerleader.” Tonight, the SGA will be showing “Hedwig and the Angry Inch” in the 900 Room in the Union. Free Chinese food will be provided.

The SGA has also spent time making visits to Charlotte’s Time Out Youth, which is a group for gay, lesbian, bisexual, and questioning youths. The organization has also made headway in more obvious ways. No one could miss the luminaries shining all over campus in memory of those who have died of AIDS on National AIDS Awareness Day. The SGA has also participated in the National Day of Silence, which consisted of not speaking for an entire day as a symbolic reference to “closeted” gays, lesbians, and bisexuals. A recent project has been the Gender Resource Center’s Human Nature, which consisted of a performance written by Talbert and John Frye ’06.

Wait... is this supposed to be the GSA article? Damn those acronyms.

Trantham, from page 1

Mous goldfish prank of animal cruelty. I’ve killed more goldfish in my time than these girls ever will. Hell, I got another one in middle school and killed that poor sucker too. Maybe this prank was a little over-the-line. But most really good practical jokes are.”

Trantham on doing laundry: “Trantham Sree tlciced a sexist, let it be known that I’m comfortable doing other household chores such as cooking and taking out the trash. I’ll even get my own beer when the game is on. I really don’t think asking to have my laundry done is asking for much. There is little hope of me becoming a post-graduate Davidson success story if I have to clean my own clothes.”

Trantham on turning 21: “The truth of the matter is—if you can remember your 21st birthday party, then you wasted the last good birthday you’re ever going to have. I can remember my 21st. I had a test the next morning, so I couldn’t really celebrate the way I should have. Thanks Davidson.”