12 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2003

Looking Ahead: Wildcat Football 2003

Pair of new QBs misfire in opening loss to Wingate
White, Cook sacked 10 times behind injury-plagued offensive line

By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

For the first time ever, fans, players, and coaches got to enjoy classic Davidson football at Richardson Stadium under the
lights. Over 3,600 fans were in attendance to see the ’Cats struggle to a 22-10 loss to Wingate in what
was the season opener for both teams.

Without much offensive bite for the majority of the game, the ’Cats relied on some opportunistic defense, albeit one that
allowed nearly 300 yards rushing. The “D” forced a fumble, intercepted a pass, and forced a turnover on downs all
within the Davidson 35, preventing the Bulldogs from delivering that crushing blow.

Arguably, though, the ’Cats used the game as an exhibition for their two relatively inexperienced quarterbacks to duel it out.
Both finished six-for-17 on the day with Tom Cook ’06 grabbing two interceptions. Damion White ’05 started the game and
struggled early, completing one of six passes in the first quarter. He didn’t settle in until late, completing five of
his last eight passes.

Cook took the opposite route, starting strong midway through the third quarter after limited play in the first half. After
two mediocre drives, Cook took the ’Cats on their longest drive of the evening, going 48 yards in nine plays,
culminating in a seven-yard touchdown run by John Leverett ’04. The drive, helped by a 15-yard pass interference penalty, saw
Cook passing and running, just making it to the chains on a busted third-and-19 play.

The deficit cut to 12-10, the rejuvenation of the squad was short-lived as pass protection broke down and the offense
stagnated once again. The next four possessions ended in a fumble, two interceptions, and turnover on downs, respectively.

“There was no consistency on offense,” commented Head Coach Mike Toop. “Our biggest problem was decision-making, forcing throws to the
wrong read.” As for who may get the starting spot, Coach Toop feels “[it’s] just going to depend on who’s
hotter at the time. Neither was tonight.”

With left tackle Ken Franklin ’04 out with a broken ankle and left guard Ryan Arnold ’06 leaving the game
early with a sprained ankle, the young offensive line was visibly depleted by the end of the game, giving up
six of 10 sacks in the quarter and forcing Cook to scramble for his life on a regular basis. “We
had freshmen playing like freshmen, first-time starters playing like first-time starters. That’s how it goes,” Toop said.

A bright spot offensively, if any, was the rushing game. Leverett ran for 109 yards on 21 carries, looking strong
at the start and end of the game especially. But with the inconsistencies in the passing game, fans had to
witness 11 of 17 drives halt at less than 20 yards. “We had random spurts - running well in spots
- but we were never able to execute from a protection standpoint,” said Toop.

Aside from the forced turnovers, the defense, led by Mixon Robinson ’04 with 10 tackles, didn’t look too much better.
Wingate tailback Antonio Hailstock ripped through the defensive line as if it was a pregame banner, totaling 192 yards on
34 carries in addition to a 61-yard touchdown catch from Quarterback Stuard Card for the first score of the game.
Midway through the second quarter, the Bulldogs struck again, taking from the Wingate 30 after Davidson’s turnover on downs.Downs, a
39-yard quarterback rush brought them down near the red zone, where the defense stiffened up and held them to a
field goal, making it 10-0. On Davidson’s last drive before the half, disaster struck again. With the ’Cats pinned on
the goal line following two consecutive sacks, Wingate blocked the punt attempt by Chris Costello ’04 with 23 seconds left
in the half. It was astutely recovered by Jordan Sundheim ’06 for a safety, preventing the touchdown and making the
halftime score 12-0.

The ’Cats came out of the locker room fired up. Mark Wilkerson ’06 recovered a fumble on the first play
of the second half, putting the ’Cats in prime field position. An illegal block penalty set them back, though, and
they settled for a 45-yard field goal by Costello, cutting the deficit to 12-3. After the Davidson touchdown drive, the
Wingate returner split through the Wildcat special teams, where kicker Brian Scott ’06 had to make the touchdown-saving tackle. The
“D” couldn’t stop the Wingate offense, and a series of runs led them into the end zone for a 19-10
lead. As the offense fought to pull closer, an interception and ensuing field goal acted as the dagger in the
heart for the Wildcats, as the Bulldog team outplayed them in the final moments.

“Wingate outplayed us in all three aspects of the game—offense, defense, and special teams,” commented Toop. “Normally, if you get
four turnovers, you can win the football game, but coughing up three late usually loses it for you. As much
as we struggled early, it was 12-10 with 12:32 left. They just executed better than we did at the end.”

---

VMI vs. Davidson
1 p.m. Richardson Stadium

LAST WEEK: VMI lost to Navy 37-10. It was the Keydets’ first game against a I-A opponent since they played
Navy in 1997. Redshirt freshman quarterback Jonathan Wilson, playing in his first college game, completed 16-of-28 passes for 165 yards
and one interception. His longest pass of the day was a 25-yard pass to Zohn Burden in the third quarter
that set up VMI’s lone touchdown. Sophomore running back Sean Mizzer led VMI on the ground with 77 yards on
17 carries.

LAST SEASON: VMI topped Davidson 41-16 in Lexington, Va., last season, racking up 550 yards of offense. The Keydets finished
the season with a 6-6 record, their best since 1981. However, the team lost 15 of 22 starters on that
team, including quarterback Joey Gibson.

WHAT TO EXPECT: It could be a long afternoon for this young Wildcats team. The Keydets aren’t as experienced or
talented as last season, but VMI is still a scholarship program, and that makes a big difference. Improved quarterback play
is crucial if Davidson is to keep the score close.

---

The Davidsonian

---

Nick Hansell ’04
Men’s Soccer
Hometown: Columbia, S.C.
Major: Physics

Hansell scored Davidson’s first and only two goals of the season against College of Charleston on Saturday. His efforts were
enough to secure the 2-1 victory for the ’Cats in their season opener.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Nick Hansell scored the first goal of the men’s soccer season on a nifty play: After John Latting beat two
defenders coming out of the back, he fed Hansell at the top of the box. Hansell lost the ball momentarily
but quickly regained control with a spin move around a defender. He then evaded a falling defender to set himself
free in the box. One-on-one with the keeper, he tucked the ball near post for the first tally of the
season. The Wildcats would add another goal and emerge with a 2-1 win.
