. ARTS <

By SARAH ROBINSON
Special Contributor

Two Davidsonians have transformed a classic literary and pop-culture figure into a musical. “Frankenstein: the Rock Opera” began as nothing more than trying to make a regular English assignment more interesting. Justin Perkinson ’01 and Ty Morse ’04 now have a complete piece of musical theater on their hands. Morse and Perkinson, along with Jon Greenlee, have turned their one-time English project into a full-scale retelling of the classic tale, blending modern and classic and creating an eerie world, trapped between reality and nightmare.

Trying to remain true to Shelley’s words, the three have followed the original story with an accuracy not always seen in adaptations, while also adding a new interpretation to the tale. Beyond the script, the costumes will be period, and the set will establish the scene of mystery, murder, and intrigue with its surrealistic design.

Because of his commitments as theater department chair, Professor Joe Gardner ’69, the show’s artistic director, initially did not have time to pursue production of “Frankenstein.” He was approached again seven months ago. “When I listened to the music, I had a good feeling about it,” says Gardner and he proposed the show to the department as the main-stage show for the fall. The past summer was spent scoring and preparing “Frankenstein” for the stage. Gardner respects the authors and has contributed his experience and skill as designer and director to help the show move from a story on compact disc to a theatrical production on stage.

Hanley Smith ’07, one of the sixteen cast members, sees the show as a great way to “not just be involved, but to be creators and it’s pretty darn cool.” As part of the ensemble, she and other ensemble members will not get a break during the show. Smith will go from being a dead person to mob person to sailor and finally, to Ernest, Victor Frankenstein’s younger brother. The importance of the ensemble has made the show a significant event for her, stating “everyone is very aware of being a part of something bigger.”

Barratt Park ’06, who plays Frankenstein’s father Alphonse, observes, “this play is neater than other movies, because it focuses on the monster’s feelings.” Abandoned by his creator, the monster faces the harsh reality of the world as his master and the world reject him. Receiving compliments of his kindness from a blind man, the monster is kicked out of the house upon the arrival of the man’s children. The disdain of society, based on his looks, ostracizes the monster, forcing him to confront Frankenstein and demand a mate.

Gardner cites the interesting contrast between the scientist who lives in his head and his monster. The monster, in emotion and knowledge, is like a child and asks the question “Why am I here?” that Frankenstein cannot answer. Frankenstein’s toying with life and death brings consequences unimaginable as the show reaches its climax.

“All the ingredients are there: to have parents there, to witness what was created by students like their children, to me, would be enormously satisfying,” says Gardner when observing the occasion for Davidson students to bring their families to the show over family weekend. The production serves as a great opportunity to tie Davidson students of yesterday to the Davidson students of today. The new production provides Davidson with fresh, modern music set to an old tale, one that questions the morality of life, death, and the in-between. With set designs to admire, a cast eager to perform, and the writers at hand, “Frankenstein: the Rock Opera” is an ideal attraction for Family Weekend 2003.

This week in Tyler Tallman Hall...
Thursday, September 11: Duo Piano Recital: Cynthia Lawing and Gloria Cook, Tyler Tallman Hall, 8 p.m.
Sunday, September 14: Chamber Music Concert, Tyler Tallman Hall, 8 p.m.
Tuesday, September 16: Musical Interludes: Music at Lunchtime! Tyler Tallman Hall, 12:30 p.m.

Although we pass the largest manmade lake in North Carolina almost every day, not many people know what Lake Norman really has to offer. Lake Norman was formed as a result of the construction of the Cowans Ford Dam built by the Duke Power Company to generate energy for the greater Charlotte area. The lake’s surface area is 32,510 acres with 520 miles of shoreline. In 1962 Duke Power Company donated 1,328 acres of this land to form the Lake Norman State Park, maintaining thirteen miles of shoreline. Lake Norman State Park provides a recre-National center for boating, hiking, fishing, camping, and mountain biking. There are various campsites at $12 per day that include tent pads, picnic tables, and grills limited to six people at each site. For avid fishermen, the park not only has access to Lake Norman fishing but also contains its own, smaller lake within the park grounds. The fish found in the Park Lake include crappie, bluegill, yellow perch, and bass, and state fishing regulations must be upheld. The NC Wildlife Resources Commission Regulations can be found at ncwildlife.org. 

For mountain bikers, the 4.2-mile-long Itusi Trail is a single-track trail through pine and hardwood forests. The trail is designed for both beginners and intermediate riders and will soon be lengthened to 10 miles. The Itusi Trail is also open to hikers, while an additional hike in the Park is the 6.7-mile Lake Shore Trail. This trail runs along the shoreline at a moderate hiking level and begins at the parking lot for the group camping area. The Short Turn Trail just past the trailhead will take you on a 3.9-mile hike. 

For a packed lunch or evening cookout, there are two picnic areas that include tables, grills, and drinking water. A designated swimming area and beach can be found next to the southernmost picnic area. Access to the park and designated parking areas are free of charge, yet camping is by permit only. Camping permits are available from the Park office between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. on weekdays. 

To get to Lake Norman State Park from campus, take I-77 northbound to exit 42. Travel north on US 21 to Troutman and turn left onto Wagner Street. State Park Road will be on your right. Park hours: September - 8 a.m. until 8 p.m.; October - 8 a.m. until 7 p.m.; November through February - 8 a.m. until 6 p.m. For more information, call (704) 528-6350.

---

Slapstick one-act this weekend

By STEVE KALISKI
Staff Writer

Even though the 2003-04 Davidson theatre season does not officially debut until “Frankenstein: The Rock Opera” makes its splashy world premiere in late October, drama bugs can satisfy their performance itch as soon as this week, when the slapstick children’s one-act “My Client Curley” takes to the stage. This short play, written by Norman Corwin, provides enough broad humor to satisfy kids of all ages and enough brilliantly understated throwaway dialogue to delight the most jaded college student.

“Curley,” an exact stage replica of a 1940s radio broadcast, tracks the shocking success of a dancing caterpillar who captures the imagination of the entire country. While walking one day, a struggling agent (Steve Kaliski ’07) stumbles across Stinky (Ryan Hastings ’05), a co-dependent, harmonica-playing young boy who recently discovered that his new pet caterpillar named Curley likes to boogie to the sounds of the classic Nat King Cole song, “Yes, Sir, That’s My Baby.” With the help of the salivating news media, the agent and Stinky join forces to make Curley a cultural icon.

Featuring energetic ensemble work from Catie Cunning ’07, Paige Mattox ’07, Gardner Rordam ’07, Hanley Smith ’07, and Annie Wadman ’06, “Curley” bounds along for a light, fast-paced half hour of entertainment. This show also marks the effort of student director Melanie Farmer ’06 to respond to the high demand for children’s entertainment at Davidson. After tremendous success with last year’s production of “Jack and the Beanstalk,” Farmer arranged independently to produce “Curley” as a warm-up show for the new school year. With the assistance of stage manager Dan Coslett ’05 and the support of the theatre department, she worked quickly and tirelessly to assemble all of the elements of the show. The cast and crew began rehearsals on August 31, leaving less than two weeks to prepare “Curley” for an audience. This taut scheduling allowed for participants to audition without conflict for “Frankenstein” and the November production of “The Complete Works of William Shakespeare (Abridged),” directed by Hastings.

“Curley,” to be performed in the Cunningham Black Box Theater, will include such twists as interactions between the actors and a special children’s section in the audience. Show times are this Friday at 7 p.m., Saturday at 10:30 a.m., 2:30 p.m., and 4:30 p.m., and Sunday at 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. Tickets are on sale at the union for $2 for students and $3 for adults.

---

Movie Extras/Models Needed
No Experience Required
All looks and ages
Earn $100 - $300 a day
1-888-820-0167, ex. U260

---

1-800-648-4849 / www.ststravel.com