Photo by Eron Earley-Thiele

Wildcats lacrosse player Lindsey Frank confronts a recent opponent.

Lacrosse still searching for elusive first victory of season

By SARAH NOLAN
Staff Writer

If you want to use statistics to discuss the 2003 Davidson lacrosse team, you might be tempted to start off with its current record of 0-7. There are a few other stats, however, that need to be mentioned. First, out of the 16 games that the ’Cats will play this season, eight of them are against teams that are currently nationally ranked by the Intercollegiate Women’s Lacrosse Coaches Association (IWLCA). These include upcoming games against Ohio State University (#17), Vanderbilt University (#15), Northwestern University (#20), University of Notre Dame (#12), and Duke University (#4). Also, the conference that the Women’s Lacrosse team is in, the American Lacrosse Conference, is made up of seven teams, five of which are nationally ranked.

This tough competition, combined with the fact that the team is made up of sixteen underclassmen and only six upperclassmen, says much more about the lacrosse team than any record could. Recently, the Wildcats took on George Washington University here at Davidson and Johns Hopkins University (#19) and the College of William and Mary on the road. The George Washington game turned out to be a heartbreaker for the ’Cats, as they carried the game through the pouring rain only to lose after six minutes of overtime, with a final score of 6-5. Highlights of the game included three goals coming from Brandon Jacob ’05, including her first collegiate goal. Loren Seaton ’03 and Becca McDevitt ’03 each added a goal and Eloise Grose ’06 had an assist on one of Jacob’s goals. The Davidson defense held their opponents scoreless for 40 minutes and was led by goalie Becca Nussbaum ’04, who faced 31 shots and recorded 16 saves.

This past Friday night, the team met Johns Hopkins for their second conference match of the season. The team collected an impressive 27 ground balls and had 11 shots against the nationally ranked Blue Jays. Whitney Diefendorf ’05 put away two goals, one of which was assisted by Grose, putting her at seven goals on the season. McDevitt also netted one, bringing her to five for the season. Seaton had two goals, one of which was assisted by Grose, and Grose had a goal assisted by Seaton. Nussbaum had another stellar performance in the cage with 15 saves and a team-leading six ground ball pick-ups.

From Baltimore, the ’Cats traveled to Williamsburg to face William and Mary. Davidson didn’t get onto the scoreboard until ten minutes into the second half when Heather Green ’05 assisted Grose for a goal, followed by a goal from Jacob. Missy Gilbert ’06 had a standout performance, including a forced turnover and ground ball pick-up that she turned into her first, and unassisted, collegiate goal. The team combined for 25 ground ball pick-ups and 14 shots. Nussbaum put her career saves over the 500 mark with 12 more against the Tribe.

While the lacrosse team has yet to take home its first victory, the players have recognized what needs to be done and have in no way given up on their season. Millie McKeachie ’05, a key attacker this year, said, “We’re working on pulling our individual talents together because everyone on the team is doing great things, and we’re just not always on the same page. This only comes with experience, and I’m sure that things will click within the next few games.” Similarly, Jacob commented, “I feel like we learn something new every game, and eventually this knowledge will lead to a win.” Veteran Allison Matlack ’03 agreed with her teammates and stated, “We have the fundamental skills, now it’s just a matter of feeling comfortable and taking good risks on offense and defense.” McKeachie added, “The rest of this season and next year we’ll look to upset some of those top teams, and it will happen.”

The next opportunity to see the ’Cats try to make it happen is on April 4th at 5:00 p.m. on the turf field.

Track opens outdoor season

By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

The Davidson track teams sprinted out to a good start to the outdoor track season these past two weekends, as they competed first at Elon and then in the gigantic Charlotte 49er Classic. This past week, more so than others, a few individuals really stood out. Greg Scott ’04 blew away his heat of the 1500m run, as did Jimmy Swansbrough ’03. Ben Gaspar ’04 ripped out a clutch 15:18.73 in the 5000m to place him 9th in the meet. In fact, all six Davidson runners in the 5k crossed the line in less than 16 minutes, which is quite a feat in itself. Scott, whose 3:57.31 was coupled with a 1:56.6 800m time, commented on his 1500m by saying, “I was hanging back for a bit, but nobody was taking off, so I said to myself, ‘If no one is taking...This race by the turn [on the second lap], then I will.’ At that point, I just said, ‘See ya suckers.’” Scott’s ninth-place finish overall was out of 85 finishers. Surprisingly, no one even attempted to compete, as Scott burst past the pack, extending his lead all the way to the finish. Swansbrough followed Scott’s race in similar fashion, bursting out early and pushing the pace all the way to the line. It was Swansbrough’s 3000m race the following day, however, that was most impressive. The 8:45.8 was good enough for eighth place and a spot on the Davidson all-time performer list. Gaspar’s impressive race complements the blazing 8:45.46 3000m race that he completed at the Elon Invitational. Come conference time, it will be a tough choice of which to go with, if not just both. “It’s exciting to get off to this kind of start. We’ve got a long way to go, though, so it’s important for the whole team to keep focus and to continue to train hard,” said Gaspar.

Meanwhile, in the field events, triple jump specialist Thomas Headen ’04 showed great effort as he stretched his jump to 12.99m. That’s a grandiose 42.7 feet, for those who can’t do the math. As for the ladies, Anna Brew ’05, put out a 10:29.57 in the 3000m run, earning 13th place out of 55 finishers. Kim Pierre ’05 also put up some good numbers for the women. Her 10.27m put in the shot earned her 14th place in addition to an 18th place discus toss of 33.14m. “At this point in the season, perspective is key,” commented Brew. “The Southern Conference Championships seem far away right now, but it’ll be the end of the season before we know it.”

At the Elon Invitational the week before, the teams were greeted with some nasty weather conditions, which is hard to believe at the moment with this week’s blue skies. The smaller meet size, compared with this past week’s event, allowed Davidson athletes to battle for top spots. Several ’Cats even won their events. Among those was Carolyn Mohr ’06, who sprinted away with a win in the 3000m run for the women’s team. Her time of 11:20.29 led the eight-woman field. “I ran with the front of the pack for the first mile and a half or so,” commented Mohr, “then I made my move and finished strong.” Brew raced to second in both the 800m run and the 1500m. For the men, many of whom ran events other than their specialties in an attempt to differentiate their training, Greg Scott ’04 placed 2nd in the 400m dash and 4th in the 3000m run with times of 52 flat and 9:03.42. Four ’Cats even hauled in first-place finishes, with Mike Anselmo ’06 and Josh Stiff ’06 taking the shot put and high jump, respectively, and Joe Crowe ’05 earning the ‘W’ in the 5000m run. Johannes Norling ’04 also raced to victory, coming through the 400m hurdles in 1:00.08. Commented Gaspar on the meet size, “Although it was nice to win some races, ideally, it’s nice to race against the higher competition like that at UNCC.”

Coming up this weekend is the Fourth Annual Irwin Belk Invitational, hosted by the Davidson track team.

Golf places 16th in field of 21
Dillon paces squad with career-best three-day total 224
By Lewis PERRY
Staff Writer

The Davidson golf team finished 16th in the Furman Intercollegiate Golf Tournament, which was held from March 21-23. The Wildcats finished third out of six competing Southern Conference teams. Furman, the host of the event, placed second, and Wofford placed eighth. Virginia Tech won the tournament, shooting five over par as a team.

For the third straight tournament, Tim Dillon ’06 led the team in scoring. Dillon fired a three-day total of 224, which was a career best. In the second round, Dillon carded a 69, the lowest score of the day. Dan Koernke ’05 followed Dillon with a strong three-day total of 229. He also had a stellar second round by posting an even-par 72. Christian Davis ’06 finished a mere two shots behind Koernke, with a three-day total of 231. Captain Ben Friedell ’03 rounded out the top scorers for the Wildcats by shooting a 240 for the tournament. “We had a rough first and third day as a team, but we really showed that we can put it together after the way we played in the second round,” Koernke added. The team is focusing on how to card more rounds like their second, where they fired a 295. “Everyone is really putting in a lot of work, and we are all improving. We just want to be able to play at a high level,” Koernke said.

The next event for the Wildcats is the Bradford Creek Intercollegiate on March 28-29 in Greenville, N.C.

LIFEGUARDS AQUATICS WANTED!
We offer top pay, great incentives, and flexible hours.
Call Kim for an appointment: 704-665-7544