THE DAVIDSONIAN

Women’s b-ball starts fast, falters late, falls to UNCG

‘Cats lead entire first half, but Spartans score final 14 points of game

By Erin DELK
Staff Writer

Down 63-56 with 4:34 remaining in regulation, the UNCG women’s basketball team scored the final 14 points of the contest
to defeat Davidson 70-63 on Tuesday evening in Belk Arena. The victory was the Spartans’ (10-9, 6-5 SoCon) eighth straight
over the Wildcats (9-11, 4-7) dating back to 1999.

Sophomore Emily Callahan paced Davidson with a game-high 19 points, but only notched four in the final 20 minutes. Bethany
Schott added 13 points while junior Courtney Laird tallied a career-high five blocks.

Davidson never trailed in the first stanza. At the start of the second half, UNC Greensboro grabbed its first lead,
34-33, on a jumper by Shanika Jackson. Later in the half after four ties, the Spartans used five more Davidson
turnovers to key a 7-0 run to jump ahead, 51-44. From there, the Wildcats responded with a 19-5 stretch over
six minutes to go in front by a count of 63-56.

Davidson next plays host to Furman on Saturday at 6 p.m.

Davidson 64 Western Carolina 61

With the help of junior Robyn Flewelling’s second career double-double, the women’s basketball team earned their 200th win in program
history on Saturday afternoon in an exciting upset over Western Carolina, 64-61. The Catamounts are currently ranked second in the
Southern Conference, and the loss ended Western’s four-game winning streak. As Ashley Hallsted ’04 remarked, “It was a great conference
win on the road, especially since Western had been undefeated on their home court.”

Despite the tough opponents and the heckling fans, Davidson did not let the atmosphere affect them, and they recorded their
second straight conference win. Western took the early lead in the first half, but Davidson regrouped and slowly chipped away
at the lead to go into the locker room up 31-28. Less than a minute into the second period, baskets
by Flewelling and Emily Callahan ’05 extended Davidson’s advantage to eight. The Catamounts fought back and regained the lead, 42-41,
with 13:35 left. Throughout the next ten minutes, Western Carolina stayed in control and built a lead as large as
six. With the Wildcats trailing 59-55 with 3:19 left in the game, Callahan’s three-pointer brought Davidson to within one. “The
game could have gone either way at the end,” she said, “but as a team, we played better than they
did down the stretch.”

After a free throw by Bethany Schott ’03 knotted the game at 59, Courtney Laird ’04 connected on a jumper
from the near elbow with 1:02 left, pushing the ’Cats ahead 61-59. Western’s Tiffany Hamm then connected on a leaner
to tie the game at 61. Davidson quickly moved the ball up the court and, as Flewelling recounts, “I kicked
the ball in to Bethany, my player helped down on her, and she made a great kick out to set
up the shot.” It worked - the open Flewelling drained the two-pointer and put Davidson up 63-61. The Wildcat defense
then forced one of the sixteen Western Carolina turnovers off of an inbound pass with four seconds left to set
up a Hallsted free throw, which sealed the victory.

While Flewelling insists that the win came from team defense, which “remained really strong throughout the night, in particular Courtney
Laird’s ability to block and alter many of their shots,” her teammates give her more credit. Lindsay Shade ’04 praised
Flewelling for her “amazing floor game. While playing 33 minutes and only committing 3 turnovers, Robyn had 15 points, 10
rebounds, 5 assists, 2 blocks, and 2 steals. “She played so confidently and seemed to be everywhere,” Shade added. “Robyn
didn’t just lead the team statistically, but also mentally. Playing the point guard for the first time in her collegiate
career, Robyn was the general on the floor completely controlling the tempo of the game. Robyn played the best I
have ever seen her play in her basketball career here at Davidson.”

Sophomore Emily Callahan drives against UNCG on Tuesday.

The hockey team played four games in just over 18 hours.

Hockey boys stay busy on ice

By Ryan AUSTER
Special Contributor

The Davidson hockey team returned to action this past weekend to face off against local Atlantic Coast Roller Hockey Association
(ACRHA) rivals at the Charlotte Sports Center, playing four games in just over 18 hours. Matched up against Clemson in
the first of their four ACRHA sanctioned games, the Wildcats came out sluggish inthe first few minutes of play. Davidson
soon found its skating legs, however, and turned on the offense to grab a 3-1 lead at the end of
the first period. Freshman phenom Brent McCormick, despite the added hindrance of his pledge-ship, was able to tally three goals
in the game, while the heavyweight Voorhees managed to blast two slap shots by the Clemson goalie in Davidson’s eventual
8-5 win. With mixed results in the past, the Wildcats knew the game against South Carolina would be tough and
came out ready to play, outscoring their opponents 6-3 in the first two periods. Sunday morning began early for the
Davidson hockey players, as they faced off against NC State at the brutal time of 8 am. The scoring started
early, as senior Ryan Auster notched his second goal of the tournament less than 3 minutes into the first period
to put Davidson ahead, 1-0. This would be the last lead the Cats would see, however, as the NCSU skaters
soon showed why they were unbeaten thus far. The game ended in an agonizing 13-5 loss for the Wildcats, while
Kenner registered 18 saves in the early morning game. Facing Western Carolina in its last game of the weekend, Davidson
was determined to prove its previous performance to be a fluke and came out strong, scoring the first five goals.
After 36 minutes of play, Davidson had successfully manhandled their WCU opponents, 14-4, behind the strong skating of Julie Perry
and the spectacular goaltending of Kenner. Winning three out of four games on the weekend highlights the Davidson hockey team’s
development this year, as it was the team’s best performance to date.

Women’s tennis aims to build on last year’s success
By BRANDON JACOB
Staff Writer

Led by coach Caroline Price, in her 20th season of coaching, the 2003 Davidson women’s tennis team will seek to
build on a successful 2002 campaign in which they finished 18-7, 6-3 in the Southern Conference. This year’s team will
enjoy the benefit of the leadership of four seniors: captains Catherine Rainbow and Gayle Jones, along with Tere Grinsted and
Elizabeth Super. Said teammate Kelly Fillnow ’05 on the importance of the seniors, “Our four seniors each bring something unique
to the team and have been key role models through their hard work, their selflessness, their enthusiasm, and their desire
to take Davidson tennis to the next level.”

Despite this senior leadership, the Wildcat line-up remains young, with the top three spots on the ladder filled by sophomores.
Fillnow is expected to play at number one singles, and she is coming off of an extremely successful fall season
in which she was awarded the Doctor’s Vision Center Sportsmanship Award for her conduct on and off the court while
playing in a tournament up at UNC-Wilmington. Last year, Kelly was an impressive 17-6 at the number one position. She
looks to improve on last year’s all-conference performance with a year of experience under her belt. After being named to
the All-Southern Conference second team, Meggie Patterson ’05 looks to remain a strong second. Patterson is also coming off a
successful fall season, with big wins over girls from ACC teams Wake Forest and N.C. State. Patterson’s strength is found
in her consistency and her levelheaded nature on the court. Meghan Fillnow ’05 rounds out the Wildcat top three. Her
sharp fall season included a win over a challenger from UNC-Chapel Hill. Commented Patterson, “Meghan’s strong deep ball and volleys
will assure her of a successful 2003 campaign.”

Also looking to fill starting singles roles this spring will be Jones, Katherine Hatch ’04, Sarah Borkoski ’05, and Lindsay
Powell ’06. The doubles lineup is more up in the air, but look for a reprise of last year’s all-conference
performance by the Fillnows in the number one doubles spot. In a new pairing this season, Patterson and Powell will
fill the second spot, while a number of other girls could possibly fill the third and final spot. On the
prospects of this season, Grinsted commented, “We are more hungry as well as more mature, so I think we will
see more wins this season... The fall was solid and I think everybody came back in January eager to hit
the yellow fuzzies. There is a great intensity on the practice courts!”

Key matches this season will include those against the University of Richmond and conference rival Furman. The Wildcats will begin
their quest for the Southern Conference Championship this Saturday with a warm-up against Belmont Abbey at 11 a.m. and Queens
College at 4 p.m. at the Knoblock Tennis Center.
