2 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2003

"America’s Global Reach"

Several Davidson students will go head to head on American foreign policy issues on Sunday at 7:30 p.m. in the
900 Room. The Mini-“Debates” will include critics and supporters of the American stance. Following the student speakers, a forum will
be open to all interested.

"My Client Curley" premieres

The Davidson Theatre Department presents “My Client Curley,” written by Norman Corwin, this weekend in Cunningham Black Box on Friday
at 7 p.m., Saturday at 10:30 a.m., 2:30 p.m., and 4:30 p.m., and Sunday at 1 and 3 p.m.

POLICE BLOTTER

9/03 Union Cafe Larceny of cash
Unknown person removed cash that did not belong to them. Still under investigation.

9/06 Fraternity House Burglary/Arson
Unknown person(s) willfully entered a fraternity house and set a fire with the perceived intent to cause significant damage as
a result. Incident under investigation.

9/06 Fraternity House Arson
Unknown person(s) willfully set a fire to the rear of a fraternity house with the perceived intent to cause significant
damage to the house. Incident still under investigation.

9/06 Residence Hall Aid to the Ill
Known student transported to the hospital as a result of irresponsible ingestion of alcoholic beverages.

9/06 Patterson Court Damage to College Property
Unknown person(s) willfully damaged a light pole by breaking it off at the base. Estimated damage is $1200. Still under
investigation.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety.

West, from page 1

naming rights to the residence hall were still available by wryly suggesting the building could even be named after one
of them. To procure the naming rights to a building, a donor must give at least one-third of its cost.
In the case of West, Nelson and his wife Dottie gave $2 million in order to have their name on
the residence hall. The Tomlinsons made their donation because they desired a legacy for their family that would remain at
Davidson forever. Tomlinson hopes his grandchildren will someday attend Davidson and live in the dormitory that bears their name. McClintock
described another motivation of Tomlinson, saying “Nelson was partly inspired to make his gift because several other members of his
class had previously made generous contributions.” Like Tomlinson, the college also has plans to sell the naming rights to other
unnamed buildings on campus, such as Martin Court B and F along with the Student Health Center.

Students have expressed varied opinions in reaction to the name change and what they believe the dorm will ultimately be
called. “I haven’t heard any of the upperclassmen call it Tomlinson, yet,” said Chuck Ostendorff ’06. “Everyone is still calling
it West.” “I think there’s a good chance students might start calling it Tom,” mused Morgan Gregson ’06. “Kinda like
Richardson is shortened to Rich.” Either way, Vice President of College Relations Kristin Bradberry described the importance of the Tomlinsons’
donation, saying, “Donors such as the Tomlinsons enable Davidson College to provide its students with a high quality of life
and numerous advantages other national colleges and universities do not offer.”

Caterpillars: bountiful but benign
Plant says there’s no need to remove harmless critters

By Leslie HEMPSON
Staff Writer

This fall, some students have noticed a fairly large caterpillar population inhabiting the area around Belk and Richardson residence halls,
Vail Commons, and the Senior Apartments. The administrative department charged with caring for the college’s grounds and buildings, Physical Plant,
is occasionally asked to deal with campus pests, such as insects and rodents. Members of the Physical Plant staff assure
students that the caterpillars are causing no significant damage to nearby trees and bushes. Joy Cleary, Assistant Director for Grounds
and Landscape Planning, said that this year’s caterpillar population is somewhat higher than normal. She attributed the greater numbers to
numerous factors but cited increased rainfall as the most likely cause. The Biology Department largely concurred with her assessment, adding
that caterpillars go through boom and bust cycles which appreciably alter the population from year to year. Both agreed thatThe
two species of caterpillars on campus posed little threat to their environment. Although Cleary noted that the caterpillars were capable
of knocking down small tree limbs and partly defoliating trees, she stated, “It’s more of a nuisance than a threat
to the health of trees or anything.” Cleary explained that Physical Plant would consider taking steps to remove the caterpillars
only if they completely defoliated several brand new trees. In the meantime, her staff is sticking to a “live and
let live” policy, one that discourages them from utilizing chemicals to eliminate pests. Cleary said, “We really try to refrain
from using any chemicals in the landscape. That’s been our philosophy for years. It’s not cost-effective or environmentally correct.” Paradise
applauded this policy and expressed his displeasure that other similar organizations have adopted a “spray first, ask questions later” approach
to pests. He remarked, “I really like the way Physical Plant deals with pests. They really don’t do much of
anything until it becomes a problem.” He also stated that “natural predators like birds, wasps, and diseases or pathogens” would
eventually reduce the caterpillar population. Furthermore, the caterpillars will start to disappear from sight in mid-October when the region begins
to experience frost. In the meantime, Paradise advises students to leave the caterpillars alone. After all, more caterpillars now will
lead to more butterflies later.

Cat CUPPS cut down on trash, keep drinks cold
Gift from graduated EAC president aims to reduce waste
By Mat Tory Noses
Staff Writer

In addition to coffee mugs and Nalgenes, the EAC hopes students will soon notice Cat CUPPS on campus. Designed to
reduce waste, the large black mugs may be used in both the Union Cafe and Commons to hold fountain drinks,
coffee, or tea. Named for the acronym “Can’t Use Paper, Plastic, or Styrofoam,” the CUPPS were handed out by the
EAC during the first few days of classes. The EAC will mail the CUPPS to students who did not receive
one at that time. As an incentive for students to use the cups at the Union Cafe, drinks in a
Cat CUPP cost eighty cents whereas small drinks cost ninety cents, medium drinks cost $1.05, and large drinks cost $1.40
when served in regular disposable cups. Furthermore, the CUPPS can be used to carry drinks out of Commons after a
meal.

Brewton Brownlow ’03, last year’s EAC president, is credited with envisioning the existence of a reusable cup at Davidson. A
friend at Williams College gave Brownlow the reusable cup that is common on their campus as a gift. According to
Greg Harris ’04, this year’s EAC president, Brownlow often used the cup and as her “parting gift to the school”
she worked to create a similar cup for Davidson students.

In 2001, students were not allowed to use their own reusable cups in the Union because, as Dee Phillips, Director
of Dining Services, said, “it made it difficult for cashiers to charge appropriately and consistently with varying cup sizes.” However,
after being approached by Brownlow with the idea for a standard cup that could be used by all students, Phillips
enthusiastically gave her support. To fund the project, Brownlow gathered nearly six thousand dollars from private donations and various on-campus
offices.

Student reaction to the cups has been varied. Shelby Rooke ’07 says that she uses the cup every day for
coffee and likes that they are “completely microwavable.” In contrast, Steven Gentile ’06 reports that he doesn’t often use the
Cat CUPP because he doesn’t “normally carry cups like that.” However, Gentile did express interest in the cup, saying, “I
wish I had it more often.”

The EAC plans to electronically monitor the success of the cups in the Union Cafe. The first month’s data shows
that 472 drinks have been sold in the Cat CUPP, compared to 2549 other drinks sold. Harris said, “I hope
to see people months from now using the CUPPS in the Cafe.” He stated that the extended use of the
cups is a primary goal of the EAC. He added that ideally their use would also continue to rise.
