1/26 Patterson Ct. Student brought a glass bottle into a party.
1/26 Patterson Ct. Underage Drinking.
1/26 Patterson Ct. Underage Drinking.
1/30 Baker Sports Parking Lot. Total loss is valued at $26.
1/31 Patterson Ct. Underage Drinking.
2/4 Little Library Basement.
2/03 Total loss is $400.
2/02 Front of Vail Commons for disciplinary action.

Correction: The State of the Union viewing event in the 900 Room on Tuesday was not sponsored by the Young
Republicans. It was sponsored by ROTECT, an organization led by Leslie Thompson '04. Students affiliated with both the Republican and
Democratic parties attended the event.

Burglary/Forced Entry: Residence Hall. A student discovered that someone had cut the screen to his bedroom window and raised the
unlocked window. Nothing was removed from the victim’s room.

Alcohol Violation.
Alcohol Violation.
Alcohol Violation.

Larceny: Unknown person(s) removed a boom lift from the parking area without permission. Total loss is $400.

Alcohol Violation.

Larceny: Unknown person(s) removed a student’s CD when it was left on her book bag in the basement of the
library. When she returned for it the next day, it was missing. Total loss is $40.

Patterson Ct./Fraternity House: Larceny. Unknown person(s) removed a gingerbread house from the refrigerator and presumably ingested it without permission. Total
loss is $10.

Upper Satellite Parking Area: Larceny. Unknown person(s) removed a bicycle from the bike rack located on top of the victim’s
vehicle.

Damage to Property/Underage Drinking: Two students were observed throwing a brick at a light post, causing damage to it. Both
students were intoxicated and underage and have been referred to the Dean of Students Office.

Celebrity Spring Break brought to you by StudentCity.com! Book now and save up to $100 on all international trips. Party
like a rock star with MAXIM Magazine and Jackass’s Steve-O. Call 1-800-293-1445 for details, e-mail sales@studentcity.com, or book online at
www.studentcity.com.

By AME PATEL, News Editor

Now in its third year of existence, the Davidson Shooting Club has begun its own unusual tradition at the College.
An officially chartered student organization, the club dedicates itself to instructing beginners in skeet and trap shooting as well as
to providing practice at public ranges for more experienced shooters. However, students on campus have questioned its importance as a
vital part of college life. They assert that such an organization is one neglecting the dangers posed by guns. With
over 200 million firearms possessed in the United States alone, how useful is a shooting club?

Clinton Rickards ’04 said, “I do not think Davidson College should be promoting an activity that has been shown to
lead to violence.”

Eron Earley-Thiele ’04 founded the club three years ago after taking a PE shooting course through Davidson Outdoors. He finds
a different purpose. “Gun and shooting sports enthusiasts do not pose a threat to campus security,” he said. “We are
dedicated to practicing responsible shooting, with an emphasis on gun safety and education.” In accordance with this safety philosophy, guns
used by members are not allowed on campus.

Davidson’s history shows that this has not always been the case. Until the mid-1970s, every Davidson student—all men at that
time—took part in mandatory ROTC and was commissioned as an officer after graduation. Guns were naturally a part of their
training and lives at Davidson. Therefore, an indoor shooting range in what is now the computer lab of Belk did
not seem too unusual. While this location has been put to a different use today, the shooting club members now
make weekend excursions to a public range in Salisbury to sharpen their skills at skeet and trap shooting.

Skeet and trap shooting, both Olympic sports, involve extreme accuracy to aim at clay targets, imitating live birds, tossed into
the air. Dr. Scott Denham, Professor of German, has found the sports to be of value to the college community.
He taught the two sports as the PE course that initially inspired Earley-Thiele. “You come to...College is a place to
learn things you don’t expect,” he said. “[These sports] are an interesting option for students to have.” Together with fly
fishing, many jokingly consider skeet and trap shooting as the “cast and blast” division of Davidson Outdoors. However, Denham finds
the experience of shooting as vital and serious business. He said that “the controlled power of a gun is something
that demands respect and restraint.”

Learning about Recycling, from page 1

“The amount of perfectly good recyclables that were thrown away, and the amount of perfectly good non-recyclables that were thrown
away, disgusts me.” Katie Cashwell, a member of the EAC, said college students, and all Americans, have a special responsibility
to recycle. “As a college of great plenty in a nation of even greater wealth, we have an obligation to
be the global leaders in waste management and recycling.” The EAC is working to improve Davidson’s recycling efforts and, in
turn, improve all types of conservation and environmental awareness. Harris has proposed a school-wide aluminum policy that would be enforced
by Resident Advisors, PCC officials, and others. “The reason we are targeting aluminum in specific is because it takes a
lot of energy to mine and separate aluminum ore, whereas an aluminum can made from recycled cans takes a minimal
amount of energy,” he said.

College’s shooting club promotes safety, not violence

A shooting club member fires his weapon during a recent outing. This power can be an important experience.” Even with
what some view as these merits of the Shooting Club, negative images associated with gun culture turned many students off
from the club and the sports. Fliers of a bikini-clad woman holding a rifle caused many students to lose interest.
Megan Sparks ’06 said, “I probably wouldn’t have noticed if it wasn’t for the posters.” Added Erin Meyer ’06, “That
poster was disgusting and sexist.” Denham agreed that they gave “bad associations of gun culture.” The fliers were quickly taken
down but not without a clear impact on the student body—especially with the gender less likely to participate in the
first place. The image of guns and women are not the only ones in question. Many who associate shooting with
the stereotypical image of Southern pride in hunting and guns find a Davidson Shooting Club to be an unnecessary addition
to our campus. Meyer added with humor, “It makes me feel right at home. And not in a good way.”
However, Earley-Thiele claims, “skeet shooting is a fast-paced and stimulating sport; an excellent weekend diversion.” While concerned with societal implications
of guns, neither the Shooting Club nor Denham’s PE class want to draw from their main focus. Denham said, “While
safety is a primary concern, this is about a sport. It is a fun and different thing for Davidson students
to do.” The Davidson Shooting Club will continue to provide those interested in the sport with the necessary opportunities and
instruction, regardless of whether opponents feel Davidson students are of a higher caliber than those depicted by our gun culture.

While this proposal is in the preliminary stages, the EAC has already succeeded in promoting campus-wide participation in environmental preservation.
Barbara Zaionz, Assistant Coordinator of Building Services, has contributed to the campaign with a plan to install permanent recycling receptacles
in the stairwells of the newly renovated Chambers Building. Other members of the Davidson administration have also contributed to the
group’s efforts. The most important thing to remember, according to Harris, is that there is plenty of room for improvement.
Aside from recycling plastics, glass bottles and jars, aluminum cans, paper, and corrugated cardboard, the EAC also emphasizes that students
can make a difference by reducing the size of their waste and by conserving energy and water. “The students have
to pick it up,” said Harris. “The school has already spent $10,000. Now it’s the students’ turn.”
