John Wesley once said,

Do all the good you can,
By all the means you can,
In all the ways you can,
In all the places you can,
At all the times you can,
To all the people you can,
As long as ever you can.

Congratulations, David!
We know God has great things in store for you as you
continue your journey. We are all so proud of you!

Love, Mom and Dad,
Paul, Susan, and Veronica,
Maggie, Rafael, and Pete.

Strong foundation to grow.
David, you surpass expectations as we see you
become a self-assured young
woman. Know that our hearts burst with pride and
joy. We pray that you continue to be guided by your
dreams and always remember that mistakes are
opportunities to learn. Never forget the kindness you
have received here, for with these blessings, your time
here was made possible. Set aside quiet time every day.
Pray every day! Continue to strive for excellence and
know that ambition knows no moderation. Having an
education is different from using an education; we know you
are willing to work very hard, so continue to be willing to put the
time in, and in the end, you will not only live the life you love,
but love the life you live. God has blessed you with unlimited
talents, and with these talents, you will touch countless lives.
Actions make history, and in your short 21 years, you have
painted a masterpiece.
With all our love and infinite devotion,
Mom and Dad. XxxOOOO0OXXxx0000Xxxx000!!!

I remember when you were My Little Girl,
As much a part of me as my right arm.
My every breath and step held you in mind.
Then suddenly—one morning—you were grown.
I was not finished with you.
But, we must love our children enough to let them go.
But in my heart—you will always be
My Little Girl!
I am so proud of you and your accomplishments.
Ashley, congratulations and wishes for a wonderful future!
Love you,
Mom

THE DEAN OF
STUDENTS OFFICE
CONGRATULATES

THE CLASS OF 2003...

THANKS FOR ALL
YOU HAVE DONE
FOR DAVIDSON.

WE WISH YOU
THE BEST OF LUCK IN
ALL THAT IS AHEAD.

COME BACK
AND VISIT OFTEN!

The Senior Class Gift has reached 88% pledged
+ paid participation! Log on to
https://www.davidson.edu/giving to pay your
pledge. President & Mrs. Vagt donated $12,003
on behalf of the Senior Class Gift to the Annual
Fund because the Class of 2003 already reached
75% PAID participation. LET’S GO FOR A
SCHOOL RECORD - 90% PARTICIPATION!
Support Davidson and show your class pride!

- Senior Banquet: Dinner and fun with your classmates, April 30

- President’s Party for the Class of 2003: May 7,
Bobby’s backyard

- Senior Dinners, sponsored by the President’s
Office, continue throughout the academic year.
