10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Men’s soccer stung by 3-0 NCAA loss to Coastal Carolina

By Erin DELK
SPORTS
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2003

Wrestling program taking steps forward, but slowly

Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team’s brilliant season came to a disappointing end on November 21 as they lost in the first round of the NCAA tournament to Coastal Carolina, 3-0. Coastal attacked right from kick-off and scored two quick goals within the first seven minutes, leaving the Davidson team and its fans stunned. Davidson had shut out their past three opponents, so two goals in seven minutes was devastating.

An early Coastal corner kick that found their leading goal-scorer Joseph Ngwenya gave the Chanticleers their first goal 4:36 into the game. Less than two minutes later, Ngwenya struck again; his shot from Mubarike Chisoni’s cross drilled just past Davidson goalie Bart Creasman. As Jeff Davis ’06 stated, “their top players were some of the best we have ever played against.” Coastal’s blistering speed at both ends of the field left many Davidson players slipping and struggling to keep up.

15 minutes in, the ’Cats finally began to regain composure and play with confidence. A free kick from Cass Baltz ’07 found defender John Latting ’06, whose header hit the top post. Soon after, senior co-captain Justin Porter’s volley from another Baltz kick deflected over the goal. Davidson continued to have chances throughout the half, but could not finish. Coastal did not let up their offensive pressure, and in the 37th minute the Chanticleers connected for the third time on a cross. Davidson had a couple of other opportunities in the half, with one shot barely saved by a Coastal defender on the goal line.

As David Sartorio ’05 said, going into halftime “with that large of a deficit is almost impossible to overcome, especially if you do not score a goal within the first 10 minutes of the second half.” Despite the Wildcats not scoring, they had only three less shots than the Coastal team, and one more corner. The difference was Coastal’s ability to finish, and the inevitable psychological effect of being down two goals only seven minutes into the game.

Even though Davidson did not play as well as they could against Coastal or end up with the result they wanted, the fact that they were the first team in Davidson soccer history to win both regular season and Southern Conference tournament honors, in addition to reaching the NCAA tournament for the first time since 1995, “is a massive achievement for our program,” remarked head coach Matt Spear. “This year’s experience will aid us in the future.”

The game marked the end of five seniors’ brilliant contributions to the team: Nick Hansell, Keith Nicholson, Shihab Sugeir, Justin Porter, and David Peoples. “Our seniors have had incredible careers,” noted Spear. “That’s what we’re celebrating right now.”

photo by Peter Roady
Marco Antunez ’07 prepares to kick the ball against Coastal Carolina as Wildcat fans look on.

JAN 2-18
Everglades Canoeing (for everyone who’s already tired of winter)

JAN 3-6
Wilderness Advanced First Aid

JAN 5-11
Wilderness First ResponderJAN 23-25 Skiing at Snowshoe Mtn, WV (sign up now for the first trip of next semester!) Come visit and sign up for trips at D.O. in the basement of the Union.

By Ben WHIGHAM Staff Writer

Despite a rough showing against a highly touted Citadel team, the wrestling team appears much stronger than the ones that struggled through the past several seasons. The freshmen class has filled the roster and added a wealth of talent. Still, they have a long way to go. A recent showing at the Carolina Open reaffirmed the ’Cats’ improvement over the past seasons. Marcus Boyd ’07 placed higher in the Carolina Open than any wrestler in Davidson history. As a team, it was the best showing the ’Cats have ever made in the Carolina Open.

“Last year at this tournament we only won a couple of matches and didn’t,” said Matt Leonard ’06. “We had a few match-ups against UNC-G, and we seemed to have the upper hand in most of those matches,” said Drew Carey ’06.

Although Davidson has undoubtedly improved over past seasons, there are still elements of frustration lingering about the mats. Unless they amount to a substantially improved record, Davidson will probably be disappointed with this season. “We’re having a rough start,” said Matt Morris ’07, unsatisfied with the results of the team’s efforts so far.

A dual match against the Citadel served as a reminder of how far Davidson still has to go. Only Morris managed to earn points for the Cats, who fell to the projected conference champions 45-3. Coming off a 1-13 season, the ’Cats will probably need several years before taking a real shot against a conference champion.

This has been the only conference match so far. Much more wrestling is necessary to provide an accurate portrait of the ’Cats’ current state. In the meantime, there are still plenty of bright spots. “The freshmen are looking really good this year,” notes Ronnie Lofrese ’06. The young talent brings promise for future seasons. “I expect big things out of this team in the coming couple of years,” says Morris, predicting “dramatic improvement.”

The raised expectations and improved tournament showings have helped the general atmosphere surrounding Davidson’s wrestling program. “With competition rising in practice for starting spots, everyone is being driven to improve,” says Henry Blue ’06. This growing competitiveness can only help the ’Cats achieve their goals.

The Southern Scuffle, held between Christmas and New Year's Day, provides the ’Cats their next chance to register their progress.

---

Earn Extra Money
Spanish Tutor Needed

We would like to have a Spanish tutor come to our home once a week starting in January for a family of five to help teach us basic conversational Spanish. We will be happy to accommodate your schedule. Please call 704-591-3068.

---

Winter Waxing by Lajaye Esthetics
Now in the Lake Norman Area...

European Trained Linda Joye Shanaman
Atlanta’s most experienced and award-winning wax technician
Specializing in Brazilian Bikini Waxing

20823 N. Main Street, Suite 105
Heritage Plaza Highway 115
Next to Carolina Cones
Davidson - Cornelius
Appt. (704) 651-6668