14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Megan Hollar '06 was named CAA Rookie of the Year last spring.

New coach, skilled freshmen make big impact in first meet

By CHUCK OSTENDORFF
Staff Writer

The men’s and women’s swim teams began the new season this past weekend at Emory under new head coach Tim Kelly. The men lost 151-81, while the women did slightly better, losing 144.5-96.5. Despite the defeat for both teams on Saturday, records were broken and the team returned with goals for a successful year.

Eli Trefzger ’07 started the season on Saturday by setting a new Davidson record in the 1000 free with a time of 10:34.81, shattering the 10:37.38 set by Leisa Rossello in 1998. Commenting on her record, Trefzger said, “I am not focused on breaking records; instead, I am trying to swim at my best, both for the team and for myself.” She also came in first in the 500 free and second in the 200 butterfly.

2002-2003 CAA Rookie of the Year Megan Hollar ’06 swam for first place in the 200 I.M. and second in the 200 breast. Sarah Laws ’04 also took first in the 200 back.

For the men, captain Robert Koch ’04 took first place in the 200 free with a time of 1:48.36. Close behind Koch, Brad Poole ’06 finished third in the 200 free. Poole also scored for the team with his first-place finish in the 100 free. The men’s 400-yard freestyle relay team, consisting of Josh Stone ’07, Steve Tolson ’06, Adam Secrest ’06, and Koch, finished first with a final time of 3:20.46. Others scoring for the men included Jamie Hopkins ’07, with a second in the 200 breast, and Charlie Hunter ’04, taking third place in the 200 fly.

The captains this year are seniors Charlie Hunter, Michael Mazza, Robert Koch, Mary Ashley Cain, and Joanie Gidas. Transitioning into this season with a new coach, the captains will be an integral part of the success of their last year here. But they have no doubts about what their new coach will bring to the program. Coming from Purdue University, Tim Kelly has coached several NCAA All-Americans and led his team to several Big Ten Championships. As Cain explains, “Tim brings a fresh new perspective to the team. He is very enthusiastic and wants to take our team to the next level; he is asking a lot and getting a lot out of the swimmers. Everyone is rising to the standards he is setting, and I believe it will be our best year yet.”

Kelly’s focus on the individual in practices has proven to be helpful to the swimmers. Poole described this focus: “Tim writes up to five workouts for different groups in one practice. This allows everyone to train the way they need to train and focus on their specialty, which will hopefully translate into more wins this season.”

Both teams have a talented group of freshmen. According to Koch, “The freshmen are enthusiastic and dedicated swimmers. It is great to see the energy they bring to the team.” Part of that energy can be attributed to Trefzger. With a school record already in her books, and several meet records this past Friday in the annual Red/Black meet, she is one of the freshmen the team will be looking to for a big season. “I love the atmosphere the team has made in and out of practice,” she says.

The team has high hopes this season, one being a win against new CAA team College of Charleston. Concerning this meet, Koch predicts, “College of Charleston doesn’t have a chance. When we visit them on November 15, we are going for the win.” But first, the women will take...On Gardner-Webb on October 25, before both teams square off against Eastern Carolina on November 8.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2003

Morehead St. erases football’s Pioneer title hopes

White throws four interceptions, defense surrenders 442 yards

By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

Warning: no uplifting story here. The Davidson football squad just got beat. Morehead State wore out the ’Cats over the long haul and capitalized on five turnovers, four of which were interceptions thrown by junior Damion White, to take the game by a final of 35-10.

“We were just beat by a better football team,” said head coach Mike Toop. “They were better, and that was a fact. The game of football is about making plays, and they did that more than we did. Everybody continues to move the ball against us, and offensively, we never gave ourselves a chance to score with all the turnovers.”

This match was pivotal in taking the top ranking in the PFL South Division, and with the loss, Davidson is merely left with a feeling of “coulda, woulda, shoulda.” With three games left, they still have a chance to secure their sixth consecutive winning season, but after a hope-instilling homecoming match, settling for an above .500 record seems very anticlimactic.

Up until the 2nd quarter, Davidson matched Morehead point-for-point, but just before the half, the Eagles opened up a little bit of breathing room. Controlling the ball for much of the quarter, Morehead drove down the field on a 16-play, 84-yard drive that gave them the lead for good. They scored on a two-yard run up the gut and followed up a few minutes later with a couple of long passes to lock up the 21-7 halftime lead.

Davidson held tight, though, shutting out the tireless foe for the third quarter and even putting three on the board thanks to a record-tying 52-yard field goal by Chris Costello ’04, but mistakes proved even more costly in the fourth quarter, where the Eagles scored 14 unanswered points.

“You turn the ball over five times against that team, and you’ve got no chance to win — especially with the way we played defensively,” said Toop.

Even with the defense giving up the big play — Morehead racked up 442 total yards of offense — the Davidson offense was no help. White and QB Tom Cook ’06 combined to throw 39 passes with just 14 completions and four interceptions. Tack on the fumble, and there’s a hefty five turnovers the ’Cats had to overcome.

Injuries haven’t exactly gone Davidson’s way, though. Having been thin on the offensive and defensive lines especially all season, the team lost another for an indefinite period of time this past week: defensive back Ricky Childers ’06.

“This isn’t the NFL where you lose players, and you can go out and get more. You lose players and that’s it,” said Toop. “You’ve got what you’ve got, and we’re about tapped out right now.”

Despite all the adversity, the squad is hyped up and ready to return to its home turf this week for parent’s weekend. They’ll be up against PFL rival Austin Peay for the 1 p.m. game.

COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS
THE EARTH INSTITUTE AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY

The Master of Public Administration Program in Environmental Science and Policy combines Columbia University’s hands-on approach to teaching public policy and administration with pioneering thinking about the environment. Beginning in June, this twelve-month program takes place at Columbia University’s New York campuses. Earn your MPA in Environmental Science.

For more information, please call 212-854-3142, e-mail: hr46@columbia.edu, or visit our website. Now accepting applications for the program beginning in June 2004.