Roe not harmed by partial birth ban

The first ban on a specific type of abortion since Roe v. Wade successfully managed approval by Congress last week and now heads to the gleeful hands of President Bush for its signing into law. Just another senseless abortion debate that accomplishes nothing but a war of words between the self-righteous Pro-life camp and the feminist/civil liberty freaks at the ACLU... right? Perhaps, but the public opinion battle appears to be moving to the side of the anti-abortion propagandists whose evocation of machine-like doctors sucking the brains out of eight-month-old fetuses certainly affected the Senate to force a lopsided 64-34 vote to ban the procedure known as partial-birth abortion.

We have seen this type of thing many times before. The Supreme Court seems to always fulfill its obligatory task of mopping up these legislative sentimentalities and assigning the frustrating tag of “unconstitutional” to such abortion bans. This most recent ban will likely meet its end at the hands of the supreme justices as well. Will things ever be different? Republican Senator Rick Santorum seems to think so as he recently likened abortion to a social option that will soon become as taboo as slavery.

Is partial birth abortion just a war of words between the self-righteous pro-life camp and the feminist civil liberty freaks at the ACLU? Others see the abortion debate as cyclical: Republicans inevitably attempt to introduce anti-abortion legislation, only to see it fail in Congress or in the Courts... either way, the Pro-lifers are somewhat appeased and the issue remains on the backburner until the religious right starts barking up the politicians’ tree again, at which time the cycle repeats. In this case, the latter seems it will prove true over Santorum’s medieval outlook on the future.

Partial-birth abortion is a particularly nasty procedure that terminates a pregnancy in its late stages (around the third trimester). The technique, which involves the doctor breaking the skull of a partially delivered fetus, is fairly rare and outside of what many consider to be “mainstream medical ethics.” In other words, whether upheld by the Courts or not, the ban is mostly symbolic.

It doesn’t surprise me that both the New York Times and Wall Street Journal neglected to publish editorials addressing what many see as a “landmark” vote on abortion rights. Why subject your “neutrality” to an emotional debate in which neither side budges and both sides take it personally? The abortion conflict muddies politics and public debate more than almost any other social issue in modern times; example: liberal critics of George W. wax and wane over the Iraq war but tremble in horror at the thought of Bush-appointed Justices overturning Roe.

Abortion rights fit awkwardly into the broad category of civil liberties that pro-choicers espouse. Likewise, abortion foes are hardly convincing when they look to the Bible to validate their claims of “life” beginning at conception, or shortly thereafter. The debate will surely continue on into the distant future. In the meantime, procedures such as partial-birth abortion will remain on the hot seat, while the fundamental right handed down in Roe stands firm.

PERSPECTIVES
Wednesday, October 29, 2003

Marxists ignore the facts on free trade

Some people just never give up. Ricardo Ampudia’s column last week entitled “Capitalism just exports American jobs” reminds us there are still people out there who are not convinced that capitalism can work. They must be allergic to history. Capitalism’s undisputed victory over Communism in the Cold War, and the fact that every First World country is capitalist while protectionist and controlled economies in the Third World still wallow in poverty, is enough to prove the naysayers wrong.

Unable to win the historical debate, anti-free traders instead foresee the downfall of capitalism. Such is the case with the “outsourcing” phenomenon. Ricardo blames the recent rising US unemployment on US firms’ replacement of “domestic with foreign labor.” As a result, “over 3 million workers have been laid off.” I don’t even need to point out that the US is clearly recovering from its recession, and that the economy even gained 58,000 jobs last month.

The simplest introductory economics suffices for disproving this baseless alarmism. For example, many outsourcing proponents single out manufacturing as one sector of the US workforce that overseas competition has hit the hardest. Yes, it is true that unemployment in manufacturing has been increasing — but manufacturing GDP is nearly at its all-time high. How is that possible? The answer lies in an economic reality ignored by Ricardo: productivity. US workers are more productive than workers in most other countries. US firms can get cheaper labor in China, but they cannot get the same productivity, so the costs balance out. US workers are being laid off, not because they are being replaced by foreign workers, but because they are so productive that not as many of them are needed.

This productivity factor is true for many sectors of the US economy. One reason why employment has been slow to recover from the recession is because of our workers’ high productivity. In addition, Ricardo is only considering half of the issue. His list of American companies that have moved jobs overseas is accurate, but he does not assess the full ramifications of their actions; he merely assumes that the movement of jobs from the US to other countries is bad for Americans. Not quite. As the great economist Milton Friedman argued, “If you move jobs overseas, it creates incomes and dollars overseas,” which are in turn used to “purchase US goods and that produces jobs in the United States.” In other words, the problem corrects itself.

Finally, Ricardo and his Marxist cronies are once again on the wrong side of history. They made the same predictions about the flaws of free trade when Bill Clinton signed NAFTA, the largest expansion of free trade in North American history, in 1993. The economic boom that followed and catapulted the economy to unforeseen heights proved them wrong. More capital was invested into the US, not less, and jobs were created, not lost. It seems that capitalism’s successes are so great that its detractors...must resort to empirically false myths in order to attack it.

My adventures in international waters

The “F” fire alarm was recently activated after a mass burning of incriminating photos. It seems a lot of students didn’t want their parents to see them clad in “Space-jammarific” saran wrap while lying supine atop the world’s largest wildcat with a traffic cop named Cletus. I don’t know why; I’ve won several international photo contests using mine, including the “Dumb American girls, Ha Ha, You Are So Stupid” exhibit in Stockholm.

It was funny seeing parents on campus this weekend, walking hand in hand with their argyle-wearing child, blissfully unaware of his strategically placed tattoo homage to a Cancun waitress named “Mala.” I tried to represent Canada at the International Festival, but apparently, you have to “live” there or have some “connection” to the country. They don’t know what they're talking about, eh?

The next best activity to observing these cherubic fakers was... no, not the football game... no, not the soccer game... no, not the rugby game (although brutality in general is thoroughly amusing)... it was the International Festival! Why see sweaty men run around in tight clothing when you can see people sweatin’ to the United Arab Emirates’ umbrella dance? Yes, there was an umbrella involved. You needed it because it was raining fun! (I apologize for that last comment; my computer has been equipped with the latest “Cynicism-detection device.” ITS is brainwashing us... I mean ITS is super-neat!)

My mother, an avid devotee during my childhood to anything that would humiliate me (including international folk-dancing and “skorts”), vetoed the various sporting events in favor of the international affair. After sampling the cuisine from every single country (Ugggh, the things I do to objectively report for you people), I nestled in my corner, loosened my pants (or they “broke”—see the police blotter for public nudity) and enjoyed the show.

A high point was an Indian dance meant to attract visiting sailors. However, my recreation of this dance performed at the senior apartments later that night resulted not in unbridled passion, but rather a universal look of horror and a general scattering of the male population. Poor guys, it’s obvious that they were intimidated by the awesome seductive power of the dance.

Ahhh, and the costumes. Their elaborate and authentic attire made me look at my own khakis (shrunk to Gary Coleman proportions) and feel inadequate. It was as though I was an “A” cup at a Baywatch tryout. My mom had a great time, although I had to restrain her from jumping onstage and taking part in a modern African clubbing dance.

“The International Festival” was really fun and the people involved deserve a lot of credit as I am sure it is hard to represent your whole country. I tried to represent Canada once, but apparently, you have to “live” there or have some “connection” to the country. They don’t know what they’re talking aboot, eh? I only wish there were more opportunities for us all to be more “global”... and stuff. To ensure that I spread my newfound enlightenment, I promise to eat only foods that have the name of a country in them: Hello Belgian waffles!

Fox News haters beware: liberal media is not so ‘fair and balanced’

By Danny Troy
Guest Columnist

During Convocation Saturday morning, Stephen Salyer, a Davidson graduate in the public radio industry, mentioned a study that found that 80 percent of Fox viewers believed that WMDs had been found in Iraq, that Iraq had ties with al-Qaeda, that world opinion favored the U.S. invasion of Iraq or a combination of any of the three while only 23 percent of NPR listeners thought the same. Mention of Fox News was, of course, followed by obligatory scoffs and polite laughter from the senior class.

So those Fox viewers among us are too stupid to have a legitimate opinion regarding world affairs, and blindly believe whatever those at Fox say, regardless of the fact that I can’t think of anyone on Fox News who has ever said any of those three claims were true. Why is it that one news channel in an industry whose leaders include bastions of fair and balanced reporting like Peter Jennings, Wolf Blitzer, and Dan Rather can be so threatening? Why is it that a handful of radio talk show hosts can be so threatening to NPR’s massive, taxpayer-funded network of over 700 affiliate stations? How could it be that the Wall Street Journal’s right-leaning editorial page can be so threatening to editorial staff at the New York Times, Los Angeles Times, and other newspapers?

Could it be that Fox News, the Wall Street Journal, and the conservative talk-show hosts are simply more popular? Fox has delivered the same coverage of terrorist attacks and soldiers’ deaths in Iraq that the other stations have, but it has also been sure to make viewers aware of the new schools, jobs, laws, and industries that have seen considerable growth with the removal of Saddam Hussein, something to which other stations pay half-hearted lip service, at best.

According to the International Newspaper Marketing Association, the Wall Street Journal and pro-war New York Post were among the few major national newspapers to NOT experience a significant decline in readership during the war last spring. The Post was up in circulation more than 10 percent while the New York Times, Boston Globe, and LA Times all fell significantly in circulation. Fox News dominated the television industry, with ratings well above those of CNN, MSNBC, and the broadcast stations. Finally, conservative talk show hosts like Sean Hannity, Bill O’Reilly, and Rush Limbaugh topped the charts in listening areas across the country while the best the liberals could muster were Jim Hightower and Alan Colmes.

Of course, the liberal elite establishment will dismiss the facts, arguing that it has been entertainment value, corporate conspiracy, or George Bush’s fault that Fox News and other conservative media outlets have been a success, and they will continue to fund and conduct condescending surveys to make themselves feel better, declaring that the explanation for Fox News’s success is ignorance. In the meantime, the New York Times, public radio, and Peter Jennings will continue to skew the news, and no one will care.