Ros Herrick
Staff Writer

A group of Davidson faculty and alumni have organized a forum aimed at increasing understanding of global cultures in light of concerns about war and cross-cultural conflict. Dr. Shelley Rigger, associate professor of East Asian politics, has helped bring a diverse group of academics to participate in a symposium on the role of War and Warriors in Japanese Popular Culture. The symposium, which is scheduled for Mar. 23-25, will encompass elements of Japan’s popular culture, including cartoons, films, comics, and other forms of art.

“All of these talks are about how a society that has constantly been affected by war has come to exist in modern times,” says Rigger. “There are a lot of rich lessons in this theme for us today.” Indeed, the discussions may find parallels between Japan’s war history and the present American political situation — an interesting connection, but one that organizers claim was unintended.

Dr. Barak Kushner, a visiting assistant professor of East Asian history and panelist at the symposium, distinguishes between the focus of the program and current events. “The topic [of the war with Iraq] might be an interesting question to answer, but it isn’t an actual part of the program,” says Kushner, adding, “This won’t be a political platform.” Instead, Kushner’s portion of the program focuses on the manga, or comic books, of Kobayashi Yoshinori. Kobayashi’s work contains controversial political views regarding Japan’s role in World War II that remain relevant in modern times. “There are journals devoted to ideas he is discussing. Manga is a political force to be reckoned with at this point,” says Kushner.

Also included in Kushner’s panel discussion are Davidson alumni Mark McGuire ’96 and Lee Pennington ’94. Both have studied the culture and history of East Asia extensively. McGuire, a Ph.D. student at Cornell, will discuss the spiritual aspects of traditional Japanese warriors. Pennington, who received a B.A. in Political Science at Davidson and a Ph.D. in Modern Japanese History at Columbia, will give two talks over the course of the three-day event. One, as part of the panel presentations, will center on “social welfare for wounded soldiers and disabled veterans in Japan during the twentieth century,” according to Pennington. The second concerns the influence of wartime death on Japanese culture.

Two visitors from outside the Davidson community will also make presentations. Dan McKee, who is pursuing a doctorate in Japanese literature at Cornell, will speak on the role of the warrior in Japanese society, including a discussion of the woodblock art form as a means of charting this role’s shift throughout history. The other visitor to the program is not so distant from the Davidson community. Paul Anderer, father of Peter Anderer ’03 and professor of Asian Humanities at Columbia, will be the symposium’s keynote speaker. Anderer’s lecture will explore the film portrayals of Japanese war and warriors.

Neil Lerner, assistant professor of music, will discuss a different sort of film, a cartoon propaganda short, or, as he terms it, a “suggestive film.” The short he will be discussing, a World War II-era Bugs Bunny cartoon that features the titular rabbit fighting a band of racially stereotyped Japanese soldiers, is sure to garner quite a response from the audience. “It’s just shocking what you hear these childhood characters saying,” says Lerner, who wrote his dissertation on US government films during World War II. “It would be analogous today to hear the Teletubbies using racial slurs.”

The program organizers...Hope that participants become more aware of the labels that are placed on war and what deeper implications it may have on society. “The main focus of the symposium is to look at how we are trained to think about war, both before it happens and after it happens,” says Rigger. Kushner adds, “This is a type of talk that hasn’t really been offered at Davidson. People should take advantage of that.”

Chairs, from page 1

Cowell equated it to the “Red Bikes.” It just seemed to be common sense to keep them away from [Patterson Court]. It seemed like a good idea to keep it away from there, and when we were putting them around campus, that’s when we saw all these sunny spots near Vail. That’s also where most of them are gone from.

Unfortunately, that very destruction Cowell sought to avoid has already come to pass. Saturday morning, two of the chairs near Belk were broken. A third was in a tree. On Sunday, a total of five were broken and an additional seven were missing. Ordered from Bemis Manufacturing in bulk, the chairs are $17 apiece. Cowell plans a display in front of Chambers that he believes will encourage people to take better care of the chairs.

“I don’t really care as long as people are getting use out of them. It isn’t my concern, it’s the concern of the entire student body. I figured it would be self-regulating.”

Rebecca Moore ’03, chairperson of the Honor Council, said that the community nature of the chairs makes the issue unclear. “[The issue] would be much clearer if it was the school’s chairs,” she said. Nevertheless, she said vandalism prosecutions under the Code of Responsibility are not limited to college property. Any decisions would be Dean Shandley’s to make. In addition, if students took chairs to their rooms for the purpose of using them as their own private property, it could conceivably qualify as theft under the Honor Code, though she was hesitant to say that definitively because of the grave nature of Honor violations.

Moore said that it is unlikely charges would be filed for the chairs already destroyed, or the chairs taken if they were returned. She likened it to the cable splicing situation, saying, “People were splicing cable, and we publicized it...we made the community aware that it is a violation.” Only thereafter were charges considered, and she indicated the Honor Council or Dean of Students’ Office would treat the community chairs the same way. “It is a lot like the Red Bikes, community property that other people need to take care of,” Moore said, adding that the issue really amounted to common sense.

Cowell hopes that the vandalism will not detract from the chairs’ purpose. “This is a publicity stunt, hopefully if this works we can get real money from the administration, and we could put out these nice wooden ones that are heavier and harder to break.” For that to happen, Davidson students will first need to demonstrate the ability to respect and care for the property they have.

Choose Duke
Where environmental science and policy come together

Earn a Master of Environmental Management (MEM) or Master of Forestry (MF) Degree. Or, take advantage of undergraduate and graduate courses at the Duke Marine Lab.

www.env.duke.edu * 919-613-8070

NICHOLAS SCHOOL OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND EARTH SCIENCES
DUKE UNIVERSITY