Photo by Doug Jackson
Courtney Laird battles against Appalachian State on Saturday.

Women’s basketball still looking for winning touch
By MIKE GIGLIO
Sports Editor

“A team learning the curves” is how women’s basketball head coach Annette Watts describes her 7-9 squad. Midway through an up and down season that has had its fair share of impressive wins and heartbreaking losses, coach Watts remains optimistic about her team and pleased with their work ethic. It’s the inconsistencies that have surfaced throughout the year that have hindered the 'Cats at times.

“We are playing much better,” Watts says, “but our inconsistencies have jumped up and bit us.”

The Wildcats began their season with three losses on the road, one to a thirteenth-ranked North Carolina squad and another to a strong Elon team in a game that the coach says the 'Cats just let get away from them. They would bounce back to win their next three games, with victories over Louisiana-Monroe, Charlotte, and Winthrop. In league play, however, the 'Cats dropped their first four games, with the losses separated by a win over Campbell, which served as the only bright spot for the Wildcats within a two-week span.

The team rebounded, led in part by a defense that has been the most consistent aspect of the team, to win its next two conference contests before falling in double-overtime to Appalachian State. The 'Cats dropped yet another close game after two clutch free throws by senior Bethany Schott tied the game in the closing seconds of the fourth quarter.

The play of Schott, who leads the team with 14.3 points per game, as well as juniors Ashley Hallstead and Robyn Flewelling, has helped steady the team throughout the year. Their presence has been complemented by the emergence of sophomore Emily Callahan, whose 11.1 points per game have given the 'Cats a needed boost. So far this season, the team has lost four games by eight points or less, three of them in conference play. Their 2-5 record in conference puts them with their backs against the wall for the remainder of the season. According to coach Watts, that isn’t necessarily a bad thing.

“We’ve got some games coming up on the road that we just have to win,” she says, “and I don’t think that hurts us. Playing in a must-win situation can only be good for the team.”

The Wildcats will find themselves in just that situation when they resume play on Saturday, on the road against ETSU.

Attention Patients:
Dr. Rebecca Panuski
Lakeside Family Physicians
Appointments now being taken
704-799-9455
Visit their new Mooresville Location in Morrison Plantation
130 Plantation Ridge Drive
Mooresville, NC 28117

Pierre sets school record in shot put and Becken places second in 5k
By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

The Davidson College track teams opened the 2003 season at Appalachian State on Saturday competing against 21 other schools from the region. Even with a team full of injuries and illnesses, the men’s track and field team still opened up well. Despite only being back for a week from winter break, the team had several notable performances, including that of senior Brad Becken who ran within five seconds of his personal best in the 5k, crossing the line second with a time of 15:57.

“It was a good opening meet, but I’m looking to push it more next time [at the UNC meet in a week and a half]. I opened up a bit slowly and finished that way as well, so I’m looking to break my PR considerably next time,” explained Becken.

Mike Anselmo ’06 started his collegiate career well with a toss of 37’ 3’’. That put equates well to his high school best of about 44’ on a shot that was four pounds lighter. However, in a weekend where much of Davidson College came down with some kind of illness, the track and field team had nearly one third of its male members missing due to either illness, injury or rehab. Among those runners were two of the team’s top athletes: middle distance runner Greg Scott ’04 and sprinter Andrew Pratt ’04. Despite the adversity, the team opened the season strongly, and coach Gary Andrew feels the team is headed in the right direction.

“As we get back into theSwing of things, we should see rapid improvement in our next two meets,” Andrew said. Other noteworthy performances came from senior co-captain Jimmy Swansbrough, who finished the 3k with a time of 9:19.31, and Joe Taylor ’06. Taylor crossed the line fourteenth in the mile run with a time of 4:37.13. He did, however, tweak an old hamstring injury that may keep him out of practice for a few days.

The women Wildcats had several strong performances in the middle-distance events. Sophomore Anna Brew earned the top spot on the women’s side with her fifth-place finish in the 3,000-meter run. Brew completed the race in 10:52.01, while classmate Sally Stanhope crossed the finish line in 11:04.61 and ninth place. Hilary Leister ’06, coming off a very successful cross country season, finished seventh in the 800-meter run. Leister completed the race in 2:28.16, while seniors Jana Yee and Liz Gross finished 16th and 22nd, respectively. In the one-mile run, sophomore Sarah Baxter and freshman Carissa Skrivanek both crossed the finish line in 5:38, good enough for 13th place.

In the field events, junior co-captain Amanda Yeck placed 12th in the high jump, while sophomore Kim Pierre threw the shot put 34’07.50" to finish 17th and break Susan Swift’s 12-year-old record of 33’08". The throw bested her previous college PR by over three feet. Said Pierre on setting the record, “I am glad that my hard work has paid off, and I am so thankful for the support of my coaches and teammates—men and women, runners and throwers alike.”

Both Wildcat teams will compete at the Smith Field House on the campus of the University of North Carolina on Saturday, Feb. 1, for the Carolina Fast Times Invitational.

Freshmen aiming to lift struggling wrestling program from the abyss

Coman earns SoCon wrestler of the week honors

By Bossy Kenner and Brent McCormick
Staff Writers

While the rest of us were enjoying our winter break, the Davidson Wrestling squad was hard at work. The Wildcats’ last few weeks featured some ups and downs, but there are a number of positives that the team can come away with. Performing very well at the Sunshine Open in West Palm Beach, Florida on Dec. 28-29 and at a tri-meet in Lexington, Va. on January 4, the only thing that seemed to be hurting the grapplers was forfeits. In the competition in Lexington, they managed a win over Washington & Lee but fell to Pensacola Christian and Gettysburg College. The ’Cats won most of their non-forfeits, however, including a 6-1 record for Patrick Coman ’06 in the two tournaments.

Coman was rewarded for his efforts with a Southern Conference Wrestler of the Week award, a first for a Wildcat wrestler in years. Grant Doornboos and Adam Sperling notched two victories apiece in Lexington as well, with Sperling pinning both of his opponents. Unfortunately, Davidson followed the notable showings with unimpressive losses to Franklin & Marshall and Appalachian State in its first home competition all year.

Despite the losses, coach T.J. Jaworsky was filled only with optimism, saying, “It is always good to fail forward instead of failing backward.” This optimism is a breath of fresh air for the young Davidson squad, whose future was uncertain just two years ago, before Jaworsky took over. The UNC—Chapel Hill alum and 1995 National Wrestler of the Year began his head-coaching career at Davidson last year, in an effort to revive a struggling program. The rebuilding process has been heavily in effect this year, with nine first-year students completing an 11-man roster. The future looks bright for these nine young wrestlers, and the season is looking better for the entire Davidson squad after rebounding in their latest match, a fourth-place finish at the Washington & Lee Invitational Tournament on Jan. 18. Every Wildcat managed to place in the tourney, with Coman and Henry Blue making their way to the finals in the 125-pound and 133-pound brackets, respectively. Senior Doornboos and junior Sperling both finished third in their brackets, providing leadership for the rest of the squad. The wrestlers hope to continue this success on our home mats in Belk Arena against The Citadel and Virginia on Jan. 25.