Men’s soccer clinches top seed with Furman win
By Erin Dek, Staff Writer

Any signs of a recent loss to UNC were nowhere to be seen in the Wildcats as they won an extremely physical battle Saturday afternoon over conference rival Furman, 1-0. Playing on senior day and in their last home game of the season, the five seniors — David Peoples, Justin Porter, Nick Hansell, Keith Nicholson, and Shihab Sugeir — got their first win over Furman and Davidson’s first since 1997. The group also became the first class to post four consecutive winning seasons since the class of 1983, as the Wildcats improved to 10-4-2 on the season.

Fittingly, Peoples scored the only goal of the game on a penalty kick in the 59th minute after teammate Marco Antunez '07 was nearly clotheslined by two Furman defenders. The goal and his offensive efforts won Peoples a spot on College Soccer News’s National Team of the Week.

Head coach Matt Spear had much to say about his outstanding seniors: “This class is a special group of young men that I admire greatly. They relish big games and have stepped up to fearlessly lead in countless situations. In the classroom, they are winners with a 3.43 average GPA. That is well above the average GPA at Davidson and a huge reason why we have been so publicly recognized by the Conference and NSCAA. They are tremendous ambassadors for the College and Davidson soccer, and they are sparkling role models for youth.”

In regards to each specific player, Spear had more than enough complimentary words, saying, “David Peoples has been an awesome two-year captain, as selected by his teammates. His fight back from his ACL injury has been courageous.”

See Soccer, page 10

Cass Baltz ’07 battles a Furman defender. Playing in the final home games of their Davidson careers, both teams were victorious. And each team clinched first place in its respective conference. Congratulations to these athletes.

THE DAVIDSONIAN * WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2003

Wide receiver Brett Dioguardi ’07 fends off an Austin Peay defender in Saturday’s loss. Second half collapse drops football to 0-5 at home, guarantees losing record. 15 injured players miss time, QB White tears ACL
By Walker Saik, Staff Writer

A win is a win, and a loss is a loss. It just so happens, however, that the football team’s latest loss came Saturday against an Austin Peay team that had been outscored 80-0 in its previous two matches. It just so happens that the game was played on Family Weekend with a sizeable crowd and several football parents eager to see their children perform well. It just so happens that the ’Cats haven’t won a home game yet, and with only two contests left, are guaranteed their first losing season since 1997. But a loss is a loss, and this one should hurt no more or less than the last-second nail-biter against Dayton on Homecoming.

“We find different ways to lose,” said head coach Mike Toop. “It’s kind of like the Dayton game, except [this time, the underdogs] won... When people run for 275 yards in one half, it’s going to be tough to win those games.”

Those who left at halftime to catch some of the numerous other events on campus may have actually been quite surprised by the final outcome, a 31-21 loss to theGovernors, for Davidson seemed to have taken control just before the half. With starting QB Damion White ’05 out with a torn ACL suffered after an awkward fall early in the game, Tom Cook ’06 took over and led the ’Cats on some impressive drives in the second quarter. Cook drove the ball down the field with timely, crisp passing and capped a 73-yard drive with an 11-yard touchdown pass to Barrett Johnson ’04. Cook finished the day 22-of-36 with 298 total yards and two touchdown passes. With his 121 receiving yards, Johnson eclipsed the 2,000-yard reception mark for just the third time in Davidson history. On Austin Peay’s next drive, defensive back Ben Skurek ’04 intercepted a pass at the Governor 43. The ’Cats took advantage of the opportunity and, on 5-of-6 passing from Cook, scored another touchdown just before the half, extending their lead to 21-10. The killer, though, for Cook and the rest of the Wildcat football team was turnovers. In each of their last three drives, the Davidson offense pushed the ball down the field, twice inside the Governor 10. Two of these drives culminated in crucial turnovers, however, and the clock ran out on their final drive. “It was just frustrating. We moved the ball but just couldn’t finish,” said Toop. “They just outplayed us in the second half and did it thoroughly enough to win the game.” Defensively, the ’Cats just could not stop the Governors in the second half. Allowing 344 net yards of rushing, the defensive line was consistently on its heels, and big plays—most notably an 80-yard touchdown run in the third quarter—ran amuck. Next up is Coastal Carolina at home on Nov. 8, the team’s last chance to notch a home victory. With more injured players than crawfish in a Cajun’s diet, the squad has become much too thin in the past few weeks, no doubt contributing to the late game collapses witnessed in the past two games. Toop doesn’t place the blame on the injuries, though, now totaling 15 players on one of the smallest rosters in I-AA football. “It’s not an excuse,” he says. “Unfortunately, it’s one of those years. When guys go down, you’ve got to hope that people step up and make plays.” Toop hopes the bye-week will give the squad a much-needed breather so that it can come out ready for war against the Chanticleers. “It’s really hard to swallow the fact that you’re 0-5 at home,” said Toop. “We’re just going to focus on the next one and that just so happens to be the [last] home game. For the seniors that are healthy, that’s going to be the last time they’re on that field, and we’re going to do anything we can to get that win.”

PLAY OF THE WEEK

A few minutes into the second half of a rough, physical match against Furman on Saturday, Marco Antunez ’07 took a hard foul in the opponents’ box, resulting in a penalty shot for the ’Cats. Fittingly, Davidson called upon captain David Peoples '04 to take the crucial kick. Peoples responded by firing a blast past the diving goalie, giving the ’Cats a 1-0 lead. As it would turn out, the goal happened to be the game winner, as Davidson went on to blank the Paladins and secure a first place finish in the Southern Conference.