Sports journalists should focus on sports, not gossip. Remember back, say, five years ago when the sports world revolved around
professional and collegiate athletes and the actual games they played? A time when the only sports news people read about,
and cared about, for that matter, pertained to scores and transactions, with the occasional athlete (i.e., Darryl Strawberry and Oil
Can Boyd) making headlines for drug use or spousal abuse? Those days are no more; gone, along with the Quebec
Nordiques and my beloved Boston Garden.

Now, I’m not going to go off on some liberal-artsy tirade explaining how our society emphasizes all the wrong values
and how sports are no longer played for the love of the game... blah blah. But when a recent headline
on ESPN.com read, “Unlock the Mystery of Anna [Kournikova’s] Tattoo,” one wonders when “The Worldwide Leader in Sports” merged with
The National Inquirer to bring us the latest gossip on a woman who hadn’t won a Grand Slam singles match
in more than two years until last Monday.

As it turns out, Ms. Anna’s tattoo, much like Big Foot and Crop Circles, doesn’t even exist. According to the
Russian tennis player/model/Enrique’s girlfriend, “I’ve been wearing a heat patch for about two years now. I have chronic back pain.
It just happens to be that my skirt is pretty low right now, and everybody sees the patch.” Granted, Anna’s
skirt is always low and the discovery of the “patch” should elicit some curiosity. But since when are American sports
fans so intrigued by tattoos, and so much so that several leading sports publications dedicated considerable time to “unlocking” this
mystery?

For the better part of two decades, body art has been a staple of most every professional league (look no
further than Dennis Rodman or Jason Giambi). If the Pope had recently enhanced his body with a tattoo of Noah’s
Ark, I would understand the media frenzy. However, this is Anna Kournikova, and whether you see her as the 42nd
ranked player in the world or an aspiring model that pales in comparison to the likes of Tyra Banks and
Kate Moss, her tattoo should not warrant coverage from any sports-related media outlet.

What may be even more disturbing, another ESPN.com article reported that the Ohio High School Athletic Association has opened an
investigation into an automobile that was given to LeBron James, the high-school basketball player who many believe will be the
number-one pick in the upcoming NBA draft. The car in question, a brand new Hummer H2 fully equipped with three
televisions and a hook-up for computer games, was allegedly given to LeBron by his mother, who obtained a bank loan
to fund the present, which carries a base retail price of $49,190.

Certainly, no one launched, and nationally publicized, any sort of investigation when Moses Malone or Kobe Bryant, both high school
basketball standouts, received their first cars. To obsess over professional and even collegiate athletes is one thing, but the line
has to be drawn when an 18-year-old kid can’t even enjoy a birthday gift from his own mother. While it’s
entirely appropriate for the OHSAA to investigate whether LeBron is eligible to play, there is absolutely no reason for the
investigation to become a national concern. I mean, come on; leave the kid alone. How many of us received a
car during high school? And odds are no one, not even Davidson’s finest athletes, was questioned as to how the
car was purchased.

LeBron’s situation is not, as Sports Illustrated commented, the most recent sign that the apocalypse is upon us. Instead, our
nation’s interest in an 18-year-old’s automobile is a more foreboding sign of the end of the world. The fact is,
we live in a supply-and-demand society, and whatever the people want they can rest assured that America will send her
finest journalists to uncover what lies beneath the skirts, so to speak, of today’s athletes.

Student trained under Ultimate Fighting World Champion
By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

Back in 1999, after Matt Hinson had just finished his senior year in high school, he was simply trying to
expand his resume as a future law enforcement officer by taking a defense tactics class with the Concord (NC) Police
Department. Fast-forward to 2003, where he will compete as a Blue Belt in Jiu-Jitsu, just below the professional level, this
Saturday in the North American Championship Tournament, a premier competition that is drawing worldwide attention for its top professional fights.

Hinson has come a long way since he first took those self-defense classes in ’99. He earned the Blue Belt
after only two years, a significant accomplishment in the Gracie style of Jiu-Jitsu, and he began to instruct and co-instruct
weekly classes in law enforcement defense tactics to the United States Secret Service, U.S. Marshals, and other local law enforcers.

Hinson has gone well beyond teaching, however. He has trained under an Ultimate Fighting champion, a Brazilian champion, a Black
Belt World Champion, and a Heavy Weight World Champion. In fact, his personal instructor at Joe Hurst Jiu-Jitsu Academy in
Concord is a Jiu-Jitsu World Champion. Under these trainers, in addition to 10-20 hours per week devoted to Jiu-Jitsu training,
he is committed to a five-day-a-week weight lifting program as well as cardio training, such as running or swimming.

All of this sweat is devoted to one goal: competition. Jiu-Jitsu competition, comparable to Ultimate Fighting, is a submission sport.
Gracie Jiu-Jitsu, the style Hinson studies, “teaches one to take a fighter to the ground and use your opponent’s weight
and body positions against him,” explains Hinson. The catch lies in forcing submission. To force the “tap-out,” competitors may put
opponents in chokes, arm breaks, leg breaks, or neck cranks as opposed to pinning them, asDone in wrestling. When the
opponent has reached his pain tolerance, he is to “tap out.” Naturally, a sport with such violent moves seems dangerous,
but Hinson explains that injuries are merely caused by carelessness.

Matt Hinson ’03 — “Most people get hurt out of stupidity, by not tapping out when they get caught in
something. If someone doesn’t tap, they can get their arm broken, choked unconscious, or something even worse. Every fighter has
the responsibility for the safety of himself and the other fighter, and if either fails to uphold his or her
role, that is when someone can get hurt,” he explains.

Hinson has been in overload in preparation for the upcoming competition, one that will be featured by Fox’s Best Damn
Sports Show and have celebrity appearances from NASCAR driver Dale Earnhardt Jr., current World Heavy Weight Champion Ricco Rodriguez, nationally
ranked fighter Tito Ortiz, and even the Bud Girls.

“I have been training heavily and sparring well, and I believe that I have the ability to fight very well
in this tournament,” he said.

The competition will take place at the Cabarrus County Arena in Concord, just 30 minutes north of the Davidson campus.
It will be an all-day event, from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m., and it features two “super-fights” with purses of
$2,000 each. Cost of admission is $20 for adults and $10 for children, and seats can be purchased through Ticketmaster.

Currently a defense tactics instructor for the Cabarrus County EMS and Fire Emergency System as well as numerous women’s self-defense
classes, Hinson will be offering lessons on the Davidson campus this spring. The initial meeting will take place on Jan.
30 from 7-9 p.m. in the lobby of Baker Sports Complex, at which point a permanent meeting place will be
announced. Focusing on both self-defense and the sport of Jiu-Jitsu, the lessons will meet weekly and be held in a
very informal setting. Costs are at a minimum of $10 a month per student, compared to rates of $70 a
month at other academies. Lessons are for students only, male or female, and will begin with the most basic techniques.
Space is limited, however, to 40 students on a first-come, first-serve basis. To register, contact Matt Hinson at mahinson@davidson.edu.

Former Davidson coach Lefty Driesell retires after 41 years
By Erin DELK
Staff Writer

On Jan. 3, 2003, basketball coaching legend Charles G. “Lefty” Driesell announced his resignation from Georgia State University after 41
years of college basketball. At age 71, Driesell has amassed a total of 786 wins to become the fourth most
successful men’s basketball coach in NCAA history, standing behind legends Dean Smith, Adolph Rupp, and Bobby Knight. Driesell is the
only men’s coach to compile 100 wins at four different Division I schools: Georgia State University, Maryland University, James Madison
University, and Davidson College.

He is best known for his 17 years at Maryland, from his famous first assertion that Maryland would become the
“UCLA of the East” to his infamous departure in 1986 after the death of Len Bias. However, his college coaching
career began here at Davidson, where he brought a losing program out of the shadows and into the national spotlight.

Lefty’s arrival to Davidson in 1960 marked the end of almost 30 years of losing seasons. With the phrase “a
moral victory is like kissing your sister” tacked over the locker room door, Driesell immediately set into motion his “just
win” philosophy. He began with the stunning upset over All-American Len Chappell and Billy Packer’s Wake Forest team on Dec.
3, 1960. In just three seasons, Driesell took Davidson all the way to a number one ranking in Sports Illustrated
for the 1963 season, in which he was named Southern Conference coach of the year. He held onto that title
through the 1966 season. In 1964, his team won 23 straight games.

Men’s basketball reached its peak in his last two years at Davidson, as they came within mere points both seasons
of making it to the Final Four. During the 1969 season, Driesell’s team was ranked as high as number two
in the country, and set a school record that still stands today of 27 wins in one season. Several of
his players, such as first team All-Americans Fred Hetzel and Dick Snyder, went on to play in the NBA. In
the nine seasons, Davidson was nationally ranked in the top 10 four different times, a feat still not matched.

As current men’s basketball coach Bob McKillop stated, Driesell “put Davidson on the map. He consistently brought Davidson into the
national limelight enough times that people became interested in this tiny liberal arts school.” On Jan. 20, 2001, McKillop recorded
his 177th victory, surpassing Lefty in career wins and sparking comparisons between the two coaches. In his 14th season as
head coach, McKillop recognizes the important impact Driesell has had on both Davidson athletics and on his own basketball career.

“I am very fortunate to have seen Lefty Driesell from so many different vantage points: playing against his Davidson team
with East Carolina, experiencing him as a recruit for my high school players in New York, and watching him coach
those same players at Maryland. I have the utmost respect for his resiliency, his focus, and his ability to make
the game fun.”

Not only did Lefty “make the game fun,” but he also instilled in Davidson athletics a tradition of winning and
excellence that until his time had only truly existed here in academics. As Athletic Director Jim Murphy put it, Driesell
“built a program of national prominence that created a strong impression of Davidson that still lasts today and will linger
for a long time.”
