10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Team picked to finish
sixth in conference

By Jerr Davis
Staff Columnist

This fall the women’s soccer team prepares for a tough and exciting schedule in and out of the Southern Conference.
The 2003 team is comprised of a mix of new faces with talented veterans.

A three-year starter and 2002 All-Conference selection, Leigh Anne Hoskins ’04 will look to lead the ’Cats alongside 2002 Southern
Conference Rookie of the Year, Kara Koehrn ’06. Ten freshmen join the team and as many as four could earn
starting roles. With the loss of five seniors from last year, many players will need to change roles and adopt
new positions.

Highlighting the schedule are ACC powerhouses Duke and Wake Forest and SEC foes South Carolina and Kentucky. For the first
time in history, the ’Cats will take on Ivy Leaguers Dartmouth University. In Conference play, Furman will be a target
for Davidson to triumph after last year’s 4-0 loss to the Paladins.

Line-up-wise, the ’Cats return two starters to their defense, in Jenny Soldano ’06 and Liz Mannino ’05. Fully recovered from
a season-ending broken foot just a year ago, Lauren Hungerland ’06 will add speed and skill to the back line.
Also look for Robin French ’07, Cameron Hardesty ’07, and Kara Hawkesworth ’07 to contribute defensively.

To back up these defenders all season long is co-captain Sarah Hobart ’05. Hobart recorded a 1.75 goals against average
and 114 saves during the 2002 campaign.

The midfield returns four starters from last season’s squad. Co-captain Amy Leitch ’04 will look to use her leadership and
determination to solidify the ’Cats’ midfield. Fellow senior Deneille Erikson and Stephanie Bouts ’05 are both capable of creating goals
and putting a few in themselves.

To complete the midfield will be Koehrn, a preseason All-Conference selection, who will be looked on to go forward as
much as possible and have a go at goal. A tremendous leader on the field, she scored two goals and
had two assists last season.

Also seeing time in the midfield will be Sarah Hubert ’04, Catie Williams ’04, Cady Blackey ’06, Jessica Lahre ’07,
and Anne Stevens ’07.

The experienced front line of Davidson’s offense, Hoskins and Alia Antonucci-Alter ’04, will pair up to pose quite an offensive
threat to opponents. Hoskins is coming off an eight-goal, four-assist season. She currently stands in the Davidson record books with
28 career goals and 15 assists. Antonucci-Alter will use her quickness and dribbling abilities to add to Hoskins’ dominance.

Coming off what turned into a productive spring, this year’s ’Cats will be challenged in every match. They are picked
to finish sixth in the Southern Conference.

Must-see home games for this fall include Wake Forest on Sept. 9, Duke on Sept. 26, and the last game
of the season with UNC-Greensboro on Nov. 2.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2003

The women’s soccer team traveled to UNC Asheville on Sunday afternoon and managed to hold on for a 2-1 win
in the midst of some rough weather.

Davidson scored its first goal 25 seconds into the match and led 2-0 before lightning delayed the game for 20
minutes with 5:23 left in the first period.

Davidson took a quick lead when senior Alia Antonucci-Alter scored on a pass from Leigh Anne Hoskins right after the
opening whistle. After being shut out by Kentucky on Friday, Alia’s goal was Davidson’s first of the season.

Both defenses were strong following the quick opening goal, keeping the score at 1-0, until preseason all-conference selection Kara Koehrn
scored on a cross from Hoskins at the 32:04 mark. It was Koehrn’s first goal of the season and Hoskins’
second assist of the game.

Following the weather delay, the Bulldogs (0-1-0) got on the scoreboard when Kelsey Dawson found the back of the net
just before halftime. Davidson was able to hold onto the 2-1 lead in the second period thanks to a strong
defensive effort and the goalkeeping of junior Sarah Hobart.

The win was particularly gratifying, as the team was coming off a 6-0 loss to the University of Kentucky just
two days earlier.
