VOLUME 94, NUMBER 23

Jamila Schwartz ’06 and Brika Eklund ’06 take to the lawn in front of Belk Residence Hall to enjoy the
recent warm weather.

Car accident leaves Belk, Rich residents in the dark for night
By Matt Garfield
Editor

The power went out in Belk and Richardson residence halls last Thursday for the second occasion this school year—but this
time, Mother Nature wasn’t responsible. A Davidson student attempting to cross Main Street in front of the Student Health Center
collided with an oncoming truck around 7 p.m. Thursday, forcing it to veer into a telephone pole that carries electricity
to nearly 450 students in Belk and Richardson halls. The student was not hurt, but passengers in the truck were
taken to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center, where they were treated for minor injuries, said Dean of Residence Life Leslie
Marsicano.

Duke Energy officials initially said power would be restored within three hours, but after surveying the damage, changed their prognosis
to Friday morning. “At that point, we started making different plans,” said Marsicano. “We’re faced with the prospect of students
in a building with no lights, no security system and no way to call out. That’s not only inconvenient, it’s
also not entirely safe.”

RLO employees went door-to-door through the halls, instructing residents to bunk with friends in other dorms or stay in the
Union for the night. Many students were away from their dorms and weren’t notified of the outage until long after
nightfall. Some were forced to use candles to find their way through pitch-black halls to retrieve needed items from their
rooms. A few even elected to remain in their dorms overnight, posing what Marsicano admitted was a major liability concern.

“We told people they need to leave,” said Marsicano. “Did we go back and check beds? No. We informed people
there was a risk to staying in the buildings.” One Belk resident said RLO should have done more to keep
students updated on the situation. “Some students stay in the library until it closes at 1 a.m., but RLO wasn’t
hanging around until then,” said Clare Hahneman ’05, who lives on Fourth Belk. “It’s frustrating that they don’t see.”

Blackout, page 4

Two Davidson ROTC cadets earn top award
By Ross Helfrick
Staff Writer

Two Davidson ROTC cadets have been presented with medals honoring their respective achievements, both in the program and in the
classroom. Travis Lee ’04 and Julie Perry ’04 were selected to receive the James Baker Woods III Memorial Medal, established
by Davidson alumnus Dr. James Baker Woods, Jr. '18 in honor of his son, who was killed serving the United
States in the Vietnam War. Dr. Woods created the award to honor “a rising senior military science cadet who has
displayed outstanding qualities of leadership, moral character, academic achievement, and aptitude for military service.”the past, the medal has been given
only to a single cadet, but this year program leaders deemed it necessary to honor both Lee and Perry. Major
Pat Leslie, leader of the Davidson College Army ROTC program, says he was impressed by the dedication of each cadet.
According to Leslie, “the winner of the award is determined by GPA, scores on the Army Physical Fitness Test, class
performance, and performance in the ROTC program.” In addition to receiving the Woods Medal, Lee and Perry are also competing
against each other for the Cadet of the Year award. The winner of this title will be selected not only
from among Davidson’s cadets, but also from those of the other schools within the 49er Battalion to which Davidson belongs,
including UNCC, Davidson, Catawba, JCSU, Livingstone, and Pfeiffer... The Cadet of the Year is selected from a pool of cadets
who have been previously honored at their own schools as Cadet of the Semester.

see ROTC, page 2

Lottery leaves 76 students ‘homeless’
Substance-free housing sparks new controversy
By BRANDON CARROLL
News Editor

Could spring come to Davidson without an RLO controversy? This year won’t be the one to find out. After Phase
V of RLO’s housing process was completed last week, 76 underclassmen received no housing and were placed on a waiting
list. In the words of Geoff King ’06, “I’m homeless.” That figure includes 64 men and 12 women. Because of
the shortage of rooms, one additional complication means some students who do not wish to be substance-free selected that option
in an effort to avoid living down the hill, or simply to have a room at all. On the flip
side, there are individuals who would like to be substance-free who are now on less regulated residence halls. Leslie Marsicano,
Director of Residence Life, admitted, “This has been a very peculiar year.” As proof, Marsicano said, “We’ve never had apartments
left over after Martin Court lottery.” There were also “unusually high numbers of people who want to live off-campus,” she
said.

Complicating RLO’s ability to predict demand has been a variety of factors. Marsicano cited the uncertain plans of potential transfer
students, students awaiting acceptances from study-abroad programs and tenuous financial situations due to the weak economy for some who had
looked to live off-campus. Because of these influences, she said, “Some people aren’t too firm on those decisions. [They] have
been later in the year [finalizing] their plans.” Marsicano said that all students on the waiting list would eventually have
on-campus housing: “I’m not worried about that at all.” She added, “We usually have things settled by June 15. Most
people will be settled well before that.”

see RLO, page 4

INSIDE THIS WEEK
TC allocations: Did SGA follow its own rules? Can organizations pay student workers? See stories, page 3.
Arts & Living
Union announces next year’s Artist Series line-up, page 5.
Perspectives
Our columnists’ affirmative action debates continue, page 8.
Sports
Lacrosse finally breaks 24-game losing streak with win over Virginia Tech, page 11.
