Memo to Martha: give it up

Martha Burk, are you done yet? If not, you should know we're all sick of your nonsense (but we’re all
indebted to you for the commercial-free coverage of The Masters last weekend). You are so two months ago. No, even
longer than that. When you sent that initial letter to Hootie Johnson last June, we all thought, well, this will
be mildly entertaining. And so America gave you your 15 minutes of fame, but now it’s mid-April—some ten months later—and
our attention span expired long ago. All the goodwill you showed at the beginning of this crusade has vanished, and
during The Masters last weekend you staged more of a silly sideshow than a legitimate protest. Indeed, even the obligatory
Elvis impersonator was on hand, saying, “The only position I have is that Elvis loves women.”

You promised us at least 200 protestors, but when game time rolled around only 50 or so showed up to
play. An entire bus rolled up with some of your supporters, but only 17 got off. We expected a waterfall,
but all we got was a leaky faucet. Even Reverend Jesse Jackson, one of your biggest supporters, didn’t bother to
come. He knew this whole thing would go over like a fart in church and saved some dignity by staying
home. Proving that even the government didn’t want to see you near the golf course, your protest was relegated to
a 5.1-acre cornfield a half-mile from Augusta’s gates. “[Our field] is out of sight of the club,” you said. “It’s
even below the grade of the street. You actually have to drive down a few feet to get to it.
It sounds like we’re truly in the pits.” Exactly. Take a hint. You were put in the same police-monitored area
with eight other protest groups, including a faction of the Ku Klux Klan and another group called “People Against Ridiculous
Protests,” for a reason. To the people of Augusta, Georgia, you were about as important as snowplows last weekend. And
when asked whether you were planning on going to the front gate last weekend you said, “I’ll walk into that
club when I’m a member.” Martha, please. When you’re a member? Say Augusta does admit women members, which it probably
will (and should, in my opinion): do you think you’ll be invited to join? For Augusta National to give you
membership would be like Pete Rose asking Jim Gray to give his induction speech at Cooperstown.

Look, Martha, many people agree with your cause, but right now America has more on its mind. What will it
take for you to realize this? Even a war hasn’t convinced you that maybe—just maybe—there are more important things than
installing ladies’ tees at a Georgia golf course. You even said that for CBS to air the tournament was an
“insult” to all the women fighting for our freedom in Iraq. These brave women deserve better, you said, than to
come home to a place where they can’t join an elitist golf club. America’s female soldiers do deserve better, but
membership to Augusta probably isn’t their number one concern. After all, as Sports Illustrated’s Roy Johnson pointed out, most women
only make 75 cents for every dollar that men make—isn’t that a more worthy cause? Don’t get me wrong, sexism
is a major issue, and should receive plenty of attention, but you’re approaching it from the wrong angle. Attacking a
golf club on behalf of sexism is like challenging a hot dog vendor outside Fenway Park on behalf of vegetarianism.
Sure, Augusta National is internationally known; but, honestly, how many women would be affected by your desired change in policy?
Not many. You see, there are only 300 or so members at Augusta, which means that some six billion other
people in the world are being excluded too. Everyone else knows that there is probably no club in America more
private than Augusta National. One need not bother applying, since there is no application process—you have to be invited to
join. Founded in 1931 by golf legend Bobby Jones and businessman Cliff Roberts, Augusta’s members are fiercely proud and protective
of their club’s exclusivity and storied tradition.

The First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution grants Augusta National’s members, and every other private club for that matter, the
right to choose with whom they wish to freely associate—whether they be white, African-American, Asian, Hispanic, tall, short, fat, thin,
or even male or female. If special interest groups like yours were to dictate the internal policies of private clubs
then the value of our Founding Fathers’ carefully crafted right of free association will be forever lost. You’re not just
challenging Hootie Johnson here; you’re also messing with the likes of George Washington and Benjamin Franklin. That’s heavy stuff, Martha.
What’s more, women are allowed as guests at Augusta National, and last year women played more than 1,000 rounds of
golf there without any restricted tee times. Surely you, of all people, must know this. What most of America didn’t
know, at least until last June, was that the National Council of Women’s Organizations even existed. To many of us,
this whole brouhaha is simply a misdirected effort to publicize your organization. Having no legal leg to stand on, but
desperately wishing to remain in the limelight, you have turned the media circus into some sort of morality crusade. Bottom
line: sexism is a worthy cause; but you’re insanely annoying. What you should have done with all the money you’ve
now wasted on this current campaign is invested it in building an all-women’s golf course. That’s the beauty of America,
Martha. Even people like you can start a private club. One that, judging by the pathetic turnout for your protest
on Saturday, not many people would want to join.

By Mike GIGLIO
Sports Editor

Hundreds of miles away, playing professional baseball in Burlington, Vermont, Tim Frend is still very much a Davidson student. Even
after being selected in the 23rd round by the Kansas City Royals in last year’s Major League Baseball draft, even
after batting .326 in hisFirst season in the minors, his biggest problem is one shared by many here at school.
He thinks too much. “I like to analyze too much,” says the 6-2, 195-pound left fielder. “Any problems I have
aren’t usually fundamental or physical.” Not that he has run into many problems in his baseball career. He started all
four years as a player at Davidson, finishing up with a .345 career batting average. He set school records in
hits, games played, at-bats, doubles, total bases, and extra-base hits. “I came to Davidson for the academics and the chance
to play,” Frend explains. “I knew I had an opportunity to come and start and play every game, while getting
to go up against top teams like Wake Forest.” His success in college made him the 678th pick in the
2002 draft. From there, he started his professional career with the Spokane Indians in the short-season Single A league, where
he batted .326 with 79 hits and 34 RBIs. He got a taste of the big leagues this spring when
he was one of only 15 minor-leaguers asked to come early to spring training for a one-on-one mini-camp session. He
kept busy during spring training, which he describes as “drills in the morning, lunch, then games at night.” Frend is
currently working to make the first big adjustment of his professional career, as he was moved up to Burlington two
weeks ago to play in a long-season low-A league. Here his mental toughness has been tested.

“Basically with a longer season, you have to work to mentally stay on an even keel,” he says. “Baseball is
about making adjustments, and you need to be able to do that over a longer period of time while staying
level.” Frend admits that doing that has been hard thus far, especially since he has recently been experiencing the first
slump of his short career. He has been working to keep his head up. “Regardless of how you’re playing, you’ve
got to stick it out,” he says. “Whether you’re 0-4 or 0-15, up or down, you’ve got to keep plugging.
One of the best pieces of advice my coach has given me is that baseball players need to have a
short-term memory. You can’t focus on what you’re doing wrong or what you can’t control. Sometimes you just need to
loosen up and go out there and react.” Frend says he will find his swing again, and when he does
he’ll be back on the path towards his ultimate goal of making the majors. “I definitely feel like I have
a good shot of doing it, although I have a lot to work on,” he says. “My view of things
is probably a lot quicker, though. Most kids come out of college thinking they’ll be there in a few years,
and it usually takes a lot longer than they expected. I thought I’d be playing in high A right now,
after last season. That’s why the minors are so important: You make the most of your time down low and
try to make your adjustments there.”

Life as a professional baseball player demands adjustments off the field as well. Constantly changing towns and even teams can
make things tough on the players. As Frend describes, “You have to be willing to be away all the time,
away from family and friends, and you have to be willing to change lockers at the drop of a hat.
There’s always the possibility that you’ll be moved up or down within the organization or traded. It’s definitely fun, though.”
He adds, “It’s also a lot of work.” As he points out, however, that’s something Davidson graduates have gotten pretty
accustomed to handling.

Golfers finish eighth at Wofford, now prepare for SoCon tourney
By Perry Lewis
Staff Writer

The golf team tied for eighth place in the Wofford Invitational this past weekend at the Carolina Country Club in
Spartanburg, S.C. The Wildcats posted a 616 for the tournament. “As a team we really didn’t play that well, but
we are looking for a strong finish in the conference tournament,” said Dan Walker ’05. Walker led the charge for
the ’Cats by carding a two-round total of 151 and placing 23rd overall. “I feel that I played well, but
not great. I made a couple of bad shots that really cost me a lot of strokes,” he said. Christian
Davis ’06 finished three shots behind Walker, shooting a two-day total of 154. Davis placed 36th overall. Dan Koernke ’05
placed 39th, firing a two-day total of 155. The tournament was originally scheduled to be 54 holes, but due to
wet course conditions it was shortened to 36. “With the shortened tournament, it really cut back on our chances to
make up for our mistakes, just cigaradieet my game,” Walker said. Maryland and UNCW won the tournament, shooting a four-over-par
580. Southern Conference foes Wofford and Furman finished ahead of the Wildcats, with Wofford placing fifth and Furman seventh. Tim
Kane of Maryland won individual honors by shooting six strokes under par. Only three players scored under par.

With the Southern Conference Tournament coming up, the Wildcats are looking for a strong performance. “This has been a disappointing
spring season for us, and we haven’t been able to play up to our potential. We are just going to
have to go out and play well,” Walker said. The Wildcats had hoped for a better finish. “We want to
play well in every tournament and perform our best, especially in such a good tournament. We didn’t see this as
a tune-up for the conference tournament; we want to play our best every time we play,” Walker said. The Wildcats
hope to extend their season with a successful conference tournament. “In our position, we must win the conference tournament to
extend our season, but we have the ability to play well so we will just have to see how it
plays out,” Walker said. The Wildcats look to extend the season at the Southern Conference Tournament at Forest Heights Country
Club in Statesboro, Ga., on April 18-20.
