Football holds spring practice

with eye toward tough schedule

By WALKER SAIK

Staff Writer

The newly released 2003 Davidson football schedule comes as no pushover.

Featuring the defending champions of the Pioneer Football League (PFL), Dayton, on Homecoming Weekend in addition to the only three
Wildcat losses in 2002 (VMI, Morehead State, and Georgetown), the 2003 schedule will be a challenge.

“We are a I-AA non-scholarship football program and are now playing a schedule that reflects that,” said head coach Michael
Toop. “Some of our more traditional rivals do not want to play us anymore [as] that tends to happen when
you have success against them.”

The players agreed.

“The upcoming schedule is a lot more difficult than it has been the past three years, but that reflects the
progress that we are making as a program,” said junior wide receiver Chris Monfiletto.

Offensive lineman Tim Robertson ’04 agreed, saying, “The upgrades that our schedule has gotten since I’ve been here are great
because they allow for great games against great competition.”

Teams omitted from the 2002 schedule include Newberry, Valparaiso, and Wesley. Davidson averaged 25-point victories over those three opponents.

Regarding the tough Homecoming match-up, Toop said, “Homecoming is often used as a means of satisfying the alumni by scheduling
an ‘easier’ opponent.

“That was not the case last year and obviously isn’t the case this year and won’t be in years to
come. Dayton is without question the class of the league and will be quite formidable.

“It’s a tough schedule, but it is one the program has evolved into.”

“It is not just about scheduling difficult teams, though,” added Monfiletto, “but beating them. We have a good opportunity to
do that next year.”

With the PFL games all clumped in a three-week October stretch, Davidson’s status as a South Division championship contender will
be determined with nearly a month left in the season.

Monfiletto showed no fear, however, in saying, “It really doesn’t matter when the PFL games are scheduled because we plan
on winning them all, no matter when they occur.”

Added Toop, “The bottom line is our divisional games against Jacksonville and Morehead are the most important due to championship
game ramifications. Those two, along with Austin Peay, we have to win.”

With the loss of several of their top players from a season ago, including quarterback Paul Nichols ’03, PFL South
Defensive Player of the Year Jim Carney ’03, and trusty kicker Daniel Hanks ’03, the team will surely have a
new look.

No one seems overly concerned, though.

“[The graduating seniors] have been a huge part of the program’s rise,” explained Robertson, “but there are some eager guys
ready to take up where the seniors left off.”

“We have a whole new crop of great leaders and great role models next year,” added Monfiletto.

“Barrett Johnson is the best receiver in the Pioneer League. Damion White and Tommy Cook are the two most athletically
talented quarterbacks in the league, and we have them both.

“Our defense is better than ever, and our special teams look strong as well,” he said.

As they did last season, the Wildcats will open the season against VMI, except this time at home. Last year,
they started on the road and lost 41-16, followed by the home opener against PFL-member Jacksonville, a 28-10 win.

“Everyone is already chomping at the bit for VMI to roll around,” said Robertson. “We want to get out of
the gate quickly against a good VMI team.”

The squad hopes to use those two season-opening home games as a springboard to a first-place finish. Expectations are high,
and players say they are thirsty for a trip to the PFL championship.

“I expect us to play at 100 percent effort, with intelligence, focus, and at a high level of performance. If
we do those things, wins will take care of themselves,” said Toop. “If the team gives us everything they have,
I will be satisfied regardless of the score.

“But make no mistakes: I expect to win every Saturday.”

Charlotte, NC

Analysis: White could be Davidson’s most versatile athlete. He didn't play football his freshman year, instead walking on to the
basketball team, but he displayed a strong arm and great scrambling ability in limited action last season.

Co-captain Erskine Wells ’03 commented on the ability of the younger players to prevail in big situations, saying, “The maturity
of the underclassmen is beyond their years.”

Sophomores Sam Navarro and Michael Muniz have also come up big at the plate when the team has needed them.

“Sam has a different role on the team this year,” said Wells.

Conference Achievements of the Week:

As of the end of last week, Rice, a senior co-captain, leads the nation in forced turnovers, averaging 3.67 per
game.

Golf at Wofford Invitational (through Saturday)
Women's Tennis at Wofford
Baseball vs. The Citadel
Track and Field at Charlotte Invitational
Lacrosse vs. Virginia Tech
Men's Tennis at Wofford
Women's Tennis at Western Carolina
Women's Tennis at UNCG
Lacrosse at Vanderbilt

Hometown: Conway, S.C.
Major: English
