12 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2003

Football tops Butler 45-27

Photo by Willis Glassgow

Receiver Barrett Johnson ’04 tied a school record with 3 TD receptions against Butler

Down 18 at the half, Wildcats score 36 unanswered points to earn season's first victory

By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

Zero and three and down 27-9 at halftime on the road at the opponent’s homecoming, no one in the Davidson locker room said a whole lot.

“Two out of the last three weeks, we have gone to the locker room down and there has been a lot of inspirational talking and yelling, but [against Butler] it was basically silent,” said wide receiver Barrett Johnson ’04.

Within the silence, there must have been an inward revelation because the ’Cats came out roaring in the second half, scoring 36 unanswered points as each aspect of the team—offense, defense, and special teams—played nearly flawless ball, shocking Butler and stealing the homecoming celebrations for their ride back to Davidson.

With Tom Cook sidelined with a separated shoulder, Damion White ’05 ran the offense, completing 15 of 27 passes for 232 yards, four touchdowns, and three interceptions. His legs gave the offense a new threat, as the team suddenly avoided a single sack after allowing 22 in the first three games. He also ran for 49 yards on 10 carries, keeping the defense honest and letting receivers get open down the field.

“Damion made good decisions as to where he was throwing the ball in the second half. We also protected better without question,” said head coach Mike Toop.

“Damion definitely adds a whole other dimension to our offense,” commented Johnson. “He has the ability to scramble and pick up positive yardage very well when a play isn’t there. A mobile quarterback always keeps the defense on their heels.”

White and Johnson combined to set the tone for the second half. White set loose a 52-yard completion to Johnson on the first play from scrimmage to get the ’Cats down to the Butler 13. It did not take long for White to find Johnson again—this time in the endzone—to pull the ’Cats to within twelve. The two-point conversion failed to leave the score at 27-15—for the meantime at least.

The special teams and defense also stepped it up. Chris Costello ’04, the heart of a stellar special teams that has racked up kudos for its consistent play, kicked a field goal in the first half and landed a punt on the Butler 1, which was downed by Yeatts Anderson ’06, midway through the third quarter. After a defensive hold, the ’Cats got great field position from Anderson’s punt return and capped the drive off with Johnson’s third touchdown reception of the game, tying a Davidson record. Another defensive stop led to a botched punt into Butler’s endzone, where Davidson special teams clobbered the Butler players to secure the safety. A second strong return by Anderson set up the ’Cats to take a 31-27 lead on White’s pass to Jordan Sundheim ’06.

“The offense responded to some big plays by the defense and special teams in the first half, and the defense responded to some big plays and drives by the offense in the second half,” said Johnson on the defensive and special teams play.

“We just made plays which we hadn’t made in three and a half games on defense,” said Toop. “It wasn’t a matter of changing coaching schemes; they just decided to make plays, and they did.”

A fourteen-play, 98-yard drive, capped by a ten-yard rush by John Leverett ’05, served as the dagger in the heart for the Bulldogs. The ’Cats ate up a valuable seven minutes off the clock, leaving Butler without much room to climb out of the quicksand in which they suddenly found themselves.

“That was killer—just killer,” exclaimed Toop on the long drive.

Darryl Childers ’04 then made sure to crush Butler’s hopes completely, sacking the QB on two consecutive plays, causing a fumble that handed Davidson the ball and put them in prime position for yet another touchdown run byLeverett. The first half was not as pretty. Holding onto a close 14-9 deficit, the ‘Cats watched the Bulldogs march down the field on an impressive 70-yard drive to tack on another seven with just over a minute and a half left in the half. White was picked off for the third—and last—time of the game on the first play of the next possession, setting up Butler for their last points of the game. “I give all the credit to the players,” said Toop about the victory. “In that kind of environment, to come back and score 36 points to win is huge. It certainly made a nine and a half hour bus trip more enjoyable.” Crediting the win to the defense, offensive line, and Costello especially, Johnson realizes the utter difficulty in such a comeback on an opponent’s field at their homecoming. “Before the game Coach Toop told us to ‘Crash the party,’ and that’s exactly what we did,” Johnson said. “It really says a lot about a team that can bounce back from an 0-3 start and a poor first half in the fourth game, and then go out in the second half and dominate in all three phases of the game.”

By Erin DELK
Staff Columnist

Not surprisingly, my first experience with a professional soccer game was not in America. My family and I were visiting England for a week, and my father miraculously found tickets for us to an Arsenal game. Since my professional soccer knowledge at age 11 left much to be desired, I had no understanding of the strict codes regarding English soccer. If you like Arsenal, which we did since we were ignorant Americans who only recognized the big-name teams, then you do NOT sit anywhere near the other team’s fans. That was our first mistake. Our second was to actually cheer, out loud, for Arsenal while sitting in the home team’s section. Three thrown drinks and a near fistfight between my father and a drunken Englishman later, the game was over. I have no idea who won.

While my near-death experience in an English soccer stadium was not the main catalyst for my growing obsession with soccer, it did open my eyes to a sports world foreign to America. Soccer is to England as football, basketball, and baseball, take your pick, are to America. On the plane ride back to the US, I lamented, as best as an 11-year-old can, the fact that this passion for soccer was practically non-existent here. Where were these fans? More importantly, where were these teams?

Luckily, a lot has changed in the past ten years. While I have yet to see regular fights break out at MLS games, the dramatic increase in popularity and legitimacy of soccer on the home front has created a new American pastime. Both girls’ and boys’ teams travel across the country for tournaments, and children can play for not one, but two out-of-school teams: their club and a professional development league (PDL) team. Kids all around the country stayed up last summer into the wee hours of the morning to watch the men’s World Cup broadcasts and finally see their team make it all the way to the quarterfinals. Soccer has even infiltrated our language.

Tiffany Homan ’05
Women’s Field Hockey
Hometown: Carlisle, PA
Major: Political Science

Field hockey is currently on its longest winning streak in three years thanks to the stellar play of midfielder Tiffany Homan. Having scored four goals in her last two games, Homan was named NorPac Offensive Player of the Week.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Anne Stevens ’07 scored her first collegiate goal in Sunday’s soccer match with Western Carolina. In a game deadlocked at 0-0, Stevens found a loose ball outside the box and launched a 25-yard blast into the upper left corner of the net. The goal, scored in the 73rd minute, was enough to lift the ’Cats to a 1-0 victory in their first conference game of the season. Coming off a difficult loss to USC, Stevens was able to refocus the team and give it a promising start to conference play.