For you sports fans... Davis’ picks of the week

SPORTS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2003

Michigan/Ohio St., Harvard/Yale, Davidson/Furman? With rivalry weekend coming up, Davidson fans are undoubtedly feeling a little left out. While the
season has already ended for our football team, fans at schools like Ohio State, Clemson, and Auburn will be busy
watching their teams compete against their most hated adversaries on Saturday. Win or lose, rivalry games are always among the
most memorable and exciting of the year. It doesn’t matter what sport or what week or what kind of impact
the game will have on the standings. Playing against an arch-nemesis is always a big deal, whether your team is
undefeated or out of contention. It’s the perfect way to save a sad season or make a great one even
better.

Why don’t Davidson teams have this chance? Why can’t our football team resurrect their season with a win against our
most hated rival? Because we don’t have one. Davidson has no real rivalries. Some might say it’s because we’re such
a small school, but Amherst and Williams, two Div. III schools, were recently listed by ESPN as having the 14th-best
rivalry in college football. Harvard/Yale was ranked No. 6. Others might say that we do have legitimate rivals, pointing to
quasi-rival schools like Charlotte or even Georgetown. The most vengeful among us might even cite Duke as a rival, undoubtedly
angered over their failed attempts at admission. But Charlotte is a completely different type of school, Georgetown doesn’t care about
us, and Davidson athletics are not even close to the level of Duke’s. Rivalries shouldn’t be based solely on SAT
scores, though the two schools should ideally be very similar.

Brave Gladiators, the movie. No, this flick didn’t star Russell Crowe (I don’t think). It was just one of the
six porno movies the Namibian Women’s National soccer team watched the night prior to their Olympic qualifying match with South
Africa. Unfortunately, the stimulating movies didn’t prove a good pre-game activity; the team lost 13-0 to the South African side.
Preparing for sports tournaments can consist of many activities. Besides watching porno, most teams train two times a day and
participate in team bonding events. The South African Rugby team had different plans to prepare themselves for the Rugby World
Cup. Reports escaped from the team of their unusual training methods. Just some activities that took place: players stripped naked
and were forced to crawl across gravel, and repeat; players were thrown into African bushes and forced to do physical
labor such as carry poles, tires, and bags, all decorated with New Zealand flags; they again had to get naked
and pump up Rugby balls in freezing cold water. The team captain refused and was forced back in the water
at gunpoint. The last night of the camp the players spent, yes, naked in holes where they were periodically doused
with ice. Apparently, New Zealand actually practiced their sport in preparation and beat South Africa in the quarterfinals, 29-9.

Davidson might be in trouble here. While Williams and Amherst are close to each other in location (both are in
Massachusetts), academics (the top two liberal arts colleges in the country, according to US News), and athletics (Div. III), there
are no schools that bear such a striking resemblance to Davidson. Aside from Davidson, of the top 42 liberal arts
colleges in the nation, none are in the South except for No. 12 Washington & Lee. Like Davidson, it boasts
an Honor Code and some good ole’ Southern heritage. Unfortunately, though, the school competes on the Div. II level. The
next closest school, academically, is Furman, at No. 43, and it’s only two hours away in Greenville, S.C. Perhaps the
Paladins are our best and only chance at having a decent rival. They compete in the Southern Conference, along with
most Davidson teams, and the move of men’s basketball to Furman’s South Division in the SoCon could spice things up
significantly. The recent SoCon soccer tournament match-up between Davidson and Furman, already rivals of sorts in soccer, shows that these
two teams, at least, are ready to take the rivalry idea to a new level. After falling behind in the
game, Furman began playing dirty, drawing two yellow cards and injuring Nahum Navas '06 on a cheap shot. Maybe this
intensity could carry over.Over into basketball season when the men play Furman at home on Feb. 28 in the last
game of the regular season and the women meet the Paladins in Belk Arena on Jan. 14. The tennis teams,
which already consider Furman a rival, take on the soon-to-be-hated Purple and White at home on March 21. Some club
sports already have things taken care of, as Furman is rugby’s biggest league rival and hard feelings still exist from
a Davidson player sending a Paladin into a coma two years ago and another breaking someone’s nose last spring. With
luck, when the baseball team faces Furman here at Davidson for a May 4-6 series, the right field cheering section
could erupt with hatred and anti-Furman school spirit. After all, it’s up to the fans as well as the players
to get the rivalry started and keep it going. Playing the Paladins once a year in football would really complete
the rivalry, but for now we’ll have to be happy with what we have. We can talk to the football
program once we get things going. So spread the word. The Davidson/Furman rivalry is on. I’ll be sending a copy
of this issue to their sports editor. Let’s beat those purple patsies! Or, we could keep rooting for other schools
to beat up on Duke. Thanks to Richard Connolly '05 for the article idea.

Steroids, jockeys and other hullabaloo and THG appear all over newspapers and websites across the globe. The problems being the
use of drugs, players missing drug tests, and players paying for ways to cover up their cheating. The newest addition
to the list of drug testing problems: not being able to provide enough urine! British jockey Emmett Stack received a
14-day suspension from the British Jockey Club for failure to provide the minimum amount of urine, 70 milliliters; however, the
little urine that he did provide was tested negative.

Freddie Adu, dubbed the next Pele, has signed a professional contract. Adu, who turns 15 next June, signed a six-year
deal with D.C. United of the MLS. He is the youngest athlete to play professional sports in the United States
since fourteen-year-old Fred Chapman pitched in the major leagues in 1887.

Note to chess players: keep your cellular phones in the locker room. Ukrainian, Ruslan Ponomariov was disqualified from the European
Team Championships in Bulgaria when his cell phone rang during his match with Sweden. This is a first for a
major chess competition.

Volleyball splits to close out regular season
By Wilson McCrory
Staff Writer

The Wildcats entered the final weekend of the regular season looking for a little momentum before the Southern Conference tournament,
and they managed to find some bright spots in the 1-1 split against Furman and Wofford. Against the Paladins on
Saturday, Davidson jumped out to a quick 1-0 lead by registering a high .469 team attack percentage in the first
frame. The Wildcats could not maintain that clip in the second and third games of the match, though, as the
Furman offense came alive in posting 30-27 and 30-14 victories. Davidson bounced back to win the fourth game of the
match and appeared to have the upper hand in the fifth and decisive frame when the ’Cats jumped to a
5-0 lead in the game’s 15. Seven consecutive Paladin points, however, including four on Davidson attack errors, effectively ended the
match for the ’Cats, as Furman went on to the 15-12 (3-2) victory.

In the losing effort, Latisha Chapman ’04 established a new Wildcat single-season record with 561 kills, eclipsing the mark of
559 set by Mara Mordini ’01 in 2000. For the match, Liz Williamson ’07 led the ’Cats with 17 kills,
while Chapman chipped in 13.

In the final match of the regular season, Davidson traveled to Spartanburg, S.C., to face the Wofford Terriers, a team
the Wildcats had beaten in 17 successive opportunities. That streak would not come to an end on Sunday, as the
’Cats cruised to the 3-0 (32-30, 30-18, 30-27) sweep to extend the total to 18. It was a great finale
for the Davidson offense, as the team notched a season-high .336 attack percentage in the victory, including a .571 mark
by Chapman. Jenny Mills ’07 and Nicole Tonelli ’04 also finished above the .500 mark on attack, with nine and
four kills, respectively.

The win at Wofford marked a positive finish to the rough 2003 season and perhaps provided something to build on
for the SoCon tournament this weekend in Chattanooga. Davidson, the South Division’s fourth seed, will face Appalachian State, the North’s
first seed, on Friday in the quarterfinals of the single-elimination tournament.
