THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2003

Vamanos revamped for Spring
Student-driven van will shuttle students to lake campus

By BRANDON CARROLL
News Editor

Next semester, the student government will once again try to expand the service of the Vamanos Van to Davidson’s Lake Campus. A project initially conceived in Fall 2002 proposed the student-driven shuttle be available to transport students to the Lake Campus on warm, sunny afternoons. Kevin Epps ’03 managed the van for SGA at the time. SGA allocated money in its Rides Committee to pay for a student driver. Apparently, a lack of student interest scuttled the program, and it remained abandoned until two weeks ago.

Walker Saik ’06 pushed the SGA this semester to reauthorize the program, under volunteer drivers. Saik is the Rides Committee Chair of SGA. He took over responsibility for the Vamanos Van from Epps last fall while a freshman senator. Next spring, the van will run to and from the Lake Campus on Friday afternoons, ferrying students from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m.

A dry run for the program was attempted two weeks ago. Unfortunately, a cold front sent temperatures into unseasonably low levels and chilled interest and participation. No one used the van during the 1 to 3 p.m. time period, prompting the program to be cancelled during the 3 to 4 p.m. shift. A dozen or so riders used the van when service resumed from 4 until 6 p.m. Saik attributes the difficulty to a lack of awareness, not a dearth of potential enthusiasm.

“The main concern was that nobody would want to do it,” Saik said, describing his deliberations with the Senate. “The student body gave little attention to it when Epps tried to get it going.

“My reaction was as a freshman that I had no idea that the Vamanos Van went to the Lake Campus. I’m not sure if it ever did. I thought if we could hype it up enough, we could get people excited about it, fill the van, get a good bit of Davidson students out at the Lake Campus together. Between cold weather, lack of attention, lack of advertising—a number of factors—we basically flopped two weeks ago when we did it. Hopefully we can do a better job with it.”

The added service will cost nothing to SGA. If an organization uses the vehicle for more than four hours, Physical Plant charges it as if it was out the entire day. Because the van is already used six hours on Friday evenings, the afternoon usage is subsequently free.

While SGA and Patterson Court organizations drive the van on its usual Thursday, Friday, and Saturday 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. shifts, there are no plans to involve Patterson Court organizations in the Friday afternoon shuttle. Currently, SGA members will continue to drive the van on a rotating basis, though Saik will look to other on-campus organizations to co-sponsor events at the Lake Campus, and share some of the manpower burden as well.

Saik said, “I’m meeting with Sterling Martin (the Director of the Lake Campus) and I’m hoping to get fun activities sponsored out there. We’ll have each week a sponsored activity. Come tube atthe lake campus, come sail at the lake campus, beach volleyball tournaments or something like that... We’re hoping it will catch on. “I’ve always wanted to expand the Vamanos’ capabilities. I think it would be great if the Lake Campus could become the community place on Friday afternoons where people could have fun and play games. Hopefully, we’ll be able to get it moving when the nice weather comes around next spring.”

THE MOVEMENT
By Alicia JANOS
Staff Writer

A resolution recently passed by the SGA will allow any campus student organization the ability to apply for additional funding in the start-up of their organization, an amendment that will greatly benefit many groups in their first campus publication. One of the main responsibilities of the SGA is to charter new organizations on campus, a specific process that is detailed in existing bylaws.

In current SGA bylaws, student-run organizations are categorized into one of two groups, with Class I organizations receiving a maximum of $250 for start-up funding, and Class II organizations allotted an unlimited amount of money. While the amount of $250 was chosen as basic funding to support any starter organization’s first publication, the limit has already proved to be a barrier for such organizations as the Purple Bunnies and Third Person, who are in need of additional funds. The Purple Bunnies, who requested $800 for starter funding, received $500 from the SGA. Third Person is now in need of $700 to promote the publication.

According to SGA President Charles Washington ’04, the money is designed to give new organizations a chance by paying for their first publication. Given the increasing requests to receive more than the typical $250, a resolution was needed to account for this trend. Washington supports this resolution since currently, if an organization is in need of more than $250, “there is no way for us to legally give them money.” However, once the SGA meets with the organization for the second time, during which the organization presents “good ideas and a game plan,” the SGA feels that they deserve the necessary additional money.

The new resolution to Article IX, E, 1 of the SGA Bylaws now reads, “In cases where the nature of the new organization requires more than the typical $250 start-up allocation, the ATC, with the approval of the SEC, may present a resolution to the Senate requesting additional funds for that organization.” These organizations, labeled as Chartered Class II by the SGA Senate, will now possess the ability to meet with the SGA and apply for additional funding for start-up dues. This resolution differs from Class I organizations in that it adds the extra level of approval from the SEC when deciding whether or not an organization should receive additional money, and does not limit the organization to a maximum of $250. When asked how this resolution will change future procedures, Washington responded, “Hopefully it won’t change too much at all,” but will simply make it easier for new organizations to get started on campus.

SCHEDULE OF APPLICATION DEADLINE: FOR NATIONAL FUNDING October 24