The First Class U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY" @ DAVIDSON COLLEGE
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2003 VOLUME 95, NUMBER 1

Cosby show to break ‘college rock’ trend
By Caroline K. HAUSER Managing Editor

He doesn’t do encores. In a May 2003 interview with Readers’ Digest, Bill Cosby explained, “When I perform, I never come back for an encore, because I have said all I wanted to say for that particular act.” This won’t be the only difference from recent concerts. When a student survey ranked Cosby eighth on a list of potential performers, “the timing just seemed right” to bring a comedy show to Davidson said Lee Ann Bannerman, Assistant Director of Union Programs. “We’ve been wanting to do comedy for a long time,” she said, “and when you’re talking comedy, there just isn’t anybody else that comes close. Cosby is the king. In the industry, there’s nobody bigger.” Some, of course, were surprised that the fall concert wouldn’t feature a musical act. Concert Committee Chair Liz Smith ’04 explains, “We see Cosby, page 4

Record enrollment strains campus resources
Orientation 2003

Largest freshman class ever surprises Admissions, puts pressure on Residence Life
By Ros HEDRICK Staff Writer

As the new semester begins and students settle back into college life, they may notice more new faces than usual around campus. A sudden increase in Davidson’s on-campus population, caused partially by a higher-than-expected admissions yield in the class of 2007, has been the focus of controversy early in the semester. School officials estimate that approximately 50 more students than usual requested to live on campus this semester, including first-year students and upperclassmen who decided not to go abroad or to live off-campus. The number of students living on-campus has been kept in check in recent years through careful estimates of the sizes of incoming classes. This year’s class size, however, exceeded all expectations. “Essentially, more students said ‘yes’ to us than we expected this year,” says Dean of Admissions Nancy Cable. The Admissions Office aims for 465 to 475 enrollments per class, according to Cable. The class of 2007 yielded 492, as compared to the 468 students in the class of 2006 and the 475 in the class of 2005. Cable also reports a 19 percent increase in the number of applicants to this year’s class. 3,927 students applied to the class of ’07; of these, 31.8 percent were admitted, compared to the 34.4 percent admission rate of the class of ’06. “The economy was showing weakness, and the quality of the applicants was up from the year before,” says Cable. “All indicators showed that there would be fewer enrollments, see Overenrollment, page 4

Cafe alters meal plan options
By Lesli HEMPSON Staff Writer

Upon returning to Davidson last weekend, many students were surprised to discover that they could no longer use their meal plan to purchase pre-packaged items from the Union Cafe. Under a policy referred to as Meal Plan Equivalency, students are permitted to utilize their meal plan at the Cafe from 6 to 8 p.m. eachevening. Auxiliary Services officials reviewed this policy over the summer, and they decided to limit the items that students could acquire. Although meal plan equivalency continues to cover bottled beverages, baked goods, and other items prepared by the Cafe, it now excludes pre-packaged items, such as energy bars, potato chips, and yogurt. Richard Terry, Director of Auxiliary Services, explained that a committee made these changes in an attempt to preserve the original intent of the meal plan. The policy was created so that students, particularly athletes, could see Cafe, page 4.

Ten Odyssey participants made creative entrances to Freshman Orientation by paddling 125 miles along the Catawba River to Lake Norman. Find full coverage of Orientation activities on pages 2 and 3.

ITS: We can’t combat viruses alone
Nation-wide spread of Internet worms strike campus; students asked to update computers to fight back
By Matt Garfield
Editor

Davidson ITS officials have a message for students frustrated by faulty Internet and e-mail access over the past week: Protect your computers, or expect more of the same problems. Three Internet viruses have struck the campus network over the past month, creating headaches for students and staff by blocking access to the Web for hours at a time. More viruses will crop up unless students take the time to be “good network citizens” by installing the anti-virus CD “patch” distributed by ITS, says Marcia Makl, ITS Director of Networks and Systems.

ITS technicians worked late into the night and even on several weekends recently to combat the viruses, but Makl said other schools have had even more trouble. “We worked hard and fast and had the CDs waiting, but we still don’t have it contained yet,” she said. “[But] we have done much better than most.”

The three viruses are only the latest signs of a growing problem facing computer networks around the nation: isolated “hackers” who design viruses that can block Internet access to millions of users. Davidson’s recent network problems began with the MSBlast worm, developed by a teenager in Minnesota who was arrested last week. The CD that ITS distributed to arriving students last week was aimed at combating that virus. The so-called Nachi worm, even more problematic than its MSBlast predecessor, emerged last Thursday, and is now coming under control, says Makl. Finally, an e-mail virus caused 40,000 “spoof” e-mails to circulate in Outlook mailboxes, but Makl says ITS scanners have blocked most of those from doing damage.

The key, she said, is to pay attention to the almost daily e-mails sent out by ITS Director John Casey, and make sure to install the virus-fighting CD. “Students have to have up-to-date anti-virus applications,” Makl said. “We’re not trying to target students. We’re targeting misbehaved computers. We’re going to have to protect the rest of the campus.”

SPORTS: Football falls to Wingate in opener
Cannon chills out at the Penguin Palace, PAGE 8
Why you should care about the Wildcats, SPORTS, PAGE 9