By JEFF Davis
Staff Writer

In a crucial series with the East Tennessee State Bucs, the ’Cats came away with one win and two losses;
results good enough to keep them tied with ETSU for eighth place in the Southern Conference. With the final playoff
spot on the line, if the ’Cats remain tied with ETSU, they would lose the first tiebreaker; ETSU having won
two out of the three games.

In game one on Friday night, a Buc’s grand slam in the sixth inning proved too much for the ’Cats
to handle as they lost 7-5. The ’Cats pressured the Bucs with a three-run fifth inning which saw both Justin
Hartanov ’05 and Michael Muniz ’05 double, and Jay Heafner ’06 drive in two runs with a single up the
middle. Leading 5-3 in the sixth, the ’Cats' victory hopes were diminished with a well-hit ball that caught the wind
and sailed over the fence, giving ETSU a 7-5 lead.

“A fly ball that got up in the wind was the difference,” said Coach Cooke. “I thought both teams played
good defense; it was a fun game to watch.”

Andy Carter ’05 pitched a season-high 7.1 innings but picked up the loss after giving up six earned runs. He
did strike out eight, tying the season high by a Davidson pitcher. Heafner led the ’Cats with four hits and
two RBIs, and Eli Benefield ’05 contributed three hits, two runs scored, and one RBI. Overall, the ’Cats amassed 14
hits but managed to leave 11 runners on base.

Game two of the series was won by the ’Cats in the bottom of the ninth with two outs. “Saturday’s
game was a great one for the baseball purist,” said Cooke, “as it had some good pitching, some great defense
and then, with our trailing by one with two outs in the ninth, we scored seven runs.”

Trailing 6-5, Erskine Wells ’03 started the last-chance comeback with a single up the middle scoring Sam Navarro ’05. D.J.
Dailey ’04 later singled in a run, and Benefield cleared the bases with a double off the wall. Timely hitting
was the answer as the ’Cats enjoyed their biggest inning of the season in the last inning of the game.
Starting pitcher Derrick Wolpert ’03 couldn’t have been more pleased with the run support he and winning pitcher Stephen Choate
’03 received.

“We stepped up and met the challenge that was before us,” said Wolpert. “The game was a battle back and
forth all game. We did what it took to win the game.”

Wolpert pitched 6.2 innings surrendering nine hits, three earned runs, while striking out six. Choate forced one batter to ground
into a double play to earn the win, his first of the year. Dailey collected three hits, four RBIs, and
one run scored. Brett Peiffer ’04 added three hits, two RBIs, and two runs scored.

Game three proved a disappointment as the ’Cats lost the rubber match 16-3. In the game, ETSU pounced on everything
the Davidson pitchers had to offer and totaled 20 hits for the game. The ’Cats weren’t bad from the plate
themselves, scattering 11 hits, but couldn’t contain ETSU’s offense.

“We scratched and clawed all game,” said Cooke. “We just couldn’t find enough runs.”

With six conference games remaining for the ’Cats, a three-game series with Furman could be the deciding factor in whether
the Davidson baseball team earns a berth to the conference tournament.three-game series left, against Furman and Georgia Southern. The ’Cats
play Furman at home on May 2 at 7 p.m., May 3 at 2 p.m., and May 4 at 1
p.m.

Haywood earns all-SoCon Honors

Junior Rob Haywood was voted first team all-conference by the Southern Conference coaches last week. Haywood, who finished the season
with a 13-7 record, played consistently throughout the season and is the first Wildcat to make all-conference since the duo
of Scott Briggs and Justin Sutherland in 1999. Throughout his career at Davidson, Haywood has always put in extra time
and has vastly improved his game since freshman year. Haywood admitted that he was a little surprised about the award
but said, “I am very honored that the SoCon coaches think so much of me and this award belongs just
as much to the team as it does to me. Without them backing me, I would not have won all
of the matches that I pulled out.”

Throughout the season, Haywood played tight, long matches, usually coming up big in the third set. Always modest about his
matches, Haywood admitted that one of his favorite matches was against South Carolina, a match that he narrowly lost in
three sets. At the time of the match against the Gamecocks, USC was ranked 20th in the nation. By taking
their number one player to three sets, Haywood showed that he has the game to compete with the best.

- by Webster Harrison

Golf, from page 14

Wildcats, Coach Tim Straub was named Southern Conference Coach of the Year. Straub is the first coach of the Wildcats
to ever win the award, which began in 1978. Straub was recognized as Coach of the Year for the outstanding
success he had with such a young team. “I thought it was really awesome for Coach. The award just goes
to show how much hard work he has put into this program and the improvement he has created over the
past three seasons. He is really respected by his peers,” Dillon said. “Coach definitely deserved the recognition he received through
his hard work this season. He gives a lot to the team, and we weren’t surprised that he won the
award,” Davis added.

Coming off the second most successful season in Davidson golf history, the Wildcats are anxious to start a new season.
In addition to a stellar 2002-2003 season, Coach Straub is bringing in a superb recruiting class. The highlight of the
recruiting class is Alex Knoll from Bethlehem, Pa. Knoll was the 2002 Eastern Pennsylvania Amateur Champion and qualified for the
United States Junior Amateur Championships. Stephen Mayo from Austin, Texas, is another promising recruit. Mayo was the winner of the
Future Collegiate World Tour. Christian Gallon, a second place finisher at the regionals of the 2002 PIAA State Championship, rounds
out a superb recruiting class for the Wildcats. “Only losing one senior, all three of these players will help us
fill that void. We are a very young team and the addition of these individuals will increase our talent level,”
Straub said.

Although the 2003 season has just been completed, the Wildcats are still looking forward to next season. “I am really
looking. We are only losing...
