Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

By Curtis SCHMADER
Arts and Living Editor

This past weekend some friends and I escaped Davidson’s coziness and drove to New York in what amounted to a
24-hour round trip split over two days. On Saturday night we slept at a Brooklyn apartment shared by two friends
who graduated from our fine college last May. On the whole, the two days we spent en route to, in,
and coming back from New York were physically cramped; five of us piled into the car we drove to the
city, and five of us slept in the apartment’s tiny living room. But psychologically, I mean mentally, or emotionally or
intellectually, the trip was expansive.

We saw the east coast in its full splendor—rolling hills, factories in the dawn, charming New Jersey—and we indulged in
mild sleaze, like eating at a Waffle House in...where was it? Somewhere in Virginia? When we arrived in New York
we traveled in a spiral until we reached our friends’ apartment, and once we found the place we walked a
couple of blocks and got some Chinese take-out for dinner—at least, most of us did. There was one fruit salad.
In the neighborhood where we stayed, which was home to a fleet of pink tricycles as well as two of
the scruffiest cats imaginable, there was a church with a sign admonishing us to “believe on the Lord.”

The reason we made the infernal 13-hour gallop to New York, however, was not to soak up the ambience of
some anonymous neighborhood in Brooklyn. A relatively little-known band called Television was playing at Irving Plaza in Manhattan for two
nights only—two nights after only a few very, very sporadic shows since 1993, the year of the band’s last world
tour. I say the band is little-known, which is true, but I firmly believe that Tom Verlaine and Richard Lloyd,
Television’s guitarists, are two of the most striking and poetic guitar players in rock history. Marquee Moon, their 1977 debut
album, is a landmark and should be owned by any rock guitar connoisseur. I had no idea whether or not
I would get another chance to see this band, so at 10:00 p.m. on Saturday night I found myself close
to the Irving Plaza stage, watching personal legends begin their set with a series of instrumental swells.

The concert very much mirrored my impressions of New York. Television’s songs, even more so live than on record, produced
a feeling of density and diffuseness at the same time, the same feeling I got as I was dwarfed by
the sky-reaching buildings that surrounded Irving Plaza. “Venus,” the second song the band played at the show, featured lovely lead
guitar lines that emerged from and submerged in the song’s propulsive rhythm section. The ten-minute-plus “Marquee Moon” consisted of interlocking
guitar, bass, and drum parts that, while spare on their own, created a pounding locomotive of a song while retaining
a sense of the ethereal. Other highlights, such as fan favorites “Little Johnny Jewel,” “See No Evil,” and “Prove It,”
hinged on the same fusion of the spectral and the grittiness of urban rock. Verlaine and Lloyd’s guitar solos were
alternately searching, punishing, haunting, and heavenly throughout the show. Lloyd’s execution was perfect as he strung together beautifully conceived phrases
and well-timed chaos while he gripped his guitar as if he were breaking it in like a wild stallion. Verlaine
took his time, his head bobbing up and down as he let his solos develop more gradually until they would
start to burst out of the neck of his guitar with a disturbing vengeance.

That’s what I heard, anyway. And I hope that’s what my friends heard. I do know that Verlaine tantalized us
with a “see you next year” at the end of the show. The subway ride from Manhattan to Brooklyn after
the concert was an extended moment of peace, the beginning of a long, slow denouement that would last until our
arrival back at Davidson’s bucolic wonderland. I nearly failed to notice the soldiers standing guard in the New York subway
stations, and I only once remembered that a large-scale anti-war protest had occurred in the city on the afternoon of
the Television concert. My traveling companions’ extreme opposition to the war in Iraq, the video-game style coverage of the conflict
on Fox News—all of it barely penetrated the reverie that enveloped me over the course of the weekend I saw
my favorite band.

Is this something I can afford to do right now? Is escapism not a horrible thing at the moment? What
do haunting guitar solos signify? Everything seems contaminated in life during wartime.

7:00 pm DCPC Sun 3/30 - Presented by Kristine Harrington
Mon 3/31 - Take Back the Night 7:30 pm Union 900 room
Tues 4/1 - Ron
Sat 4/12 - Sgt. Laney and Matt Hinson — 3:00-5:00 pm RapeAwareness Week Calendar of Events

— Thurs 3/27 - Carnation/Candlelight Opening Ceremony
A walk through campus to support survivors of rape and sexual assault

— Fri 3/28 - Luncheon Discussion
“Rape at Davidson”
“Sexual Ethics and Relationships in Our World Today”
7:00 pm Davidson Methodist Church

“Understand Acquaintance Rape: A Male Perspective"
Campbell — 7:30 pm Duke Family Performance Hall

Campus Safety Self-Defense Class
Note: Class size limited to 16. Please contact Mat Hinson (mhinson) to sign up.

---

"Hier" was a first for this tour and a first for Reynolds, and they segued it beautifully into the Willie
Nelson-esque “Grace Is Gone.” Reynolds played two solo songs of his own toward the end of the set. His first
eccentric jam received the night’s first standing ovation. The hoards of tailgaters seeking to rid their bladders of beer missed
out on some of the most impressive guitar work of the night.

It is far from a novel idea to complain about the crowds at Matthews and Reynolds’ acoustic shows, and certainly
there were more “loud-voice guys” and quiet songs interrupted by screams and hoots than I would have cared for. But
the crowd on Tuesday was attentive and quiet, and nearly every drunken outburst was echoed by a harmony of shushes.

While Matthews displayed his thankfulness with jovial stories and such quiet rarities as “Pay For What You Get” and “I’ll
Back You Up,” Reynolds let his guitar do the talking. And I just sat and listened and smiled like an
idiot.

Justin Neill ‘06

I had one concern before the show: how would Dave’s songs, which the audience has heard only with a full-blown
band, translate to two-guitar duets? The challenge of the acoustic artist is to create arrangements that are not too simple
and basic, but not too busy and complex. I left with no doubt that Dave and Tim knew how to
make magnificent music with such a simple set-up—I often forgot that they were the only ones playing.

Davidson hosted two great concerts in Belk Arena this year. While John Mayer is a great performer and has the
potential to someday be a truly eminent artist, Dave showed that he is one of the best popular artists many
of us will see in our lifetimes.

Derek Loh ‘04

I cheated. I got there late and left early. If I were a fair and honest reviewer, which I’m not,
I wouldn’t review the concert. I give it two out-of-tune acoustic guitars down. The woman sitting behind me, however, seemed
to enjoy the show. She laughed at every funny face and sang every lyric with Dave. It was like he
was singing and talking just to her. Just to her. She also shushed anyone who cheered during the quiet parts
of the concert. Shhhhh! Not while he’s playing...

This Dave-craze eludes me, but I do like that “Crash Into Me” song. What excited me more than the concert
was seeing the audience of 4,700. (Way to go Union Board.) It was a success for the school, and certainly
the best—or rather, most appropriate—concert of my Davidson tenure. Ludacris was a better show and experience, but “Gravedigger” sounds a
bit more at home with a Belk Arena crowd than “Ho” does.

I have no evidence to argue a case against D and his MB. That’s an issue of personal taste. But
disliking a concert is not. A smaller venue would have translated better the songs’ intimacy and would have avoided the
distractions of people walking up and down bleachers. Unfortunately, a smaller venue also would have been impossible. It’s a rare
and fortunate thing when a name as big as Dave Matthews comes to Davidson. And even for just that reason,
the concert—my sour attitude and out-of-tune acoustic guitars aside—was a victory, even if the hard benches numbed all sensation in
your behind.

---

What Do You Think?

What did you think about ‘Angels in America’?

“I thought it was performed very well by the actors, they did a really professional job of it. It was
very controversial I agree, but I thought it was very interesting. The fact that it had so much controversy surrounding
it inspired me to go see it.”
Ashley Barber ’05

“I thought it was very well presented. I applaud the fact that the actors were able to go out of
the way to bring out the issues such as why we should not be homophobic.”
Amartey Nuno-Amarteifio ’05

“I think the acting was excellent, but sometimes I feel like Kushner’s shock-factor does an injustice to the material that
he’s covering...I think he has some great points but you almost lose them in the more outrageous parts of the
play.”
Laura Gilbert ’06

“I was very impressed with the acting and the characters portrayed.”
Jaime Shelton ’05
