5 By Steve KaliskI Staff Writer

Upon leaving “The Matrix: Revolutions,” I actually felt pretty good about it. The special effects were amazing. I understood the
plot. The trilogy had resolved itself logically. I was entertained. In other words, there is not enough faint praise in
the world with which I can damn the franchise’s much-anticipated finale. If held at gunpoint and forced to choose between
a thumbs up or a thumbs down, I would recommend the film. It is sad that I would need such
a drastic scenario to do so. “The Matrix” used to be better than that.

Alternating abruptly between the most extreme shades of brilliance and wretchedness, “Revolutions” will probably disappoint more fans than it will
enthrall. Groupies who regarded the original film as a life-altering experience will no doubt suffer from the epiphany that the
phrase “just a movie” applies to this installment even more than “The Matrix: Reloaded.” Astoundingly straightforward, “Revolutions” never aspires to
the challenging intellectual levels of its predecessors. The machines are close to penetrating Zion. The renegade program Smith (the ever-cheeky
Hugo Weaving) has grown exponentially and is determined to conquer both the human and the machine world. Neo (Keanu Reeves),
who is still grappling with his totally cool One-ness, must save mankind from both of these evils.

The Wachowski brothers make two unconscionable decisions with “Revolutions” that automatically distance it from the greatness of the first film.
First, they all but abandon the signature, souped-up martial arts sequences that redefined the action genre and inspired an endless
barrage of tributes and parodies. This film exists almost entirely on a Lucasfilm plane of mechanical imagination. Granted, this more
straightforward approach to science fiction is executed to near perfection. On a technical level, the attack on Zion is every
bit as impressive as the battle of Helm’s Deep in “The Two Towers.” The sentinels, the machine world’s trademark destroyers,
look more like demonic jellyfish than ever, and their poetic assault on the underground city never outlasts its welcome.

The second and more dangerous of the two decisions is that the Wachowskis render “Reloaded” absolutely useless by ignoring most
of the philosophical threads that they wasted so much time developing in their first sequel. The fascinating implications of that
memorably confounding scene with the Architect are pushed to the side in favor of pure visual sensationalism. When the directors
do make an attempt at continuity between the two sequels, “Revolutions” bottoms out in cinematic incompetence. Judging from the film’s
abysmal first hour, you’d think the Wachowskis had never heard a solid line of dialogue or learned how to properly
develop a scene. This departure is even more of a debacle when you consider that the Wachowskis conceived both of
their sequels at the same time. Did they know that many of their fans would be disappointed by “Reloaded?” If
so, then what was the point of producing a trilogy? After seeing “Revolutions,” in which honestly not a whole lot
happens, you’ll wonder why they didn’t just resign themselves to making one follow-up. Oh yeah, money.

To continue my whining, Keanu Reeves has to be the worst actor in the universe. In the first film, Neo
was an oblivious idiot, so Keanu more or less delivered the performance of a lifetime. But now that we are
supposed to accept him as Jesus Christ, the transcendent savior of all humanity, he’s just impossible to bear. Not even
Laurence Fishburne, whose legendary Morpheus is reduced to a Lando Calrissian level of importance, can save his co-star.

If you haven’t yet seen “The Matrix Revolutions,” hopefully these observations will lower your expectations to such a point that
you can enjoy it. It’s not a bad movie. It’s just a reasonably effective science fiction story trapped in the
body of a possibly magnificent franchise.

The Matrix: Revolutions
Directed by: Andy and Larry Wachowski
Written by: The Wachowskis
Starring: Keanu Reeves, Carrie-Anne Moss, Laurence Fishburne, Hugo Weaving, Jada Pinkett-Smith
Running time: 129 minutes

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2003

By Christine Haycock Staff Writer

As Malachy McCourt puts it, ‘blaguard’ is “an affectionate term for the rowdy outgoing and sometimes drinking sort of boys,”
and a couple of these boys will be on campus this Saturday. Probably more than just a couple, according to
the definition, but the two I am speaking specifically of will be here performing in the hit comedy “A Couple
of Blaguards.” According to their family, the McCourtBrothers co-wrote this show to “cobble these stories into a script and tell
the world.” These stories speak to their Irish upbringing in Limerick—not huge events or spectacular revelations, but just the trivial
day-to-day comedy that shaped the lads into the men they are today, reminiscing about the old days. In fact, the
comedy and the Anglo-Irish language itself take center stage: the two men use no more than a table, some props,
and a couple of glasses of Guinness to bring the show to life. This show served as a springboard for
the brothers’ careers. Frank McCourt has since authored the bestsellers “Angela’s Ashes,” for which he won a Pulitzer Prize for
literature, and “’Tis.” His brother, Malachy McCourt, is the author of the bestseller “A Monk Swimming” and “Singing My Him
Song.” He is an accomplished actor on and off Broadway as well as in a number of movies, and his
most current role is that of Father Meehan on the HBO series, “Oz.”

The show will be at 8 p.m. this Saturday in the Duke Family Performance Hall. Though the show is usually
performed by Howard Platt and Mickey Kelly, Davidson is fortunate to have Malachy playing himself. Audience members are encouraged to
stick around after the show for a book signing by Malachy McCourt and a Guinness in the 900 Room with
the actors. The best seats in the house, the orchestra pit tickets, are only $10 for students.

Up and coming rockers ‘Kill Hannah’ to play 900 Room
By Curis Schmader, Arts & Living Editor

Some cities have been blessed at one time or another with nationally renowned rock music scenes. Chicago is not one
of these cities. While certain bands from Chicago have had breakthrough moments (Veruca Salt, Local H) or careers (Smashing Pumpkins),
the city has never attracted attention to its rock community in the same way that cities such as New York
or Seattle have in the past. This cold reality has made it tough going for bands in the Windy City,
but after years of hard work, Chicago-based rockers Kill Hannah may be poised for success on the national level. Currently
touring to support their major-label debut “For Never and Ever,” Kill Hannah will play a show for Davidson students this
Friday in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room at the Alvarez Student Union. The show begins at 10 p.m. and
admission is free.

In its present incarnation, Kill Hannah consists of singer/guitarist Mat Devine, guitarist/keyboardist Jon Radtke, guitarist Dan Wiese, bassist Greg Corner,
and drummer Garret Hammond. Though the band claims influences ranging from indie rock legends the Pixies and My Bloody Valentine
to megastars such as U2, the best point of reference for their sound is Smashing Pumpkins, who were at the
height of their popularity when Devine began assembling Kill Hannah’s original lineup in the mid-90s. Laden with sweetly melodic hooks,
drenched in glossy distortion and heavy drumming, and featuring Devine’s androgynous vocals, the songs on “For Never and Ever” are
the work of a band that has been honing its material for some time.

Kill Hannah have done just that, striving for nearly a decade to realize fully the sound they have achieved on
their major label debut. According to Devine, the group took a big step forward by signing with Atlantic Records. “Atlantic
has been really good to us,” he said over the phone last Friday. “The economics of a record like [‘For
Never and Ever’] make it impossible to accomplish without a professional studio.”

Yet the changes that come with wider exposure are always a potential source of friction between a band approaching the
big time and its diehard fans. Kill Hannah have built up a strong fan base in Chicago by playing show
after show at local clubs and by showing their appreciation for their audience after each gig—Devine says that the band
has “spent hours after every show meeting everyone, from day one.” As a result, the band now plays to a
capacity crowd whenever they headline in Chi-town, and they have no reason to believe that their fans will have any
qualms should their music reach a national audience. In the meantime, the band will try to make as many converts
as possible. “We want people to see a band that they can get excited about, and that they’ll want to
tell their friends about,” says Devine. This weekend will see whether Kill Hannah will win over some new fans at
Davidson.
