For you sports fans... picks of the week: the stands at one of James’ pay-per-view games.

Sports
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2003

Shag and Kobe should learn from LeBron

About a year ago, I thought LeBron James embodied all that was wrong with the NBA. The Hummer-driving high school hero was being touted as the number one pick in the 2003 draft before he even finished his senior year. The most hyped player in the basketball world was a year younger than me, and we both had the same amount of NBA, and even college, experience (none, in case you were wondering). I shook my head in disdain at the sight of Shaquille O’Neal watching in a few games. Just another example of an over-hyped and (soon to be) over-paid player being rewarded for skipping college and entering the pros based solely on his performance against 17 and 18-year-olds, I thought.

Maybe Shaq should watch James more closely. Just two days before the start of the NBA season, and a year after reporting to the 2002 Lakers camp “fat and out of shape,” in the words of Kobe Bryant, “Diesel” ignited yet another media controversy by publicly bashing Bryant for shooting too much and not being a team player. He went on to claim that the Lakers are his team. Bryant, the poster boy for the NBA before he admitted to adultery and was charged with rape this summer, responded by defying a team order and doing an interview with Jim Gray in which he blasted back at Shaq. These embarrassing actions directly contrast the professionalism and selflessness shown by veterans Karl Malone and Gary Payton, who took drastic pay cuts and agreed to play for the league minimum in order to help the Lakers win a championship this year. Both have acted as babysitters so far, trying to keep the crying and whining in the locker room and away from the newspapers.

James, meanwhile, has been a perfect professional in handling all of the hype surrounding his rookie campaign. After spending much of the summer personally donating athletic equipment to schools, he spent the preseason trying to ignore the attention and “stay focused” on improving his game and helping his team. Teammates have praised him for his passing skills and respect for the game. Instead of mouthing off to these teammates, James brings them doughnuts and carries their bags, in true rookie fashion. When asked about playing against the best players in the world, James responded, “There is no sense of intimidation. Just respect.” Shaq and Kobe could learn a lot from this kid. Maybe they belong on the court, not in the stands, at high school games. One thing is certain: James belongs in the NBA. He’ll be a welcome addition and a much-needed replacement as the biggest star in the game. (Source: USA Today)

Back to normalcy after last week’s baseball interviews, I would like to start by talking about John Daly. Daly has called it quits as far as the two remaining events scheduled for the PGA tour. It has been rumored that he has stopped for rehab reasons, but those rumors have been denied and the only word that has come from a valid source is that he needs to figure out personal reasons. We'll let you decide which of these personal reasons has kept Daly from finishing the 2003 campaign. Since winning the 1991 PGA Championship, Daly has entered alcohol rehab twice. This year his wife, five days after giving birth to their child, was given, along with her parents, drug and illegal gambling charges. Then, Daly randomly pulled out a win at the Korean Open and pulled out of his next tournament because of hyperventilating that was caused by dehydration. In his final tour event of the year, Daly carelessly backhanded putts and took one-handed shots from the rough. He scored an 83, his fifth round in the 80s this year. I’d guess it was the hyperventilating...

As many Red Sox fans sat on the edges of their seats in Game Seven of the ALCS in distress as to why Pedro Martinez continued to pitch, no one was thinking about the future of the manager, Grady Little. It took Little two innings and a blown three-run lead to remove Martinez from the hill, and it took Sox General Manager, Theo Epstein, 11 days after the fact to remove Little from his office...

10 NFL players have been subpoenaed to game since 1987 in the inaugural World Cup. Their victory on Monday was...a 39-26 route over Japan. Japan, who the U.S. beat in their first Cup game in 1987, now currently holds the record for losses in Cup competition at ten games... It was a rough weekend for former Lightweight boxing champion Paul Spadafora. Friday started off bad and Sunday wasn’t any better. On Friday night, Spadafora was arrested on charges of public lewdness and intoxication as he was seen urinating down a public street. On Sunday, he was again arrested on a warrant accusing him of shooting and injuring a woman earlier in the day. It’s an understatement to say he might have had one rough case of the Mondays...

Five-year-olds are setting records across the pond. Rebekah Noakes became the youngest person to climb each of Great Britain’s tallest three peaks. She conquered the 4,409 ft. Ben Nevis in Scotland, the 3,207 ft. Scafell Pike in England, and the 3,558 ft. Snowdon in Wales. Yet in reports from her mother, she still complains about walking to school.

Mid-season moves made Marlins champs
By Erik SWANSON
Guest Columnist

July 12, 2003: The day a World Series Champion was born. The Florida Marlins, who entered the league as an expansion team in 1993, were recently in the playoffs for only the second time, the first of which resulted in a remarkable World Series Crown. You know how the story ends; the Marlins won their second title in six memorable games against the Yankees. But the Marlins’ improbable run to the championship began long before their dominating pitching carried them past the Giants, Cubs, and Yankees in the playoffs.

On July 12, the Marlins surrendered one of their top prospects to acquire right-handed relief pitcher Ugueth Urbina from the Texas Rangers, at the time the American League leader in saves. A seemingly meaningless trade for which most baseball insiders congratulated the Rangers, this transaction signified the Marlins’ never-say-die attitude that won them the title. Florida, only two games above .500, trailed the N.L. East-leading Braves by double digits, and their wildcard deficit was 4 1/2 games and growing. The Marlins already had a reliable closer in Braden Looper, and Urbina was only expected to be used as a set-up man. But by September, Urbina had assumed the closer’s role, and the Marlins were one of the hottest teams in baseball. Even the notoriously disgruntled South Florida fans were taking notice, and the Marlins’ home attendance began to grow to levels unseen since their World Series victory in 1997.

Urbina’s acquisition may not have been the catalyst for Florida’s championship run, but it demonstrated the Marlins’ confidence that a 72-year-old manager could carry a team void of superstars to the top. Jack McKeon took over the team with a 19-29 record in May and directed them to the league’s best record from May 23 to the season’s end. McKeon hadn’t managed a game in three years, yet he took over a young, inexperienced team and created champions by stealing a league-leading 150 bases. McKeon’s managerial skill in the World Series cannot be argued. His decisions to move a dominating Dontrelle Willis to the bullpen and to send Josh Beckett to the mound on three days rest were the driving forces behind the World Series victory.

In early July, when teams around the league were inquiring as to the availability of All-Star third baseman Mike Lowell, the Marlins turned the suitors away because they were preparing for the playoffs. Their aspirations seemed ambitious in July, but in retrospect, Florida knew exactly what it was doing. The team’s prescient midseason decisions provided them with the confidence and personnel they needed to complete the puzzle and begin their miraculous run to their second championship.