4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2003.

Trustees, from page 1

are as an academic institution.” President Vagt noted that the Board of Trustees has become increasingly diverse in the years since the College’s inception. He said, “If you go back 30 years, the number of non-males and non-whites would have been much less.” According to the Trustee bylaws, only 12 trustees are required to be Davidson alums. President Vagt remarked that while “some relationship with the college is clearly important,” non-Davidson alums can achieve that relationship by sending children to Davidson, employing Davidson graduates, or possessing expertise in a field relevant to Davidson’s needs.

Trustees have also contributed a significant sum of money to the college. Davidson is currently engaged in a campaign to raise $250 million, and trustees have already pledged $71 million. President Vagt said, “Whether it is cause or effect, the trustees have been a group that have given a generous gift to the college.”

All five of the trustees are expected to help Davidson fill a specific need. Salyer, President and Chief Executive Officer of Public Radio International, has extensive experience in the field of media relations. He will join Davidson’s College Relations Committee. Thomson, Chief Operating Officer at Citigroup, will draw on his financial background as a member of the Budget and Finances Committee. Notable trustees include Edward Crutchfield, former Chairman of Wachovia Corporation, and Paul Leonard, Jr., Habitat for Humanity International’s Chairman of the Board. Although numerous other trustees have great success in such arenas as business and academia, President Vagt stressed that commitment to Davidson is their most important qualification. According to President Vagt, “the one thing that joins everybody is affection for the institution.”

College Bowl season kicks off with tourney

By CHRISTIE KILBY
Staff Writer

Dust off the buzzers — it’s time for another season of College Bowl tournament play. Teams of four students (and an alternate) will soon begin the battle of wits in a tournament here on campus, culminating in the selection of an all-star team to represent Davidson College in regional competition. If you missed the registration deadline, you can still catch some College Bowl action by volunteering as a timer, scorekeeper, or spectator. As James Gibert advises, “Come out and watch! It’s more fun for everybody.”

Gibert, who now works as the College’s Director of Planned Giving, remembers the days when College Bowl caused even more of a stir than did last year’s basketball victory against UNC. Exactly twenty-five years ago, Davidson won the National Tournament with a 405-110 victory over Harvard and even traveled to play England’s University Challenge champion, Sidney-Sussex College, Cambridge. Gibert, a senior on the 1978-79 champion team, now coaches Davidson’s yearly all-star team.

Despite a grand history, Davidson has not always held a College Bowl tournament. William Brown, Union Director for twenty years now, says that the College’s first Bowl competition was a 1955 television game show. Sporadic participation also won Davidson an undefeated season in 1969 and second place in the nation in 1981. Registrar Hansford Epes, whom some students know as the Davidson Wizard, helped organize teams for several of the following twelve to fifteen years. David Crane ’06 walked onto campus last fall with legends ofhis father’s College Bowl victories here. Wanting to resurrect a team, Crane contacted Gibert and helped initiate last year’s tournament that saw twenty-three teams participating. Gibert said, “Anytime you can get a hundred busy Davidson students to turn out for anything, it’s a big accomplishment!” Brown adds that considering the size of our student body, last year yielded “perhaps the most active College Bowl program in the country.”

Today, Brown, Gibert, and Quinton McKissick with RLO are working together to produce the Intramural College Bowl Tournament. On behalf of the Union, Brown says, “I just try to take care of all the logistics. The students in the 1979 tournament called me the ‘General Manager.’ I just wanted to make it easier for Gibert, and that’s the role I’ll be playing now.” Brown and Gibert look to see about twenty teams register this year and hope that students will want to come watch. What Gibert loves about College Bowl is that “until you play this game, you have no idea if you’re going to be good at it.” He encourages students to give College Bowl a try, regardless of their major or class. Last year’s all-star traveling squad was comprised of two freshmen, one junior, and two seniors. All are welcome to participate in what will soon return to campus as a Davidson tradition.

Traffic, from page 1

Concord Road, and College Street at Concord Road. Dr. Dave Martin, member of the town Board of Commissioners and Professor of Economics, explains the purpose of the changes. “We are not building roads simply to facilitate automobile traffic from point A to point B. The roads are built to accommodate bicyclists and pedestrians also.” The town plans to extend the building project to Griffith Street by creating a bike lane and installing roundabouts at the intersections. Martin hopes that the bike lanes and roundabouts on Griffith will help with the speeding issue on that road.

Along with the physical changes, there will also be changes in traffic enforcement. Martin says, “We’ve asked the police to enforce passing-on-the-right, the pedestrians having the right of way at crosswalks, and the speeding,” and he also notes that “in many cities people are not used to the enforcement levels we have here.” Such heavy enforcement is best exemplified with the penalty for passing-on-the-right: four points on the license, a $125 ticket plus court costs, and a mandatory court appearance. Davidson Chief of Police John Kearin said the new police motorcycle will play a major role in enforcement and in public safety since it has an automated external defibrillator (AED). “With the use of a motorcycle, we can work our way through traffic and make an emergency visit to either side of town.”

Book 11 people, get 12th trip free. Visit the official website for Spring Break ‘04. The best deals to the hottest destinations. Group discounts for 6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com or 800-838-8202.

Located 1 mile from campus in a new neighborhood in old Davidson. $600/month unfurnished or $800/month furnished. Includes utilities and basic cable. A security deposit is required. Contact Janet Lowder at (704) 896-7962.

ADULT CUT $8.99. Exit 23--ONLY. Redeemable only at participating locations.