SS ALI DRS | IY

By Jor TAYLOR
Staff Columnist

From the outset, let it be known that I absolutely despise Dave Matthews and his ungodly music. Nonetheless, I did support both the Concert Committee and the Union Board in their successful campaign to bring the magnificent Dave Matthews Band to Belk Arena. Davidson is one of twelve locations where “Dave” will be playing this spring; more than 300 schools vied for a performance and failed. Davidson did not succeed, however, without hard work and an impressive financial offer of approximately $150,000.

Rumors of Dave’s price tag spread throughout the Davidson student body rapidly, inciting controversy and speculation; should Davidson pay such an exorbitant amount for a musician? Although the price may be a bit ludicrous, Dave brings to Davidson more than just music; when Dave comes to Davidson, so too does the media and fans from all over the east coast. Attention is something that is quite valuable to a school such as Davidson. No matter how trivial the reason, the repetition of the name “Davidson College” anywhere in the media is beneficial to the school. Additionally, by bringing Dave, Davidson proves to its students that they are not missing out on anything by attending a small school. The opportunity to see such a renowned artist is usually reserved for students at some generic and colossal Division I school. Davidson’s ability to retain its status as a “highly selective liberal arts college for 1600 students,” while still being able to offer everything found at schools 30x as large (such as Ohio State) is impressive and invaluable.

Yet some students apparently disagree. Jeremy Trantham, The Davidsonian’s own “Senior Source,” was amongst those who voiced their opinions. Upon which other areas should Davidson focus its money and attention? Amongst the jokes, Mr. Trantham suggested that Davidson use the money “to attract the brightest minds in the land.” This is an admirable but misguided suggestion. Since when is it appropriate to cut funding for extracurriculars and entertainment and spend it on recruiting? Furthermore, where should Davidson draw the line when trying to secure a big-name concert? $50,000? $100,000? Would students’ answers vary depending upon the band?

By MATTHEW BANDYK AND TED EMERSON
Staff Columnists

When we first heard that Dave Matthews would be playing at Davidson, we became part of a very small minority on campus that was disappointed by the news. While we recognize that many people regard him as one of the classic musical artists of our generation, we find the man’s music to be repetitive, tuneless, pretentious, and meandering. Our personal biases aside, there are several reasons why we believe a Dave Matthews concert would not be appropriate for Davidson College, regardless of the quality of his music.

We pride ourselves on the Davidson approach to education. Our small liberal arts atmosphere allows for unique learning and living opportunities and promotes individuality, qualities that few colleges and universities possess. However, with this concert, Davidson students appear to be no different from the stereotypical college student who sports Abercrombie and Birkenstocks, drinks Starbucks coffee, and worships Dave Matthews. One of the things we love most about Davidson is how students define themselves as individuals, but this concert would not project that image to the general public.

The college experience is meant to expose individuals to events that will broaden their perspective. Inviting Dave Matthews to Davidson is a missed opportunity in that regard. A large majority of Davidson students are aware of Dave Matthews and most likely many students have already seen him in concert. The exorbitant amount of money Mr. Matthews will be paid to play at Davidson could be used to attract talent that is more diverse and unique than that of Dave. We’d rather see something new and different and thus more stimulating than something overexposed and overrated. We know that there is no stopping this concert and that people will remain to be a favorite amongst college students. But we hope that in the future the college will take a different approach in its choice of entertainment.

Return of Top 10: What I learned abroad

By ALI FITZGERALD
Staff Columnist

The Davidson junior: an obscure, globetrotting creature, known for spouting off without warning about current political quagmires and often seen sneaking beer steins out of Oktoberfest. After a short respite in a foreign environment free from stress and paper writing, the elusive third-year student then flies home for the winter to return to its former state of intellectual captivity. Here, it is forced unduly to analyze things like disgruntled vegan poetry and the mating habits of the Icelandic water ferret.

As one of the aforementioned Davidson “juniors,” I have returned, quite unceremoniously, to continue my expedition in higher education. But, it’s not enough to simply say, “It was amazing” when I’m asked to describe my abroad experience. There’s a big world out there (regardless of what the Disney ride says) and I, for one, am glad that Davidson afforded me the opportunity to see it in all its non-North Carolina glory. With that said, there are a few wisdom-filled words that I would like to impart to those that are going or have gone abroad to WeE-town (Western Europe).

Ali Fitzgerald ’04

1. Davidson students abroad are like the Olsen twins after puberty: they are everywhere and they think they’re the s**t.
2. McFlurries are unique the world over—be sure to try all the regional variations while traveling. From the Austrian sausage McFlurry to the Scots’ own “Haggis” McFlurry; they are all tasty...and culturally enlivening! In the meantime, a chart detailing consistency andHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Overall chunkiness—not including that of the researcher—should be completed. Upon your return to Davidson, apply for a Dean Rusk grant to continue research on Chicken McNuggets.

3. Europeans would bathe in olive oil; except that would still qualify as bathing.

4. If you’re in line and you have a funny feeling that the foreign people behind you are American... they are. Assume they are saying that you are a) Obese or b) Illiterate. Respond by seers that second McFlurry.

5. There is an abundance of interesting museums and memorials in Amsterdam... but you won’t remember any of them.

6. Cathedrals, forts, and other monuments are annoyingly ubiquitous throughout Europe and you won’t want to stop at every one. If your parents require evidence about your uber educational outings, simply cut out pictures of dilapidated-looking buildings from magazines like “Castle Quarterly” and impose them with photos of yourself looking somber and contemplative. You can even make up cute little captions like, “This is me at the estate of Earl Justin of Timber Lake; who was a prestigious lord of the rings in the Beeh-ess province, Ireland.”

7. Spanish men really do only think about the “s” word... but let’s face it, who’s not a little obsessive about “soccer” these days?

8. Never ask a Spanish clothing store attendant if you look fat; they will not only tell you the truth about where those croissants went, but will laugh maniacally as you futilely try and wiggle out of that death-vice tube top that is now BLING around your midsection.

9. Making out in public is a well-sanctified European custom; embrace it. Simply start a running commentary, grab some churros, and enjoy the show.

10. “Internet Cafes”—those godforsaken money pits that are not only equipped with the most sloth-like computers in the world but also $8 Kit Kats, will quickly become your homes away from home... hey, maybe Europe isn’t so different than Davidson after all.

Don’t take it for granted.

Lindsey Baldwin
Staff Columnist

Thirty years ago today, the Rehnquist Court made one of the most controversial decisions in U.S. history with its 7-2 ruling on Roe v. Wade. Despite the vehement and occasionally violent attacks flung at Roe and its results, the decision was the right one for our country and it should be upheld.

I’m not going to try and argue that abortions are good and everyone should have one as soon as possible. I don’t believe that, and I doubt that anyone else in the pro-choice movement does either. What I do believe is that the criminalization of abortion does not prevent abortion itself. Instead, it simply ensures that the majority of terminations that do take place will be performed by untrained “surgeons” in unsanitary conditions. Before 1973, this is precisely what occurred. Affluent women could still obtain safe surgical abortions, but poorer women in desperate situations were condemned to take their chances with anyone willing to perform the abortion. As many as 5,000 women and girls died each year from complications resulting from illegal abortions. Making abortion illegal doesn’t stop abortions from taking place. It only endangers the women having them, and allows the government to interfere with a woman’s right to control her own reproductive system to boot.

The Republican Party has done a good job of convincing pro-choice independents that it will not threaten Roe. Bush's record, however, tells a different story. This makes the current complacency of the pro-Roe American majority all the more disturbing. The results of the 2002 Congressional elections clearly indicate that reproductive rights are not a key factor in many voters’ ballots. The Republican party ran an excellent campaign and has done a good job of convincing pro-choice independents that they will not threaten Roe. Bush’s record, however, tells a different story.

Consider: one of the first things Bush did upon taking office in January 2001 was to reinstate the Mexico City Policy. Also known as the “Global Gag Rule,” this system applies to international family planning organizations receiving U.S. aid. In his speech on the subject, Bush claimed that he was preventing American funds from being used for abortions. However, his comments were misleading. The Helms Amendment, passed in 1973, is the piece of legislation that forbids U.S. funds to go towards abortions in other countries. The Gag Rule, on the other hand, severely restricts the ability of family planning organizations to provide abortions with their own, non-U.S. funds, talk to women about abortions, or even attempt to change restrictive anti-abortion laws in their native countries. The date chosen to reinstate this policy? Jan. 22, 2001.

Bush also proclaimed Jan. 20 “National Sanctity of Human Life Day.” Those who think this is merely a world-peace initiative should consider that Bush’s Texas record is profoundly anti-Roe, and he has repeatedly declared that the Republican party must adhere to the pro-life position. The anti-Roe sentiment has even infiltrated government webpages like the National Cancer Institute’s. According to the New York Times, the webpage’s section on a supposed link between breast cancer and abortions used to reflect the data from the most comprehensive and acclaimed study on the subject, which concluded that such a link does not exist. The page has now been altered to say that data is “inconclusive,” despite the fact that no new studies have emerged to contradict the dominant Danish one.

It seems that a lot of young men and women have been lulled into a false sense of security about Roe v. Wade. Most of us, I think, take it for granted that this decision will naturally be a part of our legal landscape for years to come. Unfortunately, we cannot afford to make this assumption.