THE Davidsonian SPORTS WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2003

Fillnow, Haywood lead tennis in Intercollegiate Championships

By Erik Swanson
Staff Writer

The Intercollegiate Tennis Association Regional Championships feature the best of the best in seven different regions throughout the country. The
Southeast and Mideast regions, to which Davidson’s women’s and men’s teams are designated, are especially strong, featuring highly-ranked teams such
as Duke, North Carolina, Wake Forest, Clemson, South Carolina, Kentucky, and more. This tournament signals the culmination of the fall
tennis season, the last chance for the nation’s best college tennis players to prove themselves until January.

Last weekend, Wake Forest and North Carolina hosted the women’s and men’s ITA Regional Championships, respectively. As a small school
without much of a national profile, Davidson was permitted to send one singles player and one doubles team to compete
in the main draw of each event. While the results don’t indicate substantial success, the Wildcats’ high level of play
against quality opponents demonstrates their ability to compete with almost anyone in the country.

Captain Katherine Hatch ’04 and Kelly Fillnow ’05 represented Davidson women’s tennis at Wake Forest, competing in both singles and
doubles. In doubles action, the pair drew a team from N.C. State in their first match and won the hard-fought
8-6 match with some strong doubles play. “They seized the momentum from the outset and kept the momentum throughout the
match,” commented head coach Caroline Price. Price also emphasized the implications of this match: “We’ll see [N.C. State] again early
in the spring season, so this victory is important for our confidence.”

The draw did not get any easier for the Wildcats after their first match, as they were matched up against
the fourth-seeded Wake Forest team. After taking a 1-0 lead with a chance to go up 2-0, the Davidson duo
ultimately was overtaken by the Demon Deacons 8-2. Said Price, “We got off to a solid start, but the other
team just kept getting stronger and stronger.”

In singles, Fillnow drew twelfth-seeded Kendall Cline (North Carolina) in the first round. While Fillnow fought hard in the first
several games to keep the match fairly even, her opponent proved to be too strong, winning the match 6-2, 6-1.
Hatch also got an opportunity to play singles, as she was accepted into the qualifying draw. Hatch faced a player
from Kentucky in her first round match, competing hard but ultimately falling 6-3, 7-5 to the SEC player. Hatch didn’t
go down without a fight, though. After starting slowly and falling behind 6-3, 5-2, Hatch evened the score at 5-5
but ultimately lost a very competitive second set.

Despite their losses, the tournament marked the end of a very successful fall season for Fillnow and Hatch. Each finished
the fall campaign with a 6-3 singles record, and they also showed impressive doubles talent. In fact, the depth of
talent on the women’s team this year is so great that Price feels whichever three doubles teams end up starting
in the spring will be the strongest three ever for the Wildcats.

At Chapel Hill, Rob Haywood ’04 and Donald Miles ’05 participated in the doubles and singles competitions for the Wildcats.
In doubles play, Haywood and Miles posted an 8-2 victory in their first round match against a Liberty team that
has historically played very closely against Davidson. Head coach Jeff Frank praised their performance: “I was really pleased with the
way they beat Liberty, dominating a team that we struggled against last year.”

For their decisive first round victory, Haywood and Miles were rewarded with a match-up against the sixth-seeded team from Furman.
While the result didn’t fall their way, the Davidson team fought right down to the end in the 9-8 loss.
The match consisted of 16 straight games without a break of serve before the Furman team took the tiebreaker 7-3.
Observed Frank, “That was probably the best intensity and focus I’ve seen those guys play with throughout an eight-game pro
set. Their ability to avoid lapses was crucial to their performance, and they almost pulled out the victory in the
end.”

Only Haywood played singles for the Wildcats, and, despite drawing the fourth seed in the first round, he was excited
about the match-up. Haywood, still nursing a foot injury suffered three weeks ago, was not at full strength, and the
coaches were unsure whether or not he had two matches in him. After he came storming out and took the
first set from Clemson’s top player, the #46 player in the nation gradually worked his way back into the match
and defeated Haywood in three sets. Frank stressed that, “Haywood looked really good in winning the first set and never
let up mentally. His opponent just started moving Rob a bit more and stepping up his game.” This match marks
Haywood’s third match in the last 12 months against a player ranked in the top 50 in the nation. Haywood
has managed to take all three matches to three sets.

By Wilson McCrory
Staff Writer

After a tough week on the road in Southern Conference play, the Wildcats were looking forward to the comforts of
Belk Arena in their return to Davidson this past weekend. “We’ve been struggling on the road,” admits Latisha Chapman ’04,
“and we’re definitely excited about being back in front of the home crowd, and hopefully being able to gain some
momentum for the end of the season.”

The Wildcats were able to capitalize on the comforts of home on Saturday afternoon against UNC-Greensboro, but were unable to
hold off Elon in a Sunday loss. In the opening match of the weekend against UNCG, the ’Cats looked to
continue their 12-match win-streak over the Spartans that dates back to 1997. The team, which has been sluggish in the
opening games of its recent defeats, struggled to pull away from the Spartans for much of the opening frame but
used a late eight-point run to go from a 22-22 score to a 30-22 victory. That opening rally would set
the tone for the match, as Davidson would not look back. In the second game, UNCG hung close to the
Wildcats for much of the frame, but the ’Cats again used a late five-point rally to bring the scoreto 29-21.
Chapman then closed out the game with one of her 13 kills, effectively ‘closing the door on the Spartans. Davidson
won the third and final game 30-26 for a 3-0 sweep over UNCG. The contest featured an efficient Wildcat attack
that has been almost nonexistent of late, as the team registered a solid .285 attack percentage. More important than the
statistics, however, was the Wildcats’ ability to put the games away when they had to. Chapman noted after the match
that “the flow of the match was exactly what we wanted, where everyone came together at the end and did
what they had to. If we can play every match like that, we’ll be fine.”

Coming off of the strong showing against UNCG, Davidson hoped to continue the momentum against in-state rival Elon. It appeared
as though the ’Cats would maintain the winning trend, as the team quickly cruised to a 30-23 opening-game win. The
Phoenix quickly silenced those hopes, however, by taking the second and third games 30-23, 30-22. Davidson again stepped up to
easily take a 30-22 game four win but was unable to finish the contest on a positive note in a
15-6 loss in the decisive fifth game. It was another tough loss for the Wildcats, their first defeat to Elon
since 1986, as it appeared that the team had perhaps turned the corner on the arduous season. But in what
has become another theme of the season, the ’Cats were unable to finish off Elon in the final game. “It’s
definitely hard when you lose those five-game matches,” stated Chapman after the loss, “but again, we hope we can learn
from the experience for future matches.”

For the contest, Davidson was held to a poor .177 attack percentage, while allowing a .241 percentage for the Phoenix.
One bright spot for the match, however, was the consistently impressive play by the Wildcat freshmen. Jenny Mills tallied a
near-flawless .917 percentage on 11 kills, while fellow frosh Jenna Dykstra recorded her second triple-double of the season with 19
kills, 13 digs, and 23 assists. The precocious group has been a constant point of hope throughout much of the
season, but the class has become increasingly effective and versatile as the season has worn on. As Chapman said, “The
freshmen have all really stepped into their roles and played whatever position they’ve been asked to play without complaint.”

Furthermore, despite the struggles, the Wildcats have by no means abandoned the 2003 season. Chapman says that they hope to
use the seven-game home streak to build momentum for the end of the season, advance to the Southern Conference Tournament,
and capitalize on their team goal of “Bouncing Back.” In pursuit of these goals, the Wildcats hope to rebound from
the Sunday loss in another home match this Friday against the Citadel, a team Davidson beat 3-1 earlier this season
in Charleston.

Field hockey rebounds from Duke loss with Radford win

Photo by Peter Roady

Kristina Auer ’04 fights hard for the ball in her final home game

By BEN WHIGHAM
Staff Writer

Despite a four-game losing streak that threatened both their confidence and their season, the field hockey squad managed to pull
themselves together for a respectable showing against Duke and a conference victory over Radford in their final home game of
the season.

Last Wednesday, the ’Cats faced a surging Duke team that was fresh off a victory against top-ranked Wake Forest. Having
not won a game in four tries, the ’Cats appeared to be easy prey for the Blue Devils. The ’Cats
fought hard, however, and managed to hang tight with the Blue Devils through much of the game. Trailing 3-0, junior
Liz Schoening’s seventh goal of the season brought the ’Cats to within two. “It felt great to score a goal
against the number two team in the nation,” said Whitney Vogler ’04. “Especially since North Carolina and Wake Forest weren't
able to in recent games against Duke.” The Blue Devils would hit back, scoring at the 40-minute mark. This goal
marked a defining shift in momentum. “Duke got the momentum with 20 minutes left,” said head coach Lisa Thompson. “Nothing
could break it.” With everything going their way, the resurgent Blue Devils scored 9 unanswered goals in the game’s final
minutes. “It was frustrating,” Thompson said.

Still, the ’Cats showed some promise against the Blue Devils. Sarah Nolan ’05 had herself a solid outing, with 22
saves in defending the cage. The defense looked solid as well, especially in defending the 27 penalty corners they faced.
Far more than in their last two outings against big-name schools, Davidson produced some ball movement and offense, which culminated
in Schoening’s score.

The loss did not damage the ’Cats’ confidence, as their following match against Radford showed. The final home match of
the season, this game represented the last time class of ’04 members Kathleen Fenn, Christina Auer, Zoe Segnitz, and Whitney
Vogler would play before a home crowd. The team managed a proper send-off for these players, netting a 2-1 victory.
“It was weird to think this was the last time we'll be playing on that field,” said Vogler. “But it
was a happy moment too, especially since we swept Radford.” The ’Cats managed two goals early and never looked back.
Jane-Garnet Ishon ’05 scored her first goal of the season off an assist from Courtney Hughes ’05, who followed up
with a score of her own. “They’re very strong and really attack the ball,” said Thompson of Radford. “It was
great to get the ‘W.’”

With this conference victory, the ’Cats move to 4-1 in Eastern-Norpac play, needing only a final victory against Appalachian State
to secure the top spot in their division. The two teams dueled in September, with the ’Cats pulling out an
overtime victory at home. With no dominant team present in the Norpac this year, the momentum and top seed that
will come with a victory against Appalachian State would bode very well for the ’Cats in the tournament. “We need
to come off the bus confident and with a purpose,” Thompson says. That purpose, she makes clear, is nothing short
of “sealing the East.”
