Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Davidson College
Wednesday, March 19, 2003
Volume 94, Number 19

Dr. James Zogby moderated the dialogue between 150 Davidson students and 80 students from the University of Baghdad last week.

Videoconference raises questions, finds few answers
Davidson students question Iraqis’ freedom to speak
By Amee Patel
News Editor

Whether watching President Bush’s worldwide address in the Union Monday night, voicing concerns in a lively debate last month, or
lighting candles during Sunday’s global peace vigil on the Town Green, Davidson students have engaged themselves in the pending war
in Iraq in a variety of ways. Last Wednesday’s dialogue with students from Iraq via satellite was only the latest
example.

Tense and emotional dialogue filled the 900 Room as students from Davidson and the University of Baghdad discussed their experiences,
hopes, and, most prominently, fears of the imminent war with Iraq. Conversing live through a videoconference, nearly 150 Davidson students
asked and were asked questions by about 80 students from the University of Baghdad. Though satellite-related technical problems caused a
half-hour delay, concerned students from two different worlds were finally given a glimpse into each other’s lives.

While much of the discussion revolved around the American administration’s actions toward the Iraqi regime, many students left with a
strong sense of humanity, regardless of their personal beliefs on the war. Kendiya Geghman ’03 said, “I think the forum
was a wonderful opportunity for both Davidson and Baghdad students to humanize the other side. It is easier to see
the other side as an enemy if they are not seen as ‘real people.’”

Dr. James Zogby, the James K. Batten Visiting Professor in Public Policy and the moderator for the hour-long conversation, opened
by acknowledging a few asymmetries between the Iraqi and American students. “We can have free and open discussion, and they
can’t,” said Zogby. “And they may soon be suffering from bombs falling on them, while we won’t.”

Many students found these disparities as a limitation to the discourse. Stella Kenyi ’05 said, “We did get the opportunity
to look into their eyes and get their opinions. But I don’t think they were free to speak their minds.”
John Pitts ’04 was not surprised by the students’ limited conversation. “We must recognize that…”

See Videolink, page 2

‘A time to mourn, a time to dance’
Friends and family gather to celebrate senior’s life
By Caroline K. Hauser
Managing Editor

Members of the Davidson community filled DCPC last Thursday to celebrate the life of Katherine Costa ’03. Costa died in
an automobile accident over spring break. Costa, an English major taking pre-med classes, was well known around campus for...

---

This cleaned text maintains the original structure, punctuation, and meaning of the provided OCR text.Her involvement in the Dance Ensemble
and theater productions. Her friends and family from Goldsboro, N.C., listened from the first two rows as students, faculty, and
staff mourned a student who, as Chaplain Rob Spach said, “brought so much vitality and life and joy” to Davidson’s
campus. Before the service, members of the English department gathered to dedicate a tree on Chambers lawn in Costa’s memory.
Department chair Randy Nelson addressed those gathered, calling her “a favorite daughter of this college” and saying, “She was our
dancer and our inspiration, a shining example of why we all were guided to this vocation.”

Katherine Costa
1980 - 2003

Zoran Kuzmanovich, Costa’s advisor, agrees. “Her presence here made what the professors do both more important and more fun. Hers
was a delighting eye, noticing both the tender and the silly, the needy and the self-”

see Memorial, page 3

photo by Eron Earley-Thiele
Members of Dance Ensemble perform an interpretive dance at Katherine Costa’s memorial service last Thursday.

Community chairs a comfy addition to lawns
By BRANDON CARROLL
News Editor

Thanks to the efforts of one student, the entire Davidson community can now lounge in green Adirondack chairs around campus
on sunny days. The thirty-three chairs, a dark green color that blends in with the spring grass, were placed around
campus Thursday for the enjoyment of Davidson’s picturesque campus and the outdoors. They are a direct result of the work
of Mac Cowell ’06, who worked last semester to make the chairs a reality.

The chairs are for community use. Cowell said he got the idea when, “I visited Swarthmore up in Pennsylvania, and
they have a bunch of wooden Adirondack chairs, and I thought that would be cool if we could do that
here.” After discussing the idea with Vice President of Student Life and Dean of Students Tom Shandley and college President
Bobby Vagt, among others, he went door to door in dorms, primarily in Belk, and also to parties in order
to raise the funds for the chairs. “People gave a couple bucks, just out of courtesy,” Cowell said. “I ended
up raising $350 dollars, which is interesting, because that is enough for only 17 chairs,” Cowell said.

The chairs waited in the college’s warehouse until the spring weather arrived. When Mac and Bo Rainbow ’06, Cowell’s hallmate
and friend, began deploying the chairs, they discovered a surprise. There were 34, twice as many as he had ordered.
Unfortunately, one was damaged in shipping. He suspects someone in the administration or other students may have put up matching
funds. Cowell said, “I’m very grateful to whoever got the other seventeen chairs, because I’m not responsible for [acquiring] them.”

The chairs have been deployed up the hill, from the north entrance of Chambers along Dormitory Row to the Belk
courtyard area and near Richardson and West. As early as Thursday afternoon, students could be seen tanning, socializing, studying, and
otherwise enjoying last week’s warm spring weather. Many students wondered where the chairs came from. Asked about the decision to
place them up the hill, Cowell said, “When I went to meet with Dean Shandley, [the administration] said this”

see Chairs, page 4
