e Once-promising men’s hoops season ends quickly with tourney loss to VMI

Keydets send top seed Wildcats packing with stunning SoCon upset

By Matt Garfield
Editor

CHARLESTON, S.C.—About this time last year, the men’s basketball team was in Albuquerque, N.M., preparing to play in the first
round of the NCAA Tournament after a banner season that produced 21 wins and a Southern Conference championship. One year
later, the Wildcats are still getting over the frustration of a seemingly premature ending to a year that once held
so much promise.

Fifth-place Virginia Military, a team the top-seeded Wildcats had pounded by 35 points just six days earlier, ended Davidson’s season
with a 66-60 win in the quarterfinals of the SoCon Tournament in Charleston, S.C. For a team that shared the
North Division title for the second consecutive year and entered the tournament as a strong contender to earn another championship,
losing its first game to the 10-19 Keydets was a bitter fate to accept.

“I’ve watched the tape physically three times. I’ve played it through in my mind 100 times,” said assistant coach Jason
Zimmerman. “When it comes to an end so abruptly, it stings.”

Looking back, maybe the upset was not all that surprising, considering VMI’s recent success against the Wildcats. The Keydets have
won three of the last four meetings, including a 61-60 victory earlier this season. As in those losses, the Wildcats
had trouble making the perimeter shots that had been so prolific in other games throughout the season. And VMI shot
the ball exceptionally well (52 percent field goal shooting), dictating a slow, walk-it-up-the-court-every-time pace, building an early lead and avoiding
costly turnovers.

“We could not get any easy baskets,” said head coach Bob McKillop. “We were constantly on our heels because we
spent so much time playing defense. And they played outstanding defense and executed their game plan to perfection.”

Junior forward Radee Skipworth was essentially unstoppable, scoring 36 points on 14-of-19 shooting and almost single-handedly crippling the Wildcats' numerous
comeback attempts.

“He made some very tough shots,” said Zimmerman. “He also got some looks that he shouldn’t have gotten. We could’ve
defended better.”

Another factor working against Davidson: This year, several top-seeded teams in conference tournaments around the nation suffered similar fates. Arizona
lost to UCLA. Florida lost to LSU. Marquette lost to UAB. Wisconsin lost to Ohio State. In fact, only 12
of the country’s 34 top-seeded teams won their conference tournaments. There’s something about being a favorite that plays with the
emotions of a team during the postseason—perhaps even more for defending champions like Davidson.

“In any tournament situation, there’s always pressure, especially for a mid-major,” Zimmerman said. “We have seniors who have been through
that. Obviously, the feeling of going back into Charleston brings back good memories. Does that add to the pressure? It’s
hard to say.”

photo by Chris Keane
STYMIED: Senior Michel Lusakueno goes up against VMI’s Zack Battie in the Wildcat loss.

Despite a poor tournament showing, the Wildcats exceeded the expectations of most fans and observers with 17 wins, including non-conference
victories over Charlotte and St. Bonaventure, and another regular season title, their fifth in the last eight years.

“If you told somebody we’d go 17-10, they would’ve never thought it could happen losing what we did after last
season,” said Zimmerman. “This team fought through a lot. You can’t lose sight of the things they did throughout the
year. I don’t think that can be lost in one game of the conference tournament.”

Next season, expectations will be higher. With the return of a talented freshmen trio in Brendan Winters, Ian Johnson, and
Matt McKillop, the addition of transfers Logan Kosmalski and Kenny Grant, and the return of wingman Nick Booker, who sat
out this year for academic reasons, the Wildcats will be expected to contend for a third straight division title. Kosmalski
is a 6-8 power forward from Baylor, while Grant is a 6-1 point guard from Lafayette.

Davidson will move to the South Division next season as part of a conference realignment, meaning the team will play
College of Charleston, Wofford, Furman, The Citadel, and Georgia Southern twice a year, and the North Division teams only once.

“We have a great nucleus coming back,” said Zimmerman. “We’re excited about next year, but there’s aLot of work that
needs to be done. As soon as you look that far ahead, you lose track of what you’re doing today.”

The DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, March 19, 2003

By Jerry Davis
Staff Writer

In its third week of Southern Conference play, the baseball team finds itself second to last in the standings, and
still looking for its first conference win. The team is 4-10 overall, with an 0-8 SoCon record. In their three-game
series with Western Carolina this past weekend, the ’Cats were shut out twice by the Catamounts 11-0 and 9-0. The
5-4 loss on Saturday provided a cause for optimism, but the team was again unable to sustain a strong nine-inning
effort.

Prior to the Western Carolina series, the team split a two-game series with Buffalo and was routed in a three-game
conference series with VMI. Runs scored, defensive errors, and hits at the plate have all been problems, but head coach
Dick Cooke says these are all aspects of the game in which improvement is possible.

“The beauty about baseball is that there are so many games to be played,” said Cooke. “We struggled early on
but I’m confident in our players to continue to improve and find the right tools to win games.”

Those tools will need to be found at the plate. The ’Cats have failed to score more than two runs
in eight of their 15 games. The team batting average stands at .221, last place in the SoCon.

“We need one player to get hot at the plate and hope the hits are contagious to the other guys
on the team,” declared Eli Benefield ’05. “When a team has trouble scoring runs, it puts extra pressure on the
pitchers and the defense to perform,” said Cooke. “I think we’ve seen some of that in the past few weeks.”

The pitching staff holds an ERA of 6.45, putting them ninth in the league. The defense stands at eighth in
the conference with a .951 fielding percentage. The infield has been impressive at times with numerous double plays turned by
the skilled combo of D.J. Dailey ’03 at shortstop and Benefield at second, but that has been the only true
bright spot thus far.

“Our infield has been great and we’ve made some big plays,” stated Cooke. “We are a young team and I
think we’ve faced some tough competition.”

The squad is rich in youth with sometimes up to three freshmen in the starting lineup. Catcher Alex Entriken ’06
proved his capabilities at the plate with two home runs in a 6-5 loss to Buffalo. Taylor Shoop ’06, who
pitched against Buffalo, helped his own cause starting off the day two-for-two with an RBI. Jay Heafner ’06 has been
solid at third base and has collected some key hits versus Buffalo and Western Carolina. Sam Navarro ’05 and Michael
Muniz ’05 have combined for 28 hits, six doubles, and are the top two on the team in batting average
with .333 and .367, respectively.

The team has a long season ahead and will look to make the adjustments needed. Muniz sums up the game
plan for the rest of the way, “We just need to eliminate some of our mistakes, be more aggressive at
the plate, and step up in big situations. We have the talent to compete; we just need to put it
all together.”

The ’Cats will continue conference play with a two-game series with Wofford in Spartanburg, SC. The games are set for
Saturday at noon and Sunday at 1:30 p.m.

Bethany Schott ’03
Women’s Basketball
Hometown: Aurora, Colorado
Major: Religion and Biology

Schott, a co-captain, earned all-tournament honors as she led her team to the SoCon semifinals for the first time since
1999. She tallied 34 points and 24 rebounds in three tournament games.

Baseball vs. Yale
3:00 p.m. Friday

Saturday:
Lacrosse vs. George Washington
5:00 p.m.
Golf at Furman Invitational (through Sunday)
Lacrosse at Johns Hopkins
7:00 p.m.
Men’s Tennis vs. MIT
11:00 a.m.
Baseball at Wofford (doubleheader)
12:00 p.m.

Sunday:
Men’s Tennis at Georgia Southern
11:00 a.m.
Lacrosse at William and Mary
12:00 p.m.
Baseball at Wofford
1:30 p.m.
Women’s Tennis vs. Charlotte
2:00 p.m.
Track and Field at UNC Charlotte 49er Classic (through Sunday)
Women’s Tennis vs. ETSU
2:00 p.m.
Men’s Tennis vs. Appalachian St.
2:30 p.m.
