Love hes Pan . rasa

Young team jumps out to
a quick start with two 7-0
victories over local foes

By WEBSTER HARRISON
Staff Writer

The Davidson men’s tennis team opened
the season with two relatively easy wins.

Even with Jonathan Britt ’04 sidelined for
both singles matches, the Wildcats dismantled
the Royals of Queens 7-0 and also blanked the
Crusaders of Belmont Abbey 7-0 at the
Knoblach Tennis Center.

Donald Miles ’05 described the wins as “a
good start to the season. I think that everyone
played well, and we were well prepared for our
matches, both physically and mentally.”

The Wildcats began their matches at 9:30
a.m. against Queens College and jumped out
to a 1-0 lead thanks to three doubles wins.

Rob Haywood ’04 and Miles defeated
Queens’ number one duo with a score of 8-1;
Rob Gould ’04 and Britt overpowered their
opponents 8-2; and Geoffrey Mullen ’03 and
Brian Stonestreet ’04 shut out their foes 8-0.

After the match, Britt said, “I didn’t play too
well in doubles against Queens, but thanks to
Gould’s solid play, we were able to pull it out.”

Queens College took an even worse pum-
meling from the Wildcat men in singles, win-
ning only fifteen games in six singles matches.

Haywood cruised through his match at num-
ber one, winning 6-2, 6-0 over Chris Donelan.

Miles won 6-1, 6-2 over Nate Mann at the
number two slot, while Stonestreet over-
whelmed Aaron Brantley 6-2, 6-1 at the num-
ber three position.

At four, Mullen beat Brett Karpman 6-2, 6-
2, and Russ Burns routed Mark Thomas 6-2, 6-
0 at number five.

After his match, Mullen commented, “The
crowd support was terrific. I played really well
knowing that I had support up in the stands.”

One of the most impressive wins came from
Joe Cheaney ’06 at number six, who defeated
Jared Simms 6-0, 6-1.

Still excited from his first match, Cheaney
expressed his enthusiasm. “I was hungry for
my first collegiate win, and it tasted great,” he
said.

Coach Jeff Frank lauded the efforts of the
Davidson team in its singles matches, saying,
“Everyone hit the ball cleanly and hit the ball
especially well when the court was open.”

Queens may not have been too competitive,
but they were a good warm-up for a stronger
Belmont Abbey team.

The second match started out like the first,
with Davidson taking all three doubles matches
and the one doubles point.

Extremely pleased with his players, Coach
Frank praised their efforts.

“All three doubles teams played extremely
sharp this afternoon against Belmont Abbey,”
he said.

Although the doubles matches were close
in the beginning, the number one and two
doubles teams eventually ran away with the
matches.

Haywood and Miles won number one
doubles with a score of 8-3, Gould and Britt
took number two doubles at 8-2, and
Stonestreet and Mullen routed their opponents
at number three with a score of 8-0.

The men’s team pulled out six straight wins
in singles again, although the matches tended
to be a little less lopsided than the morning
ones.

Haywood beat Sergiu Pleiosu 6-0, 6-3 at
number one, often consulting his notebook
during changeovers.

Mullen continued his solid start, goose-
egging Jon Pedoulas 6-0, 6-0 at the number
four spot, while Russ Burns worked over Matt
Ottaviani 6-0, 6-1 in his match at number five.
Cheaney continued to impress Wildcat fans
with a 6-0, 6-0 blanking of Connor Toomy.

After two promising wins, the Wildcats
men’s tennis team is off to a solid start, and
Haywood said it best. “We’re young, but
experienced, and we’re going to build on our
experience from last year,” he predicted.

Argentina, Australia, Chile,
Costa Rica, Cuba, England,
Ireland, New Zealand, Northern
Ireland, and Scotland

Learn about our outstanding student
services and programs

Friday, February 7, 2003
10:30 — 12:30 pm
Student Information Table
Outside Chambers Hall (Belk Dorm End)
In case of inclement weather — table in Union
Lower Level
Meet Representative
Steve Seaworth

for study abroad
BUTLER UNIVERSITY

800-858-0229
www.ifsa-butler.org

Senior Experience Calendar

FINAL FROLIC!

Plan to enjoy ice cream and
celebrate with your classmates before
the Spring Frolics festivities begin on
Friday, April 25. Details to follow...

“Careers in...” Series:
(Sponsored by Career Services Office)

Careers in Education: Teacher, Faculty, Student Personnel, Special
Education, School Psychologist, Outdoor Education, Principal
Wednesday, February 12, 7 PM, location TBA

The Senior Class Gift has reached 79.9% pledged + paid participation!

Many seniors have already pledged to give: pay your pledge before
semester break to get it out of the way! Just log on to
https://www.davidson.edu/giving to pay your pledge. If the Class of 2003
reaches 75% PAID participation, President and Mrs. Vagt will donate
$12,003 on behalf of the Senior Class Gift to the Annual Fund. Don’t
miss your opportunity to support Davidson and show your class pride!

Upcoming events:

- “Careers in...” Series continues with monthly events through April
- Senior Dinners, sponsored by the President’s Office, continue
throughout the academic year