2. THE DAVIDSONIAN News - Wednesday, SEPTEMBER 24, 2003

Alcohol, from page 1

Walker says, “You put yourself in the situation where you are committing a blatant violation of a college rule, then the officer has an obligation to come talk to you.” According to Public Safety, there were less than twenty alcohol citations during the weekend of First Weekend Down. “I think it went great. The one thing that I asked was not to have the ambulance down on the court, and it did not come. I saw a lot of people having a great time,” Walker said. In a letter to the presidents of the Patterson Court fraternities and eating houses, Walker wrote, “This first weekend was proof positive that you can party and be safe.”

The inconsistency between the data showing an increase in alcohol citations this semester and claims from administrators that partying on the Court has been safe reflects a far larger shift in alcohol enforcement than in students’ alcohol attitudes. Georgia Ringle, Campus Health Educator, claims the increase in citations does not correspond to the “myths and self-fulfilling prophecies” of drinking on Davidson’s campus. Ringle also said that the increase in citations was a result of more freshmen, not more alcohol, since the ratio of hospital visits to freshman class size has remained fairly constant. According to Lyon, four students have been hospitalized so far this semester in relation to alcohol.

“Statistics are reflective not necessarily on the students’ attitudes and perceptions about alcohol, just on our consistent enforcement.” - Lt. Jim Lyon, Campus Safety

There has been an especially large interest this year in educating students about alcohol safety. President Vagt claims, “I’m not making moral judgments about drinking. The health and safety of you all is the key.” Dr. Tom Shandley, Vice President for Student Life and Dean of Students, agrees that alcohol education is vital for safety and claims that the school is doing all in its means to keep the students safe. “We work hard to do what we can to educate students about the abusive use of alcohol and its impact on their safety and health. We do a lot and will continue to do so,” he said.

The SGA also has a big role in linking student alcohol-related issues to the larger administration. Charles Washington ’04, President of the SGA, said, “The SGA is responsible for acknowledging the changing trends in policy and procedures. It is our job to relay new information.”

POLICE BLOTTER

Simple Physical Assault
Known student willfully pushed another student off the back porch of an eating house, causing minor injuries. Student has been referred for disciplinary action.

9/20 Eating House
Vandalism
Unknown person(s) willfully damaged contents inside an eating house. Damage is estimated at $20.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety.

West Nile at Davidson?
Officials downplay dangers but encourage awareness as skeeter season nears end
By Blevin Shelnutt
Staff Writer

Since it first appeared in New York in 1999, the West Nile virus has swept across the United States, infecting city after city and state after state. As of this summer, Mecklenburg County has become the latest area of the nation infected with the disease. The first human case of West Nile virus (WNV) in Mecklenburg County occurred in July when a 30-year-old woman claimed she was bitten by mosquitoes while gardening and then complained of mild flu-like symptoms. She was diagnosed with West Nile fever, a very mild form of the virus, and did not spend any time in the hospital. The second WNV case in Mecklenburg County was more serious. On September 13th, a man in his 40s was hospitalized with West Nile meningoencephalitis, the most acute form of the illness. Fortunately, he remained in stable condition. Not only have human WNV cases been reported, but five dead birds have also tested positive for the disease in the past few months.

What does this mean for Davidson students, and should we be concerned about contracting West Nile? Although the virus might appear threatening, only approximately one in 150 patients infected with WNV develop a more severe form ofthe disease. Those most at risk for critical illness are very young children, adults over the age of 50, and people who are immune system-impaired. Young, healthy adults infected with WNV will most likely not develop a dangerous form of the virus, but will instead only experience cold-like symptoms. Supervisor of the Student Health Facility, Jan Poole, stated, “Anyone in an area where WNV activity has been identified can acquire the disease, but most people who are infected will not have any type of illness.” Many times, the virus does not produce any symptoms in an affected patient. In more severe cases, however, WNV can produce flu-like symptoms including fever, headache, melancholy, muscle or joint pain, and occasionally nausea or vomiting. Sometimes WNV also causes encephalitis or meningitis—swelling of the brain and spinal cord, and photophobia—sensitivity of the eyes to light. West Nile is carried by infected birds and transported to humans through the bite of an infected mosquito. There are several precautions students can take to prevent being bitten. Because mosquito populations thrive in aquatic habitats, students should avoid bodies of water and eliminate any potential sources of stagnant water in their dorm rooms, such as live plants and flowerpots. When outside, students should wear long sleeves and long pants to shield skin. Students can also protect themselves by wearing an insect repellent containing the substance DEET and avoiding outdoor activity during the times when mosquitoes are most active, dawn and dusk. If a student suspects he has contracted the virus, he should see a physician. Testing for the disease can be done by the Mecklenburg County Health Department with a physician order.

Washington also related information about the new public safety policy which “will now send a police officer to every registered party.” So, is there a substance abuse problem on Davidson’s campus? Could our students be honorary members of the Delta House? While the numbers contradict themselves on increases in substance abuse, President Vagt stressed the notion that alcohol will always be an issue because of safety concerns. As the administration continues to improve their methods of education, so too will students continue to improve their social scene. In the words of Otter, “You guys up for a toga party?”

Cable access in their rooms, there will not be a need to provide more lounges. “Cable will lead us into the 21st century,” says Hubbard. “The lounge system hurts the community because it creates disagreement and tension over what to watch. One lounge per floor is still not enough.” Hubbard insists that cable is not the “bad thing” that the school makes it out to be. He believes that not having cable service in rooms puts Davidson behind the times, and makes students less able to deal with real-world distractions when they leave college. Dean Marsicano believes that it will be difficult for our infrastructure to provide additional cable service to the residence halls. Current construction and high costs are all challenges to the expansion of cable service. “Expanding cable access to any great degree probably means cutting other amenities to students,” explains Marsicano. Dean Marsicano says that the RLO is currently beginning a study to explore options about expanding cable and making the current service more satisfactory. She hopes that the RLO can share the results of the campus study with the SGA and work with them on this issue in the future. Hubbard is pleased about the progress that is being made and glad that RLO is now exploring options. “I want to make sure the student body, and especially the sophomore class, realizes that I am still hard at work on this issue,” Hubbard adds. “The fight continues.” Though the future of additional lounges and the expansion of cable service is uncertain, discussions with the SGA and RLO will continue in the coming weeks and months to find a sensible solution to the situation.

Two students watch cable TV in First Belk, one of now 27 lounges on campus. Lack of access to cable TV lounges has prompted RLO to consider them in student dorm rooms.