The Recruit grabs you from the start and doesn’t let go. One of the most popular worlds infiltrated by filmmakers
is that of international espionage. Guided by the fine performances of Al Pacino and Colin Farrell, The Recruit overcomes moments
of predictability, offering audiences an enjoyable cinematic glimpse into the CIA. Pacino’s character, Walter Burke, searches for new recruits to
become a part of the CIA’s international spy ring. His search leads to Boston’s MIT and James Clayton (Farrell), a
computer genius probably on his way to an uneventful job and life as a DELL computer programmer. Unhappy with that
prospect, Clayton accepts Burke’s offer and trains to be a spy. Clayton’s fast-talking, witty, and, at times, introspective character makes
close friends and enemies among his fellow recruits while catching the eye of recruit Layla Moore (Bridget Moynahan). Having finished
his training, Clayton is given his first major assignment: to locate and follow a suspected mole within the agency and
find out for whom the mole is working. Soon, Clayton is unsure of the real mole’s identity, for “in the
CIA, nothing is what it seems.” The audience also begins to question what is seen and heard. Driven to the
point of paranoia, Clayton moves towards a climactic battle with the mole. With this exciting plot, “The Recruit” suffers from
only a few moments typical of the action/thriller genre. However, “The Recruit” seems to realize its mistakes and moves away
from the stereotypical action as quickly as it falls into its trap. Disregarding these few points of the film, “The
Recruit” succeeds by relying on the acting talent of the great Al Pacino and a rising young star Colin Farrell.
The two actors’ conflicting styles - Farrell’s more reserved personality and Pacino’s loud and larger-than-life personality - create tension that
drives this movie to a successful and somewhat surprising conclusion. As the film leads the characters on a chase from
Boston to Langley, Virginia (CIA Headquarters) and throughout Washington DC, the audience can sit back and experience a highly enjoyable
spy thriller. I only wished during the fast chases through DC (my hometown), the film could have made a quick
and humorous stop at the International Spy Museum. Trust me, it’s a real place.

Director: Roger Donaldson
Written by: Roger Towne, Mitch Glazer, and Kurt Wimmer
Running time: 115 minutes
Rating: 3 out of 4 stars

Cash’s latest among his best
By Andy Heston
Special Contributor

Here at Davidson, we are taught to think. Specifically, we are taught to analyze, to evaluate, to think meta-textually, to
theorize, to exegete, to interpret, to offer readings, to organize our thoughts, and finally to wrap it all up into
a tidy bundle of four to six pages with a clearly defined thesis, specific textual evidence, and an MLA format
works cited page. There’s nothing wrong with that kind of thinking. It works perfectly in an academic setting. Sometimes, however,
things aren’t so simple or easily expressed. Sometimes you hear or read or see something and it’s so powerful and
overwhelming that it’s impossible to speak about, or write about, or really do anything about other than react at a
pre-consciousness level. It’s the feeling medieval Christians got when they walked into their cathedrals: a feeling of awe so powerful
that there’s no need to evaluate why it’s powerful, only to kneel and let the overwhelming feeling of reverence wash
over you. At its best, country music works that way. In country music, the words aren’t so important (though anyone
who denies the brilliance of country lyrics is just falling into the same dead dog-cheatin’ wife-busted-up-truck critical clichés). What’s important
is not what’s said, but who says it, and how. The same lyrics can move the earth or be completely
dismissible based on the voice that’s speaking them, the sincerity and the conviction with which the words are said. Which
brings us to the king of country music sincerity: Johnny Cash. His latest album, American IV: The Man Comes Around,
opens with Cash’s inimitable baritone speaking these words: “And I heard, as it were, the noise of thunder. One of
the four beasts saying, ‘Come and see,’ and I saw. And behold: a white horse.” The Biblical sense of importance
and urgency doesn’t let up over the course of the album. Even when Cash takes on lighter songs, like the
novel “Sam Hall” (basically just an excuse for Cash to say “Damn your eyes!”), he sings them with such conviction
and power that they are just as affecting as the more serious numbers. It’s almost morbidly fascinating to listen to
Cash’s voice. The man turns 70 on Feb. 26. He’s had a string of health problems far longer than can
be listed here. The sad truth is that Johnny Cash doesn’t have too many years left in him. Yet with
age, Cashhas found a new center that even his best work in the 1960s couldn’t claim. His songs are usually
simple expressions of love and spiritual satisfaction, and his voice is invariably monotone and hoarse. Yet none of these things
matter. Even when he takes on misguided material (his voice isn’t quite up to “Bridge Over Troubled Water,” and “Desperado”
is just a bad song), the only thing that matters is that Johnny Cash has become bigger than his songs
or his voice. I once heard someone describe a bad song as one you tolerate and a good one as
one you believe. And there are few people I believe more than Johnny Cash.

Davidson theater presents Perfect Six
Umberger returns to College to direct five students, actress

Press RELEASE
College Communications

Davidson’s theatre department will collaborate with three stage luminaries to present a workshop premiere of playwright Mark Eisman’s new comedy,
“Perfect Six,” Wednesday through Sunday, Feb. 5-9. Steve Umberger, artistic director of the Playworks and Summer Stage theatre companies, will
direct a cast of five students and Charlotte-based professional actress Claudia Carter Covington in a story about the quest for
perfection in the worlds of romance and professional skating.

Eisman, a prolific contemporary American playwright based in New York, will be in Davidson for the final week of rehearsals,
and to conduct post-show discussions of the play with the audience on February 5 and 6. All shows will be
in Hodson Hall of Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Show times are 7:30 p.m. Feb. 5-8, and 2 p.m. on Feb.
9. Seating is general admission and tickets are $4. Reservations may be made by calling 704-894-2340 from 1-5 p.m. beginning
on Thursday, Jan. 30. The play contains adult language, subject matter, and situations.

This will be the college’s second major collaboration with Umberger, who was also founder and artistic director of Charlotte Repertory
Theatre. He directed David Mamet’s “The Water Engine” in the late 1980s, and has wanted to work with Davidson students
ever since. He said, “‘Water Engine’ was intentionally a very difficult play, but the students really got it. Regardless of
whether they had intentions to become actors, they were smart, eager to learn, and tenacious. It was a pleasure to
work with them.”

Umberger was also at Davidson College last fall, producing several performances of “Shirley Valentine” and conducting two workshops for students
about auditioning for theatrical roles. When the theatre department decided to search out a new play to produce this year,
faculty selected Umberger as director because of his history of promoting young playwrights and new works through Charlotte Rep’s annual
new play festival. Umberger called his friend Eisman, who had brought several new pieces to Charlotte, including works like “The
Guy Upstairs” and “Shove” which had ended up on the Charlotte Repertory Theatre main stage.

Umberger also knew that Eisman has worked extensively with high school and college theatre students in workshops. Umberger said, “When
I spoke with him, Mark said ‘Perfect Six’ wasn’t totally done, and had only been through a reading last summer
at the Playwright’s Project of North Carolina. But it seemed so right for a college production. It’s a very funny
play, the characters are all about the same age as college students, and it concerns the ambitions and romance of
young people. So I asked him if we could workshop it at Davidson, and he agreed it would be a
good way to develop the play further.”

In addition to Charlotte’s Claudia Carter Covington, the cast includes Davidson students Annie Wadsman, James Flieder, Chandlee Caldwell, and Liz
Sykes. Ann Marie Costa, associate professor of theatre at Davidson, said the production presents a wonderful opportunity to students. “Bringing
in professionals from the regular theatre world helps students determine whether they want to make a career of it or
not. It gives those who do a start at networking in the field, and gives those who don’t at least
a healthy respect for the craft.”

Play: Perfect Six | Director: Steve Umberger
Showtimes: Today through Saturday at 7:30; Sunday at 2 p.m.

Paul Huppert, violin
Davidson College Campus
Christof Perick, conducting
Fri Feb 14 ~ 8 pm
Duke Family Performance Hall

A great classical music experience for children 10 & over.
Casual Dress
These informal, intimate and economical concerts feature some of the world’s most famous and best-loved works of classical music. The
series brings the Charlotte Symphony out of its home in the Blumenthal Performing Arts Center to perform in your neighborhood.

MOZART
Overture to The Magic Flute
Romances Nos. 1 & 2 for Violin & Orchestra

BEETHOVEN
Symphony No. 38, “Prague”

Student Tickets $5/General Public $10
OR purchase a 3-Concert Series Subscription for just $21 (a 25% savings!)
Check out our new interactive website: www.cmso.org
