8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Alcohol not the best way to relieve stress

Freshman year is rather stressful. Though part of me understands that the upperclassmen and even our professors experience the same
level of aggravation, I cannot help but occasionally wallow in the freshmen feeling of misery. A few days ago, in
an attempt to relieve some of this stress, I retreated to an exceptionally hot, long shower. I was soon engaged
in a random in-depth discussion with the occupant of the next shower over concerning the benefits of that most holy
of God’s gifts: a hot shower. As I began to think about the virtues of hot showers, I became more
conscious of the act of relaxing. This laughing session in the shower was one of the more normal ways I
have unwound over the past few weeks. Other methods include (but are not limited to) researching world records for longest
showers/baths, discussing the nature of the universe, or exploring the possibility of breeding Betta fish.

I found myself observing the way other students chilled. As I did so, my attention was grabbed by a method
of relaxation that disturbed me: drinking. I may live on a sub-free hall, but I am neither sugar nor spice;
I hold nothing against alcohol, and even anticipate trying some in the future (the way future, Mom and Dad, the
way future). However, I feel that there are right and wrong ways to indulge in alcohol. Drinking a few glasses
with friends when you are in a good mood sure looks like it could be a good time. On the
other hand, drinking when you are depressed and tired, and particularly when you are alone or with friends who are
as stressed-out as you are, does not look like much fun. In fact, it looks downright dangerous, putting you in
a position of not caring and being sloppy about keeping yourself from being hurt, either from the dangers of over-intoxication
or even from your friends.

While I truly appreciated the point of Nick Carlson’s article in the September 10th issue of The Davidsonian, “The Next
Step for Sub-Free Dorms: Caffeine?” I must respectfully argue that there is a pivotal difference between using soda/hot showers/junk foods
to relax, and drinking/drugs to relax: the former has never gotten anyone seriously hurt/killed/raped. Taking a walk on the wild
side may be fun, but the time and place for that is not when you are depressed.

So, have I found any answer to freshman gloominess? Yes, I think that I have. The answer came to me
as I was typing this and looked up to grin at a friend. I realized that all my ways of
cheering myself up have nothing to do with what I am doing, but instead with whom I do it with:
friends who smile a lot and laugh easily. Happy people. Surround yourself with them, O freshmen! They are a gift
from God, one even more precious than hot showers.

Other than the hasty push for war in Iraq, deficit-ballooning tax cuts, and anti-environmental policy, the Bush administration has drawn
some of the most intense criticism for its creation and continued support for the USA PATRIOT Act. Fashioned amidst the
post-9/11 paranoia, the act has been widely denounced by liberals and civil liberties groups who are unconvinced with Bush’s attempt
to make the country “safe on the cheap.” Elucidating this argument further, a recent New York Times editorial reads, “Rather
than do the hard work of coming up with effective port security and air cargo checks, and other programs targeted
at actual threats, the administration has taken aim at civil liberties.” As if the two-year-old act wasn’t bad enough, Bush
and Ashcroft have been attempting to use the rekindled fear and remembrance of 9/11 on its two-year anniversary to draw
support for expansion of the Patriot Act’s “terrorist-fighting” provisions. Joining more than 160 cities and towns across the country, the
town of Davidson, with the support of Davidson College students and faculty, is in the process of drafting an anti-Patriot
Act resolution “reaffirming their constitutional rights.” The initial version of the Patriot Act expanded the state’s powers of domestic electronic
surveillance. Now, Bush hopes to broaden the Act by allowing the government to seize documents without a court order, expand
the use of the death penalty, and grant greater latitude for judges to refuse bail to defendants who “pose a
threat” to society. Critics of the broadened powers express outrage at the first idea of making absent a fundamental check
of police conduct: judicial oversight. Moreover, the death penalty seems an odd deterrent to terrorists who seem fairly unconcerned.

Free trade preserves capitalism.
By RICARDO AMPUDIA
Staff Columnist

Capitalism, the mode of production based on the concentration of the world’s means of production in the hands of a
minority, necessitates the reproduction of a series of conditions at a domestic and international level that allow this concentration to
persist. This reproduction takes place either through repressive means (e.g. international military warfare, domestic police control) or through ideological means
(e.g. doctrine of free trade, patriotism). Free trade is, therefore, a component of the ideology of the industrialized nations and
helps to keep the gap between the wealthy centers of power and the miserable regions of the world. How is
this so? Free trade, in essence, advocates the virtual elimination of government intervention in the transfer of goods, services, currency,
and capital (one of the means of production). It is roughly a license for the world’s giant firms to operate
freely without government restrictions. This doctrine yields a series of results. First, the world’s poorest regions become subjected to the
world order as the storage houses for cheap labor and raw materials. The former occurs thanks to immigration restrictions as
well. Second, any attempt by any of the world’s poorest nations to give birth to industry becomes smashed by the
North American, Japanese, or European multinational firms, thus preventing those regions from becoming industrialized. Third, foreign investment by multinational firms
in the Third World does not contribute to a certain poor nation’s development. Critics of the broadened powers express outrage
at the first idea of making absent a fundamental check of police conduct: judicial oversight. Moreover, the death penalty seems
an odd deterrent to terrorists who seem fairly unconcerned.with the preservation of their life to begin with. Supporters of the
Patriot Act will seldom deny the act’s erosion of basic civil liberties that have been in place since this country’s
birth. Instead, they might hold that the safety of society against terrorists depends on these expanded police powers. However, as
the Supreme Court has often argued, we cannot rely on the “good faith” of police officers or federal agents who
might use these expanded powers only in the cases of terrorist suspicions. Patriot Act advocates fail to understand that all
Americans could now be subject to infringement of their civil liberties, not just terrorists. It should come as no surprise
that a majority of Americans still support the Patriot Act in a country where most citizens are ignorant of their
Miranda rights before they are arrested and read them aloud by the police. Too many people take their civil liberties
for granted. By allowing an event such as 9/11 to compromise the tenets of a constitution that has stood for
over 200 years, we have given the terrorists a shred of satisfaction. Terrorism proves effective when it forces a society
to change so that a government would rather give in to illicit demands than incur further damage. The more we
erode civil liberties, the less American we become, and the less we have to fight for in Iraq and beyond.

Capitalism does not develop a nation, but rather it exploits that nation by using its cheap resources to feed other
markets such as the North American and European ones. If Intel produces chips in Costa Rica, that production will count
as Costa Rican production even though Intel, with its very advanced modes of production, will hire about 50 cheap Costa
Rican laborers to push a few buttons while most of those chips will be exported to the United States and
most of the profits will end up in American hands, all the while the Costa Rican government provides tax breaks
and benefits so that Intel will produce there. Fourth, capitalism is able to survive in industrialized nations thanks to the
provision of cheap raw materials and labor by the world’s poorest regions. This keeps low price levels in industrialized nations
as well as better living standards than in the Third World. Therefore, Latin America, Southeast Asia, Africa, and Eastern Europe
finance capitalism in Japan, Western Europe, and North America thanks to free trade. This would not occur if the world’s
poorest regions were able to become industrialized, which is why, through reckless competition, large multinational firms need to do away
with Third World industry. As writer Eduardo Galeano concludes, underdevelopment is not a stage in development, it is a result
of it. As it became evident in the failed trade talks that were held recently in Cancun, the world’s poorest
nations are finally waking up from the free trade discourse, with Brazil leading the pack. We can expect the poor
regions of the world to adopt a model of industrialization oriented towards the interior, giving birth to domestic industry in
those areas and excluding the current multinational giants.

Students in the fitness center must open their eyes to the effects of their actions. I began my work-study experience
at Davidson behind the information desk at the Union. It was not the job for me. It took every bit
of willpower I possessed not to shout obscenities every time a student called for a phone number. Not only is
there an online directory, but there is also a student phone book issued to every student. Somebody once called for
the same number 5 times on a Friday night. In order to stop myself from buying a rifle, climbing to
the top of Chambers, and picking people off, I switched to working at the fitness center. The atmosphere there was
infinitely better. In addition to the obvious visual benefits that working in the fitness center provides for any sketchy male
(and what guy isn’t at least a little bit sketchy), I could listen to some music, get homework done, and
work out during work-study hours. As long as I kept everything relatively clean and washed towels regularly, I was rarely
ever hassled by students or the administration. The only drawback I have found is that I am forced to witness
the selfishness and self-absorption of the average Davidson student every day. It’s rather depressing. Towels are left scattered all over
the weight room. Machines are rarely cleaned off. Weights are put back in the wrong place. People never bother to
clean their shoes off before using a machine. I don’t think students act this way out of malice. Most people
simply don’t open their eyes to see the effect of their actions. Leaving trash and towels all over the place
doesn’t just affect fellow students, but also the paid staff of the Union. A little cleaning and picking up after
oneself is probably healthy for me. But the full-time Union cleaning staff should not have to deal with the collective
effects of our laziness. Of course, this self-absorption carries over into the recently hot topic of music in the fitness
center. Older professors and employees don’t want to hear Eminem and Ludacris use profanity. Students don’t want to listen to
WDAV while they lift. And I definitely do NOT want to hear any pop on the pop charts or cheesy
euro techno music while I am working. So, what’s the solution? I don’t think it is the removal of the
CD player. Nor do I think students should be restricted to listening to music the faculty finds acceptable. I do
think that the work-study student should have veto power over the music being played. We notice if there are non-students
working out and are better judges of volume and content. It’s not that I want to go on some soup-nazi
power trip as the supreme controller of the fitness center stereo. But next time you bring a CD in or
hate the radio station that’s on, ask the worker if it’s cool to change the music. If we say no,
then deal with it. Or, bring headphones. After all, just because you don’t like that I always put in The
Allman Brothers and Led Zeppelin doesn’t mean that it’s not a lot better than the crap you want to listen
to.
