“I thought it was a good combination of humor and sincerity, but I wish I had seen more of the Davidson men there.”

Rebecca Titus ’03

“It was my third time seeing it, and I thought it was good to see such a liberal play at Davidson. I especially enjoyed the glimpses of other cultures, like the Native American monologue.”

Tim Kelley ’04

“I liked it because it gave me insight as to how women view themselves and how they feel about their bodies, and it made me think about how I could treat women better.”

James Taylor ’06

“I thought it was hilarious and well done, but the most important part was the strong message about sexual violence.”

Amy Edwards ’04

Arts & Living Editor

When so many films abuse melodrama, Rabbit-Proof Fence exploits our emotions for a purpose. It documents a great injustice that isn’t as historical as we might hope. Until 1970 the Australian government “removed” children of mixed aboriginal and white ancestry from their mothers. They were taken to Christian schools that taught Western standards of behavior and English, prepping them for lives as domestic servants.

The film tells the true story of Molly, Daisy, and Gracie, three aboriginal girls kidnapped from their mothers by the Australian government. The girls arrive at a “school,” and soon, the older girl, Molly, escapes with Daisy and Gracie in tow. Their destination is home, 1,500 miles away. Their legs provide the only transportation. They are 8, 10, and 14 years old. What happens is extraordinary. Surviving on their wit, luck, and the kindness of strangers, the girls find their way home by following the titular fence. Description of their journey home would be tedious and unnecessary. Rabbit-Proof Fence is a spare film, one that lets its story and the involved emotions speak for themselves.

The girls are played by Everlyn Sampi, Tianna Sansbury, and Laura Monaghan. They give bare, simple performances perfectly suited to the story. Kenneth Branagh plays A.O. Neville, the government official in charge of “relocation.” Neville is obviously the villain, but Branagh plays him straightforwardly: he believes he is doing no wrong.

What else can be said about Rabbit-Proof Fence? It’s a sparse, effective film that communicates an important message. We know who is good and who is bad, and our reaction to the film is sadness. Director Philip Noyce never makes a wrong move, especially at the end. It is a happy moment, but as the film’s endnotes remind us, the girls and their mothers can only escape so much.

On the other hand, Talk to Her is as intimate as movies can get. It doesn’t juggle plot like Memento or Mulholland Drive. Rather, it throws so many emotions at the audience that at times we are overwhelmed. Do we laugh or cry? Should we sympathize or chastise the characters?

It is the latest from Pedro Almodóvar, the man behind films like All About My Mother and Live Flesh. It’s also his most serious work, but it doesn’t lack his unique sense of humor or ethical dilemmas. Presented as a short, silent film, one scene is particularly exhilarating. We laugh while it disturbs us more than anything in superficial films like Requiem for a Dream. Talk to Her is a film of substance, supported by the fact that Almodóvar has received an Oscar nomination for direction.

The film stars Javier Cámara and Darío Grandinetti, two men in love with comatose women. They care for the women, they read to them, bathe them, sit by them day after day. Surprises emerge that I should not reveal, and perhaps I have already revealed too much.

Talk to Her has more emotional range than any other movie of which I can think, and it is as unique, vague, and specific as any film you will ever see. Contradictory? Yes, but that is what Almodóvar is all about.

Rabbit-Proof Fence and Talk to Her are both playing at Birkdale.

What’s the best way to reach over 3000 members of Davidson’s campus and the surrounding area?

Advertise in the Davidsonian!

For more information or to reserve ad space, contact Gregg Wallace (704-894-7087, grwallace@davidson.edu) or Jeff Larrimore (704-894-6743, jelarrimore@davidson.edu).

Celebrity Spring Break brought to you by StudentCity.com! Book now and save up to $100 on all international trips. Party like a rock star with MAXIM Magazine and Jackass’s Steve-O. Call 1-800-293-1445 for details, e-mail sales@studentcity.com, or book online at www.studentcity.com.