THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 3, 2003

Staff Editorial

Union meal plans
rob students of
more than money

Summer is a time of change at Davidson.

Construction abounds, the fiscal year rolls over, new professors join the faculty and new faces take their place in the Wildcat family.

This year, students arrived or returned to campus optimistic and excited about the coming year. However, one change left a bitter taste in many mouths.

During the summer, the Union Cafe changed its meal plan program. The Cafe stopped counting a variety of pre-packaged items including bottled drinks, snack bars, candy, gyros and other sandwiches, and other items formerly covered by the $5 credit allotted to meal plan users between 6 and 8 p.m. In return, students got a paltry 10-cent increase in the value of the equivalency, to $5.10.

The change flies in the face of the Union Cafe’s mandate. The Union Cafe’s monopoly of on-campus, non-cafeteria dining is not justification for abdicating its primary mission of serving the student community.

This profit-increasing measure denies students the ability to purchase the foods they want with the money that they have paid.

The problem is more significant in that it is part of a trend designed to decline the value of student meal plans. Already in some meal plan options, the value of Bonus Bucks and average cost per meal does not equal the financial cost of the meal plan, assuming every meal is used.

While the Union Cafe is not directly responsible for this change, they ought not play along in decreasing the value of student meal plans.

Further, freshmen are forced into buying a 19-meal plan, and are now denied the option of obtaining the foods they desire—having already paid for them. Forcing students to pay for meal plans that bar certain items from appearing on that list amounts to double-charging students.

If Davidson intends to continue running the Union Cafe as a for-profit business, as is becoming more and more evident, administrators ought to open up on-campus competition. Anything less allows monopolistic price-setting that robs students blind.

Since when did a school so proud of its Honor Code condone stealing?

Patent Sweater —

THE ACT OF FAINTING IS
LIKE BEING IN A TENDER
EMBRACE -

Your LIPS ARE THE
TOOL AND YOUR CANVAS
IS THE OBJECT OF YOUR

Ali Fitzgerald

I THINK YOU
MAY BE SLIGHTLY
TOO LITERAL FOR

Thanks from alumni serving in Iraq war

Thank you so much for the wonderful boxes of goodies I received from Davidson. They arrived at just the right time!

My unit is leaving Kuwait for Baghdad tomorrow. We are a Military Police unit that will be responsible for establishing criminal detention facilities throughout the city. The lotion, snacks, chapstick and baby-wipes will all come in handy.

I shared the box with other soldiers and they were both appreciative and incredulous that my Alma Mater sent me a Care Package.

I told them, “That’s the Davidson way - Serving Others!” Please pass along my thanks to all those who contributed. I particularly appreciated the note from the 3rd Rich Women (my own Freshman hall).

Unfortunately, I will not have e-mail access once we leave Kuwait, but I will send a snail-mail update to Davidson once things settle down. Thanks for thinking of those of us in the military!

CPT Kelly Davis Uribe (’93)

P.S. The Maxim magazine went over well with the guys!

Just wanted to extend my thanks, and that of the soldiers serving with me, for the great care package sent from the “Girls of 3rd Rich” on behalf of the Davidson Alumni Association. Shared the goodies with my whole team - it went fast. Also handed out the thoughtful toiletries to the guys who were running short.

We’ve been traveling fast across the whole country of Iraq. We’ve been through Baghdad, Tikrit, Baqubah, Tuz and are currently in Kirkuk. Everywhere we’ve traveled we’ve been greeted warmly by a nation of liberated people. The broad smiles of the children, waving as we pass through, have convinced us all that our mission is worthwhile.

Would like to pass on particular thanks to those young ladies that included their inspirational words along with the package: Claire Shelhamer 3rd Rich ’06, Allie Martin, Sarah Cantrell 3rd Rich ’06, Rebecca Moore ’03, Leslie Hemspon 3rd Rich, Allison 3rd Rich. All did a lot to make our day. We really appreciate all the support from the homefront.

Ironhorse!

Rocky Kmiecik '85
Lieutenant Colonel, Armor
OIC 4th Infantry Division Assault

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor.

Please e-mail. See items of less than 250 words to davidsonian@davidson.edu.

ENVIRONMENTAL FRIENDLY

THERE ARE MANY REASONS TO

LID PROTECTS SLOPPY SIPPERS,
MINIMIZES SCENT OF STRONG-SMELLING
BEVERAGES.

LARGE HANDLE

FROM REVEREND RON:

HANDY 16 OZ. SIZE

MAKES HOT BEVERAGES COPE
EVEN WHEN YOU’RE CLUMSIEST.

HIDES CONTENTS

We reserve the right to edit for content, brevity and grammar.

THIS FALL

CUPS ARE BETTER
SOLO CUPS

ASIDE,
VE CUPS.

Just sit back and enjoy your drink without any actual
rules. Is there no cups exception?