Friday, October 24, 2003

Chambers
10/11 Richardson Stadium
Larceny of Cat Card
Student reported that he placed his Cat Card on the bench at Richardson Stadium before a run around the track. While running, he saw a strange man standing next to it. When he returned to retrieve the card, it was missing.

10/12 Hart
Damage to Property
Unknown inebriated persons willfully micturated upon a student’s memorial altar.

10/13 Patterson Court
Damage to a light pole
The light pole located in front of Warner Hall was damaged. The top portion of the light was completely severed and lying on the ground.

10/13 Ryburn Parking Lot
Damage to a vehicle
Student’s 2003 silver Honda was damaged by unknown person(s). Damage resulted in a long scratch along the left side of the vehicle. Damage is estimated at $1,000.

10/17 Main St. and Glasgow
Assist Town Police in DWI
Campus Police assisted Davidson Town Police in conducting a traffic stop on a Davidson student who was caught driving under the influence (DWI).

10/16 Belk
Assault with Water Balloons
Unknown person(s) willfully catapulted water balloons upon unsuspecting pedestrians exiting the Commons.

10/17 Chambers
Larceny of Credit Card
Unknown person(s) willfully entered into a secured area and removed a credit card, which was then used to make several unauthorized purchases. Case still under investigation.

10/19 PiKA
Damage to Property
Unknown person(s) willfully damaged ceiling tiles in the PiKA fraternity house. Damage is estimated at $800.

10/17 Belk
Aid to the Ill
Campus Police responded to a report of a student passed out in the hallway. When officers arrived, the student was lying on the hallway floor, in his own vomit. Student was transported to Lake Norman Regional, where he was treated and released.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety.

International Festival Sunday
10th annual DIA celebration will celebrate campus diversity
By Blevin Shelnutt
Staff Writer

On October 26th, the Davidson International Association (DIA) will host its tenth annual International Festival. The International Festival consists of various booths representing different countries from around the world as well as several cultural events and performances. Students representing a diverse range of countries will host booths at the festival, allowing guests to learn about the basic aspects of culture for each country as they play music, show clothing, and provide ethnic food. A flag parade will also take place in which all participating countries will be displayed.

Along with the booths, the International Festival will present several performances, including a Latin Dance, a United Arab Emirates dance, an Indian dance, a Bulgarian song, and a Martial Arts display. DIA was founded in 1993 in an attempt to unite international students on campus and organize them to help educate themselves and other students about their respective cultures. The International Festival is DIA’s biggest event for the fall semester. The festival draws over 300 people every year, and nearly fifty students work together to execute it successfully. This year has the largest number of participating countries in the history of the festival; twenty-three countries will be represented.

Through the International Festival, DIA members hope to help educate Davidson students concerning the diverse cultures and backgrounds of their peers. Jimin Kim ’04 said, “Some people aren’t aware of the basic facts about these countries. The International Festival will help people learn where we are from, who we are, what we eat, what we wear.” Amrote Abdella ’04, president of DIA, said, “We want to have an event in which students and participants can come together to share their cultures with each other.”

The International Festival booths and performances will begin at noon this Sunday in the Brown Union Atrium and last until 3:00. Admission is free and free food will be provided.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2003

West Wing’s Anna Deavere Smith will give Reynolds lecture
By Allison Whiteman
Staff Writer

Next Tuesday, the Public Lectures Committee will sponsor a lecture by Anna Deavere Smith, a noted actor, playwright, and teacher. Smith has devoted herself to commenting on social issues through the arts. She has written plays about the Crown Heights Riots in Brooklyn, N.Y. in the early 1980s and about reactions to the Rodney King trial in 1992. She seeks to illuminate social problems not by choosing sides but by portraying characters on all sides of the issue.

Her performances are the result of a combination of journalist-style interviews and theatrical performance. Smith interviews all sorts of people who were involved. She then creates a performance using only the real words spoken in the interviews. The performances take the shape of a series of monologues. Smith is a master of imitation; she not only speaks the person’s real words, but affects their mannerisms so that the audience can get the full effect of this character’s personality and stance.

Smith has also had work on network television shows. She has appeared on ABC’s “The Practice” and has a recurring role on NBC’s “The West Wing” as the president’sNational Security Advisor. She is also currently serving as the Artist-in-Residence at MTV. In addition to her acting career, Smith is a teacher. She is currently a professor at New York University in the Department of Performance Studies and the Center of Art and Public Policy. She founded the Institute for Arts & Civic Dialogue, a summer initiative that ran for three years, 1998-2000. The institute was dedicated to creating art that provoked dialogue into underlying civil problems. Smith’s lecture next Tuesday will combine monologues from three of her plays with commentary about them. Anna Deavere Smith is being brought to Davidson by the Public Lectures Committee, a committee of several appointed faculty members and a few students. She is sponsored by Davidson’s Reynolds endowment fund for lectures. Dr. Suzanne Churchill, Associate Professor of English and a member of the committee, suggested Anna Deavere Smith as a lecturer. Dr. Churchill saw Smith’s play “Twilight: Los Angeles,” a commentary on the 1992 Los Angeles Riots, when she was living in New York City. As a committee member, Churchill wanted to choose a lecturer that would appeal to students as well as faculty, staff, and the wider community. “Students had expressed the concern that the Reynolds lectures did not respond to their interests,” said Churchill. “We wanted to bring a speaker that had greater student appeal.” Churchill and other committee members were also motivated by a campus-wide initiative to bring more diversity to the college. Smith is one of several Reynolds lecturers in a series called “Desegregating American Culture.” This series, which is sponsoring prominent African American speakers, is honoring the 50th anniversary of the Supreme Court’s Brown v. Board of Education decision to desegregate schools and the 40th anniversary of the March on Washington. This is the same series that brought William Ferris in September as well as Ishmael Reed and Al Young earlier this month. Julian Bond, chair of the NAACP, will speak at Davidson in November. Recommendations for lecturers are usually proposed to the committee by faculty members, but can also be proposed by students. The members of the committee then decide who is feasible to bring to the college. In addition to choosing lecturers for endowed series such as the Reynolds, the Public Lectures Committee provides money to academic departments to help them sponsor their own lectures.

Families to converge on campus
Students await parents’ arrival, scramble to clean dorm rooms
By Darcie DraupT Staff Writer

Roughly 1,000 moms, dads, and relatives will begin arriving Friday for the College’s annual Family Weekend, giving many students the chance for a rare free meal, as well as a reason to clean their rooms. “For students it might be a little of a mixed blessing. It can be awkward for the two worlds to collide. But my hope is for most students it is a festive time,” Associate Dean of Students Kathy Bray-Merrell said. Some students are still wary of the meshing of the two worlds—their old home life and their new college one. “I’m looking forward to seeing my parents, but it might be kind of awkward to try to talk to my parents while amidst my friends,” freshman Zach Kazior said. “It might be better to go off campus.” On campus, however, the college has planned nearly constant activity. “The events range from regularly scheduled athletics to showcasing the different talents students have,” Bray-Merrell said. “It’s also an opportunity for parents to come and meet the professors that have been so influential in their students’ lives.” About 1,000 family members plan to come this weekend, according to Bray-Merrell. Various activities planned by the college include lectures delivered by Dr. Annie Ingram, Professor of English and Director for the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies, and by Dr. Eric Mount, Lilly Distinguished Visiting Professor of Religion. The weekend also features various music entertainments, including the premiere of Frankenstein: The Rock Opera! at Duke Performance Hall. The Davidson College Symphony Orchestra, Concert Choir, and the Davidson Jazz Ensemble perform Friday night, while Saturday afternoon the Generals, the Delilahs, and Androgyny perform with the Davidson Dance Ensemble. Some students feel that while it is nice to have planned activities, the extent of the activities is not necessary. “I think the on-campus stuff is kind of lame. I feel like my parents are here to see me, even though that sounds kind of selfish,” Will Greendyke ’05 said. “It’s good to go out and get a real meal. It’s good for them [my parents] to see my life and my friends I always talk about.” Greendyke said he thinks activities like musical performances by students are good, while lectures on topics such as the value of liberal arts education are not as valuable. Of course, some students will be “family-less” this weekend, but nonetheless many find different ways to have different kinds of family fun. “I look out for other people that are ‘orphans,’” Kate Harrison ’05 said. “Usually some kind parent will take us orphans out for dinner.”