Staff Editorial

It’s not such a great day to be a Wildcat

Despite our frequent frustration with Davidson’s workload and lack of a social scene, we are typically proud to be students
here. Today, we are not. So many of the stories that circulate about Davidson make it look like a school
for preppy rich kids. Now people are looking at us as preppy rich kids who like to kill innocent animals.

Friday’s incident—whether a bet, dare, prank, pledge stunt, or temporary loss of judgment—is both reprehensible and incomprehensible. Once the unimagined
happens, though, a swift and sure response is necessary. Last spring, several Patterson Courthouses were vandalized by students who received
very little punishment. In the fall, a rash of student pranks warranted an administrative warning. Beating a goose to death
crosses a new threshold. Whatever the legal outcome of this incident, Davidson must send a strong signal that this type
of behavior won’t be tolerated.

Polished press releases and seven-second sound bytes have their place in the effort to manage a local and regional media
blitz. But once the cameras leave campus, what will have changed? Will Davidson try to force good out of bad,
imposing community service sentences in an effort to mend already tenuous town/gown relations? Will a bigger picture emerge, one in
which fraternity pledging is less secretive and certainly less silenced? Will these students be made examples in a declaration of
The Davidson Way?

Ultimately, of course, the actions of a few deviants will not significantly shape the legacy of a school that’s been
around for nearly 140 years. In a liberal arts education, though, every experience seems teachable. Basic lessons from this situation:
don’t kill geese. If you kill geese, don’t do it at 2 p.m. on a Friday in a public park.
But if you kill geese at 2 p.m. on a Friday in a public park, don’t expect to get off
easy.

Davidson has an opportunity to assert the values of which it boasts so proudly in admissions literature. And while it
is—and should be—easy to sympathize with the students who surely did not anticipate the consequences they are now facing, the
College cannot and should not allow its proud tradition to be tarnished by letting these students off the hook.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor in Chief
Matt Garfield

Managing Editor
Caroline Hauser

News Editors
Amee Patel & Brandon Carroll

Perspectives Editor
David Crow

Arts & Living Editors
Derek Loh & Chris Schmader

Sports Editors
Richard Connolly & Mike Giglio

Photography Editors
Eron Earley-Thiele & Matt Whited

Advertising & Business Managers
Jeff Larrimore & Gregg Wallace

Circulation Manager
Laura Filosa

IMPORTANT LIFE LESSON ABOUT FOLLOWING THE RULES: We should preserve Second Amendment

Many people advocate the need for more “gun control” in addition to the numerous and restrictive laws in the United
States regulating the possession, use, transportation, sale, and storage of firearms. Their “common sense” suggestions, however, epitomize the many myths
surrounding firearms in America today.

The anti-gun lobby thinks that gun licenses, firearms registration, and safety tests are “common sense” measures. Most gun owners have
already passed rigorous safety requirements to become hunters, target shooters, military personnel, and law enforcement officers. Considering it would require
20% of the US population to jump through numerous bureaucratic hoops en masse, requiring safety tests and gun licenses would
be a huge logistical challenge whose cost would far exceed any possible benefit.

Registration of firearms is an entirely different measure. Firstly, it constitutes a serious breach of personal privacy. Why does the
government need to know what kinds of firearms I own? Furthermore, every country that has mandated the registration of firearms
has later used that information to confiscate them. The simple fact is that laws won’t prevent accidental deaths. Storing firearms
around minors comes down to how much you valueYour loved ones, and if you love them, you educate them about
the lethal power of firearms and leave your guns under lock and key. Unfortunately, this common-sense safety measure didn’t happen
in a recent Houston case. Advocates of “gun control” generally fall into two categories: ones that are ignorant of the
truth and others that use general ignorance about firearms to advance their goal of a gun ban through gradual deception.
When you place their “common sense” measures under a microscope, they don’t benefit the American people and won’t save lives.

Matthew H. Paramore ‘03

---

Word from SGA President

Two terrible events occurred this past weekend in the town of Davidson; one took place in a park off of
Griffith Street while the other will continue as long as the media links Davidson College with animal cruelty. While the
events that transpired were not typical of Davidson students, or even an accurate reflection of the students involved, they will
forever be linked to this institution. These events will affect our collegiate careers, as many people will continue to associate
Davidson College as “that place where a goose was killed.” I feel confident that I speak for the entire student
body when I say that the acts of violence were both senseless and horrific. We must act from this day
forward with a new cautiousness because skeptical eyes are watching from outside our campus boundaries. We as a collective body
reject such actions and are still dealing with the shock of learning that our peers could do such a thing.
It is important that we as a student body do everything in our power to help rebuild the reputation of
our school through our future actions, which will be judged under new light and with a higher level of scrutiny.
I would like to say to the surrounding community that this act should not be seen as representative of the
College, its fraternal system, or the greater student body, but rather separate and divorced from our standards as a community.
We, as students, are proud to be here and will continue to be. No one act by no one individual
will be able to replace all the great things about this place.

Grady Patterson ‘04
SGA President

---

We shouldn’t vote this way

Well, here we are again. It’s that time of the semester where we get to be good, responsible Davidson students:
Elections! I received a number of emails this morning, in addition to reading chalk on the walkways outside and flyers
all around campus saying, “Make a difference in your school and vote!” At first, it struck me that it was
my job as an involved Davidson student to vote and let my voice be heard. But when I went to
the link and began to look over the candidates, I realized that I had no idea about anything. With the
exception of SGA President and Vice President, I didn’t know anything about any of the candidates running for the various
smaller positions. I didn’t even know what some of the acronyms for the positions stood for. I found myself simply
looking through the lists and, if I recognized a few names, would vote for the person who gave me the
impression of responsibility or commitment. The voting site even had a link to the Davidson online Facebook. The college assumes
that we know nothing about the candidates and encourages us to make our decisions based on how a person looks.
I agree that it is important for a student to be involved in his or her school, but it can
be detrimental for a student body to be voting for candidates about whom they know nothing. There need to be
more opportunities for the student voters to get to know the candidates.

Dan Lewis ‘05

---

AND NOW ADOSH’ FILGSA ... WITH LAURA FILOSA
