THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2003

John Leverett ’05 leaps for a TD while Damion White ’05 looks to pass during Saturday’s loss. Fourth down brings heartbreak for ’Cats

photos by Peter Roady

Last minute Dayton TD wrecks football's upset bid

By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

Perhaps for the first time since the undefeated 2000 season, Davidson students, faculty, staff, and alums believed in their Davidson football team. On their feet, fans clapped, cheered, and jeered as the Dayton Flyers faced 4th and 18 from Davidson’s 43 with Davidson winning 25-24 and only 52 ticks left on the clock. They just knew deep down that Davidson was about to upset the two-time defending PFL champions who were currently riding a winning streak (13) greater than their average points-allowed this season (9.2). That single instant reminded fans what a homecoming football game is all about: players playing their heart out, underdogs succeeding simply through drive and determination, and the overall tenseness that only shows up when something special is about to happen.

That split second, ultimately, resulted in a letdown. The Dayton QB dropped back with plenty of protection and delivered a bullet up the middle, splitting the Davidson secondary and gutting the crowd of all emotion. Two plays later, the Dayton running back rolled into the endzone to give the Flyers the lead for good and crush the dreams of Wildcat fans and players alike.

“It’s as tough a loss as I’ve ever had, just rips your heart out,” commented head coach Mike Toop on the 32-25 loss. “[Dayton] didn’t get caught up in the excitement of the game in that final drive. We just got too excited.”

“It’s kind of one of those plays that you think of over and over again and wish you could have it back,” said linebacker Mark Wilkerson ’06, who led the defense with thirteen tackles and a forced fumble. “The coaches had a great game plan, and we just didn’t completely execute it at the end of the game.”

Darryl Childers
Football
Hometown: China Grove, N.C.
Major: History

In the heartbreaking Homecoming loss to Dayton, Childers amassed six solo tackles and, more impressively, three quarterback sacks, setting the tempo for the defense. His three sacks give him a total of eight on the season, three shy of the Davidson single-season record.

After methodically driving down the field on their opening possession to grab a quick 3-0 lead on a Chris Costello ’04 field goal, Dayton responded fiercely with a quick slant that went for a 70-yard touchdown pass and a 7-3 Flyer lead. Davidson’s offense responded with a touchdown, though, and the defense held strong until the final minutes of the half, when a Dayton drive and interception on Davidson’s ensuing possession resulted in two quick touchdowns, leaving the 'Cats trailing 21-10 at the half and some fans heading for the cozy, air-conditioned dorms.

Davidson would storm a comeback, though, as they used a lengthy drive of their own and key plays by quarterback Damion White ’05 to grab a TD. On Dayton’s next possession, Darryl Childers ’04 knocked loose a fumble that gave the offense another great opportunity to score that they capitalized on, giving them a 25-21 lead that ultimately pulled fans back into the stadium.

“They had full control of the game at halftime, and we came back and took it away from them,” said Toop. “That’s why I’m proud of the team.”

The fans returned just in time to witness John Leverett ’05 pound the ball up the gut, running his best late in the game and eating up the clock. He led the squad all the way down the field only to be brick-walled at the goal line, setting up a field goal opportunity with 2:28 left. The attempt was blocked, though, setting up the momentum for Dayton’s final drive.

Said Toop, “[This game] is the kind of game where you second-guess yourself to the grave.” There is little time to get overThe loss, however, as the next three games will be PFL opponents, starting with Jacksonville on the road. Said Wilkerson, “We don’t have any choice but to rebound strong and play Jacksonville tough, because they’re a great team as well.”

Field hockey pushes streak to 7
No. 1 Wake Forest up next
By BEN WHIGHAM
Staff Writer

Boasting its longest winning streak in over a decade, Davidson’s field hockey squad now prepares to host the top-ranked Wake Forest squad in its toughest match of the year. While the ’Cats have not lost a game since suffering a blowout loss against North Carolina in week two, facing the Demon Deacons, who edged UNC in a meeting earlier this season, promises to challenge their streak.

A 2-0 victory against Albany over the weekend pushed the Cats’ winning streak to seven games. Christina Auer ’04 proved a decisive factor, distinguishing herself with both a goal and an assist. “It was all eleven of us working together,” says Auer of her score, which she attributes to the team’s understanding of how to play as “a single unit.” Liz Schoening ’05 scored the ’Cats’ second goal, and another impressive outing by keeper Sarah Nolan ’05 counteracted the Great Danes’ 19-16 shot advantage. Nolan’s fifteen saves frustrated Albany’s offense throughout the match.

Played at home on Homecoming weekend, the Albany match attracted a sizeable number of fans, including many alumni. With their impressive win streak, Davidson field hockey is starting to draw some much-deserved attention. “It felt like we were carrying on the legacy of Davidson field hockey,” says captain Kathleen Fenn ’04 on playing before the alumni.

While team morale is the highest it has been all season, the Cats must now brace themselves for the ensuing onslaught of the top-ranked Wake Forest squad. The Demon Deacons, who are defending national champions and favored to repeat this season, represent the ’Cats’ strongest opponent of the season. They counter Davidson’s seven-game streak with a thirty-game march of their own and feature several All-Americans. Still, spirits are high among the Wildcat ranks. “It’s a rare opportunity,” says Fenn of the chance to compete against Wake Forest. “No other Davidson team will get the chance to play against a national champion at home.” “We’re all just really excited about the game,” adds Nolan, whose presence in goal has proven a major factor in the ’Cats’ recent success.

Looking towards the future, the ’Cats will travel to St. Louis over fall break to square off against some conference opponents. This weekend will largely shape the ’Cats’ standing within the Norpac Conference. “We know we have it in us to win those games,” says Nolan of their upcoming matches. The ’Cats currently stand at 3-0 in conference play and are the top-ranked team in the eastern division of the Norpac. For the moment, however, the Wake Forest showdown demands nearly all of the ’Cats’ focus. Despite being tremendous underdogs, they are approaching the match in the same team-focused manner that has defined their seven-game run. “If it has to end,” says Fenn of the streak, “what better way than against the national champions.” The upbeat ’Cats are not banking their hopes and spirits on a victory. Instead, Wake Forest represents an opportunity, as Nolan puts it, to “show everyone what Davidson field hockey is all about.” The game is scheduled for 7 p.m. on Wednesday on the Turf field near the senior apartments. The ’Cats will battle their northern neighbors in what looks to be, at the least, a chance to make a statement.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Robbie Reynolds ’07

In Wednesday’s game against Duke, the ’Cats got a much-needed goal from Reynolds. Reynolds ran on to a superbly played long ball by Nahum Navas ’06 and beat the Duke goalie with a left-footed blast to the near post. The goal, the first of Reynolds’ college career, helped the ’Cats beat the Blue Devils 2-0.