Jeter’s out for now, but the season is just getting started
By NATHAN BOHON & JOHN HEIMBURGER - Special Contributors

To please our editors, we will break this comprehensive MLB (Major League Baseball) preview down by division. If it were
up to us, this article would be nothing but a constant laugh-fest about how Derek Jeter will not put on
the pinstripes until mid-August at the earliest.

AL East
We'll start with the AL East. Disclaimer: we refuse to pick a division champion in this division. Why? Because either
the Yankees or the Red Sox will end up winning, but we just can’t pick either squad and maintain personal
integrity. That said, the Blue Jays will win the AL East. Point of Question: Derek, since when is running into
catchers at third base a good idea? Just a thought buddy.

AL Central
Bohon: I got the Twins. I love team defense and that is what the Twins bring to the table. The
White Sox should give them a good run with Magglio hammering the ball all over the new Comiskey Park (I
refuse to call it US Cellular Field). Buerhle and Colon make up a pretty nasty 1-2 combo, but they did
pick up former Red Sox first baseman Brian Daubach. That automatically puts them out of contention for the postseason.

Heimburger: I really like the White Sox offensive explosiveness. Look for Frank Thomas to have an enormous year, all the
while pissed off at the Chicago front office for exercising his diminishing skills clause and replacing it with an incentive-laden
contract. The Big Hurt hit .404 this spring. That success should continue. Billy Koch’s addition from Oakland should bring some
stability to the bullpen.

Bohon: I had no idea, but I just realized Omar Vizquel is still playing baseball.

Heimburger: Yeah, but ex-teammate Jose Mesa vowed to “kill him.” Oh, and the three other teams in this division are
terrible (Detroit, Cleveland, and Kansas City).

Bohon: Sorry Professor Foley, the Royals are going nowhere.

AL West
Heimburger: This is the clear-cut best division in baseball. You have to love Oakland’s pitching depth with three number one
caliber starters. I like the A’s.

Bohon: I agree. Miguel Tejada should explode in his contract year (read: year before the Yankees implement the five-infielder tactic
with two shortstops). Edgar Martinez is also still playing baseball, I had no idea. That has to give someone else
an edge in the division.

Heimburger: In spite of your dislike of Edgar, I like the M’s as the AL wild card. Hopefully, Michael Eisner
will finally sell the Angels. Oh, and the Rangers should see a lot of 15-12 games with that solid pitching
staff they have assembled down there.

Bohon: There is a reason why GW sold the team. Alex Rodriguez + $250 million = 25 games out of
first.

NL East
Bohon: Braves, I feel like the Millwood for Estrada deal really solidified the catcher position—not that I’m impartial.

Heimburger: I disagree. I found that trade to be offensive. I can’t believe the Cardinals refused to give up a
35-year-old second baseman for Millwood. I almost vomited when I heard that. Anyway, Expos. No, seriously, I really hope the
Phillies don’t win the division. I like to see teams blow a bunch of money in the offseason and then
choke. It makes me laugh. I love Vlad.

Bohon: You cannot win with Mo Vaughn. Tom Glavine as your number one starter is dubious (especially considering his Benedict
Arnold-like offseason decisions).

Heimburger: The Marlins have a lot of young talent, especially on their pitching staff, but just won’t have enough offense
to do any damage.

Bohon: I like Josh Beckett. Also, back to the Mets, Cliff Floyd will play 15 games for them before being
moved for the twentieth time in five years to Tampa Bay.

Heimburger: We forgot to mention them in our AL East preview.....they’re terrible.

Bohon: So are the Orioles.

NL Central
Heimburger: Well, this is interesting. We have a very competitive division here. I think experience should push the Cardinals through
(a 120-42 record is fair) and a clinch by mid-August right around the time when Jeter gets healthy.

Bohon: I think the Cards will win. I love Jeff Kent’s addition to the Astros’ clubhouse. That should net them
about negative 25 wins as he tries to fight every single player on the team (I believe the operative word
is CANCER) causing number one starter Roy Oswalt to break his hand while punching Kent in the face.

Heimburger: You’re gonna agree there? What about the Cubs? They always come up big in late September and October?

Bohon: Indeed, they’re extremely clutch. I also laugh about the “healthy” Ken Griffey Jr. Pirates and Brewers, please fold.

Heimburger: The Reds have...some young talent, but their pitching is quite suspect. The Pirates put up 10 runs on them
on opening day, ouch.

NL West
Bohon: The D-Backs should ride the arms of Curt Schilling and Randy Johnson for one more year—Unit’s opening day start
notwithstanding.
Heimburger: I like the Dodgers. They have a lot of pitching, a solid lineup and Shawn Green, who is becoming
a premier power hitter.
Bohon: I would have picked the Giants, but Bonds will be walked upwards of 500 times this year rendering their
entire lineup useless.
Heimburger: He still may hit 60 homers.
Bohon: The Rockies and the Padres are jokes. I miss Tony Gwynn.
Heimburger: Yeah, that Phil Nevin injury really killed the Padres’ chances. The Rockies will hurt some people with their offense,
but fail to really contend for the division. Any final thoughts?
Bohon: Yeah, their pitching is bad, Enrique Wilson for MVP (note: he’s Jeter’s backup).

Our Baseball Picks
Bohon
AL MVP: Manny Ramirez
NL MVP: Gary Sheffield
AL Cy Young: Barry Zito
NL Cy Young: Curt Schilling
World Series: A’s over Cards

Heimburger
AL MVP: Pedro Martinez
NL MVP: Albert Pujols
AL Cy Young: Pedro Martinez
NL Cy Young: Roy Oswalt
World Series: Cards over Mariners

Wildcats host Ohio and Ohio State this weekend, still searching for first win
By SARAH NOLAN
Staff Writer

Co-captain Becca McDevitt ’03 summed up the thoughts of the Davidson Women’s Lacrosse team. “It’s not easy to lose repeatedly,”
she said, “but when you can end a game knowing that you gave everything you could, then you know you’ve
done your job.” As her team heads into its tenth game still seeking its first win, this attitude is the
one thing that they find helping them through the season. Head coach Mary Schwartz agrees, saying, “Everyone’s being very upbeat
and positive. We’re 0-9, but we still have seven left and are just taking one at a time. Our focus
is the next game.”

As the ’Cats have been on the road for the last four games, they’ll be at home for the next
two. Recently, the team took on Towson University last Wednesday at Hilton Head Island, S.C. The only first half scoring
that Davidson saw came from Lindsay Frank ’05. It wasn’t until halfway through the second half, when the ’Cats were
down 9-1, that the scoring picked up again. Loren Seaton ’03 sparked the rally, followed by Eloise Grose ’06. Then,
with two minutes left to play, McDevitt put away her sixth goal of the season off of an assist from
Grose. Brandon Jacob ’05 followed suit off of another assist by Grose. Coach Schwartz was impressed with the defensive effort,
which included five saves from goalkeeper Becca Nussbaum ’04. The final score was 10-5, but the ’Cats put up a
definite fight with 27 groundball pickups, 16 shots, and seven draw controls.

The next match-up was against Duquesne University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on Saturday. A primary goal going into this game was
to be the first team to put points on the board. According to Schwartz, “We wanted to score first and
build intensity with our attack.” This goal was achieved when McDevitt scored her sixth goal of the season off of
a feed from Jacob. Duquesne was quick to answer back with two goals, but the ’Cats went on a three-goal
rally, with Lindsay Frank ’05 scoring off of an assist by Grose and McDevitt putting away two unassisted goals. This
closed out the scoring for Davidson until the end of the game, when Allison Matlack ’03 scored off of an
assist from Abby Mead ’06 to bring the final score to 10-5. Despite the loss, a tough defensive effort was
led by co-captain Emily Rice ’03, who picked up three ground balls, caused two turnovers, and won three draws, and
Nussbaum, who picked up six saves. McDevitt also had a standout performance, picking up seven ground balls. She leads the
team with eight goals on the season.

While the ’Cats are still awaiting their first victory, they have yet to give up. Coach Schwartz is confident and
says, “We just have to put it all together and play as a team because that’s what’ll give us success.”
As far as the rest of their season, Schwartz comments, “We’re just looking to play 60 minutes on Friday, and
that’s our focus.” The players themselves seem to have a positive outlook on the rest of their season, and McDevitt
says, “We’re still fighting for our first win, and we’d really appreciate fans coming out on Friday at 5 p.m.
to cheer us on.” The game will be played against Ohio University on the turf field.

DON’T LEASE UNTIL YOU SEE US!
$459 Special on our spacious 1 BR apartments!
1 mile off I-77 & Exit 30 near Davidson College
Hurry! They’re going fast!
704-892-1859
835 Beaty Street
Davidson, NC 28036
