By BRANDON CARROLL, News Editor

A selection process that began last summer is drawing to an end, and soon Davidson College will have filled its five tenure-track faculty openings. The openings result from the retirement of current faculty members and funding for a new position. The entire process can last nearly a year. At present, three of the openings have been filled.

Anne Blue Wills, a 1988 alumna of Davidson and Phi Beta Kappa, will join the religion department. Tim Chartier, currently in a post-doctoral research program at the University of Washington at Seattle, will join the mathematics department and has the education to also teach computer science courses in that department. Finally, Mike Gwasco has accepted the position to teach history courses focused on the Colonial Period in America. Gwasco was about to finish a two-year stint as Visiting Assistant Professor in History. The two other positions should be decided upon in the near future.

Vice President of Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty Clark Ross explained the college’s selection method. First, Ross said, current faculty will announce their retirement, alerting the college to the need to find a replacement. The academic department involved will identify the area of need in the field.

This year, Dr. John Kuykendall’s retirement created an opening for an American Religion professor, while Dr. Malcolm Partin’s retirement and Russ Snapp’s departure leave openings in the history department. In addition, Professor Todd Will’s departure created a vacancy in mathematics, and a grant from the Freeman Foundation has enabled the college to create a tenure-track Chinese Language position. Partin’s expertise was European History, whereas Snapp taught Colonial and early United States History.

After identifying the need, departments request permission from the Dean of Faculty, currently Ross, to authorize a search for tenure-track positions. Typically, advertisements are placed in professional journals to invite applications. While each department has its own variation on this process, members of each department then gather and select from the received written applications 15 to 25 applicants that they would like to speak with more closely. Most disciplines have an annual meeting which members of the department and most of these applicants attend. Ross said that Chemistry and Political Science are notable exceptions to this, since their national discipline meetings do not coincide with the hiring process. If a candidate does not attend the meeting or there is no such applicable meeting, phone interviews are usually able to suffice at this stage.

“One of the advantages we have as a department is the National Mathematics meeting occurs in early January,” said Ross.

---

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

2/18 Residence Halls
Larceny of Bicycle
Unknown person(s) removed an unlocked bicycle without permission from the owner. Total loss is estimated at $400.

2/21 Baker Sports Complex
Larceny of Money
Unknown person(s) entered a Baker Sports Complex office and removed money from the office desk. Total loss is $150.

2/22 Residence Halls
Alcohol Violation
Known student was referred to the Dean’s office for underage drinking.

2/22 College Student Union
Suspicious Person
Known person was identified by Union staff and students attempting to solicit on campus. Person was escorted from campus.

2/23 Patterson Ct. Parking Area
Damage to Property
Victim reported that the windshield of her vehicle had been smashed. Unknown suspect or cause at this time.

2/23 Residence Halls
Alcohol Violation
Two students were referred to the Dean’s office for underage drinking.

---

Get a taste of life in one of America’s greatest cities. Earn academic credit living, working, and studying in Philadelphia! Financial Aid applies and Academic Credits transfer!Dr. Stephen Davis, Professor and Chair of Mathematics. “We decided on 25 [individuals to talk to], and 24 were at that meeting in Baltimore. The entire department went to the meeting, and by the end, 10 of them had met all of us.” After interviewing these individuals, a department will recommend two to three candidates to the Dean for the purposes of inviting them to campus. These on-campus visits occur in January or early February. During the on-campus visit, the candidates meet with faculty in the department, student majors, the Dean of Faculty, President Vagt, and faculty in other departments. Davis emphasized that the visit involves “a luncheon with the students, students-only.” All candidates usually do some kind of presentation. Ross said, “Each candidate is expected to do some kind of presentation for faculty and students; in fact, in some departments, a candidate both teaches a class and gives a research-related presentation.” The presentation offers the department an opportunity to gauge the teaching ability of the candidate, portraying them in a classroom or lecture setting versus the interview setting or merely on paper. Davis said, “We have them do a math coffee. We don’t have them teach a class,” to observe their undergraduate level of research. The department then recommends a decision to hire to the Dean of Faculty, who usually consents. The president then extends the offer of a tenure-track position. “On the last visit, the person left on a Wednesday morning, and on Monday we met to decide on who to recommend,” Davis said. During that time, the members of the department “let our thoughts settle, and got input from students.”

Autism, from page 1

Deficit in theory of mind. This last symptom is especially important because it means an autistic child cannot assume what another person is thinking or understand another person’s emotions. Each year, more and more children are diagnosed with the condition. The disorder affects about two in 1000 children, meaning that approximately once every twenty minutes, another child will be diagnosed with autism. As we learn more about the condition, however, there is hope for improved quality of life or a cure. Currently, many believe that somewhere between eight and 20 genes contribute to autism, and this is only one of many advances that have been made in the understanding of the condition. Most of these advances have come since research into the disorder increased over roughly the past decade. With increasing federal funding in the form of the Children’s Health Act and donations from organizations like Cure Autism Now, more scientists are taking on autism research and making progress. Following Popkin’s presentation, Andrea Bertrand spoke more directly about what Cure Autism Now does. She talked about the fundraisers that the organization sets up, as well as the gene bank that CAN helped establish. She emphasized the important role that CAN plays as the largest non-federal funding organization of autism studies in the United States, and she ended by detailing what the Davidson chapter can do to help. D-CAN hopes to involve students in national fundraising. D-CAN also wants to forge links between students and families with autistic children through various outreach programs. In order to get involved in D-CAN, contact John Pitts at jopitts@davidson.edu. For more information about Cure Autism Now and how you can help, go to www.canfoundation.org.

WAKE MBA

Wake Forest University

Top-ranked school

Looking for top-ranked undergraduates

Application deadline May 1, 2003

Apply online at www.princetonreview.com or www.mba.wfu.edu

THIS IS YOUR WAKE-UP CALL

Contact us at 800.722.1622 or admissions@mba.wfu.edu

WAKE FOREST Babcock GRADUATE SCHOOL of MANAGEMENT

Internationally Ranked | Internationally Recognized | Internationally Respected

www.mba.wfu.edu