Del Toro’s latest fails to excite

With Oscar-winning lead actors and an Academy Award-winning director, “The Hunted” should be a highly entertaining thriller. However, the film
emerges as unbalanced, incomplete, and annoyingly slow.

“The Hunted” is a game of cat and mouse between a covert operations soldier-turned-murderer (Benicio Del Toro) and the man
who trained him (Tommy Lee Jones). The movie opens with a highly explosive and violent sequence as Aaron Hallam (Del
Toro) and his fellow soldiers enter into the heart of a massacre in Kosovo. The film then makes an abrupt
transition from the war-torn Kosovo to the quiet woods of Oregon. There Hallam begins his killing spree, striking then moving
into the shadows. This change from fast-paced battlegrounds to the rural woods is difficult for the audience to accept, and
the opening war scene feels out of place with the rest of the film.

While “The Hunted” offers the opening sequences as motivation for Hallam’s crimes and JT Bonham’s (Jones) personal search to stop
him, the film develops into one long conclusion. Characters and conflict do not meet before the final push to a
resolution. A poor attempt to develop a climactic sequence involves Aaron’s return to his past love. He is depicted as
more humane and less of a monster, but the film quickly leaves that plotline, as if it were unimportant. As
a result, “The Hunted” feels incomplete and unsatisfying.

However, the performance of Tommy Lee Jones and the direction of William Friedkin produce at least a viewable film. Tommy
Lee Jones again demonstrates his ability to portray authority in pursuit of a criminal. He played a similar character in
“The Fugitive.” While JT is not the fast-talking detective of the Harrison Ford thriller, Jones’ more subdued performance here is
equally successful in developing a relationship of respect between the cat and mouse.

“The Hunted” exhibits Friedkin’s style, which made him famous as the director of “The French Connection” and “The Exorcist.” During
the early moments of the film, Friedkin’s ability to highlight Del Toro’s face while hiding the rest of his body
in darkness makes Hallam even more menacing. Unfortunately, neither Jones’ acting nor Friedkin’s direction make this uneven, slow, and excessively
violent film enjoyable.

Director: William Friedkin
Written by: David Griffiths, Peter Griffiths, Art Monterastelli
Starring: Benicio Del Toro, Tommy Lee Jones, Connie Nielsen
Running time: 94 minutes
Rating: 2 out of 4

---

Abroad journal: Paella and Zara in Granada
By Joanie Gidas
Special Contributor

This week we introduce a new feature about Davidsonians abroad. Joanie Gidas spearheads the section with her experiences in Granada,
Spain.

“There is nothing as bad as being blind in Granada.” So states the refrain painted upon the pottery sold in
one of Spain’s most beautiful cities, Granada. Located in the southern province and amphitheatered by the snow-capped Sierra Nevadas and
the olive-tree infested Spanish plains, Granada is breathtaking. It will literally take your breath away if you hike up the
steep cobblestoned streets of the Albaicin, the city’s old Arabic quarter. But if you make it all the way up
to the Mirador de San Nicolas, your eyes will be rewarded with a head-on view of the Alhambra, a palatial,
Moorish city that has watched over Granada from the peak of Mount Sabiko since the 9th century. Don’t even try
to compete with the Spanish women on the climb up there — miraculously enough, your Nikes won’t be able to
hold a candle to their stilettoed leather boots.

The Alhambra is the most frequented monument in all of Spain, whose main industry is tourism, and was an attempt
at creating heaven on earth. The architectural treasure is dear to Granadinos’ hearts and is the pride of the city.
This affection is ironic because the Arabs created the Alhambra, a group whose presence is resented by the majority of
Spaniards. Granada was the last stronghold to fall to the Catholic monarchs Ferdinand and Isabel during the Christian invasion of
the Moslem Empire that at one time included most of Spain. In Granada, the famous pair gave permission to Christopher
Columbus to build ships for his voyage, which is commemorated by a larger-than-life sculpture sitting upon a fountain-shrine in the
middle.of the city. Ferdinand and Isabel are buried in the Capilla Real in the city. Modern-day Granada is bustling with
shopping Spaniards, street musicians, tons of students, and sightseers from all over the world — except from 2 p.m. to
6 p.m. The oft-repeated claim that Spain celebrates more national holidays than any other country is true. In fact, Spaniards
celebrate one every day, and it is called Lunch. At 2 p.m., the entire country shuts down. Shops, restaurants, and
markets close, classes are postponed, and the streets are emptier than the curling venue at the Olympics. The madre brings
out the steaming paella she has been preparing from scratch all morning. And it really is from scratch: it’s not
uncommon to wake up to a bowl full of several species of marine life sitting next to your breakfast in
the kitchen. The family feasts, drinks, and chats for a couple of hours, followed by a gloriously satisfying siesta, or
coma-esque nap. The day resumes with a cup of café (half milk, half sugar, with a hint of coffee bean)
and a trip to Zara. Zara is the most popular clothing store in Granada — imagine Express meets knock-off Gucci,
meets Woodstock, because that’s about how many people are there during the post-siesta hours. And they’re nearly all women. If
you think you’ve been shopping before, shame on you for underestimating the skill and determination of these Spanish fieras weaving
in and out of the racks and tables mounted with scarves, wallets, and sunglasses. They seem to have a secret
language (hmmm, maybe Spanish?) that only the employees, who are all impossibly beautiful clones of each other, can understand. After
the trip to Zara, it’s time for that chocolate croissant (eat one from La Ibense on Acera del Darro —
I guarantee your life will never be the same) on the way to El Corte Inglés. “Corte” served as a
kind of consumer-refuge for us American students. The massive department store sells all of the American labels we are familiar
with, so you won’t end up buying body wash that smells like Pine Sol (I made this mistake). It is
also the perfect place to buy $1.50 bottles of wine to take to the Plazas later that night. Spaniards are
big on botellón-ing, a massive gathering of the city’s young adults in the main Plaza, each person armed with a
bottle (or box) of alcohol. And there’s no need to cover it in a paper bag, for there are no
secretos among friends! Corte also served as practice ground for our attempts at speaking Spanish. One of my friends brought
her broken adapter to the electronics department. In what we all considered pretty decent Spanish, she explained to the employee
what the problem was. “Si, si,” he nodded and proceeded to the back room. A couple of minutes later, he
returned with the adapter wrapped in shiny paper with a bow on top. All Stephanie could do at that point
was flash a smile and whimper “Grathia” (the Andalusian version of “gracias”) on her way out. I’d like to say
the same to the city of Granada — Grathia for an unforgettable semester.

Sardonic Irreverence: Cash, Dave, Blix Cool
By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

Winning an Oscar: “Spirited Away” deserved its win for best animated feature more than any other Oscar recipient. Easily the
best film nominated for anything this year.

Random Internet Site of Fun (RISF): Check out www.cockeyed.com/hansblix/hans_first. Don’t miss the rally section. Apparently, the former Herr Director Inspector
races Volvos in his native Sweden.

Davidson Women’s Lacrosse: When you lose 16 straight games and still go out there and have fun, you have a
lot more patience and dedication than I ever will. Much respect. Their next home game is on April 4th. Go
cheer them on.

“Angels in America”: Very brave. Bravo, theater people.

Johnny Cash, “Hurt”: Cash’s Nine Inch Nails cover is haunting as hell. Good song, much better cover. The video is
pretty cool, too.

Not Cool Dave: As I listened to some story about a horse named Bob, I asked myself, Why didn’t we
get someone that rocks? We could’ve had Prince. But no, horses have these bits...

Losing an Oscar: Sorry to all of you — Kathy Bates, Toni Braxton, Diane Lane, Nicholas Cage, “Y Tu Mamá
También” — who deserved an Oscar on Sunday.

Breaking green Adirondack chairs: Based on the success of the Red pet, we should have known better.
