12 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2003

photo by Peter Roady
Damion White ’05 had a career-high 340 yards of total offense against Emory & Henry

By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

The defense wasn’t pretty, but the offense sure as heck was. Coming off a second-half offensive explosion a week before
against Butler, the Damion White-led offense tore up the field again, scorching the opposing defense for 614 yards of total
offense and 45 points in their 45-21 victory at Emory and Henry.

The rushing game contributed 323 yards to the heaping mound of total yardage, with John Leverett ’05 leading the squad
with 124 yards on 28 carries and two touchdowns. White put on another clinic, passing for 291 yards on 16-24
passing, racking up three touchdowns in the process.

“Offensively, we executed fairly well. We turned the ball over twice, which slowed us down a bit, but White made
good decisions,” said head coach Mike Toop. “We ran the ball well and threw the ball well, too.”

Linebacker and special teams man Mark Nesselroad ’05 felt the team’s confidence kept them in the game. “We started off
a little sloppy on defense and gave up some big plays,” he said. “They shouldn’t have scored more than once
on us, but we had a sense of confidence that we would win.”

Curiously, the statistics did not indicate the blowout that the score did. The Wasps tacked up a not-too-shabby 400+ yards
of total offense and actually led the time of possession battle. How did the ’Cats pull this one out then?
The answer’s simple: clutch play.

After going ahead against VMI 9-0 on several clutch plays in the first half in week two, the ’Cats ran
out of these big plays and got demolished in the second. The past two weeks, however, have seen different results,
with the team busting out the whoopin’ stick each time. This week’s clutch story was offensive consistency. The team converted
9 of 13 third-down conversions, while Emory and Henry did not fare so well, squeaking out the yardage on only
4-of-14 third-down attempts. With the ability to keep the chains moving, the ’Cats were able to overpower the Wasps, piling
up points and leaving Emory and Henry’s defense completely clueless.

“Third down is the big down of the football game,” agreed Toop. “You need to convert to win, and we
were able to do that last Saturday.”

Kudos must also be given to the offensive line, which prevented a single sack on the QB for the second
consecutive week and opened up big holes for Leverett to charge through. The defense, despite allowing a 400-yard offensive performance,
pitched in on the clutch play, swiping two picks and scraping up a fumble.

Leverett raves on the team’s consistency as the key to success. “We got over that hump with those games in
the beginning, but after the last two games, it’s been a little smoother and has let us gel more.”

The defense is still a concern, though, as they have consistently given up plays and haven’t proven they can stop
any offense yet. “Really, of the first five games, we have only played one good half of [defensive] football,” commented
Toop. “While we’re making the plays on offense, defensively, we get to the point of attack, and we’re just not
making plays.”

‘Relaxed’ effort dooms men’s soccer in loss to 49ers

By ERIN DELK
Staff Writer

It was a bittersweet week for the men’s soccer team. The Wildcats extended their unbeaten streak to six games with
a 1-0 shutout over High Point on Wednesday, only to fall to local rival UNC Charlotte 3-1 on Saturday night.

As co-captain Justin Porter ’04 remarked on the first game of the week, “We played really well under difficult conditions.
High Point played ‘negative soccer,’ in which they tried to bunker in and play defense for large portions of the
game, so we wereFortunate to convert on one of the many chances we created. We then proceeded to keep possession
of the ball for the remainder of the game.” The game started off slowly, and only midway through the second
half did Davidson really start to control the ball and pressure the High Point keeper. At the 72:15 mark, Cass
Baltz ’07 took a pass from fellow Mac Wilkie ’07 just inside the eighteen-yard box and fired a left-footed shot
past the goalie for the only score of the contest. Davidson out-shot High Point 10-1 in the second half of
action.

Unfortunately for the Wildcats, the momentum from the shutout did not carry over into the game Saturday night. As head
coach Matt Spear lamented, “The Charlotte match was an enormous opportunity wasted. It was the first home game in a
while, against a big rival, and in front of a huge crowd. We did not play with urgency, confidence, or
precision.” The ’Cats looked sluggish at the start, and at the 28:15 mark, UNCC’s Mira Mupier gave the 49ers a
1-0 advantage with an unassisted goal to the far corner of the net. Finally, with seventeen seconds remaining in the
period, the Wildcats tallied their only shot, and goal, of the half. As David Sartorio ’05 noted, “Jeff Davis’ cross
and Nick Hansell’s finish were impressive at the end of the first half, but we should have scored the first
goal and attacked the entire game.” Porter agreed: “Our relatively young team made a gross overestimation of home-field advantage. We
relaxed a little too much from the start, and that allowed them to gain some momentum that we could not
overcome.”

Charlotte built on this momentum in the second half by scoring another goal only four minutes into the period on
a header from a corner kick. The play got more physical, but the ref seemed content to let the players
battle it out. Sensing the urgency, the ’Cats stepped up their attack and created a lot of close opportunities. At
the 65-minute mark, senior Keith Nicholson’s volley from senior David Peoples’ cross sailed just over the goal. Ten minutes later,
Davidson had a free kick opportunity just outside the eighteen-yard box on the left side. Peoples bent the ball around
Charlotte’s wall and found sophomore John Latting’s foot on the far side. Unfortunately, his volley hit the post and bounced
out. The 49ers sealed the game two minutes later with a commanding finish from Floyd Franks just as the rain
started to come down. The game was called with three minutes left due to inclement weather.

Although the game was “a great individual effort by both Nick Hansell and Jeff Davis,” as Wilkie noted, the team
as a whole did not play up to its abilities. As Spear says, however, “with every result, we look to
learn and quickly move on. Duke is a great way for us to bounce back. Our players should be highly
energized to play to their potential against an ACC team.” The Wildcats face Duke here in Richardson Stadium Wednesday night
at 7 p.m. Charlotte ended the Wildcats’ six-game unbeaten streak just before the rain came.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

On Saturday, Damion White ’04 connected with Brett Dioguardi ’07 to put the ’Cats up 24-13. In the face of
an oncoming blitz, White avoided a sack and launched the 63-yard pass to Dioguardi with 1:11 to go in the
first half. By the end of the game, White had amassed 291 yards through the air on 16 of 24
passing with 3 TDs. A double threat, he also ran the ball seven times for 49 yards. The Cats went
on to win 45-21.
