DAVIDSON Total Revenue

Other 2%
Transfer From Operating Reserves 2%
Trusts, Gifts, Grants 10%
Auxiliaries (Net) 3%
Endowment (Operations) 14%
TOTAL ENDOWMENT 42%
Tuition from Students and Non-Davidson Sources 23%
Endowment (Fin. Aid) 9%
TOTAL TUITION REVENUES 60%
Tuition - Davidson Funded Fin. Aid 18%

2003-2004 $68,483,862

Budget, from page 1

Four years ago, we decided to set the money aside. We took this unusual step because we have a positive
variance when we close the books. These small surpluses are reinvested in the second year,” Norfleet said. With declining endowment
values, an institution has several choices: cutting costs, compromising its strategic priorities, taking “seed corn” from its endowment, or dipping
into reserves. Fortunately, Norfleet said that Davidson is in relatively good condition. Beyond the generosity of both large and small
donors, “our diversification in the endowment really helped us.

The Operating Reserve

“But the money in our operating reserve came largely from overshooting our fund-raising goals. The Development Staff have done an
almost unbelievable job, especially given the economic climate.” Norfleet also explained, “If over the course of the year, some budget
managers find ways to save money, their department’s budget will be adjusted accordingly. It must be our Calvinistic heritage,” Norfleet
joked, “but we have managed to make that happen every year since WWII,” noting that those surpluses are typically relatively
small. He cites the endowment’s performance in the late 1990s, donor generosity, and “modest over-enrollment” for providing the surplus funds
in the operating reserve. The ‘over-enrollment consisted of fewer students studying abroad than anticipated, according to Vagt. As a result,
the college took in additional tuition revenue that otherwise would have gone to institutions abroad.

Anticipating a long economic decline and slow recovery, the administration has for several years been collecting a rainy day fund,
the operating reserve. Norfleet said, “Normally such surpluses would go over to your capital budget, but because we saw the
economy getting sick three or four years ago, we decided to set the money aside. We took this unusual step
because we were nervous and scared about what we saw on the economic horizon. From a Monday-morning quarterbacking perspective, it
now looks like brilliant strategy. We’re just very fortunate. Bobby deserves a huge amount of credit for not only permitting,
but actually encouraging the accumulation of this modest pool of reserves.” The result is that Davidson finds itself in an
enviable position compared to its peer institutions. President Vagt said tapping the reserves was “projected not to reoccur.”

Tuition to Rise

In addition to drawing money from operating reserves, the budget approved by the trustees calls for an increase of 3.8%
in tuition. This increase is exactly in-step with increases in recent years, and Vagt defends it saying, “We'll be on
the low end [of similar institutions’ increases, but] this is cold comfort to a parent who receives an increase in
tuition.” Financial aid was increased in the budget in direct proportion to the tuition increase. Norfleet explained that the college
is currently engaged in the “Let Learning Be Cherished” campaign to fund financial aid, professorships, lectures, and many other areas
besides the very noticeable construction on campus.

Davidson currently has two primary financial priorities. The first of these is to keep its tuition increases below four percent
at a time when its peer institutions average increases of five to eight percent. Norfleet said that because of a
commitment to “socio-economic diversity” and “the values inherent in our heritage of church-relatedness, if we can hold back on the
rate of increase in that source of revenue, then Davidson becomes that much more of a value.” As a consequence,
some regional liberal arts schools like Sewanee and Furman, in some regards inferior in terms of their academic quality, are
reaching us in price. This makes Davidson more and more a tremendous “value for the dollar from the customer’s point-of-view,”
Norfleet said.

Davidson’s other primary goal — to increase faculty compensation — is in tension with this first goal. For years, Davidson
has ranked “at or near the bottom in faculty compensation among the top twenty-five liberal arts colleges in US News
and World Report.” This is unfair to current faculty and makes it difficult to attract and retain top talent.faculty and
hinders the college’s ability to attract the faculty candidates it wants, despite other perks. And in the long term, it
could threaten the quality of teaching, and therefore the very value we are striving to offer the students.

“There has to be a balance between the two,” Norfleet emphasized.

Thus the college aims to “give compensation increases that are the most competitive the college can possibly afford relative to
the various markets in which we compete,” according to the 2003-04 Fiscal Year Budget: Noteworthy Items report compiled by Norfleet
for the Board of Trustees. Norfleet said that tapping into the reserve allows the college to avoid passing on $1.5
million in tuition increases to students and yet still meet its priorities.

New Spending

It also allows modest programmatic increases in some areas. The largest of these is Academic Affairs. “In a tight budget
year... Academic Affairs is grateful that, not only did we have no program decreases, but we are able to increase
modestly some important items,” Vice President of Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty Clark Ross said. “Principally, one is the
upgrade of the near ten-year-old CHAL system at the library for a couple hundred thousand dollars.” Norfleet specified that cost
as $139,000. Ross also noted the library’s general fund also increased because of the increasing cost of journals and periodicals.
“In particular journal costs... seem easily to exceed five percent or more [rates of inflation. Journal publishers] have a mini-monopoly...
and we want to have them, have to have them to provide a quality education.”

Also in the increases, Ross said, “We’ve been able to increase some modest program deficiencies, some money for speakers or
equipment. We’ve been able to make some modest advance, and I’m just very pleased that we’ve been able to do
that.”

Norfleet said these increases were not frivolous. “New requests that were perfectly legitimate totaled $1 million,” but the college only
added $329,095 in new resources for Academic Affairs. Norfleet did not attempt to hide or spin the harsh reality of
Davidson’s financial situation, remaining perfectly candid while showing the college’s bright spots and its relatively good status compared to other
colleges and universities. He said, “The more the whole community knows about the institution’s resources... the better off everyone is
in understanding and helping with the hard decisions that have to be made.”

Kappa Sigma, from page 1

College President Bobby Vagt said Monday it’s unfortunate that the media coverage, particularly the cartoon, casts the entire school in
a negative light. “I regret that in the media coverage, all students seemed to be tarred with the same brush
as the seven,” said Vagt. “I regret that the one political cartoon characterized the institution based on the actions of
seven. I regret it, but you can’t complain about it because that’s the nature of news coverage.”

Kappa Sigma under scrutiny

One former fraternity president said house members are not always made aware of all pledging activities. And it may be
unfair to blame every member for the actions of a few. “I do think it was a very stupid, cruel
act, but the acts of those people reflected poorly on the upstanding members of that fraternity,” said Jimmy Swansbrough ’03,
a former Sigma Phi Epsilon president. “Even if it was condoned by Kappa Sig’s pledge educator, it doesn’t necessarily mean
the whole rest of the fraternity knew what was going on. The (members) that I know, I wouldn’t think they
would do anything like that at all. I’ve always known them to be great guys.”

Many other fraternities, including Sig Ep, encourage pledges to speak up if they’re uncomfortable during rush activities. “No one is
forced to do anything they don’t want to,” said Swansbrough. “Pledging at Davidson in general is very mild compared to
every other college I know of.”

Swansbrough said the heavy media coverage given to Kappa Sigma could even affect the post-graduation plans of its members. “It’s
getting around the nation and obviously bothering potential employers,” he said. “A friend in Pi Kappa had applied to some
grad schools, and they called to ask him if he was in Kappa Sig. We both assumed that if he
were, they would reject him. That makes me feel bad for the brothers in Kappa Sig who had nothing to
do with this act, and could potentially not get hired.”

A black eye for Patterson Court?

According to Patterson Court Advisor Grahaeme Hesp, fraternity enrollment at Davidson has declined an average of 10% over the past
10 years. Numbers over the last two years illustrate that trend. Last year, 49% of first-year male students pledged a
Patterson Court fraternity. This year, that number fell to 40%. Swansbrough said the goose incident could lead to an even
sharper drop. “It was a very rogue incident, but it’s obviously going to skew other students’ views of what goes
on during pledging or at any other time on Patterson Court,” he said. “I would say that’s a shame, but
stereotypes are made every day.”
