2003 | Baseball Preview

Wildcats hope deep pitching staff translates into wins

By Jerry Davis
Staff Writer

The Davidson baseball team will start its 2003 campaign in a new “light,” with hopes to avenge last season’s disappointing
finish in which the team came one win short of making the Southern Conference Tournament. This spring, look for a
veteran pitching staff combined with a less experienced but confident batting order. The newest addition to Wildcat Park might have
you watching batting practice from your fourth-floor Belk dorm room. The recently added lights will provide the opportunity for night
games, ending the dreaded double-header Saturdays that would have players on the field for almost eight hours.

“Having lights at our field is big time,” said Derek Wolpert ’03, a co-captain and pitcher. But will lights give
the team an extra kick needed to earn a Southern Conference Tournament bid, or will the team’s inexperience thwart their
talents and force another disappointing finish?

Pitching

After losing only two “weekend” starters (conference games are only played on the weekends), the pitching staff will be deep
and solid. Most of the 21 listed pitchers could vie for a starting role this season. “With our schedule, there
is a lot of innings to be played allowing the opportunity for new roles in our pitching staff,” noted Cooke.

Wolpert, a veteran right-hander, will be looked on to lead the ’Cats with his sizzling fastball and off-speed touch. Following
Wolpert will be Andy Carter ’05, who last year struck out 42 batters in 53 innings pitched. The rest of
the rotation will consist of co-captain Erskine Wells ’03, who has mostly been used for relief, Andy Demko ’03, and
Matt Hood ’03. Also in the mix are Brian Akin ’04, Matt Dellinger ’04, and Bill Riggs ’05.

Many of the starters mentioned could also serve time in the bullpen along with Justin Hartanov ’05 and Jay Heafner
’06. Giving innings in relief are southpaws Stephen Choate ’03, Andrew Gropper ’05, Lou DeTitto ’05, Matt Hanson ’05, and
Taylor Shoop ’06.

Field positions

Leading the infield will be a pre-season all-conference selection, D.J. Dailey ’03. With big numbers and a sound season, Dailey
could contend to be one of the best shortstops in the Southern Conference. “Not only does D.J. bring a significant
bat to our lineup, but he also has a good baseball sense that makes him a valuable mentor for some
of our younger players,” said Cooke.

Playing alongside Dailey will be sophomore second baseman Eli Benefield ’05, who started every game last season, and Jay Heafner,
who will occupy third.

In the outfield, the only returning starter is Sam Navarro ’05, a versatile right fielder who can track down a
fly ball anywhere in the field. Accompanying Navarro could be either Michael Muniz ’05 or Andrew Musashe ’05, who are
battling for the starting position. In left field, Chris Emond ’03 and Brett Peiffer ’04 will contend for playing time.

Masked behind the plate could be one of three players. Emond may see time at catcher as well as the
freshmen duo of Dan Obermeier and Alex Entrekin.

Offense

“There will be many new faces in the batting order this year. But going to the plate, we know that
we have nothing to lose,”said Wells. That’s the attitude these boys of spring will need to put runs on the
board. Look for Dailey, Navarro, and Emond to get the bats rolling. The ’Cats will also need support from Musashe,
Peiffer, and Matt Young ’03 to complete a decent lineup. The season opener is this Saturday at 1 p.m. against
Georgetown.

Derrik Wolpert ’03 will anchor the Wildcats’ starting rotation.
By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

Baker Sports Complex. West Dormitory. Knobloch Campus Center. Renovated Chambers. Baseball lights. Somehow the latter just does not seem to
belong, but the brand new lights added to Davidson’s baseball field will still make a big difference, if not for
the whole campus. With the additional lighting, baseball scheduling will become more academically sound for the players as well as
more fan-friendly for the students, families, faculty, and staff.

In the past, to schedule all three games of a conference series, the baseball team was forced to either play
a doubleheader on Saturday or an afternoon game on Friday, causing students to miss classes. “That made Saturdays pretty long,”
said head coach Dick Cooke. Now, both fans and players will enjoy Friday night home games, generally at 7 p.m.
“It’ll be a lot of fun to play a night game on a beautiful spring evening,” said Cooke.

The lights, consisting of the traditional eight-pole set with four from foul line to foul line and the rest in
the outfield, will also help practice time. “It gives us a better opportunity to have all guys at the start
of practice because the lights will let us go later into the night. It will also help the players academically
because they’ll have more time to get their stuff done and still make it to the dining hall on time,”
explained Cooke.

Recruiting will see fruitful benefits as well. Almost every conference team has lights already installed, and Davidson will shortly join
the group, as the lights are already functional and are simply being rotated into position. “It helps us keep pace
with what other people are doing,” commented Cooke. “Now, midweek away games are almost all at night so that we
never have to miss a full day of class.”

Along with the lights, the batting cages and pitching areas are adding overhangs so that even “if it’s pouring, we’ll
still have a place to practice,” Cooke said. He added, “From a quality standpoint, the lights are outstanding. They’re simply
top-notch in standards of seeing the ball. It’s a real luxury—a nice benefit and pleasant surprise.”

As the Davidson campus adjusts and improves, students continue to experience a better college experience. In this case, athletes and
fans will reap the benefits, as will general academics for players. To fully appreciate this addition, however, fans must support
the team, so head on out to the ballpark on Friday nights.

Experience Life:
The Philadelphia Center
Education at Work

Get a taste of life in one of America’s greatest cities. Earn academic credit living, working, and studying in Philadelphia!
Financial Aid applies and Academic Credits transfer!
www.philactr.edu
215.735.7300
