SRS US RR RELI EI EPL ROLE SREPE AI

Arena football and the Carolina Cobras experience

The game is only half the story in this crazy, rock n’ roll league

Delightfully tacky yet unrefined. We all recognize these four words as the select few used to describe the almost indescribable
atmosphere at Hooters Restaurants, which, incidentally, just opened a chain on exit 36 right near Chick Fil A. But, if
the Arena Football League (AFL) ever needed a motto, the same immortal phrase that conjures up images of great wings
and impressive busts would be entirely appropriate. You see, watching Arena League Football can be likened to eating a meal
at the aforementioned establishment: there are so many distractions that you don’t even realize the product you paid for actually
sucks.

Indeed, at Friday night’s Carolina Cobras game, genetically-blessed women clad in orange jumpsuits not unlike the kind elementary school crossing
guards wear, paraded around the arena during almost every stoppage of play throwing Hooters footballs and t-shirts into the crowd.
What’s more, at one point during the first half mysterious men running around on the catwalk began dropping Hooters parachutes,
which contained various prizes ranging from hats to calendars. As one of these parachutes descended into the crowd, two of
my buddies rushed over to the expecting group of fans and one tipped the incoming party-favor into the hands of
the other, who used his height advantage to snag the prize away from the throng of nine-year-olds. As you can
imagine, I was so proud to call these guys my friends.

Currently, the AFL’s “mission statement” reads as such: “To serve our community with pride and passion as a quality example
of individual and team excellence on the field...and within the community...by demonstrating the highest character, appreciation and respect for our
game, customers, teammates and partners...[by] providing a total entertainment experience.” A bold statement for a league that could most accurately
be described as a hybrid of the videogame NFL Blitz 2003 and the movie Any Given Sunday.

Arena League Football, though, hardly resembles the game most of us so enjoy watching on Saturdays and Sundays during the
autumn months. For starters, the field is half as long, measuring just 50 yards, and goal posts are a measly
nine feet wide, but are 15 feet off the ground. Perhaps the most noticeable feature of an Arena League field,
however, are the “goal-side rebound nets.” These nets serve as backboards (hence the “rebound” aspect) and on kickoffs any ball
that hits the net is in play, which makes the kick-returner’s job all the more difficult. Passing rules in Arena
Football are the same as outdoor NCAA Football, with the unique exception that any forward pass rebounding off the end
zone net is a live ball. Unfortunately, we did not see any such pass completed, or even attempted by either
Carolina (0-4) or its opponent, the league-leading Orlando Predators (4-0).

What we did see, however, was a 70-42 (yes, the games are all insanely high-scoring) Orlando triumph in which the
Predator’s quarterback, Jay Gruden, the brother of Super Bowl-winning coach John Gruden, went down in the third quarter with an
ankle injury that will more than likely keep him sidelined for the remainder of the season. Despite this unfortunate injury,
there were hardly any big hits during the contest primarily because players don’t have enough space to line someone up.
Most of the plays from scrimmage were 5-10 yard passes, save several 30-yard touchdowns that are somewhat common because the
receiver is allowed to go in motion before the ball is snapped, giving the offense a huge advantage. Defense was
visibly absent from the contest, as Orlando scored on what seemed like every possession. Carolina’s relatively low score can be
credited to the fact that the Cobras aren’t very good.

At halftime, the “Snake Charmers” performed their sexy dance routine during which the arena lights turned a musky red, much
like a strip club. Following this three-minute number was a stand-up comedian (whose name was easily forgettable). The comic was
booed off the floor within a matter of minutes, but not before dropping such jokes as this tasteful classic: “How
‘bout the war? I’m backing my president, but I think we should fight a country we know we can beat—like
Mexico. Hell, 70% of their population is already here, our boys shouldn’t have any problem.” Needless to say, the halftime
coordinator for the Cobras was fired on the spot.

One Cobra employee who impressed me, however, was the guy (or girl) running the Jumbo-Tron. After playing Johnny Moxen’s halftime
speech from Varsity Blues, this genius blasted “Sweet Home Alabama” loud and proud, as the 9,019 fans in the Charlotte
Coliseum went absolutely ballistic. It was a real Honky Tonk moment, the kind you expect from an arena full of
Southern sports junkies.

All in all, though, the Carolina Cobra experience receives my highest recommendation. It won’t replace the magic associated with NFL
Sundays, but tickets run as low as eight bucks and admission includes everything from an athletic contest (of sorts) to
free prizes from Hooters (the calendar is best). As one young female customer commented following the game, “Tonight was 50
percent about the game; the other half was about entertaining the drunken middle-aged men with hot girls.” And who among
us wouldn’t enjoy that?

Law serves a vital purpose in promoting gender equity

By Erin DELK Staff Writer

When I think of Title IX, the 1960s and my mother come to mind. Yes, strange, but it makes sense:
the only way I can think about Title IX is to imagine what it must have been like to grow
up without it. Hence the image of my mom, who did not have nearly the same opportunities I have had
to pursue sports at the college level.Most of us can’t even begin to understand what it must have felt like
to know that you really didn’t have much of a chance to follow your dream of playing a college sport.
As basketball player Courtney Laird said, “I know that if Title IX was not in effect, I would never have
come to Davidson, or be playing college basketball for that matter.” When Title IX was first enacted in 1972, 30,000
female athletes were competing at the intercollegiate level and these athletes received only 2 percent of all athletic dollars, while
170,000 men were participating and receiving the other 98 percent. Now, in a survey done in 2000-2001, the NCAA found
that over 150,000 women were competing at the intercollegiate level and in a 1999-2000 survey it was established that women’s
sports received 36 percent of the total athletic budget. That means participation in the past 31 years has risen by
411 percent. However, according to a recent NCAA count, more males still play at the Division I level: 62,677 women
as opposed to 84,284 men. Regardless, the amazing increase in numbers of female athletes has allowed for women such as
Courtney to come to a Division I school and play at the collegiate level. These positive aspects are all I
have ever really known of Title IX. Like most people, I don’t know the specifics of the amendment. When I
asked several of the athletes here at Davidson to comment on Title IX, I received many responses that they had
no idea what it even was or did not know any of the specifics and therefore didn’t feel comfortable enough
to comment. So why not answer the frequently asked question of what exactly is Title IX?

The 1972 amendment was created in order to promote equal opportunity for males and females not only in athletics, but
also in academics. The 1979 clarification of the rules presents three possible ways a school can comply with the amendment:
the percentage of female and male athletes in sports can be roughly proportionate to the overall student population, the school
can show that it has actively tried to accommodate for equal opportunities in female and male sports, and it can
show that it has made notable attempts to add more female sports. Unfortunately, this amendment, while promoting considerable growth in
female sports, has had serious side effects, despite the fact that only 21% of Division I schools are currently in
compliance with it. When I asked several male athletes here to comment on Title IX, all were quick to say
that while they were glad women were given more opportunity to play sports, they did not like the fact that
the amendment was taking away funding from male sports. To quote swimmer Diego Marquez, “Equal opportunity shouldn’t entail a decrease
in the opportunity for males. And I really feel that if you look at wrestling programs across the country, for
example, you can make the argument that Title IX is adversely affecting at least some male sports.” His point is
well taken, as it is true that nearly 170 wrestling programs, 80 men’s tennis teams, 70 men’s gymnastics programs, and
45 men’s track teams have been cut across the country in order to allow for more female sports. Some middle
ground must now be reached in order to continue the path of progress for both female and male athletes. As
soccer player Nick Hansell noted, “Not only are men’s sports hurt, but because there are so many women’s teams, women’s
sports tend to lose parity.” He cites women’s basketball with powerhouses such as Tennessee and UConn as an example of
a sport in which talent is diluted amongst most schools, and concentrated heavily in two or three big-name schools. Case
in point: the Huskies women’s basketball team currently has a 65-game winning streak, the longest in women’s history. The fact
that talent is not spread across many different schools, however, does not mean that these opportunities should be limited: the
same lack of parity isn’t seen in male sports today because they have had at least twice the amount of
time as women have had to develop their sports and play them at the highest levels. The dilemma exists then,
that while female sports now are not as strong and as beneficial overall to colleges, these developing programs must exist
in order for the powerhouses of tomorrow to emerge in female athletics.

So what can be done to fix the recent cutbacks in male sports, yet still allow for equal opportunities for
female athletes? Many critics want to change the proportionality clause of Title IX to something less severe, perhaps simply 50-50,
give or take 8%. Others who believe men have more interest in sports than women want to conduct interest surveys
on campuses and allocate funds according to the show of interest. Soccer player Leigh Anne Hoskins proposed that an equal
amount of money could be given to each player, male and female. Yet there still remains the problem of football
and the exorbitant amount of funding it drains from college athletic programs. Football player Jim Carney suggested that football be
taken out of the equality equation when considering percentages of athletes since there is no female sport comparable to it.
Regardless of which revision future lawmakers decide to use for improving Title IX, the important legacy and history that this
amendment has made possible for female athletes must be remembered. At the same time, the countless hours males in less
popular sports, such as wrestling or track, put into fulfilling their dreams must not be forgotten or overlooked as we
attempt to step closer to equity in sports. While not halting the development Title IX has made in the past
31 years, some middle ground must now be reached in order to continue the path of progress for both female
and male athletes.
