GZA’s latest Liquid Sword disappointing, uninspired
By Curtis SCHMADER
Arts & Living Editor

Legend of the Liquid Sword, the latest release from Wu-Tang Clan mainstay GZA (aka Genius), attempts to channel the zeitgeist of the group’s mid-’90s heyday. For those not in the know, the title is a reference to GZA’s hallowed 1995 release Liquid Swords, one of the definitive solo documents crafted by the Wu-Tang Clan in the wake of the group’s classic Enter the Wu-Tang (36 Chambers).

GZA’s latest Sword needs sharpening

Though the title of the album clearly establishes Liquid Swords as its primary reference point within the Wu-Tang mythos, Legend of the Liquid Sword does not quite live up to its predecessor. The production of Wu-Tang mastermind RZA on Liquid Swords created an aural landscape both gritty and ethereal; punctuated by creepy samples of kung-fu flicks and laden with eerily dissonant hooks, the album’s atmosphere was an ideal backdrop for the mean streets mythology GZA wove on songs like “Liquid Swords” and “4th Chamber.” Unfortunately, RZA only produces one song on Legend, and while the overall sound of the album evokes that of Liquid Swords, this time around the sonics are smoother and less absorbing. Overdramatic strings ruin the likes of “Auto Bio” and “Animal Planet,” and most of the album’s later tracks only stab half-heartedly at the distinctly urban sense of mystery that is RZA’s trademark.

Yet songs worthy of Liquid Swords do emerge, such as “Silent,” which features a verse from the incomparable Ghostface Killah, and “Knock, Knock,” with its spare beats and confrontational lyrics. As on so many Wu-Tang albums, the lyrics here function both as chronicles of inner-city existence and as co-creators of the album’s mood. For the most part, Legend’s lyrics are excellent, consisting of tales of violence and oblique personal history that well suit GZA’s deep, nasal, slightly deadpan delivery. The content only falters on “Animal Planet” and “Fame,” which consist of rapid-fire wordplay involving the names of animals and celebrities, respectively. Clever and amusing at first, the lyrics to these songs fall flat after repeated listening. (“Animal Planet” also features an awful cliché in its chorus: the comparison of city streets to a jungle.)

Yet these complaints about the lyrics and the production are relatively minor quibbles. Over half the album is top-flight Wu-Tang material, especially “Did Ya Say That,” “Stay in Line,” the RZA-produced “Rough Cut,” and the aforementioned “Silent” and “Knock, Knock.” Each of these tracks has a clear aural style that relates well to the rest of the album. “Did Ya Say That” sounds like funk in a casino, with GZA weighing in on the backstabbing world of the rap business; on “Stay in Line” he broods over a gloomy guitar sample and a female vocal hook; and the aptly titled “Rough Cut” is a compelling mess.

With Legend of the Liquid Sword, GZA demonstrates that he’s still among the master MCs of both the Wu-Tang Clan and rap generally. But if you want to hear this lyrical swordsman at his best, listen to the old style he uses on Liquid Swords.Tan’s animated series more often than the phrase “My vagina...” appears in The Vagina Monologues. Until this week’s episode, which explained the origin of catfish, my feelings had been lukewarm. But now I love Chinese cats more than women should love their vaginas.

A look at a potential ‘Matthews setlist
By Lee WHELESS
Special Contributor

After all the griping about how much we paid to have Dave Matthews perform here at Davidson has ended, we all should come to realize the weight of our spoils: Dave Matthews and Tim Reynolds are coming to Davidson to perform an acoustic concert! Some thoughts and predictions:

First, we are not likely to see an epic jam of the sort that has made the band’s live shows so popular. That is not to say that Dave and Tim won’t drag out a song or two into the 10-minute range, but without the chemistry of the band and the blend of all the instruments, a jam just wouldn’t be the same. As the show will be acoustic, we will be hearing songs based on strong guitars, while more studio sounds, such as nearly the entire Everyday album, will have to wait for all five members. Then again, Live at Luther College, Dave’s only acoustic album, does contain “What Would You Say?” a song normally equated with its sax solo. I guess we’ll have to see. But without further ado, the songs I think most likely will be played:

“Warehouse,” “Jimi Thing,” “One Sweet World,” “Satellite,” “Typical Situation”: all classics off the Under the Table and Dreaming album that lend themselves well to an acoustic show.

“#41,” “Two Step”: two fan favorites from Crash that most often find themselves being longer than the line at Commons at 12:30. I would go so far as to say that Dave will play either #41 or Two Step, but not both.

“Bartender,” “Big Eyed Fish,” “Grey Street”: originally off the bootleg Lillywhite Sessions, these three, written in the midst of a bout with depression and alcoholism, are darker than most DMB songs, exploring death, religion, and regret.

“Crush”: off the Before These Crowded Streets album, this song is reminiscent of the smoky jazz clubs of the 50s, driven by its bass line.

“Crash Into Me”: need I say more?

Some other possibles include “The Stone,” “Everyday,” “The Space Between,” “JTR,” “Raven,” “Don’t Drink the Water,” “Ants Marching,” “So Much to Say,” and “Granny.”

My one guarantee for the evening is that Dave will sit back for a song and let Tim Reynolds play something that will prove Michael Flatley’s feet are no match for Tim Reynolds’ fingers. We are also likely to hear one or two new songs, a spontaneous jam, or a story song, like “Little Thing” from LaLC. All in all, it should prove to be quite an event.

Antiwar Protests: Think Dick, Colin, Connie, and Donnie give a poop about our opinions? Save some platinum-priced gas and skip the drive to the nearest rally. If your young, passionate heart is really set on making a difference, try a hunger strike outside the next College Republicans meeting.

Dean Rusk Proposals: By now they know that projects on Shinto temples and Guadalajaran markets are covers for boozin’ it up international style. Next year just cut to the chase: “The Drinking Behavior of American Students in Reykjavik, Dakar, Toronto, etc.”

“Joe Millionaire”: And so, the journey comes to an end. Sarah really is a hooch; Zora really is a good girl. Couldn’t they have picked a breast-zealous SOB instead of the nicest guy ever? I’m just waiting for “Heidi and Mojo: the Series.”

Those big, hip belt things: Are they gone yet?

Horror films: With Soderberg’s Solaris and the upcoming Matrix sequel, science fiction leaves horror alone on the endangered genre list. Is Final Destination 2 all that’s left? To be fair, Signs scared me almost as much as Cats, but that film lacked the terrifying patience of great horror. Terrifyingly patient: The Birds, Rosemary's Baby, Carrie, The Exorcist, The Blair Witch Project.

John Mayer: Your body is a wonderblah blah blah blah. Almost as bad as Kid Rock.