THE Davidsonian SPORTS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2003 13

Men’s basketball preview 2003-04
Photos courtesy Sports Information

SCENES FROM AN UPSET: Chris Pearson’s dunk (left) sealed the North Carolina win in 2001. Terrell Ivory celebrates afterward (right).

A rivalry renewed: Wildcats aim for another UNC upset
By ELIZABETH REDPATH
Special Contributor

The highly improbable rivalry between North Carolina and Davidson traces back to the 1960s Lefty Driesell era. That’s when the Tar Heels erased the Wildcats’ national title dreams in two consecutive seasons, beating them by a combined six points in the Elite Eight rounds of the NCAA Tournament in 1968 and 1969.

It took 32 years for the teams to meet again, but Davidson made the wait worthwhile. The Wildcats shocked the college basketball world on Nov. 18, 2001 with a 58-54 victory over the tradition-rich Tar Heels in the Dean Smith Center. Matt Doherty was just beginning his second season in Chapel Hill, and the Davidson loss was one of the first dominos in the coach’s demise.

Of course, the sad script was probably written days before Doherty even arrived on campus, when Roy Williams, every Carolina fan’s “favorite son,” did the unspeakable by turning down the job at Carolina. “My mentors taught me that loyalty is most important; I couldn’t leave my players,” a teary-eyed Williams said at the time.

Three years later, something changed. Doherty (who began his coaching career as an assistant to McKillop at Davidson) failed to win enough games to appease the Tar Heel faithful, and he was forced to resign at the end of last season. The Carolina players were vocal in their displeasure and called for immediate changes. As the unraveling program began to search for solutions, Roy Williams found himself competing for the national championship with his Kansas Jayhawks.

The motto “Rock Chalk Jayhawk” resounded around the country as the savvy boys from Kansas marched through the tournament field. Carmelo Anthony and the Syracuse Orangemen would finally stop the Jayhawk charge in the championship game, leaving Williams one game short of the title that has eluded him for 15 years. At the end of the game, a reporter pressed Williams to talk about the job opening at UNC. On national television, the usually stoic Roy deadpanned, “I don’t give a s*** about North Carolina.”

Three days later, something changed. Williams (teary-eyed again) accepted North Carolina’s job offer, stunning his players and infuriating the basketball-crazed state of Kansas. But equally basketball-crazed North Carolina provided quite a haven. The entire town—no, the entire state—was jubilant. “Roy Returns Home” became the headline in every sports section. Now the Tar Heels expect a quick return to the glory days of the Smith era.

And that brings us to the present—Monday’s game at the Charlotte Coliseum. Davidson will be the first team to challenge North Carolina on national television (ESPN2, 7 p.m.), and it will be Williams’ first and only appearance this season in Charlotte, a city home to thousands of Tar Heels fans and alumni. The game could break Davidson’s all-time home attendance record of 11,666 set against Duke two seasons ago, also at the Coliseum. North Carolina fans will vastly outnumber Wildcats supporters, but Davidson students clad in red t-shirts will hope to make their presence known. The Rock Chalk Wildcat t-shirts that the SGA will distribute to more than 250 students are a poke at Roy Williams and will

---

Report: All-ACC point guard Raymond Felton is the catalyst of the UNC offense. Containing his lightning-quick dribble penetration will likely be the Wildcats’ biggest challenge on defense. Rashad McCants is the Tar Heels’ leading scorer, and he’s dangerous from anywhere on the court. Davidson's Nick Booker ’05 will likely be given the tough assignment of guarding McCants. Sean May is UNC's only low post scorer, but he can be dominant. He sat out most of last season with a foot injury. Most observers believe North Carolina could've easily reached the NCAAs with a healthy May. He'll be defended mostly by Wildcats forward Logan Kosmalski. Those match-ups will largely determine Davidson's chances for an upset. Avoiding foul trouble and breaking the press will be crucial.likely attract the attention of the ESPN2 cameramen. More important, however, is vocal support for Davidson. Be loud. Be proud. And regardless of the outcome, be loyal (tears are optional).

**Travel delays, turnovers doom Wildcats in opener**

By: Matt Garfield, Editor

The men’s basketball team’s season-opening trip to Texas Tech turned into a nightmare before the game even began. The team spent Monday night in the Houston airport after its flight to Lubbock was canceled by stormy weather, waking up around 4:40 a.m. Tuesday morning to complete the final leg of what became a 16-hour journey. Playing on little to no rest over the previous 30 hours, the Wildcats (0-1) were overmatched by a quicker Texas Tech team, losing 89-58 at United Spirit Arena in the first round of the Preseason NIT.

Andre Emmett and Jarrius Jackson each scored 17 points to lead Texas Tech. Matt McKillop was the only Wildcat in double figures with 18. The game was close for about 10 minutes. An Ian Johnson hook shot at the 10:30 mark cut the lead to 19-14, but that was as close as the Wildcats would get. Texas Tech took advantage of 26 Davidson turnovers to give head coach Bobby Knight his 810th career victory.

Logan Kosmalski, Kenny Grant, and Nick Booker, the three Wildcats who practiced with the team but didn’t play last year, showed signs of rust. Kosmalski, a 6-8 junior transfer from Baylor, picked up his first foul 10 seconds into the game, finished with five turnovers, and was unable to establish the low-post threat Davidson is expected to rely on this season, managing six points in 31 minutes. Grant, the starting point guard, committed only three turnovers and had five assists, but shot 1-for-6 from the field and couldn’t get the Wildcats’ offense into a rhythm. Booker, a defensive specialist not known for his jump shot, scored four points and appeared tentative in 16 minutes of play.

It’s hard to tell whether Tuesday’s loss to Texas Tech is any indication of what kind of season this will be. But the travel nightmares offer a pretty good reason not to judge the Wildcats just yet. Head coach Bob McKillop wasn’t making any excuses, telling ESPN commentators before the game that one night in an airport was nothing compared to the sacrifices made every day by U.S. soldiers serving in Iraq.

**Maintaining composure, the Cats added another goal in the 53rd minute, again by Hansell. Off a great lead pass, he went one on three against the Furman defense, and with one touch to the middle, drilled it to the right corner and past the outstretched hands of Furman’s keeper. The defense’s brilliant showing was just as important to the win as the offensive efforts. In the 56th minute, Furman blasted a shot from about 20 yards out at the top right corner of the net, but Creasman made an amazing save to deflect the ball out of bounds. The Wildcats did a great job of getting back on defense quickly after attacking, forcing Furman to attempt several long balls into the box, without much success. Davidson continued to attack even after Hansell’s second goal, and a deflected shot from Cass Baltz ’06 off a pass from Davis gave the Cats their third and final goal of the match.**

**Stopped point blank, thanks to Creasman’s diving save. Taking the offensive, Davidson picked up its play in the second half, making Charleston remain honest on defense. A shot attempt by Peoples sailed just over the net in the 66th minute, and minutes later freshman Mac Wilkie’s shot went just wide. Davidson had some controversial fouls called against them close to the box, resulting in two free kicks. In the first, the Cougars could not convert, and the kick went over the goal; however, with the second free kick late in the game, Creasman managed to stop the hard shot, but his deflection allowed a Charleston forward to finish the ball into the back of the net. Luckily for Davidson, the goal was called back because the forward was offsides. Charleston then stepped up their offense even more, and they subbed in a fourth forward with 15 minutes left. The Wildcats countered.**