THE DAVIDSONIAN. SPORTS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2003 _ 9

Bryant has right to fair treatment, trial

A few members of the media have recently been calling for Kobe Bryant to step away from basketball until his court case is over. They claim he is causing problems for his teammates and headaches for the league (in addition to scoring 67 points in his first three games). They say Bryant is selfish for playing. They say he belongs at home, concentrating on his court case while his teammates concentrate on their season. They say he has no place in the NBA right now.

Where did the idea of being innocent until proven guilty go? Bryant’s critics will be quick to point out that he shouldn’t get extra rights in court just because he is a star. Do these same people think he should lose his right to be on the court for that same reason? Demanding that Bryant step away from the game now convicts him of rape before the case ever goes before a judge. It suggests that he is guilty when, as of right now, he is innocent. He has every right to play, and the Lakers have every reason to play him.

Questions about Bryant will plague the Lakers, along with the rest of the league, whether he is with the team or at home or in a Colorado courthouse. The media questioned players about Kobe’s absence at the start of the preseason, and they would certainly do the same if he were to leave the team now. People will wonder if he should be with the Lakers whether he is with them or not. The only player Kobe is subjecting to extra attention is himself. His presence on the court will only help the team, especially if he can keep scoring 30 points per game, as he did last night.

Bryant is still one of the best players in the game, with the ability to play like one. No matter how well he does, however, he will never regain the popular, poster boy image he enjoyed for his first seven years in the NBA. Fans will boo Bryant regardless of the final verdict. By committing adultery, he soiled his image and the part of the NBA image that was so closely tied to him. Many athletes have done this in the past, including the legendary Lakers guard whose place Bryant was supposed to be taking, but they have been permitted to keep on playing. Bryant should be afforded this same right, and he should be given the chance to prove that he is not guilty of rape. Unless, and until, it is proven otherwise, he is innocent. He has the right to be treated that way — just like everyone else.

Lots went down in NYC as the city’s annual marathon took to the streets for the 34th time. The event attracted a bad boy, the handicapped, and British explorers. I'll start with the bad boy: Sean “P. Diddy” Combs completed the 26.2 miles in four hours, 14 minutes, and 54 seconds. More importantly, it was all about the Benjamins for the hip hop artist, who raised over two million dollars to split among two children’s advocate groups and the city’s public school system. After the race, Combs had this to say, “I’ve never experienced mental or physical pain like that.”

Apparently, these two British explorers enjoy that pain, for they completed seven marathons, in seven days, in six different continents. Ranulph Fiennes and Mike Stroud ended their marathon tour of the world at the NYC marathon after visiting Chile, the Falkland Islands, Sydney, Singapore, London, and Cairo. Fiennes, who is 58 years old, accomplished all this after suffering a heart attack only five months before.

And lastly on the marathon subject, some inspiration for all you injured athletes out there who dread crutching to and from Vail Commons. Zoe Koplovitz completed the NYC marathon in 29 hours and 45 minutes, on crutches. Koplovitz, who has diabetes and multiple sclerosis, has participated in 16 NYC marathons. She started this year’s race at 5:30 AM, four hours before everyone else. She stopped to stretch every hour, stopped to check her blood sugar every two hours, and stopped once to whack P. Diddy with her purple crutches.

Moving on to other adventures and solo accomplishments, Raphaela le Gouvello, a French windsurfer, made the first solo crossing of the Pacific Ocean. She traveled 4,455 miles in 90 days. Her only luxury was the 7.8-meter board, on which she cruised from Peru to Tahiti.

Being Ramadan (the Muslim holy month) at this time, Muslims are forbidden to eat or drink during daylight hours. This greatly influences the Fordson High School football team out of Michigan, whose 52 of 53 players are Muslim. Some players are breaking the rules on Thursday and Friday before their first playoff game, and making the days up later, an option that is completely legal. The players have been rising at 4 a.m. and getting in a hefty breakfast before a long, empty-stomach day — so hungry, that stealing a bagel may seem like a good idea.

University of Arizona basketball player Isaiah Fox gave a public apology for stealing $2.58 worth of food from aStudent snack bar. Fox was seen taking a bagel, two packs of cream cheese, and a candy bar, and he was then seen washing it all down at the nearby water fountain... Onto tennis, Austria’s number one tennis player, Stefan Koubek, is donating 1,000 euros to a charity for every racket that he smashes. Koubek, who smashed three rackets in his last match in qualifications for the Paris Masters, lost the match after the umpire gave the last set tie breaker to his opponent immediately following his third outburst. He has said that at least he wants some good to come out of his madness... And, Tanzania held its annual goat races this past week in Dar Es Salaam where 60 goats race each other in a series of heats and the losers get slaughtered. Goodnight.

Soccer, from page 12

The second half to Wake Forest’s Jeremiah White in their defensive end. White carried the ball to the top of the Davidson box, where he was tackled by defender John Latting '06. After making contact with the ball, the two players collided and Wake Forest was given the penalty shot that would inevitably decide the outcome of the match. Only 18 seconds into the half, White put away the penalty kick and gave Wake the 1-0 lead. “Wake came out in the second half and you could tell that they wanted immediate pressure from their attack,” said Spear. “We lost possession in the middle of the field and they took advantage, taking the ball straight to the goal.” Trying to save their lead, the Deacon defense held strong throughout the second half. Robbie Reynolds '07 had the best second-half scoring opportunity, as he received a ball in the box from Allen that backup goalkeeper Brad McEachern managed to steal away. “We tried to focus more on staying with their most dangerous players and tried to push the ball forward as much as possible,” said defender Nahum Navas '06. “It was really our defense as well as our offense that worked to keep them away from the goal.” “Not that we are ever satisfied with a loss, but I am very excited about our performance,” Spear commented. “Joey Bass ('05) had an excellent game — he was smart with the ball and did not lose on one-on-one match-ups. Match-ups outside the box were important in the very defensive match. The goalkeepers had only three combined saves, and the teams managed a mere 13 total shots. “We were really dedicated to winning this game for the entire 90 minutes,” Spear said. “We kept our confidence up and I felt like we matched up well with one of the top teams in the country. One slip and Wake capitalized like great teams do.” The Wildcats head into their final game of the season at Georgia Southern on Saturday at noon. Although the Cats have clinched the number one seed in the SoCon tournament, they want to win the regular season match-up against conference opponent Georgia Southern. “This weekend is very important for our momentum heading into the SoCon Tournament,” Spear said. “Georgia Southern poses an enormously tough task, and it will be a difficult game on the road.” Postseason play is the focus of Davidson soccer following the Georgia Southern game. While an at-large bid still looms, a good showing in the Southern Conference Tournament is the team’s best bet to make it to the national championship tournament.

Davidson 2 S. Carolina 1 (2 OT)

Halloween night brought quite a scare to South Carolina soccer fans as the Wildcats beat the Gamecocks in back-to-back games for the first time ever in the season series, which dates back to 1961. Forward Nick Hansell '04 scored the game-winning header in the second overtime in front of his hometown family and friends to give Davidson the 2-1 triumph. “This is a great win for us on the road,” said Hansell, who notched his team-leading fourth game winner of the year. “We've been able to have some success against South Carolina at home, but to get the victory here is big, and I think it serves as a wake-up call to other teams as we approach the playoff season.” “For Nick Hansell to score the winning goal in his hometown is certainly special for him and his family,” said head coach Matt Spear. The first half of the game went to South Carolina, as Ayo Akinsete scored the only goal of the opening half unassisted in the 38th minute. Davidson put the pressure on the Gamecocks throughout the second half, out-shooting them 12-3 and eventually finding the net in the closing minutes of regulation. Matt Allen '06 found the ball off a corner kick and put it past the USC keeper to even the score with less than four minutes left in the half. Both teams battled through a scoreless first overtime period, but Davidson capitalized on a scoring opportunity in the middle of the second overtime. Captain David Peoples '04 produced a cross on a Davidson counterattack that went to Hansell, who ran under the cross and headed the ball past the South Carolina keeper to give his team the lead. The Wildcats held control of the final four minutes and went on to win 2-1. “Any time you play a big-time team on the road, you want to be in a position to win the game late,” said Spear. “Coming out of the break, our second-half performance was very strong and confident.”