Che DB First Class U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC

sonian

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”

DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2003 VOLUME 95, NUMBER 12

RINGING IN THE SEASON

photo by Brian Borak

Residents of Hart senior apartment created a lights display that can be seen across campus. At right, “Mrs. Claus,” played
by Kate Morris ’04, takes a zip-line from the roof of Chambers during Monday night’s campus Christmas party. See article
page 2.

photo by Dorsett Clark

Three candidates for Business VP visit campus
Vagt to recommend his choice by Dec. 25

By Leslit Hempson
Staff Writer

Three finalists for the position of Vice President for Business and Finance have visited Davidson over the past 10 days
and met with students, faculty, and staff at open meetings arranged by the Office of Human Resources. Roughly 20 to
30 people attended each open meeting, but only a few of them were students.

According to Carl Sorensen, Director of Human Resources, the Vice President for Business and Finance is responsible for administering the
College’s endowment and “supervising or managing” Auxiliary Services, Physical Plant, Information Technology, and Business Services.

When asked about the open meetings, Sorensen replied, “We wanted to make sure that there was an opportunity for the
community to hear [the finalists] articulate some of their philosophies and talk about themselves in kind of a less formal
way and for community members to be able to ask questions that may be of concern to them, whether they
be students, or staff, or faculty.”

Although individuals present at the meetings play no official role in selecting the Vice President, Sorensen emphasized that all attendees
were “welcome” to share their impressions of the candidates with him.

Cannon’s doggie’s debut
Aa, PAGE 6

The Search Committee, which consists of Sorensen, President Vagt, Dean of Faculty Clark Ross, Vice President for Admissions and Financial
Aid Nancy Cable, and Chair of Biology Verna Case, has been attempting to fill the position since July. The Committee
hopes to make a recommendation to Vagt before Christmas, who in turn, will make a recommendation to the Board of
Trustees.

The three finalists are Dr. Karen Goldstein of the University of Puget Sound, Ellen McCarthy of Gettysburg College, and Elliott
Robinson of Elizabeth City State University.

While applauding the decision to hold open meetings, most students indicated that they were too busy to attend or did
not believe their presence would make a difference. John Fry ’06 said, “I think [the open meetings] are a good
idea and I think it’s a good idea they’re including us, but it’s not a priority because of our academic
and social demands.”

Martha Shott ’06 added, “I didn’t see the benefit or purpose in opting to go instead of doing my work.
If students had a vote in the decision, then that would have been a definite reason to go, but I
don’t think students knew enough about why they should care.”

Staff members formed the greatest presence at the meetings, perhaps because many of them will work under the new Vice
President. Bill Giduz, College News Director and an attendee of all three meetings, said, “I very much...Appreciate being able to
meet them before a decision is made. It creates a sense of community involvement.”

Turner, CoHo houses to gain more members under new Court plan

Largest eating house Rusk to gain only 13 percent of new ‘Court Selection’ pool

By SARAH-GRACE WESLEY
Staff Writer

Eating house representatives and Patterson Court officials reached a compromise that altered an initial plan to decrease the number of
girls who enter the Rusk, Connor, and Warner Hall eating houses through this year’s Court Selection process. “Court Selection” is
the new name for the redesigned Self-Selection process. President Bobby Vagt approved changes to the percentages but remained steadfast on
the new switching policy that is part of a larger plan to equalize the house memberships within the next two
years.

Rusk Eating House, the campus’s largest house, will now gain around 13 percent of the court-selection candidates along with Warner
and Connor. The smaller houses of Turner and CoHo will receive 32.8 percent and 27.5 percent respectively. Under the initial
plan, Rusk gained only 5.9 percent of the selection pool, inciting a good deal of controversy regarding how these numbers
will affect the future of the Court.

Though support for equalizing the house sizes was widespread, many members of the larger houses feared that fewer girls would
enter the process if they could not get into their preferred houses. Ellie Blackey ’04, president of Warner Hall Eating
House, said that the initial numbers generated some alarm. “We all understood that this was going to be a gradual
process. That is why we were so shocked.” She added that under the new plan, “fewer girls are going to
get their fourth choice.”

Patterson Court Advisor Joy Hamm said, “We developed a compromise which will allow Rusk to take a little larger percent
of the girls.”

See Court Selection, page 3

CoHo 28%
Turner 33%

Court Selection 2004
The projected distribution of candidates by eating house

Vail Commons will open doors to late-night studiers

By ALICIA JANOS
Staff Writer

As the semester draws to a close, Vail Commons will introduce minor changes to the daily menu in addition to
being open for extra hours, offering late-night snacks and a quiet atmosphere for students to study. Once a month, the
Dining Services Committee meets with members of the Commons staff to discuss possible changes to the menu and the location
of various food items. “It’s not exclusive at all,” said SGA Senator and Dining Services committee chair Paul Masi ’06,
who further described the meetings as having between five and eight attendees.

Dee Phillips, Director of Dining Services for two years, said that after meeting with the committee and receiving several e-mails
from students, root beer has been added to the soda line closest to the ice cream, and Corn Pops, Corn
Flakes, and Trix will soon be added into the rotation of cereals.

See Commons, page 4

SPORTS: Women’s hoops off to promising start
Exam-taking advice from a veteran
Why football is better than baseball
SPORTS, PAGE 9
