_ The Davidsonian

SPORTS

Volleyball comes through in the clutch at home tourney

By Wilson McCrory
Staff Writer

Heading into the National Invitation Tournament this past weekend at Davidson, the Wildcats were looking to avenge two hard-fought losses at the Jacksonville State Invitational the week before. In those two losses against Evansville and Jacksonville State, the Wildcats went five games in each, only to lose out in the decisive frame. As National Invitation All-Tournament member Tamara Gallen ’05 stated, “I think that with the two losses last week going five games in each, we were ready for some redemption. We really needed to prove to ourselves that we could win in the third, fourth, or even fifth game. We knew how it felt to lose a hard-fought game, and that was something that we did not want to relive.”

The first match of the tournament saw little need for resiliency on the Wildcats’ part, as the team dominated in a 3-0 (30-19, 30-22, 30-20) sweep of Gardner Webb. Latisha Chapman ’04, in what has become her typical performance, paced the Wildcat offense with nineteen kills on a .516 attack percentage. Overall, the team notched an impressive .286 percentage for the match.

The nightcap of the Friday doubleheader, however, saw a much stiffer test for the ’Cats. The team jumped out to an early 2-0 lead (30-17, 30-22) against Boise State and appeared to have the match well under control after the first intermission, but Boise State grabbed a game in the third frame with a late 10-2 run and used a two-point rally with the score tied 30-30 to take the fourth as well, evening the match at 2-2. The fifth and final game of the match was a close contest throughout, but the Wildcats appeared to have again secured the victory when the team took a 13-10 lead in the game to 15. The Broncos continued to fight back in taking the score to 13-12, but two successive kills by Chapman put the game away for Davidson and ended the match with a 30-17, 30-22, 23-30, 30-32, 15-13 victory. For the match, Jenny Dykstra ’07, Meredith Lorenz ’05, and Nicole Tonelli ’04 all finished with double-doubles, and Chapman registered 25 kills. The game was an important step for Davidson in many ways, not only to gain momentum for the weekend, but also as a measuring stick for the team’s progress this season. As Gallen noted after the match, “I really think that the Boise State game fired us up. We were going into the great defensive players [in Erin Balak ‘06], and everyone knew that they had to step up their game.”

In the aftermath of the emotional win on Friday night, the Wildcats returned to Belk Arena early Saturday morning for a match-up with High Point. The team looked worn in a first game loss, 30-22, but responded with a 30-21 victory in the second frame. Still, any momentum appeared lost in the third game when High Point took a commanding 18-9 lead. From there, Davidson staged a furious rally and knotted the score at 19-19. Finally, the ’Cats weathered two game points for High Point and eventually secured the final four points for a 31-29 victory. Davidson then won the fourth game 30-26 to register the 3-1 match victory and further validate its newfound ability to close out the tight contest.

In the final contest of the tournament, Davidson squared off against the 15-0 Virginia Cavaliers, one of only eight remaining undefeated teams in D-I volleyball. The Cavaliers showed that they are more than hype, however, as they easily dispatched the Wildcats 3-0 (30-20, 30-25, 30-15). It was a tough way to end the tournament, and it highlights a pattern of poor weekend finishes this year, but as Cowie states, “[UVA] is good enough that when you make mistakes, they make you pay. The thing that we all have to remember is that they are a program with twelve full scholarships versus Davidson with significantly less... I think we are heading in the right direction [in spite of the loss].”

Earn academic credit | Financial Aid. _ Academic Iphia Center § Education at Work

Get a taste of life in one of America’s greatest cities. Living, working — and studying in Phila game without one of our.

Delk, from page 12

A completely new label for parents has emerged. The soccer mom is seen driving frantically in some sort of minivan, shuttling at least six kids to their game. Once at the game, she is the mother standing on the sidelines during half-time and after the game passing out juice boxes and orange slices for sustenance. No other sport has created a parental label; ever heard of a basketball dad?

Finally, it seems like the soccer craze is here to stay. Contrary to popular opinion, soccer is not a new concept in America. In fact, soccer has been here longer than football. Yes, longer than the quintessential “American” sport — only one year, but the fact remains. The Oneida football club was the first American soccer league, formed in 1862. Twenty-two years later, the first professional league was created. Leagues all around America continued to sprout up, but the big development for men’s soccer was the formation of the North American Soccer League in 1967. The most successful American soccer league to date, the NASL attracted numerous big-name foreign players, such as Franz Beckenbauer and all-time great Pele. Unfortunately, NASL had to close operations in 1984 due to financial difficulties. The American Professional Soccer League, now known as the A-League, formed six years later but was relegated to Division-II status (soccer leagues are ranked much like colleges, in three different divisions with DI being the top). With the stipulation that a professional league would be formed beforeor shortly after, the World Cup was played in the US in 1994, and Major League Soccer formed two years later. Eight seasons later, the MLS remains a single-entity league with ten teams, and it has seen a gradual rise in attendance since 1996, with more than 61,000 fans attending the 2002 MLS Cup Final. As Davidson soccer captain Justin Porter says, “The MLS has given young American players a place to develop their skills through competition. Many players of previous generations had to go abroad to try and make their name, usually without much luck. Foreign countries used to look down their noses at American soccer players, but that is starting to change. The league has gained respect among the members of the world’s elite through international club competitions.” The international soccer world surely remembers MLS team DC United’s 1-0 upset of the English Professional League’s Tottenham Spurs last October. ESPN2 has even developed “Soccer Saturday” every week at 4 p.m. Not only is the MLS providing quality competition and professional opportunities for more American players, it is also extremely active in forming youth leagues, something no other professional soccer league here has done. While “soccer in the US is way behind football, baseball, basketball, hockey, and NASCAR in terms of fan support, both at events and watching telecasts,” as men’s head coach Matt Spear notes, men’s soccer in America has come a long way since the inaugural season of the MLS.

Unfortunately, women’s professional soccer has not been as successful in gaining a strong foothold in America. Following the exciting 1999 World Cup victory and the 2000 Olympics gold medal, the Women’s United Soccer Association was founded in America. Lower W-League teams already existed, but a professional women’s soccer league was finally formed. WUSA quickly became the premier women’s league in the world, attracting foreign and local players alike. In this year’s World Cup, 11 out of the 16 participating countries have players that played for one of the eight WUSA teams. Unfortunately, the popularity at the youth level did not translate into popularity at the professional level. Last week, only five days before the start of the 2003 women’s World Cup, the WUSA shut down operation $100 million in debt. Assistant women’s coach and W-League player Tiffany Tisdale remarked on the amazing opportunity the WUSA provided: “Having been to other countries to play, not only is there no other league as attractive for women to play in, but it had become a dream to reach for many aspiring young players. WUSA created an avenue for competitive and national level players from all over the world to train and compete with each other as well as to provide more opportunity to mature the progression of the women’s game.” The problem for WUSA was not a lack of female soccer players. As women’s captain Leigh Anne Hoskins stated, “The World Cup victory in 1999 did amazing things for women’s soccer in America. Being at the games was like experiencing a Britney Spears concert with thousands of screaming girls; the interest is clearly there.” So where are the fans? Where is the support for women’s soccer on a professional level? If you look at the WUSA in the broad scope of female professional sports, you can find the answer pretty easily. Male athletes are still the major moneymakers in American sports. While male athletes get respect from their level of play, female athletes might receive more attention for their sex appeal (think Ana Kournikova), rather than their abilities as an athlete. Yes, perceptions and opportunities for females as athletes have dramatically improved in even just the last ten years, but as senior soccer player Keith Nicholson notes, “Societal barriers still exist for female athletes. WUSA shutting down is not about a decline in soccer popularity, but rather a testament to the state of all female professional sports.” Since my experience in England, soccer has come a long way for both men and women in America. However, women’s soccer on a professional level, like other female sports, has even further to go in gaining acceptance as legitimate, exciting investments, both on the financial and fan-based sides. While I could do without the bloodthirsty English fans, I am still anxious for a future in which “Tuesday night soccer” doesn’t seem like a ridiculous idea.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2003

Women win Sports Editor

Coming off a relatively effortless win over Gardner-Webb the previous week, women’s soccer fell behind early against South Carolina. The Gamecocks scored twice in the first 20 minutes, putting the Wildcats in a hole. Davidson cut the deficit to one with less than ten minutes to go in the half when Kara Koehn ’06 netted her fifth goal of the season. The Gamecocks answered almost immediately, scoring their third goal of the half with less than 5 minutes to play, giving them an ominous 3-1 lead at halftime. South Carolina then iced the game with 9 minutes to play with their fourth and final goal.

Three days later, however, the Cats showed little distress from the previous loss. In what turned out to be a grudge match down to the final minutes, Davidson prevailed against the Catamounts of Western Carolina. Despite being out-shot 16-7, the impressive play of goalie Sarah Hobart ’05 (6 saves) allowed the Cats to stay in the game long enough to get some scoring chances. One such opportunity occurred late in the game when Anne Stevens ’07 hit a scorcher from about 25 yards out. The ball found the top corner of the net, and the Cats found themselves with a 1-0 lead and just fifteen minutes left to play. Not wanting their efforts to go to waste, Davidson continued to play hard, eventually dribbling out the clock and evening their overall record to 4-4 (1-0 in conference). The Cats return home this week for games against rival Duke on Friday at 7 p.m. and a conference game against College of Charleston on Sunday at 2 p.m.