Thanks, kids, it’s been fun.

This is it—the last Davidsonian of the year and possibly my final column as a Davidson student.

Next semester I’ll be in Australia, balancing my time between learning to surf and trying to pick up that cool accent.

I’ll be back next spring, but even then my words might never grace (litter?) the pages of this newspaper ever again.

Don’t get me wrong, I really enjoy having this column (although the title is lame and the picture is funny), but I also believe in such cheesy clichés as “Passing The Torch” and “Knowing When To Hang ’Em Up.”

So, next fall you’ll have a brand new sports editor, who will have a unique style and new opinions to share.

When I started writing at the beginning of the year I didn’t even think people read The Davidsonian.

It’s a great college newspaper, but people around here always seem so busy with various other activities, and setting aside time to peruse this paper didn’t seem like a top priority to most of you.

Obviously, I was wrong.

My teachers all saw my face in the paper and would regularly chew my ear off about the latest article.

Random people I would meet invariably said, “Oh yeah, you’re the sports guy.”

To be sure, I tried to coach little league this spring and the director (a former Davidson baseball player) knew exactly who I was from reading the paper.

He never let me coach, however, and I’m pretty sure it was because he disagreed with a lot of my articles.

What’s more, some of the staff at Vail Commons recognized me from the mug shot you see at the top of this page.

It was like being a small celebrity.

But with any kind of “fame” comes criticism, and there was plenty of that.

Those two talk-show hosts on Davidson radio (you know the ones) would chat about me practically every week.

Although they weren’t nice (I saw the emails, fellas, but never listened), it was flattering to receive all that attention.

To be perfectly honest, I didn’t know this was going to be the last issue until yesterday, and had already written an article explaining why Davidson should have a men’s lacrosse team.

Now that it’s all over, though, I’m sort of glad. Writing every single week is repetitive.

The goal was to be entertaining without being repetitive.

And so I wrote about everything from my spring break to whether fishing is a sport, and from Martha Burk to LeBron James.

Did you enjoy these?

I don’t know.

The only feedback I received was from my friends, some of whom enjoyed what I wrote, while the others just called me a dork.

Actually, that’s not right: the football coach called me a “jock-sniffer” after my Division-III article, but at least he read my article.

Every week I’d sit down at my computer and type the 900 or so words needed to fill this space.

And every week I’d ask myself, Why?

Now, as an editor I’m supposed to be paid 20 bucks for each issue that comes out, which would be incentive enough for most people.

But, I never found my social-security card, which is required for anyone that wants to be paid by the school, and so I’ve been doing this for free all year.

And while a career in journalism is appealing now, the fact is that I’m only 20 years old—who’s to say where this crazy world will ultimately lead me.

So why do I write?

I’m not entirely sure.

Sometimes I think what I have to say is important and you people should all be entitled to my brilliance (or lack thereof).

But mostly I write with the hopes that some of you out there will read my column and, for the three minutes or so it takes to get through this babble, enjoy yourselves.

After all, this is The Davidsonian we’re talking about here, not The Wall Street Journal or The Boston Globe.

To me, a college newspaper has two main responsibilities.

First, it should inform the students about what’s going on around campus. Second, it should entertain.

If I’ve done my part of this paper, I’d be a very happy man.

College kids want drama, and students at Davidson want something else to talk about besides work.

Just before I began writing this, I had a short conversation with this girl and the first thing she said was, “So, do you have a lot of work?”

Any dialogue that starts with those words is absolutely doomed (and trust me, this one was no different).

Do your work. Don’t talk about it. We all have something interesting to say, let’s not act like robots and talk about the same damn topic every time.

Especially when that topic is homework.

Students talking about work are like inmates talking about how much time they have left in the joint.

And so, with this column I hope to have given you something else to discuss with your friends, perfect strangers, or some girl you have a crush on.

Of course, no final article would be complete without thanking everyone else who helped me out these past nine months.

Special thanks go to Mike Giglio, my co-sports editor, and Matt Garfield, the editor-in-chief, for their tireless work on this section.

Also, all my writers, whose names you see each week in the bylines, deserve so much praise.

Without them, there would be no articles.

And lastly, I want to thank you, the reader—whoever you may be.

We’ve had our ups and downs this year, but I’ve had some fun and can only hope you did too.

It’s been real.

See you next spring.

Congratulations...
... you did it again!

The Library reports that in 2001-2002 you checked out almost 90,000 books.

And the number reported lost? 136!

That’s the lowest number in 43 years and it beat the previous year by 20%!

Thanks for your help in keeping alive the Honor System in the Library at Davidson!

---Leland Park, Library Director

and all the staff