12 The men’s and women’s cross country teams earned second-place finishes in this year’s Davidson Open. Kelly Fillnow took home first place, finishing 20 seconds ahead of her closest competitor.

Fillnow takes first place, men lose to ETSU by one point
By Witson McCrory
Staff Writer

This past weekend’s Davidson Open presented a rare opportunity on two fronts for the Wildcat cross-country squads: a home meet on the Davidson trails, and a chance to measure their progress against several Southern Conference foes. The results for both teams were predominantly positive, as the men and women finished second in their respective races, and each featured strong performances by relative newcomers.

For the men, it was a tight race throughout, as Davidson was edged by SoCon foe ETSU by a single point at 57-58. Despite the loss, coach Gary Andrew saw many positives in the team’s first 8K race of the season, commenting, “We wanted to win, but we’re happy with our overall team effort, which was night and day better than our first race. Our goal for this meet was to keep our heads in the race for the entire race, and we largely accomplished that. ETSU was ranked 4th in the conference in the preseason coaches poll, Furman [was ranked] 5th and Davidson [was] 6th. We thumped Furman and almost beat ETSU.”

Jonathan Baker ’06 was especially pleased to beat Furman, a squad that defeated the Wildcats handily at last year’s Southern Conference Championships. Still, he commented that it’s tough realizing “that if any one of us just beats one or two guys, then we could have won the meet, but that kind of meet will bring mental toughness.” Baker was the first Wildcat to cross the finish line with a time of 26:26, tying the Davidson course record held by Brent Ferrell ’00 and setting the record for the best sophomore performance in Wildcat history.

The early season has marked a renaissance for Baker, who says he “was in the top seven or so last year, but definitely not in the top.” Baker’s progress has been impressive, but not surprising, to Andrew, who noted that he “had a great summer of training, and he came into the preseason with more confidence than he did a year ago. His training since preseason has been going extremely well.”

Following Baker was a quartet of seniors that included Chris Schmader (9), Greg Scott (10), Ben Gaspar (16), and Dave Bunge (17). While Baker has finished first in the box-score for the ’Cats, it is the group of seniors that has constituted the heart of the team this season, by being “the vocal leaders of the team,” according to the record-setting sophomore. Andrew adds that the “seniors are motivated to do well and take our team to the next level.”

Aside from being a good measure of the team’s progress thus far, the weekend also serves as validation of the training regimen the Wildcats have undertaken this season, one which was touted in the preseason as the toughest the team has ever seen. Andrew even ventured to say that the race on Saturday “was the best effort by a Davidson team on our home course in my 18 years at Davidson, and it is only mid-September, with much more training and racing to go.”

There is concern that perhaps the team has reached a peak too early in the season, but as Baker states, “We're still at a really high volume of training, and we haven’t backed off at all. Our legs feel a lot stronger and can sustain a lot more miles per week, and we have done more quality workouts. Our summer work is paying off for us now, and hopefully we can continue to get faster.”

Meanwhile, the women also registered an impressive performance in their race, finishing second to the Furman Paladins by a 28-41 score after getting rained out in Gainesville, Florida last weekend. Kelly Fillnow ’05 continues to defy convention, making a seamless transition from star tennis player to the first-place runner on the team in her rookie year. After finishing tenth at the Mountaineer Open two weeks ago in her first collegiate race, Fillnow outdistanced her closest competitor by more than twenty seconds this weekend, finishing in a time of 19:05 for the 5K course. Following Fillnow were Allie Martin ’06 (3), Sally Stanhope ’05 (11), and Jenna Kruppa.’04 (15) and Laura Puckett ’04 (17), who rounded out Davidson’s scoring in the meet. Fillnow was happy with her second-ever performance, saying afterwards, “I learned so much from my first race, mainly how to pace myself instead of going all out in the first mile. Allie [Martin] and I worked together during a portion of the race, which really enabled us to pace and push each other.” Fillnow was also enthusiastic about the team’s showing, noting, “Despite losing to Furman, the team competed really well. The loss will make us hungrier to get them at conference. It was a great opportunity to see what we need to work on. Furman had all five runners coming in seconds after each other, so we know that we need to have some ’Cats step in between them.”

After strong performances this weekend, the Wildcats will look for continued progress in two weeks, when the two squads travel up to Cary, N.C., for the Great American Cross Country Invitational. The Great American is touted as the biggest race of the cross-country season, both for high school and college teams, and should prove to be another test for the ’Cats. Davidson will host another meet on its home course later in the year, when the 2003 Southern Conference Cross-Country Championships come to town on Nov. 1.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2003

Tom Cook looks to pass against San Diego.

Cook takes starting QB job, for now
By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

“Lucky 13.” The Wildcats hope that phrase comes true as #13 Tom Cook ’06 has earned the spot as Davidson football’s starting QB. Cook doesn’t have the same quickness as Damion White ’05, who he battled for the job, but his crisp passing against VMI and ability to perform effective bootlegs remind fans why he is the man. Following a six-for-seventeen, two-interception performance against Wingate, Cook came out of the gates with the starting job against VMI and drove the ball down the field on several occasions, going an impressive eighteen for thirty-five with 210 yards and an interception despite little help from a stagnant running game.

“We went [into the VMI game] saying he was the guy,” said head coach Mike Toop. “And he was. He’s the ‘Q’.” His fate was not so sweet against San Diego this past weekend, however, as he threw just eleven passes with five completions and an interception before mildly separating his shoulder near the half. He is questionable for this week’s game against Butler.

“We came out and were ready to play emotionally,” said Cook about the game. “We were feeling really good about it, and we just didn’t play well and do what we were capable of doing.” As for the dried-up red-zone offense exhibited in the VMI loss two weeks ago, Cook takes all the blame, saying, “That’s just me not making throws and not putting the ball where it needs to be. We’ve been in position to put up more points than we have in all three games. It’s just a matter of making plays and getting it going a little bit—getting the offense sparked.”

Despite lacking the lightning quickness that White possesses—something White showcased well during short stints against VMI—Cook has been able to keep the defense honest with a multitude of bootlegs and sharp play-action passes. Sacks, though, have been a problem. With six against Wingate in one half, five against VMI, and four in the first half.

San Diego 54
Davidson 7
Story, page 1

Player of the Week
Kelly Fillnow
Women’s Cross Country
Hometown: Hilton Head, S.C.
Major: History

In only the second collegiate race of her career, Fillnow was victorious, dominating the rest of the field and her closest opponent by 20 seconds. Her win helped secure a second-place team finish for the Wildcats on their home turf.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
The field hockey team finally broke a scoreless tie against St. Louis when senior Christina Auer found the back of the net in the 49th minute. Auer's score, her first of the season, provided the winning 1-0 margin in Davidson’s first victory of the year. Goalie Sarah Nolan kept the Billikens scoreless, making nine saves.

“We had some good scoring chances early on, but just weren't able to connect with the net until Christina's goal," said coach Lisa.