THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, November 5, 2003

Hart Parking Lot Damage to Property
Unknown person(s) willfully dented a blue Toyota four-door sedan. Damage is estimated at $300.

10/30 Tomlinson Bike Rack Larceny of Bike
Unknown person(s) removed an unlocked, unregistered blue MGX bike from the Tomlinson bike rack.

Sergeant Jim Lyon said it was a “fairly uneventful” week, with only two reported campus crimes.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety.

Survey, from page 1

dent approved of the U.S. efforts, we then asked three questions capturing increasing levels of U.S. casualties in Iraq, to
see if and how quickly or slowly their approval would move toward disapproval. If a respondent disapproved of the U.S.
efforts in the first Iraq question, we then asked three questions capturing increasingly positive developments in Iraq, to see if
and how quickly or slowly their disapproval would move toward approval.”

Sellers wrote via e-mail that his results indicated, “Many students have opinions about the U.S. efforts in Iraq, but their
opinions could easily change if those efforts fare better or take a turn for the worse.”

Parker Rhea ’06 expressed little surprise upon hearing these results.

He said, “I’d say that [the results] pretty well reflect not just Davidson College but the U.S. in general. I
think the population in general supports President Bush’s policies but wants some verification. They’ll take President Bush on faith up
to a certain point, but then just the daily reports of casualties and international criticism begin to wear on their
support and faith.”

Rhea noted, however, that by placing three questions concerning casualties in a row, the survey might have unintentionally influenced students’
responses.

While calling the Young Democrats e-mail a “potential problem,” Sellers stressed that after reviewing the results, he was convinced that
the e-mail did not bias the survey.

Sellers said, “If the Young Democrats e-mail had had an effect, you would have expected that the Democrats would make
up a bigger proportion of the population after the e-mail went out. I went through and looked at the data,
and there’s no real difference. The percentage of Democrats is roughly the same when respondents answered before the e-mail went
out and after the e-mail went out.”

Approximately 41 percent of students who responded before the Young Democrats e-mail was sent called themselves either strong or weak
Democrats. A slightly smaller percentage of respondents, 38 percent, called themselves strong or weak Democrats after the e-mail was sent.

While calling the e-mail “a mistake,” Lindsay attributed it in part to a longstanding rivalry between the Young Democrats and
College Republicans.

“The e-mail is an unfortunate side effect of the fact that [the Young Democrats and College Republicans] like to go
at each other, I think, sometimes and that both sides are a little too quick to kind of offer, you
know, a little bit of a ‘screw-you’ to each other when it’s possible,” said Lindsay.

While emphasizing the importance of the survey as a teaching tool for his class, Sellers also mentioned its importance as
a source of information for the entire student body.

“There are a lot of benefits of the survey for the class, but I think it’s just interesting to learn
about some of the Davidson students more generally,” said Sellers.

Photo by Dorsett Clark

Cornwell presented her collection of Jack the Ripper artifacts, and her book (above).

Cornwell, from page 1

Yet Cornwell’s determination seemed to mirror the cross necklace sparkling upon her black suit. Amid this dark endeavor, she says
the investigation “is a sense of moral purpose for me. Murder is wrong - it’s a crime against the universe.
It’s never too late for justice.”

“Justice isn’t for the dead, it’s for us,” she argues. When we deny justice, “We change as humans. Our values
become tarnished, or worse, malignant.”

Her writings stem largely from an effort to make the abstraction of violence real for her audience, saying “We should
never trivialize violent death.”

Because of the project’s magnitude, Cornwell said “there was no one else who could conduct this investigation” to the extent
that she could.

She believes that resources translate into responsibility, and that despite the enormous amount of time, money and energy she invested
in this study, “justice is never too expensive.”

Cornwell credits her Davidson education with reinforcing values of “intellectual purity. At Davidson, it’s not just being a good student,
but being a good person” that matters, she said.

Cornwell received a scholarship to Davidson, and since 1992 has funded a creative writing scholarship here. She said the college
“instilled a great need to give back, to return this in kind.” Cornwell cites scholarships, foundations, animal rescue and “behind
the scenes” projects as ways in which she does just that.

Professor Randy Nelson remembers Cornwell, then Patsy Daniels, as a “very focused, very goal-oriented” student who was also, “personable and
witty.”

Dr. Tony Abbott, Cornwell’s professor and advisor, praises her motivation to write a novel as her senior thesis for the
first time in the English department’s history.

As a both comic and compelling speaker, Cornwell granted Monday night’s audience a glimpse of the same qualities her professors
admired in her: charm, wit and determination.

Cornwell is now researching the death of Princess Diana and looking for the production of a Kay Scarpetta movie within
a year.

Calling Davidson students “fellow crusaders,” she left them with a message: “Don’t be afraid to try something that matters to
you. If you have a love and a passion [...] listen to that inner voice. If you do it and
keep doing it, you will prevail.”
