‘Old School’ passes (barely)

“Old School,” a hilarious comedy of fraternities and debauchery, doesn’t add anything to the comedy genre. However, it uses the
actors, stock characters, and plot techniques common to the genre to create a consistently funny film with a few forgivable
faults.

Mitch Martin (Luke Wilson), a young businessman, returns home early from a convention to find his girlfriend (Juliet Lewis) in
a rather uncompromising position. Heartbroken, Mitch moves into his own place, the former off-campus home of a college professor. To
celebrate, his best friends Beanie (Vince Vaughn) and Frank “The Tank” (Will Ferrell) put together the “Mitch Martin Freedom Festival,”
a party of legendary proportions, headlined by Snoop Dogg in a humorous cameo. After this night of craziness, a college
dean (Jeremy Piven) informs Mitch that, as property of the college, his home is being repossessed for the school’s purposes.
Determined to find a way for Mitch to stay, Beanie initiates a plan to turn the house into a fraternity,
thus fulfilling the requirement set by the Dean that the building be used for college purposes.

The film relies heavily on the most famous and successful college comedy of all time, “Animal House.” Beanie, Frank, and
a reluctant Mitch gather a pledge class of misfits; some don’t even go to the school. “Old School” would have
failed without proper casting. Fortunately, the lead performances of Ferrell, Vaughn, Wilson, and Piven make the film somewhat successful. While
much of the film’s humor is in the hands of the actors, the filmmakers use their actors’ personas to develop
the characters for “Old School.” For example, Beanie can be best described as Trent, Vaughn’s smooth-talking player character from “Swingers.”
Piven, best known as Droz, the leading frat boy of “PCU,” has grown up into the very authority that he
rebelled against earlier. This evolution of characters from classic comedies adds another level of humor: the wild characters of the
past become part of the system that new characters fight.

Unfortunately, “Old School” does not maintain a perfect score. The audience sees way too much (literally) of Will Ferrell, and
the movie feels a little long. Some jokes fail, and the ending tries unsuccessfully to offer a clean conclusion to
the poorly developed love story between Mitch and his high school crush, Nicole (Ellen Pompeo). Overall, these flaws are forgivable
as the film offers a relatively consistent laugh from start to finish.

Director: Todd Phillips
Written by: Phillips, Scot Armstrong
Starring: Luke Wilson, Vince Vaughn, Will Ferrell, Ellen Pompeo
Running time: 91 minutes
Rating: 2.5 out of 4

“Scrubs” is funny.
By Curtis Schmader, Arts & Living Editor

Often visual art seems to exist on its own private cloud, floating above reality for our detached contemplation. Next month
art will get off of its cloud and get dirty for a good cause. The Davidson Photography Club is sponsoring
a fundraiser on March 18 and 19 in which Davidson students will donate their own original artwork to be sold
to benefit Habitat for Humanity. The art will be up for sale in the Union Atrium between 11 a.m. and
3 p.m. on the dates in question.

“Donations can include photographs, sketches, paintings (even finger paintings), ceramics, knitting, sculpture, prints, or collages,” said photoClub board member Sally
Stanhope ’05 said, “The artwork will be sold at low prices so that students have the opportunity to buy original
artwork.” The upcoming art sale marks a rare opportunity for Davidson’s artists to put their work to the test of
being available for consumption by the student body and the town. Since all proceeds go to Habitat and prices should
be reasonable, many students should gain the satisfaction of seeing their work change hands. Stanhope expressed excitement about the prospect
of Davidson students decorating their rooms with the products of their classmates’ creativity. “Art and daily life will merge within
the Davidson community and no dorm room should lack an artistic masterpiece,” she said. “Of course, for the sale to
work, we need every student to come out and buy, buy, buy.” For further information regarding donating artwork to next
month’s art sale, email sastanhope or errosintoski.

Irreverently sardonic: The Clash, 50 Cent, Michael Moore, SUVs

Cool movies. yahoo.com

By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

Christopher Walken: Maybe not the greatest of actors, but certainly the best of celebrities. He’s been on SNL almost 50
times, and he’s still the show’s best guest. The Continental is the definition of a sexy beast.

Grammy Awards: For nothing other than “London Calling.” If it were possible to outdo the Clash, then Costello, Springsteen, Little
Steven, Dave Grohl, and that guy from No Doubt would have done it. Quite possibly the coolest thing ever.

“In Da Club”: Heterosexist materialism at its shameless best. Let’s forget about all the scars and bullet holes. That’s just
bragging. “Now shawty said she feeling my style, she feeling my flow/Her girlfriend wanna get bi and they ready to
go.” But only with a name like 50 Cent.

Going home for spring break: Annoyed that you’re at home watching “Scrubs” with your parents while your friends funnel tequila
and bungee jump at the same time? Don’t be. You get free food and a clean bed; they get sunburn,
hangovers, the runs, and HPV. Be proud you’re home and be glad pictures of you in a wet T-shirt aren’t
on the internet.

And Not Cool

Florida cops: Did you hear the one about the Miami cop who ran over two French tourists? Apparently, Officer George
Varon drove his killer SUV over two French women while they sunbathed on a crowded beach. Much to Chirac’s pleasure,
one of the women died.

The Union Café’s “Price Study”: So what you’re saying is, you’re not ripping us off after all? Ok, yeah, but
you’re still charging $1.10 for each nugget-sized chicken tender. Wendy’s dishes out five nuggets for 99 cents. Beat that, hot
shot.

“Bowling for Columbine”: Zero stars. Michael Moore’s documentary is a frustratingly ambitious film. Its ideas and beliefs are truths, but
Moore employs shameful methods to express and support his wide-ranging convictions. He does not treat his subjects and ideas with
the scholarly respect they deserve. Rather, Moore uses sensationalized, incoherent journalism to condemn sensationalized, incoherent journalism, such as tabloid news
programs (Haupt and Newlin 2003). Fox Charlotte News at 10, anyone? “Bowling for Columbine” is only slightly more respectable than
its prey. It’s a shame that Moore will win an Oscar.

Writing for Arts & Living is fun! We get to watch movies, eat at new restaurants, and make fun of
jean shorts! Email deloh or chschmader for more info.
