THE DAVIDSONIAN - News

Construction moves to phase three
Students could take exams in new wing next week if inspection passes.
By SARAH ROBINSON
Staff Writer

With another semester of construction, Davidson students can start to see the end of the tunnel for the ongoing construction
on the main part of campus. Now, if county inspectors are able to pass the north wing, students may even
be able to take exams in the newly renovated part of Chambers next week.

Phase two of the renovation of Chambers concerned the north wing. Next semester, the construction will move to phase three,
the renovation of the south wing. Phase three will cause complications for the administration, most of whom will be moved
to temporary locations around campus. This phase will last through the rest of the school year and summer and will
be completed by the time the students return.

Phase four will start at the end of the spring semester, overlapping with phase three. Phase four renovates the center
of Chambers, including Perkins Auditorium, and the courtyard between Little Library and the east wing. For students familiar with Perkins,
they can look forward to the opening of the windows that line the top of the dome. Contractors are trying
to design a new ceiling plan that will allow the dome to be seen within the room without damaging the
acoustics.

As the last part of construction, the courtyard will be redesigned to open the space, which includes the removal of
planters and the addition of grassy areas, and complement the new back entrance of Chambers. David Holthouser, Director of the
Physical Plant, sees the construction as a positive reflection of the Davidson population. “Faculty, staff, and students have been very
patient,” he said.

For administrative offices, Academic Affairs will be publishing an At-a-Glance guide, instructing everyone where faculty and administrative offices are moving.
For students needing to see the Registrar, Academic Affairs and the Dean of Students Office will be housed in the
north basement of Chambers to allow students easy access to those offices.

After Chambers, major construction will halt for a few years, as the focus of the capital campaign will move to
raising money for professorships, Financial Aid, and other non-construction areas. Medium-sized construction projects will continue on Patterson Court, with the
goal of all houses being completed in the next two years. Also, athletic facilities will continue to be renovated. After
approximately five years, construction plans turn towards the renovation of Cunningham Fine Arts, Little Library, Martin Science Building, and Vail
Commons.

On the new renovations, Holthouser said, “The college has made a tremendous commitment to resources for faculty, staff, and students,
and to keeping with the character of campus.”

Court Selection, from page 1
who sign up for self-select.” She said, “It will slightly decrease the number that Connor and Warner receive,” but leave
numbers for Turner and CoHo the same. Yet, after many houses complained about the unfair effects of the new percentages,
several houses made concessions to equalize the numbers. President of Rusk Courtney Ward ’04 said, “Both Connor and Warner Hall
were kind enough to give Rusk some of their girls, meaning that now our three houses will each receive about
the same number of freshmen in January. And I believe that number is around 26 or 27.”

The number of switches for each house will remain as outlined in the original plan, giving Rusk, Connor, and Warner
Hall five spots each. Turner and CoHo will be allowed 27 and 36 switches into their houses, respectively. Two years
ago, complaints about the vastly unequal house memberships led to the formation of a task force committee that formulated the
plan to limit switches between houses and toDecrease the number of girls gaining membership to larger houses. Even with the
new percentages, some are still concerned about the limited number of switches. President of Turner Eating House Brynn Welch ’05
asserted the need for limited switches not only to equalize house membership but also on a practical basis, since the
houses need to know approximate member counts. She said, “When the summer comes, you need to be able to plan
the semester.” Blackey said, “In the best-case scenario, the new switching policy won’t be a problem, and people will be
happy in their houses.”

By Baik McGraw
Staff Writer

The Student Government deferred making a decision about whether a Union Board referendum to consolidate the two vice-presidents of the
Union Board passed. At its meeting last Thursday, the SGA decided to take the matter to its Senate Court, due
to confusing wording in the campus-wide referendum. The referendum, asking if students approved of the changes, was sent out electronically
before Thanksgiving. According to Sims Hill ’06, 533 students voted, of which 308 approved of the changes while 99 did
not. A third choice now presents a problem. Under SGA bylaws, 2/3 of votes are needed to pass a referendum.
The confusion was over the third choice, which stated, “I choose to cast no vote,” which 126 students selected. Including
the third choice in the vote total would cause the referendum to fail. If it does not count as a
vote, the referendum would pass. SGA President Charles Washington ’04 suggested taking the matter to the Senate Court, which interprets
SGA bylaws, to see if “I choose to cast no vote” counts in the vote total. “We have a Senate
Court, and I don’t think we’ve used it until now,” Washington said.

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2003

Union Board referendum results prove inconclusive, efforts to promote school spirit continue

SGA looks to keep up school spirit

In keeping with its goal of improving school spirit, the SGA decided to charter a bus to the Davidson’s men’s
basketball game against UNC-Charlotte on December 12. The bus holds 57 students, who would pay a small fee for the
bus and also receive a ticket to the game. There was some concern over costs if the bus did not
fill up, since the game is on reading day. Some senators also suggested the SGA could focus on improving school
spirit in areas other than men’s basketball. Christina Evans ’06 suggested SGA should “try to think of a project that
would benefit the entire community.” The majority of senators voted to keep the tradition of chartering the bus for the
UNCC game.

In other business, Washington announced that the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) decided that it would not yet change the double
majors system. The EPC “decided they really didn’t want to get rid of [double majors], but improve the current system,”
Washington said. Some of the suggestions by the EPC were to have a distinct form to fill out for students
who choose two majors, better advice on double-majoring, and limiting the second major to 11 courses. The EPC meets again
in January, during which the double-majors issue will be discussed again.

AIRPORT SHUTTLE

Getting out of town for the Holidays? Don't give the cabman your Christmas money. Cabs to the Charlotte Airport average
$50-$60. You can’t beat our prices to get you to the airport.

Davidson to Charlotte/Douglas Airport $36
Davidson to Greensboro Airport $94
15% gratuity for the driver will be added to each trip.

Book early to reserve your spot. Oh, yeah, we will be glad to pick you up on your return. Call
704-894-0796 for reservations.

Academic Credit in Philadelphia

Center Education at Work

Get a taste of life in one of America’s greatest cities. Earn academic credit living, working, and studying in Philadelphia!
Financial Aid applies and credits transfer!
