SPORTS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2003

Wildcat sports: Why should we care?

The Davidson Wildcats. This generic name predictably does little to incite excitement among fans or dread among opponents of our humble athletic program. Davidson teams, most of which compete in relative obscurity compared to the top-tier division one programs in the nation, do not warrant the attention of college sports enthusiasts. Our football field is plain. Our gym is average. The ’Cat Pack are the Baker Buzzkills to Duke’s Cameron Crazies. This being said, why bother going to games? Why stress over wins and losses? Why care?

I found myself headed to the library after an intense basketball game last year. Wayne Bernard ’03 had just turned in one of the best performances of his career and won the game for us. I walked in angry that I had to study after such a great win. The first thing I saw was Bernard sitting alone at a table, working diligently. As sad as that might be to think about, it perfectly describes my affection for Davidson sports: he beat me to the library.

In this period of bad attitudes and bad people in sports, Davidson athletes give me someone and something to root for. College sports used to be the place to turn to when you couldn’t stomach all the garbage that goes on in the pros. With admission and academic scandals, embarrassing athlete graduation rates, and countless other media nightmares, division one sports are starting to seem like the pros with less talent. I can’t wait until they start paying the athletes.

Davidson is one place where the idea of students, not amateur big shots with inflated egos and GPAs, competing for the love of competition still exists. All of our athletes deserve to be here. If I were to inquire, I would probably find that most had better academic credentials for admission than I did. And once they get here, they deserve to stay here—as Wayne Bernard could probably tell you. They have practices year-round. They have meetings, workouts, and coaches breathing down their necks. When there’s a paper due in political science, they have that too. There are no easy classes for athletes, although they often seem to know the best ones to take. There are no special housing arrangements, no special privileges—unless you consider sitting at the football table in Commons to be one. Instead of a pampered ride through a college experience that no one here could ever begin to imagine, they get to enjoy all the benefits of a full academic and full athletic schedule.

And let’s not forget to root for the underdog. From bad movies like Rudy to great ones like Major League, it’s nearly impossible not to cheer for the long shot. While we might be dominant at the D-III level, I take pride in the fact that our school, small in scholarships and in numbers, is willing to go head-to-head with any school in the nation. It’s all worth it for that day when we beat UNC or take Ohio State to the buzzer.

With the burden of extra work at a school where it doesn’t seem such a thing could exist, with athletic fame and fortune nowhere on the horizon, our athletes compete for pride. They compete for each other and for their school and for the fans. That’s enough to make me care, and it should be enough.For anyone else who thinks the sports world is in dire need of some Base-Ket-Ball, overlook the plain uniforms, lame mascot, and high school bands, and cheer for a program that is far from generic.

Around the Sports World
Jeff Davis, Staff Columnist

This column will serve to inform you about what’s going on in the sports world outside of the 28035 (our zip code). For you avid SportsCenter followers who don’t eat a Commons meal without Dan Patrick’s voice to accompany you, I will try to add in a few items you wouldn’t find on ESPN. Here it goes:

The United States Men’s Basketball team conquered this half of the globe in winning the Tournament of the Americas in Puerto Rico. The team clinched the gold with a 106-73 victory over Argentina. The US won all ten of their games by an average margin of 30.9 points. Canada and Steve Nash’s hope of making the Olympics were nixed in their 79-66 loss to Puerto Rico in the bronze medal game.

More losses for Canadians: the Florida Marlins swept the Montreal Expos to gain the lead in the NL wild card race over the Philadelphia Phillies, who lost to the Boston Red Sox 13-9. The Sox used a six-run ninth inning thanks in part to Trot Nixon’s grand slam. Last weekend in the Red Sox-Yankees series, Manny Ramirez sat out the three games with what was said to be Pharyngitis. On Sunday, he was seen at a local sports bar hanging out with an unidentified member of the Yankees. The Yankees lead the Sox in the AL East by 5.5 games.

The California Supreme Court ruled 6-1 that coaches can be legally liable for athletes getting injured under their jurisdiction. The court said that athletes assume a great deal of risk when playing sports, so coaches can only be legally liable for injuries if the conduct is reckless or if they actually wanted the athlete to get hurt. Apparently, Giants skipper Felipe Alou had read the court reports, got nervous of a lawsuit, and sent Bonds to the hospital. Hours after being released from the hospital on Monday, Barry Bonds hit a two-run, bases-loaded double in the top of the ninth.

Last year’s captain of Michigan State’s football team died at age 23. Brian Ottney, who resided in Long Beach, CA, had a seizure before being pronounced dead. Another tragedy, the Malaysian Open Squash Championship for men in Kuala Lumpur was cancelled. Rumor is the cancellation was due to the absence of the Malaysian prime minister.

For you sports fans...

DAVIS’ PICKS OF THE WEEK
Outside the Den: Washington Redskins vs. New York Jets

To get your picks in print, e-mail Sports Editor Mike Migiglio at migiglio@davidson.edu.