Photos by Kenny McConnaughey

Jeff Gordon and Mark Martin (right), ‘Macho’ Camacho and ‘Sugar’ Ray

Davis records popular history with carving and painting

By ALI FitzGERALD
Staff Writer

For those not into “Annoyance Art” (see tantric Tajikistan paint-flinging, nude ice sculpting for the obese, and the Union takeover), go see Benjamin “Old Folks” Davis at the VAC. Maybe it’s my archaic artistic sensibility, but I crave some craftsmanship in my art. Benny boy’s work is unique because he was a self-taught artist who took up wood carving as a means of therapeutic release.

Davis’ legs were amputated due to a circulatory ailment in the early 1990s. Upon the advice of therapists at Duke, he began to carve and paint into wood panels, using popular images from the Charlotte Observer as his subject matter. As if a compelling biographical background isn’t reason enough, there are plenty of other incentives for a liberal arts gal-on-the-go to see the exhibit. For history and poli-sci majors, Davis’ work encapsulates a tumultuous decade and effectively becomes a visual record of our polemic obsession with pop culture. Davis paints everyone from Oprah to Mother Theresa (is there a difference?) while dutifully recording the accomplishments of African Americans and civil rights progress in Charlotte. My favorite is probably Chelsea Clinton, who doesn’t photograph well—even in wood.

Completing over 300 visual expressions, Davis’ work is not only a testament to “art brut” (no, not the cologne), but also to the cathartic power of the creative process. The pamphlet created by the William H. Van Every Gallery claims, “His prolific output was fueled by a need to ‘keep his mind occupied.’” Perhaps this example of the healing capacity inherent in imaginative expression will lure the curious “ids” of the psychology department out of their carrels, which, curiously, resemble mazes.

From an aesthetic standpoint, his lack of training seems astonishing as his compositions seem to be conceived in the mind of a well-seasoned artist. They are both visually convincing and intellectually gripping in their alliance with a readily recognized narrative. But Davis does not adhere strictly to the constructs of the newspaper page, instead choosing to play with placement and scale, thus evoking a more visceral response in the viewer.

On THE CAT WALK

What did you think of Julian Bond’s speech?

LIVING

By Derek Lou
Arts & Living Editor

“Elephant” observes a school on a day whose events mirror The Day at Columbine High School. During the first two-thirds of the film, the camera shows no violence. We watch students in gym class, in chemistry class, at a GSA meeting, in the cafeteria, in the bathroom and so on. What appears on screen, for the most part, is an average day at an average public school.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2003

Columbine as fiction

A plethora of examples demonstrates its exaggerated take on reality. The most obvious one involves three girls whom Van Sant ridicules mercilessly. Munching on dressing-less salads, two of the girls complain that the third one spends too much time with her boyfriend. To make up for her neglect, the third one agrees to go shopping. But before the group heads to the mall, the girls stop in the bathroom and, as if connected psychically, throw up their salads.

Alicia Miles and John Robinson play two of 12 main roles.High school. The film also documents the two gun-teenagers—“gunmen” is a misnomer—in their homes as they skip class, play shoot-em-up video games and classical piano, fire mail-order machine guns, and watch a documentary on Hitler. Writer-director Gus Van Sant and director of photography Harris Savides present these events simplistically. The camera cuts from one shot to another only when necessary. Literally, it follows the actors from scene to scene, interlocking their activities and displaying their relationships. “Elephant” is sparse storytelling. While there’s arguably no narrative in the film, there’s certainly no explanation for the events of the last 20 minutes. It’s like “L’Avventura” with guns.

Critics have praised “Elephant” for its simple approach, arguing that it creates a realistic film that (a) avoids false interpretations in favor of no interpretations at all and (b) paints a comprehensive and accurate picture of American high school from the eyes of its varied attendees. These critics cite the lack of narration and the casting of inexperienced actors to support their arguments. I’d agree with (a) and strongly disagree with (b). Van Sant understands that an event like the one at Columbine has no reasons, only consequences. Assigning blame is pointless.

And while I disagree with a reading of “Elephant” as a portrait of American high school, I find no fault with its inaccurate depiction because it’s not trying to be accurate. “Elephant” is stylized, exaggerated realism in which the kids who aren’t ugly are ridiculously good-looking, and the one who isn’t good-looking is ridiculously ugly. Beyond its casting, the film contains a perfect unison. “Elephant”’s last act is chilling in its explicitness. At one of their homes, the gun-teenagers map out their plan, dress in camo, and one tells the other, “Remember, just have fun.” They drive to school, and in a moment of great irony, the boys stand in a corridor with their guns. They cannot begin shooting because, well, no one is in the hallway. Determined, they march to the library, and there, like at Columbine, the killing begins.

I suspect that once “Elephant” receives a wider release (currently, it is playing only in New York and Los Angeles) it will become a major and popular independent feature. The masses know its director’s other work, namely “Good Will Hunting,” and its inspiration, the shootings at Columbine. Already, it has won the best film and best director prizes at Cannes, the first film to win both of the festival’s top awards. And it deserved that honor. “Elephant” is simple and original and more important than any film I’ve seen this year.

Elephant
Directed by: Gus Van Sant
Written by: Van Sant
Starring: Alex Frost, Eric Deulen, John Robinson, Elias McConnell
Running time: 81 minutes

Open SUNDRIES RESTAURANT - BAR
Lake Norman - Harborside
Voted “Best Waterfront Restaurant on Lake Norman”

(11 a.m, 7 days a week, Rain or Shine - Full Menu All Day!)
Every Monday: 1/2 Price Appetizers (dine-in only)
Every Tuesday: 1/2 Price Wings (Buffalo, Barbecue, Barbeque) (dine-in only)
Every Wednesday: Burger Madness - All Burgers: $4.95 (dine-in only)
Exit 28 - Go W. on Catawba Ave
EVERY THURSDAY 10 UNTIL CLOSING
16665 Harborside Dr.
(704) 896-9013
Follow to end at Bayside Dr.