Is torture of terrorists justified? Yes, it is the only way to save thousands of innocent lives

By Matt BANDYK
Staff Columnist

The capture of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, al Qaeda leader and organizer of the Sept. 11 attacks, has renewed the debate over the use of torture. Mohammed possesses a great deal of information that could hopefully thwart future al Qaeda operations. But how can he be coerced into giving up this information? In the post 9/11 world, insufficient intelligence can cost thousands of lives. Because of this dire situation, I contend that the U.S. government cannot rule out torture as an option when interrogating known terrorists.

Activists opposed to torture argue that it is wrong on-face, simply because of its brutal nature. But war is even more brutal, and it is nearly impossible to argue that war should never be waged. Governments accept war as a necessary evil because sometimes the cost of not acting with force can result in more violence than waging war on an aggressor. We are in a similar situation with torture.

The following hypothetical scenario illustrates the danger of rejecting all torture: A “dirty bomb” has been planted in an unknown location in a major urban area. If detonated it would result in thousands of deaths. The CIA has apprehended a terrorist who knows the location of the bomb, but the only way to get him to talk is to torture him. The deaths of thousands of innocent people are far worse impacts than the pain experienced by one criminal. Clearly, torture should be used in some cases.

There are limits to how far torture should go. Brutal forms of torture, such as beating and physical mutilation, should not be used because they encourage victims to give false information in order to stop the extreme pain. Fortunately, the only torture that the United States engages in, so-called “stress and duress” torture, which involves sleep deprivation and psychological manipulation, has been proven to work in some cases. For example, stress and duress torture was recently used on terrorist Abu Zubaydah, who then identified Omar al-Faruq as Al Qaeda’s lead agent in Southeast Asia.

Finally, those who argue that America will lose international credibility by using torture are making a moot point. Our government has used “stress and duress” techniques for decades, and has handed over suspects to countries that engage in much worse forms of torture, such as the Philippines. The question is not how much credibility will the United States lose by using torture, but how much will it gain by renouncing it? The answer is not very much, considering that US policy in Iraq is already harming its relations with many countries and that countless other nations themselves torture. It is certainly not enough of a gain to outweigh the risk of another Sept. 11.

No, torture violates human rights and international laws

By CLINTON RICKARDS
Guest Columnist

Since the arrest of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, U.S. officials have been flirting with the idea of using torture to draw out information regarding al Qaeda and future terrorist attacks. Despite the CIA claiming that they are applying “all appropriate pressure,” Mohammed has not been cooperating with his interrogators. Thus, the United States has turned to the possibility of torture.

America cannot continue its hypocritical stance regarding international human rights law by falling into the cycle of torture and violence that we claim to oppose. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights declares that no person shall be subject to “cruel, inhuman, or degrading punishment.” Any means of torture, by its very definition, violates this clause. Some may argue that our methods of interrogation are somehow “better” than the methods of other countries. After all, we are not beating our prisoners or murdering their families. However, as Human Rights Watch states, sleep deprivation is one of the worst things that can be inflicted on another human being. I am not saying I am against long interrogation sessions or interrogation during the night, but I am against the intentional and callous dehumanization process of torture.

Some may argue that there are situations in which torture is needed, but they fail to take into account the possibility for failure. For example, in the example cited by Mr. Bandyk, what will happen if our “stress and duress” fail to produce a location, or even worse, a false location? Should we move onto beatings, rape, and violence against the family? Also, how long shall sleep deprivation continue? Three nights? Five nights? A week? In this case, interrogation is warranted, yes, but not torture. Even “humane” forms of punishment can cause psychological and physical damage. The rhetoric of “Stress and Duress” is merely a euphemism for cold-blooded dehumanization.

The United States, during the War on Terror and in its attacks on the Iraqi regime, frequently attacked these groups for violating human rights agreements and international law. But in a case in which human rights and international law are to be clearly violated, the United States is strangely silent. This latent hypocrisy, which has fueled criticism of the United States from other countries, has no place in the human rights sphere. While I stand in favor of interrogation, it must be remembered that prisoners give up their freedom, not their rights. In dealing with their prisoners, the United States must continue to uphold human rights, and this means not torturing Khalid Shaikh Mohammed.

Hey, Martha Burk, feminists should pick their battles

By LINDY BALDWIN
Staff Columnist

Congratulations, Augusta National. For your steadfast devotion to the right of a private organization to exclude whomever they please, you’ve won the support of the Ku Klux Klan! For anyone who’s not familiar with the story, Augusta National is an all-male Georgia golf club. For the past few months, Martha Burk, chairwoman of the National Council of Women’s Organizations, has been battling with Hootie Johnson, the Augusta chairman, overwhether or not Augusta should allow a female member. These days it seems that everyone wants a piece of the controversy — the Klan, Jesse Jackson, the Suburban Women’s Club of Augusta, NOW, Davidsonian newspaper columnists, etc. My own take on the situation is somewhat unusual, given that I’ve always considered myself a feminist. I realize that after writing this I may be forced to turn in my official Feminist Club Card, but it will be worth it to see the following sentence in print: Please, Martha Burk, shut up about Augusta and find a cause that’s actually important! Yes, Augusta National’s policy is antiquated, sexist, outdated, stupid, and discriminatory. Yes, they should change it. But whether or not they change it won’t affect my life, or the lives of 99.99 percent of the women on this planet. As far as I’m concerned, Hootie Johnson and his pals are free to hole up in their good ol’ boys 19th-century clubhouse. I really couldn’t care less. So please, Ms. Burk, consider finding something relevant to do with your time. It’s not like there is a lack of women’s issues to be addressed. Teenage girls are getting pregnant because 60-year-old men in Congress don’t think they should have information about condoms. Our ally Saudi Arabia is second only to the Taliban in their repression of women, and we turn a blind eye. Young women who want to serve their country by flying planes end up raped and brutalized by cadets at the Air Force Academy. Or, if sports are your main concern, Title IX is under direct attack. Any change to that crucial piece of legislation could have consequences for every single female athlete in the country. Female tennis stars are being marketed for their sexuality rather than their playing ability, and still make less at Wimbledon and the French Open than the men. And the LPGA is so undervalued that Annika Sorenstam has to enter a men’s tour event just to persuade golf writers to stop staring at Tiger Woods long enough to learn how to spell her name. These issues are real and progress in any one of these areas would have a positive effect on many lives. Contrast that with Augusta National. If they admit a token woman, who benefits? At best, the admission of a female member to Augusta National would be a completely symbolic victory, with few (actually, zero) meaningful implications for the rest of the world’s women. It is frustrating to see all of this attention focused on the petty question of whether or not Hootie and his buddies want to play with girls. If they still think we have cooties, that’s their loss, not ours.

Davidson/Baghdad videoconference opened meaningful dialogue
By RICARDO AMPUDIA
Staff Columnist

Last week’s student-to-student videoconference with the University of Baghdad fulfilled everything that could have been expected from it. It was an opportunity for students and members of the community to relate to their counterparts in a country that is presumably so foreign to this one, thus allowing us to verify for ourselves that the members of both communities can establish a dialogue. However, the event could have been more conclusive. Instead of having the students that favor the use of force against Iraq stubbornly discuss with the students in Baghdad an issue that cannot be resolved across such a great distance, the participants could have focused on finding a common ground from which to depart into valuable agreements. It would have been of greater worth, for instance, to see both groups of students deduce that a war would be the mutually harmful result of a divergence between the actions of the leaders of both countries and the interests of their corresponding populations. Still, I did not expect the debate to become anything more than what it was: a dialogue between what were largely the privileged sectors of both societies. This obviously resulted mainly in what many of us witnessed: on the one hand, some Davidson students claimed the greatness of America, and on the other some students from Baghdad claimed the greatness of Iraq. To these students, it was not their admirable country, but the other, that was causing the problem. With many of the students coming from the privileged sectors of both societies, it is not surprising that they would fail to see anything substantially wrong with their nations, for neither side has lived through what most of their countries’ populations have. How else could one possibly consider a brutal regime under the façade of a presidency that has lasted over 20 years to be a symbol of freedom? How else could one consider Iraqi citizens to enjoy great liberties if its per capita income is around $3,000 per year? Or, how else could one possibly claim America enjoys great freedoms when its media is inseparable from market interests and its political system is largely dependent on the contributions of the private sector? When an average family works more than 70 hours per week yet one in every four Americans lives below the poverty line, and the wealthiest one percent of Americans own 40 percent of this country’s assets while the poorest 80 percent owns less than five percent of these? How else could one find such a society to be so great even if these horrifying figures follow increasingly negative trends? This is not to say that some members of both sides deliberately ignore the ailments of their own societies. Rather, it is to say that a dialogue between two groups constituted largely by individuals who benefit from the economic and political status quo of two countries that are on the verge of conflict is practically doomed to be inconclusive, for their interests are mutually conflicting and none of the two sides would rationally be willing to yield.