THE DAVIDSONIAN

North Carolina Dance Theater will perform tomorrow.

By SARAH ROBINSON
Arts & Living Editor

Dance has the power to give people the ability to express themselves without words. The dancer, through a simple movement
in their body, can show terror or excitement, happiness or sadness. At clubs and parties, students let go of themselves,
dancing without worries. For others, dancing provides a career; something to which they have devoted their life. Professional dancers observe
our culture and produce dances that reflect society (which is not always shown in a good light). Combining the heritage
passed down to North Carolinian dancers, North Carolina Dance Theater (NCDT) presents their program, “Dance! Balanchine to Bluegrass.” Tomorrow’s show
promises a variety of dances that will express the choreographer’s interpretation of everyday life.

‘Brave,’ choreographed by Nicolo Fonte, explores the question of what bravery means to people. The dance starts with the phrase
“I spoke,” which was one of the answers Fonte received when he asked his dancers, “What was the bravest thing
you have ever done.” He began choreographing “Brave” because of his interest in exploring the different parts of the human
psyche. The dance exposes the vulnerability that people feel, while portraying the dancers’ perception of bravery in an abstract way.
The audience may interpret the meaning of bravery.

Set to the familiar music of John Phillip Sousa, George Balanchine’s ‘Stars & Stripes Pas de Deux’ displays the patriotic
sentiments Balanchine admired in Sousa’s marches. A Russian immigrant, Balanchine became enchanted with Sousa’s marches and American culture, therefore he
choreographed the piece, which is part of a larger ballet. The duet features bravura, a showcase of technical strengths of
the dancers.

With tongue-in-cheek, Heather Maloy’s ‘Couch Potatoes’ examines the growing importance of television in American culture. The dancers begin on a
couch, enacting fantasies while dressed in bathrobes. Society shows itself, as we see that the obsession with television causes people
to forget the real world and live through the lives of those on sitcoms.

Jean-Pierre Bonnefoux’s ‘Shindig’ rounds out the dances in a light-hearted ballet that is set to the music of a local
band, the Greasy Beans. The piece bears the influence of country dancing and clogging, intermixing ballet and bluegrass. Relationships are
explored, while a party goes on, and people can see the making of a fun, spontaneous night that showcases the
heritage of North Carolina dance.

As a part of their mission, NCDT acts as a community outreach for dance. Locally, they have been teaching master
classes at Davidson College since last spring, and the Davidson Dance Ensemble is co-sponsoring tomorrow’s production. NCDT has helped dancers
improve their technique and choreographing abilities. Later this semester, DDE will perform. After the show, NCDT will present a free
open-forum. “Dance! Balanchine to Bluegrass” will be presented in Duke Family Performance Hall on Thursday, March 25 at 7:30 pm.
Tickets are $15 for general admission, $10 for students, faculty, and staff. For information, call (704)-894-2135.

The Davidson College Department of Music Presents Liederabend
A Student Vocal Recital with composers ranging from Varlat to Granados to Schumann
Sunday, March 28, 2004 at 8:00 p.m.
Tyler-Tallman Recital Hall
Sloan Music Center
Admission is Free

Arts & LIVING
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24, 2004

Studies from behind the circulation desk

By JEFF MCKINNEY
Special Contributor

There are a tearful many students who, like me, are known as the library workers. After spending many hours behind
the library’s circulation desk, I’ve theorized that there are several breeds of library attendees, and they don’t use the library
for studying.

First, if you are the species like my roommate, you probably go to the library for three main reasons: (1)
to stare at the back of your carrel, (2) occasionally glance at a book, and most importantly, (3) pick up
girls.

Second, if you resemble the more determined breed, you go when you absolutely have to buckle down and start that
due-tomorrow seven-pager.

Third in the group is the light-hearted studier who works on the hourly cycle: 30 minutes studying, 15 minutes checking
e-mail, and 15 minutes socializing.

Fourth, we have the most evolved species that apparently only frequents the library to talk, and to talk loudly. The
fact of the matter is...that the library is not just for studying. Let’s discuss the average library user: Bob. Bob
walks into the library and, like most evenings, he marches straight to the computer to check his e-mail (which he
probably did 5 minutes ago in his room, but that is completely irrelevant). And of course, he will see one
of his friends working at a nearby computer. So fittingly, they talk. Fifteen minutes and two friends later, Bob says,
“Sorry man, but I have to go study.” This, of course, is a lie. Bob truly has to sit in
his carrel and stare vacantly for 10 minutes. Then, Bob proceeds to read for maybe an hour. This, of course,
includes 15 to 17 minutes (depending on how much is written on the walls of the selected carrel) of not
actually studying. But that is still 45 more minutes than the average Bob at State U. Then Bob checks his
e-mail again. Thus, the cycle continues.

There is also Ralph who only comes to the library to talk. He spends most of his time hanging around
the computers. On occasion, you might see Ralph checking out a book, but do not be fooled, this is merely
for show. It is quite beautiful to watch Bobs and the Ralphs unite. This is called group work. Normally, each
group has three Ralphs (the talkers) and one Bob (the worker/vacant starer). Ralph’s strength is not staying on task. Nor
is it whispering. So, when there are three of them, the problem can only grow. This is when Bob comes
in handy. No staring now buddy; Bob is the workhorse for the group. The Ralphs get to reap the benefit.
Ahhh, group work.

Back to my point: the true social potential of the library (which Ralph has overshot and Bob is on the
brink of discovering). As I overheard someone say, “the library is where all the cool people are.” And as my
roommate tells me, “there’s always hot girls there studying.” For the most part, there is always quite a bit of
people there, hot or not. On any given school night, I’d say at least one-third of the student body frequents
the library. And I’d say that one-third spends about half of their time legitimately accomplishing their work. The library has
become a place not just to study, but also, to talk to friends.

Honestly though, compared to other locations for socializing, the library is not that bad of an option. When comparing E.H.
Little to the Court, weekend revelers can’t exactly dance every night - especially not with a stomach full of Commons.
Plus, parties can have only so many themes. Most important, how many times have you jumped up the next morning
and thought, “Man, I really shouldn’t have brought that book back to my room.” Compared to the Union, I’ve got
two words of advice: carpet selection. Plus, the library has the perfect cover. You can call home and tell mom
and dad that you’ve been in the library for ‘hours.’ Honestly, you can’t really do work in the Union, but
you can socialize in the library. And for those of you seeking visual pleasure, the library has a much larger
and more intellectual selection of movies than the Union does and they’re free. We’ve got Playboy on microfiche (but sometimes
the slide is a little sticky). Or you can always have a ball perusing the 750’s ‘Painting and Paintings.’

As a library employee, the way I look at it is that there are endless reasons for you and your
friends to socialize in the library. The more you are in there talking, the less you are in there checking
out books. That, for me, translates into less desk-work and much less shelving. Ahhh, work study. I can just sit
at my desk and listen to your completely interesting conversations. Or I can check my e-mail and occasionally do some
homework. Or I can write newspaper articles. Thanks to you, I have options - so talk, talk away.

-TERRY’S TAXI
Serving Iredell and Mecklenburg County
24 Hour Service
Daytime: (704) 663-9411, (704) 663-9413
Evenings: (704) 663-9415, (704) 663-9812
If you need transportation to and from the airport, bus station, or other areas call Terry’s Taxi
Over 50 years of service

Snapshots at Davidson
