The D

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Widsonian

@ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2004

First Class
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC

VOLUME 96, NUMBER 7

Trustees propose allowing non-Christians on Board

Committee recommends changes to college
Statement of Purpose, Trustee Bylaws

By David Crow
Editor-in-Chief

On October 8, the Ad Hoc Committee of the Board of Trustees unanimously recommended to the entire Board changes to both the College’s Statement of Purpose and the Trustee Bylaws. The recommended changes would modify the Trustee religion requirement, allowing up to 20 percent of the board to be composed of non-Christian members.

Currently, the Trustee Bylaws state “all persons elected as Trustees shall be active members of a Christian church.”

Under the proposed changes, the new Bylaws would read, “Historically, persons elected as Trustees have been active members of a Christian church. In order to preserve the religious heritage of Davidson College and in openness to and respect for the world’s various religious traditions; at all times at least eighty percent of the elected voting members of the Board of Trustees shall be active members of a Christian church.”

The process of the change

This recommendation marks a departure from the Board’s previous position that they had no intention of changing the religion requirement for Trustees.

The last time the Christian requirement was formally brought up with the Trustees was in 1996 when they discussed the possibility of removing or modifying the Christian requirement for those members of the Board elected by the Alumni Association. However, after deliberations the Board voted to maintain the requirement for Trustees.

The issue of the requirements did not officially come up again with the Trustees until last year, when the Board decided the topic of their annual retreat would explore “What it means to be a church-related college in the Reformed Tradition.”

“Last February we decided that the issue was current enough and we had a Board that had never engaged this particular topic so we decided to choose to examine this topic,” said President Vagt.

While the focus of the retreat was not specifically to discuss the Christian requirement, the retreat did allow the Trustees to explore the meaning of the Reformed Tradition in greater detail.

“The combination of presentations and extended small-group discussion at the retreat was the first opportunity in a long time for the Board as a whole to engage this important concept,” said Vagt.

Other Trustees also found the retreat helpful.

Rev. John Rogers ’63, a member of the Ad Hoc Committee said, “The conversation that came out of that retreat was very helpful. I had some questions about it [the requirement]”

see Trustees, page 5

The participants in the “Urban Plunge” Alternative Break upon their return to Davidson.

» Newest fad:
the online

facebook
A&L, PAGE 6

John McCartney (standing) led the Trustees in their issues session meeting, in which the Board discussed the proposed changes to the Christian requirement.

Staph infections contained

ADAM MARTIN & CAREY BAXTER
News Editor & Staff Writer

The Residence Life Office, Health Services, Building Services and Athletic staffs have responded in full force to contain and prevent the spread of a particular strain of bacteria called Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus (MRSA).

This fall, MRSA infected about six football players. Twelve students reported and were treated for the bacterial infection in the fall of 2003.

Despite a seemingly low number of affected students, administrators are taking every precaution.

“It’s obviously contagious, and you can die from it,” said Leslie Marsicano, Director of Residence Life (RLO) and Associate Dean of Students.

“We don’t want people to panic, but we want people to be wise.”

Most cases of MRSA can be “resolved within about 10 days” with certain antibiotics, according to Dr. Craig White. In rare cases, though, MRSA enters the bloodstream and could be fatal. White is one of two part-time Student Health physicians at Davidson.

RLO issued a health alert through email two weeks ago, warning students about the bacteria. Staphylococcus

see MRSA, page 4

‘Urban Plunge’ into Washington D.C.

By Liz Barry
Staff Writer

After several hours of restless sleep on a concrete sidewalk lining an inner-city strip mall, Adam Gerstenmier ’05 woke up before sunrise in search of food.

“We had to be up by 6 a.m. so that we would not be forced away by security guards and so that we could get in line at a soup kitchen for breakfast,” said Gerstenmier, recounting his fall break experience.

Gerstenmier and eight other Davidson students, carrying only the clothes on their backs, blankets for warmth, cardboard signs and emergency identification information, roamed the streets of Washington, DC over fall break, experiencing homelessness firsthand.

The 48-hour “Urban Plunge,” a program run through the National Coalition for the Homeless [NCH], was one of four Alternative Break Trips sponsored by Davidson’s community service organization, United Community Action [UCA].

The D.C. trip was unique in that the participants did not directly perform community service.

“It was a program to simulate the homelessness experience in Washington, DC to help raise our awareness of what homeless people go through,” Gerstenmier said. “Our increased understanding may help us treat these people better later on in life and better advocate for their needs.”

According to NCH’s “Urban Plunge Manual,” the definition of an Urban Plunge is an experience in which “economically-privileged people dress down, empty their wallets, and spend time on the streets as ‘poor’ people.”

To mentally prepare for the Urban Plunge, the group met four times to learn about the demands they would be facing on the street. They discussed their fears, reservations, hesitations and built a community within the group.

Physical preparation proved es-

see Plunge, page 4
SEE PAGE 2

What do all these polls really mean?

PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 11

Are picky NEL rules going too far?
SPORTS, PAGE 12