Arts & LIVING
é: Davidsonians | In the arts, Ashley Brown

Three paintings, which are hanging in the studio, as Brown prepares for her senior art show “Who We Are Instead.”

By BRIAN CREECH
Special Contributor

The first piece of her art that senior Studio Art major Ashley Brown can remember feeling a full connection to
was a piece of her sculpture. It consists of a female mannequin, bent over backwards, straightened arms and cut-off legs
forming a solid base. Different patches of color cover the mannequin, while pieces of found material such as mirror shards
adorn the sculpture. The sculpture, entitled “As You Are,” most readily reflects the themes of body and spirituality that Brown
has been pursuing of late through studies in the human (mainly female) form.

‘Find Out Her Name’ contemplates a girl’s reflection.

On first impression, Ashley Brown’s paintings of the female form can inspire a wealth of comfortable confusion in the viewer.
According to Brown, her work is a series of sketches that act as meditations on the female form which at
the same time attempt to expose the true identity of the subject.

“Find Out Her Name” features a blue-tinted girl staring at her own reflection, crying. The girl’s poignant and penetrating stare
fills the right side of the canvas while the back of her head obscures the lower quarter of her reflected
face. A mirror’s frame fills the rest of the canvas.

In this grandiose display of intimate motion, the most affecting element of the painting is a single tear that falls
from the corner of the girl’s face. The tear seems a piece of the subject, melting out of the corner
of her eye. All of the anguish and intimacy captured in the figure’s face follows the path of this single
melting tear and gathers in the end of a bulbous drop.

Christianity is important to Brown as an artist and figures prominently in her visual art; for her, the painting process
is analogous to prayer. “In order to express my understanding of things, I paint,” says the artist, “When I paint,
I see God or people or truth more clearly. There aren’t words to get in the way.”

Brown’s first venture into painting occurred in her third year of high school when the native of Nashville, Tennessee decided
to briefly put her guitar and poetry books away and try to express what she saw in the world through
a different medium. Brown turned her attic into a studio space, asked for paints and brushes for Christmas, and began.
These days she spends between fourteen and twenty hours a week inside her VAC studio.

Brown paints mostly women because, she says, “their curves are much more fun.” The artist has a notable respect for
the form of her subjects, and her paintings of women intend not to objectify and instead attempt to make a
connection with the spirit that goes beyond the physical level.

Brown is currently working on her senior show, which will be entitled “Who We Are Instead.” In it, she hopes
to reflect identity and personality through studies of the body. Almost all of her paintings focus on individuals and can
be described as ethereal depictions of the human form.

Brown’s figures follow the line of human anatomy—with a strict adherence to bone and muscle structure—mixing shade, tone, color, and
pose in an effort to express the individuality of her subjects.

Aside from painting, Brown writes songs. From her freshman year at Davidson on, she could be found at various local
venues such as the Union’s 900 Room and Main Street’s Summit Coffee ably performing many of her own compositions. Brown
can also often be found performing at Thursday night worship services in the Lingle Chapel, a popular weekly scene of
sorts for some of Davidson’s Christian students.

After Davidson, Brown would like to find something that combines her passions both for art and for her spirituality; she
mentions teaching art through mission work in Latin America as one possible avenue.

THE STUDENT COUNSELING CENTER WELCOMES NEW & RETURNING STUDENTS. WE’RE HERE TO HELP....... AND IT WON’T COST A CENT! CALL
(704) 894-2451
