THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2004 15

Eli Trefzger ’07 energizes swim team in and out of water

By ASHLEIGH FINN
Staff Writer

From Dec. 29 to Jan. 5, when most students are at home enjoying the holidays, Davidson swimmers practice twice a
day for a total of five hours of intense swimming, lifting, and running. Whereas the rest of the Davidsonians bring
in the New Year with friends, family, and festive parties, the swimmers are already asleep in their hotel beds, with
the company of ice packs and icy hot. By the time midnight approaches, the exhausted swimmers are usually in their
fifth REM cycle. There was one swimmer, however, who managed to stay awake last year until midnight, undeniably the most
energetic and enthusiastic member of the team: Eli Trefzger ’07, a political science major hailing from Hickory, North Carolina.

Trefzger began her freshman season with an incredible start, becoming one of the star athletes not only within the swim
team but also within Davidson athletics as a whole en route to breaking three individual school records. During the 2004
Colonial Athletic Association Championships, Trefzger broke the record for the 500 free in 5:04.57, the 1000 free in 10:27.89, and
the 1650 free in 17:17.81. Trefzger also shows strength in the 200 fly and is continuously striving to break more
records and to achieve faster times.

Men’s team captain Brad Poole ’06 says of Trefzger, “Everyone outside the swimming community knows how much Eli adds to
our team in the water, with all of her record-breaking performances, but not everyone knows about what she adds to
our team outside of the meets. She always has a positive attitude. She adds levity to a sport that sometimes
gets a little serious in practice. Eli puts her heart and soul into whatever she does, whether it is swimming,
ROTC, or just life in general.”

Trefzger is unusual in that she not only dedicates her time and effort to the swim team but to ROTC
as well. If she is not waking up at 5:30 a.m. for morning practice, then she is rolling out of
bed at the crack of dawn for ROTC training. This past fall season, Trefzger has been plagued by intense shoulder
injuries, injuries that have impeded the rare free time that she has due to shoulder rehab and training.

Wrestling continues to get better in early season action

By AUSTIN MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

The Davidson wrestling team has competed in two tournaments in the past two weeks. The first was the Body Bar
Invitational on Nov. 20, hosted by Cornell University in Ithaca, NY. Davidson had several great matches in the tournament, highlighted
by Patrick Coman ’06 and Matt Pendle ’08, who both finished sixth. Coman wrestled at 125 and Pendle was at
157, and both won their first two matches to advance to the quarterfinals before suffering their first losses of the
tournament. Benjamin Graham ’08 also had a strong tournament, finishing with a 2-2 record. As a team, the Wildcats finished
ninth with 25.5 points.

The wrestling team’s next tournament was the Irwin-Carolina Open this past Saturday at Chapel Hill. This tournament yielded some very
impressive results for several Wildcat wrestlers. The team is enthusiastic about their early success, as Coman said, “The team has
shown a lot of progress over the past couple tournaments and the freshmen especially are looking good in making the
adjustment from high school to college wrestling.”

Pendle again scored highest on the team, as he finished third overall in his weight class. Pendle won his first
three matches to win his division, but was 1-1 in the final round-robin and finished third due to a tie-break.
Also showing strength in the tournament were freshmen Trebor Clavette ’08 and Benjamin Graham ’08. Clavette won his first two
matches at 165, but then lost the last match in the finals in his division. Graham lost his second match
at 149, but followed that with two more victories, giving him three victories for the day.

Furthermore, a trio of juniors posted solid results for the Irwin-Carolina Open. Coman at 125 and Travis Hunter ’06 both
won three decisions on the day. Hunter dropped his first match, but then won three straight in the consolation bracket.
It wasn’t until he went up against teammate Jim Avola ’07 that he lost another match. Ronnie Lofrese ’06 ended
with two victories, his first two matches of the day at 149.

Pendle had high praise for many of the Wildcat wrestlers, saying, “Ronnie [Lofrese] has been improving...he’s wrestling better than I’ve
ever seen. [Patrick] Coman keeps on doing well, as does [Benjamin] Graham, who is also at the top of his
game right now. Trebor [Clavette] is doing well now, and seems to have much more confidence, which should help him
to keep improving.”

However, coach T.J. Jaworsky knows that there is much work remaining for the season, as he says, “The entire team
wrestled well and with a lot of heart, but we are still making some fundamental mistakes. To be successful against
the best one cannot make a mental error or miss an opportunity.”

The Wildcats next wrestle at the Southern Shuffle, in Greensboro Dec. 29-30.Teammate Lauren Taft ’05 commented on Trefzger’s perseverance despite
her injuries: “Eli has been having a lot of shoulder pains this season but she never complains. You would never
know there was ever a problem. Even after most of the swimmers have finished their practice, Eli is the only
girl who stays in the water, working hard. When the rest of the girls are already showered, changed, and are
leaving the locker room, Eli is just coming in to shower. She is a powerhouse and a machine and despite
her shoulder, is still swimming incredibly well.” In fact, even with the shoulder injury, Trefzger has continued to have top-place
finishes in all of her races in the four meets this season. In the Nov. 6 quad meet against the
College of Charleston, Drexel, and George Mason, Trefzger won her event in the 1650 free with a fast time of
17:44.52. She also captured a first-place finish in the 500-yard freestyle with a time of 5:11.67. Senior teammate Melissa Marquez
’05 says, “Eli has continued to shine throughout this season despite her injuries. She had a season best for the
team in her fourth-place finish in the 500 free during [the Davidson Invitational]. She is an incredible asset to our
team.” When asked about her team and the contributions she has made, Trefzger couldn’t help but emphasize the support and
encouragement that her teammates in turn have given her: “They are all very supportive of me. Even though swimming at
Davidson can be very challenging at times and difficult to balance, the coaching staff and the team make the hard
work worth the time and effort.” Trefzger truly is an invaluable member of the Davidson Wildcat swim team, both in
and out of the water. Her strength, intensity, and incessant enthusiasm benefit her team in numerous ways. She represents a
true athlete in terms of her abilities, her attitude, and her dedication. As Poole aptly remarks, “I can honestly say
she is one of those people who makes you a happier and better person just by knowing her.”

From McCrory, page 12

At the very least, go a long way to support that claim. The problem is, there is no sign that
testing can keep up with the advancements of science. For example, doping agencies such as the IAAF can now target
Erythropoietin (EPO), one of the most common performance-enhancing drugs, but the newly-developed Aranesp quickly outwitted the tests. The BALCO-produced THG,
furthermore, gave test-takers a clean bill until a sample was given to USADA to produce an effective test. In the
future, with the ever-increasing emergence of gene therapy, athletes will be able to inject new genes into their cells to
ramp up athletic performance undetectably. Testing will get increasingly better, and the fight to combat performance enhancement will continue, but
it will always be behind the curve of science. Sports can take a stand to combat the growing drug culture
by enacting policies that so heavily punish users that athletes will begin to think twice about taking illegal drugs. Baseball,
for example, must do more than merely test and slap wrists. A positive test for steroids should be a five-year
ban in the sport, if not more. Same goes for the NFL, NBA, and IAAF, among others. We cannot catch
everyone, and we never will, so we have to set an example with the athletes that are found guilty of
doping. Unfortunately, even if sports can combat performance-enhancing drugs with penalties that truly discourage drug use, the problem will not
be completely solved. There will continue to be athletes that work around the system, finding ways to beat the newest
drug test in order to be the best. As Kelli White, a world sprint champion and doper who recently accepted
a two-year ban from the sport, told 20/20, “[Conte] made me believe that if I followed a certain protocol of
supplements and drugs that I could become No. 1 in the world... I felt that so many people were doing
it that I would just become one of the others.” That mentality to be the best, no matter what the
cost, will weigh on sports no matter what the penalty for using is. Without a doubt, there are clean athletes
out there, and some are even the best at what they do. Still, there will never be a way to
know for sure who is actually playing fair. Because of his connection to BALCO, Barry Bonds’ eventual home-run record should
come with an asterisk, as should his single-season mark for home runs. Unfortunately, so should every other Olympic medal, every
world record, and every single accomplishment on the field of play. The game of baseball has been compromised in the
fallout of the BALCO investigation, but more importantly, so has the integrity of sports as a whole.

GRILLED CHEESE
VEGGIE MELT
VEGGIE BURGER
VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP
VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES
CAESAR SALAD
FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE
HOMEMADE LEMONADE AND LIMEADE

Don’t think of us as just vegetarian fare!
194 S. MAIN ST. DAVIDSON, NC
VEGETABLE SOUP
Eat-in or Take-out
Call 896-7743
Sat-Thur 8-8
Fri 8-9
