THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004

Logan Kosmalski ’05 fights for one of his 12 rebounds while Ian Johnson ’06 skies for a shot.

Win over division-leading Charleston keeps ’Cats undefeated in Belk Arena

By Wilson McCrory
Staff Writer

For most of the season, the talk has focused on the Wildcats’ inability to win on the road; they had lost 11 straight away from Belk Arena until last Tuesday, when they finally registered a win against the Citadel in Charleston. And while the Wildcats’ struggles have been evident on the road, the real problem has been their play in crunch time, as each of Davidson’s five conference losses have gone down to the final minute of play.

When College of Charleston guard Thomas Mobley nailed his second straight shot to bring the Cougars to within three points at 69-66 with 1:04 to play on Saturday night, it appeared that Davidson’s blazing first-half run and solid play throughout the night could go for naught yet again. Davidson dominated the boards, shot 45 percent from the field, and got to the line 27 times on the evening, yet the Wildcats had seen a commanding 10-point lead dwindle to a one-possession game in under two minutes of action and their nine-game home winning streak appeared to be in jeopardy.

On the ensuing possession, Brendan Winters ’06 made the first of his two free throws, and his second attempt was tipped straight back to him at the line. The Wildcats then milked most of the fresh 35-second shot clock before Matt McKillop ’06 nailed a baseline trey with 25 seconds to play, putting the Wildcats up seven points and essentially icing the 74-68 victory.

In the opening minutes of the first half, however, it didn’t look as if the contest would ever be in doubt for the Wildcats. After claiming a 5-2 advantage minutes into the game, a lead the 'Cats would never relinquish, Davidson used an 18-4 run over the next seven minutes to take a commanding 26-9 lead ten minutes into the game. The Cougars responded to the run, though, as they ran off a quick 9-0 streak to bring the Davidson advantage back into single digits. Charleston would continue to chip away at the gap, eventually closing the half down only six at 38-32.

In the second half, the Wildcats again jumped out to a double-digit advantage, leading by as many as fifteen after a Winters three made it 55-40 with thirteen minutes to play. Davidson maintained a comfortable margin through the rest of the game before finally having to fight off the Cougars in the closing minutes.

In the victory, Winters extended his double-digit scoring streak to 21 games with a team-high 22 points, including four three-pointers, while Logan Kosmalski ’05 notched yet another double-double on the night with 12 rebounds and 15 points. The Wildcats also continued their recent dominance on the glass, out-rebounding Charleston 47-31 to mark the fourth straight game in which the Wildcats have totaled at least 40 rebounds. The ’Cats registered 16 offensive rebounds, leading to 15 second-chance points.

Men win another on the road

The Wildcats jumped out to an early 30-11 lead on the road against the Furman Paladins last night and held on at the end for an 83-73 victory. Davidson nailed six of its first eight three-point attempts early in the game to create the comfortable margin, but Furman came storming back in the second half with its own three-point barrage, nailing a school-record 14 treys in the game. The Paladins cut the lead to as few as seven with less than eight minutes to play, but a Brendan Winters ’06 layup and a three-pointer by Matt McKillop ’06 sealed the victory for the ’Cats. Winters scored a team-high 27 points in the game, and Logan Kosmalski ’05 added 16 points and 13 rebounds.compared to only six for the Cougars. The Wildcats return home on Saturday for a matinee showdown with conference-leading Georgia Southern.

Cats suffer close loss to N.C. State
By Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

After agreeing to play Davidson for the first time since any of the Wildcats’ current crop of players has been on the team, North Carolina State — and the ACC as a whole, for that matter — may finally have to grant Davidson women’s tennis the respect it deserves.

The Wildcats hosted the Wolfpack at the Knobloch Tennis Center on Sunday in a match that lasted more than five hours and could have gone either way. When the last ball had been struck, though, the Wildcats were on the losing end of a 4-3 heartbreaker.

Just as they did a week and a half earlier against South Carolina, Davidson got off to a quick start in doubles. This time, they were able to maintain their momentum and put the first point on the board with victories at positions one and two. At the number two slot, Meggie Patterson ’05 and Lindsey Powel ’06 earned the first doubles win for the ’Cats, winning a hard-fought match 8-4. After Katherine Hatch ’04 and Sarah Borkowski ’05 lost a tight match at number three, the attention shifted to court one where Kelly and Meghan Fillnow ’05 had jumped out to an early 5-0 lead. The Fillnows successfully weathered their opponents’ comeback attempt to earn an 8-5 victory and give the Wildcats the first team point in the match.

“That was the best doubles we’ve played as a team since I’ve been here,” commented head coach Caroline Price. “The doubles was sharp, clean, and played at a very high level. Meggie and Lindsey, in particular, played some of the best doubles we’ve seen out of them yet.”

As the match shifted into singles play, the Wildcats had the early lead and the momentum. But the Wolfpack came roaring back, determined to get early leads in every match and coast to the victory. “They came out like a heavyweight,” observed Price. “They tried to knock us out right away.” The N.C. State players accomplished at least part of their goal, as they jumped on top of the ’Cats and won the first set in every match. Despite valiant comeback efforts from Fillnow and Powel in their second sets, the Wolfpack won positions one and three to take back the lead 2-1. The Wildcats were in need of a win to stop N.C. State’s momentum and even up the match.

Kelly Fillnow ’05 sets up an approach shot during the team’s tough loss to N.C. State.

Player of the Week
Brendan Winters ’06
Men’s Basketball
Hometown: Oakland, CA
Major: Undecided

The ’Cats have been unstoppable lately, largely due to the stellar play of Winters. In the win over College of Charleston, Winters went 4-for-8 from behind the arc, totaling 22 points to go along with his nine rebounds. Last night, he repeated his impressive shooting with another four treys and 17 points in Davidson’s win over Furman.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

After a disastrous opening season loss to Chapel Hill 7-0, the men’s tennis team has run off an impressive four straight wins. Including two 7-0 victories this past week against Queens and Belmont Abbey, respectively, the men have not dropped a point since their opener, going a combined 28-0. The past two victories, in particular, were more than dominant. Against Queens, the ’Cats lost only twelve of sixty games at the one through five singles spots. Then, in their afternoon match, they built on that by again losing only fifteen of seventy-two games in the entire match. Although none of the matches have been in conference, the ’Cats hope to keep this momentum going into the following weeks.