16 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, April 21, 2004

By Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

The women’s tennis team entered the last week of the regular season having already accomplished far more than it had in recent history. The women earned the most conference victories in program history, cruising to a 7-1 conference record, and they put on some great individual performances as well, notching two Southern Conference Player of the Week awards and a SoCon Player of the Month award.

With only two matches left to play last week before the SoCon tournament this weekend, the Wildcats had an opportunity to achieve one more great accomplishment. Wins over both Wofford and Furman would have given the ’Cats their first ever regular season SoCon title and the top seed in the upcoming tournament.

A 6-1 pasting of Wofford on Thursday gave the team the opportunity to play for the top seed on Saturday against Furman, but numerous missed opportunities left the Wildcats on the short end of a closer-than-the-score-indicates 7-0 loss.

Thursday’s home match against Wofford at the Covington Courts was certainly not expected to be a walk in the park. Wofford, at that point, held the fourth-best record in the conference and had played very tight matches with some of the SoCon’s best teams. The Wildcats never let the Terriers into the match, though, controlling them from start to finish. All three Davidson doubles teams earned victories to gain the early 1-0 lead for the Cats. The team then carried the momentum from their doubles wins into the singles matches, dominating Wofford with straight-set victories in five of the six matches.

The only match in which Davidson came up short was the number one position, where Kelly Fillnow ’05 lost a tight match to Wofford’s top player, one of the conference’s best players, who subsequently earned SoCon Player of the Week honors. After losing the first set fairly quickly, Fillnow fought back to take the second. With the overall team match already decided, the players played a tiebreaker in lieu of a full third set, which Fillnow could not quite pull out, falling 6-1, 3-6, (10-6) and leaving the Wildcats’ victory margin at 6-1.

The stage was set for Saturday’s match with Furman: the last regular season match of the year, Senior Day for Captain Katherine Hatch ’04, and the regular season SoCon title on the line. “We couldn’t have asked for a better setting,” said head coach Caroline Price. The ’Cats’ play did not quite live up to the excitement, though. Hatch and Sarah Borkowski ’05 lost 8-1 at the number three doubles position, forcing the Wildcats’ top two doubles teams to pull out victories to earn the doubles point. After storming out to solid leads of 5-2 and 7-4, respectively, Kelly and Meghan Fillnow ’05, the ’Cats’ top doubles team, and Meggie Patterson ’05 and Lindsey Powel ’06, the number two

Musashe ’06 trots back to first after a single, one of seven total hits in the ’Cats’ 15-0 loss.

Eli Benefield ‘05
Baseball
Hometown: Gastonia, NC
Major: Economics

This past weekend, the ’Cats hosted a tough series against no. 22 College of Charleston. In the first game, the Cougars’ starting pitcher had a no-hitter going into the sixth inning. That soon changed as Benefield blasted a three-run homer to give the ’Cats a 3-2 lead. He then repeated the feat in the eighth inning to tack on an insurance run. For the series, Benefield was 4-for-10 with two runs, two home runs, four RBIs, two walks, and only one strikeout.

As the score shows, Patterson ’05 and Fillnow ’05 came up just a little short vs. the Paladins.Team, could not maintain their advantages. Each team lost their matches in tiebreakers, giving Furman the early 1-0 advantage. “That momentum shift gave them a big burst and took a little bit of the wind out of us,” said Price. Davidson’s struggles continued in the singles matches, as see Tennis, page 15.

The good, the bad, and the ugly: ’Cats

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Senior Staff Writer

After losing two of three to first-place and nationally-ranked #22 College of Charleston last weekend, the Davidson baseball team now stands at 10-11 in SoCon play and sits alone in seventh place in the league. Previously, the Wildcats won two of three against Appalachian State, which is stuck in last place with an abysmal 3-14 record. Overall, Davidson is at 10-15 with 14 games left, including nine against SoCon rivals.

Eli Benefield ’05 put on a show Friday evening, ripping two home runs and collecting four RBIs as Davidson upset Charleston 5-4 in the opening game of the series. The Cougars starter pitched five innings of perfect baseball and Charleston led 2-0 heading into the bottom of the sixth. With two men on, courtesy of a walk and an error, Benefield jacked a shot over the fence in left-center, giving Davidson a 3-2 lead and spoiling the no-hit bid. Alex Entrekin ’06 scored off a Taylor Shoop ’06 single in the seventh, and Benefield went yard again in the 8th as Davidson went up 5-2. Andy Carter ’05 (2-4) picked up the victory, allowing just five hits while striking out eight in six innings of work. Jay Heafner ’06 picked up his league-leading eighth save, allowing just one hit and striking out two in one inning.

On Saturday, Charleston exploded for 15 runs, proving to all why it ranks fourth nationally in scoring, and routed Davidson 15-0. The ’Cats provided little to talk about, rapping out just seven hits, including two by Brett Peiffer ’04, who was the only Wildcat with a multi-hit game. In what couldn’t exactly be called an offensive battle, the defense was nothing short of horrible, with both teams combining for nine errors.

On Sunday, Davidson literally let the game slip out of its fingertips as Wildcat pitchers combined to hit four Charleston batters with the bases loaded and the Cougars walked away with a 7-4 victory in the rubber match of the weekend series. Davidson jumped out to a quick lead in the second when Alden Crissey ’07 ripped a double to the gap in right-center and Shoop then crushed an 0-1 delivery over the rightfield fence for his second homer of the season, giving the ’Cats a 2-0 advantage. Davidson increased its lead in the fourth when Sam Navarro see Baseball, page 15.

10 schools attending the meet. The track and field team quietly turned in another impressive performance this past week up at Elon. Probably the sport that gets the least recognition, along with golf, the track team again showed it has some stellar standout athletes, as it had numerous top-three finishers among the 10 schools attending the meet.

In particular, Amanda Yeck ’04 tied for first place in the high jump with a leap of 1.53 meters, her second consecutive victory in the past two meets. Other usual top finishers included Greg Scott ’04, who finished second in the 800, and Dave Ritchie ’07 who finished second in the 400 and third in the 400 hurdles. This weekend the Wildcats get to come home and finally display their talents in front of their peers in Saturday’s Irwin Belk Invitational, which goes on all day.