THE DAVIDSONIAN - NEWS

Students travel to war-torn Sudan
Kenyi, Altmeyer teach merchants benefits of cooperative development

Sami JARRAH - Staff Writer

On January 16, Stella Kenyi ’05 and Andi Altmeyer ’06 returned to Davidson from a two-week long trip to southern Sudan. The students are the first college interns to travel to southern Sudan since the recent cease-fire agreement. After Kenyi completed a summer internship with the U.S. Overseas Cooperative Development Council in Arlington, Va., the OCDC provided goals and financial backing for both Kenyi and Altmeyer. The two Political Science majors received advice from faculty advisor and political science professor Dr. Ken Menkhaus and financial assistance from a Dean Rusk grant before traveling to Yei, a city of 320,000 people near the Congo-Uganda-Sudan border.

Embroiled in its most recent civil war since 1983, the source of tension is north Sudan’s political, economic, religious, and social domination over the southern Sudanese. Peace talks and a recent cease-fire agreement have encouraged foreign involvement, particularly from the United States and England. The focus of the students’ trip was to give four day-long workshops to local merchants and rebel leaders regarding the benefits of cooperative development. Kenyi, a native of Sudan, stated that the potential success of “New South Sudan” lies in its willingness to accept cooperative, community-based private businesses.

Along with other international support organizations such as the United States Agency for International Development, OCDC has focused its efforts on Yei as a “model city” for future Sudanese development because of its ideal location and large workforce. Helping to alleviate poverty and provide basic education and job skills, cooperative businesses share profits and are member-owned. OCDC believes that the greatest asset of Southern Sudan is its people. Kenyi and Altmeyer agree. Altmeyer noted how willing the Sudanese were to open up about their lives and difficulties, despite the initial hesitance. Commenting on what he learned at a workshop, one excited Sudanese man said to Altmeyer, “I’m going to teach my children what you taught me today.”

As part of their research, Kenyi and Altmeyer interviewed local Sudanese to make contacts for OCDC members. The hope is that American business leaders will be able to offer their guidance in building an urban infrastructure and economy. The students’ trip truly upholds OCDC’s core belief in the transition from foreign relief to domestic development. Kenyi and Altmeyer also conducted an inventory of the city’s electrical and telecommunication system. They found that Yei has no mail service, telephone lines, roads, or electricity. Merchants ride bicycles to nearby Congo and Uganda for basic necessities such as fuel that they sell in Yei. Despite the challenges the people of Yei face, the two students remain hopeful. They are currently writing a report on their findings in Sudan. Reflecting on the time spent in the Sudan, Altmeyer said, “Our experience there was incredible. We hope we made an impact in their lives.”

Stadium, from page 1

adding nets, relining the field, and adding sponsorship signs multiple times during the season. Scheduling conflicts with the track and football programs made optimum soccer programming difficult, and excessive wear on the Richardson field concerned all its users. The new facility will certainly relieve these problems but may introduce new ones. Some students have worried that the new location of all home games will affect attendance. Kara Koehrn ’06 said, “It’s an awesome facility, but it’s much further away than Richardson. We have a hard enough time getting students to take time out of their busy schedules to come out and watch as it is.” The new facility, which hopes to draw big teams and tournaments to Davidson in the future, does not include new space for parking, although Murphy indicated plans to improve the path from the Baker Parking Lot to the new field. Despite the drawbacks, there is an overwhelming excitement among coaches.and players from a fundraising point of view,” said Spear. Captain Ben Kittinger ’05 said, “All the players are really pumped about it. A lot of the bigger teams in our conference have their own fields. We’re already stepping up as a program and I think this will help bring the team even more unity and a sense of pride.” The new field’s name is tentatively the “1992 Final Four Soccer Field,” in honor of the only Davidson soccer team to appear in the NCAA Division-I Men’s Soccer Championship. Spear, also one of the members of that prized Final Four team, said, “The field honors the rich legacy of our Davidson soccer programs as well as new and incoming players themselves.” The success of the last four winning seasons of the Men’s soccer program culminated last fall when the Men’s team won the Southern Conference championship and played in the first round of the NCAA Tournament, only the third time in its history. Several Davidson players also earned recognition on the SoCon Academic All-Conference team for the fall semester of 2003. “The recent achievements of these players on and off the field really provided the impetus. It showed alumni that the program is alive and growing.” John Bell ’99 in Development and Mike Warner, Director of the Athletic Foundation, spearheaded the bulk of the fundraising efforts that took place over the last year. They mostly targeted soccer-enthused parents and alumni, a much younger alumni base than usual for such capital projects. “It wasn’t just a couple of families giving huge gifts. Over 100 donors gave anywhere from $50,000 to $150,000,” said Spear, who along with Women’s Coach Kevin Hundley, initiated the campaign over two years ago.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2004

Historic military barracks moved to Tara Airbase

By Ben Wuchamter - Three World War II army barracks, located at the corner of Griffith and Beaty Streets in Davidson, will be relocated to the Tara Airbase, where they will serve as monuments honoring the men and women who served America during WWII. The barracks were built in the early forties when Davidson signed a contract with the federal government worth $168,500 to house and educate troops. From 1943 to 1944, the barracks housed 1,500 student cadets for three-month shifts, during which time the cadets took a variety of Davidson classes in addition to receiving specialized instruction related to their soldierly duties. After the war ended, Davidson used the barracks as housing for its large number of married students. During this period, the barracks were also known as the “cardboard village.” When the number of married couples declined, the barracks were bought by Davidson resident Ralph Johnson. The late Johnson maintained ownership until charitably giving the barracks back to Davidson three years ago. The college then vacated the deteriorated buildings but helped their residents find other housing. The barracks rested there until retired U.S. Air pilot and owner of the Tara Airbase Novaro Nichols recently expressed interest in purchasing the buildings. Nichols is a collector of World War II memorabilia and proudly opens his collection to the public. With the barracks in grave need of renovation and Nichols being an avid collector of World War II era aviation, the transaction is beneficial to both parties. “Overall, I think it’s an innovative use of the buildings which have probably outlived their usefulness as housing,” said Archivist Jan Blodgett. If not for Nichols, the historic barracks may have been torn down. The move to Tara Airbase will preserve the buildings and provide Nichols with another attraction. “I’m happy that these buildings can be used in a way that emphasizes their history rather than seeing them torn down,” said Bill Giduz, Davidson’s Director of Media Relations. Giduz calls the barracks’ new home, the Tara Air Base, “a well-maintained facility committed to honoring the efforts of the millions of men and women who fought for America in World War II.”

Philadelphia Center Education at Work

Get a taste of life in one of America’s greatest cities. Earn academic credit living, working, and studying in Philadelphia! Financial Aid applies and Academic Credits transfer!