THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 2004 17

Schmader and Snoopy on distance running

By WALKER SAIK
Senior Staff Writer

So there’s this Peanuts comic where Snoopy goes out on a run. He’s zipping along paths, past trees, up hills, down rocky pathways, across grassy knolls, and so on. The whole time various body parts are talking to Snoopy. “Why do we feet have to do all the work,” or “Lips are made for kissing, not running... We need more kissing,” or “How about noses? I hate jokes about running noses.” Naturally, the punch line is, “How can the long-distance runner ever get lonely?” Funny? Perhaps not, but to any runner who gets the allusion to Alan Sillitoe’s novel “The Loneliness of the Long-Distance Runner,” it’s at least a little cute.

But to someone like senior Chris Schmader, it’s a bit more applicable. Schmader runs the 10K. That’s right, they have a ten-kilometer event in outdoor track. That’s code for running a long way. There’s also a little side note to this whole Snoopy business. Schmader runs like him. With his low-to-the-ground, short strides, Schmader will sneak up on you like that 55-year-old man in the Town Day 5k, leaving you shocked and appalled that you just got reeled in like a fat flounder.

But how did Schmader end up in this position? What makes him so special that he can cope with running 26 ovals before calling it a day? “Certainly, the 10k has been in the cards [for Chris] the entire time, because he’s not blazing fast but he has great endurance,” says head coach Gary Andrew. “He’s very consistent, and that’s a plus for a distance runner. Chris is definitely Mr. Consistency, and that’s one of the keys to success.”

And for those that are frantically checking the Facebook, this is indeed the same guy who crushed the competition in DO’s Team Triathlon at the Lake Campus this past Sunday. And, no, he probably wasn’t trying that hard. Schmader, who has been running 70 miles a week this season, has never backed down from the intimidating 10k race. “I came to college thinking I’d run whatever I was needed to run, and that ended up being the 10k because my talent was running long distances,” says the co-captain who just set his PR in the 10k this past weekend with a 32:01 performance. “As soon as I found out I was running it, I was pretty excited. I never dreaded running it.”

But wait a minute. That’s 26 laps. He ran that in 32 minutes. That’s like a Seinfeld episode. Doesn’t he get bored? What does he think about that whole time? “This past weekend, I was basically thinking, ‘Hold on. Hold on. Hold on,’ the whole time throughout the 3rd and 4th miles, and if I ever began thinking about how many laps I had left, I just focused on the guy ahead of me and the lap I was on. I didn’t want to psych myself out by thinking I had three miles left after running three.”

Schmader is the type that gets excitable easily. Talk to him about music or movies and his eyes light up, and his mouth gets rolling about all the latest music hits or movie genres. Perhaps this is the attitude he takes to running. Excitable, yet focused. Ready to go, but waiting for the moment to let loose. Certainly, though, opening up with a bang would be a mistake, so Schmader has to keep it cool at the start. “I think about how I want to stay relaxed throughout the race.”

---

from Lacrosse, page 18

an unassisted goal, and the two teams traded goals over the next few minutes to bring the score to 15-5 with 14 minutes to play. The ’Cats then went on a scoring run, tallying five unanswered goals by five different players over the next 12 minutes to cut the lead to 15-10 with 2:22 remaining. The Buckeyes responded with two more goals for the final 17-10 score.

Although the ’Cats lost the game, they gained some confidence after a difficult weekend of play. Captain Millie McKeachie ’06 said of the match-up, “We played very well during the second half of the Ohio State game, and we capitalized by feeding off of each other. The score for the second half of that game was tied, and we held our own against a large state school. We just need to dominate from the first whistle.”

The ’Cats at 3-9 overall remain winless in conference play at 0-5. The team will host conference rival Vanderbilt at noon on Easter Sunday for their next game.first mile,” he says of his mentality at the starting line. “Because if I go out too fast through the first few laps, the race is basically over. The last five miles will be absolutely miserable.” 

Ok, wait. Back up. Six miles where even the slightest mishap early on could lead to five miserable miles? Why would someone do that to himself? Why run in the first place? 

“I think running as a sport is an exercise in willpower that has few rivals among other sports,” responds Schmader, who is shooting for a top-five in Conference. “I think there’s a purity to the sport that makes competition that much more intense and that much more beautiful.” 

But the paper deadline is fast approaching, so let’s wrap this up. Bobby vs. Schmader in a treadmill contest. Bobby picks the pace. Who stops first? 

“I’m going to have to say Bobby stops first. I know he’s a monster, but I think I’ve put in the miles to get the job done.” 

Sounds like a challenge in the making: Snoopy vs. The Prez.

from PGA Golf, page 16

seen the best, then everything else is second-rate. On the other hand, look at the LPGA. While the PGA had one of their worst years ever last year, the LPGA had their best. Why? Because they were pushing boundaries, and, in the form of players such as Annika Sorenstam and Michelle Wie, driving the women’s game to a new level and playing against men. It was the competition between the men and the women that drove the new interest, and the women had the spotlight. The PGA needs to revive its tradition of great competition. Until that happens, we’ll be left wanting something more. The moral of this story applies to a far wider field than golf. Winners are fun to watch, but competition is what makes sports great.

from Women’s Tennis, page 20

won all three doubles matches once again, before the match was moved indoors due to rain. The women maintained their momentum in the singles matches, sweeping all six in straight sets for the 7-0 win. Erin Moakler ’07 made an impressive debut in the starting lineup, winning 6-0, 6-0 at number-six singles in her first starting action of the season. 

After three consecutive shutouts against several lower-tier Southern Conference teams, the Wildcats knew their match with Charlotte would be anything but easy. The 49ers had already taken out the SoCon defending champions, College of Charleston, earlier this season, playing with a team much improved from the one Davidson squeaked by 4-3 last year. The doubles matches ensured that the ’Cats would not post a fourth consecutive shutout, as Charlotte dominated all three matches. 

“They thumped us,” said head coach Caroline Price. “With their unbelievable serving, their doubles teams would be at the top of the Southern Conference.” 

Despite the tough doubles losses, the singles competition would be a different story. After a loss at number one singles put the ’Cats down 2-0, Sarah Borkowski ’05 put Davidson on the scoreboard with a 6-1, 6-4 win at the number six position. Borkowski, who has filled in capably for the Wildcats through various injuries to other starting singles players, earned her fifth consecutive win. 

“Sarah has done a great job of stepping up in the lineup when our [singles] starters are out,” said Price. 

A subsequent 7-5, 6-1 win from Meghan Fillnow at number three offset Kate Levitt’s ’07 loss at number four, bringing the overall match score to 3-2 in favor of Charlotte. Levitt’s loss brought an end to her ten-match winning streak, though she remains undefeated in conference play and was honored as the SoCon Women’s Tennis Player of the Month for the month of March. 

After winning a tough first set, Patterson dropped the second and was forced to battle it out in the third to keep the ’Cats alive. Several questionable calls from her opponent resulted in overrules from the official, bringing an air of controversy to the match. In the end, the controversy created by her opponent combined with the Charlotte player’s solid shot-making proved to be too much for Patterson. Her 6-7 (4), 6-3, 6-4 loss gave Charlotte its fourth point and the victory, with only Katherine Hatch ’04 remaining on court for Davidson. Leading 4-3 in the third set of her match with the overall outcome already decided, Hatch’s match was suspended due to darkness, leaving the final margin at 4-2. 

With Charleston’s recent loss to ETSU, the Wildcats now have a chance to finish atop the conference. If Davidson can defeat Wofford next Thursday, Saturday’s match with Furman will determine the regular-season SoCon champions.