THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Men’s tennis season ends at SoCon with sweep by ETSU

BY ERIK SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

Entering last weekend’s Southern Conference tournament without two singles starters and on a four-match losing streak, the men’s tennis team knew they were in for a challenge. By virtue of their 2-8 regular season conference record, the Wildcats earned the ninth seed, setting up a rematch with the eighth-seeded UNC-Greensboro team that narrowly defeated Davidson less than a week earlier, with top-seeded East Tennessee State looming in the next round.

Especially impressive performances from the team’s young players led the ’Cats to a 4-3 revenge victory over Greensboro, but ETSU proved to be too tough in the next round, extending their perfect conference record with a one-sided 4-0 win over Davidson in the quarterfinals.

Thursday morning’s match against Greensboro was a great one for the Wildcats. Despite losing to UNC-G less than a week earlier, the ’Cats knew they could beat the Spartans and extend their season at least one more match. Davidson played with this confidence from the start, earning consecutive victories at the one and three doubles positions for the doubles point and the 1-0 advantage. Rob Haywood ’04 and Russ Burns ’05 rallied from an early deficit to a 9-7 win in the top doubles match, while Bryan Stonestreet ’04 and Porus Jetli ’07 cruised to an 8-2 triumph at number three.

“The doubles point was absolutely crucial for us,” said head coach Jeff Frank. “Winning that point gave us momentum and got them a little down on themselves.”

The singles competition produced much more mixed results. Stonestreet and John Bolton ’07, at positions two and six respectively, dominated their opponents to gain a quick 3-0 lead for the ’Cats. Greensboro refused to give up, though, recording straight set victories over Haywood (#1), Burns (#3), and Jetli (#4). With the match tied at 3-3, all eyes turned to Daniel Bermeo ’06 in the number five slot. After Bermeo lost a tight first set in a tiebreaker, the Wildcats were precariously close to a second consecutive loss to the Spartans. But Bermeo, playing only his fifth match at the number five position, elevated his game when it mattered most, winning the next two sets to clinch the 4-3 victory and a berth in the quarterfinals for Davidson.

“Stonestreet played awesome, one of the best matches of his career,” Frank commented, “and Bolton’s win was a great turnaround from his loss to that guy last week. The win for Bermeo was great for him, especially coming into the lineup recently without being a starter for most of the year. The team showed a lot of resiliency coming back and beating Greensboro six days after losing to them.”

Twenty-four hours later, ETSU made sure the excitement was short-lived for the ’Cats. After narrowly losing two doubles matches in tiebreakers against the Mocs a week and a half earlier, Davidson’s best chance to secure a point was the doubles competition. The Wildcats were not able to push ETSU to the brink this time though, falling at positions two and three by scores of 8-5 and 8-6, respectively, to give ETSU the early lead. The Mocs continued their strong play in the singles matches, rolling over Davidson’s men at positions two, four, and six to quickly clinch the 4-0 win. Unlike several of the substantially closer matches remaining on court, the three singles matches to finish were decidedly one-sided. Stonestreet’s match at number two proved to be the closest of the three, and even he only managed four games in a 6-1, 6-3 loss. Despite not finishing his match, Haywood was playing some of his best tennis of the season at number one, leading 4-1 in the second after losing a close first set.

The Wildcats can be reassured by the Mocs’ subsequent run to the championship, but the season obviously did not end the way the team envisioned back in January. “I feel bad for the seniors,because this should’ve been a great year for us,” Frank said. “But I’m proud of the way the guys bounced back from the setbacks and played hard in the conference tournament.” With three singles starters and four doubles starters graduating this year, the team will have a very different look next season. Donald Miles ’05 and Russ Burns ’05 will lead a team full of talented young players who gained valuable experience this year. “The underclassmen got to compete in the SoCon tourney early in their careers, seeing what it’s like to compete in this conference,” said Frank. “Hopefully all the guys realized the things they need to work on to improve their games this summer, so they can come back ready to play.”

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 2004

Sarah Carter ’07 played in her first Senior Day game, while Lauren Williams ’04, the team’s captain and lone senior, played in her last.

Loss to William and Mary drops lacrosse to 3-13 overall

After Senior Day defeat, ‘Cats take on Division II Lees-McRae on turf field for last game of season

By KATHERINE SWAIN
Staff Writer

Davidson faced No. 17 William and Mary at noon last Saturday, Senior Day. The 'Cats played for their lone senior teammate, co-captain Lauren Williams. Williams had one assist and four draw controls for the day. The ’Cats made a valiant comeback in the second half against the Tribe, scoring four consecutive goals in only two minutes, but it was not enough to combat William and Mary’s first half dominance. Davidson lost 19-9 in their second-to-last contest of the season.

William and Mary quickly gained the lead in the first half, scoring the first seven consecutive goals by six different Tribe members. Eloise Grose ’06 cut their streak with the first of her four goals in the game at the 16:12 mark. For the remaining ten minutes of the first half, Davidson and W&M traded goals, leaving the score 11-2 at intermission. The Tribe dominated the first half with 25 shots to Davidson’s six. Davidson also gave up 10 turnovers while W&M only handed over just three.

Visibly fired up and ready to show their true colors, Davidson entered the second half with a new presence on the field. Both teams battled, and the defenses held strong, with neither team finding the net for the first eight and a half minutes of play. Grose finally notched a goal at the 8:39 mark. The two defenses did not relent, and no one scored for another seven minutes, until Lindsay Frank ’05 scored with 15:55 remaining. The ’Cats then went on a scoring spree. Within the 20:11 to 22:09 mark, Davidson scored four goals, with McKeachie, Ruthie Hill ’07, and Grose (2) finding the net. W&M, stunned, knew that they had to stop Davidson’s momentum; their lead had been cut to 14-8, with the ’Cats outscoring them 6-2 in the second half. The Tribe responded by scoring two goals in under a minute. Frank notched her second goal of the day a minute later. With the score at 16-9 with less than five minutes remaining, the Tribe then took off. Five different W&M players scored to increase their lead to 19-9 at the end of play.

To honor Williams, posters lined the fence, and some players even wore socks with “LW” to pay tribute to their oldest teammate. “Lauren’s impact on Davidson lacrosse will remain strong after she graduates. We admire her hustle and tenacity on the field, we respect her dedication to the team, and we thank her for her leadership,” said co-captain Millie McKeachie ’06. The ’Cats have their final regular season game against Lees-McRae on Friday, April 30 at 5 p.m. on the turf.

If you speak Arabic, this is your chance to start a career as an Army Linguist. This experience will help prepare you for a future in business, government agencies, embassy work and more! You'll also get English training (if needed) and receive quick advancement in rank. See your local Army Reserve Recruiter or visit arabic.goarmy.com.

AN ARMY OF ONE