THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2004

Iraq will be a victory
John Kerry ate Bush’s lunch in first debate
By MATTHEW HALL
By JOE REED
Staff Columnist

Whether you speak to Democrats or Republicans, the war in Iraq seems to be the big issue this fall. If you talk to most any Kerry supporter on campus, you will inevitably hear them complain about our damaged international repute, our lack of an effective plan in Iraq, the hundreds of killed Americans, and that the information we went to war on was wrong, and that therefore our war was illegitimate. These same people blame President Bush, labeling him a moron, a monkey, or worse. The haters of Bush have misled themselves, however. They refuse to accept the truth about what happened before and after our invasion, and they remain defeatist while our troops continue the fight. They fail to appreciate our achievement.

The United States went to war in 2003 based on seemingly solid information. The intelligence services of the United Kingdom, Germany, and Russia supported the CIA’s conclusions. The majority of the international community was convinced that our information was correct. The issue became not whether Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction, but what to do about it. It is crucial to realize this. Many people these days criticize the war because it turned out that the information we relied on was incorrect. One must realize, however, that our experts, and experts around the globe, thought this information was excellent. The United States went to war on substantiated information. In a matter of weeks, we defeated Saddam’s forces and were in control of Iraq. Nevertheless, the bloodshed did not end, and more and more Americans began to die. Many said that our losses were the result of our lacking a plan. The fact of the matter is, however, that we have had a plan. Our troops and contractors have been tirelessly trying to improve Iraq’s infrastructure, army, education, government, and basic social services. Those that say we do not have a plan, or that our plan has failed, should realize that there has never been a single war or occupation that went according to plan.

Secondly, we beat the Iraqis too quickly. We overpowered their troops and declared ourselves the victor. And while we had decimated their army, we had not decimated their spirit. Once we began our occupation, they began doing what any people used to centuries of tyranny would do, they resisted. People should realize that very few countries coming out of a war are stable. Let’s look at the results of our war. We may have chilled relations with Europe, but that is not new. Throughout the Cold War, while we were defending their backyards, we had numerous disagreements with France and Germany. And while the information we went to war on may not have been accurate, our intentions were the best. We were and are fighting for the security of ourselves and the world. There may be violence in Iraq now, but give the Iraqi people a few years, and we may all be pleasantly surprised. In our battle for a safer world, we have overthrown a despot. We have given the Iraqi people, and the Middle East, the opportunity to claim freedom and democracy for themselves. For hundreds of years, their history has been one of decline, degradation, and suppression. With our help, the future could be one of justice and advancement. It may take decades, indeed the implementation of new ideas and new institutions takes time, but wouldn’t it be worth it? Let’s just hope that we have the courage to help them, and they have the wisdom to accept it.

Staff Columnist

Immediately after a presidential debate, in one of the media’s favorite traditions of the election season, campaign operatives and pundits on both sides begin furiously “spinning” the result in an effort to show that their candidate was the victor. It’s quite rare indeed for supporters of a candidate to come right out and say, essentially, that their man got stomped. This is why it was so shocking to see commentary from conservative pundit Joe Scarborough referring to the debate as “a very clear win on points for John Kerry,” as well as an article from the right-wing magazine “National Review” admitting that the author, were he a swing voter, would vote for Kerry if his decision were based solely on what he calls “that infernal debate.” So what happened to make even such Republican-biased observers unequivocally declare Kerry the winner? Was Kerry really that dominant? Yes, he was.

This is the John Kerry the Democrats nominated to take the fight to President Bush—calm, resolute, aggressive, and utterly in command of the issues. From the very first question, he put the president on his heels, and kept him there for the vast majority of the 90-minute debate, stepping boldly onto Bush’s turf early on by flatly declaring, “I can make America safer than President Bush has made us.” His firm and succinct statements of position on Iraq should help to neutralize, at least for now, the “flip-flopper” charges that have plagued him. Perhaps his finest moment came when, responding to Bush’s mockery of one of his infamously vague statements on Iraq, he simply said, “I made a mistake in how I talk about the war. But the president made a mistake in invading Iraq. Which is worse?” That is the question Kerry should have been asking for the past several months, and Bush was never able to give a credible response.

The president, for his part, was not awful by any stretch. He did, however, seem on the defensive all night, and a few of his attempted counter-punches simply missed the mark. For instance, his (repeated) emphasis on the importance of the support of Poland in the Iraq war would have made him look desperate to make his “coalition” appear legitimate even if President Kwasniewski had not been quoted in March as saying his country had been “taken for a ride” on Iraq. President Bush’s worst moments, though, came when his opponent was speaking. As Kerry offered his dissection of the president’s record, Bush fidgeted, scowled, and generally appeared to be totally uncomfortable having to defend his record without his usual crowd of cheering partisan supporters. Foreign policy was supposed to be President Bush’s strongest issue. Some columnists went so far as to describe the foreign-policy and national-security issues as Bush’s “meal ticket.” Well, if that’s the case, then John Kerry just ate his lunch.

Can faith withstand the scrutiny of study?
By ROS RUSCU
Staff Columnist

Many of us take God as a given in our lives. Yet the fragility of His existence often makes us leery to question Him. Since God is primarily based on faith, questioning Christianity can naturally lead to deterioration in religious belief. In college, we are taught to analyze and question everything, including the Bible, the literary foundation of Christian belief. Surprising to some, an in-depth analysis of the Bible shows great disparity in many of its stories. From creation to the flood, we see multiple and different accounts. These discrepancies come from the fact that the Bible is an agglomeration of tales written by different authors during different periods of time, but they still serveTo call into question the Bible’s validity as a historically accurate document. So what is the most beneficial way to study the Bible? According to Professor Trent Foley of Davidson’s Religion Department, the Bible should be studied both as a religious and a historical document. He says that he doesn’t buy the fact that the Bible describes “what really happened if we could take a video camera back and shoot it all,” but that there are clear historical references in it that can be studied in that time period. The Bible is a religious document for Christians as well, and should be studied and understood through that context.

Recently, students enrolled in Humanities 150 have been analyzing and discussing various portions of the Bible’s Old Testament. Having interviewed several of these students, I’ve found that many of them have actually increased their faith due to this analysis. As Freshman Sarah Allen said, “Faith can grow stronger as a result of questioning.” In addition to linear discrepancies, students in Humanities have also discovered some very disturbing aspects in God’s character during their studies. Often God will obliterate a town in the name of a form of justice that is more than a little unclear or He will grossly favor the Hebrews in battle against people of a more innocent demeanor. Freshman Mac Meese explains these peculiarities by the fact that “you have to look culturally at many of the situations.”

On the other hand of the issue, one could argue that faith is the ultimate form of denial. Whenever a contradictory or questionable situation arises, a good Christian will claim it’s not wrong in the least. Why? Because they have faith that, although they might not understand the reasons, God does. In a way, faith is an excuse for every fallacy in the theory of Christianity.

Considering all this, what are the real advantages of studying the Bible in an academic nature? In my opinion, I feel that doing so allows you to cope with the reality of your beliefs. Inevitably, an in-depth study of the Bible, whether new or familiar to you, will change the way you think about Christianity. Whether atheist or Christian, looking at another perspective influences the way you treat a certain topic. For me, I feel that studying the Bible has solidified my Christian views, while oddly devaluing the accuracy of the Bible. I feel that I better understand the complicated ways in which God works, but have grown to see the Bible as merely a literary work of fiction through which individuals struggle to explain these complexities themselves.

President Bush, like Nixon, demands and then abuses public trust

By Ross MacDonald
Staff Columnist

“Iraq is a central part of the war on terror,” President George W. Bush emphatically declared to the world last Thursday night. While that might be true now, it was not true when he first started saying it two years ago. That is the most extraordinary quirk of this administration, and my biggest problem with it. While the President keeps saying that “We are making progress,” as he did on Thursday night, the truth is that the administration is failing the American people and only compounds those failures by refusing to take responsibility for them. Nobody is perfect, and that goes for politicians as well as plebeians, yet the Bush administration’s refusal to admit fallibility and accept accountability cripples our country and our ability to successfully fight the war on terror.

When it became clear that the Abu Ghraib prison scandal was not an isolated incident caused by one or two twisted, low-level soldiers, but rather a result of a system-wide policy and problem, why wasn’t anyone at the Defense Department held responsible? When America finally realized that we would, in fact, not be greeted with roses and rallies in Iraq, why didn’t the administration question its policymakers? Why didn’t the President apologize to the American people and to the families of the soldiers he forced into the Iraqi quagmire without an exit strategy? When the ties between Saddam and Osama turned out to be non-existent, why is it that Dick Cheney still insisted that there was a link? Why does the President continue to assert that there were weapons of mass destruction? Why can’t the President admit that sometimes he might be wrong? Why, as our situation in Iraq and the world continues to degenerate, does the President still insist that we are making progress? Why is he still deceiving us?

Truth is blind and it hurts, and the truth is that we are not making progress in Iraq. After over 1,000 dead Americans, and close to 15,000 dead Iraqi civilians, we control less of Iraq now than we did, through no-fly zones and sanctions, when Saddam was still in power. The truth is that we went into Iraq with no plan to secure the country, to stabilize it and foster its recreation, and because of that, we need to begin questioning whether there is something worse than Saddam. Could a chaotic state pose a threat far more potent than Saddam ever did? Before we invaded Iraq there were no foreign terrorists, jihadists, or suicide bombers roaming Baghdad’s streets. The truth is that the Iraq war has vastly increased our vulnerability and done more for Al-Qaeda than Osama ever did. The Bush administration needs to admit its faults and accept reality if we are ever going to start to make progress.

The truth is that the Defense Department ordered the policies that led to Abu Ghraib and understood what was happening there far before the media did. And still, nothing is done to the real perpetrators of those horrific acts, Donald Rumsfeld and Paul Wolfowitz. Why don’t they say that they made a mistake? The administration can claim that these were isolated incidents, but isolated incidents don’t occur at almost every prison in Iraq. The truth is that, as Paul Krugman said, “From the day his administration took office, its slogan has been ‘just trust us.’ No administration since Nixon has been so insistent that it has the right to operate without oversight or accountability, and no administration since Nixon has shown itself to be so little deserving of that trust.”

I am not saying that we should not have invaded Iraq, nor am I explicitly blaming the President for his mistakes, because as I earlier stated, everyone makes mistakes. However, his refusal to be honest with the American people and to admit his mistakes only makes our country suffer more. As he storms the campaign trail purporting lies about Iraq and the war on terrorism, our chances of fixing these problems grow slimmer. While this deceit may aid his chances of reelection, it only hurts our country. Living a lie doesn’t solve the problem. For everyone who vilified Bill Clinton for lying to the country, what is worse, lying about your sex life or about a war that has caused the deaths of thousands of soldiers and civilians? We need the truth and accountability for our government if we want to win this war on terror and save our country, and if the President is not willing to change his ways and accept reality, then we need a new man for the job.