-4 THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24, 2004

Film and Media concentration to be added to curriculum

By Katie PFEIFFER
Staff Writer

The 2004-2005 school year will see the addition of a Film and Media Studies concentration to the ten concentrations already
currently offered. According to Dr. Alan Singerman, the faculty liaison, creating a concentration in film is the result of a
long-term special interest in media on the part of both faculty members and students.

The concentration may be fulfilled by numerous courses scattered across nine departments: Anthropology, Chinese, English, French, German, History, Music, Psychology,
and Spanish. Many classes that now complement the concentration are ones that have been offered in previous years but until
now only counted towards specific majors. Singerman hopes that the creation of the concentration will encourage the interest in film
at Davidson.

“It rewards students who are willing to do a sufficient amount of work on film as an international and interdisciplinary
phenomenon to gain a relatively in-depth knowledge of the subject and an ability to appreciate its subtleties,” he said.

The film concentration will require the completion of six courses: Introduction to Film and Media Studies (CIS 220) and a
seminar varying in subject according to professor, as well as four electives. In general, the concentration is centered around film
as it enhances other subjects. The mandatory courses, therefore, will give students a foundation in the art of film itself
prior to a study of its applications.

The process of creating the concentration was, according to Singerman, not difficult, since the college has had the resources and
faculty support for a while. There are continued hopes for academic and financial investment in film and film production as
the concentration gets under way. Next year’s introductory class will be taught by Professor of Music Neil Lerner and the
seminar will be taught by Professor of English Zoran Kuzmanovich.

For those students interested in the film industry in addition to the liberal arts perspective on film, courses in that
area will be applicable to the concentration. Despite its visible benefits, the introduction of another concentration raises the question of
whether Davidson’s courses of study are becoming too specific and therefore becoming incompatible with the idea of a liberal arts
education. As the number of majors/minors and concentrations offered to students increases, there may be a corresponding decrease in the
subject matter that is studied by individual students.

Singerman does not believe that this will be the case. The film concentration represents a needed branching out of academic
options and is the answer to an already established foundation of support for the study of film and media, he
said. He believes “knowing how to ‘read’ a film can lead to a whole lifetime of more sophisticated and more
enriching experiences with film.” In this light, the film concentration will only help to sharpen the analytical tools that are
so prized by the liberal arts institution, Singerman said.“Liq se SS OF Senior Class Gift Update oo%* Congratulations, Seniors! The
Senior Class Gift has reached 78.2% PAID participation. LET’S HAVE ANOTHER RECORD-BREAKING YEAR, AND SURPASS THE CLASS OF 2003’S PARTICIPATION
OF 84%. To pay your pledge online, visit The Annual Fund website at www.davidson.edu/giving or mail check or cash to
The Annual Fund, Box 7170. Please contact Maria Tardugno (x2113) with questions. Have a fabulous Spring Break!

Graffiti, from page 1
continue to happen on this campus. This is precisely the kind of blind and ignorant hate that the GSA tries
to combat, regardless of its form. Davidson’s campus has come a long way in becoming more welcoming to its gay
students but there is obviously still a lot of work to be done,” said Talbert. Marsicano said, “For a Davidson
student or students to engage in this juvenile behavior on a continuing basis over a period of months seems remarkably
immature at best - perhaps even a little sick. “I am deeply disturbed by the turn the last incident took
as it singled out gay students in a way that was at least harassing and could be considered threatening. This,
of course, is entirely unacceptable on a campus which values its diversity and seeks to be a community that recognizes
the dignity and inherent worth of every person.”

Trustees, from page 1
soon after it was introduced: The Executive Committee’s decision to form the subcommittee came out of last February’s trustee retreat,
where members of the Board explored “What it means to be a church-related college in the Reformed Tradition.” One of
the outcomes of the weekend-long discussion was a request for the Executive Committee to examine the trustee religion requirements. The
Executive Committee is comprised of the Chair, Vice-Chair, Secretary, President, Chairs of the various standing committees, and three members appointed
by the Chair. In addition to this request, a few recommendations emerged from small group discussions of trustees during the
retreat. The recommendation regarding the religion requirement as it pertains to alumni trustees struck the Executive Committee as one deserving
special attention. While Vagt did not expect any recommendation by the committee to be made by the Board’s annual April
meeting, he is optimistic of one being announced by October. The requirement has been a topic of debate for many
students, faculty, and trustees: Several sections of the Board’s Bylaws require trustees to affirm their commitment to the Christian faith.
Some feel the requirement does not exemplify the religious diversity of the student body, while others claim the Board’s Christian
membership requirement provides a more open and inclusive atmosphere to students of all faiths. Once a recommendation regarding the trustee
requirements is made, the entire Board will discuss and vote on the issue.

Interested in writing for News? It’s never too late! Email sawesley or ruturakhia.

ARTS & SCIENCE COUNCIL
North Carolina Dance Theatre and Davidson Dance Ensemble present Dance! Balanchine to Bluegrass
Duke Family Theater, Davidson College
March 25, 2004
7:30 pm
Tickets: $15
$10 for Students
For Tickets call (704) 894-2135
NORTH CAROLINA THEATRE”
