4 THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2004

MRSA, from page 1

coccus (or Staph) bacteria commonly colonizes in the nose or on the skin of approximately 30 percent of the healthy
population, Marsicano said. MRSA, though, is a type of Staph bacteria that resists the normal treatment of antibiotics like penicillin.
Carriers of both Staph and MRSA bacteria are not susceptible to infection, White said. However, MRSA is easily spread to
those people in close physical contact and with cuts or wounds. Members of sports teams and their “close associates” are
more likely to get infected and spread the bacteria than the general student population.

White provided other reasons for the staff’s response, which he called “timely and appropriate.” The close proximity of students living
on campus and in dorms makes most college students more susceptible than the general population. White reported a recent outbreak
at NC State among its general student population. Also, the body’s natural resistance to harmful bacteria decreases when immune systems
are weakened by lack of nutrition or sleep.

“I am confident that we’ve got it under control,” said Marsicano, after a thorough treatment of Baker Sports Complex and
the Union fitness center. The football locker room, carpets, and equipment were steam-cleaned from top to bottom and will continue
to be cleaned on a regular basis. Football players are now issued disposable towels and must shower after practice. Cleaning
procedures have also been stepped up in all athletic and fitness facilities. Spray bottles of a stronger, more effective disinfectant
than used in past years have been placed next to all equipment.

Assistant Union Director Tim Stroud said the 24-hour Fitness Center may consider switching to disposable towels. He has also encouraged
student employees to wipe down equipment before and after each use. “We have the right cleaning solutions. We can prevent
spread if everyone’s proactive.” Stroud also said students identified with MRSA are prohibited from the Fitness Center until they have
been properly treated.

The problem is that “people don’t recognize it and treat [MRSA],” said Dean Marsicano. Early symptoms include small pimple-like bumps
that redden and fill with pus. These bumps can spread into larger and deeper skin infections, creating abscesses and boils.
Report any suspicious skin sore or boil to Student Health immediately (x2300). Students who are found to have the infection
sign a waiver that allows the Health Center to notify the Residence Life Office so that rooms, showers, and toilets
could be disinfected in dorms or apartments.

Plunge, from page 1

essential to blend in more readily within the homeless community. Following the advice of the “Urban Plunge Manual,” group members
did not shower between two and five days before the trip and the men in the group did not shave.
“We wore the same clothes we would wear on the trip starting two days in advance, so that they might
begin to look a little worn and acquire a smell,” Gerstenmier said. “The morning of the trip, we soiled our
clothes and skin a little, not to get extremely dirty, for that would have been into simply a homelessness stereotype,
but to roughen up our college student’s skin, nails, and hair.”

For two days and two nights, the nine Davidson students slept in the streets, panhandled for money, and received meals
from soup kitchens or local religious organizations. At night, a local homeless person served as a “guide,” helping the students
find a safe place to sleep. The personal impact of the plunge varied among the individual participants, however, certain sentiments
resonated throughout the group.

“There is a certain rawness in feeling incomplete, out of your element, and knowing that you do not immediately have
the comfort of friends who know you,” Will Perreault ’06 said. Perreault said that the most disconcerting aspects of the
experience were the feelings of loneliness and rejection that he experienced during his aimless wandering and panhandling for money. “To
be perfectly honest, it was flat out disgusting to witness how many people did not even acknowledge the homeless population
by turning their heads quickly to avoid eye contact or crossing the street,” he said. “Even if people do not
choose to give money to someone who is panhandling, they can at least have the decency to say ‘hello,’ or
‘I am sorry, Sir, I can’t give you money, but can I help you find out about the shelter in
the community?’”

For Amanda Brown ’08, the experience helped foster a greater appreciation of the fundamental necessities and opportunities that many people
tend to take for granted. “It was very humbling to be so dependent on strangers for the basic necessities of
life,” she said. “I really enjoy being independent, so it was hard for me to feel comfortable asking favors of
strangers.” Despite its brevity, the plunge illuminated the detrimental effects of homelessness on a person’s emotional well-being, said Brown. “It
was very difficult for"To be ignored or disrespected by people I didn’t know just because I looked homeless,” she said.
“It was very lonely to panhandle since most people ignored me.” Brown’s interaction with her homeless guide David helped her
realize the full emotional impact that homelessness can have on a person. “David said that when he first became homeless,
he didn’t know anyone and was very depressed and miserable,” she said. “For the most part, there was plenty of
food for the homeless, but services for the emotional well-being of the homeless seemed to be extremely lacking.”

Interaction with real homeless people varied from student to student. Aside from interaction with the night-time guides, Gerstenmier did not
have much interaction with homeless persons. “The NCH asked us to pretend even to the homeless population in the city
that we were homeless, and not blow our cover to everyone,” he said. “So, to not blatantly reveal my cover,
I tended to avoid long conversations with the city’s homeless, something I now regret not having taken advantage of.”

Although many members of the group experienced feelings of loneliness and social rejection, they also emphasized the many ways in
which community members demonstrated kindness and compassion. “Despite the brief moments that were hard for our eyes to see, there
were moments of hope amid chilly nights and aimless days,” Perreault said. “Those who chose to help us, or even
smiled and let us know that we were fellow humans, gave us hope that humanity would prevail.”

During the day, Brown observed a positive community atmosphere in Dupont Circle, where chessboards were set up in one corner
of a nearby park. “Homeless and non-homeless people would interact as equals and play chess,” she said. “No one was
judging and it just seemed like a very nice social scene, especially for people who didn’t have anyone else.”

Perreault said that although his personal experience with panhandling was largely unsuccessful, D.C. organizations seemed to effectively assuage the hunger
needs of the homeless population. “I was surprised by the services that existed outside of individual programs,” Perreault said. “For
example, churches in the area were a very reliable source of food by bringing prepared meals to the local parks
during meal hours. It was apparent during our time in D.C. that hunger was usually met within a few hours.”

The NCH requires that plunge participants sleep on the streets, rather than in homeless shelters, so they are not taking
a bed from someone truly without a home. “There was a greater sense of urgency when it came to shelter,”
Perreault said. “Although there are many shelters in the area, they often do not have enough beds to meet the
needs of the entire city.”

Firsthand exposure to life on the city streets enabled Gerstenmier to learn about the great distances homeless people must travel
to obtain the services they need. “There are very few places in the city that provide all the services a
homeless person would require,” he said. “Therefore, they are forced to walk miles and miles all around the city to
get food, shelter, clothing, health services, and other essentials.”

While the experience provided a valuable glimpse into the daily struggles facing homeless people, Perreault said that it is impossible
to know what it is like to be on the streets living day to day. “Yet I think it is
safe to say that through our momentary condition of homelessness, as well as the 48 hours of deliberate focus on
this social issue, we are able to at least better understand the plight of the homeless,” he said.

This year, there were three other Alternative Breaks as well. The groups traveled to two sites in North Carolina and
one in Georgia to take part in service projects. Brian Creech ’05 and Hannah Legerton ’05 led a group of
students to Pembroke, NC. They assisted the Riverway project in Robeson County, which after having lost over 10,000 jobs since
NAFTA was instituted in 1994, is now the poorest county in North Carolina.

Another Alternative Break trip, led by Jordie Poncy ’06 and Sarah Caitlin Mattingly ’06, traveled to Asheville, NC, where they
worked with Mountain Housing Opportunities, an organization that sponsors home repair and construction projects for people in need. In Asheville,
the group took down a ramp from a family whose father had recently died from cancer and reconstructed the ramp
as well as a porch and stairs for another family.

Will Scheffers ’06 and Kelly Williams ’06 led the fourth Alternative Break trip to Atlanta, GA. They worked with Project
Open Hand, delivering prepared meals to AIDS victims and people with other debilitating illnesses.
