By Curis SCHMADER Staff Writer

Many critics charged Quentin Tarantino’s “Kill Bill, Vol. 1” with being a soulless rip-off, a hyper-violent exercise in genre-raiding with
thin dialogue and no characters to justify its flash. In a sense, these accusations had some merit; not many of
“Vol. 1”’s admirers claimed that it was anything but a marvelous pastiche of the conventions of Japanese genre cinema, blaxploitation
flicks, and Westerns. But now “Kill Bill, Vol. 2” has arrived, and it dispels many of the criticisms levied at
“Vol. 1.”

The second installment of Tarantino’s revenge epic features dialogue that, while not worthy of “Pulp Fiction,” attempts to do more
than merely advance the plot. Stretches of the film are downright contemplative, though often in so stylized a manner that
Tarantino seems to be winking at the audience. Take, for example, the reverent organ music that plays on the soundtrack
as Budd (Michael Madsen), brother to Bill (David Carradine) and former member of the Deadly Viper Assassination Squad (DiVAS), claims
that the Bride (Uma Thurman) “deserves her revenge.” That’s just more of Tarantino’s ceaseless myth-making; Budd’s scenes eventually tease out
a portrait of a larger-than-life low-life. He’s a man who, despite working as a bouncer at a strip joint and
living in an isolated trailer, remains a sly and cold-blooded killer.

Myth-making is indeed the agenda in “Vol. 2,” even more so than in the first volume. For anyone who has
only now stumbled upon these movies, or for anyone who saw the first volume and forgot the premise amid all
the bloodshed, here’s a short synopsis of the story so far: Bill and his assassins show up on the day
of the Bride’s wedding rehearsal, kill the wedding party, and leave the very pregnant Bride for dead—though in actuality she’s
only comatose. Four years later she wakes up from her coma and vows to kill each of her betrayers: Vernita
Green (Vivica A. Fox), O-Ren Ishii (Lucy Liu), Budd, Elle Driver (Daryl Hannah), and, of course, Bill himself. The Bride
did in Vernita Green and O-Ren Ishii in the first film, leaving Budd, Elle, and Bill as her targets in
the second.

Her victims from “Vol. 1” seemed more like iconic references to genres (blaxploitation for Vernita Green, Yakuza gangster films for
O-Ren Ishii) than characters. This trend continues in “Vol. 2” with Budd, who dresses like a cowboy on the skids
and who, with his chewing tobacco, shotgun, and Johnny Cash records, adds to the film’s Western ambience. (The soundtrack deserves
a nod here as well, with the spaghetti Western score perfectly suiting “Vol. 2”’s exaggerated emotional pitch.) Madsen’s performance is
superb; he plays Budd as the modern equivalent of a pathetic, washed-up gunfighter. Underestimated by the audience and the protagonist,
he still has enough cunning to place the Bride in the most daunting predicament she faces in either film.

The white-eyebrowed, white-bearded monk Pai Mei (Gordon Liu), who appears as the master in a flashback to the Bride’s martial
arts training, is another loaded reference to a B-movie genre—this time 70s kung fu. And Elle Driver is a femme
fatale who functions as the ultimate doppelganger, just as blonde, tall, and vicious as the Bride (and Bill’s new lover,
no less). Daryl Hannah plays her with a cruel arrogance that is apparent from the moment she saunters from her
car to Budd’s trailer. The fight sequence between Elle and the Bride would have fit right in with the carnage
of “Vol. 1”; it’s a thrilling showdown that ends with a gruesome, yet fitting twist.

Thrilling, that is, if you buy the East meets West mythology that Tarantino is selling. And in order to buy
this mythology, you have to buy David Carradine’s Bill. Inasmuch as “Vol. 2” has a soul, that soul resides in
two scenes bookending the film. In the first, Bill shows up for a “last look” at the Bride before she
weds; in the last, they rehash their turbulent relationship before one final face-off and a death scene for the pulp-cinema
ages. These scenes portray Bill as wheedling, charming, and above all in love with his own power—especially his power over
the Bride. He’s Quentin Tarantino dressed up as a kung fu cowboy, feeding us a line about how Uma Thurman
is the Superwoman. He’s either the biggest bullshitter you’ve ever encountered or the demigod of violence who legitimizes the Bride’s
killing spree by outlining the film’s twisted code of ethics: “don’t break the heart of a killer.”

If you believe that the Bride and Bill are potent distillations of the mythic gunslingers and samurai who roam our
collective unconscious, their story will be strangely moving at the last—both in spite and because of the ironic cloak of
references in which Tarantino wraps his tale of revenge. If, however, you think of them as the bankrupt creations of
an overhyped,Over-privileged fan boy without an original idea in his head... well, “Kill Bill, Vol. 2” isn’t the movie for
you.

Of the revolution: Art exhibit tended audience. Artists take an idea and choose the medium which lends to expressing this
idea. For White, sculpture has proved to be a fitting medium. He prefers pencil and tablesaw to paint, and sees
sculpture as a way to “express ideas/jokes/emotions that cannot be exactly put into words.” No matter how much the artist
enjoys his/her own work, White notes, it’s up to the viewer whether these ideas, etc., are worth a peruse of
the gallery. “If I’m doing a good job, the ideas emerge from the aesthetic. In the end, though, I don’t
care at all if someone has a completely different take on a piece, unless their interpretation is clearly half-baked. The
pieces in the gallery are just objects, nothing too special, and at their best, they have no specific agenda (even
if I do).”

So now the question remains: did he do a good job? Is “Taxi Drivers of the Revolution” worth a cruise-through?
In White’s case, all signs point to ‘Yes’, and here’s why: Fitting a collection of sculpture into Smith gallery’s small,
somewhat claustrophobic rectangular space is itself an art. White’s combination of standing and hanging sculptures defeats this spatial challenge. White
both varies and unifies this collection, so as to keep the viewer engaged and interested. While White’s works incorporate elements
ranging from hair-filled test tubes to pearl-wearing cow bones, in a strange way the show makes sense. A common viewer
response to these works was: “I just want to touch it.” You might think twice about pawing the fur in
“1993 Combover” when you hear that it comes from a deer he killed back in ’93. If it weren’t for
the glass encasement, you might also like to get under the red fur carpet in the “Tower” (a work which
features an undulating massage-like device that has incited numerous interpretations—mostly naughty).

White’s odd sense of humor successfully resonates in these works. A grisly bone protrudes a Target picture frame in “My
Tumor Has a First Name,” and the bone returns in “Aghast, with Pearls.” Beyond just laughs, his choice of objects
(both found and manipulated), along with titles, and overall composition—attest to the highly intelligent, and well-crafted care that he put
into the works and viewers can’t help but admire each and every nuance.

Please note that the annual student show opens in the VAC on Thursday (with a reception from 3-5 pm, i.e.,
FOOD). You’d be amazed to see the art your friends have hanging up there and maybe if you show up
you could guilt trip them into attending your piano recital.

Apartment For Rent
New 1 bedroom Garage Apartment in a quiet upscale neighborhood 1 mile from Davidson’s campus
* new appliances
* designated parking space
* private entrance
* deposit required
$600 a month unfurnished
(704) 896-7962, ask for The Lowders

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2004

‘Oops...’: comedy show for all ages
By Steve KALISKI
Senior Staff Writer

In search of a wacky warm-up to Spring Frolics? Looking for a laugh without having to bear a sensible storyline
and an intellectual message? Still in mourning over Will Ferrell’s retirement from “Saturday Night Live?” Aching for something funny? Unfortunately,
you may be out of luck. Although any half-informed patron of the Davidson arts should be anticipating the upcoming “Oops...”
sketch comedy show “Who Says That?” with an eager eye, the troupe’s official website lowers all expectations with, “So it
will be funny? Well we can’t make any promises... funny is a really subjective term. What is funny to one
person can be completely tragic to another.”

But who we kiddin’? This week’s production of “Who Says That?” promises to be nothing if not sensationally absurd and
off-the-wall hysterical. After all, “Oops...” president Ryan Hastings ’05 cites some of the lampooned topics of the show as, “the
Union Cafe, ham, the wonderful world of S&M fetishes, breakfast, the Jennifer Grey classic movie ‘Dirty Dancing,’ sleepovers (not the
college kind, but the kind you had when you were 10), airlines, psychotherapy, classic bands from the 70s, and mimes.”

Although “Oops...” is known around Davidson as an exclusively improvisational comedy troupe, “Who Says That?” is actually the second sketch
comedy show in their brief, four-year history. Back in 2001, when they still bore the illustrious title “Oops, I Crapped
My Pants,” the notorious jokesters performed the similarly elaborate “Boxed-in.” To clarify, sketch comedy largely does not involve the potluck,
hit-or-miss spontaneity of such improv formats as “Whose Line Is It, Anyway?” Think more of “Saturday Night Live,” in which
the sketches are scripted, rehearsed, and guaranteed to entertain.

In fact, “Oops...”ers have been crafting “Who Says That?” for most of the year. Hastings says, “Earlier this year some
members of the troupe expressed an interest in writing some sketches, so we took advantage of that desire and started
writing. We would meet once a week to read through new sketches, comment on them, and re-work parts.” The process
has yielded a compact show with an extensive variety of topics. “Some of the sketches were inspired by improvisations that
we had done in shows or rehearsals, and other ideas came from wherever it is ideas come from,” says Hastings.
“In the end we came up with about fifteen sketches. Out of those sketches, we have chosen ten to be
in our show. The authors of the selected sketches include Hastings himself, Ryan Arnold ’06, Anna Jones ’06, Thomas Lodato
’07, Annie Wadman ’06, and Jeff Wright ’07. Hastings credits Arnold for the show’s title, owing it to “his constant
talent for saying something inappropriate, off-the-wall, and sometimes completely stupid. But, he would always respond immediately with the phrase: ‘WHO
SAYS THAT?’ It caught on.”

The title “Who Says That” beat out several potent alternatives, such as “The Portrait of an Artist and a Baked
Ham,” “Talking Muffins,” “American Idolatry,” and “Moist?!”

But don’t be fooled. Although some may mistake “Oops...” as a simple forum for fun and games, each performance teaches
the troupe something new about the art of comedy. Melanie Farmer ’06 says of the upcoming show, “It’s a new
way for us to look at comedy. Improv is very immediate, and what happens is spontaneous and exciting, but this
gives us a chance to craft the comedy more and to develop more complete characters.”

“Who Says That” is on Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m. in Cunningham Black Box Theatre. Tickets will be sold
at the door for $3. “Immature Audiences Only” will be admitted. Don’t take that literally.
