THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS | WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2004

2004 Major League Baseball Playoff Preview

American League

Vaunted offense will bring a championship to St. Louis

By ROSSY DEMURO
Staff Writer

This weekend was full of playoff drama in Major League Baseball, as both the final AL and NL spots were
wrapped up in the final days of the 2004 regular season. On Saturday, the Cubs were statistically eliminated from playoff
contention with a loss to the Atlanta Braves. That ended one of the worst weeks in recent memory, in which
the Braves and the spoiler Cincinnati Reds beat the Cubs time and time again. Also on Saturday, the Giants gave
up seven runs in the ninth inning to the NL West Champion Dodgers and lost 7-3 to fall a game
behind the surprise Astros in the Wild Card race. The next day, they were completely eliminated when the Astros beat
the Rockies 5-3 to clinch the Wild Card berth. In the AL, the Angels and A’s headed into a head-to-head
weekend series tied atop the West, and the Angels clinched their first division title in 18 years after rallying for
three runs in the eighth on Saturday.

I believe that St. Louis will represent the National League in the World Series this year. They have an unbelievable
core of hitters, including Albert Pujols, Scott Rolen, and Jim Edmonds, all three of whom are legitimate MVP candidates. Not
only that, but they have one of the best starting rotations in baseball. Matt Morris, as usual, heads the group.
Great seasons have also been turned in by Woody Williams, veteran journeyman Jeff Suppan, and the relatively unknown Chris Carpenter,
who is in the hunt for the Cy Young Award in the NL. Jason Marquis has also had a breakout
year for the Cards this year after an unheralded career in Atlanta. Also, the Cardinals have a deep bullpen, which
is a benchmark for any playoff-quality team. Set-up men Julian Tavarez, Steve Kline, and Ray King have all blossomed in
their roles. Closer Jason Isringhausen is among the toughest to beat in the ninth inning.

In the American League, all four teams seem to be coming in with definite question marks. The Yankees have had
evident pitching questions all year. Can Jon Lieber be an effective playoff starter? What role will Tanyon Sturtze fill? The
Red Sox have bullpen issues: closer Keith Foulke does not throw effectively enough to close down tight games consistently. Schilling,
Wakefield, and Martinez can turn in great outings consistently, but what happens after they leave? A shaky Red Sox bullpen
is a big question; Curtis Leskanic cannot hold close games at Yankee Stadium or the Metrodome. The Twins seem to
have the least number of problems coming in, but they are not the strongest contender in the still-deep AL field.
Johan Santana has been fabulous, and Brad Radke has resurrected his career. However, the Twins don’t have the solid lineup
to make a deep run. The Angels also have starting pitching issues; can Jarrod Washburn, Ramon Ortiz, and John Lackey
take them all the way? Luckily, the Angels do have Vladimir Guerrero, arguably the best player in baseball, as well
as Garrett Anderson, an underrated Darin Erstad, a solid core of infielders, and a good bullpen, led by hurlers Scott
Shields and Frankie Rodriguez. Because of this, I believe the Angels will win the American League this playoff season, and
meet the Cardinals in the World Series. The Angels are a good ball club, but the Cards will prove to
be too much thanks to great performances by Pujols, Edmonds, and Rolen.

Chipper and Smoltz were around in ’95 for the Braves’ last World Series Championship.And they are hoping to lead the
Braves again. The Braves won’t fail again.

By Wilson McCrory
Sports Editor

On Tuesday, ESPN.com unveiled who its 17 baseball analysts believed would be the 2004 World Series Champs, and how many
picked the Braves to win it all? Not a single one. No one even bothers to write the traditional “How
will the Braves choke this year?” article anymore. Instead, it just goes without saying that the Braves will find some
way to waste away their postseason berth.

Still, every year I manage to convince myself that the Braves will break their string of postseason disappointments and finally
pull through for their second ring since 1995. Each year it seems the lineup has been slightly tweaked for the
better, and that the Braves have learned from past failure. And every year, I wind up watching someone else celebrate
after the final out.

But yet again, I tell you that this year will be different because this combination of Braves is not the
stagnant group of players that has driven their unprecedented string of division titles over the past thirteen years. No one
expected the Braves to even be in the playoffs this year, as Atlanta was picked by most experts as no
better than third in the NL East, behind defending champ Florida and big-spender Philadelphia. With cost-cutting mandates from ownership, the
Braves lost Maddux, Sheffield, Lopez, Castilla, and Marquis, to name a few, from a year ago. Their esteemed replacements included
J.D. Drew, Mark DeRosa, Johnny Estrada, Jaret Wright, and John Thomson.

The Braves lived up to the doomsday predictions early, as they looked like one of the worst teams in baseball
in the first half of the season, limping to a 37-40 record at the end of June. But somewhere before
the All-Star Break, the Braves started to put it together, and they ended up running away with yet another NL
East crown. And so they enter yet another October as the same old story, yet they are not the same
team that has collapsed so many times before.

The Braves no longer have future Hall-of-Famers at the top of their rotation, but Maddux and Glavine never performed up
to their abilities in the postseason. Atlanta will ride on the arms of former castaways looking to prove themselves in
Wright, who went from the San Diego trash pile to Atlanta ace, and Mike Hampton, who is 12-2 over his
last 16 starts.

The Braves' offense is more balanced than ever before, as Atlanta no longer relies on the long ball to score
runs in spurts. The Braves hit 238 homers in 2003, as opposed to 178 this year, but those power hitters
were shut down by the likes of Kerry Wood and Mark Prior in the playoffs. Instead, the Braves now rely
on slap hitters like Estrada, Rafael Furcal, and Marcus Giles to keep runners on base throughout the game and keep
the pressure on opposing pitchers.

But the most important thing about this Braves squad is that it doesn’t take its spot in the playoff field
for granted like its predecessors. Instead of a veteran team that knew the season started in October, this team is
a bunch of guys that had to scrap to get to play another round of games. And somewhere in the
midst of that 162-game schedule, the Braves had to find a team identity and character that they never had to
develop in years past, characteristics that will come to benefit them in the tough situations they will inevitably face in
the postseason.

So while others may acknowledge the Braves as merely making their mandatory and lackluster showing in October baseball, this really
is the team that can finally win it all.
