12 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2004

The Phoenix were unable to penetrate the Wildcat defense; they were held to just 58 points.

Davidson defense protects home record with victory over Elon

Despite 19 points by McKillop, Cats fall to ETSU to remain winless away from Belk

By Wilson McCrory
Staff Writer

In many ways, the past week of Wildcat basketball seemed like a continuation of a dubious pattern to the 2003-04 season; Davidson lost a close SoCon contest to North Division frontrunner ETSU on the road, then rebounded with a convincing victory at home against the Elon Phoenix on Saturday.

Against ETSU on Wednesday, the Wildcats battled back from a nine-point deficit late in the second half, going on an 11-0 run to take the lead at 68-66 with just over a minute to play. Unfortunately, the 'Cats were again unable to produce in crunch time, as Davidson committed a crucial turnover on the next possession to lose the lead for good at 69-68. ETSU then went on to make six free throws in the final minute to clinch the 75-70 victory.

The loss was another tough fall for the 'Cats, who dropped to 0-10 on the road, including 0-4 in Southern Conference play. As guard Brendan Winters ’06 noted following the game, “It can be very frustrating to have not won a game on the road, but we’ve been in every conference loss so far... We just need to learn how to close out and win games on the road if we expect to have any chance at making the NCAA tournament.”

In the contest, the Wildcats actually limited the Buccaneers to a 41 percent shooting percentage, but 20 Davidson turnovers and only six trips to the free throw line doomed the Wildcats. The Buccaneers, on the other hand, took advantage of their charity stripe advantage, making 15 of 21 free throw attempts in what would prove to be the difference in the game.

Davidson then returned home on Saturday, defeating first-year SoCon foe Elon (5-13) in the Hall of Fame game at Belk Arena. The score was close for much of the first half, but Davidson used a 22-5 run to create a 37-22 advantage at the break. In the second frame, Elon got to within nine points three times but never got any closer as Davidson cruised to a 72-58 victory.

The Elon game in particular highlighted what head coach Bob McKillop believes has been an upward trend in the past month, in which the team has taken strides of improvement on both the offensive and defensive ends of the court. “When you go as hard as we do every day,” said McKillop, “the improvement will come. Davidson in the past has been noted for its strong play in January and February... and our offensive and defensive efforts are nearing what we want.”

In the Elon game, for example, the Wildcats held the Phoenix to an abysmal 33 percent shooting percentage, well below the team goal of 40 percent. For the season, on the other hand, the team has given up an above-average 44 percent field goal percentage. Furthermore, as McKillop noted, “The ability to develop an inside game, and also to be able to post up guys like Nick...”

Player of the Week
Mark O’Hair ‘04
Wrestling
Hometown: Alexandria, VA
Major: History

O’Hair was recently named Southern Conference Wrestler of the Week for his 3-0 record over the weekend. After dismantling his VMI opponent with a pin on Friday, O’Hair went a combined 19-0 in two major decisions against Chapel Hill and UVA on Saturday. His record for the season now stands at an impressive 15-4.Booker (’05) and Brendan Winters have really helped our offense. A team can’t be consistent if it relies on the three-pointer, and the ability to get the ball inside has always been a hallmark of the Davidson program.” The Wildcats have struggled at times this season to get easy buckets inside, instead relying on the three-point shot for much of the offense. Against Elon, however, the frontcourt trio of Logan Kosmalski ’05, Ian Johnson ’06, and Conor Grace ’05 carried the load in producing 41 points of total offense. The Wildcats next play on the road Wednesday night against Georgia Southern, a game which was postponed from its original Tuesday night start due to the snow throughout the region. This Saturday, the ’Cats will return to Belk Arena to host UNC Greensboro at 7 p.m.

’Cats make it four straight in home win vs. Charleston
By Erin Delk
Senior Staff Writer

Despite a dismal first half in which the ’Cats were down by double digits, the women’s basketball team clawed their way back to victory Saturday afternoon against College of Charleston, 65-51. The win gives the Wildcats an 8-3 record in the conference, moving them into second place behind UT-Chattanooga. In the first meeting, Davidson soundly beat Charleston by 16 points on the Cougars’ home court with stellar defense and important contributions from the bench. The same goes for their second match-up, at least in the second half. In the first, the ’Cats slacked on defense, did not recover on their press, and took poor shots without working it around on offense. Courtney Laird ’04 and Lindsay Shade ’04 both described the first half as “just plain ugly.” With 3:40 left in the first, head coach Annette Watts got so frustrated with her team’s performance that she subbed in an entire fresh five. The bench made an immediate impact, bringing the deficit to within five at halftime. The Wildcats regained their composure in the second half and tied the game at 36 all at the 17-minute mark. Five minutes later, Davidson went on a 21-7 run, catching Charleston and gaining the lead for good. The ’Cats began to execute their offenses and move without the ball, creating nice backdoor opportunities. Ashley Hallsted ’04 led the ’Cats with 14 points for the game. Their defense, though, was where they won the game. Davidson kept the Cougars to just 17 points in the second half, shooting a dismal 25% from the floor. Their scramble defense forced several steals near mid-court, converting into key transition points. As Shade remarked, “To win even when it’s ugly is the sign of a good team.” Laird agreed, “Our team is calm and composed; we had the presence of mind not to get scared when we were down by double digits. With each game, I get more and more excited about the possibilities for this team.” As long as the icy weather doesn’t stop them, the Wildcats will travel next to Georgia Southern on Saturday.

Emily Callahan ’05 takes a free throw against Charleston on Saturday. She finished with seven points in Davidson’s 65-51 victory.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Undefeated at home so far this season, Saturday’s game against Elon was no different for the men’s basketball team. Although the box score indicated incredible offensive efforts from Logan Kosmalski ’05 and Brendan Winters ’06, who both scored over 20 points, it was the defense that stole the show. Davidson alternated between a 1-3-1 zone (pictured above) and a tough man-to-man defense. In doing so, they held the Phoenix to just 29 percent shooting in the first half and 33 percent for the game. The ’Cats will need to continue this stellar defensive effort when they play away this week at Ga. Southern if they hope to find that elusive road victory.