_ The Davidsonian News

First Years head off-campus for parties
By Liz Barry
Staff Writer

College policy restricts first years from attending parties at Martin and Patterson Court before First Night Down. However, the line of permissibility becomes blurred when it comes to freshmen attending off-campus parties. According to the Patterson Court Council Bylaws, “Upperclassmen are not permitted to invite first year students to off-campus functions until after First Night Down.” The wording of the by-law sparks confusion because rather than explicitly barring freshmen from attending off-campus parties, it only addresses the role of upperclassmen in inviting them there.

“It’s a little ridiculous to restrict freshmen from attending off-campus parties as a means of preventing early recruitment.” - Wally Wiggins '07

An anonymous sophomore asserts that many upperclassmen, including those associated with Patterson Court organizations, are either unaware of or choose to ignore this policy. “Whether direct or indirect, invitations are happening and freshmen are coming to off-campus parties,” he said.

The reasoning behind this policy is two-fold, said Director of Residence Life and Associate Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano. First, having freshmen at off-campus parties inevitably leads to early recruitment for fraternity and eating-house members, giving certain organizations an advantage. Wally Wiggins ’07 argued that early recruitment is inevitable. He says that as soon as freshmen step on campus they will have interaction with upperclassmen affiliated with Patterson Court organizations through classes, sports teams, and other campus activities. “I think it’s a little ridiculous to restrict freshmen from attending off-campus parties as a means of preventing early recruitment. Recruitment starts as soon as the kids get to school. It’s unavoidable,” Wiggins said.

Furthermore, allowing first years to attend off-campus parties during the first few weeks of school may pose a safety risk because they lack the support network that on-campus parties provide. “You as a freshman are putting yourself at much more risk if you go to an off-campus party,” said Patterson Court Advisor Joy Hamm.

During orientation, first years receive information about First Night Down policies from their hall counselors, Director of Public Safety and Police Fountain Walker, and other sources in order to avoid confusion. Walker said that the First Night Down policies should not discourage healthy interaction between freshmen and upperclassmen. Walker added that, contrary to common misconception, first years are allowed to visit upperclassmen friends who live on Martin Court and off-campus, as long as the visit is not during a party. Hamm acknowledged the vague nature of this by-law and said that it and other laws may be looked at by the Patterson Court Council for further clarification.

CASES, COFFEE HOUSES & ROASTERY
Bring your Davidson ID and receive a FREE Port City Java Iced or Brewed Coffee for the month of September
Pastries * Muffins * Bagels
Free Wireless Internet for All Customers
We're open: Mon-Fri 6 a.m., Weekends 7 a.m.
9930 West Catawba Ave., Cornelius
Near McAlister's Deli - Exit 28, off I-77

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2004

Students watch cable television in their room.

College gets new cable provider
By Lauren Law
Staff Writer

The college has signed a five-year contract with Campus Televideo, which replaces Adelphia as Davidson’s new cable television provider. Although the cable in dorm rooms was approved in order to enhance the standard of residence life, the decision continues to be a source of dissent and debate among students, faculty, and staff. The debate came to fruition this past January after the Committee on Campus and Religious Life, headed by Dean of Students Tom Shandley, passed the proposal due to complaints from minority and female students that majority and male students were dominating show selection in the lounges and the Union. Hall lounges were also becoming additional housing for the Freshmen class. Jack Hubbard ‘06, President of the Junior class, also lobbied heavily for cable through SGA. Some members of the community are still concerned, however. Shandley said, “I still have some concerns about [the impact on the community], and I hope I...am wrong... One of the joys of being at Davidson is the community, students interacting with each other. If that breaks down, then [the decision] will have hurt this place.” Some students expressed dissatisfaction with the future payment policy as well. 

see Cable, page 5

Ranking, from page 1

The gap in finances stems largely from Davidson’s endowment of $330 million, which lags behind other top schools. Fourth-ranked Wellesley enrolls 2,300 students and holds an endowment exceeding one billion dollars. “We’re playing with the big boys,” says Shandley.

The faculty and administration, while excited by Davidson’s rank, prefer to emphasize the work that won the recognition. “I personally feel that external reviews affirm the strength of a college,” says Ross, “but we take more pride in what we’re doing than being recognized.” Professors agree. “Personally, I like being able to teach small classes and work with students on individual research projects,” says Psychology professor Greta Munger. “The rankings capture some of that, but not everything.”

U.S. News is the premiere college ranking system, relying primarily on statistical data such as graduation rates and SAT scores. “To the extent that you can measure quality, they’re accurate,” says Linda LeFauve, a member of Davidson’s Institutional Research Department. “U.S. News verifies information extremely well.”

Still, the U.S. News ranking system has its limitations. Its emphasis on academic reputation allows for some subjectivity. Also, ranking schools for overall quality goes against the multidimensional college experience. “A particular college might be the best choice for one student, but another college might be a better match for a different student,” says Chemistry professor Felix Carroll. The sum-total rankings fail to segregate the separate departments within each school, along with other factors affecting college life. Every school has a profile that might include particularly strong or weak departments. “Places that don’t rank have strengths, and places that do rank have strengths,” says Registrar Hansford Epes.

While the ranking system has its limitations, the positive publicity can only help the school. “Many of us share a skepticism about the rankings but like to see Davidson in a high place,” says English professor and Davidson graduate Randy Ingram. “That high place puts us in a national, rather than regional, context.” “I try not to think about whether I could be admitted to Davidson nowadays,” he adds.

“Many students will use the ‘rankings’ to guide them in their college searches,” says Vice President and Dean of Admission & Financial Aid Nancy Cable, speaking on all college ranking systems. “Being among the most highly-respected, academically-vigorous, and nationally-recognized colleges and universities is a position that helps very able future Davidsonians identify us as a high-quality choice that they ought to consider.”

Other experts agree on the importance of rankings. “Students generally have an impression of where to look before the rankings, but U.S. News helps them narrow down potential schools,” says LeFauve. “More than anything it gives confirmation to people who have already made up their mind,” says President Bobby Vagt.

Not all students, however, place equal importance on rankings. Davidson’s top-ten rank had varying impact on current freshmen’s decision to commit. “I was aware [of the ranking] and it’s obviously good,” says Mike Nevi ’08, “but I knew Davidson was a good school from other sources.” “It’s a source of pride,” according to Nick Skipper ’08. “You can say you go to the number-seven school.”

Davidson’s rank in the top ten places it among the nation’s elite liberal arts colleges. Within the faculty and administration, there is little preoccupation about moving up or down a spot or two. “It’s not a rat race,” says Dr. Epes.

The greatest beneficiaries of the U.S. News ranking may very well be students currently enrolled at Davidson. “Recognition adds to students’ education while they are here and it certainly adds to their pride,” says Dean Shandley. “It also helps us get Davidson’s name out there to employers, graduate schools, and professional schools.” No one looks to benefit more than current seniors. “I don’t follow rankings too closely,” says Trenita Brookshire ’05, “but hopefully it will help me get a job.”