The Davidsonian,

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2004

13

from Men’s, page 16

Davidson’s continuing dominance on the boards, as the ’Cats out-rebounded UNC-G 42-31 on Saturday after posting a 42-32 rebounding advantage over the Eagles on Wednesday.

“Our big guys have been playing with a lot of confidence and pride lately,” commented McKillop, “and our guards have also been doing a great job of getting them the ball on the offensive end.”

After a match-up with the Citadel last night, in which Davidson secured their first road victory, the ’Cats will return home to Belk Arena on Saturday at 7 p.m. to host SoCon rival College of Charleston, looking to avenge a tough road loss to Charleston from earlier in the year.

Think of the benefits:

Wanted: Class of 2008 Wildcat Handbook Editor

Be the first to see the newest crop of freshman faces, and be the one to give them the lowdown on all things Davidson.

* A free hand in editorial and design work under the professional guidance of the Office of College Communications
* A nice addition to any resume portfolio
* A way to make a mark, leave a legacy, explain the territory.

Candidates for this position should:
* Have experience in print publications
* Have knowledge of design software
* Plan to be in the Davidson area during June and July

Send resume and cover letter to Meg Kimmel at mekimmel@davidson.edu
Application deadline February 13, 2004

SPORTS

photo by Patrick Coman

Weighing just 141 pounds, Matt Leonard ’06 shows off his strength.

’Cats unable to topple foes in reunion weekend losses

BY Mike CHAPMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson wrestling alumni returned to campus this weekend to watch the Wildcats host a tri-meet against conference rival Chattanooga and Duke in Belk Arena.

Sitting restlessly and fidgeting in their seats during every match, the former ’Cats filled up an entire section and created a great atmosphere for the competing teams. Although the ’Cats suffered losses to both opponents, the reunion was a positive experience.

“It was nice to have the alumni there as well as the large number of students that came to watch us,” said co-captain Adam Sperling ’04. “That’s what wrestling a home match is supposed to be about.”

Davidson, now 0-4 in conference play, struggled early against No. 25 Chattanooga, losing 46-0 in the opening match of the day.

Although the loss was disappointing, there were many close individual matches that could have gone either way.

Patrick Coman ’06 faced an opponent ranked No. 19 in the 125-pound weight class, losing only 4-1 in the opening match. Jim Avola ’07 faced a top-twenty opponent as well, losing 9-6 at the 133-pound class. Sperling had one of the closest matches, losing 5-3 at 157 pounds.

Davidson’s second match of the day against Duke followed the Chattanooga-Duke match, in which Chattanooga comfortably handled the Blue Devils in a 26-15 victory.

Duke appeared to have the match easily won until the 157-pound match-up, in which Sperling scored with less than a minute to go to pull ahead, eventually riding out his opponent to seal the win. Marcus Boyd ’07 carried the momentum from Sperling’s match into his 165-pound bout, pulling off a 12-3 major decision, the eleventh win of his rookie season.

Duke controlled the mat in the last four weight classes to tally a 35-7 win, evening their record to 4-4. Davidson fell to 3-7 overall.

“It was disappointing to lose, but it wasn’t like we wrestled the worst we possibly could,” commented Sperling. “We didn’t have a good day, but in any event, we were still able to hang with Chattanooga, who is ranked in the top 25 in the country.”

On a positive note, Mark O’Hair ’04 was selected as the SoCon wrestler of the week for his 3-0 performance against VMI, UNC, and UVA two weekends ago. He is the first Davidson wrestler to have acquired that honor this season. His record dropped to 15-6 in the 174-pound class after two close losses this past weekend.

“The team morale is still strong, and the intensity in the room is consistently high,” added Sperling. “Now that we know that we are capable of competing with good teams, it makes everyone look forward to each competition.”

The ’Cats travel to Franklin & Marshall this Saturday to compete in another tri-meet with Drexel.

Wildcats finish first in mile and third in 3000-meter run

By Jackson HERLONG
Staff Writer

The indoor track squad made the drive up to Boone, NC this weekend for the Appalachian State Indoor Invitational, competing in a field of 24 teams over a period of two days in the Holmes Convocation Center.

Two seniors led the men’s team for the weekend, with Greg Scott and Ben Gaspar turning in high-level performances in the mile and in the 3000 meters, respectively. Scott captured the mile title for Davidson, beating out the other 52 runners entered in the event. His win with a time of 4:20.5.

Three other Wildcat runners also competed in the mile: Dave Bunge '04, with a time of 4:37.2, Rob Whited ’07, who clocked in at 4:51.8, and Drew Hazen ’07, who finished at the 4:53.9 mark.

Gaspar nabbed third place in the 3000 meters, with a time of 8:55.5. Two other Davidson runners finished in the top half of the event: Austin Mercadante ’06 at 9:28.7 and John Doehring ’07 at 9:30.5.

Only two women runners made the trip up to Boone. Jamie Glenn ’06 and Michaela Carr ’07 both competed in the 55-meter dash.

The team’s next test comes this Saturday at the Carolina Classic in Chapel Hill, NC.