8 THE DAVIDSONIAN Arts & LIVING WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2004

D.O. it the outdoors way: a mark on campus life

By Katie HUNTER
Staff Writer

After a stressful week of class and carrel confinement at Davidson, it’s not rare to witness some students literally “climbing
the walls.” Just ask Ben Ashton ’08, who completes his work-study by supervising the rock-wall climbers in the office of
Davidson Outdoors.

“It’s a good resource to have,” Ashton says of Davidson’s climbing wall, available for use by any Davidson student. Open
from Monday through Thursday, the wall is a popular spot for those seeking to air their frustrations and have some
fun. It ranges in height from 10 to 20 feet, allowing students to choose how challenging to make their ascent.

Sometimes, though, “getting away from it all” requires spending time off of the Davidson grounds. So where does one go
for a chance to escape the grind and get back to nature? Students are now able to do so with
a quick visit to the website or office of the college’s ever-expanding Davidson Outdoors program, which provides details about various
excursions offered throughout the semester.

“D.O. trips are a great way to get to know new people, forget about school, and enjoy the outdoors. You
can really be present in the moment on our trips,” says Jamie Shelton ’05, the current president of Davidson Outdoors.
Some of the upcoming ventures include a beginner climbing course from October 16th to 17th on Pilot Mountain, as well
as a Parent’s Weekend Day Hike around Davidson. Later in the year, featured outings include a Mt. Rogers backpacking trip
and an Everglades canoeing expedition, which has become a popular winter-break retreat over the last few years.

“My trips to the Everglades have been incredible,” said Shelton. Even though he acknowledges that he’s “always been a hiker,”
Shelton is quick to point out that “most of our trips are at the beginner level, so if it’s your
first time, all the better.” He credits many of his own outdoor learning experiences to D.O. “Even at Davidson, the
full range of outdoor activities is easily available, so I’ve learned to paddle while I’ve been here as well.”

Laura Beach ’07, the program’s co-president, agrees. Although she has always loved the outdoors, Beach states that “D.O. has given
me a lot of skills to help me enjoy it more, as well as opportunities to learn fun new stuff
like climbing and kayaking.”

Outdoor opportunities have not always been so readily available. As a student, Ed Daugherty, ’85, a Davidson alumnus and the
current director of Davidson Outdoors, became frustrated that the school didn’t offer more for those wanting to experience the local
wilderness. Due in part to Daugherty’s efforts, Davidson Outdoors has become much more than the modest “outing club” that years
ago occupied a small room in the Union Atrium.

“The Club owned about six sleeping bags, and most of the equipment was never returned once it was borrowed,” recalls
Daugherty. As Union Board chair for the club, Daugherty teamed up with the Residence Life Office in 1984 and helped
to create the school’s initial Odyssey trip. Davidson Outdoors became an extension of that program, eventually acquiring two full-time staff
members and a much larger office on the Union’s base floor. D.O. now boasts a very active participation level. The
program tallied 1,976 active accounts last year for students who attended trips, used equipment, tackledThe Challenge Course, or attended Odyssey.
In the Odyssey’s first year, Daugherty managed to gather a group of 13 freshmen for that initial pre-orientation program, which
lasted a total of 3 days. Now, the Odyssey has around 180 participants, who come out for one of the
three week-long excursions offered during the summer. Incoming first-year students tackle the great outdoors by either backpacking along the Appalachian
Trail or completing an intensive service project. “The Odyssey made such a huge impression on me. I had the best
experience,” reports Anne Weaver ’08. Though it provides all first-year participants with a chance to get to know each other
before orientation begins, Odyssey prompts some of the more eager returnees to become involved with D.O. themselves. “After my experience
on Odyssey, I would definitely consider becoming a trip leader,” says Weaver. “Both my leaders were amazing,” she recalls, “and
I think it would be awesome to make the same lasting impression on incoming students.”

Getting a bit of shut-eye before a day of hiking. Becoming a trip leader, or “TL” in D.O. shorthand, is
hardly a walk in the woods. The position involves a sizable time commitment and an excess of positive energy. One
of the four requirements for becoming a TL is a semester-long Wilderness Leadership Course. The course involves weekly meetings and
a few group excursions. TLs are also expected to keep up current certification in Wilderness Advanced First Aid and CPR,
as well as complete a driver training course. All these provisions, however, are necessary for ensuring the enjoyment and safety
of everyone on the trips. Everyone who ventures out on a D.O. expedition, however, is expected to pitch in. “Another
philosophy we have in D.O. is that we want to give trip participants the skills to be able to do
a lot of the essential tasks on their own,” says Beach. “Everyone takes responsibility, which makes it a lot more
fun and rewarding.”

“D.O. trips are a great way to get to know new people, forget about school, and enjoy the outdoors.” -
Jamie Shelton

So what about those folks who are in charge? Many people consider D.O. trip leaders to be “hippies,” as Ivey
McAliley ’08 put it. “We do kind of stand out in our flannel and overalls,” says Beach. Though she understands
that the TLs are often considered a Davidson subculture because of “similar philosophies and attitudes toward life,” as Beach terms
it. “We try to be pretty inclusive, and all have friends who aren’t involved in D.O. stuff.” Shelton agrees. “The
outdoors is a great place to get to know people, because there is a clear common goal and no distractions.”
He praises the Odyssey as his “best group experience, because of the amazing sense of community among the leaders.” “Something
about going into the wilderness and relying on each other makes us let go of a lot of pretenses and
just be ourselves,” suggests Beach. Most obvious is the fact that it allows you to escape all the stress that
can build up around classes and even social life here.

Before you pack up and head out, though, be sure to take along some nutritious grub. Beach suggests that you
use the D.O. “dehydrator,” which dries food making it longer lasting and lighter. “My next new food experiment is dehydrated
watermelon,” says Beach excitedly. “I expect it to have the consistency of the gummy orange slices they used to sell
in the Union.” Sounds like good eating.
