‘The DAvIDSONIAN

Humor

RLO charged with hazing
Freshmen forced into mandatory, humiliating activities

BELK—Sources reported Monday that the Davidson College Residence Life Office (RLO) is under “serious investigation” for hazing activities. RLO may
face formal charges as early as next week for subjecting first-year students to a variety of activities described as “discriminatory,”
“humiliating,” and “stupid.”

Derek Freeman ’07, a first-year student from Orlando, Florida, was the first to bring forth charges. “I was sitting in
[Sigma Phi Epsilon’s] house meeting listening to the PCC anti-hazing talk, and it all seemed so familiar. Then suddenly it
hit me—we’ve been systematically hazed by RLO since day one.”

According to various sources in the first-year class, within hours of arriving at Davidson, freshmen are forced to endure “agonizing”
rituals to which upperclassmen are not subjected. Examples of hazing include being forced to pose for “idiotic” photos, participate in
embarrassing games, and stand in really long lines.

“The Freshman Olympics were so humiliating,” moaned Jack Lennox ’07. “I completely fell on my butt during Crab Soccer, and
there was this really hot girl who just completely cracked up. I felt so dissed, but what was I supposed
to do? I thought that I just had to endure what RLO put me through to prove myself worthy of
Davidson. But now I realize that it was hazing, and I have rights. Maybe I’d have less trouble getting a
date if all those girls hadn’t seen me trip during the shoe race.”

The hazing doesn’t stop at Orientation, according to Katie Tiernan ’07. “I couldn’t believe it when they said that freshmen
lived on separate halls from the rest of the students. We’re clearly being treated in a sub-human manner—especially those of
us they stick in Rich.” Tiernan pointed out that various freshman-only activities, like “pointless” weekly hall meetings, demand an “unreasonable
period of time” from freshmen and thus also qualify as hazing.

“We're also the only ones who have to attend those stupid Davidson 101 classes,” added Kelly Davis ’07. “The college
website says that if we’re coerced to attend meetings that upperclassmen aren’t required to be at, that’s hazing. So why
are we the only ones being forced to answer questions about whether we're comfortable with masturbation? If that doesn’t cause
‘severe emotional stress’ I don’t know what does. RLO has a lot to answer for.”

Sources at RLO have defended their practices, saying that the Davidson “freshman experience” is a valuable part of a student’s
first collegiate year. “The Orientation activities, Davidson 101 classes, and freshmen hall programs are all designed to welcome our new
students,” claimed area coordinator Kathy Lee King. “Any humiliation they may experience as a result is strictly an added bonus.
I mean, come on, they're freshmen.”

For more information on hazing, please see http://www2.davidson.edu/studentlife/involved/pcourt/pcourt_docs/NMem_BillofRights.pdf

Repetition: free
Repetition: $3

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24, 2004

Stop by our table outside Flowe between the hours of 9:30 and 11:30 a.m. to sign up and receive a
number. All proceeds will benefit St. Jude's cancer research center and Outreach. Heels can be swapped for running shoes if
desired. Ten dollar entry fee includes free Walk of Shame for Cancer T-shirt! Brought to you by Student Health.

www.activitiesboard.org/readme

Left: Walk of Shame T-shirt concept. Right: A crossing guard looks on at last year's Walk.

Issue #7,000,018 | Mar. 17 - Mar. 23 | Carnegie Mellon's leading source of chronic back pain since 1895 -
brought to you by the Activities Board

International Students Rule Campus With Iron Fist During Break

Over break, while all of the American students were home or elsewhere on vacation, the international students who did not
have the time or money to get home last week sprung into action and established dominance over campus. Tired of
being treated like foreigners, the international students and their organizations claimed and ruled over various places on campus. Latino students
raided and seized Si replaced by cheap apartments in Miami and Commie bastards. A look at Carnegie Mellon's readme has
been replaced with soy.THE YOWL isn’t the only Ovzon ripoff around college campuses these days. Here’s a bit from fellow
humor publication readme of Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA. Read on!

Asian students staged an overnight robbery of the Software Engineering Institute dressed as ninjas and samurais, stole nuclear secrets, and
built a Great Wall around the University Center. Yada yada yada Asian joke.

Nerd "Totally Checked Out” by High School Girls

According to sources, Dave Snyder, junior computer science major and all-around nerd, was checked out by at least three 15-year-olds
and two 16-year-olds over spring break. They then all took naps, or siestas, as they like to say. They have
also overrun Carnival Committee and have changed the event, renaming it Carnival. The booths will be French students surrendered and
died during some freak heat wave. Then they built a statue of liberty on the courtyard.

SELF HELP

Ask a girl talking to her roommate on a cell phone

Dear Girl Talking to Her Roommate on a Cell Phone:
I’m lactose intolerant and having a hard time coming up with enough meal options on campus. What would you recommend?
-Hungry in Hart

DEAR HUNGRY:
Hey babe! How are ya? Yeah? You’re where? You have class in ten minutes? Oh that’s right, I totally forgot
it was Tuesday.

THE YOWL
Your Davidsonian Humor Section

CONTRIBUTING THIS WEEK
Lindy Baldwin
Colin Eagan
Mark Murray
Alex Sibley

Students with story suggestions or interested in writing should contact the editor at coeagan@davidson.edu

Oh my god—I know, that’s so like me! You have poly-sci at 11:30 right? YES Sellers is such a cutie.
Seriously, put me in the front row! Uh huh. Uh huh. No, I was just calling to see what’s up.
Do you want to go grab a bite or something later? What? I can barely hear you, this connection is
absolutely horrible.

Dear Girl Talking to Her Roommate on a Cell Phone:
I’m taking five classes right now and it’s really taking its toll. I wish I didn’t have to, but my
parents said they wouldn’t be able to pay for my last semester since my dad lost his job. I just
don’t know what I should do. Can you help?
-Trapped in Tomlinson

DEAR TRAPPED:
These stupid cell phones! Ok that’s better. Yeah, I can hear you now. Yup, I just got out of Brit
Lit. I don’t know why I’m taking it, I think it’s required. Oh don’t worry, I still haven’t bought any
of the books. Oh my god did you hear what happened to Jen last night? YES! Did you see that
coming? I know, I totally did not expect that from him! Oh completely, I was just like ‘we are in
a fight.’

Dear Girl Talking to Her Roommate on a Cell Phone:
I’ve been working at the Ada Jenkins center every week for a few months now, and there’s this one little
boy who just keeps acting out. I know there’s a deeper reason, but I just can’t seem to reach him.
What would you do?
-Worried in Watts

DEAR WORRIED:
Yeah but whatever, guys are all the same. Do you think they were having sex? No, she never said anything
to me. But she was over there all the time. And oh my god, did you see what she was
wearing Friday? I mean hoe bag. No, much shorter. Uh huh. Uh huh. OH MY GOD! Is that you at
the other end of the hall? HI! Do you see me waving? Yeah! Ok, I guess we can hang up
now. See you in two seconds! Ciao babe!

A Girl Talking to Her Roommate on a Cell Phone is a syndicated columnist appearing in over 250 college papers
nationwide. To reach A Girl Calling Her Roommate on a Cell Phone please smack her upside the head.

Roommate clearly studying for GRE

HART—Senior Ben Clampton has clearly been studying for the GRE, sources close to the Hart 319 resident reported Tuesday. “We
knew something was weird when he came in yesterday,” commented roommate Zeb Stevens ’04. “He said he’d been in a
hugger-mugger jostling with a mountebank about the précis of a tome rife with pleonasms. All I could say to that
was ‘wha’?”

Tensions escalated when Clampton declared himself “regent plenipotentiary” of the living room, exclaiming, “Gevalt! What gemutlich-bereft Grand Guignol is this?
Would it kill us to own something puce?” Although he hates to “niggle over nugatory,” Clampton demanded at dinner that
his roommates “mitigate their masticating,” whereupon he relegated their television set to the position of “technological incunabula.”

His improved vocabulary has also been noticed by Clampton’s girlfriend, Mary Spence ’04. “Ben said my shapely posterior was altogether
callipygian, especially when I engage in tarantism,” said Spence, “which I guess is nice.” Clampton later described Spence as both
“libidinous and lubricious,” noting that he really hopes the couple can engage in “post-collegiate concubinage.”

In the meantime, his roommates can’t wait until he finishes the GRE. “Christ,” commented roommate Brad Duff ’04. “I mean,
what the hell.”

Clampton declared that if his roommates don’t stop being such contumacious cockalorums he might well be forced to absquatulate. “There
are those who say I’m loquacious,” Clampton noted. “But I just call it an insatiable love of the sesquipedalian.”

THE YOWL IS INTERVIEWING WRITERS FOR NEXT SEMESTER. SELF-STYLED HUMORISTS OF ALL KINDS ALL WELCOMED. PAID POSITIONS ARE AVAILABLE, CONTACT
COEAGAN.
