THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, January 21, 2004

photo by Peter Roady
Nick Booker ’05 lines up a shot while Brendan Winters ’06 rises above the competition.

Road woes continue to plague men’s basketball in SoCon loss to Wofford
By Wilson McCrory
Staff Writer

On simple inspection, the Wildcats’ record going into this week’s game at ETSU looks like a tale of two teams:
the ’Cats are an undefeated 7-0 in the comforts of Belk Arena but a dismal 0-9 on the road. That
stat is not as all-telling as it seems, but there does appear to be evidence of decidedly different levels of
performance at home and away. While several of those nine road losses came against the likes of national powers Duke,
North Carolina, Seton Hall, Georgetown, and Charlotte, the Wildcats are also 0-3 on the road in SoCon play against Wofford,
College of Charleston, and UTC.

As point guard Kenny Grant ’06 said following Saturday’s loss to the Wofford Terriers, “I think every team is different
at home as opposed to on the road. There’s nothing like having the crowd on your side, almost like a
sixth man... On the road you have to search inside and bring [the motivation] out of yourselves, which is something
that we need to do, and are learning how to do.”

Coach Bob McKillop doesn’t believe that the 0-9 mark on the road indicates a decided weakness, however, noting, “In each
of those losses [in Southern Conference play], we were just a couple of possessions from turning those losses into victories.
In this early season, each of the players is still learning and adjusting to different roles.”

That developing cohesiveness was put on display last week against Western Carolina, a team that features the nation’s leading scorer
in Kevin Martin. Martin was impressive in the contest, scoring 36 points on 12-27 shooting, but the Wildcat defense held
the Catamounts to a 37 percent field goal percentage on the night. Davidson was hit with foul trouble early and
often in the game, and the team had to play much of the first half without top scorers Brendan Winters
’06 and Logan Kosmalski ’05. Despite their absence, the Wildcats closed out the first half with a 38-28 lead and
quickly built that advantage to 19 in the early minutes of the second half.

“I think any of us can step up on any given night,” stated Grant following the victory, in which six
different players scored eight or more points. “It all starts with our senior captains, Jouni Eho ’04 and Terrell Ivory
’04, neither of whom are starters. Their attitude has been great all year as far as continuing to work hard
and to keep everyone else working hard. They won the Western game for us, maybe not because they played the
whole game, but because they gave us much-needed energy and confidence that carried us even when we were in foul
trouble.”

In the ’Cats’ weekend match-up with Wofford, however, Davidson was unable to control David Eaton or the rest of the
Terriers, who shot 54.2 percent for the game. Eaton nailed seven of eight three-point attempts, including the game-breaker with 18
seconds remaining to give the Terriers a six-point advantage. Davidson trailed the entire game, as the Wildcats shot a horrendous
3-22 from beyond the arc, including a 2-10 mark from top-scorer Winters. Still, Davidson nearly staged a furious comeback in
the final minutes, cutting an 11-point lead down to three before Eaton hit his seventh three-pointer of the day to
close out the game.

The loss was a frustrating one for the Wildcats, who missed out on reaching the .500 mark for the first
time this season and were yet again denied their firstroad victory. As Grant commented, “The way we fought back was
great, but I feel that if we had fought like that from the beginning, we wouldn’t have needed a miraculous
comeback to get back into the game. A loss is never easy to take, and the Wofford game was no
different. Still, I think the positive that came out of it was that we saw what we can do if
we stay focused and play each play as if there’s a sense of urgency.”

Davidson will get yet another chance to grab its first road victory this Wednesday against ETSU before playing host to
Elon on Saturday in Belk Arena.

Wrestling dominates in W&L tournament with multiple wins
By Mike Chapman
Staff Writer

While the majority of the campus was sleeping in and recovering after the festivities of self-selection night, the Davidson wrestling
team was up bright and early this past Saturday to compete in hand-to-hand combat at the Washington and Lee Tournament
in Lexington, VA. Coming off a tough 35-8 loss to local SoCon rival UNC Greensboro two days earlier, the team
rebounded to win the six-team tournament by a comfortable margin. Davidson tallied a score of 96.5 points, beating runner-up Cumberland
by over 20 points, marking the first tournament the ’Cats have won under second-year head coach T.J. Jaworski, who has
steadily been instilling an unwavering work ethic and quiet confidence into his wrestlers. The result of his impact is obvious.

“To put into perspective our team’s improvement, last year we didn’t have one individual champion at this tournament,” said co-captain
Matt Leonard ’06. “This year we won it convincingly as a team, and we had six champions.” Of those six
champions, two had to wrestle a fellow Davidson teammate in the finals. Drew Carey stared at a familiar face in
Patrick Coman, as the two Davidson sophomores squared off for the 125-pound final. Coman came away with a pin at
the 6:21 mark after a solid match. Travis Hunter ’06 found himself in a similar situation as he and Jim
Avola ’07 competed for the 133-pound title. In a tight, well-fought match, Avola squeaked out a 4-3 decision over his
older teammate.

“Going into the tournament, our goal was to win it as a team and put as many guys in the
finals as possible,” said Leonard. “We were confident entering the tournament and our performances backed us up.” The team achieved
their goal, as four other Cats went on to win their respective weight classes. Leonard, who finished his rookie season
last year as the team leader in wins, carried the team’s momentum into his 141-pound final. He too met a
familiar opponent. Instead of a teammate, however, he faced the wrestler who had beaten him in the same tournament the
year before. Leonard wrestled smart.

Matt Leonard ’06 was one of six Davidson wrestlers to place first over the weekend.

Player of the Week - Katie Hamilton ‘07
Women’s Basketball
Hometown: Lilburn, GA
Major: Undecided

With two outstanding performances, Hamilton led the ’Cats to back-to-back wins this week against conference opponents. In doing so, she
averaged 17 points, 3.5 rebounds, and 3 steals per game. Hamilton currently leads all freshmen in the Southern Conference in
scoring.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Over the weekend, the Wildcat wrestlers turned in an impressive victory at the W&L tournament. In particular, Davidson grapplers twice
squared off in the finals of their individual weight classes. In the 125-pound class, Patrick Coman ’06 pinned Drew Carey
’06 to win his division, while Jim Avola ’07 out-dueled Travis Hunter ’06 in the 133-pound class. The impressive performances
sparked the rest of the team, as the ’Cats went on to secure another four victories in higher weight classes.
