THE DAVIDSONIAN

Homecoming, from page 1

great way to connect alumni to the college community,” Merrell said. Merrell cited scheduling conflicts as his reason for the
decision. “Due in large part to conference scheduling, this year there are only four home football games, one of which
falls over fall break, another of which overlaps with Discover Davidson, the Admissions Office recruitment weekend.” The remaining two games
are a game on November 13 and this one. “In my judgment, the November game was too late for this
weekend because of the unpredictability of the weather at that time,” he said. “It was the best of bad choices
and the college regrets it.”

Merrell pledged to become more aware of religious holidays when planning major school events. “The Alumni Relations Office intends to
work closer with the Chaplain’s office to plan major events and to avoid any future conflicts with major religious holidays
whenever possible,” he said.

Bradberry also expressed concern for the implications of the decision. “We should have informed student organizations about our dilemma ahead
of time,” she said.

The Jewish student reaction

The Davidson Jewish population expressed a wide variety of opinions in reaction to the circumstance. “I was very surprised and
disappointed by the decision, but I understand why they had to do it,” said Jewish Student Union (JSU) Co-President Kelly
Kopeikin '05. Others expressed concern about the situation. “My main concern is that it is a big holiday and that
the Alumni Relations Office didn’t consult us beforehand,” said JSU Co-President Jess Heilweil '05.

Heilweil and Kopeikin agreed that better communication is necessary in preventing these occurrences from happening in the future. “Communication between
the Alumni Relations Office and the JSU would have improved the situation,” said Kopeikin. “We want people to feel comfortable
in talking to us when these situations arise.”

Some students felt that the situation was understandable given the relatively small Jewish population on campus, as well as the
support that the college has given the organization over the years. Andrew Schapiro '05 felt that it was more important
to look at the support and recognition that the Davidson community has given the JSU over its three years of
existence rather than the mistakes that have been made. He believed that Merrell issued a sincere apology as well as
a valid excuse for the overlap of the two.

Carrie Levy '05 agreed. “As roughly four percent of the campus, we have to be realistic that the world will
not revolve around us,” she said. “It feels wrong to demonize Davidson when the administration, and the chaplain’s office in
particular, have been nothing but welcoming and supportive to us over at least the past three years. I think that
instead of concentrating on how we’ve been wronged about Homecoming, we should instead spend our energy on how we can
help people — Jews and non-Jews — that make up our community,” Levy said.

Others, however, were not quite as forgiving. In a letter to Matt Merrell, Brian Orland '07, who is abroad in
India, said, “To schedule Homecoming on this day is an affront to Jewish students and faculty at Davidson, and it
betrays the spirit of Davidson’s mission statement ‘to have an openness to and respect for the world’s various religions.’”

Several faculty members are also disappointed. “It’s disappointing because I know the college says it is committed to diversity, and
furthermore, the college mission statement stipulates that the college should have an openness to and respect for all of the
world’s religions,” said Associate Professor of Music and JSU faculty advisor Neil Lerner. “I cannot believe that anyone has acted
out of malice, which leaves ignorance of Yom Kippur’s significance as a likely culprit. It’s time for the college to
act in a more sensitive way if it intends to follow its own mission statement,” Lerner said.

Other student organizations also expressed their concern for the selection. The Religious Life Council, composed of student representatives from and
advisors to all of the religious life groups in the Davidson College community, wrote a letter to President Vagt. “We
express our disappointment with the college’s decision to schedule Homecoming to occur on Yom Kippur, which is the"most holy day
of the year in the Jewish tradition,” said the members of the Religious Life Council. “While we recognize that this
decision is irreversible at this late date, we unanimously urge the college community to have integrity with its stated purpose
by being open to and respectful of the religious concerns of the entire student body in planning such events in
the future.”

Future scheduling goals

Although conflicts have never occurred on such a large scale as Homecoming, events such as exams, lectures, and semi-formals have
been scheduled in contention with religious holidays. Mari Cohen ’05 said, “Last year, my eating house scheduled its semi-formal on
Rosh Hashanah. Since this was an event that was specifically designed to welcome a part of the campus community (in
this case, the freshmen), the eating house board refused to change the date.”

Despite qualms with the college’s scheduling policies, however, Davidson does not observe a procedure that puts religious events before school
activities.

“The college has not made it a mandatory policy that no events can be scheduled on religious holy days. I
agree with that policy, but I also think that we as a community need voluntarily to be respectful of everyone
in our community by taking care not to schedule college-wide events on such days,” said College Chaplain Rob Spach.

In order to prevent these sorts of occurrences from happening, Spach introduced an interfaith calendar to the college last summer.
“The purpose of the calendar is simply to provide the college community with easy access to dates of special significance
to religious communities, so that those dates may be avoided in program planning and in academic scheduling,” he said. “The
calendar was created last year because this type of issue had arisen a number of times in the past several
years.”

Last fall, the College Committee on Religious Life (CCRL) and the Ethnic Diversity Committee requested that Spach compile a calendar
of religious holy days that would include days in traditions that are represented in the college community. Spach prepared a
draft of that calendar and it was reviewed by the CCRL and the Religious Life Council in the spring. The
calendar was sent out last June to all of the college’s vice presidents and administrators.

Many community members feel that the calendar should now be a serious consideration when the college plans events. “The people
in charge of scheduling need to consider how their decisions may impact the community,” said Lerner. “We ask [that the
administration] communicate strongly to faculty and staff the importance of consulting the religious life calendar distributed by the Office of
the Chaplain when planning college activities,” said the Religious Life Council in the letter that it sent to President Vagt.

The website location of the interfaith calendar is pending. Spach is currently awaiting a reply from ITS about setting up
a link from the religious life “Welcome” page.

Bush, from page 1

Visitors who attended the town hall forum, while others screened visitors and directed traffic for attendees. Margaret Whipple, ’07, was
one of more than ten Davidson volunteers at the rally. “I really enjoyed getting to know other people from North
Carolina,” said Whipple, whose volunteer responsibilities allowed her to interact with many of the rally’s thousands of guests. “The support
for the president was tremendous, and it really pumped me up for the election,” she added.

College Republicans chairman Joseph Adams ’06 spent extra hours in Charlotte during the days leading up to the event, helping
with ticket distribution, last-minute phone calls, and travel arrangements for the presidential staff. While John Kerry enjoyed a sizable lead
in the polls among female voters, over the last two months President Bush has pulled almost even with Kerry among
women. Meanwhile, the president’s campaign trip to Charlotte focused on gaining more support from women. The L.A. Times reported: “Before
a largely female audience, he promoted his tax cuts as beneficial to female-owned businesses, and argued that the U.S. involvement
in Afghanistan and Iraq had improved conditions for women in those countries.”

Adams said, “President Bush passionately and cogently made his case to the women of North Carolina during Friday’s town hall
discussion.”

GRILLED CHEESE ~ VEGGIE MELT ~ VEGGIE BURGER ~ VEGGIE HOAGIE ~ VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP ~ VEGGIE RANCH WRAP ~
SWEET POTATO FRIES ~ CAESAR SALAD ~ FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE ~ HOMEMADE ORANGEADE, LEMONADE AND LIMEADE ~ VEGETABLE SOUP
~ Eatin ~ Take-out ~ 896-7743 ~ Mon-Sat 8-8 ~ Fri 8-9
