10 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS | as Panthers Assistant

By JACKSON HERLONG
Staff Writer

Dr. Shaw Smith, Davidson professor of art history, has the unique perspective of being both a fan and an employee for the home team. His role with the Carolina Panthers is Home Team Locker Room Assistant, meaning he prepares the uniforms and helmets and the like for the Panthers prior to their home games. This means that he gets to stand on the sidelines at the home games, but Smith describes the experience as “being at work,” rather than being a fan. Not to say, he isn’t a fan of the team or the game.

Smith grew up in Davidson, watching Davidson football games every Saturday he was home from his family’s traveling magic show. He served as the team’s water boy for a number of years and even got his father to get him some chalk so he could outline a gridiron in his front yard. Smith played club football at UNC and was one of the club’s founders. He and the other founders had a grandfather clause inserted so that he could continue to play until he was 33 (he attended UNC as a grad student until then). His wife, Ann Haley, is as passionate about football as he is; her father was an All-American at UGA in the 1920s, but turned down an opportunity to play for the Packers to become a judge in South Carolina.

Smith achieved his part-time position with the Panthers through Davidson equipment manager Dan Morphis, who taught him a lot and introduced him to Jackie Miles, head of Panthers Equipment Management Staff. When asked about what he was most looking forward to about the Super Bowl, Smith replied matter-of-factly, “Winning. You don’t do it just for fun.” He told his wife in July that he thought the Panthers would make it to the first round of the playoffs, and since they have passed that mark he has greatly enjoyed being proven wrong. Smith couldn’t predict an exact final score, but gave an estimate of both teams being in the 20s, with “the Panthers being on top, of course.”

He harbors no ill will to the Patriots; in fact, “I admire them because they were the underdogs two years ago, and they’ve been able to come back, which is very impressive in this age of salary caps and free agency. I really like their concept of team, and what I think of when I think of the Patriots is that two years ago, I was catching punts behind Baker with ex-Panthers punter Ken Walter, who had been recently cut by the Panthers and had a pregnant wife and no job. Eight months later, Ken was hugging [Adam] Vinatieri after holding for the winning kick in the Super Bowl.”

Smith makes sure to mention the other Panthers associates who have Davidson connections, a group of considerable size. Starting guard Kevin Donnalley played at Davidson before transferring to UNC and has spent the past three seasons with the Panthers. Teresa Jones, a Davidson grad who is a CPA in Charlotte, made the jump from Wildcat Cheerleader to TopCats, the Panthers’ dancing squad. Smith finds one of the most remarkable things about the Panthers and this season to be the “changing [sports] culture in the Carolinas. Up until now, it’s been all college basketball, but now the Panthers are showing everyone that the NFL isJust the greatest. The game requires you to give so much, but it gives so much back, whether you’re a player, coach, or fan. It’s one of the reasons we live in the USA.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2004

Women swimmers celebrate ‘senior weekend’ with 3 wins

Sara Laws '04 placed first in the backstroke in her last home meet

By ASHLEIGH FINN
Staff Writer

This past weekend, the swimming and diving team hosted a two-day tournament against arch-rival UNC Wilmington as well as Old Dominion and William & Mary. The tournament was especially significant because it was the seniors’ last home meet. The pool was packed both Friday evening and Saturday afternoon with friends and family, cheering on the senior athletes.

The women celebrated the weekend with victories over all three schools. The men’s team wasn’t able to defeat any of the schools but had some success in individual and relay events. Friday’s meet began at 6 p.m. and ran for a grueling three hours, with all four schools neck and neck. The women’s star players placed in the majority of their races and broke season-best and Davidson record times. Eli Trefzger ’07 placed second in the 1650 freestyle and lowered her own Davidson record to 17:32.94. Megan Hollar ’06 won yet another race in the 100-yard breaststroke.

Seniors Vanessa Witt and Sara Laws have been essential components to the Davidson swim team throughout their four years at Davidson. Laws began her last home meet with a season-best time in the 100 back. Trisha Blackwell ’05 also swam a season-best in this event. Witt took away a victory in the 400 individual medley. The women left on Friday slightly trailing UNC Wilmington.

The men showed some impressive results as well. Robert Koch ’03 placed in the top five of the 1650 race with a season-best time. Charlie Hunter ’03 also swam a season-best in the 100 backstroke with a time of 53.44. Brad Poole ’06, who has been an outstanding leader, finished top five in the 200 free.

Saturday morning began with the recognition of each of the senior swimmers. Family, friends, teammates, coaches, and president Bobby Vaught applauded the efforts and achievements that each swimmer contributed to both the team and to Davidson College at large. The women began with a victory in the 200-yard medley relay. Seniors were determined to end their last meet on home turf with a victory. Laws took a win in the backstroke, followed by Carrie Rafer ’04 in third and Leslie Cook ’03 in sixth. Trefzger splashed her way to yet another school record in the 500 free with a time of 5:06.13, beating the old record by a tenth of a second.

The men’s team was not as successful, but two underclassmen swam to season-best times. Mill Graves ’07 accomplished this in the 200 IM and Scott Foster ’07 swam a personal best in the 200 freestyle. Hunter’s success from the previous day was repeated in the 200 back where he ended his last race in second place.

With the impressive victory, the women demonstrated that they should be a force to contend with at the CAA Championship from Feb 18-21.

Seniors Joanie Gidas, Ashley Cain, Erin Rosintoski, Leslie Cook, Sara Laws, Becky Lyons, Vanessa Witt, Carrie Rafer, Kelsey Holmberg, Robert Koch, Mike Mazza, Charlie Hunter, and Beau Dasher all competed in their last meet at Davidson.