THE DAVIDSONIAN

TODAY'S NEWS

Prospective workload already tired of hearing about.

Your neighbors: Should you consider talking to them?

That pajama guy finally wears some pants to class
SEE PAGE 17

Anyone up for WaHo?
SEE PAGE 12

THE YOWL
Your Davidsonian Humor Section

CONTRIBUTING THIS WEEK
Mike Giglio
Hart 102
Mark Murray
Susan Robison
Bron Tennis

Senior thesis research pays off

WATSON - In groundbreaking scientific efforts taking place in the basement of Watson Science Complex this year, senior thesis researcher Morgan Cappell uncovered startling evidence about rat behavior in a study that brings an end to a decade-long scientific debate. Contrary to popular opinion, Cappell’s research shows that rats do in fact produce fecal matter on a regular basis. The problem of rat fecal matter has plagued the scientific community at large.

APRIL 21, 2004

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER
Humor Section
April 21, 2004

Rich white kids take stand against affirmative action, racial diversity — ‘Rich white kids have a lot to lose here’

SPRINKLE ROOM - With admissions season in full gear, the sensitive issue of affirmative action has again surfaced as a topic of heated debate on campus. As discussions on racial diversity become increasingly common on the Davidson scene, a new group of students has come together to make its voice heard on the issues. Rich white kids, an often-overlooked student demographic, gathered this past Sunday to establish their position on affirmative action.

“We've heard from almost everyone on campus about improving ethnic diversity, but people seem to forget about the people who are perhaps most affected by affirmative action,” said Peter Little ’05. “Rich white kids have a lot to lose here.” Little cites affirmative action, which the college has never officially supported or rejected, as a leading cause for rich white kids attending their second, or even third-choice colleges.

Many rich white kids oppose affirmative action on principle. “It’s the American way,” said Andrew Baker ’05. “You have to earn what you get. If minorities don’t like it, they should go to a Communist country like Russia or something.”

Proponents of affirmative action have argued that Davidson’s history as an all-white institution makes it more likely to admit white students, based on the legacy status of the children of alumni. This was met with stiff opposition from the rich white kids. “Davidson used to be all-male, and now the student body is more than half female,” said Katie West-Tomlinson ’04. “So that’s just not a fair argument.”

Affirmative action gives minority students an undeserved advantage over rich white kids, according to Ryan Knobloch ’07. “I worked really hard to get mediocre grades at the boarding school my parents sent me to,” he said. “Why should a black kid who doesn’t have those credentials be able to take my spot?”

Cappell noted at a press conference yesterday, “Researchers have long pondered the source of fecal matter that tends to mysteriously appear near rats. Most scientists believed the widely-accepted notion that fecal matter comes from a rat’s environment, but some radical thinkers alleged that rats are themselves capable of producing fecal matter.” Up until this year, however, the scientific community had not reached a consensus.

What are our topics of honors research?

- George Washington’s Brother: The Uncle of Our Country
- The Interpersonal Relationship Dynamics of the Cornelius Waffle House
- A report about my important topic: A real student's battle with procrastination
- Speed Bumps and Speed Humps: Sexism in Modern Road Paving
- The District of Columbia Self-Government Act of 1973: Why You Care
- Sliding Standards in Today’s Collegiate Journalism

Rich white kid Harwood Chambers ’06 opposes affirmative action.to take my spot? It would be unfair.” He paused, adding, “Shoot, I might have had to go to Emory [where his mother attended] instead.”

Kristen F’05 doesn’t really see what all the fuss is about. “Rich white kids have been going to Davidson since it was founded, and look how good things turned out. I don’t see why we need to change stuff around.”

“Besides, we need a good education,” added Barry Patterson ’06. “How else are we supposed to run our parents’ companies when we get older?”

Cappell’s team solved the mystery. In a paradigm-shattering experiment, rats were put in cages for an extended period of time, thus limiting their ability to exit as well as preventing other fecal matter-producing animals from entering. After a period of 24 hours, fecal matter had appeared in the cages. Cappell commented, “I thought to myself, this is not science. Divine intervention aside, we can’t help but to conclude that it is in fact the rats that produce this matter.”

Their finding of course has serious implications for society and the way we live in this world. For example, fecal matter can now be used to detect the presence of rats in places that we've previously been unable to detect. Area town’s person Little Jimmy’s claim that the rats pooped in the basement, for example, is now backed by credible evidence. Dr. David Ramsey is especially pleased with his student’s findings, likening Cappell’s effort to Watson and Crick’s discovery of DNA, or perhaps even Darwin’s theory of evolution. Ramsey remarked, “I predict that some religious groups may have difficulty in accepting this.”

Students prepare for Saturday’s fundraiser in front of Smith House. College Republicans, GSA team up for fundraiser

‘Humm,’ says campus

GLASGOW STREET—Many hands make light the work, right? Well that’s why President of the Davidson College Republicans Organization Brynna Carswell '05 and Adam Childs ’06, President of the Gay-Straight Alliance (GSA) organized a joint carwash to support the Mooresville Animal Shelter. The fundraiser, themed ‘Scrub ‘til you Drop,’ plans to raise enough profit to buy the shelter two state-of-the-art dog kennels and a new aquarium.

“There are a lot of homeless and hungry dogs, cats, and fish out there,” commented a somber Childs, “and I think it’s time we come together and take a stand against animal hunger.”

Carswell expressed optimism about the carwash, “Hopefully we'll help out some animals while at the same time demonstrating that not all Republicans are homophobes. Personally, I don’t have a problem with homosexuals. My hairstylist is gay, and I don’t mind him.”

Ben and Jerry’s ice cream has pledged to give free rainbow sherbets with every wash. “Scrub ‘til you Drop” will take place at the Smith House parking lot on Main Street this Saturday from 1-4. So bring in your car and enjoy a rainbow sherbet while the GSA and College Republicans wash away dirt, grease, and intolerance.

[write]

THEY

Looks nice on resumes for most fast food jobs.

CONTACT COEAGAN

BRIEFLY

Following last week's lottery, rising juniors George Thompson, Nitesh Paryani, Toby Green, and Jose Rodriguez have finally decided that they will indeed display all of their copies of the “Old School” DVD. “It was a tough decision,” said Green, “but it finally came down to what kind of punch it would have on our peers.” The collection includes three copies of “Zoolander” and three copies of either “The Matrix” or “The Matrix: Revolutions.”