(ain pus Pc y|

2/16 Student Union

Missing Property
Student reports that on Saturday, February 14th, while walking from the Union to Baker Sports Complex, they lost their cellular phone valued at approximately $150.00. The phone is described as a Nokia 6800, ash in color.

2/16 Student Union

Missing Property
Student reports that sometime between February 7th, 11:30 p.m., and February 8th, 1:00 a.m., they lost their cell phone while attending a party in the 900 room in the Student Union. The cell phone is described as a silver Verizon, valued at approximately $100.00.

2/17 Baker Parking Lot

Missing Car
Student reports that their black, 1992 Chevrolet Lumina was missing from Baker Sports parking area. The vehicle was last seen on Thursday, February 12th, parked close to the Motor Pool vehicles.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2004

Kouchner speaks about Nobel Prize-winning organization

‘Doctors Without Borders’ co-founder addresses challenges of ‘humanitarian intervention’

By Blair McGraw
Senior Staff Writer

Dr. Bernard Kouchner, one of the founders of the Nobel Peace Prize-winning Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders), spoke in Duke Family Performance Hall on Monday night.

The Dean Rusk International Studies Program helped to sponsor the appearance of Kouchner, whom many regard as the architect of “humanitarian intervention.”

In 1971, Kouchner was among the small group of French doctors who founded Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF).

The non-profit organization provides aid to victims in more than 80 countries for emergencies ranging from injuries from armed conflict to those caused by natural disasters, as well as helping those people who live in geographical and social isolation and therefore lack healthcare.

During the lecture, he spoke of his experiences at MSF and also of his other humanitarian efforts, including combating AIDS in Africa.

Kouchner described how he and other doctors were inspired in the late 1960s.

“We discovered that all of the rest of the world, apart from the rich countries, were suffering from starvation, lack of doctors, and medical care, among other things,” Kouchner said.

Kouchner spoke about the evolution of international medical aid, detailing how it used to be necessary to have permission from the government of another country to treat its victims.

Forty years ago, “you had no right to cross a border and help patients,” he said.

Kouchner described how eventually he and several other doctors began to enter other countries, even though they lacked permission to help.

TERRY’S TAXI

Serving Iredell and Mecklenburg County

24 Hour Service

Daytime: (704) 663-9411, (704) 663-9413
Evenings: (704) 663-9415, (704) 663-9812
If you need transportation to and from the airport, bus station, or other areas, call Terry’s Taxi
Over 50 years of service

LEARN TO EAT ITALIAN

Kouchner believes his efforts of spreading compassion “drew a perspective of patients without borders,” that helped to globalize medical care.

While by no means ignoring the still present AIDS epidemic, he gave the example of the price decrease of AIDS treatment from its early stages.

Compassion was an important theme of Kouchner’s lecture.

“It comes from you, it depends on you, and this is your choice,” he told the audience. “We have to take care of the people without theatre and university,” and that “starts with the medical field.”

Dr. Chris Alexander, Director of the Dean Rusk International Studies Program, said Kouchner appeared at Davidson chiefly through the Echo Foundation in Charlotte that had brought Kouchner in for its own annual awards banquet.

The public lectures committee, the East Asian Studies Program, the French and Political Science Departments, the Vice President for Academic Affairs, and Dr. Ozzy and Mrs. Patsy Reynolds also contributed resources for Kouchner’s visit.

One goal of Dean Rusk is to ensure “that every Davidson student gets an international education, regardless of major,” said Alexander. “Kouchner really does have something useful and important to say to members of all disciplines.”

Besides being one of MSF’s founders, Kouchner also served in France as Minister of State for Social Integration, Minister of State for Humanitarian Action, and Minister of Health.

United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan appointed Kouchner to serve as U.N. Special Representative for Peacekeeping in Kosovo in 1999.

Kouchner is the author of several books, the most recent being “Les Guerriers de la Paix” (Warriors of Peace), which, among other topics, describes the time Kouchner spent in Kosovo.

“PANINI” $4.99
FERRUCCI’S OLD TYME ITALIAN MARKET

Shops on the Green, I-77 Exit 28
704-896-3190 * www.ferruccis.com