14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2004

Cross Country unable to finish with strength at Regionals

By Pierce TRUMBO
Staff Writer

After disappointing results at the SoCon Championships two weeks ago, the men’s and women’s cross country teams competed in the NCAA Southeast Regional last Saturday at East Carolina with hopes to improve and finish the season off on a strong note. Facing many strong teams, neither team was able to make a tremendous impact on the national competition.

Brittany Crawford ’08 completed the 6K course first for the women, placing 55th overall with a time of 21:55—the first time all season that the team’s frontrunner was someone other than Kelly Fillnow ’05. Fillnow came in second for the team in 73rd place overall in 22:17. She was followed by Annie O’Donnell ’08 in 112th place (23:04), Ashley Griffith ’05 in 141st (23:44), and Carolyn Mohr ’06 in 145th place (23:53). For Mohr, it was the first time that she had broken into the top five all season.

The race was the most difficult of the season, as according to Fillnow, many teams were ranked in the top thirty nationally. Fillnow said, “We faced some great competition.” Fillnow also said, “We were without some of the top runners because of injury,” a fact that could not have made the race any easier.

Jonathan Baker ’06 and Nick Lehman ’05, the two captains for the men’s team, led the way for the Wildcats with places of 141st and 164th, finishing the race with times of 33:36 and 34:16 respectively. They were followed by Sam Morris ’08, who placed 167th (34:19), Lee Wheless ’05, who placed 174th (34:41), and Douglas Noreen ’07, who placed 176th overall (34:43).

Speaking of the team’s last place finish out of 29 teams overall in the region, Baker said, “I don’t think that finishing last was what anyone was hoping for at NCAA regionals... In our region, a great race is needed out of a couple of our guys to place higher.” Baker continued, “I think everyone raced as well as they could have, and with that I’m very pleased; there’s not more you can ask from [the] guys.”

Duke won the women’s regional championship and North Carolina State won the men’s championship.

Both teams have optimistic futures. The women, though they will lose several seniors including Fillnow, Griffith, and Anna Brew ’05, have a strong group of freshmen which should form a formidable squad in the years to come. Fillnow said, “We have an awesome freshman class that has already made an impact... [We’ll] definitely be in position to challenge for [the] championship again.”

The men will also be returning several key runners including Baker, Noreen, Morris, and Austin Mercadante ’06. Baker said of the future, “We are losing two seniors, but I think we have the potential to put together one of the strongest teams we’ve had in a few years next fall.”

Volleyball qualifies for SoCon tournament with split

‘Cats beat Furman, but lose to Wofford for the first time in fifteen years in last game of the season.

By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

The Wildcats split the last two matches of the regular season while qualifying for the Southern Conference Tournament. Topping Furman to break a seven-match losing streak and losing to Wofford for the first time in fifteen years put Davidson’s final record at 10-22, 7-9 in the SoCon. They are scheduled to play the number one seed in the tournament, Appalachian State University, in the first round of the conference tournament, to be held this weekend in Cullowhee, N.C.

The weekend started with an exciting victory over Furman. The first two games went one each way, as the Paladins pulled out their only game victory of the day on a machine-like .425 hitting percentage. The rest was a tooth and claw battle, as both of the next games went to Davidson 30-28. Game four saw 11 tie scores and 5 lead changes. “We all just really wanted to win and we did everything we could to ensure that we would beat Furman and go to the Conference Tournament,” says Jenna Dykstra ’07.

On the day, the Wildcats’ offense and de-of Davidson? The Office of Admission and Financial Aid will be interviewing for new Tour Guides! LEAD DAILY TOURS FOR PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS & PARENTS. MEET AT THE ADMISSION OFFICE (CORNER OF GRIFFITH & MAIN) TO SIGN UP FOR AN INTERVIEW BEFORE 11/24. ASK FOR JENNY. QUESTIONS? CONTACT KHOURY ASHOOH AT KHASHOOH@DAVIDSON.EDU OR AT EXT. 2969.

The offense and defense were both impeccably balanced. Liz Williamson ’07 led in kills with 18, followed closely by Erin Balak ’06 with 17. Katie Pierucci ’08 and Dykstra were the other two Wildcats in double-figure putaways. Captain Tam Gallen ’05 held down the defense with 26 digs, while four teammates also had more than ten digs apiece. Dykstra’s 13 digs, along with 59 assists, gave her her third triple-double this season.

Sunday, however, turned sour for the Cats. After taking the first game 30-24, the team fell short in three straight games. Wofford outhit Davidson in each of the last three games, holding them to a .032 attack percentage in the final game. Throughout the match, despite strong effort on critical points, the Wildcats could not capitalize on the gaps in the Terrier defense. Gallen, in her last home match, led all players with 29 digs and was aided by three other Wildcats in double figures defensively. Williamson notched a match-high 19 kills, and Dykstra led the squad in assists with 47. Dykstra says that the match was a “poorly executed” one. “Crucial points went the wrong way and we couldn’t keep it together.”

When Davidson played ASU during the regular season, the Mountaineers held relative control in a 3-1 victory. Dykstra calls them “a beatable team. We’re going into the tournament with the mindset that we can win it. It becomes a matter of execution and of how hard we will be willing to fight in games against ASU and then the next team after them.”

From Connolly, page 12:

...battling to avoid becoming “The Worst Team Ever,” a label ESPN.com recently bestowed upon the Bobcats. And while the Hornets’ owners were loathed by an entire region, at least they weren’t inept. Did you hear that many people calling the listed number for Bobcats tickets last week ended up dialing a phone sex hotline? Can you imagine that conversation? Hi, I’d like two tickets for next Friday. Would that be for the bondage show with midgets or the threesome with farm animals? Um, which one’s Emeka Okafor in?

Surprisingly—nay, shockingly—nobody really cares about the NHL lockout. The owners are all gazillionaires and the players have fled for greener pastures, now playing in beautiful, hockey-loving locales like Sweden and Switzerland—sure beats Phoenix or Nashville. In parts of this country where people actually like hockey (i.e., the Northeast and Great Lakes regions), there are phenomenal high school and college teams to watch. And in basically every other NHL city, you can go surfing or play golf all winter. Indeed, it really wouldn’t surprise anyone if Anaheim’s rink, Arrowhead Pond, becomes a popular fishing spot in the upcoming weeks.

For me, the most unnerving part of this fiasco is that the Stanley Cup, the oldest trophy contested for by professional athletes, currently belongs to Tampa Bay. That’s right, Florida. Beaches, mixed drinks, and old people. Absolutely frightening. I guess you could call this column my form of therapy. I feel like my (make-believe) girlfriend just broke up with me and I’m sitting by the door waiting for her to come knocking. But, I know deep down she’s gone. At least for a while—they always come back. The NHL will be back, we’re confident about that, but it looks like a long, lonely winter for hockey fans in places like North Carolina where we must qualify the word ‘hockey’ with either ‘ice’ or—deep breath—‘field.’ Screw it. I’m going to play golf.

VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - GRILLED CHEESE - VEGGIE MELT - VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE - SWEET POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD PLUS: FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE - HOMEMADE ORANGEADE, LEMONADE, AND LIMEADE. Bet you didn't think of us for vegetarian fare!

Soda Lil if Z.. a Bena Me, 104 S. ST. DAVIDSON, NC VEGGIE RANCH WRAP VEGETABLE SOUP Eat-in or Take-out. 896-7743

Sat-Thur 8-8 Fri 3-9