THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, MARCH 31, 2004

Haywood ’04 and Stonestreet ’04 rip forehands in their wheelhouse. With wins, men look strong going into SoCon matches

Slim 4-3 wins over UTC and SCSU give men momentum for late surge

By Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

After their loss to Furman a week and a half ago, the Davidson men’s tennis team was left still seeking
its first conference win of the season. They had one more chance last weekend to rectify their winless conference record,
hosting Chattanooga at the Covington Courts on Friday followed by a non-conference home match with South Carolina State on Saturday.
With their final home matches of the season drawing nearer, the Wildcats picked up two crucial wins—most importantly, their first
conference win—at home versus the Mocs and the Bulldogs, making the most of their home court advantage before they finish
the season with four straight road matches in mid-April.

The Wildcats kicked off the match with three great performances in the doubles competition. Rob Haywood ’04 and Donald Miles
’05 recorded an 8-3 win over the Mocs’ top doubles team; Jonathan Britt ’04 and Rob Gould ’04 defeated their
opponents 8-4 at number two; and Bryan Stonestreet ’04 and Russ Burns ’05 won their third match in a row
with an 8-5 victory at number three. Winning the doubles point was key for the ’Cats, as they are undefeated
so far this season when they win the doubles point and winless in matches in which they lose the doubles
point. More importantly, Davidson stepped up their level of doubles play against Chattanooga, playing what head coach Jeff Frank termed
“the best top-to-bottom doubles performance of the season.”

The singles competition was much less one-sided than the doubles. The Mocs elevated their game to win two of the
first three completed singles matches. Haywood, at number one, and Porus Jetli ’07, at position six, were the first Wildcats
to succumb to their opponents, each losing in straight sets. Miles, though, made quick work of his opponent at number
two, earning a 6-2, 6-4 victory to tie the match score at 2-2. Davidson went back on top with Britt’s
hard-fought 7-5, 6-3 win at number four, only to have the score tied again when Stonestreet fell 6-3, 7-5 at
number three. The only remaining match was on court five, where Burns was battling in the third set. After falling
behind an early break of serve, Burns kept fighting, breaking his opponent twice en route to winning the final three
games of the match. Burns’ 6-1, 1-6, 6-4 victory clinched the match for the Wildcats by a narrow 4-3 margin.
The coaches were pleased with the victory and especially the clutch performances of Britt and Burns down the stretch. “That
was a huge match for Jonathan, and Russ played an excellent match as well,” praised Frank. “[Winning that match] was
good for our team’s confidence—last year we lost a lot of 4-3 matches.”

With their first conference win in hand, the ’Cats hoped to carry their momentum into their battle with non-conference foe
South Carolina State. The Bulldogs entered the match against Davidson with an 11-2 record, including a victory over The Citadel,
who defeated the Wildcats earlier this season. The ’Cats once again started strong in the doubles matches, winning the two
and three positions 8-5 and 8-3, respectively, to earn the 1-0 lead. Haywood and Miles played well at the first
position as well, but they ran into a dominant team that is 13-1 on the season. Davidson carried their doubles
momentum into the singles competition, winning three quick matches at positions one, two, and four. Haywood made quick work of
his opponent, defeating the Bulldogs’ top player easily 6-2, 6-2. Britt played another strong match, dispatching his opponent 6-0, 6-0.
Miles’ match was slightly more challenging, if only for a bit of a mental lapse in the second set. Miles
eventually cruised to a 6-2, 0-6, 6-1 win. The Wildcats were fortunate to earn those three quick wins to clinch
the victory with an insurmountable 4-0 edge, because the remaining South Carolina State players handled Stonestreet, Burns, and John Bolton
’07 in straight sets, bringing the final margin to 4-3 in Davidson’s favor. “Jonathan played a great match against a
pretty good player,” commented Frank on Britt’s complete domination of the Bulldogs’ number four player. Britt haswon four of his
last five matches, tying him with Stonestreet for the team-leading singles record at 7-5. Frank also stressed the importance of
the wins over Chattanooga and South Carolina State, calling the performances “two good wins for us at a time when
we really needed to get some momentum going.” Now that the Wildcats have their first conference win and a little
momentum as well, they are looking to keep their winning streak alive in pivotal conference matches this week against Elon,
Georgia Southern, and Wofford, their final home matches of the season. Expect several more tight 4-3 battles, as the parity
in the Southern Conference this year is greater than ever. The ’Cats have shown thus far this season that they
know how to win the tight matches in which they struggled last year, and they must keep their undefeated record
in 4-3 matches alive in the coming weeks in order to challenge for the SoCon championship.

from Tennis, page 16

While disappointed with losing the doubles point, the ’Cats took advantage of every opportunity in their hard-fought singles matches to
win the first four completed matches and clinch the victory. Kate Levitt ’07 was the first Davidson woman to close
out her match, as she continued her impressive run this season with a 6-1, 6-3 win at number five, her
sixth in a row. Meghan Fillnow finished next, rebounding from a tough defeat at Charleston to register a 6-3, 6-2
victory at the number three position. Hatch pulled out a crucial first set tiebreaker in her match at number six,
after which she continued to pressure her opponent, earning a hard-fought 7-6 (4), 6-3 win. Leading 3-1, Davidson needed only
one more victory to clinch the match, and Kelly Fillnow answered the call. After falling behind 4-1 early in the
first set, Fillnow remained positive and applied relentless pressure on her opponent in her comeback. She won five straight games
to take the first set, then continued to roll in the second set, defeating Chattanooga’s top player 6-4, 6-3. “They
regrouped, went back out in singles, and took care of business,” praised Cantrell of the team’s play.

With the Chattanooga match behind them, Davidson departed Saturday morning for Tennessee and a match with the East Tennessee State
Bucs. The Wildcats did not have as much trouble with the Bucs, cruising to the early 1-0 lead with victories
in all three doubles matches. The singles matches featured much of the same success for the ’Cats, as they won
four of the six matches in straight sets. Only Patterson and Powel were forced to three sets, and Powel was
the only Davidson player to lose on the afternoon, retiring from the match after spraining her ankle early in the
third set. Patterson’s match was perhaps the most exciting of the day, as she went toe-to-toe with her opponent, exchanging
big shot after big shot on her way to the win. Head coach Caroline Price called the match “intense, high
quality, and world-class tennis.” With the 6-1 victory, the team as a whole played “one of their best executed matches
as a team,” according to Cantrell.

Against Appalachian State on Sunday, Davidson continued to roll. The ’Cats won all three doubles matches to gain the early
lead, and they followed up with straight set wins in all six singles matches. Notably absent from the lineup on
Sunday was Powel, who will likely miss up to a week with her ankle injury. As a result, Levitt—who stretched
her team-leading record to 14-4 and her winning streak to eight—and Hatch moved up in the lineup, and Borkowski stepped
in to take over the six spot. “Sarah has the experience [to hold down that position] after playing six last
season and several times this season as well,” said Cantrell.

The Wildcats have two more conference matches this week against Elon and Western Carolina before traveling to Charlotte on Saturday.
Charlotte should be a tough match, as the 49ers defeated Charleston earlier this season. After they battle Charlotte this weekend,
the 'Cats have only three matches remaining until the conference tournament. With three consecutive conference wins and seven victories in
their last eight matches, the women are on a roll heading toward the SoCon tournament, picking up momentum with every
match.
