THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Volleyball goes 0-3 in weekend Liberty Invitational

By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

Volleyball returned from the Liberty Volleyball Invitational in Lynchburg, Virginia this past weekend with three more losses in spite of some solid play.

The weekend Invitational is the last of the early season tournaments for the Wildcats; they will not see tournament play again until the Southern Conference tourney in November.

The first match of the Invitational pitted the Wildcats against the host Liberty Flames. After an initial loss in the first game, in which the Flames held the ’Cats offense to a .000 attack percentage, the ’Cats showed life in the second game before losing five of the final six points for a 30-26 loss.

The third game, unfortunately, went all Liberty’s way to give the Flames a 3-0 victory. Liz Williamson ’07 led both teams in offense with 15 putaways, while captain Tam Gallen ’05 and Erin Balak ’06 held up the defensive end with 11 and 9 digs, respectively.

The second match against Tennessee Tech began in similar fashion, with a 22-30 defeat on a weak .067 attack percentage. The next game, however, was the best of the tournament for the Wildcats, as they rallied from a six-point deficit against the Golden Eagles to take a 24-23 lead. Tech clawed its way back on top to claim three game point opportunities at 29-26, but the ’Cats would not be denied as they again rallied for a 32-30 win.

Said setter Jenna Dykstra ’07, “It was a really great game, and we came from behind with a full team effort. No one person was playing spectacularly well, but everyone was working together and doing what we needed to do, which was have great team play.”

After the exciting comeback, however, Tennessee Tech dominated the final two games to win the match 3-1. Balak led the team with 11 kills, while Dykstra set the pace defensively with 14 digs in addition to her 35 assists.

In the final match of the weekend, Davidson dropped three straight games to William & Mary. The Wildcat offense came alive in game two, but the team still struggled overall in hitting .153 for the match. Lindsey Woeste ’08 had a team-high .391 offensive percentage and led the defense as well with 12 digs. Woeste was one of three Wildcats to register double-digit kills in the match, as Williamson had 14 and Balak had 11. Dykstra had 36 assists, and she earned her second all-tournament selection this year.

“The team definitely roller-coastered in and out of playing well,” commented Dykstra on the tournament overall. “We had some great and not-so-great moments, and we’re still looking for it to click... We’re looking forward to the conference games this weekend. The coaches have been scouting them, but we haven’t really looked yet. Mostly we’re focusing on what’s happening on our side of the net.”

Davidson next returns home to open its SoCon slate against the Citadel and College of Charleston as part of Homecoming weekend.

Liz Williamson ’07 led the team with fifteen kills against Liberty.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2004

AMERICA.
Now
In
convenient
book
form.

VOTER’S GUIDE INCLUDED

IN FIRST PRINTING ONLY

THE DAILY SHOW WITH JON STEWART PRESENTS

AMERICA

(THE BOOK)

A Citizen’s Guide to Democracy Inaction

“So informative, I even found out who I was.”
—Albert Gallatin, Secretary of the Treasury, May 14, 1801—Feb. 8, 1814

Available in hardcover and as a Time Warner AudioBook™

Read an Excerpt Online at www.twbookmark.com
Warner Books | Time Warner Book Group

Weeknights at 11P|10c