. ARTS Model Students: people I have known in college By Andy Martin Arts & Living Editor

The beginning of a final year of college tends to make one wonder what we’ve been doing here, how we’ve
been working, studying, living. Generalizations being what they are, it seems best to make some sense of how we’ve been
by describing who we’ve been living with. I'll rely on the fact that my powers of description are shoddy at
best, that my recollection is mostly fuzzy, in hopes that the following students will be fleshed out just well enough
to give one an idea of who they are and what they’ve been up to for four years; and just
poorly enough to avoid embarrassment for any described. The types aren’t exhaustive, or even types really—they’re just fairly fuzzy outlines
of two people I know.

Ian, we’ll call him, is a moderately urbane suburbanite—from Connecticut maybe, or Grosse Pointe, or Lake Forest—who summered alternately on
Nantucket or in Montana growing up. He came a little late to Davidson, having taken a year between high school
and here to decide mostly that he didn’t like school but that he needed a college degree to do most
anything that didn’t involve a shovel or a deep fryer. If Ian is where he wants to be in 5
or 6 years he’ll be something along the lines of a TV writer. He’s an English major now, though his
trips to class are infrequent enough. He mostly watches TV. Professors indulge him with passing grades mostly because they want
to get him through here. Not many people know Ian well or at all, though most have seen him lingering
on the edge of a Court party as it breaks up, dispensing terribly witty and precise social commentary to a
few equally aloof confidants at the expense of the wobbly freshman girl throwing up in a bush. You should know,
Ian’s very funny. His wit involves mostly an uncomplicated, incisive sarcasm that at its best brings friends to tears with
laughter and at its worst is a little oppressive. He’s got a fairly regular smoking habit which he’ll tell you
began during 4 a.m. panic attacks. The nicotine helps him get out of his head.

Ramona is, like most people she knows, has never met Ian. She takes hard classes and doesn’t date, but would
be pretty content to get it over with now and find her life partner. She’s a pre-med religion major. Ramona’s
terrifyingly organized. She’s been elected to things and has been on committees: The Activities Tax Council, Patterson Court Council, the
Council on Community and Religious Life, the Student Executive Committee maybe. People put their faith in her, justifiably. She’s a
list maker—yellow college-ruled legal pad pages rapidly fill up with things she sees herself doing one, and two, and three,
and four days out. Maybe a week even. She’ll go to med school in South Carolina or Georgia or Alabama,
wherever she’s from, and then practice there too probably. She’s the oldest child of four with a brother and two
sisters who she’s always been more competitive than close with. She cries sometimes because people she knows andlikes don’t always
do the things they should. Though she doesn’t laugh easily, in a rare giggly mood Ramona will squirt water through
her teeth at you, tickle you, hit you with a pillow. She lives with girls who she’s close to, girls
who drink and party and let their hair down three or four times a week. Ramona is always the most
sober in this group of six or seven—she fetches water, bread, and ibuprofen when the others are having trouble going
to sleep for the nausea of a long night out. These are private details and private lives maybe, but all
in order—one, two, a third, fourth, fifth and thousandth left out—they seem to me a little quieter, a little more
right-on, a little more reverent of the sometimes quiet, usually peculiar, and sometimes quite funny living that we’ve all noticed
happening around here for three-odd years. They’re not yet lives of quiet desperation, and in the best of all worlds
they won’t ever be. The particularities though seem fitting for a small enough school that all the same schools 1,600
or so particular kids and Ramona.

By AMOURA CARTER
Staff Writer

Visiting Theater Professor Roberto Prestigiacomo is the creator and director of “Pastiche: an original work,” coming to Davidson’s Hodson Hall
this November 17 to the 21. Prestigiacomo describes Pastiche as a “theatrical response to post-modern aesthetics; it is a mix
of different time periods and genres.” Music, drama, movement, and sound help create the mixtures of images and associations. From
an early script, Prestigiacomo created a storyboard of images using Photoshop. He then added movement and text for the actors,
which can be improvised. He estimates that 60 percent will be written and 40 percent will be developed in collaboration
with the actors. Actors are a key part of this play. Prestigiacomo stresses that they must be able to move
freely, take risks, and have interests in the process of Pastiche, as opposed to the final product.

The story of Pastiche is derived from the ideas of mythologist Joseph Campbell. The narrative is not linear, but there
is a storyline with a heroine and adventures. The heroine will visit different universes and at the end of her
journey she will come back having learned something. Prestigiacomo emphasizes that the audience should not understand the play logically because
it will address the subconscious mind and describes the desired effect of the performance as an ineffable emotional connection.

A number of the director’s colleagues contributed to the idea of Pastiche. Prestigiacomo sat down with his colleagues and developed
a working list of what they felt students responded to: post-modern aesthetics, music, drama, movement, and sound. Our very own
Dr. Carlos Rivera, Dr. Ann Fox, and Rachel Jeffreys will all make appearances in Pastiche. Art History Professor, Dr. Shaw
Smith will help with questions about contemporary art, which Pastiche is loosely based upon. Emily Bostian ’06 is the stage
manager and recent graduate and theater fellow Beth Gardner is the choreographer. Students will be able to preview portions of
Pastiche during the Davidson Dance Ensemble’s premiere performance. Gardner has collaborated with the Dance Ensemble to perform dance pieces from
Pastiche with Dance Ensemble dancers who will also perform in the play. Tickets will go on sale the week of
the performance.
