THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2004

Cable, from page 3

The Residence Life Office is currently picking up the tab, since the decision and the service selection process happened late
last Spring. However, a cable fee will be included in all room bills beginning next school year. Projected costs are
ten to 15 dollars a month per room, without exception.

Mary Alice Richter ’07 said, “I don’t agree with the idea that it [a cable fee] should be included in
the room bill, because not everybody has a TV and watches cable. Only people who watch the cable should pay
for it.”

Other cable-viewing students expressed concerns with the quality of the cable service.

Scott Buckhout ’07 expressed dismay with the frequent freezing of the channels after he had to watch “a frozen screen
shot on ESPN2 of the U.S. Amateur Finals for a day and a half.”

Future areas of debate are also anticipated. After installation in all residential housing has been completed, discussion will begin on
implementing cable in academic buildings. The current service also allows for two local Davidson College channels, which are intended to
be a venue for both the academic and the extracurricular.

Some suggested uses for these channels include airing recordings of campus speakers and athletic events, in addition to productions by
the theatre department and students with a film concentration. The channels may also prove a venue for student-run television shows.

Shandley promises that none of these changes will be realized before having “a very inclusive campus-wide conversation” to ensure that
all groups on campus have equal access to these opportunities.

Shandley also expressed his hope that the student body would maintain an open mind.

He said, “I hope we have the courage [in five years] to look at the effects of [cable] thoughtfully, and
at least talk about whether this place is different because of it. It may not be.”

Looking for experience in Fundraising? Consider applying to be a student fundraiser for the Annual Fund!

We promise flexible hours, excellent pay and bonuses.

Please visit our website to find out more at http://www2.davidson.edu/giving/af_stus.asp.

Information sessions will be held Monday, Aug. 30th at 5 pm in Alvarez 302 and Thursday, Sept. 2nd at 4:30
pm in Alvarez 313. Contact Maria Tardugno at (704) 894-2113 or matardugno@davidson.edu.

The Senior Class Gift has reached 70% pledged and paid participation!

President and Mrs. Vagt will make a gift of $12,005 to the Annual Fund if the Senior Class reaches 75%
PAID participation.

Please visit our website at www.davidson.edu/giving to make a gift online. Contact Maria Tardugno x2113 or matardugno@davidson.edu with questions.

Seniors, Don’t Forget: Wednesday, Sept. 15th Pigapolooza Sponsored by Dining Services 5:30-7:30 pm Courtyard between Hart and Jamison (rain location:
Chambers Gallery)

Students span globe during summer vacation

By Don WILLIAMS Staff Writer

This summer, Davidson students spread out across the country and the globe to pursue diverse interests.

Joel Hewett ’07 spent a month in the Guizhou province of China teaching English to middle-school and high-school teachers, some
of whom were over twice his age.

The program, which was run by the Amity Foundation, provided Hewett the opportunity to discuss the differences between Eastern and
Western cultures.

Hewett also discovered the universality of English in global affairs.

Hewett said, “All in all, after getting kicked out of a WWII memorial in Nanjing for wearing rainbow sandals, really
learning how to eat with chopsticks, and playing ‘Marco Polo’ in a Chinese swimming pool, it turned out to be
a good month. But here’s to coming home to Davidson!”

Joel Hewett ’07 taught English to middle and high school teachers in China for a month during the summer.

Dan Heeren ’07 worked as a front desk clerk at the University of California-Davis Medical Center. While at UC Davis,
he also volunteered in the emergency room and spent some time as an EKG technician.

Heeren was surprised by the diversity of the people he met in the emergency room. He noted that the patients
ranged from “prisoners to CEOs, homeless vagrants to middle-class families.”

When not in the hospital, Heeren participated in Civil War reenactments. He is a member of the 71st Pennsylvania Volunteer
Infantry and the National Civil War Association.

Finally, on his way back to Davidson from California, Heeren drove cross-country with his roommate Brad Demeter ’07.

Brandon Carroll ’06, Darcie Draudt ’07, Regina Hubard ’06, Dave McManama ’06, Jordie Poncy ’06, Ian Sheridan ’07, and Peter
Williams ’07 participated in Davidson’s June study trip to Tours, France, where they took courses at the Institut de Touraine
and spent the month with different host families.

The trip allowed for much sight-seeing around Tours as well as trips around the Loire Valley and to Bordeaux and
Brittany.

After the trip to Tours, the students went their separate ways, some staying to tour or study further in Europe,
while others returned to the US.

Kristen Klements ’05 spent her summer studying in Rome with the University of Georgia’s classics study abroad program. Klements joined
27 other students to learn about Roman culture at historical sites, with two professors from the University lecturing at the
Roman Forum, Pompeii, and various other landmarks.

Firsthand accounts from these and other students have been posted online. To read more about student summer experiences, visit Davidson’s
homepage and click on “Reports from the Field on Student Summer Experiences.”

Above: Six of the participants in Davidson’s June in Tours, France program sit on the steps of the Institut de
Touraine, where they took classes during the summer.

Left: Dan Heeren ’07, a member of the 71st Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry and the National Civil War Association, participated in
Civil War reenactments during the summer.
