16 — SP eT! ee — zB e > 3 rg mam 1S: THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2004

Men’s basketball fights through intense early schedule
By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

It has been an up-and-down opening to the season for men’s basketball, a team that has already faced the likes of Missouri, St. Joseph’s, Duke, and Georgetown. Davidson has performed well at times, including a victory in the season-opener at Big XII opponent Missouri and a near-miss against Duke at the Charlotte Coliseum, but has also looked like just another mid-major in big losses to St. Joe’s and the Hoyas.

As head coach Bob McKillop says, “The opening schedule presents challenges on the court and to our energy. Any tough schedule will test all abilities of a team on the court, and having this many games of national interest challenges emotional abilities, it saps at your energy.” Resilience under that kind of pressure, he hopes, will help down the line in conference play.

After opening the season 2-2, including losses to 2004 Elite Eight teams Duke and St. Joseph’s, Davidson played host to Georgetown last Tuesday with its 15-game winning streak at Belk Arena on the line. Davidson hung close for most of the first half, but a 21-12 run by the Hoyas over the final eight minutes of the period gave Georgetown an 11-point lead at the break. Davidson tried to climb back into the game throughout the second half, four times getting the game back into single figures, but Georgetown continued its hot shooting from the floor, including better than a 50 percent clip from beyond the arc. The Hoyas finally buried the Wildcats when they nailed eight shots in a row, including six three-pointers, to push their lead past 20 points. While the Hoyas scored at a 57.4 percent clip, Davidson struggled in the half-court set and shot just 41.5 from the field to produce their lowest offensive output of the season. Brendan Winters ’06 led the Wildcats with 21 points, including going five for five from three, and Matt McKillop added nine points.

Women’s basketball has opened up the season 4-3, including a 2-0 record in SoCon.

Player of the Week
David Crow ‘05
IMAC Football
Hometown: New York City, New York
Major: Political Science

Facing a fourth and goal from the five in the weekly IMAC Challenge, Crow lined up in the slot position and ran a short button hook route into the end-zone. Crow proceeded to haul in the go-ahead score, and on the next play gave a vicious blow to the opposing kick returner.

Logan Kosmalski was a man in the post, scoring 25 points and grabbing 13 rebounds. Aside from Winters and McKillop, Davidson was 1-14 from outside in the 76-51 loss. According to McKillop, “The defense of [Georgetown] was a factor that disrupted the rhythm and flow that is the strength see Basketball, page 14

By PIERCE TRUMBO
Staff Writer

While the women’s basketball team’s 4-3 mark in the early season would seem to indicate an up-and-down start to the year, the Wildcats have shown signs of promise and success despite a youthful line-up that sports four new starters from a year ago. As guard Katie Hamilton ’07 said, “We are 4-3 overall, but our losses have come to Duke, Wake Forest, and UNC Charlotte, all of which are very skilled teams. All of those games were close, which tells me this team has a lot of potential.” The games against Wake and UNC Charlotte were decided by margins of three and six points, respectively, and Davidson hung with nationally-ranked Duke until the final minutes of play. On the positive side of the win column, Davidson claimed two victories at the Lancer Invitational against Farleigh Dickinson and Longwood, and the Wildcats have begun their SoCon slate with a perfect 2-0 after victories against Georgia Southern and Wofford. Last Tuesday, Davidson traveled up to Winston Salem to take on ACC foe Wake Forest, a perfect 3-0 heading into the contest. In the first half, theWildcats looked out-classed by the Demon Deacons, as they scored a season-low 18 points on 20 percent shooting and trailed by 16 heading into the locker room. The ’Cats responded after the break, however, as Davidson went on a 10-0 run in the early minutes of the second half to close to within eight, 38-30, with over 14 minutes to play. Wake Forest surged ahead once again, but the Wildcats used another 10-0 run to knot the score at 43 at the 7:11 mark. Davidson actually went on to pull ahead by seven points, 55-48, but cold shooting over the final minutes of play allowed the Demon Deacons to climb back into the game and eventually claim the win, 58-55.

Brendan Winters ‘06 earns early-season Southern Conference Honors
By Wilson McCrory
Sports Editor

Men’s basketball player Brendan Winters ’06 was voted the Southern Conference Player of the Month last week by the coaches and media, achieving recognition for his stellar performances so far this season. At the time of the selection, Winters averaged 18.4 points per game and a 64 percent rate on three-point shots on the season. From the field, Winters is shooting just below 60 percent. Furthermore, despite playing tough teams like Missouri, Duke, St. Joseph’s, and Georgetown, Winters scored in double figures in all five games last month.

The Denver, CO native sank 10 shots, a career high, against Duke at the Charlotte Coliseum en route to a 24-point outburst against the Blue Devils. Winters continued his domination the following week, as he tied a school record against Georgetown by going five for five behind the arc. That performance helped him also garner Co-SoCon Player of the Week honors this past week. As a freshman, the guard led the Southern Conference in three-point shots and started all but three games for the Wildcats. Last year, in his sophomore season, he averaged more than 20 points per contest in SoCon games, the first player coached by Bob McKillop to do so, and he was a nominee for Player of the Year award in the Southern Conference. He was the only Davidson player to be named to the First Team All-Conference for the season.

Women’s basketball moves to 2-0 in SoCon over weekend

Davidson next traveled to Wofford, where the Wildcats won 76-66 behind Hamilton’s 20 points and five rebounds and Emily Callahan’s ’05 13 points and six rebounds on 7-10 shooting from the line. Tia Washington ’07 had four steals and added 10 points on 4-5 shooting from the field and Cara Reed ’08 chipped in thirteen points and 6 rebounds. Up 43-37 at halftime, Davidson stepped up the defense in the second half, holding Wofford to 41.9 percent shooting while shooting nearly 52 percent from the field in the period. Hamilton said, “We didn’t play our best in the first half, but we came out strong in the second half and did some good things.” Davidson out-rebounded Wofford 34-32, though the Terriers scored eight more points in the paint, 28-20. The Wildcats also outscored Wofford 17-13 on points off turnovers. Callahan said, “We were happy with a win at Wofford, but definitely not satisfied, having given up a 20-point lead early in the second half. However, many players have already filled a variety of roles for us early in the season, so that’s always promising. Once our team realizes how talented we are, we’ll be able to play uninhibited, and no one will be able to stop us.”

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Hot Water

In the Davidson Invite, freshmen swimmers continued to set the pace in the pool, as Will Broughton ‘08 and Fiete Stegger ‘08 both finished first in their respective races. Broughton won the 1650 free with a season-best time of 16:18.48 by a margin of 20 seconds over the second-place finisher. Stegger also won overwhelmingly in the 100 free, finishing a second and a half faster than the second-place finisher with a time of 47.37.