12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOR YOUR SPORTS FIX

PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat game of the week: Men’s Tennis vs. Chattanooga
Friday at 2:00 p.m. on the Covington courts

The ’Cats have a dismal 0-3 record within the conference, but they have a chance to change that this weekend
against Chattanooga. While they have played three more SoCon matches than the Wildcats, the Mocs are a mere one game
ahead in the standings with a record of 1-5. The men are 6-5 overall this season and, with some crowd
support, could easily improve on that record and obtain their first conference win.

Outside the Den: #1 Saint Joe's vs. #4 Wake Forest...

SPORTS

The recent appointment of Davidson Athletic Director Jim Murphy to the newly-created NCAA task force on recruiting has been overshadowed
by reports of a recruiting scandal on Davidson’s own campus. The task force was created in response to the rash
of scandals that have rocked respected institutions such as the University of Colorado, where allegations of alcohol abuse and sexual
misconduct on official recruiting visits have surfaced. Recent events suggest that Davidson may not be as far from the fray
as people think.

The visit in question occurred last weekend, when a football recruit (whose name is being withheld pending further investigation) made
his official recruiting trip to Davidson. The events reported by the recruit, as leaked to the Davidsonian by an anonymous
source, give a detailed account of the scandalous instances of alcohol abuse and sexual misconduct that took place during his
visit. The recruit arrived on Thursday evening, where he met his host (whose name will also be withheld). The two,
along with the host’s roommate, then traveled to a local Davidson bar, called the Brickhouse. Here the group indulged themselves
on alcohol.

Hopeful or Hopeless?

I’d like to start out with a story on the Japanese, now that we are on the subject. In a
time of economic despair, Japan and its horse racing fans are finding hope, or hopelessness, in a horse that has
lost 106 straight races. In her last race, Haru-urara, which means Gentle Spring, finished in tenth place in front of
a record crowd of 13,000 fans, hailing from across the country. The runty chestnut mare that wears a pink Hello
Kitty hood was even jockeyed by one of the most famed jockeys in Japan, Yutaka Take. Is this hopeless horse
the key to Japan’s return to economic prosperity? It’s a possibility. The racetrack, Kochi Racecourse, was nearly bankrupt until they
promoted this four-legged loser, and their revenues began to rise.

That is not all that Haru-urara is doing for the Japanese. We in the United States have our “Seabiscuit,” in
time the Japanese will see a movie about this winless horse (it is in the making). Also included in the
Haru craze are pop songs about her, t-shirts being printed, “Haru” tours being offered, postage stamps being made, and lucky
charms available containing strands of her hair. Selling “lucky charms” from the hair of a record-setting loser? Actually, the record
for most consecutive losses by a Japanese horse is 161 races by Hakuhou Queen in 1992.

March: a month of miracles

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Columnist

It was entirely fitting that, as the skies opened up last Thursday at noon and the rain came pouring down,
the NCAA Tournament began. You see, for so many of us March Madness has washed away any and all other
obligations. But can you blame us? With more than seven hours of live basketball for four consecutive days, sports junkies
and casual fans alike have been hard-pressed to find any reason to leave the couch. Meals consisted entirely of leftovers,
phones went unanswered, bathrooms became obsolete, and relationships ended all because 14 games came down to the last shot.

CBS is lowest on the major network totem pole; that’s common knowledge. No offense Survivor and Star Search fans, but
those shows have about as much appeal as Magic Cards. When it comes to sports, however, CBS dominates, and March
Madness is the network’s version of Spring Frolics. On Saturday night there were two incredible games ending at exactly the
same time, and CBS was forced to switch back and forth between the Syracuse/Maryland game and the Stanford/Alabama contest. It
got to the point where the games basically meshed into one, and you were rooting for Syrabama to upset Stanland.
Every tournament day, Cinderellas are born and Goliaths are slain, all while our emotions are about as stable as Dick
Vitale on crank. Indeed, the outcome of a single game can change everything.

If only it was on PPV. Picture this: Nate “Galaxy Warrior” Campbell and Robbie “Bomber” Peden are going at each
other in the super-featherweight title eliminator bout in Temecula, California. Campbell, ranked at number two, is ahead on two of
the judges’ scorecards and level with the third.in the fifth round. A boxer philosophy, this night can make or break
one’s day, night, or even entire weekend. Case in point: Saturday night, North Carolina loses to Texas, and both parties
on Patterson Court were noticeably empty, due in large part to the many Tar Heels fans sitting at home in
the dark, remembering the better days of Eric Montross and Serge Zwicker. Similarly, Davidson’s club lacrosse team hammered Alabama on
Saturday night, 17-2, but the Crimson Tide laxers were not drowning their sorrows at the hotel following the game. Instead,
they were out celebrating 8-seed ’Bama’s victory over top-seeded Stanford. It takes a small miracle for anyone to forget a
15-goal loss within an hour of the final whistle, club sport or not. Certainly, many of us enjoyed watching the
’Tide roll over the Cardinal, but how many of you had Stanford going to the Final Four, or even all
the way? Busted bracket much? Therein lies the greatest problem of March Madness: our hearts want Cinderella, but our brackets
(and our money) need her evil stepsister.

Which brings us to the most frustrating misconduct that may push Davidson ahead of chicken wings before CU in the
national spotlight. The recruit arrived in the student union late Wednesday, March 24, 2004, after being asked to leave the
bar after the host allegedly attempted to order a round of beers using a chalked license. The group then traveled
back to campus in search of a party and ended up back in the union for “Trivia Night.” Here the
three again indulged themselves on chicken wings, with the recruit reportedly becoming slightly sick from all the food. The group
then returned to the host’s room, where the recruit spent the night on the futon listening to the host make
out with his girlfriend, who spent the night. The host reportedly promised, “Tomorrow night will be much better. Just wait.”
The recruit was then forced to wake at 9:00 a.m. the next morning and brought to his host’s 9:30 political
science class, because, according to the host, “This is my easiest class.”

See Sideline, page 13

should be wrapped up in the hands of Campbell. But, only explained by cockiness or fraud, the Galaxy Warrior drops
his gloved hands to the side, sticks out his chin, and dares the Australian Peden to hit him. Accepting the
dare, the Bomber drops a ferocious left hook and gives Campbell his first Everlast tattoo, directly on the chin. Well,
not really, but Peden TKO’s the cocky Campbell, end of story...

Pascale Paton struggled for eight hours when she finally reeled in a 400kg shark off the coast of Sydney, Australia.
The long day began at 9:45 a.m., when her sixteen-year-old felt the pull of this 4.4-meter long shark who had
clamped down on her 5 kg salmon bait. It wasn’t until 6 p.m. that same night when she pulled in
her winning fish in the Sydney Broken Bay fishing tournament. Pascale had this to say about the miraculous fishing display:
“My legs started to hurt, but I wouldn’t give up.” It’s too bad this Australian can’t speak “horse.” Japanese horse,
that is.

March Madness is one of the most entertaining tasks known to men and women between the ages of 18 and
35: selecting your bracket. Unless you’re a complete dork, no one knows enough about each match-up to make even an
educated guess about the outcome. March Madness is the great equalizer, and any team can win on any given night—except
16-seeds, which have never won. Often times, especially in the first round, you’ve got to invent a reason why the
chess club president will beat the quarterback and win the girl. I’d love to hear why anyone picked 12-seed Pacific
to knock off 5-seed Providence. Was it a 2pac vs. Biggie type of thing? Or maybe it’s because Providence is
run by the Italian Mafia? (Sadly, it’s true). And then there are those 8 vs. 9 match-ups that are almost
unfair to us bracketologists. This is like picking between Bird and Magic, Gretzky and Lemieux, or Britney and Jessica. It’s
within these match-ups that we create the most elaborate reasons defending our choice. For instance, I had 8-seed Washington over
9-seed UAB because I read an ESPN article about perverts on UAB’s football team.

As for the rest of my bracket, it’s not looking good—I’ve only got eight teams in the Sweet 16, and
three of my Elite Eight teams are gone. My underdogs didn’t rise up and my favorites fell down. Fortunately, having
no real allegiance to any one team (my parents went to Holy Cross, and Davidson isn’t dancing this year), I’m
not obligated to automatically send some school like Duke or Kentucky to the final. And so I ask, does anyone
else have Pittsburgh cutting down the nets on April 5? Anyone?
