6 THE DAVIDSONIAN THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2004

‘Black Eyed Peas’ to entertain Davidson students

By Katie HUNTER
Staff Writer

Though the Wildcats basketball team will not be taking center court that night, you can rest assured that plenty of
people will still seize the opportunity to go crazy and “get retarded” next Wednesday evening in Davidson’s own Belk Arena.
In just one week, the college will host hip-hop musical group the Black Eyed Peas, an L.A.-based foursome known for
their spirited lyrics and funky dynamic.

The Black Eyed Peas’ stop in Davidson, included as part of their 2004 fall college campus tour, is just one
event in a year that has proven pretty successful for the group. After being nominated for a Grammy and snagging
an MTV Video Music Award for Best Choreography, the BEP’s have recently seen a surge in popularity, evident from their
solid foothold in the Billboard Top 40 over the past few months. With their newest album, “Elephunk,” now certified platinum,
the BEP are reportedly a hot ticket.

“If we hadn’t gotten the Black Eyed Peas secured into a contract when we did, they would have been much
more difficult to reserve after winning the MTV Video Music Award,” states Assistant Director for Union Programs Lee Ann Bannerman.
“Reserving an act like the Black Eyed Peas takes a lot of time,” adds Union Board Concert Committee Chair Katherine
Cox ’07, who also knows about all the work that goes into “securing lights, security, a venue, and many other
important details that are necessary for the day of the show.”

“We are fortunate to have had many big acts come to Davidson,” she states, citing well-known performers like John Mayer,
Counting Crows, and the Dave Matthews Band from recent years. Cox says that the Union Board considered the BEP “an
excellent choice, since they had never played in the area before. I know their music is played at the parties
on the Court every weekend, and I think the students are excited about hearing them live.”

Some people at Davidson are questioning this claim, but gauging the excitement around campus about the show really depends on
with whom you speak. Kristy Hayden ’07 cites her reason for not going as a matter of taste. “I really
don’t like that kind of music, and I don’t want to spend $22 dollars on a show that doesn’t personally
excite me.” Karina Nascimento ’08 says that her unfamiliarity “with the Black Eyed Peas and their music” has prevented her
from buying a ticket thus far, while Abigail Evans ’08 claims that she “isn’t sure yet” whether or not she
will be going because of other commitments. Jesse Sharp-Williams ’06 plans on being there and busting a move, because “the
Black Eyed Peas’ songs are really good to dance to.” Nate Cox ’05 agrees, saying that “the BEP provide a
nice mix of hip-hop and pop music I think the Davidson community will enjoy.”

Many students also wonder how the acts invited to Davidson are chosen, questioning whether or not they have a choice
in the matter. Bannerman, who in her role with the Union plays a large part in bringing entertainers to campus,
confirms that they do indeed. “A survey listing the available acts for a fall concert was sent out through email
to the sophomore, junior, and senior class this summer,” she explains, “and the Black Eyed Peas were the second most
popular choice, right behind Dave Chapelle.” Bannerman adds, “The Union Board pursued Chapelle, but plans fell through.” Issues concerning the
contract arose and Chapelle no longer became an available option.

Bannerman stresses the careful consideration taken by the Union Board when it comes to booking an act, emphatically stating that
“we solicit and get as much gauge from the student body before we decide on anything.” The BEP has become
one of the hottest bands in recent months. Black Eyed Peas perform on November 10, here in concert with Cpe
d$®BO!) choice of the fall concert depends greatly on student response and the availability of performers, as Bannerman added that
“the survey that was sent out was a compilation of very diverse acts, from a country group to your typical
rock band. We created a list of six available shows for the fall semester, which the students then voted on.”on.”
Bannerman admits that she and others involved with the concert are “surprised that the campus isn’t more excited about the
show,” but states that “we feel very confident in how we choose the acts that come to Davidson, and expect
the ticket sales to increase during the days right before the show.” She cites the reason for late sales as
“because the seats for the show are general admission, there really is no incentive to purchase a ticket early.”

Bannerman has also helped to play up the concert’s promotion outside of Davidson’s grounds. Ads for the concert have been
run in the Charlotte Observer, and local radio station WNKS 95.1 is planning a “Black Eyed Peas Weekend” to build
up excitement, with a free ticket and merchandise giveaway a few days prior to the show. Bannerman has also focused
attention on neighboring high schools and colleges, where there are sure to be plenty of potential BEP concertgoers.

“There is a lot of buzz in the outside community,” claims Leah Germelman ’03, Davidson’s Ticket Office Manager. Much of
the buzz around campus comes from those students excited about the show, including Paige Taylor ’08, who purchased her ticket
the day they went on sale. “I’m really excited about seeing them live, ever since I saw them perform on
SNL,” Taylor says of the BEP. “The lead singer, Fergie, has a great voice, and their songs have really good
lyrics.” Nate Cox adds to this sentiment, stating his belief that “this is a great opportunity for students to have
a great time.”

Some students, regardless of their decision to attend the show, are questioning whether Davidson’s decision to book the BEP had
anything to do with an intention of increasing the diversity of acts that come to campus. This is due to
the group members’ hip-hop appeal and varying ethnicities. Bannerman states that “we are thrilled that they are a diverse group,”
but claims that, “we picked them only because the student body voted them as one of the most popular choices.”
She also points out that Davidson has recently hosted Ludacris and Bill Cosby, who both proved to be very popular
acts with a large majority of the student body.

Bannerman and Union Board Concert Committee members are hoping to get a similar response to the BEP come November 10.
She emphasizes the importance of the fall concert when it comes to considering acts for next semester. “If a concert
loses money, it will have a tremendous impact on what we do in the spring,” she explains, “because the Union
Board really goes out on a limb by providing funds for these concerts.”

“The Union Board essentially provides enough money to subsidize the cost of obtaining these shows, giving an amount it deems
appropriate,” Bannerman continued. The Board’s ability and desire to give money for concerts depends a great deal on the student
body’s participation, particularly when it comes to the number of tickets sold. Because the Union Board can decide how much
to give during a given semester, it plays a big role in the determination of future campus features. Germelman adds
that “great sales for this show will improve the chances of securing enough revenue to bring in a great act
next semester,” which will allow the Union Board to shoot for the most desirable options after surveying the campus.

Though Bannerman and the Concert Committee have been working fervently to advertise for the show around campus, with posters, door
hangers, and even actual cans of black-eyed peas, she acknowledges that the best way to generate interest is “by word
of mouth and talking it up with friends.” Though the Union Board and Concert Committee hope that Davidson students soon
show “where the love is” a little more, Germelman states that “we are really excited about the Black Eyed Peas
concert, no matter how many people show up.”

“This is the biggest show we’ve done in terms of production in the past four years,” adds Bannerman. “With all
the lights and visual aspects, it should be really energetic and exciting.” She hopes, along with others involved in the
show’s production, that Davidson students will “get it started” soon enough.

STSTRAVEL.COM
Join America’s #1 Student Tour Operator
1-800-648-4849 / www.ststravel.com
