THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Golf Team finishes seventh

By Jeff HAMILTON
Staff Writer

The Wildcat golf team ended their first trip to Alabama with a 7th place finish at the USA Fall Beach Classic in Mobile, AL on Nov. 1-2. Facing a tough Magnolia Grove Golf course, the Wildcats were paced by two underclassmen en route to an 895 score in the 54-hole tournament.

The strong efforts from sophomore Alex Knoll ’07 and junior Tim Dillon ’06, who each tied for ninth with a 221 total, mark the conclusion of the Wildcats’ fall campaign. They now look optimistically toward the official spring season that begins Feb. 14, 2005 in Orlando, FL.

The University of Louisville took home the 2004 Fall Beach Classic team title, marking the second win during the fall season for the 37th ranked Cardinals.

Rounding out the scoring for the Wildcat five were sophomore Steve Mayo ’07 (75-73-77, 225) and seniors Peyton Gallager ’05 (79-77-74, 230) and Dan Koernke ’05 (79-81-75, 235).

In their previous three outings this fall, the ’Cats finished 9th out of 17 teams at the Midpines Intercollegiate, 3rd of 13 at the Raines Development Intercollegiate, and 8th at the Xavier Invitational.

While the team was less than ecstatic about their fall results, they have much to build on for the spring season when they have a chance to compete for a spot in the NCAA Regionals.

Davidson is fortunate this season to play host to the Southern Conference Championship, set for April 17-20 at the River Run Club in Davidson. The familiarity that the players have with River Run should provide an advantage over some stiff Southern Conference competition.

Volleyball stumbles in South Carolina showdowns

By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

Volleyball went through a rough weekend in Charleston, S.C., dropping matches to SoCon opponents Charleston and the Citadel to extend their losing streak to six games.

Saturday’s match against College of Charleston began with a .000 attack percentage for the Wildcats, as they had eight errors to equal their eight kills in the first game. Game two saw some strong play as the ’Cats battled back from a 17-11 deficit to take a 22-21 lead, but the Cougars came away four points on top at the end.

In game three, Charleston took an early lead and never relinquished it to take a 3-0 sweep over Davidson. Liz Williamson ’07 led the Wildcats with 11 kills, while Katie Pierucci ’08 had 7 digs and 13 assists to lead the defense and passing.

The Wildcats then traveled across town to the Citadel. The ’Cats finally appeared ready to break through for a victory after winning the first game by a close 30-28 margin, but that was the end of the good news for the Wildcats on Sunday.

The Bulldogs came out strong in game two to build a 13-3 lead, and the Citadel continued that momentum en route to three straight game victories for the 3-1 win.

The Wildcats were led by Williamson and Pierucci on offense, with 26 and 17 kills respectively. Pierucci also led in assists with 27, followed closely by Erin Balak ’06 with 24. Captain Tam Gallen ’05 paced the ’Cats in digs with 16 and Pierucci’s nine left her one short of a triple-double.

The losing streak has been frustrating for the Wildcats, but as Pierucci says, “We’ve all tried to remain as positive as possible when things weren’t going our way, but we’re just hoping to peak at the right time [at SoCons]... At this point, it’s not necessarily technical skills that we need to improve. It’s just playing with momentum at the right times in the game and maintaining that throughout the match.”

Home matches are all that remain for the Wildcats before the conference tournament in Cullowhee. They next play this Saturday against Georgia Southern at 7:00 p.m.

from Connolly, page 12

ably have some sort of snide joke here. Instead, I direct you towards the Perspectives section, which has taught us that the only perspectives Davidson students have are political.

Further, according to ESPN.com, Business Week predicted a 70 percent chance that John Kerry would win the election because the Red Sox won the World Series and the Red Sox’ dominant uniform color is red. Go chew on that logic for a while and let me know when it makes you puke.

But before you do, know this: I can count on one hand the number of times I remember the Sox wearing red jerseys. Indeed, the team’s real ‘predominant’ uniform colors are white (home) and gray (road). Guess that means some white guy with gray hair won. Go figure.

(This is me itching to write about the Patriots’ semi-predictable collapse. When I told my editor I was thinking about not discussing Boston sports this week because people were probably getting sick of it, all he said was “Yeah, you’re right.” Made me feel all warm inside.)

And finally, basketball returns to the Queen City for the first time since freshman year when the Charlotte Bobcats open their inaugural season tonight. Rumor has it the Coliseum was booked for a Hoobastank concert, and so the game will be held at a nearby playground with a maximum seating capacity of 76. Tickets are still available.

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2004 13

All Students, Faculty, and Staff receive 20% off with CatCard!