6 LIVING 2° THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY

Zach Braff blending into his surroundings in ‘Garden State.’

Actor, writer, director Zach Braff impresses audiences with ‘Garden State’

By STEVE KALISKI
Senior Staff

Do you find periods sexy? Have you ever looked at a “dot dot dot” at the end of a passage
and thought “Wow, that’s hot?” If you have, then “Garden State” may set the grammar geek in you spinning. Both
the period and the ellipsis play brief but pivotal roles in “Garden State.” To finish with the old and start
with the new, or to leave the old dangling, perhaps with the hope of recapturing it in the future—these are
the questions explored by the versatile Zach Braff in his stunning film debut.

Still, for all you non-English majors who do not regard punctuation marks as aphrodisiacs, “Garden State” will not let you
down. This story of an emotionally catatonic twentysomething who discovers the solution to Gen X-er inadequacy in an unlikely place
hits cinematic high points in every respect. By creating a comfortable mix of understated drama and deadpan comedy, the amiable
star of TV’s “Scrubs” exhibits more directorial confidence than filmmakers who have been in the business for far longer.

Aside from acing the Hollywood hat trick of writer/actor/director, Braff also deserves credit both for assembling an evocative soundtrack and
for coaxing one of the year’s finest performances out of Natalie Portman. I would love to eavesdrop on the inevitable
phone conversation in which George Lucas offers Braff a cut of Episode III’s earnings in exchange for tips on how
to avoid making the gorgeous starlet look doped up on OxyContin while on screen.

Revealing the kind of subdued acting chops that never reach the surface in television, Braff plays Andrew Largeman, a wannabe
Hollywood star who must work in a yuppie Vietnamese restaurant while fighting the backlash from his pseudo-breakthrough performance as a
mentally challenged quarterback. When his father (Ian Holm) informs him that his mother has passed away, Andrew puts his Oscar
dreams on hold and journeys back to New Jersey. While mourning his mother and reconciling with his father, Andrew also
schedules plenty of time to catch up with his old buddies, none of whom has quite achieved the spitting image
of success. His best friend Mark (Peter Sarsgaard) works as a gravedigger. Another acquaintance has made enough money off of
a “silent Velcro” patent to spend his days doing absolutely nothing. While visiting a neurologist to inquire about some mysterious
headaches, Andrew meets Sam (Portman), a spunky and afflicted girl whose infectious spirit distinguishes her from the characters of his
dysfunctional past. During a thoroughly eventful couple of days, Andrew and Sam become entangled in a romance that offers each
person a benefit; he gives her stability, and she nudges him out of a lifelong state of numbness and depression.

The principal actors, namely Braff, Portman, Holm, and Sarsgaard, give “Garden State” its gentle dramatic depth. Most of the hilarity
takes place on the periphery, as Andrew’s wanderings bring him face to face with some loopy characters pulled straight from
the recent landscape of “Napoleon Dynamite.”

Having struck such an enthralling and offbeat balance with these two genres, all complaints with the film are minor. Mark
leads Andrew and Sam on an excursion that meanders for too long, and with “Garden State’s” countless provocative epiphanies, it
is hard to believe that Andrew’s visit to New Jersey lasts only a few days. The soundtrack, featuring perfectly chosen
entries from Coldplay, Simon and Garfunkel, and the Shins, far surpasses the generic teeny mixes tossed together for most movies
aimed at this demographic. Thematically, very few films have shown as nuanced an understanding of the struggle for self in
the 21st Century as “Garden State.” When Braff spews out and eventually reconsiders a fairly dorky line about those wonderful
punctuation marks, you may just want to stand up in the theater and exclaim, “That’s what I’m talking about!”

Feeling stressed?: the art of relaxation and meditation

By SARAH ROBINSON
Arts & Living Editor

First Night Down marks the change of the Davidson College academic season. Beware, we are now approaching that time when
papers and tests come upon us, and soon we will be stuck in the library attempting those all-nighters in an
effort to getThat really important paper done; the one you meant to start earlier. However, in all of this, we
seem to forget that one elusive detail—relaxation. No, I do not mean relaxation through procrastination, but that thing which you
are supposed to do, which enables you to think more clearly. A dictionary definition (from www.m-w.com): To relax (v.): To
relieve from nervous tension. While procrastination is presented as one of the several types of relaxation, the startling jolt back
to reality required afterwards is too much for my taste.

What exactly is relaxation? As we get further into the semester, the need to relax becomes an important part of
the Davidson lingo. However, methods toward this state of mind vary as much as the names of the many vegetable
medleys in Commons. With the legendary workload being what it is, and the pressing need to be involved in more
than our school work, little time is devoted to pursuing what can be referred to as “sanity time.”

Being who I am, stress has become a word used fairly regularly in my vocabulary, as several friends have become
accustomed to pointing out. For me, nothing is better, after a long Tuesday in The Davidsonian office, than laying on
my floor, listening to my music choice for the week, contemplating the various paint jobs my ceiling has gone through
over the years. This is an intense period of contemplation, where, metaphorically speaking, the answers to life’s questions jump down
to me and hit me on the head. Or, in the case of my air conditioning unit, spray me with
water.

Being here for the past two-and-some-change years, I have observed the habits of others as they go about their nightly
lives. There are those who remain in the Union until ridiculous hours, eating quesadillas after 11 p.m., playing pool or
ping-pong, or even working out. This period of the day seems to be the most calming, due either to lethargy
or to the acceptance that the person will be up for a while. You have the people who talk loudly,
inhibiting those who try to study; the people who study; the Union Cafe workers, about whom you wonder: “How are
they in that good a mood this late?” Overall, these late-night visitors mellow out the hyperactivity that takes place in
the Union, which remains constant from 9:30 a.m. to 10 p.m.

Walking about campus, I asked some peers what their favorite relaxing pastime was. In a scary manner, the first-years were
the ones who were able to answer me without thinking too hard: It seems that the older a student gets,
the more they forget how to spend their free time. In Russia, free time is filled not with what someone
does in class or for extracurricular activities, but what they do for fun. Finally, when an upperclassman answered me, it
was with several answers. Requiring them to narrow their answer down to their most favorite, I discovered that the favorite
methods were often the most simple.

The top answer getter was listening to music, either accompanied by dancing, drinking coffee, or other actions requiring less thought
than that necessary to divine what two plus two equals. Music is a classic way to relieve stress. With the
instant availability of music on the web, we are now able to find the perfect music to fit any mood.
Some preferred to listen to classical music, while others chose the more moody presence of jazz.

Other popular pastimes include massages, sleeping, and chopping wood. Massages would be great and I think more people need to
learn how to give them on this campus. The Davidson Choir starts out every rehearsal with a massage circle, and
I think that is a great way to spend the first five to ten minutes of any activity.

Now granted, my little investigation has its faults, including that students knew that their answers would be published when asked.
But this politically correct, made-for-public consumption article hopefully establishes the fact that as students at “a highly selective independent liberal
arts college” we all need to let our hair down occasionally. So, while you are scheduling how to finish all
that work, remember to add some time just for what you want to do.

Snapshots of Davidson
Alaa Odeh and Meredith Harry celebrate First Night Down.
