THE DAVIDSONIAN

Young Life, from page 1
in some crazy way bring kids to Christ,” Evans McGowan ’05 said.

For participants interested in exploring Christianity further, “campaigners” meet weekly to study the Bible on a deeper level, drawing practical
applications between faith and everyday life.

“We try to make Young Life as accessible as possible,” Presley said. “We stay away from church language and try
to make Christianity real and relevant to each kid’s life.”

One of the most rewarding aspects of Young Life is having the opportunity to form strong, lasting friendships with teenagers
struggling with the pressures of high school.

“It’s about being a constant and accepting presence in their life, regardless of what they do or say or think,”
Lauren Law ’07 said.

Young Life leaders increase their visibility by visiting area high schools during lunch and after school.

Contact work allows leaders to build and maintain relationships with the students.

There is a team of leaders for each high school in the area.

Club and campaign groups are divided by gender, but many activities are co-ed and led by both male and female
leaders.

Presley emphasized that the depth of Young Life is often difficult to verbalize.

“A lot of it sounds really contrived when it comes out, but it is more natural in reality,” she said.

Young Life enables college students to reconnect with the high school environment from a fresh perspective.

“I was experiencing high school again, but from the outside looking in,” Presley said of the recent Young Life bonfire
attended by over 50 high school students. “I was reminded of how hard it is to be yourself in high
school, how you are constantly worried about your place in the social scene.”

Many current leaders had positive experiences with Young Life during high school.

For Alison Wheeler ’05, participation in Young Life proved instrumental in her spiritual growth, prompting her to become a leader
during college.

“High school was a really hard time for me, and I know that girls in general go through a lot
of hard stuff in high school,” Wheeler said. “I want to be able to hopefully touch some girls’ lives.”

Young Life leaders try to remain hopeful even when their efforts seem futile.

“Sometimes you pour so much of your life, your time and energy into a kid and it doesn’t seem like
they even care,” Law said.

“But it’s just a matter of trusting that there’s a reason you felt called to become a Young Life leader,
and that whether you can see it or not, that reason will come to fruition.”

Trey Akers ’06 emphasized that, contrary to common misconceptions, Young Life is not a church youth group but rather serves
as an “outreach ministry to kids who have given up on church or perhaps haven’t heard the Gospel in a
way that’s meaningful to them.”

“Young Life seeks to get kids involved in church, should they choose to pursue their faith in a way that
they desire to learn more,” said Akers. “It’s not impersonal, brimstone and firebrand, it’s relational. Many kids we hang out
with or talk to don’t even come to Young Life, but that doesn’t stop us from pursuing them in relationships
and just simply being their friends.”

Juggling Young Life commitments and the demands of the college workload is a challenge that many of the Young Life
leaders face weekly.

Wheeler regrets that she does not have more time to spend developing one-on-one relationships with the girls in her group.

“I wish I could have more time to invest in Young Life,” Wheeler said. “But Davidson calls, and it is
hard to balance work with Young Life, very hard.”

Despite the large time commitment, Young Life work provides perspective on Davidson life.

“After spending a Tuesday night having dinner with a high school kid, you return to Davidson and realize that some
things are so much more important than papers and tests,” Law said.

Emails, from page 1

Allison Amore ’05 who sent out a survey for a biology project.

“People were fine with it since it was a survey for a class,” said Amore. “We got a lot of
input from the student body.”

The unauthorized emails, however, have annoyed Amore.

“I had to delete a ton of them the other day to get my email working again,” she said.

The ITS user agreement explicitly disallows students from sending out mass emails without authorization. Account suspensions generally last three days,
although they are occasionally extended for particular instances.

Both Hardesty and Zaman had their email accounts suspended.

Hardesty’s email was suspended for a period of three days. She understood that her account would likely be suspended before
sending the email and even described Associate Dean of Students and ITS representative Kathy Bray-Merrell as “really nice.”

Zaman received an email suspension for an extended period of time for his first offense. His account was suspended a
second time after he replied to Hardesty’s email.

“When a student sends out a mass email like that, it is a violation with his user agreement with ITS,”
said Dean of Students Tom Shandley, “and it’s annoying to everybody.”

According to Shandley, the Davidson community experiences around three or four mass emails per year.

The Dean’s office only becomes aware of the emails through complaints by students. There has been no shortage of student
complaints about mass emails this semester.

“A lot of students have complained,” said Shandley.

All Students, Faculty, and Staff receive 20% off with CatCard!

CATAWBA AVE. (EXIT 28)
704-987-0479

VISIT WWW.ALGIARC
