THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2004

Iraq, from page 1

Having completed well over four years of active duty obligations connected with his ROTC scholarships, Dugan entered the Army reserve last month.

Dugan was stationed at a base camp in Ar Ramadi, a major town in Western Iraq, between August 2003 and March 2004.

He served as a Battle Captain for an engineer battalion tactical operation center, tracking engineer troops in the area and assigning them to missions.

Dugan also assisted Task Force Restore Iraqi Electricity (TF RIE), a group of United States expatriate contractors working to restore a 400 kHz power line spanning a 250-kilometer stretch of Iraqi soil.

“By the time I rotated out of Iraq, the restoration was 75 percent complete,” Dugan said. “Once you’re gone, you are out of the loop, so I don’t know if the project is fully complete yet.”

Dugan said that the firsthand ground perspective shed light into the conflict in a way that no media outlet could.

“The guys on the ground get to see the benefits and dangers of being over there on a personal level,” Dugan said. “You have to weigh in your own mind if it’s worth it. Every kid you see in the streets waves to you and is happy you are there. To me, that makes it worth it.”

Although Dugan has experienced progress in Iraq firsthand, he recognizes the incredible danger inherent in occupying a country with a dangerously unstable political climate.

“Anyone on a military convoy, anyone who drives from one base camp to another, is at risk for a roadside bomb,” he said. “Every day we have soldiers wounded.”

During Dugan’s first week in Iraq, Dugan’s convoy hit a remote control bomb buried on the side of the road.

“Luckily they missed and detonated it too late so it blew up between two vehicles rather than under one,” he said. “All I can say is that I was lucky. Things like that happen every day over there.”

In dealing with the tremendous loss associated with war, Dugan said that the support and camaraderie among his fellow soldiers was invaluable.

“I was fortunate to have an excellent set of peers, fellow captains now some of my best friends,” he said. “We were all under the same stress. Under those situations, soldiers just kind of bond together.”

Although Dugan had nearly completed his obligatory four years of active service before September 11, 2001, the tragic events of 9/11 compelled him to remain active in the Army for several more years.

“Having the opportunity to go over twice, serve my country, deal with the stress and come back safely was one of the most fulfilling experiences in my life,” he said.

David Rozelle ’95

U.S. Army Captain

On June 21, 2003, Army Captain David Rozelle ’95 lost his foot and a portion of his lower leg when his Humvee hit a powerful landmine.

After an amputation in Iraq and several surgeries in Washington, DC, a determined Rozelle underwent extensive physical therapy to regain full mobility.

By Christmas 2003, Rozelle was able to hit the ski slopes and enjoy his favorite winter pastime since childhood.

Rozelle has also regained the strength to train and compete in climbing, mountain biking, triathlons, and weights.

Lauren Stutts ’05 contacted Rozelle last spring after hearing about his story.

Stutts, who suffered a spinal cord injury as a teenager, and Rozelle shared their experiences in coping with an unexpected physical disability.

They have stayed in contact informally for the past several months.

“I was very impressed with him,” Stutts said. “Despite his disability, he snow-skis and runs in races. He is just a genuinely wonderful guy.”

Rozelle’s story has received publicity from many major media outlets, including NBC’s Today show and USA Today.

Rozelle uses his experiences to encourage and support other war amputees struggling to regain an active life in the military or back at home.

“I’ve never thought of myself as being really inspirational, but because of what I’ve been through, I’m the one that can talk to them,” Rozelle told Davidson Journal writer John Syme ’85 in an interview last spring. “What makes me sick is to hear about a soldier who’s been injured and who’s given up. I spend all my time trying to find those guys and weed them out. I take it personally. That’s my purpose.”

The U.S. Army has recently declared Rozelle “fit for duty.”

Currently, Rozelle is in command of Remington Troop, 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment in Fort Carson, Colorado, right outside of Colorado Springs.

Rozelle intends to return to Iraq sometime next year.

Above: Keith Carmack, son of Economics Department Barbara Carmack, left Thursday for his first tour.

Jerry’s Homemade Seltzers, Inc.
202 South Main St. Davidson, NC.
704-892-0604