Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

4 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2004

Orientation, from page 1

on the town green. CROP is an international organization that fights hunger. The walk was an attempt to get new
students acquainted with the community of Davidson and their new environment. Shandley recalls of his CROP walk that “the students
were more interested in getting to know one another after the information overload of recent days.”

Students, too, reported wishing there was more time to get to know their hallmates and other incoming freshmen. An opportunity
to do just this came in the form of Freshman Olympics and the famous Freshman Cake Race, both of which
Misty Stallings ’08 thought were “an awesome way to bring the class together.”

Shandley admitted that the honor code signing, required of all first years, is among his favorite traditions of the college.
He described the look on students' faces when they pledged that seemed to say, “This is why I came here.”
Stallings recalled similar feelings of satisfaction when she attended Convocation in the Presbyterian Church. “It gave me a great sense
of pride in the school I had chosen to attend,” she said.

While some students felt that Orientation was hectic and tedious, other students reported a new awareness and appreciation for Davidson’s
resources. Stallings affirmed the success of this year’s Orientation. “Orientation showed me that this year is going to be very
tough, but that everyone is here to help me,” Stallings said.

The committee in charge of Orientation spends the majority of the school year planning for the upcoming class. Bray-Merrell stated
that one of the main goals for orientation is “introducing the new students to those people who will be most
helpful to them in their first year, including their advisor, various professors, and other faculty and staff.”

While Orientation tries to accomplish a lot, Shandley noted this is really the beginning of a longer Orientation process. Shandley
said that though “finding one’s space at Davidson starts during Orientation,” it is by no means complete by the beginning
of classes.

Bray-Merrell and the rest of the Orientation Committee strongly encourage all first years to fill out their Orientation Evaluation Form,
which will ensure that future Davidsonians benefit from their Orientation experiences as well.

Bylaws, from page 1

powers by granting admission to an applicant without the support of the majority of voting members. The new guideline approved
by the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees on August 10 implies that this assertion is incorrect and refers
to presidential authority under the College’s Constitution.

Since coming into effect on July 1, 1976, the Constitution has superseded all other governance provisions of the college, including
the Faculty Bylaws. The discrepancy in official protocol will be the next line of business for Vagt.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.the Board of Trustees and Faculty. “We need to make
sure that the faculty handbook [in which the Bylaws are found] is consistent with the Constitution,” said Vagt. “What lies
ahead of us is improving the clarity and consistency in that document.”

New procedure calls for shared authority

Despite this legal power provided to the President under the Constitution, the Board acknowledged that the President must cooperate with
the Committee. According to the new guidelines, “While the President of the College has the authority through the College Constitution
to determine the final admissibility of an applicant, the President shares that authority with the Faculty Committee on Admission and
Financial Aid.”

The new process stresses early notification. According to the new procedure, the President must “send written communication with rationale about
the candidate’s significance to the College... well in advance of final deliberation on the applicant pool.” Additionally, the guideline states,
“In the spirit of shared governance, thorough consultation and deliberation are encouraged.” The President must consult the Committee about “applicants
who have special significance to college-wide priorities.” If disagreement over an individual applicant remains, “the President must re-approach the Committee
to restate the reasons for the use of Presidential authority.” The President is required to submit his rationale to the
Chair of the Board of Trustees and the Vice Chair pro tem of the Faculty.

“We have adopted a procedure that should improve communication and clarify responsibilities,” said John McCartney, Chairman of the Board of
Trustees. “We’ve discussed the issue of going back and attempting to make congruent the various governing documents where they are
not clear.”

The President’s role: a balancing act

Vagt praised the Board’s new procedure, stressing that while he is still accorded the final say, the shared authority is
crucial. “The role of the faculty in the admission process is unique and vital. It is important to maintain this
level of engagement,” he said.

McCartney also stressed the unique role that faculty play in the admissions process. “The Davidson faculty dedicates an extraordinary amount
of time and energy to the admissions process and we are unusual in that the faculty makes the effort to
address not just the academic ability of our applicants but looks at them as a whole,” he said.

The new guidelines emphasize Davidson’s commitment to looking beyond just the academic talent of applicants by encouraging the enrollment of
students who “would further institutional priorities.” “Institutional priorities mean a broad range of things beyond just academic ability,” said McCartney.
“It could mean, for example, specific skills in arts or athletics... and special attention to legacies.” Vagt added that, “[Legacies]
are important because this is who Davidson is. It is a piece of Davidson heritage.”

Given the need to take so many factors into account, the most important task for Vagt may be the balancing
act he must perform. “I am accountable to at least a half dozen groups,” he said. “Certainly the Board of
Trustees, but also the Faculty, staff, students, parents, alumni. I hear from each and every group. Balancing their interests is
what my role is.”
