THE DAVIDSONIAN

TODAY'S NEWS

Snooze hit
SEE PAGE 21

Work avoided
Library printer cartridge used entirely on Spark Notes

Radio playing ‘Hey Ya’ tossed out window
SEE PAGE 10

Wow, that’s a lot of porn
SEE PAGE 12

THE YOWL
Your Davidsonian Humor Section

CONTRIBUTING THIS WEEK
Lindy Baldwin
Colin Eagan
Dan Kriebel

Students with story suggestions or interested in writing should contact the editor at coeagan@davidson.edu

MARCH 31, 2004

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Junior had no idea he was stalker
Therapy, medication to end ‘sketchy’ behavior

SENTELLE—In what came as a very large shock to both him and his closest male friends, Robbie Mahar ’05 discovered
Saturday that he is in fact a stalker. The realization, confirmed by a number of campus females that continues to
grow even now, came on the heels of Mahar’s unconscious yet clearly obvious attempt to stalk classmate Jenny Kruger ’06.

“I had no idea I had this problem,” said Mahar. “But thank God I now know, so I can try
to prevent this horrible behavior in the future.”

The stalking began the Friday after spring break when Mahar asked Kruger out for ice cream—or at least thought he
was asking her out. Tragically, he did not understand the frightening reality of his intentions.

“I first met Jen in my Politics of Development class when we sat next to each other one day,” he
recalled. “We never really said much, but I definitely noticed her in class all the time from then on. After
giving it a little thought, I got up the nerve to ask her out, and gave her a call.”

Unfortunately, Mahar had failed to realize a critical fact: he was a stalker.

“I don’t usually ask too many girls out, so I wasn’t sure how it would go,” the 20-year-old economics major
continued. “But I had no idea that she was going to freak out like she did. I guess I just
never realized I’m such a creep.”

BRIEFLY
Thanks to all who submitted!
Photo caption contest winner!

Mahar’s initial call to Kruger was not, in fact, returned. Thinking that maybe she hadn’t received his message, he called
again a few days later.

“I was lucky the second time, because she picked up on the third ring,” Mahar said. “Her roommate must have
been taking a nap or something because she was talking in a really low voice and responding in one-word answers,
sort of the way my dad talks to telemarketers when they call during dinner. I guess my timing wasn’t so
good!”

Forty-five seconds and multiple awkward pauses later, Kruger informed Mahar that she was really, really busy with work right now,
but maybe she would think about it.

“I couldn’t help but feel like she was a little disinterested,” admitted Mahar. “But I can’t blame her. I guess
Ben & Jerry’s is pretty bold for a first, get-to-know-you type of date. And plus I just didn’t realize she’s
so busy. Man, what was I thinking?”

“I know she’s an English major, so that must be constant work,” Mahar continued.

After two weeks and still no word from Kruger, Mahar decided to send her an email, feeling bad about “bothering
her so much over the phone.” He had attempted to catch up with her before and after classes, but found
she always seemed in a hurry to get somewhere.

“I remember thinking it was odd that she would make eye contact with me from across the hall and then
immediately look down at her shoes and rush off like Catawba Nuclear had just exploded,” Mahar recalled. “But now that
I realize I was stalking her, I can’t say I blame her. Frankly, I’m amazed she didn’t just start screaming
right there!”

Mahar also began to notice at this time that Kruger’s friends could frequently be seen pointing at him and giggling
from across the room. The realization that he was a stalker struck home when friend Owen Johnson ’05 informed him
that Kim Newberg ’05 had asked him to “tell his friend Robbie to quit stalking Jenny.”

It soon came to light that Kruger had been...

"I guess Ben & Jerry’s is a little bold for a first date. Never in my strangest dreams..."Thought I was
one of those weirdo stalker kids.” Mahar added that he always assumed stalkers were psychos who watched people with binoculars
from bushes, came after their victims with knives, and looked like that guy in ‘Billy Madison’ who wears the lipstick.
“Fortunately I’ve been made to understand the true nature of stalking from this, my first and last attempt to date
at Davidson,” said Mahar. “In that sense, I've certainly been saved from a nightmarish reality.”

The stalker Mahar has sought help from the student health center, where he hopes to address his problem through weekly
therapy, medication, and perhaps even hypnosis. Kruger declined to comment for this article, but was reported seen in her Sentelle
dorm room with several hall mates discussing her relief that Mahar had ceased his stalking. The conversation soon digressed into
a general discussion about how skewed dating life is on campus, and how it’s so unfair that guys at Davidson
never ask anyone out.

Spreading word of Mahar’s stalking to all of her close friends, who had in turn relayed the information to others.
The reality of being a sketch-ball stalker still comes as a true shock for Mahar, who is only slowly coming
to understand how girls on campus can be perfectly justified in avoiding a guy who they’ve barely exchanged three sentences
with. “I’m an independent and everything; and I guess I spend more time playing Madden than I should, but I'd
at least assumed I was pretty normal,” he said.

Though it has become common practice, it is considered impolite to swipe your CatCard in a girl’s butt. When asking
a member of Campus Outreach Weekly to dance, please recall that this should be followed by marriage and the purchase
of a home. CoHo hosts any number of exciting events throughout the semester that feature dancing and fun in a
clean and relaxed setting. Attend these only if you enjoy body hair.

Needing a beer after hours and finding you’ve forgotten your house punch code is a frustrating experience. Fortunately, all Court
locks are also designed to accept crowbars. Asking a girl out to dinner is an excellent way to get your
weekend evening started. This is especially cost-effective if you require ingestible sustenance. If you ask a Rusk girl, be sure
to bring your Visa and a hand towel. If you notice you're stepping in something particularly sticky and foul-smelling at
a Court party, don’t worry—you’re likely just standing on a PIKA. If you ask a Warner girl, who will not.

Unless you are a member of KA, do not attempt to pair khaki shorts with rainbow flip-flops. This tradition was
begun by General Lee, and is not to be joked with. When some nice boys from SAE bake you some
brownies, it is never in good form to inquire as to the ingredients. Just trust them. If you are a
freshman member of Turner, take pride in the fact that your organization boasts so much young enthusiasm. Just make sure
that next semester you transfer to a real eating house.

Requesting Kenny G at a Phi Delt party is always a great idea for people who enjoy picking the teeth
out of their stool the following morning. If you are white, you might not have the rhythm necessary to dance
to Rap or Hip Hop. Fortunately, you do have the rhythm necessary to perform bad, oversimplified Swing moves. When heading
down to SigEp for a Saturday night basher, don’t forget your homework! There is no better time to get ahead!

Patterson Court Courtesy

Navigating The Court can be a challenging social experience. Knowing what's appropriate and what’s not can go far in making
your weekend activities a success. Be sure to thoroughly launder all shirts before swinging them round yo’ head like a
helicopta. Although the condition of the house and the abundance of camouflage might suggest otherwise, the members of Connor are
in fact women. Looking for an original place to hook up that’s virtually always empty on weekend nights? Try a
FIJI party. If you do nothing else before heading down to the Court on the weekend, make sure you purchase
a PCC sticker. There is simply no way to enter a party without one.
