8 Tue DAVIDSONIAN

TODAY'S NEWS

Headline inserted

Freshman slips dummy tongue
SEE PAGE 18

RLO Vacuum Cleaners: Could they suck more?
SEE PAGE 10

Brickhouse Waitress goes to UNCC, actually
SEE PAGE 11

Libertas maintains standards
SEE PAGE 11

Keyboard cleaned

Seniors Sarah McVane and Jerry Philter hooked up in the Co-Ho basement this Friday, just moments after posing for this
photo at a friend’s engagement party. The hookup has been blamed on too much sparkling cider, and a mutual lack
of options.

HUMOR

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

Humor Section

February 11, 2004

The Davidsonian

Seniors excited about first marriage

MARTIN COURT—Newly-engaged seniors Trey Clark and Charlotte Lancaster announced this weekend that they “couldn’t be more excited” about their first
marriage. The young couple is looking forward to experiencing what will no doubt be a loving and enduring union—until fundamentally
different value systems and life goals will lead to their eventual divorce seven years from now.

“I’ve dreamed of this since I was a little girl,” proclaimed Lancaster, showing off the pear-cut diamond ring that Clark
purchased for $139 on E-bay. “I guess I just never thought the day would come so soon!”

The young pair announced the good news of their engagement to friends and family this Friday, following Clark’s proposal to
Lancaster at the Huntersville area Carrabba’s. In a romantic twist, the proposal coincided with the couple’s five-month “anniversary,” which demarcates
nearly a half-year of their devoted and caring relationship since meeting at the Union foam party last fall.

“I’ve always known I would find my wife at college, and I couldn’t hope for a more beautiful, intelligent woman
than Charlotte,” Clark enthused. “I’m so glad I got that job in Durham, so we can plan the wedding while
Charlotte’s in [Duke] medical school.” The couple plans to marry in December 2004, when they will initiate a devoted and
sacred union that will last a full 72 months before Lancaster realizes Clark is sleeping with his secretary.

“Charlotte and I are perfect for each other,” Clark reflected happily. “We both want a family, and we both hate
pineapple on our pizza. After she finishes med school, I can’t wait to move back home to Wisconsin—we'll probably have
two or three kids by then. And that'll be great, because then my mom can stop casually mentioning to me
that she wants grandkids.”

Sources close to the young pair couldn’t be more confident about the match. “See, Trey and Charlotte are a good
college couple—always working, never spending much time together, hooking up on the weekends,” said Clark’s roommate Jason Davies ’04. “I
just think it’s great that they’re tying the knot so they can finally sit down and get to know each
other.” Davies will in fact be there to witness many key moments in the married lives of his dear friends,
from buying their first car to having their first child to almost killing each other in a fight involving hurled
dinnerware when Clark stumbles home drunk for the fifth time in as many weeks.

So delighted were the couple’s friends that they threw a celebratory “engagement dinner” soon after the announcement. Jeremy Weeks ’04,
Clark’s freshman roommate and planner of the event, said he couldn’t be happier. “God, Trey is such a lucky guy,”
he enthused. “Not only is Charlotte brilliant and gorgeous, but she is utterly amazing in the sack. I mean, so
I’ve heard.”

Frances Price ’04, Charlotte’s closest friend, echoed Weeks’ optimism. “Charlotte is really blessed to have found such a caring and
devoted guy to marry,” she said. “You can just tell that he’s going to be there for her—exactly the kind
of guy who can deal with the stress-induced, massive over-eating problem she’s just barely been able to hide from him
all these months.”

Not wanting to waste any time, Lancaster is currently considering several options for wedding planners and has already rented out
DCPC for the big day. Touchingly, each step of the potentially stressful planning process has only worked to reassure her
of her fiancé’s compatibility.

“Trey is my soulmate,” she said, gazing lustily at a photo of the couple from this year’s Pigapalooza. “I know
he’s going to be supportive of my choice to become a cardiac surgeon, even though it means we'll have to
put off having kids until I finish my residency and stuff.” Lancaster went on to gush about the “trendy apartment
we'll have, maybe in New York or Chicago.” Little does she realize now that her dreams will come true—and the
couple will move into an East Village loft apartment in just five years' time, the site of innumerable screaming matches,
sleepless nights, and Lancaster’s sudden enraged attempt to stab Clark with a grapefruit spoon.

For the groom’s part, the future couldn’t be brighter. “Charlotte is beautiful, and she is amazing,” said Clark, who just
tomorrow will begin compiling the secret collection of shoe-fetish porn that will eventually result in the couple’s enrollment in fourteen
weeks of dreadfully unsuccessful marriage therapy. “She’s the best girl I could have ever settled for.”
