THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2004 3

Crew, Woodrow appropriated as organizations by ATC

By Lypie WHITE
Staff Writer

At last week’s SGA meeting, Crew and Woodrow were appropriated as organizations by the Activities Tax Council (ATC). The SGA also discussed the results of SGA Day and the approvals of the new Martial Arts Club. SGA approved the allocation of $23,000 to Davidson Crew and $1,700 to Woodrow. Davidson Club Baseball was allocated $1,400 by the ATC, but as a new organization, it is technically constrained to just $250. Because it is a club sport, the team could be entitled to more, but the issue raised the question of how valid the restraint is if it does not apply to publications or club sports. SGA plans to reconsider this point in the bylaws. After the approval of the Davidson Crew and Woodrow appropriations, the ATC budget balance stands at $25,041.70.

Last Wednesday’s SGA Day was “a great success” according to SGA President Katharine Hubbard ’05. About 30 students signed up for various committees, and many more attended the event. “Our greatest resources are the students,” said event coordinator and Senior Class President Claire DeBord ’05.

SGA approved the creation of a new Martial Arts Club. Joshua Choi ’08, the new organization’s president, said that the primary goal of the Davidson Martial Arts Club “is to create a safer campus environment by training the mind and body to eliminate unnecessary conflicts.” Classes are to be held weekly for intermediates and twice a month for beginners. Initial auditions will be held to designate these groups.

SGA also finalized plans to use the Vamanos Van as transportation to the polls on Election Day. Final plans regarding actual times and locations will be posted later in the week. SGA also discussed the possibility of increasing relations and awareness of trustee meetings and decisions.

Leave, from page 1

managerial staff, who receive more vacation days to begin with. The change was prompted when a group of faculty members, led by Assistant Professor of Spanish Kyra Kietrys and Assistant Professor of Theater Sharon Green, approached the executive staff last May to express concern with the former policy. “As the policy stood at that point, both the new mother and the new child had to accommodate the college,” said Assistant Professor of Theater Maggie McCarthy. The group presented a proposal that included information about the maternity policies at peer institutions. Their research revealed that while some institutions’ policies were equally or less generous than Davidson’s policy, many afforded a more comprehensive plan. Kietrys said that the old policy did not grant women enough time to physically recover from childbirth. “Teaching one less class means you are still teaching at least one, and having to be away from your newborn,” she said. “The new policy recognizes that childbirth is a real physical condition that has repercussions on a woman’s body, from which it needs time to recover.”

President Bobby Vagt, Dean of Faculty Clark Ross, and Sorenson reviewed the policy over the summer. “Compared to other liberal arts colleges, we saw that some colleges had more generous family leave policies than ours, and some less so,” Sorensen said. “We didn’t feel like any great injustice was going on, but we did believe that the proposal that the faculty put forth warranted a review.” Kietrys said the new policy shows the administration’s willingness to reevaluate standing policies and implement changes that benefit the college community. “At the same time, it also raises some very important questions regarding mothering versus fathering and traditionally defined gender roles, as well as issues concerning a comparable policy for staff, and even employees without children but with other family needs,” she said. Sorensen said that response to the new policy had been positive. “It fits our culture and adds to the community in an appropriate way,” he said.

Debate, from page 1

“I would rather have our President consider seven wrong answers and reach the right conclusion than stay steadfast on the wrong conclusion,” he said. Adams focused on Bush’s domestic and international accomplishments and praised his consistency as a leader. “The challenges our nation faces may change with time and the leaders we elect will change as well,” he said. “But if there is one thing about America that should never change, it’s our principles.” While the event was a success overall, reactions to the debates varied widely among individual spectators. Although stating that both sides presented strong, valid arguments, Barshefsky said that the “Democratic side tended to rely more on fact.and the Republicans relied more on personal attack, which was unfortunate.”

Scott Buckhout ’07 provided an alternative perspective. “The Republicans were more off the cuff, which made them seem more confident in their ability to communicate Bush’s political issues,” he said. “The Democrats were well-prepared and excited. However, they seemed to stick more to their notes.”

For many students and community members, the event is an invaluable part of Davidson’s political culture. “The debate exemplified a full and fair exchange of ideas from people across the country, which really reflects the spirit of Davidson,” Barshefsky said. “It’s a great tradition.”

A foreign policy debate took place Sunday night between Andrew Yancey ’05 and Adams and was moderated by Dennis Appleyard, James B. Duke Professor of International Studies and Professor and Chair of Economics. Each student delivered 10-minute opening statements, followed by fielding direct questions from their opponent and the audience.

Edelman, from page 1

insatiable military and false patriotism as government problems, and stubborn ideology, arrogance/hubris, and non-voting/complaining as problems that American citizens face.

Edelman ultimately left her audience with optimism toward the people’s ability to motivate the government to address these problems. “Enough fleas biting strategically can move the biggest dog,” said Edelman, echoing one of Truth’s quotes and encouraging the audience to vote.

Edelman was awarded a Doctor of Humane Letters for her unselfish dedication to humanity. Edelman was born in 1939 and raised in South Carolina. She attended Spelman College and later Yale Law School. In Mississippi, she became the first African-American to pass the bar exam. Her most memorable accomplishment was the establishment of the Children’s Defense Fund (CDF) in 1973. CDF is a private, nonprofit organization whose “research, public education campaigns, budget and policy advocacy, and coalition building have contributed to millions of children gaining immunizations, health care, child care, Head Start, a right to education, adoptions, a chance to escape poverty, and protections in our child welfare, mental health, and juvenile justice systems.”

Edelman has been awarded the Albert Schweitzer Humanitarian Prize, the Heinz Award, and a MacArthur Foundation Prize Fellowship. She also was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian award in the country, and the Robert F. Kennedy Lifetime Achievement Award. Edelman has also written seven books.

One member each of the sophomore, junior, and senior classes received Goodwin-Exxon awards. Established by Henry S. Goodwin ’30 and funded in part by the Exxon Foundation, these awards go to students who exemplify the highest standards of character, good sportsmanship, and consideration toward others. This year’s recipients were Derrick Thompson ’07, Steven Gentile ’06, and Jacquin Gilchrist ’05. Because the football team was in San Diego, Thompson received the award via pre-recorded video.

“Enough fleas biting strategically can move the biggest dog.” --Convocation speaker and founder of the Children’s Defense Fund Marian Wright Edelman

In addition, the Thomas Jefferson Award for exceptional teaching was awarded to Appleyard. “With determination and diligence, humility and concern, he sets daily an example of all that we—faculty, students, and staff—espouse to be,” said Vice President of Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty Clark Ross.

“There are so many outstanding faculty members at Davidson that I’m simply overwhelmed by this honor,” said Appleyard.

In a tie for the highest academic average during the freshman year, Deborah Tarwasokono ’07 and Rebecca Taylor ’07 both received the Alumni Association Freshman Award.

“Convocation is a celebration of people and ideas, and Saturday’s gathering was an inspiring collection of both. From the students who were honored to Professor Appleyard to Marian Edelman, we were treated to an awesome representation of service, leadership, and integrity,” said President Bobby Vagt.

The QEP is a campus-wide endeavor. It should:
1. Show a direct link to student learning
2. Specify its target student population
3. Demonstrate a connection to previously unaddressed or under-addressed issues
4. Produce measurable results

Bring Your Ideas!!!
Thursday, October 28th: 4 PM
Hance Auditorium (4th floor of Chambers - formerly Perkins Auditorium)

CAMPUS-WIDE FORUM
All Students, Faculty, and Staff are invited to a campus-wide forum to discuss the upcoming SACS (Southern Association of Colleges and Schools) Reaffirmation of Accreditation for Davidson College. As part of the accreditation process, the campus community is asked to generate ideas for a QEP (Quality Enhancement Plan). The QEP is intended to result in “a course of action for institutional improvement that addresses one or more issues that contribute to institutional quality, with special attention to student learning.”