Viena satin cat anoint ‘Big

By Steve Kaliski
Senior Staff Writer

To the list of relative certainties in the world, which at last check included death and taxes, you can now safely add that all movies opening in January are awful. “The Big Bounce,” the most widely promoted release during this month in which studios reliably dump their rankest offerings on the market, proves just that.

In a season dominated by Oscar nominees and December leftovers, let’s review some of the winter treats that have recently opened in wide release: “The Butterfly Effect,” whose lead actor is the riveting Ashton Kutcher; “Along Came Polly,” a movie whose preview got only one laugh, and that came from a sweaty, hairy, shirtless porker; and “Torque,” from the producers of the stellar “S.W.A.T.” and “XXX.” And now, with “The Big Bounce,” we have a movie for which you could surely put some money on the line. Featuring Owen Wilson, Morgan Freeman, Gary Sinise, Charlie Sheen, and Willie Nelson (yes, Willie Nelson), it has a cast that should be right on target. What’s more, it’s adapted for the screen from an Elmore Leonard crime novel by director George Armitage, whose “Grosse Point Blank” is a Cusack-cult classic.

Don’t be fooled. “The Big Bounce” is so unbelievably awful that it scientifically confirms the existence of a January curse. Plot? Well, I’m not taking too much of a liberty when I say that “Bounce” is the simplest movie ever made. Jack Ryan (Wilson) and Girl-in-a-Bikini (Sara Foster) plan to walk into a Hawaiian house and take $200,000 from Ray Ritchie (Sinise). I may be forgetting some of the finer points, but I don’t think so. At less than 90 minutes, “Bounce” also executes the incredibly brilliant move of waiting until 45 minutes into the movie to unveil this genius plot to its eager audience. Until then, we must watch the bored Wilson goggle over Girl-in-a-Bikini, talk trash with the fearsome Sheen, and joylessly interact with the unnecessary Freeman, who must have gotten lost on his way to another set.

This movie is so simple, in fact, that I was completely confused by its ending. Without giving away any of the juicy details, I asked my friend at the closing credits if he understood what had just happened. He said “yes” and proceeded to explain in one phrase the climax and the resolution. I thought his obvious response was intended as condescending and sarcastic, but in reality, it thoroughly summed up this shameful movie.

For a major studio release, “The Big Bounce” also delivers some of the most amateurish directing and editing in recent memory. Visually, it makes little sense, jumping from one shot to another without basic transitions. It looks as if the editor hacked the celluloid with a chainsaw and then glued it cluelessly back together.

In “Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back,” Kevin Smith created a scene that simulates what would happen if there were ever a sequel to “Good Will Hunting.” In this sketch, “Hunting” director Gus Van Sant locks himself in a room to count his money while Ben Affleck and Matt Damon run the shoot themselves. I wouldn’t be surprised if this were the case for Armitage and “The Big Bounce.” Small scenes that have enormous potential actually crash and burn under Armitage’s ambivalent direction. In one, Girl-in-a-Bikini tries to play both Sheen and Wilson simultaneously without them knowing it. What could be an elaborate set piece is so awkward and boring that all I remember is Foster running from one man to the other without motivation. This scene has the skeleton of comedy but nothing more.

Oh, Morgan Freeman, why do you choose these projects? Do yourself a favor; fire your agent the next time he hands you a January script, even if it’s the sequel to “Shawshank.”

The Big Bounce
Directed by: George Armitage
Written by: Sebastian Gutierrez
Starring: Owen Wilson, Morgan Freeman, Sara Foster, Charlie Sheen
Runtime: 89 minutes

Note to naughty Belk lab users: computers exist in public space

By Kayleen Hartman
Senior Staff Writer

College is an exercise in redefining space. Your home and your office are one and the same. Your school life and your social life are divided only by the thin semantic barrier between “up the hill” and “down the hill.” Your kitchen, if you live in a dorm, is designated as the three square feet of space around your sink and your microwave. No doubt, it requires aCareful thinker to navigate the difference between public and private space at any college. The computer labs in particular flesh out this conflict. Ostensibly a highly public space, this is a room where people sit side-by-side in full view of one another for hours at a time, filing in and out as the labs open and close each day, dutifully reading, typing, and chatting away in this little technologically enhanced microcosm. I have recently been privy to a series of complaints about the hygiene situation in the computer labs. The problem, it seems, is that a series of strangers put their hands on the same set of keys all day, swapping germs and bacteria with no regard for public health. Mmm, ok, but this situation is no better or worse than the door handle to the Ladies room, or the desktops in Chambers, right? Oh, no. The nature of the computer lab is different. Lulled into complacency by the soft electronic buzz, the mental exhaustion and the fact that it’s OK to show up in slippers, people begin to manifest behaviors more typical of private space. Specifically, students—particularly male students—feel free to touch their privates in public. It’s a phenomenon that seems almost unconscious. Absorbed in the sphere of his own intense academic thoughts, the Davidson student pauses, leans back in his chair, stretches, yawns and then goes right for the family jewels, scratching and rubbing away in ecstatic oblivion. This I understand to be a relaxing and therapeutic exercise, one that is perfectly suited to a stressful activity like paper writing or studying. The unfortunate problem is that he then removes his hands and without a thought or care places them squarely on the keyboard. When I was young, and my mother was attempting to teach her three tomboys some semblance of manners, she began at the dinner table. The lesson was simple. “Community, personal” she preached, as she distributed mashed potatoes and macaroni and cheese from the “community” serving bowls, to the “personal” dinner plates of each of her girls. My two-year-old sister reached over to my plate and stealthily grabbed a fistful of my macaroni and cheese, which she began to shove into her grinning mouth. “No, no, no, Micah,” my mom chastised. “Personal, personal.” Clearly, females also struggle with this vague distinction between community and personal. It’s a distinction that is further muddied by the principle of 24-hour labs, which go uninhabited for long stretches of time in the wee morning hours and the late weekend nights, making this public space feel a little more private. That’s when the girls cut loose. An eyewitness reports, “The other day, I walked into the computer lab when no one else was around, and a girl was masturbating. No kidding. When she saw me come in, though, she pulled her hands out of her pants quickly and just kept on typing. And yes, I’m sure she was masturbating.” Let’s examine this closely. First of all, I love that she was masturbating, and I love even more that she felt comfortable enough to do it right then and there, even though clearly it was not a well thought-out plan. What I do not love is that she immediately takes her hands from her private space and smears them all over the public property in front of her. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what antibacterial soap is for. The Golden Rule applies here as it does everywhere else in life. Unless you relish the thought of typing in another student’s private juices, try to keep yours off the community keyboards. I think that this rule is fair. Or better yet, simply get up from the computer and take a quick trip to the bathroom to conduct your private affairs without fear of the public eye. You will find the sink conveniently adjacent. “But the computers automatically log you off!” some students may complain. But they give you 15 minutes, and if you know what you’re doing, that should be more than enough time. Besides, we all have community network space we can save to and it’s time we learned how to use it. My little sister eventually learned to eat off of her own plate (years later, she even progressed to a fork!) Surely we too can make efforts as a community to understand better the necessary distinctions between public and private space. But in the meantime, boys and girls, sit tight, and choose Lysol.