Tue DAvIDSONIAN

By Derek Lou
Special Contributor

With a tone characterized by dark hues, “Girl with a Pearl Earring” affects the audience with a mood so somber that a simple shot of a vibrant blue powder elicits gasps. The film proves that excitement is a relative emotion and is not the product only of loud noises and fast things. In “Girl with a Pearl Earring,” it’s the product of quiet performances, a subtle script, and detailed framing and lighting.

Scarlett Johansson stars as Griet, a Puritan girl sent to work in the house of Johannes Vermeer, a painter in seventeenth-century Delft, Holland. Vermeer (Colin Firth) lives with his wife, children, and mother-in-law-cum-broker. Peter Webber’s direction and Olivia Hetreed’s script show a place where jealousy permeates, where children and adults scheme, and where Judy Parfitt’s Maria Thins, an austere mother-in-law, rules unchallenged.

When cleaning one day, Griet discovers her master’s works and regards them in silent awe: only her face reveals her thoughts. While Johansson may not be a convincing Puritan, she’s undeniable as a critic and — professional and sexual — admirer of Vermeer. Two silent sequences demonstrate that the performance is more than a series of reaction shots. In one scene, the audience reads Griet’s expressions as she contemplates the position of a chair. With few words and much eroticism, the other scene explains why she runs to the butcher’s son for sex.

The artist recognizes her interest in his work and arranges Griet’s move to the attic, which is closer to the studio. He trusts her to mix his paints and critique his work, and when Maria Thins notes his increased work rate, the audience understands that the maid also inspires the master. Though he has an inspiration and, arguably, a fellow artist, Vermeer has a new baby to feed and financial troubles (even the long-time neighbors have gone bankrupt). His mother-in-law, the house manager, arranges a dinner with Van Ruijven (Tom Wilkinson), who agrees to commission yet another painting, one of Griet for his “personal cabinet.” Griet’s recognition stirs the house. Maria Thins bribes Griet to keep the details from her daughter, and the daughter, Catharina (Essie Davis), spends the last third of the film quivering with jealousy and insecurity.

The film speculates that the commissioned painting became “Girl with a Pearl Earring,” and the movie handles the details of its creation well. One astonishing scene places Johansson against that famous black background, and as she turns her head and poses, the audience knows that she is a stretch as ‘The Girl’s look-alike. However, their different looks matter little when their tones and effects are so similar. Johansson is perfect.

Eduardo Serra received a well-deserved Oscar nomination for his photography. In a movie that fictionalizes the life of a master of light, the cinematography should at least try to echo his style. It’s not often that a cinematographer’s work manages to be obvious and successful, but for the most part, Serra succeeds. One trivial complaint: the scene in which Griet smiles and reflects light off a metal bowl and onto a wall is, perhaps, too deliberate. The film is full of small secrets (Why does Vermeer...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

...his wife dread his studio?) and hidden allegiances that not only hold attention but also lend credibility and tension to the film’s climax. As a result, the end feels contrived, but, like everything else in the film, it is so understated that the movie remains engrossing even when the story becomes melodrama: when his wife confronts him and asks why he must paint Griet and not her, Vermeer replies, “Because she understands!” Thank goodness, the art historians and Van Ruijven must think, that Mr. and Mrs. Vermeer didn’t go to couples therapy.

LIVING MOVIE EXTRAS/ MODELS NEEDED
Local and statewide productions
No exp. req. all looks ages 18+
Minor and major roles avail.
EARN UP TO $300/DAY
1-800-818-7520

Good Deal skiing
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2004

NC’s Sugar Mountain
By MELISSA MILLAR
Special Contributor

“I figured out my line. Nollie backside 180 to switch underflip to cab7. It’s gonna be sick.” This bit of conversation may catch your ears if you happen to be cruising around Aspen, or even our own little piece of extreme paradise—Sugar Mountain, NC. Apart from Sugar, there are several other places you can go to get your frontside 450 to backside lipslide on lockdown. Confused? Don’t worry, it’s easy and fun to learn and immerse yourself in the culture of shredding (translation: snowboarding and freeskiing). Here’s some guidance:

North Carolina, while no Brighton or Park City Utah (which average annual snowfalls of 500+ inches a year), boasts its own areas where sliding down snow-covered golf courses can be enjoyed by everyone. The beauty of this is that if flying to Denver doesn’t work into your weekend schedule, a two-hour drive to Boone, NC might be inviting. You can ride or ski at one of four ski areas within the two-hour radius, all of which are ideal places to acquire a great goggles tan. Appalachia has that down-home-mountains-of-Carolina vibe. While the biggest and most ski-able area is Sugar Mountain, its neighbor Beech Mountain offers almost as many runs as Sugar does and Hawksnest Ski Resort is laid back and friendly. While it can be pricey (Sugar charges $53 for an adult day lift ticket on the weekends, Hawksnest $22 and Beech $48), you can find deals that won’t empty your pockets during your quest for some powder slashes.

This year has been quite consistent in its artificial snow making temperatures, and some of the natural stuff falls every couple days. If you are especially ambitious, jump in your SUV, and six CDs later you can be riding one of Snowshoe Mountain’s 57 runs. I was just there, and the conditions are fantastic. Although it’s a bit of a drive, the extensive area, high-speed chairlifts, and abundant natural snow makes Snowshoe the best place to try those new twin tips you got for Christmas. The après-ski activities are sure to entertain in the Whistler-modeled slope-side village, and these skiers and snowboarders are notoriously rowdy when it comes to throwing down in the bars. Be warned though: staying at Snowshoe can get really expensive since there is no alternative in the middle of rural West Virginia. The most economical and convenient option is The Inn at Snowshoe.

It may seem like winter is never going to end, but you only have about a month and a half to learn 1080s, so grab your X-screams (or whatever you choose to slide on) and go carve some fat euros in the pow-pow (so to speak). For more info, visit www.skinc.com or www.snowshoewv.com.