6 By VIRGINIA GREGORY AND ANDREW SCHAPIRO Restaurant Reviewers

We arrived at The Black Oak Grille expecting to find exceptional American cuisine. We knew that the chef had graduated
from the Culinary Institute of America and had heard many favorable reviews through the grapevine. Perhaps, we thought, this will
be one of those diamonds in the rough that serves exceptional food in an understated atmosphere.

The most impressive aspect of The Black Oak Grille is that each dish is made from scratch, resulting in fresh,
distinct flavors. The most outstanding of these was the She Crab soup. The soup’s sweet, creamy base was accented by
savory bits of crab to provide a perfect contrast of texture and flavor. This was the one dish that made
our meal memorable. The others were in no way dissatisfying, but they just did not have enough appeal to justify
the commute to the University Area.

Served with routine tri-colored tortilla chips, the spinach dip was run of the mill at best. Tender meat fell off
the bones of baby back ribs, and the chipotle barbeque sauce which coated them added a nice twist. The chicken
and black bean combo, which consisted of yellow rice topped with black beans and pulled rotisserie chicken, was much less
impressive. We found the dish to be rather bland, especially since ours arrived at the table without the cheese and
onions that were included in its description on the menu. We asked for the queso sauce on the side and
were glad to have done so since it seemed out of place. A homemade salsa might have been more appropriate.

For those who love their vegetables, The Black Oak Grille offers 13 choices, which according to owner Bob Poole are
all homemade and healthy. Both the garlic smashed red potatoes and the smashed sweet potatoes were creamy and well-seasoned. Slivers
of sweet onions and pieces of pork provided the BBQ baked beans with a hearty texture and complex, smoky flavor.
The Caesar salad was standard, coated in a garlicky dressing that was made in-house like all of the dressings. The
Black Oak Grille also offers a variety of typical entree salads and sandwiches, which would be more suitable for lunch.
A favorite among customers is the fire-roasted filet mignon sandwich. The desserts were nothing extraordinary, with selections like cheesecake, chocolate
cake, and carrot cake.

The Black Oak Grille’s interior sits in limbo between that of an informal neighborhood restaurant and a fast food chain.
The fast service and mismatched decorative elements are hardly conducive to leisurely dining. Everything about its exterior speaks to suburban
shopping mall dining; however, the interior decoration appears significantly cheaper. Mirrors and unoriginal art dot cinderblock walls painted red and
yellow, while artificial plants hang from a ceiling rife with exposed ductwork. Booths are abundant at the Black Oak Grille,
though they are constructed of little more than glazed plywood. Overall, the unbroken space, with ample seating and high ceilings,
induces a feeling of emptiness and solidarity.

Like McAllister’s Deli, customers order upon entering The Black Oak Grille and are then given a number and served at
the table of their choice. Laminated menus elaborate upon the items listed above the ordering counter. We found the service
to be prompt and friendly, but we could not help questioning why an ordering system efficient for lunchtime crowds has
not been refined for evening dining. Furthermore, self-service drinks and Styrofoam cups seem out of place in a restaurant that
uses ceramic plates and metal flatware. We were also a bit surprised to find a glass-doored refrigerator displaying some of
the entrees under harsh fluorescent lights. The restaurant’s most impressive feature, a rotisserie oven that slowly rotates chickens, was hidden
in a corner behind the counter. Lackluster decorations give the impression that Black Oak Grille’s decor fails to produce atmosphere.

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 17, 2004

Photo by Virginia Gregory

Poole designed the interior himself or perhaps hardly changed it from the pre-existing rotisserie restaurant. In its favor, the restaurant
was well kept, and employees had prematurely begun decorating for Christmas. Food far outweighs decor and service as the most
successful element.The Black Oak Grille failed to live up to our expectations given its professionally trained chef and the tough
competition in the area. More successful versions of many of the dishes like rotisserie chicken and barbeque ribs can be
found closer to Davidson. We hesitate to recommend the trek to The Black Oak Grille.

The Black Oak Grille
9311 J W Clay Blvd.
Charlotte, NC 28262
(704)-503-3335
Open for lunch and dinner every day except Sunday.

Broadway revue will feature favorites of past showstoppers

A movie version of “Phantom of the Opera” will be coming to theaters over Christmas break.

By MICHAEL CAVELL
Staff Writer

This Saturday, the sounds of Broadway will visit Davidson as students of voice teacher Jacquelyn Culpepper perform in Broadway Revue,
a concert featuring selections from Broadway classics. Culpepper’s voice studio, including fourteen Davidson students and one high school student, is
sure to wow the audience when students perform in Tyler-Tallman Hall in the Sloan Music Building.

Culpepper, an artist associate here at Davidson, has performed over 85 roles in opera and oratorio, sung as a guest
artist with symphony orchestras, and performed the music of Broadway. Said Culpepper of what song being performed in Broadway Revue
was her favorite, “Can’t tell my favorites or the kids might be disappointed if it wasn’t theirs!”

The first half of the show will feature songs from “A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum,”
“Into the Woods,” “Gigi,” “Carousel,” “Les Miserables,” “Evita,” “Phantom of the Opera,” and other Broadway classics.

“Into the Woods,” first performed on November 5, 1987, is a blend of various fairy tales, causing characters, such as
Little Red Riding Hood, to run into others such as Cinderella and Rapunzel. It also details what happens after “happily
ever after.”

“A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum” is a Broadway production with music and lyrics by Stephen
Sondheim. The plot of this musical centers around a slave named Pseudolus who attempts to gain his freedom by arranging
a marriage between his master’s son and a beautiful courtesan. Many of the situations in the play are taken directly
from the plays of the Roman playwright, Titus Maccius Plautus.

“Gigi” is set in turn-of-the-century Paris and tells the story of a rich playboy and a youthful courtesan. Set between
1873 and 1888, “Carousel” takes place in a New England fishing village and tells the story of a love affair
between a traveling carnival man and a local factory worker.

“Les Miserables,” “Evita,” and “Phantom of the Opera,” all popular favorites from the 1980s, are also sure to be a
treat for listeners during the first half of the performance. “Les Miserables” follows the journey of one man after he
breaks his parole and travels through France and the student uprisings of the 19th century. “Phantom of the Opera” focuses
on the Phantom’s obsession with the singer, Christine, while “Evita” tells the story of Evita Peron, first lady of Argentina.

The second half will feature selections from “West Side Story,” the classic musical with music by Leonard Bernstein and lyrics
by Sondheim. One interesting fact about the Broadway Revue performances is that Sondheim wrote the lyrics for “West Side Story,”
and the first half begins and ends with songs featuring lyrics by Sondheim.

What should students expect to see at Broadway Revue? Said Culpepper, “This is basically a concert with some staging and
movement. There are no sets and minimal costumes, very ‘workshop’ and informal. There were no auditions as it is a
project that has been generated from the students who study voice with me. It’s going to be fun!”

As Culpepper notes, the Broadway Revue was an idea originated by voice students at Davidson interested in creating opportunities to
perform in the musical theater venue. The Broadway Revue will begin at 8:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday and admission
is free, so there’s no excuse to miss this exciting event.

“West Side Story” is a modern retelling of “Romeo and Juliet,” taking place in New York.
