4 Tue DAVIDSONIAN

A member of the Catholic Campus Ministry tells prospectives about the organization at Decision Davidson’s Activity Fair.

News

Prospective students impressed, influenced by Decision Davidson

By Blair McGraw
Senior Staff Writer

High school seniors from across the country descended upon the campus this past weekend for Scholars Weekend and for Decision Davidson 2004.

Over 200 prospective students from 24 states and two foreign countries were at Davidson by Saturday to make a final decision about choosing a college.

Decision Davidson is “one of the most important events for admitted students,” said Sally Stone Richmond, Associate Dean of Admission and Financial Aid. “A large percentage of students who attend these events choose to enroll.”

“I knew [Davidson] was a nice place, but now it’s pretty amazing.”
--Decision Davidson attendee

On Friday, students who have been awarded scholarships and those still in competition attended classes, heard from the Board of Trustees, and participated in final interviews. Saturday’s events included a welcome from President Bobby Vagt, faculty presentations, and roundtable discussions with current Davidson students.

“[Prospective] students are incredibly impressed by the faculty,” said Richmond.

Senior Admission Counselor Anna Meadows said prospective students also “really appreciate current students’ honesty about their experiences.”

Decision Davidson seemed to impress many potential students of the class of 2008.

“[I had] a lot of opportunity to interact with students,” said Darryl Ratcliff II, from outside Dallas, Texas. “Overall it made me realize Davidson is a place where I can spend the next four years of my life.”

His only complaint was about his sleeping conditions. “Make sure the host has an extra bed or at least a carpeted floor,” he said.

Prospective student Juan Ramirez said, “[Scholars Weekend] was actually my second time here, but I got a better impression of the college. I knew it was a nice place, but now it’s pretty amazing.”

Richmond said some prospective students attend Decision Davidson primarily to meet potential classmates. “These students come to meet each other and see who might be in their class,” she said.

“I met some wonderful people, especially my fellow scholars,” said Ratcliff. “It reinforced that there are a lot of nice people at Davidson.”

Lauren Kennedy from Philadelphia said, “It was fun, a good opportunity to meet the other kids who will be in my class.” Kennedy said Decision Davidson was beneficial for her final decision.

As over 150 students stayed overnight on Saturday, Richmond wanted to thank the entire college community, including trustees, faculty, staff, and current students who “work so well with us.”

“Everybody has played a part in this, and we’re putting our best foot forward,” said Meadows.

PORTA SA

“PANINI”
FERRUCCI’S OLD TYME ITALIAN MARKET

Cornelius on the Green * I-77 Exit 28
704-896-3190 * www.ferruccis.com

$4.99

WEDNESDAY, April 21, 2004

“April at the Lake” successful, may become permanent event

By JACKIE McKeon
Staff Writer

Sunny skies and warm weather drew an estimated 400 to 500 students last Friday to April at the Lake, an afternoon featuring live music, sailing, and a cookout.

In light of last Friday’s success, it is possible that April at the Lake will become a spring fixture at Davidson.

SGA member and April at the Lake co-organizer Wilson McCrory ’07 said, “I am hoping to make April at the Lake an annual event, and I have submitted a proposal to the ‘Improve Davidson Fund’ for next year.”

Joel Hewett ’07 said, “It was nice to escape from campus, but to not feel as if you had left everyone behind.”

Co-organizer Walker Saik ’06 said, “I saw a lot of different people from various groups on campus all hanging out together. That’s what Davidson College should be about: everyone taking the time to lay back for a while after school on Friday and enjoying the beautiful weather together.”

SGA, Union Board, and PCC teamed up to provide students with the opportunity to relax while enjoying the recreational opportunities of the Lake Campus.

ATC and Union Board provided $6,000 to finance the event.

The Vamonos Van was available to bring students to the Lake Campus from 3 to 7 p.m.

Live music was performed by “Monticello Road,” a Virginia-based band which featured “southern rock with a college twist.”

“Monticello Road” was well-received by students.

Emily Kota ’07 said, “The band created a very relaxed environment.”

April at the Lake will be back again at the end of this week.

In order to jump-start Spring Frolics weekend, activities will be occurring on Thursday, April 22 from 7 to 11 p.m.

Students can look forward to a bonfire on the beach, s’mores, and a performance by “Oops...”

Friday, April 30 will be the last opportunity this year for students to take advantage of April at the Lake.

Above: The Virginia-based band Monticello Road performed live music at the Lake Campus. The band played “southern rock with a college twist.”

Left: Students take a sailboat onto Lake Norman.

Below: A group of students relaxes on the grass during April at the Lake. Between 400 and 500 students attended the event.

Photos by Ryan Thompson