found in closet SEE PAGE 14 8:30 skipped Fe Ee steno Well still old 14 « Court-goer likes it when
you shake it right thurr SEE PAGE 17 Angry music major has scores to settle | SEE PAGE 23 ORTA
UBERTAS DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER VOLUME ONE NO. TWO

Illusion of real cable to shut students up about wanting cable for at least a while

SPRINKLE ROOM—In a decision nearly two years in the making, the Student Government Association confirmed plans last week for the
campus-wide installation of fictitious mystery cable. While school administrators have no intention of ever installing real cable on campus, the
illusionary prospect of cable is expected to pacify those making a stink about it just long enough for them to
graduate.

“The President Bobby Vagt has approved the SGA resolution for Cable in the dorm rooms,” wrote SGA President Charles Washington
in a recent campus-wide e-mail entitled “Cat cards! Cable! Elections! Tee-shirts!” “Installation will begin shortly.”

Just seconds later the student body received a second e-mail, intended as clarification of Washington’s original statement. “Installation will begin
shortly” is a bit misleading [...] New cable service will not be available in the dorms before next semester—at the
earliest!”

“This doesn’t surprise me at all,” commented Robert Turner, a symbologist in Davidson’s anthropology department and long-time follower of the
student political scene. “What Charles is trying to say is that there is no intention for the installation of actual
cable on campus. His use of this symbol: ~ is in fact code for ‘don’t fool your damn selves.’ Fictitious
mystery cable is what you kids are getting.”

According to SGA officials, however, the installation of actual cable couldn’t be more on schedule. In fact, Washington’s e-mail stated
that the school merely needs to “explore an array of options before committing to a carrier for cable service.”

“We are currently conducting a careful weighing and analysis of the sole cable provider in the greater North Carolina area,”
explained SGA Senator Josh Bedford ’05, sponsor of the cable resolution. “We just want to make sure that when we
eventually go with that one option, we’ve adequately weighed it against the complete lack of other possibilities.”

Despite the SGA’s optimism, Turner feels students shouldn’t start reaching for the remote just yet. In fact, he suggests that
the current situation is representative of a long-standing tradition of conducting campus business.

According to Turner’s theory, which he’s currently terming the “Outpost Effect,” the administration will clumsily defer on a concept that
is highly popular with the student body, allowing class after class to graduate until no one on campus can remember
what it was they were originally so in favor of.

“This tactic has been used again and again by high level administrators on any number of issues,” explained Turner. “Students
often fail to realize that they have a relatively short life span on this campus. In the end, the house
always wins.”

“I mean, think about it,” Turner continued. “Do you really think we have eating houses because they’re popular? God no,
seniors hate them. But freshmen love them—and seniors are graduating.”

While the administration had attempted to beat around the issue of cable over the past years, the large-scale fuss created
by the SGA forced them to take more drastic measures of pacification. Fictitious mystery cable provided the ideal solution.

“There’s no question about it,” said Turner. “You kids are getting played like a two dollar banjo. The only people
getting actual cable out of this thing are the juniors living in hall lounges.”

Concerns over bringing cable to campus in the first place were, in fact, numerous. Some fears were raised, for instance,
that cable would monopolize students’ free time, causing them to zone out in front of a television set instead of
actually talking to one another. To assume they would do otherwise is to take any number of unorthodox risks, such
as, for example, actually treating students like adults.

Further concerns were expressed over the effects cable watching will have on students’ academic performance, possibly leading to lower GPAs.
Fortunately, such worries were quelled when people realized that GPAs at Davidson can’t realistically get any lower.

Ultimately, the pro-cable camp won out. Chief among their arguments were the numerous benefits associated with cable television, such as
The Bird Channel, and the long-term honing of students’ valuable looking skills.

An additional argument proceeded from the logic that offering students cable is simply extending them a service they were accustomed
to enjoying before arriv-

WEATHER WATCH

Freak snowstorm creates dangerous Walk of Shame School to upgrade preparedness

MARTIN COURT—Unexpected snowfall on the morningOf Sunday Jan. 25 left campus Walk of Shamers with two equally unpleasant options: either
brave the harsh conditions outside or brave conversation with their drunken hookup partners. Of course, virtually everyone was outside by
10:00 a.m. “It was basically brave the ice or break the ice,” commented Vicky Garson ’07, a first-time walker departing
Ryburn for Richardson. “Well, I certainly was not about to talk to whoever that was I'd just had sex with,
so I braved it. Little did I know how dangerous a few inches of snow could be when you're in
heels and a mini-skirt.”

Julia Peters ’04, who makes it a point to watch every Walk of Shame from her third Flowe balcony, described
the scene below. “God, it was horrible,” she recalled. “People falling everywhere, bodies strewn from here to Commons... and not
a single one of them in a coat.” While the majority of the damage was limited to colds and sprained
ankles, the most serious injury befell veteran walker Jonathan Olson ’05, who lost his pinky finger to frostbite. “People keep
asking me, ‘Jon, why didn’t you just put your hand in a pocket?” said Olson, resident of first Duke. “I
have to tell them that, duh, I would have lost my cowboy hat otherwise. I mean com’on, it’s not my
pinky finger that’s getting me laid.”

The small minority who decided to stay in bed were greeted with late-morning surprises of their own. “Yeah, I was
really stunned to see Mike [Colvin ’04] when I woke up,” said Shelly Swendiman ’06. “Honestly, I thought I was
going home with one of his roommates. But hey, it turns out we have a class together.” Jimmy Taft ’06
had a different experience. “I didn’t think it would be that awkward to talk to Janice [Black ’04] that morning,”
he recalled. “But after a few hours of silence I got the hint and went back to Wes... I mean
Tomlinson.”

Responding to the crisis, school administrators have embarked on an ambitious new program to make sure such disaster never happens
again. Every Senior Apartment will now be outfitted with plenty of heavy coats and walking shoes, and the Dean of
Students Office is considering submitting Walk of Shame snow delays for announcement on local radio. Experts are also looking into
investing.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SGA states plans for fictitious mystery cable

Proponents of this line of reasoning have also encouraged the SGA to pursue immediate legislation for more fruit roll-ups and
recess. “I’m just honored to say our cause won out,” said a cheerful Bedford. “There’s now no question about it:
the Davidson political machine works.” He then added something about sending his opposition all the way back to Crrrrrrrawford, Texas.

Still, there are concerns on the horizon. “I just think it’s amusing that they were once again unable to screw
the freshmen class out of getting a service provided to everyone else,” said Turner, referring to President Vagt’s overturn of
the SGA’s original resolution which gave cable to everyone but ‘smelly freshmen.’ “I was actually surprised they didn’t tack on
a clause requiring them all to park in Satellite. Or at least wear beanies or something.” While most on the
SGA are embittered about having to once again treat freshmen as equals, they are now being forced to deal with
the myriad cable-watching needs of the campus’ first years. Will freshmen guys have access to late-night, scrambled Cinemax, for example?
Fortunately, all of these concerns will eventually become obsolescent thanks to the glorious self-deception that is fictitious-mystery cable. For the
moment, however, the main theoretical question appears obvious: will cable present a large-scale assault on students’ already scarce free time?
“I’m just confident that the right people were on board to work through these concerns,” said Jeff Franks '07. “After
all, who knows more about wasting time than the SGA?”

Dear readers: Last issue THE YOWL, your Davidsonian Humor Section, ran this picture of the sign marking the entrance to
first West parking lot, which had remained on campus for a whole five months despite West’s rededication as Tomlinson last
fall. Fortunately, within just days of publication, the sign was removed. Actually, we're told it was hit by a car.
But in any event, we must suspect a new one will be up soon—to confirm for all that Mr. Tomlinson
was in fact not joking about the whole building rededication thing. Come to think of it, we bet he’d even
thank us. You’re welcome, Nelson!

THE YOWL
Your Davidsonian Humor Section

CONTRIBUTING THIS WEEK
Tom Anstrom
Lindy Baldwin
Colin Eagan
Erin Thompson

Students with story suggestions or interested in writing should contact the editor at coeagan@davidson.edu
