14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2004

Vicissitudes bring upsets and upsetting losses for baseball

By Wilson McCrory
Senior Staff Writer

“Heafner’s Homer Not Enough in Loss to Radford” - April 6th
“Cats Win! Cats Win! Davidson Beats Wake Forest 11-9” - March 23rd
“Davidson Drops Fourth Straight in 12-5 Loss to Elon” - March 20th
“Wildcats Slip Past Duke as Freshman Hurler gets First Win” - February 25th

On first impression, this series of headlines from the Wildcats’ baseball page seems to be paradoxical. The same Davidson team that is 2-1 against the ACC is 10-11 in the Southern Conference. When one takes a look at the competition behind that record, however, it becomes at least partially clear how the Wildcats have stayed below the .500 mark throughout the season despite wins against big-name programs. The competition they face day-in and day-out is some of the best in the nation. So far, the Cats have faced the likes of Duke, Wake Forest, and South Carolina, and they have match-ups with N.C. State and North Carolina still on the schedule. Furthermore, in Southern Conference play, the Wildcats have faced #28 UNC Greensboro, #22 College of Charleston, defending SoCon champ Western Carolina, and perennial powerhouse The Citadel. Even tiny Radford, who has beaten Davidson twice this season, is leading the Big South Conference.

So while it sounds like typical coach-speak when Dick Cooke says, “Everyone we play on our schedule is a good team. There are no automatic wins,” or, “Our conference is a very strong one for baseball,” it’s actually a fairly objective view of the Wildcats’ annual slate.

And while it is important to have those marquee match-ups to boost the status of the program, bring in recruits, and motivate the players, according to Cooke, just playing in the same park as a quality opponent is not enough to justify the quality schedule. Instead, the ’Cats have justified the high-profile match-ups by not only being competitive with the best of the ACC and around the region, but also by winning some of those contests. This year, for example, Davidson already has wins against ACC opponents Wake Forest and Duke, as well as victories over Top-30 programs UNCG and most recently College of Charleston. For many teams, a victory over an ACC team would define a season, if not a program. That is not the case in baseball, where the Wildcats have long enjoyed success against all levels of competition. The level of expectation is even greater now, because, as Cooke says, “College baseball has a great amount of parity right now. Still, it is critical to play each game one pitch at a time regardless of the opponent. The Southern Conference is so balanced top to bottom that there isn’t a change in emotion from one conference opponent to the other. You have to get motivated for every game, regardless of who the opponent is.”

Nevertheless, right-fielder Sam Navarro ’05 admits that there is a certain allure and motivation to big-name opponents. “It is easier to get pumped up for an ACC game or a nationally ranked team, because beating these types of teams of course can provide a great deal of satisfaction and a greater sense of achievement than beating a less acclaimed team. When playing these teams, it is easier to focus, because the prize is bigger.”do play up to better teams,” Navarro continued, “but at the same time, from a psychological standpoint, it really does not matter [for our performance] who we play. Most of our wins this year are results of good defense and good pitching. As position players, we know that our weekend starting pitchers have the ability to shut down any team they face. This makes it easier for us [to just play normally] when we play a team like Charleston, who is fourth in the nation in scoring.

“Baseball is also a unique game as compared to most sports, as individual match-ups or single plays instead of sheer talent can be the difference between a win and a loss. Baseball is definitely a sport where any given team can beat any other team on a given day. It’s not like basketball or football, where the quickest, most athletic team will prevail almost every time. Baseball is a sport of details, of precision — a matter of inches. Usually, the team that executes more precisely is the team that will win, and luck can also play a factor.”

Thus, while Davidson may not have the same talent across the roster as schools like North Carolina and N.C. State, it can compete on their level. But just as Davidson has shown the ability to beat a nationally ranked opponent on any given day, the team has also shown a degree of inconsistency against all levels of competition this year. The same Davidson team that has beaten the Blue Devils and the Demon Deacons has also lost to 5-25 Appalachian State and twice lost to 11-15 Western Carolina, among others.

The law of averages may be the result of these inconsistencies, because, as Cooke says, “When you play 50-plus games, there are going to be some ups and downs as to how you play.” But the more likely explanation comes from Navarro: “We are not going to score 10+ runs every game, so we rely on good pitching and defense.” The Wildcat pitching has typically been solid in Davidson’s big wins, including the 3-2 victory against Duke and the 5-2 win against Charleston, but the staff has struggled with consistency throughout the season.

Despite team ace Brian Akin’s sparkling 6-1 record and 1.95 ERA, the pitching staff as a whole carries a 5.38 earned run average. In comparison, Davidson opponents are limiting the Wildcats to 3.73 earned runs per game. As a result, the Wildcats’ margin for error is generally small, and shootouts like the ’Cats’ 11-9 win over the Deacons are a rarity.

Thus, while the ’Cats have performed well in the spotlight and have beaten every SoCon opponent they’ve faced so far this season at least once, their overall record indicates as much a level of inconsistency as it does success and difficulty. Still, Davidson’s performances against the conference and nation’s best lead to optimism for May and beyond. Says Navarro, “We have shown that, come tournament time, the sky’s the limit.”

Saturday, April 24th
Free Admission
Refreshments will be provided free of charge

Featuring.....
Dance
Musical Performances
Poetry Readings
Dramatic Monologues
....and more!

THE GENDER RESOURCE CENTER PRESENTS
Human Nature
CELEBRATING GENDER AND CREATIVITY AT DAVIDSON
8:30 pm at Summit Coffee (on the Back Porch)