14 MEE DEIR TODAY Virginity lost at foam party | SEE PAGE 13

NEWS
New girlfriend has very small PCC hand stamp found to cause cirrhosis | SEE PAGE 17
Belk arena air-conditioning fails; fans protest | SEE PAGE 19
Student could have sworn this was second floor | SEE PAGE 10
Pika blacks out | SEE PAGE 26

Green '04: “During the winter THE DAVIDSONIAN U BI ORTA-pilin i rides 28, a U BE BE MHS ass 1 R TAS DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

Humor Section By Colin EAGAN Yow! Editor

GUEST HOUSE BASEMENT—A report issued by the anthropology department this week yielded startling results: Public Displays of Affection, commonly known as PDAs, have increased dramatically across campus throughout the past month. Davidson students everywhere can now be seen touching, kissing, and fondling each other in full, disgusting view of the public.

“It’s getting somewhat out of hand,” commented student researcher Amanda Green. “During the winter months, PDAs are relatively non-existent, when the cold weather, midterms, and girls who wear sweaters drive campus libidos into near hibernation. But now with the onset of spring, inhibitions are being let out—and let outdoors.”

The results are, in fact, startling. A simple afternoon walk across campus now reveals Davidson students awkwardly displaying their affections from the Carolina Inn to the Stowe tennis hut, where they engage in such report-cited examples as the “swinging hand hold,” the “hallway hug,” and the “Chambers lawn face-suck.” Some displays are not as straightforward. In a rare occurrence, two students skipping out of a British literature class were later found making out in the Watson Science courtyard, in a PDA currently being termed the “Dana Cop-a-Feel.”

According to the report, the Davidson community is at particular risk for being grossed out by PDAs.

New ‘Davidson AC’ to ease crushing pain of campus life

It’s no secret that the end of the semester means the end of the rope for many at Davidson. Between exams, final papers, and flagging Ben Folds ticket sales, it’s easy to think there’s simply no hope in sight. Well, now there is. This semester, 14 senior biology majors worked in conjunction with campus health center doctors to create Davidson AC, a drug that promises to greatly alleviate the crushing sense of despair associated with the end of the spring semester on campus.

Coming in liquid, pill, and suppository form, Davidson AC is the new all-purpose solution to on-campus doldrums, allowing students of all majors to better tolerate endless studying in the library, strenuous typing in computer labs, and the constant, crushing sense of profound grief brought on by end-of-the-year academics. Specific benefits include a noted decrease in heartburn and headaches, an increased ability to pull consecutive all-nighters, and the instilling of an overall general sense that studying on the first floor of the library is, in reality, a very big waste of time.

“The hell with No-doz, Davidson AC is the stuff,” said test subject Ryan Mastey ’07. “This case alone should get me through P-Chem.” Pending FDA approval, Davidson AC should be available in the bookstore and campus health center by the start of next week.

- Colin Eagan
April 28, 2004

Campus PDAs on the rise

Fact: 60% of Davidson Students marry other Davidson Students

“At most colleges and universities, increased springtime PDAs aren’t quite as puke-inducing, because students are generally more open with their feelings to begin with,” commented Green. “But with a student body as sexually repressed as Davidson’s, it’s a sure-fire recipe for some ass-awkward jug groping. As I’m sure I don’t have to tell you.”

The particularly awkward nature of Davidson PDAs has been noted by students across campus. “Yeah, it’s pretty sick,” said Brian Karob ’06. “This guy and girl were definitely tickling each other.Out on the Union patio this afternoon, just as I’m trying to eat my fish sandwich. I mean seriously, get a room. You can’t even eat a fish sandwich in peace around here anymore.”

“Oh, and I know these two Young Life leaders who, get this, smiled at each other on the way to class today,” continued Karob. “I don’t have to tell you there was some blushing that followed that one.”

Alex Yelbis ’05 has also had an unpleasant experience. “One of my pod mates in Tomlinson has some religious rule that he can’t be in the same room with his girlfriend because he won't be able to control himself. Which is fine, except that it means he’s been making out 24-7 in our freaking common room. I must say it’s been a pretty effective form of birth control for the rest of us.” Added Yelbis: “At least they weren’t bear-hugging in front of CoHo, like I found them doing last Tuesday. Damn near called the Park Service.”

Others seem confused by the PDAs that have unrepentantly come their way. “My friend Robbie came in from Crew this afternoon wearing his new full-length spandex suit and tackled me right there on my bedroom floor,” commented Matt Otagel ’04. “Which is strange, because I’m definitely a guy. But I can’t honestly say I didn’t enjoy it. Actually, we went at it for close to fifteen minutes.”

According to most recent indications, there is little hope for any relief in PDAs, which are expected to rise throughout the next month, before drastically dropping off some time around the end of exams. For concerned students, the report does recommend avoiding PDA-friendly locations on campus, such as the big tree behind Belk, the 24-hour computer lab door alcove, and that wall between Sentelle and Cannon. “There’s unfortunately not much the average student can do to lessen the effects of PDAs short of carrying around a bucket of cold water and some Tums,” commented Green. “As for you PDAers out there, I have two words for you: I-Mac Field.”

---

The Davidsonian

Watts resident hits floor after two beers

By Bron TENNIS
Staff Writer

KA House—Freshman Douglas Reuter drew the attention of many party-goers Saturday night when he passed out after consuming two Coors Lites. A resident of Watts Hall—a substance-free dormitory—Reuter found himself unable to stay awake after a long night of partying and heavy drinking. Fellow students began to notice the inebriated Reuter around midnight while he lay drooling on a couch cushion in the back of KA.

Junior fraternity brother Laird Cooper commented on the spectacle, “I saw a large group of people huddled around something so I ran over to check it out. Turns out some train-wreck passed out on one of our filthy couches.”

Reuter admitted to having lost control over the course of the night. “Since it was Spring Frolics I figured I’d let loose and have a few sips of my friend’s beer. Unfortunately, a few sips turned into 7 or 8. Everything kind of went blurry from there.” After finishing his second beer, Reuter humiliated himself by dancing spastically and trying to climb up on stage with the band.

“Doug just wasn’t himself that night,” said friend and fellow Watts resident Phillip McQueen. “Normally he’s pretty shy and soft-spoken, but tonight he kept initiating conversations with girls he didn’t know and telling me I was the best friend ever.”

Thoroughly embarrassed by his behavior Saturday night, Reuter promised himself on Sunday that he would never binge-drink again. “I used to take pride in being part of the 17 percent. But I’m not so sure I deserve to belong to that proud elite anymore. By finishing that second beer I let down my loyal friends in Watts.”

“Not to mention,” added Reuter, “this hangover is killing me.”