8. THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson’s Lake Campus: better than the Union

By RUST MERRILL
Special Contributor

109.6 lakefront acres on a secluded cove, dock with large boathouse, manicured lawns, beach with private swimming area, several barns,
and residence within 10 minutes of the Town of Davidson and 12 minutes of Lake Norman shops. The description reads
like an ad for a prime piece of real estate just waiting to be snatched up by some eccentric millionaire
or ambitious developer bent on building a beautiful estate or estates in one of the area’s hottest markets — it’s
not, it is Davidson’s Lake Campus.

The residence is actually the caretaker’s house, the barns house the necessary equipment for the daily operation of the lake
campus, and its lawns are a little more rural than described. But it is still prime real estate, and it’s
heavily underused.

The Lake Campus was created in the early 1960s when Duke Power constructed Lake Norman to facilitate the production of
hydroelectric power, and to cool the McGuire nuclear power plant at the south end of the lake. The piece of
pristine property described above was donated to Davidson College by Duke Power with the stipulation that it could not be
sold or used for commercial purposes, but rather was intended for the amusement of the students, faculty, staff, alumni, and
friends of the college. So, you may ask, what exactly is amusement?

Most students who decide to up and make the short trek out to the lake campus find themselves out on
the point sunbathing, swimming, cooking out, and playing pick-up sports of some kind. It’s a great place to escape to
study or relax with friends, and there is no doubt the grassy point covered with dogwood trees jutting out into
the lake is a great place to be, but in reality, that’s only a fraction of what the lake campus
actually has to offer.

On those beautiful, warm, calm, sunny days, and even on some of those more overcast days, I’m a little too
addicted to the water to sit around and sunbathe or read. I usually can’t wait to get out to the
lake and make a few passes at the water-ski slalom course, or take a few members of the waterskiing club
skiing, wakeboarding, or tubing. You’re always welcome to give it a shot, but if skiing, wakeboarding, or tubing aren’t your
thing, there are still ways to make use of Duke Power’s giant cooling tank.

Maybe you’d like to cruise the lake with a group of friends on a pontoon boat, or along the shore
in a paddle boat, perhaps take a canoe out for a lazy afternoon, or if a little wind picks up,
jump in a sunfish and let the wind carry you across the lake. If it’s really nice, and you’re a
more proficient sailor, why not ask the sailing team if you can take a lark, or even a J-24 for
the afternoon, after all, it’s free! Well, almost free. A nominal fee (trust me it’s just enough to make sure
you don’t hog the boats all day, but let some of your peers enjoy the water too) will get you
on the water in no time.

Need some more help motivating yourself to get out to the lake? Then take advantage of SGA’s new “April at
the Lake” program. Every Friday in April (starting this Friday) the Vamonos Van will run shuttle service to and from
the lake where the SGA will host a band, several cookouts, skiing, tubing, sailing, frisbee, maybe some flicker ball, and
all the other amenities the lake campus has to offer free of all the usual charges. If your Friday afternoon
is booked, there’s always that much-needed recovery time from Friday night, try taking Saturday at the lake.

No matter what day of the week it is, the Lake Campus offers the Davidson community a rare resource that
few other colleges enjoy. We have a piece of real estate most developers would kill for, and facilities that provide
a summer camp-like array of activities. So as the days start getting warmer and longer, next time you need a
break from studying, need an excuse to procrastinate,or are sitting around looking for things to do, grab a group of
friends, or just yourself, and make the short trip out Langtree Road to the lake.

“PANINI” $4.99 | FERRUCCI’S OLD TYME ITALIAN MARKET
Shops on the Green @ Exit 28
704-896-3190 | www.ferruccis.com

‘TV on the Radio’ latest album “Desperate Youth, Bloodthirsty Babes.”

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 31, 2004

Tune into your ‘TV on the Radio,’ it won’t

By CURIS SCHMADER
Staff Writer

Last year, a group of New York rockers called “TV on the Radio” released a five-song EP that created, and
nearly fulfilled, enormous expectations for the band. That EP, entitled “Young Liars,” includes four original songs and an a cappella
cover of the Pixies’ “Mr. Grieves.” From the first listen, the tracks on “Young Liars” emerge as clear, forceful wholes,
with each musical element meshing and feeding off the others in a manner that is comparable to gospel while sounding
nothing like it. The layered guitars, pulsing drum beats, and multi-tracked vocals on the EP create majestic waves of reverberation,
whether on the driving “Satellite,” the soaring “Staring at the Sun,” or the slowly unfolding “Blind.” “Young Liars” scant 25
minutes left fans eager for a full-length album that would develop ‘TV on the Radio’s grandiose sound.

The moment of truth arrived earlier this month, when the band released its first LP, “Desperate Youth, Bloodthirsty Babes.” For
the first six songs of the album, the band uses the same strategy as that of “Young Liars” to wonderful
effect. Guitarists David Andrew Sitek and Kyp Malone play throbbing chords that build to create damaged heaps of sound, over
which singers Tunde Adebimpe—who sounds like Peter Gabriel with soul—and Malone wail appropriately desperate love lyrics, such as—“Your heart can’t
dream/ What your eyes won’t see/ But you were our favorite moment/ Of our dead century” (from “Dreams”) or “I
will be your ambulance/ If you will be my accident” (from the a cappella “Ambulance”).

Some of these songs, such as the two mentioned above, have a familiar verse-chorus-verse structure; some don’t. The distinction hardly
matters, though, since most of the drama and tension of the band’s best music stems from the addition and subtraction
of sonic voices. Sometimes a wall of guitars and synths will erupt onto a song at once, as in the
chorus of “Dreams;” at other times the instruments pile up gradually until they build to a stunning climax, as in
“King Eternal.” And sometimes the band, at a moment’s notice, will strip a song down to nothing but vocals—a move
made in “Poppy,” the last entry in the stellar six-song run that begins the album. Midway through “Poppy,” the repetitive
guitar line and spare, pounding beat that have been accompanying Adebimpe and Malone drop out of the song, throwing the
singers’ vocals into stark relief. The first six songs of “Desperate Youth” display the same tightness that made “Young Liars”
such a striking listen. During this stretch, every chord, beat, and stray bit of distortion coheres into a powerful, soul-shaking
testimonial to urban mystery and desire.

The final three songs on the LP prevent it from living up to the (perhaps unreasonable) expectations created by “Young
Liars.” These songs find the band attempting to loosen up and expand its sonic palette—an admirable move, but one that
produces sprawling, ungainly results. (The aimless organ noodling on “Don’t Love You” is the band’s worst misstep thus far.) Judging
from the set list of a TV on the Radio show that this writer attended in Greensboro two weeks ago,
the band knows that “Desperate Youth” doesn’t end well. Of the LP’s final three songs, the band played only one:
“Wear You Out,” a tolerable pastiche of 70’s soul. Luckily, they knew their strengths well enough to play all of
the original songs on “Young Liars,” along with the first six on “Desperate Youth.” Added up, these songs amount already
to an impressive catalogue; it will be exciting to see where these desperate youth go from here.
