By Steve KALISKI Senior Staff Writer

I wonder what “Ladder 49” is about. Is it about raging flames and explosive sound effects? Is it about John Travolta gracefully shying away from the public spotlight with a role so undemanding that his fellow performers actually simply refer to his character as “the captain?” Or is it about Hollywood cashing in two years too late on the waning fervor of post-9/11 patriotism? I ask these questions because I know beyond a doubt that “Ladder 49” is not about firefighters. If it were, then the movie would not resemble a carbon copy of a thousand other films not about firefighters. Futilely mining the long-barren concept of the perfect American hero, “Ladder 49” dishonors its supposedly revered subjects by turning firemen into vapid figureheads for heavy-handed Hollywood propaganda.

“Ladder 49,” a completely fictional and derivative film, religiously adheres to a textbook that can only succeed for true stories. Director Jay Russell sets out to deify his central character with the same intensity and earnestness applied to movies such as “The Perfect Storm” and “A Beautiful Mind.” The problem, however, is that “Ladder 49” tackles a childish daydream instead of a real person. Protagonist Jack Morrison (Joaquin Phoenix), the earnest Irish-American everyman who loves his job, his family, and his country, offers no more insight into true heroism than a Lego fireman. If given a description of both this character and the first ten minutes of the movie, any five-year-old in America could predict this plot’s square and conventional course to the finest detail. If you don’t believe me, I’ll give you the summary and you can play “Guess the Really Predictable Outcome!” on your own.

Morrison, a devoted search-and-rescue fireman, finds himself in a bit of a fix while battling flames in a towering inferno. As he struggles to fight his way to safety, he flashes back to his wholesome, humble beginnings as an American firefighter. The city assigns him to Ladder 49. He meets the boys. Captain Mike Kennedy (Travolta) is a real neat guy. Morrison fights fires. He meets a girl in the supermarket and falls in love. He fights fires. He gets married and has kids. He fights fires. He dreams of being the best he can be. He fights fires. Etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. Phoenix, who is more effective as a whiny supporting actor (“Gladiator”) than as an understated lead (“The Village”), either doesn’t...

Fire-fighters follow predictable plot.

Herding hip cats: trip to Asheville concert a chaotic success

By Andy MARTIN Staff Writer

It’s 3:45 p.m. on the afternoon of September 24, 2004. I’m standing on the hood of a Davidson College Ford Excursion, arms outstretched like a beardless Moses, surrounded by a cross-section of Davidson hipster-dom sweating in the sun. We’re going around the circle, saying everybody’s names in what seems to be shaping up as not much more than an exercise in futility: everyone knows everyone else but me. And I have absolutely no idea what the hell I’m getting into.

This week in the Arts and Living section, among other pieces of quality student journalism, you’ll find a movie review and a firsthand account of a night down on Patterson Court. I’d think it safe to say that the Arts and Living section cares about your Friday nights. Well, it’s too late to go now, but a couple Fridays ago WALT radio sponsored a shuttle to the Wilco show in Asheville, North Carolina. Thirty-three of us packed ourselves into three Davidson Excursions and a single SUV (whose fold-down seats accommodated six of us in stylish comfort), drove two hours through resplendent North Carolina scenery, and saw one of the best bands on the planet. What follows is a firsthand account of the evening, but I must offer this disclaimer: this is the tip of the iceberg, folks. There are things that happened on that trip that must never be spoken of.

If nothing else, the trip was cozy. One needn’t be a math major to work out that 33 people divided between four motor vehicles equals out to roughly 8.25 people per car.Thus, 9 in each Excursion (filled to capacity), six in Boyle’s Lexus. Everyone found their own ways of passing the time: some studied, some slept, a couple of BCC in my vehicle did this. Pianre cre- mas £ Wolle pirest, and oes Wolfe pod. The band as they hang out inside of the trailer. Understand or doesn’t appreciate the burden Russell expects him to carry. “Ladder 49” is so pompous that Phoenix doesn’t merely play a hero—he plays heroism itself. To call Morrison’s fellow firefighters “one-dimensional” would be to give the script too much of a compliment. Screenwriter Lewis Colick develops these characters so poorly that I’m not even sure if they have one dimension. Lenny (Robert Patrick) vaguely resembles “the jerk,” but his meanness never extends beyond cold stares and too many drinks. “The rookie” (Jay Hernandez) has the potential to bring some edge into the firehouse, but he essentially disappears after his introduction. This is a shame, because “Ladder 49” comes alive, albeit traditionally, when the interplay between the firemen is at its rowdiest. The rest of the film speaks in tones that can only express themselves through abrasive music, cliched writing, and an offensively simplistic notion of what it means to be a hero in America. I’m not giving too much away by saying that “Ladder 49” closes with a ridiculous montage of firemen going about their daily lives. They slide down the poles, weave through the city streets, rescue kittens from treetops, and, of course, fight fires. Is there anything more to these men than these trite images we could have recognized in first grade? Why can’t Hollywood give us a real movie about firefighters? And why doesn’t “Ladder 49” have a single Dalmatian riding shotgun? P.S. I wouldn’t be surprised if John Travolta has no recollection of starring in “Ladder 49.” The former has-been of 70s disco films has recreated himself as the has-been of 90s action films, and Mike Kennedy is the perfect has-been role. If his choice to give an Irish Baltimorean a Southern accent is any indication, Travolta’s heart is with his paycheck instead of his craft. Then again, maybe that’s a good thing, since the last true labor of love he gave us was “Battlefield Earth.”

Trying to put out a fire, this movie fails to save itself. The Davidsonian, Wednesday, October 6, 2004.

We made it to Asheville without incident, despite some faulty Mapquest directions—the fact that there is a Thomas Wolfe Road, a Thomas Wolfe Auditorium is a bit infuriating. We were soon loosed upon the streets of Asheville. As anyone who has ever tried to keep a group of thirty-three college kids together in the coolest city in the state can attest, it was not easy being the self-appointed mom of the trip. We made some chaotic attempts at trying to all go to dinner together, but it quickly became obvious that the only restaurant that could seat such a crowd was the Western Sizzler a few exits back, and no takers for that one. So we ended up going our own separate ways for dinner: the unadventurous to Mellow Mushroom, the health-conscious to the Laughing Seed Vegetarian restaurant (where the soap dispensers in the bathroom remind you that your every act of micturition is killing the environment), and the apotheosis of cool to Subway. The selection of limited-time specialty breads was delightful. And then we saw the show. How was it? Incredible. Ecstatic. Awe-inspiring. At least for those of us in section OR; those in the balcony section weren’t as glowing in their praise. Of course, it was Wilco frontman Jeff Tweedy himself who sang, “I’ve always been distant...” What else can be said? Cool lights. Great songs. But the Raleigh set-list was better.