THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Liz Billet
Senior Staff Writer

If you have time to read The Davidsonian, then you have time to go see the Annual Student Juried Exhibition at the VAC. The show will be up until May 5, and it’s a delightful study break. Though not everyone loves a good gallery crawl, this show is pleasurable to all comers. You probably know at least one of the artists, and you will certainly have empathy for all their hard work. What’s more, the variety of medium and subject, and their juxtaposition in the hanging done by Brad Thomas, are veritably mouth-watering as well.

I always love the slightly overwhelming feeling of walking into a gallery full of art I’ve never seen before. But it’s even better when I encounter sculptures, prints, paintings, and drawings all by different artists. Walking in, one is immediately confronted with a menacing, crouching figure wearing a hat of rough wooden spokes (“The Envy of Ralph” by Garen Reidel). The texture of the rough gray surface is a fine contrast against the smooth wood of the gallery, particularly when the hands of the figure press urgently against the floor. Immediately behind is an entrancing painting by Katie Mixon. The composition fed my greedy eye by letting it rest nowhere and offering up delicious colors at every turn. Right next to that is an etching by Anna Lauzon, entitled “Dance With Me, Juan Diego,” which won third place in the judging. Juan Diego was a lonely, poor Aztec who wore a cactus cloth, converted to Christianity, and saw many apparitions of the Virgin Mary on his daily three-hour walks to Tenochtitlan. The tiny dancing skeleton tossing up his cactus cloth embodies the idea of fragility, rendered with aesthetic strength. And, haven’t we all wanted to dance with an Aztec saint? And that’s only the first three pieces I laid eyes on—what ecstasy!

The following room contains gorgeous drawings by Hannah Noll and David Burr—one large and abstract, one figural and small. I joyously flock around the candy store! How can I resist the canvases filled with intense color, as in “Raandn” by Lucy Corwin and the hot orange “Torso” with very taut buttocks by Belvin Shelnutt? Or the nuclear hands of a sculpture by Warren Christian that peek from one room of the gallery into another? Or the giant shoe-polished nose crafted by Jonathan Wu? The punch of that large piece contrasts with a common thread among many of the sculptural works: their structures function like altars.

Open suitcases become display trays decorated with ribbons and feathers in works by C-Fun Thawley and Lindsey Smith. A glass case turns a variety of small personal effects into relics in a piece by Sarah-Grace Wesley. A small, unidentifiable object is placed on a black pillow in Eron Earley-Thiele’s “Lifeboat.” That pillow is set in the end of a giant welded boat-shape which, frighteningly, has no sides or bottom. These small art objects on pedestals crafted by the artist give a bit more intimate to look at than the larger abstract works—which is not to say that many of these are not stunning. Intimacy—light-hearted or intense—seems to be the theme of the show, intended or not. One can see the life cycle in the interior of a board in Stuart Harrell’s “2x4,” and in a particularly humorous number by Adil Bahalim, one looks into the interior of a round roll of masking tape to find a triangle of cardboard.

We are invited into a chicken’s dressing room in “Poultry Paradox” by Caroline Holmes, which won Best in Show. She cast a rubber chicken in bronze and then designed and sewed a wardrobe for the poultry, which seems aghast that it has nothing to wear. However, the chicken stands in front of a mirror which Holmes said was designed to be large enough to include the viewer. We are invited into the frustrated world of the bronze-rubber stage chicken, and stay to see the bountiful creativity of a fellow student. So go see the art that your friends make and have fun with it, because who couldn’t use a little aesthetic pleasure at this time of year?

Arts & LIVING

Cannon celebrates some of her last days at Davidson.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 2004

Farewell ‘My Davidson’

By Cannon Hodge
Arts and Living Editor

The Davidson College that I have etched into nostalgia is different from the campus that we see today. The school that I celebrate is almost quixotic in its flashes of shiny smiles, dewy lawns, and twinkling nights. Once upon a time, endless celebrations extended beyond campus designations, and Patterson Court was this dingy but enduring place that permitted any behavior. I was naive, but My Davidson College still feels quite real.

There was, of course, my first academic all-nighter when I shared the sterile 24-hour room with a fellow classmate. I can’t remember the paper topic; but I recall watching the outside air progress from black to December gray and later heaving my haggard body up the library steps. My Davidson recollects the library before the first-floor computer lab was installed when there was the whirr of swift-footed students hoping to claim one of the library’s conservative handful.

The library was where older

‘Wicked’: the newest Broadway sensation

Chenoweth and Menzel as Glinda and the Wicked Witch.

By Sarah Robinson
Arts & Living Editor

Broadway is a place that leaves a chill running up and down your body. Good theater can be hard to find, but you know a show’s genuine when it makes it to Broadway. Not to say that flops don’t occur there, it is just less likely. Or that you will always like the show. Just like any music or movie, each person has different tastes.. But for those inclined, there is something magical about the area surrounding Times Square. Over Easter Break, I saw “Wicked,” the new musical by Stephen Schwartz. It is the new smash hit of the year. Look for this musical as the Tony nominations are announced on May 10. When Glinda the Good Witch says, “Why don’t you let the little girl and her dog... Do-do go?,” you know you aren’t in Kansas anymore. Kristen Chenoweth and Idina Menzel star as Glinda the Good Witch and the Wicked Witch of the West, respectively. Incorporating the show with smart one-liners, fantastic special effects, and innovative costumes, the production leaves you wanting more as the curtain drops. 

Galinda is the popularity-grabbing roommate of Elphaba, the future Wicked Witch, the “beautifully tragic” unpopular smart girl (she’s green—doesn’t make for good first impressions). Chenoweth moves the character from being a shallow, rich kid to a powerful witch, ultimately ousting the corrupt Wizard (played by Joel Grey of “Cabaret” fame). Unknown to the citizens of Oz, she pursues the political ambitions of her best friend. Yes, the witches become friends, and while some may wonder, Chenoweth and Menzel complement each other in acting style and voice, producing a plausible background to the friendship formed. Likewise, Menzel adds a witty and sarcastic twist to the ‘Wicked’ Witch. An Animal rights activist (Animals, with a capital A, can speak, whereas animals cannot), Elphie is misunderstood as her burgeoning powers prove to be beyond her control. She declines the Wizard’s several invitations to join the ‘in-crowd’ after unknowingly aiding him in his plot to destroy Animals. In the end, the audience leaves satisfied as Dorothy (who only appears by shadow when killing Elphaba) heads home and Glinda helps stabilize the problems of the Ozians. The Scarecrow, Cowardly Lion, and the Tin Man also make appearances throughout the production. 

Based on the novel by Gregory Maguire, “Wicked” holds a solid storyline, which complements the original by L. Frank Baum. The production carries a political undertone, focusing on the deception appearances can cause and the overwhelming influence of public opinion. The music is catchy, with power ballads predictably approaching as the tension mounts. However, it follows the new trend on Broadway to focus on social issues. With “Hairspray,” “Rent,” and “Assassins,” “Wicked” follows the life of something that society has deemed unacceptable. These musicals provide a fresh outlook. They try to accept those who are different and do not fit into the correct personality, concerning weight, sexuality, and appearance. They are a powerful set of musicals for their honesty, testing the limits by challenging the audience with what they know. With all of that combined, “Wicked” provides a stellar production that is a must-see when visiting Broadway.

Joel Grey as the Wizard is a standout, and the boys, including my brother, played wildly fun pranks and drunken games of book-tag. We laughed at the library’s weekend early closing hours and joked about the school’s nerdiness. My Davidson recalls the rush of anticipation during my first self-selection. There I was, hiding in my dark Little dorm room, pretending to be asleep, and just hoping that chance placed me into my first choice eating house. The girls were all so pristine and mature, and their confidence seemed unending. So I timidly sipped my breakfast champagne and watched the roomful of new “sisters” dance in their pajamas. None of these girls, I believed, ever could have a bad hair day.

Suddenly, like morning visions after a drunken night, My Davidson has stirred another glazed situation, and memory dizzily stumbles into the Outpost. No one ever believed that the Outpost would close - it was our space, and the painted walls and familiar din reaffirmed our ownership. Maybe I would see my brother and follow him into the kitchen where we'd talk with Dixie and eat greasy pizza bagels. Maybe I would slide into a spell of bravery and sputter out my musical talent onto the piano’s dull keys. Sometimes, in a flourish, I would brush against some older boy that I crushed on, but most of the time I was cornered in gossip and dotty conversation. Everybody knew everybody else, and I felt completely out of my element. Wide-eyed and confused, I obsessively took class notes while mentally replaying weekend events in slow motion. Sometimes I felt like everybody - even strangers - knew about some drastic mishap that I provoked, and other times I just felt like “Hodge’s little sister” - a faint shadow of something overwhelming and real.

But, My Davidson was more than a few places and events that recently have been erased by administration and reputation. It was a sensation - no, an intimation of old school camaraderie. This Davidson has almost died, and we rarely recognize how we contribute to our school’s suffocation. Instead, we echo our rankings from the “Princeton Review” and boast that Davidson is more than having the seventh most competitive acceptance rate in the United States. We are negligent and sometimes forgetful. Our peers may petition to display student artwork around campus or preserve some of the school’s fine traditions; but where are all of the photographs that once decked the walls of the old 900 Room? Are they trapped in one of the stacks of taped-up cardboard boxes? Does anyone ever rebel against library codes anymore? Will there ever be another impromptu down on the Court, or feel like a dizzy jungle again? I don’t know. There’s so much that I want to revive and relive before my tenure ends, but I have a few more all-nighters to pull and papers to finish. But maybe I’ll initiate one last whirl of giddy exploits.

Have fun y’all, and keep up the steady work.