For you sports fans, WILSON'S PICKS OF THE WEEK

SPORTS
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2004

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Columnist

Our academic journey towards next spring has only reached the end of the first quarter, but club sports are decidedly
in full bloom. I’m not sure what inflated statistic the admissions office tells prospective students, but a large majority of
the student body actively competes for one or more club teams. Indeed, finding practice time on a campus with seemingly
endless expanses of grass is cut-throat. This lack of field space and eagerness to play, though, shouldn’t surprise anyone. After
all, club sports are the ultimate Joe College activity. You practice when you want, show up to games if you
feel like it, and never have to pass any sort of fitness test. It’s like having spring break without hangovers,
police, or your conscience.

While the varsity athletes abuse their bodies in Baker tossing 45-pound plates up, club athletes are afforded the opportunity to
abuse their bodies on Patterson Court throwing 12-ounces down. And so, it came as no surprise to anyone on the
roller hockey team when the following exchange occurred in the locker room before an early-morning game last season:

“Has anyone seen Josh?”
“Yeah, I was up until 7 a.m. with him... Actually, I passed out in his bed.”

This is not to say everyone who plays club sports acts like this, just that such incidents occur. In an
effort to get stories and opinions from other club athletes, I emailed every single club president asking for a funny
scenario or simply a short anecdote capturing the essence of club sports. Two people responded—one is the student who runs
club sports, and the other a teammate. This coming only days after half the damn school participated in that email
chain. I don’t get it. Anyway, a little something from the Davidson Ultimate Frisbee Folks/Foxes:

“I suppose if I were to paint a picture of DUFF that’s fit to print, I would have to describe
the first ‘unofficial gathering of friends,’ where 66 people gathered on the WHAP—an acronym for ‘Watson Hall Astroturf and Prairie
Dog Farm’ (the DF is silent)—the lawn space.”

By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

Anyone who has ever played on a YMCA team, or participated in any kind of youth sport, remembers the first
rule—often the only rule—that matters: Have fun. Clearly, professional athletes either never played rec league sports, or they forgot rule
number one a long time ago. Evidence abounds: steroids, fights in games, exorbitant contracts, and most simply the lack of
a smile on almost any player’s face for most of the game. I do not mean the Rick Fox showboating
smile or the Manny Ramirez “adore me, my public” grin. I mean an honest smile that just says that this
man or woman is having fun, cares not a bit for the score, and loves the game.

This is not to say that intensity and effort are out of place, or that tears at a tough loss
are unwarranted. I admire the type of determination that a Derek Jeter displays when he flips into the stands for
a fly ball. I love the John Lynch who bares his teeth and charges in to make a tackle. But
what makes me appreciate these two specifically more than others who give the same effort is that they will genuinely
laugh and smile in the dugout and on the sideline.

By AUSTIN MERCADANTE
Senior Staff Writer

McKillopville II 2004

McKillopville was in full force this past Monday night as students camped out in Belk Athletic Center for tickets to
this year’s Davidson/Duke game at the Charlotte Coliseum. Tickets went on sale at 7:30 a.m. Tuesday morning, but one student
actually began camping for the tickets on Sunday night, determined to be the first in line. Needless to say, he
had nothing to worry about, as the rest of the McKillopville residents didn’t begin arriving until Monday afternoon. In total,
36 people occupied McKillopville for the night, battling the suddenly cold temperatures with sleeping bags, textbooks, and a few guitars.
Wildcat coaches greeted the residents in the morning with boxes of fresh doughnuts.

Soccer slide

Women’s soccer started the season well, winning five of the first eight games. However, the past week has brought three
losses and no goals for Davidson, compared with 13 for their opponents. Granted, one of those games was against No.
18 Duke, who put up eight goals on the Wildcats, but a lack of offensive execution makes any game a
struggle. Earlier in the season, the Wildcats scored 11 goals in four games.Just occasionally, but every game. They still show
some of that sense of wonder and appreciation for the game they play. Of course, I must turn right around
and remember that I would smile, too, if I were paid what they are to play a game. Under the
NFL’s $80.6 million salary cap, Lynch was looking to negotiate a contract with Tampa for $4.1 million this year and
$5 million next year. Jeter, on the other hand, has a solid $18.6 million per year. In other words, with
a year’s salary, Jeter could pay the full tuition of the entire freshman class at Davidson. Yes, I too would
smile. But I would also have lost touch with the reason I first picked up a pigskin or a glove.
I do not, however, smile at the brawls in games, so the current scoring drought shouldn’t be a permanent problem
for the team. Still, there is cause for concern on both ends of the field.

Rookie repeat Kayli Maxwell ’08 was named Rookie of the Week in the Northern Pacific Conference for the second straight
week. Maxwell scored five goals in the team’s 11-2 victory over Catawba on Sept. 21st, and she has scored eight
goals and has a total of 18 points for the season.

Same old story

Men’s soccer continued its second-half struggles on Wednesday, giving up four goals after intermission to visiting South Carolina after taking
a 1-0 lead into the locker room.

All grown up?

Volleyball certainly has started turning things around. After opening the gates at 2-12, the 'Cats have won four out of
their last five to improve to 6-13. The offense has struggled at times, but Davidson is 6-0 when it posts
an attack percentage above .200.

Alumni humbled

Swimming opened its season with the alumni meet on Sept. 25th. Needless to say, current swimmers dominated Cannon Natatorium (that’s
the swimming pool), with seniors and freshmen dominating the scorecard. Megan Perez ’05, Trisha Blackwell ’05, Jenny Hoekstra ’05, and
Melissa Marquez ’05 all posted victories for the women’s team. Fiete Stegger ’08, Jonathan Smith ’08, Vincent Nardone ’08, and
Josh Pappas ’08 won races for the men’s squad.

Tennis tune-up

Men’s tennis hosted the Davidson/Jim Causey Men’s Tennis Fall Classic against SoCon rivals Appalachian State, UNC-Greensboro, and The Citadel, and
Davidson won 11 of 12 doubles matches in the tournament. Three players, Russ Burns ’05, Jay Chitty ’07, and Flav
Simihaian ’08, were a perfect 3-0 in singles matches. The women were also impressive in the Wake Forest Invitational this
past weekend. SoCon standard-bearer Kelly Fillnow ’05 was named the SoCon athlete of the month for women’s cross country. Fillnow
ran the fastest 5K in the conference at the time when she finished in 18:04 at Wake Forest. She will
be competing for the tennis team in the spring.

This amount of enthusiasm has continued, and now we have ‘teeeeam dinner’ in Commons on Thursday after practice. We take
up 90 percent of the outside tables and drink all the PowerAde, but we are the creators of the desert
waffle, a phenomenon I dare not discuss in such a public forum.” You see, I may be a poor columnist,
but I’m a top-notch investigative journalist. Mystery of the PowerAde drinkers: solved.

And now, another gem from the roller hockey team, as told by yours truly. Sunday night at 6 p.m. Davidson
faced off against Western Carolina University. During the first period, there were a few penalties, all on Western, and neither
the Western fans nor the players responded well to these calls. The refs were taking more abuse than Michael Moore
at an NRA cookout. During the second period, a Western player was ejected for headbutting. You read that correctly: headbutting.
This set in motion a series of events.

NHL games, or the changes in NBA rules that allow for more individual slam dunking, mouthing-off play. Hockey is more
than a bunch of idiots deciding to beat each other over the head. The game is always bigger than the
individual player. It seems that those who support striking to extort more money for their talents just do not understand
that. What happened to the days when the Olympics were limited to amateur athletes? When did we trade the joy
and adrenaline of college kids for the arrogance and ego-stroking of a Maurice Green taunting those behind him? We are
the athletes, coaches, and parents of tomorrow. The culture of professional athletics is unfortunately what we have as a model,
but I implore you all to remember what makes the game fun. Please do not be the parent who gets
in a fatal fight over little league hockey. Please remind yourselves, your teammates or those who play for you, and
your children that fun is not the important thing, but the only thing.
