12 ~ The Davidsonian

FOR YOU
SPOOLS Hains...
PETER'S PICKS OF

THE WEEK

Baseball vs. Elon
— 2 pm, Belk Field

The Cats have had some close losses this season and, honestly, name something better you will be doing on a Saturday afternoon? Come fill the stands and watch Davidson play a tough conference opponent.

SPORTS

BY WALKER SAIK
Senior Staff Writer

It’s hard to miss all the visitors these days. Bored high schoolers, known by some as “prospies,” are seen everywhere, being yanked along on one more tour of yet another red-bricked college.

But, oh! Davidson is different, says the tour guide. Unlike other schools of its caliber, such as Duke or Yale, students here are very laid back, and you’ll be hard-pressed to find students who’d consider themselves cutthroat—except for the occasional pirate wannabe.

But perhaps the admissions office needs to open its eyes a little bit, for right under everyone’s noses there has been a brutal lashing on the inferior—a complete dishevelment of Davidson College honors and values—and it has been occurring in, where else, Women’s Intramural Basketball.

If by chance you caught the Oscar-snubbed documentary on the rock band Spinal Tap, here’s a similar story. It’s about nine extraordinary sophomore girls who proudly take on the nom de basket of Benchwarmers.

Just finishing their second season, these foxy athletes put pride on the line, facing some of Davidson’s best in what some would see as a friendly basketball league.

“I think that our attitude towards the games made us very popular, as we are the only team with cheerleaders, a pep squad, and a videographer/historian,” said team captain and scrapbooker extraordinaire Emily Monforton. “The point was simply to enjoy ourselves and to make sure the average skill level of the intramural program stayed below that of the varsity team,” ‘Monfo’ continued.

Clearly, the Benchwarmers came out to have a good time and create the memories that one day they will think back upon over a beverage on their senior apartment porch.

But then, one by one, teams came out and ruthlessly victimized these friendly foes. With fast-break plays with a 45-point lead, behind-the-back fools while having quintuple the score, or even the merciless steal and lay-up with a minute to play in a 70-8 game, these opponents might as well be compared with the hunter who shot Bambi’s mom, the teacher who gave you the Monday midterm after Spring Break, or even the heartless Republican.

“After the game ended was always the worst,” exclaimed super-knitter Erica Bahls. “The other teams would make us line up and, in a cruel hazing-like gesture, smacked each of us on the hand and jeered, ‘Good game,’ between twisted, sneering lips. God, I hated that.”

see Benchwarmers, page 13

From the Sideline will be back in its normal spot next week

The golf balls of Frank Saville and John Mainwaring proved to be very allergic to light, as they both ended up in the cup within a minute of each other. That’s right, these men, both in their sixties, aced the same 143-yard 11th hole of the Prestatyn Golf Club in North Wales. The two were a pair for a fourball competition in which their remarkable shots helped them to a second-place finish. Bookmaker William Hill says the odds of two people getting a hole in one on the same hole is 250,000:1... Would you quit your job if you were extremely embarrassed by one of your clients? Jacky Temmerman is. Temmerman, a Belgian soccer referee, was reffing a match between Young Stars Eeklo and FC Zelzate when his resignation was sparked. A fan ran onto the pitch and pulled down Temmerman’s shorts and underwear, revealing his entire lower half to onlookers. The mortified official had this to say about the incident: “I will never dare to show up for another match. They can look for another idiot who is prepared to stand with his a@# naked for 20 euros per game” ... Waffle House 101: It is against company policy to order “take-out” and “eat-in.” Senior basketball player Tyrone Walker of Winthrop found this out the hard way. After doing the unthinkable, he was arrested for refusing to leave the restaurant when asked by employees to leave. Walker and family claimed that a security guard was blocking the door. The way I see it, the door was covered and Walker got smothered, when all he wanted to do was eat his hash browns diced, chunked, and peppered ... “Workplace expert” John A. Challenger reported in the Washington Times that the NCAA basketball tournament creates madness for the economy. He says that conversations about match-ups, pooling, and teams take ten minutes out of each employee’s workday. This loss adds up to costing the nation $1.5 billion. Challenger gives some suggestions for companies to cope with this distracting annual event. He says, “embrace the tournament as a morale-building event. Do office pools, and give access to updates via televisions in the break room.” All great ideas, John. Any reports on losses for students? ... Can you imagine an even taller, more skilled, Yao Ming? It’s possible that this could happen, and I will tell you how. Okay, maybe I am looking too far into the future, but look for Chinese women’s basketball star, Ye Li, in this spring’s WNBA draft. Li is reported to be the girlfriend of Yao Ming. Here’s a couple the Chinese national basketball associations should really push towards marriage. Those two have five kids and China has itself a gold medal-winning 2024 Olympic team.