8 THE DAVIDSONIAN Arts & LIVING WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2004

Creative Type: Lisa Burr performs for peers with a studied wit

Burr with Hanley Smith.

By Brian CREECH
Special Contributor

Before she came to Davidson College, Lisa Burr ’05 was dead set on becoming an English major. Her love for interpreting literature gave Burr, early on in her college career, a sense of academic direction that pulled her to the large, vaunted, and theoretical halls of the English Department. Since then, however, she has translated this love of literature and interpretation into the basis for her acting style as a Davidson Theater major and lead in the upcoming play, “The Love of the Nightingale.”

In regards to her acting career to date, Burr claims, “In college environments, everyone is cast pretty close to type. I find myself playing older, more mature characters... and even bitchy ones, for what it’s worth.”

Before college, Burr had never encountered the stage, though she admits candidly to having the seeds of the drama bug building within her during her formative high school years spent along the sandy beaches of suburban Pensacola, Florida. In the spring of 2002, the polite and cosmopolitan Floridian took an acting class under the direction of instructor Sharon Green and discovered that her interest in performing far outweighed her talents in the close reading and character analysis demanded by English.

For Burr, deciding on Theater as a major was a gradual process, but her early interest in English has ultimately given shape to how she approaches her characters, ready to try many different angles of interpretation. Since taking that one acting class, Burr has appeared in three main stage productions—“The Diary of Anne Frank,” “Dancing at Lughnasa,” and this year’s “Nightingale”—and a Black Box presentation of the uproarious one-act comedy, “Sister Mary Ignatius Explains It All,” for which she was reviewed kindly in this publication. The maniacal nun showcased Burr’s deft ability with biting humor well, and in the role she displayed an ability to flirt with an inner darkness that captivated laughing audiences.

Burr describes her first acting class as “nerve-racking, because I didn’t know what I was doing.” She thanks Sharon Green for “teaching me how to spread my wings and fly.” The semester after her first acting class, Burr felt encouraged to audition for “The Diary of Anne Frank” and landed the part of Margo Frank, the controlled and cool older sister to Anne Frank, played by theater department standout Beth Gardner ‘03.

CAFES, COFFEEHOUSES & ROASTERY

$care Yb Your » Discount

DRAW FROM THE MAGIC PUMPKIN AND WIN 10%, 20% UP TO 100%* OFF YOUR MORNING COFFEE PURCHASE

*IN-STORE PROMOTION, DISCOUNT APPLIED AT REGISTER. ONLY APPLIES TO PURCHASES BEFORE 12:00 NOON.

WE OPEN MON-FRI 6AM, WEEKENDS 7AM

FRESH BAKED PASTRIES » MUFFINS » BAGELS

19930 West CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS NEAR MCALLISTER’s DELI - Exit 28, Off I-77 704-896-1900 WWW.BENJERRY.COM/LAKENORMAN AND WWW.PORTCITYJAVA.COM

Since that first stage experience, Burr feels she has grown as an actor. She has become more comfortable appearing before people, more conscious of her voice on stage, and in more control of her body and movements before an audience. Also, she has taken a more complex approach to the development of her characters, trying to infuse them with reality, reading in between the lines of her scripts. She strives now to create more complete characters that breathe the nuances of the entire text at any given moment of the performance.

In regards to her craft, the actress often finds herself playing stable, more mature characters, probably due to her own appearance of stability and consistency. Procne, her character in “Nightingale,” shares many of the same steady-going qualities of Burr’s previous characters but explores a much darker emotional landscape than the actress has encountered in her other performances. Once again, she is the older of two sisters and prescribes to logic as the ultimate purveyor of truth, but is faced with a crippling challenge when logic fails.

“If a character goes through a sensitive emotional state, it can be dangerous [for the actor] by opening up old wounds, but using personal experiences carefully can be helpful and even kind of cathartic,” states Burr carefully.on the balance that actors have to achieve to give a successful performance while protecting their own emotional life. When asked about her own ability to handle her character in her personal life, she says slyly with a sweet smile, “I feel like I can turn her off, maybe because I’m part robot. But at least my circuits are well hidden.”

After Davidson, perhaps Lisa Burr will become a brilliant teacher. She has the desire, and her acting training has made her more comfortable in front of groups and taught her how to command a group’s attention. Aside from teaching aspirations, she has also considered law school and even acting for the professional stage. Burr would love to return to school at some point for a Master's Degree in Fine Arts. She mentions Northwestern as a possible landing spot.

If Burr continues acting, she’d like to explore comedy, which bodes well for her considering her remarkable quick and casual wit. If acting becomes a viable career choice for Davidson’s homegrown character actress, she would love to grace the smaller but well-respected stages of Chicago and elsewhere, exploring comedy and improv in the more modest venues.

Burr in rehearsal for “The Love of Nightingale.”

Concert will provide variety of music for the family

The orchestra in DFPH.

By MICHAEL CAVELL
Staff Writer

While many are anxiously awaiting the upcoming Black Eyed Peas concert, this coming weekend offers ample opportunities to enjoy live music performed by fellow Davidsonians. This Friday, it’s going to “get started” with performances by the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra, Concert Choir, and Jazz Ensemble. Students (and some faculty members) have been rehearsing all semester and on Family Weekend will showcase all the hard work and practice they have put into their music.

Friday’s first performance, the Symphony and Concert Choir, begins at 7:30 pm in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church Sanctuary. The lineup of pieces is very exciting. The Symphony will be performing Mussorgsky’s “Night on Bald Mountain” and movements from Grieg’s “Peer Gynt.” “They are both works that work well for the ensemble that we have this year. It’s a good balance of passages that are very technically difficult and passages that are more difficult from a musical standpoint,” said Symphony conductor Tara Villa of Friday’s lineup.

Students in the Symphony are also enthusiastic about Friday’s performance. Said Kristen Clements ‘05, “I most look forward to performing Mussorgsky’s ‘Night on Bald Mountain.’ This piece not only is an incredible piece of music, but also serves as an expressive narrative.”

The Concert Choir performance also promises to be a treat. With an exciting array of pieces, the Concert Choir will undoubtedly be a rewarding musical experience for all of those who attend. Among other things, the Chamber Singers will be performing an original work by Dan Locklair, composer in residence at Wake Forest. Locklair, a composer of national reputation, will be in attendance at the concert.

Dr. Osborne, conductor of the Concert Choir, is optimistic about Friday’s performance. Said Osborne, “My goal as a musician is always to achieve everything possible under the given circumstances of time and energy, to project the intents of the composers as well as our own involvement with the music, and I think that we are well on the way to achieving that goal.”

In addition to the Symphony and Concert Choir performances, a separate Jazz Ensemble performance will be held in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room beginning Friday evening at 10:00. With a wide variety of tunes ranging from mambo to blues and old standards like “Prelude to a Kiss” and “On Green Dolphin Street,” the concert has something for everyone.

Matthew Petit, a trombonist in the Jazz Ensemble, was visibly excited when asked about the performance. “We’ve got a really good performance planned. I’m really looking forward to it.”

Family Weekend musical performances abound this Friday, and it would be a shame to miss any of them. All of the ensembles are sure to please, and the concerts offer perfect opportunities for a Family Weekend spent with relatives.

Choir in performance.