The Davidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

RIAA catches five students illegally downloading music
By Jackie McKeon
Senior Staff Writer

The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) contacted Davidson College between Oct. 27 and Nov. 9 about five students who
violated copyright laws due to illegal music downloading and sharing.

"The RIAA had traced two copyrighted songs to my computer, meaning I inadvertently downloaded copyrighted music from another source, and
since I was file sharing, I could have distributed the copyrighted material," said Heidi Wilbrandt '07, one of the five
students confronted by the RIAA.

Davidson College reacted to the notices by shutting down the students' internet access until the offending material was removed. The
RIAA did not take any further legal action once students removed the material.

"If we do not take action, they take action against us," said President Bobby Vagt.

The RIAA represents the U.S. music industry and is responsible for pursuing and punishing those who violate copyright laws. The
RIAA website estimates that the music industry loses nearly $300 million every year due to music piracy. Penalties are severe
for those charged with the online infringement of copyright music. The offender can be punished by up to 3 years
in prison and $250,000 in fines, regardless of their student status.

The copyright laws surrounding music downloading and sharing can be vague and confusing. Copyright laws prohibit the unauthorized duplication, performance,
or distribution of a creative work.

"It is a pretty good guide that any site offering a variety of music for a fee is legal and
any offering free downloads is illegal. Some groups have their own site and offer free, legal downloads, but they are
the exception," said John Casey, head of Internet Technology Services.

Last year, the Motion Picture Association contacted Davidson College about six students who had downloaded films illegally. Students removed the
offending material and no further actions occurred.

Davidson students have been lucky. In both cases involving copyright infringements, no further legal actions occurred once the students removed
the illegal material from their computers. Students at Hamilton College in Clinton, New York have not been as fortunate.

"At Hamilton, students have had to hire attorneys and battle court subpoenas," said Dean of Students Thomas Shandley.

Colleges and universities across the nation have recently received notices from the RIAA about illegal...

Some residents of Richardson Dormitory had to evacuate their rooms after sewage spilled into their rooms.

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2004

Third Rich won first place in RLO’s hall decorating contest with their “Polar Express” theme.

CCRL questions accuracy of College’s marketing
By Adam Martin and Kate Gillespie
News Editor and Senior Staff Writer

At a recent Council on Campus and Religious Life meeting, Davidson’s current ties to the Presbyterian Church and its commitment
to the Reformed tradition of Christianity raised concerns about how accurately the college represents itself to prospective students.

"I don’t think we have discussed enough how Davidson’s openness about its religious affiliations plays out in admissions," said Fred
Smith, assistant professor of economics and a member of CCRL, the President’s advisory board.

The College’s statement of purpose clearly describes Davidson’s commitment to the Presbyterian and Reformed traditions in its opening two paragraphs.
The statement can be accessed online, 3 clicks from the Davidson College home page.Yet most prospective students never read the
statement before enrolling at Davidson, and rely on tour guides and admissions publications to learn about the college. “When I
first came down to visit, I was never made fully aware of the fact that Davidson was affiliated to the
Presbyterian Church,” said Ross.

see Admissions, page 3

First Class U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC

VOLUME 96, NUMBER 12

Death leads to safety reforms on trails
By Carey BAXTER
Staff Writer

A middle-aged man died of a heart attack three weeks ago while running an 8k on Davidson’s cross-country trails. Medics
arrived about half an hour after he collapsed. The tragedy has caused Davidson administrators to implement major safety reforms on
the trails.

The 51-year-old man was running with his wife when he collapsed. She began performing CPR and yelling for help. Pam,
a flight attendant for US AIR, is trained in CPR. About ten minutes later a young woman came running by
and then went for help. The young woman met Don Williams ’08 on her way out of the trails. Williams
had a cell phone and made the first of two 911 calls. The ROTC members had run into the young
woman who told them about the situation. They had trouble finding the couple. When they arrived at the scene, two
ROTC members, Cadet Natalie Rowe ’06 and Master Sergeant General Heyward, began doing CPR for the wife. Cadet Chris Hallett
’04 ran to find a cell phone and make the second 911 call and give the ambulance better directions to
the victim. The young woman also met President Bobby Vagt on her way back to campus and gave him directions
to the couple. Vagt had trouble following.

see Trails, page 3

Sewage surges through Rich
Residents ask for higher lottery numbers as compensation
By BEN WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

A recent surge of sewage through a dorm room sink has caused two of the students who reside in the
basement of Richardson to request better housing lottery numbers as compensation. Freshmen Dom Ippolito ’08 and Sam Hotchkiss ’08 felt
their undesirable rooming assignment warrants a high number among their class in next year’s lottery.

According to reports from the two roommates, Hotchkiss and Ippolito entered their room to discover sewage flowing up through their
sink’s drain. Neighbors Don Williams ’08 and Brian Benoit ’08 also found sewage in their sink. The cause of the
flooding was traced to a cotton towel that had been flushed down a toilet. RLO provided a full cleaning of
the two rooms. The residents who had suffered the flooding were brought to a meeting that included President Bobby Vagt
and Director of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano. When the students were asked for suggestions on how to handle the situation,
they suggested better lottery numbers. The residents argued that the sink incident justifies improved housing next year.

“Because of our great disparity in freshman year housing, we feel we should have advantageous lottery numbers to level the
playing field,” said Hotchkiss in defending their position. The current lottery system randomly assigns students numbers that establish the order
in which students get to pick housing. Dean Marsicano expressed con-

see Sewage, page 2

Students celebrate Festivus
A&L, PAGE 6

Survey reveals attitudes on diversity
Christmas more about consumerism than religion
PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 11

Steroid issue beyond Bonds and baseball
SPORTS, PAGE 12
