THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, April 21, 2004

Photo by Ryan Thompson

Rodda and LaBruce ’06 covered the walls of an unused room on First Little with text from Woolf’s “A Room
of One’s Own” last semester.

Little, from page 1

work, but if you ask me face to face, I'll just tell you how much I hate Virginia Woolf.” Although
Urban had originally requested that the students paint over their work before the start of the second semester, she changed
her mind upon seeing the final product. She said, “They had just finished [the room]. [RLO] thought it would be
worthwhile for folks to have a chance to admire it.” Rodda and LaBruce, delighted by the respite, agreed to repaint
the walls by the end of the second semester.

Mader, though, was determined that future 1st Little residents be able to admire the artwork. In her opinion, there was
not enough student artwork on display around campus, so she arranged a meeting with Urban to discuss the importance of
the room. Urban listened carefully and after consultation with Leslie Marsicano, Director of Residence Life, decided that the room in
1st Little should stay just as it was. Urban said, “I think that [Mader] as well as myself agreed that
[the room] is something that is of benefit to the community at large.” She added, “It’s a way that we,
RLO, can support students’ academic achievements.”

Mader was thrilled by the decision but wishes that more students were motivated to attempt public art projects of this
sort. She said that in her home state of California students are permitted to display their artwork all over campus.
At Davidson, Mader explained, students are relatively confined to either the VAC or the Union. Mader said that a greater
concentration of student artwork in public places might heighten the students’ sense of ownership over the school. “[Public artwork] would
be something that could highlight the general experience here, the communal experience here,” she said.

For now, though, Mader is happy that RLO has agreed to leave the room on 1st Little alone, especially now
that it means so much to Rodda and LaBruce. She said, “[Emily] one day told me that she wanted nothing
more than to walk by [the room] one day and see someone reading the whole thing - taking the project
seriously.”

Trustees, from page 1

include the assessment of the Christian requirement. Tom Ross is the chair of the ad hoc committee. Other committee members
include Kevin Hannah, Elizabeth Brooks, Paul Leonard, Art Ross, John Rogers, John McCartney, and Bobby Vagt. The committee will report
back to the full board with their conclusions by October. “Amongst other things, we will be looking at the Christian
requirement for trustees,” said College President Bobby Vagt. “The committee will meet, and then I’m sure we’ll be soliciting information
from those people who are interested in the issue.”

During the committee reports session, the finance committee reported on asset allocation in the college endowment concerning future housing needs
for faculty and staff. “As you look out ten years, given...What is happening to the price and availability of real
estate, we have to determine things that the college needs to be looking at for the future,” said Vagt. “The
question for Davidson is what should we do so that people want to remain in this area.” Other issues presented
during the meeting include the student report given by SGA President Katherine Hubbard and an update on the college’s Let
Learning Be Cherished Campaign which has currently raised $226 million out of its $250 million goal.

Holland, from page 1

Holland teaches composition and creative writing, British literature, and Romantic and Victorian literature. He cites independent studies on storytelling as
significant components of his professorial role here. Outside his English curriculum, Holland makes a hobby of learning languages. When asked
how many languages he speaks, Holland says, “English on a good day!” He has studied Norwegian, Mandarin Chinese, French, German,
and Polish. Holland also enjoys sketching faces and thanks his wife Siri for sharing with him her love of art.

Holland studied at Washington and Lee University and conducted his graduate work at Chapel Hill before a tour through North
Carolina, Texas, and California led him to Davidson, his home for many years now. Dr. Gill Holland received the 1994
ODKappa Teaching Award from Dr. Jerry Putnam. Holland will retire at the end of this semester. Before he leaves Davidson,
Holland is working toward the compilation of a religious writing publication. After reading so many of his students’ creative writing
on religious experiences in many faiths, he wanted to preserve some of it in a collection. Laurie Hibbett ’05 edits
the publication that should be distributed by the end of the semester.

From here, Holland plans to spend some time teaching in Poland and then move to Baltimore to be near his
grandchildren. Holland also hopes to conduct several writing projects on his experiences as a witness to the Tiananmen Square demonstrations
while on sabbatical in China in 1989. To quote Thomas Merton on Dr. Holland’s behalf, “Let this be the ending
of the book but by no means the end of the searching.”

We'll help you move even if your friends won't. Let us help you with that. We carry everything you need
for your next move. A variety of moving boxes along with Anthology, Bubble cushioning. We can ship boxes to your
new address for you. Low rates direct from UPS®.

The UPS Store
2003 United Parcel Service of America, Inc.
The UPS Store®
Norman Blvd. Cornelius, NC
Half mile west of I-77
704-892-9760
store193@theupsstore.com

Only $1195 a month
Call Todd Long at TDL Properties
704-528-1595 or 704-902-4700
Also see tdlprop.com for more details.

1138 Torrence Circle
South Harbor Town, Davidson Landing
3 Bedroom, 2 Bath
2nd floor, WATERFRONT Condo
LOW maintenance living at its best
Water, sewer, and garbage pickup included
Boat slip available for an additional $150 per month
Easy access to shopping and entertainment
Tile in Kitchen and baths, garden tub, balcony, fantastic view, gas range, disposal, dishwasher, built-in microwave, refrigerator, sprinkler system
Too many features to include here. See tdlprop.com
