THE DAVIDSONIAN - Davidson students party hard on The Court.

Weekend Warriors and Midterm Survivors
By Katie Hunter
Staff Writer

“What are you doing tonight?” During the week, most Davidson students could answer that question with a standard response, usually
in reference to multiple sports, extracurricular activities, or piles of homework on their desks. When the weekend rolls around, however,
don’t expect their attitudes to change. Like everything else, Davidson students take their fun, and weekend time, very seriously.

“During the week, I work hard, so on the weekends I party hard,” declares Bianca Guinn ’08. Many people share
her sentiments, choosing to let loose by forgetting about that upcoming test or term paper for a couple of nights.

What did people do for that last hurrah before fall break? The answers vary as much as the personalities on
campus, ranging from a quiet night watching movies in Chambers to a German “Oktoberfest” in one senior apartment. Stewart Knight
’08 was lucky enough to score tickets to the Allman Brothers and Lynyrd Skynyrd concert on Saturday night. “Friday was
my birthday,” says Knight, “so my sister and friends came down from Charlottesville to attend the show with me.”

Plenty of arrests were made this weekend as well, but all in the spirit of good, clean fun. The women
of Rusk invited all members and freshmen ladies to “cuff ‘em and ruff ‘em” for their annual semi-formal, the first
one held by an eating house so far this year. Ladies were asked to escort the date of their choice,
or to just show up for a good time at the Policeman’s Brawl. Though caution tape decorated the columns outside
of Rusk, a few freshmen women said the only thing they worried about was “making sure no one spilled anything
on our dresses.”

Felt like you needed a “holiday” from studying for midterms this weekend? Judging from the masses of black-lace-and-pearl clad girls
who descended on Warner Hall this past Saturday, many people did. The eating house featured its annual Madonnaroma Party that
night, one of the most crowded court functions of the year. The party went off without a hitch, except for
the accidental trigger of the fire alarm early on in the evening. “The fog machine set off the alarm,” laughs
Elizabeth Berndt ’07, “so we all had to evacuate the building.” Fortunately, this little mishap didn’t stop the party for
long. The crowd continued to get down to Material Girl beats and swirling disco lights until 2 a.m.

Some people would rather leave the dancing to the professionals. This past Saturday, Step Afrika! took the stage in the
Duke Family Performance Center for a performance featuring tap, modern, freestyle, step, and native South African dances. The fun can't
last forever, though, which many students realize with the dawn of Sunday morning. Jeanelle Perry ’05, who attended a Step
Afrika! performance at UNC Charlotte months ago, was thrilled when she found out the Washington, D.C. based troupe was coming
to Davidson. “The variety of dance pieces was impressive,” stated Perry, “especially because it was a very different show than
the one I saw at UNCC.”

“I even got to go up on stage and step myself,” Perry says excitedly. “It was a great way to
get my mind off of school and work.”

The fun can’t last forever, though, which many students realize with the dawn of Sunday morning. Some students use Sundays
for reflection, attending church services as a way to refresh their minds for the upcoming week. With the prospect of
midterms looming, this idea seemed to resonate with many students. Perry, who attended University Park Baptist Church’s morning and communion
services on Sunday, claimed that this time also helped her “deal with stress.”and concentrate on spirituality. The workload might seem
overbearing on Sunday evenings, but most students possess few regrets about their weekend experiences. The sign on one freshman dorm’s
door in Third Belk seems to sum it up with this motto: “Working hard might pay off later, but procrastination
always pays off right now.” With Fall Break around the corner, one hope: that students will find the time to
make it through the madness to enjoy a well-deserved break.

Arts & LIVING
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2004

Are relationships worth the trouble?
By EMILY WILSON, STEVEN GENTILE, KATE WILLIAMS, KIRSTEN TALLEY, AND KIM NEWTON
Student Health Advisors

The quandary of the collegiate “hook-up” is as nebulous as it is ubiquitous. More frequent on weekends and after alcohol
consumption, less applicable to real relationships; ask any two people, and you will likely find differences in both their objective
definition, and their subjective perception and personal history of “hooking up.” When asked about “hooking up,” one student emphasized that
the practice is emotionally economical. “I don’t have to know a person to have a good time with them, and
I’m not expected to keep in touch forever afterwards.”

Many see these short-term physical attachments as a happy medium between involved relationships and sexual frustration. The anomaly can consist
of anything from talking, to touching, to intercourse. Hook-ups usually occur during the wee hours of the morning, and end
when one person embarks on the ominous “walk of shame” (or march of conquest; again, we have an ambiguous term
open to interpretation) back to his or her room. While serious emotional attachment is not usually at the heart of
the matter, couples can form after a pattern.

Now, to add another ambiguous piece of lingo to this article: what is “game?” Its slang definition is often closely
correlated to one’s ability and desire to hook up. Because students on a small college campus lack anonymity, the “dated”
concept of the one-night-stand is no longer viable. In one conversation with a peer, it became evident that we still
play “the game,” but that the rules have changed. “You are still judged,” said the student, “it is just that
now, you don’t know how you are being judged.”

Perhaps the ambivalence of the hook-up protects its participants; perhaps it sensationalizes the same old story. In 1998, musical group
Public Enemy rewrote Buffalo Springfield’s 1966 song “For What It’s Worth.” The new version was entitled “He Got Game” and
addressed how we assess what it is we do.

“It might feel good
It might sound a little somethin’
But d@#* the game if it don’t mean nothin’
What is game who got game
Where’s the game in life behind the game behind the game
I got game
She’s got game
We got game
They got game
He got game
It might feel good
Or sound a little somethin’
But f#%* the game if it ain’t saying nothin’”

Dr. John Rush is presenting the lecture, which focuses on student depression. The lecture was started by the Class of
‘90, in order to commemorate a fellow classmate who committed suicide. Dr. Rush is a member of the psychiatry department
at the University of Texas Southwest.

Kirsten Talley ’05, Kim Newton ’05, Steven Gentile ’06, Emily Wilson ’05, and Kate Williams ’06 are this year’s health
advisors.

Monday and Tuesday
Second Meal at 1/2 Price (Equal or Lesser Value)
Sushi @ The Lake
(704) 987-8080
www.sushiatthelake.com

10% Off with School ID
Monday-Friday 2pm-6pm
Saturday 11:30am-5pm
Hibachi Grill Special with School ID

College Night! 10% Off with School ID
