8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

TODAY'S NEWS

Seasonal Union Café Decorations “Breathtaking”

Male student caught listening to Generals CD SEE PAGE 5

Davidson Discovered; Prospectives duped

Student’s car charged with battery SEE PAGE 16

Sheets finally laundered PAGE 15

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

L’Shana Tovah (Happy New Year) September 22, 2004

The Davidsonian

Outsourcing hits Davidson

IBM, Dell, Microsoft, Davidson College. What do these organizations have in common? All four are among the growing number of institutions that “outsource” various jobs within their corporate structure overseas. This past Thursday, George Williams III, head of the Davidson College Board of Trustees, announced that most non-vital workers and non-tenured professors will be laid off, and their positions moved to Bangalore, India. Said Williams, “We have signed a four-year contract with an Indian company called Infosys, the same company that handles the College of Charleston’s administration. All of the current jobs that fall under the heading of ‘administration’ will be handled in India. We are confident that Infosys employees will handle their duties efficiently and competently, at a highly competitive price.”

While the outsourcing of manufacturing jobs has been commonplace for many years, companies have only recently begun to move entire departments of “white-collar jobs,” such as customer service or accounting, to developing countries such as India or Bangladesh in order to increase profits in this competitive market.

In Davidson’s case, almost the entire administration is being sent offshore, including all of the Deans and their secretaries, Business Services, Information and Technology Services, and the Student Counseling Center. Not affected by the move are the College President, the Physical Plant, Dining Services, the Laundry, and Campus Security. Furthermore, all classes formerly taught by non-tenured professors will now be run from India.

According to sources within the Board, they have been considering this move at differing levels of severity for over a year, stemming from the need to drastically cut costs following huge infrastructure improvements such as the renovation of both Chambers and Belk Dormitory, as well as the costs incurred from the new soccer stadium, Alumni Field. Explained former Assistant Dean of Students Dr. Walter Joyner, “While I clearly am not happy about losing my job, I do understand why the college made the decision. It’s just too hard to stay competitive while paying the high salaries and benefits demanded by American employees. I can’t say that I didn’t see it coming.”

Most students were both upset and surprised by the news. Complained Anthony Gwynn ’05, “This ruins the close-knit community feel that was the reason that I chose to go to Davidson. I just can’t feel that comfortable talking to my ‘advisor’ who I’ve never met and she is halfway around the world. And I can’t imagine being disciplined by someone who doesn’t even know me.”

Commons to feature international lasagnas

As part of an effort to cater to what Dining Services director Sherri Lehman calls “increasingly globalized taste buds,” Vail Commons will start serving multi-ethnic versions of lasagna starting next week. “Our Mexican lasagna has always been a big hit, but we’re looking beyond Mexico for inspiration these days. I’m thinking Peru, Russia, maybe even Vietnam. Heck, these kids weren’t alive in the ‘60s,” said Lehman in a recent interview.

With food provider Sysco increasing its Asian product line last fall, it was only a matter of time before Vail Commons produced such variations on their menu. In the 10,000 square foot test kitchen buried deep beneath the Belk lawn, chefs consistently work on new recipes for the hot food buffet at the Commons. Recently much of their time has been devoted to exploring varieties of rice and new burger patties with creamy ketchup centers. “Students here don’t realize how many varieties of rice are out there,” feels one chef who wished to remain anonymous. “Sure they can add and subtract, but when it comes to rice, these kids are living in a bubble,” he said with concern.

Lehman was hesitant when the conversation shifted to Chicken Parmesan, a very popular dish among Davidson students. But, she ensured that the new lasagnas would not interfere with its customary appearance on the menu, but also insinuated that the test kitchen was experimenting with new Parmesan recipes. Speculation among students has led to rumors about new Commons Parm recipes using water chestnuts and grapefruit. Other rumors on campus have linked Vail Commons’ food with Davidson’s high percentage of students choosing to study abroad. Lehman called such claims, “untrue.”

Testing on lasagna culminated over the summer, resulting in three new recipes: Bangkok Lasagna with peanut sauce, “Get Lei-d” Hawaiian lasagna, and Canadian noodle-free lasagna. Davidson’s first ever Lasagna Week begins September 27.

Patterson Court chefs feel that Lasagna Week is the latest sign that Vail Commons continually offers vital competition. “I don’t know where we would be without the Commons,” said one longtime eating house chef. “They're consistently raising the bar, always staying one step ahead. But, I know that most of the houses are empty when Taste of Japan rolls by.”

“We're really excited about the coming week,” said Lehman, “I couldn’t ask for a better job. Seeing the looks on students’ faces as they pass through the [buffet] line and try what we've come up with... well, it’s simply a blessing.”some ‘Dean of Students’ who’s some dude sitting in India.” Agreed Christina Miller ’08, “I already called the Registrar to make sure that I got credit for my AP’s, and I didn’t understand a word he said. Honestly, I don’t think he knew to give me credit for my Bio AP. Plus, we need to submit our Pass-Fail forms two weeks early to allow for mailing to India, and my Sociology class gets cancelled every other period because the satellite feed from India keeps freezing.” Sophomore Gary Gallego was troubled by the human cost of the move. “This is just another example of corporate greed. These people were our friends, our mentors, and our confidantes. Now they are out of jobs.” Some students see positives from the outsourcing. “I must say, the new Dean of Faculty is extremely polite and his English is outstanding,” said Steven Balboni ’06. “And when I call ITS around midnight, there’s always someone to talk to now.” The President of Davidson College also has an upbeat view of the outsourcing. “Granted, many of my friends are no longer working for the college, and this saddens me greatly. But, I agree with the Board of Trustees that this was a move that the college needed to make in order to stay competitive with our peer institutions.” “Plus,” he added, “we're always looking to have a more international focus.”

Steve Brahms ’07 had quite a weekend down at the court. Not only did he hook up with a freshman girl on the dance floor at Turner, he brought another freshman back to his room to watch “Gone in 60 Seconds.” Suffice it to say, they hooked up as well! But, Steve wasn’t done. The next night, he hooked up with a Junior lacrosse player in Connor, and went back to her place.

Commons incident rocks campus

As Section VII of the Code of Responsibility states, “It is the responsibility of students to respect the property and rights of others. Therefore, students will not engage in any form of activity which results in or might naturally result in (1) damage to property, (2) interference with the rights of members of the community or visitors, or (3) interference with the normal activities of the College.” Last week, however, two or even all three of these clauses may have been broken during an incident at the Vail Commons. At around 12:15 PM on Thursday, a glass fell from the tray of a masked student to the floor, shattering on impact. The student then dropped his tray and sprinted out the back doors towards Patterson Court. His identity has not been discovered as of yet. Many are distraught over this incident. Dining Services employee Robin Steele, who was swiping CatCards at the time, was taken aback by the student’s behavior. “Sure, sometimes students will break a glass or spill some cereal,” said Robin, “but they’re usually always responsible about it. They'll pay the $1.04 that it costs to replace the glass and some even offer to help clean it up.” Honor Council member, Chris Martinez, stated, “This unknown student’s disregard for the Code of Responsibility is nearly unprecedented. If his identity is ever revealed, he will probably come before the Honor Council on the charges of: ‘engaging in an activity that resulted in damage to property, interference with the rights of dining guests to a clean floor, and interference with the activity of a normal lunch.’” Members of the faculty and student body are upset about this event as well. Professor of Anthropology, Dr. Warren Rawlings, is considering leaving his tenured position because of it. “I decided to teach here,” Dr. Rawlings declared, “because I thought the students were of the highest honor. If a student cannot be trusted to take responsibility for minor vandalism, how could I possibly trust them not to photocopy an entire essay for my final exam?” Jenny Bishop ’07 has decided to take higher security precautions after hearing of the incident. Jenny informed us, “I lock my doors every time I leave the room now. I just don’t feel safe anymore knowing someone that’s capable of such a dishonorable act is roaming unchecked around campus.” Not just those on campus were affected by the vandalism, but the entire community of the town of Davidson. Local community activist, Linda McDonald, was outraged that this could happen. “I just can’t believe that someone who signed the Honor Code has the capability to commit such a heinous act,” Linda is on record saying. “I’ve sent two or three ads to the Crier reminding everyone how serious this episode is and demanding that the perpetrator turn himself in. My kids are coached in soccer by a Davidson student, and I’m not sure if I’m going to take them to practice anymore with the knowledge that their coach could be a Code of Responsibility breaker.” Some students, however, feel that the whole occurrence has been exaggerated a bit. Said Benjamin Titus ’05, “Who cares?” Karen Stiles ’08 explained, “They had too many glasses at Commons anyways.” Furthermore, one masked student commented, “I’m pretty sure whoever dropped the glass has already fled to Canada by now, so we should probably all