THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2004 3

CatCard, from page 1

within two weeks of notification.

Currently, Summit Coffee is also considering CatCard acceptance.

Since Summit is an independent small business, it does not have to go through a corporate bureaucracy like CVS does
to get permission. It simply has to decide whether CatCard access is beneficial for the business.

According to the SGA, if business goes well for CVS and Summit Coffee, CatCard acceptance could also be expanded to
Ben and Jerry’s and the Brickhouse.

Cash or credit? No thank you. Davidson students have dined at Joel’s before, but now they can pay with their
CatCard account.

Watson, from page 1

said Lyons, whose project entails the study of bread-making techniques in France, Hungary, India, Vietnam, and Trinidad.

As a Watson Fellow, Powell said, “It’s very open-ended. There’s no final product except for quarterly reports. The focus is
more on the experience of traveling.”

During her travels in metropolitan areas, Powell said that she developed an interest in the “human interactions of people on
subways in non-verbal communication.”

The kinds of projects that Watson Fellows from Davidson undertake vary from the study of army ants (Kenneth Howard ’98)
to investigating land reform in Taiwan and Pakistan (David Barnard ’79). The topics of the proposed projects for this year
are just as interesting.

In terms of her reasoning for applying to be a Watson Fellow, Powell said, “The focus is more on the
experience of traveling.”

On a more musical note, McQuillen wants to study the healing effects of the harp and harp therapy in Paraguay
and Ireland.

“While studying with local musicians, you get more of the culture. The people are more passionate about their culture in
these two countries. The harp is an integral part of their music,” said McQuillen.

Drawing from her experiences with music, Fuhr desires “to find out whether in specific instances music can make a difference
in ethnic conflicts by making a difference in individual lives.”

The nominees were interviewed by a representative from the Watson Program. They now await the results which will be released
on March 15th.

Previous recipients from Davidson have gone into many different kinds of occupations ranging from neurology to being a vice president
of Wellington Management Company.

REGISTRATION BEGINS APRIL 2004

Two Main Sessions:
May 19 to June 30
July 6 to August 13

GW Summer offers a wide range of courses, including 500 courses from various disciplines.

GW also offers a summer abroad program.
www.summer.gwu.edu
email: summer@gwu.edu
phone: 202.994.6360

THE GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY
WASHINGTON DC

Senators reopen debate on pass/fail

By Blake McGraw
Senior Staff Writer

Reforming the college’s current pass/fail policy was the topic of discussion at last Thursday’s meeting of the student government.

Andy Agcaoili ’07, freshman class president and head of the SGA’s Academic Affairs Committee, presented a resolution to give students
more time to make a decision when it comes to pass/fail.

One of the SGA’s six main goals for this year’s administration was the reevaluation of the current pass/fail policy. The
Thursday resolution contained two options that will be sent to the Educational Policy Committee once the SGA passes the resolution.

The first option currently “proposes that the pass/fail deadline be extended two weeks” from its current deadline. By this time,
students would likely have received the first grade in the course, thus helping “the students evaluate their future progress in
the particular course.”

The second option would keep the initial pass/fail deadline the same as it is now. The resolution originally proposed a
two-week period during which students would have the opportunity to withdraw their pass/fail decision. The withdrawal of the decision forfeits
the option for that semester.

SGA President Charles Washington ’04 told the SGA he thought the second option “does the job just as well.”

Jeff Larrimore ’04 suggested that the withdrawal deadline be pushed to Reading Day. There seemed to be concurrence from the
other senators, as some suggested that if students have the option to withdraw pass/fail, they would work harder to reach
a grade that’s within reach.

“A lot of kids would work harder for the GPA boost if they can get it,” said Elizabeth Redpath ’04.

Agcaoili said that in researching similar schools to Davidson, “a lot of their policies were easier than ours.”

The resolution is still likely to be tinkered with, as the SGA will continue discussion of the topic next week.

In other business, the SGA addressed some minor changes to its bylaws. A November election had taken place in which
students voted to approve reducing the number of Union Board vice-presidents from two to one. The decision was delayed over
confusing wording on the ballot.

The Senate Court decided that “I choose to cast no vote” does not count as an official vote, and thus
the change passed with the needed two-thirds majority.

It was also decided that in future freshman senator elections, a picture and short description will accompany the ballots, as
freshmen may be more unfamiliar with their fellow classmates.

MOVIE EXTRAS/MODELS NEEDED

Local and statewide productions
No exp. req. all looks ages 18+
Minor and major roles avail.

EARN UP TO $300/DAY
1-800-818-7520
