14 THE DAVIDSONIAN
By Wilson McCrory
Senior Staff Writer

“Entrekin’s Hit Streak Comes to an End in 10-0 Loss.”

While Alex Entrekin ’06, the starting catcher for the Davidson baseball team, got grief for the headline, it was not
at all surprising when the Davidson Athletics site noted this on their front page last Friday. It seemed somewhat out
of place to put the individual note ahead of the team result, but the season to date has been less
than memorable for the 8-11 Wildcats, despite two wins against ACC counterparts Wake Forest and Duke. The performance of Davidson’s
new star catcher, however, has been catching some attention.

“This season’s been tough, and we’ve had a couple of close losses,” notes Entrekin of the 8-11 start, “but the
last two games we’ve really started to put things together, and the young guys are stepping up. Plus, any time
you can get two ACC wins, that says a lot about your program.”

One of those young guys stepping up, and a highlight of the disappointing early season, is Entrekin, who has been
by far the most consistent offensive threat in the Wildcat line-up. Last season, as a freshman, Entrekin split time with
classmate Dan Obermeier behind the plate, starting in 26 games and appearing in 28. He started off his freshman campaign
well, batting 12-40 (.300) over the first half of the season, but he cooled off over the latter half to
finish with a .222 average.

This year, Entrekin was again expected to share backstop duties with Obermeier, but injuries to his sophomore counterpart have limited
Obermeier’s playing time, leaving Entrekin behind the plate on a daily basis. “Playing every day is tough on the body,”
he concedes. “I’m usually pretty exhausted after a weekend series... At the same time, though, it’s a lot easier to
get into a rhythm as a player when you’re out there all the time.”

And before he finally saw his 17-game hit streak snapped against Elon last week, he was certainly in that rhythm.
“There actually was some pressure with the streak,” Entrekin admits, “as a bunch of my friends were dogging me when
the Sports Information guys started putting it in their articles after about nine games. It’s nice to have pressure at
every at-bat, but I definitely felt it during that streak.”

For the season, Entrekin’s batting average has jumped from .222 to .352, an increase of 130 points and 10 points
higher than the closest Wildcat. “I think I’ve learned to adjust to the college game this year,” he says of
his newfound success, “as the speed of the pitching and the quality change-ups are really hard to pick up initially...
Still, I’ve gotten a lot of luck this year, as a bunch of my hits are balls that just get
by the second baseman, or something like that. Also, I think there are just a lot of great hitters in
our line-up, and that makes it easier to get good pitches to hit for everyone.”

And for the record, after going hitless in the first two games of the weekend series with Elon, Entrekin began
a new streak in style on Sunday against Phoenix, knocking in the game-winning runs with a two-out, two-strike single to
left in the bottom of the eighth inning. This time, however, only the Davidson win made the headlines.

“PANINI” $4.99
FERRUCCI’S OLD TYME ITALIAN MARKET
Shops on the Green • I-77 Exit 28
704-896-3190 • www.ferruccis.com

By Erik Swanson
Senior Staff Writer

After emerging from arguably their most grueling and challenging non-conference schedule in recent years with an 8-6 record, the women’s
tennis team finally embarked on their Southern Conference campaign last weekend with two away matches. After traveling to Statesboro, Georgia
on Saturday to face the Georgia Southern Eagles, the Wildcats...Took on the College of Charleston Cougars in Charleston on Sunday.
The two long days of travel and tennis produced a 1-1 record for Davidson and growing confidence for the forthcoming
conference matches and conference tournament. Picked in the preseason coaches’ poll to finish sixth, right in the middle of the
SoCon pack, and with one solid conference win already to its name, Georgia Southern was a challenging team against which
to open conference play. But the Davidson women were up to the task, coming out strong in the doubles with
wins at all three positions. In helping the ’Cats earn the doubles point for the early 1-0 lead, all three
doubles teams improved their impressive winning streaks: Kelly and Meghan Fillnow ’05 extended their streak to three matches; Meggie Patterson
’05 and Lindsey Powel ’06 won their sixth straight; and Katherine Hatch ’04 and Sarah Borkowski ’05 stretched their winning
streak to seven with a victory at the number three slot. The Wildcats experienced similar success in the singles matches,
winning four of the six matches in straight sets. Only Kate Levitt at number five and Powel at number four
were pushed beyond two sets, facing tough matchups against the Eagles’ strong middle players.

“Georgia Southern is a young team that’s better than projected... our experience was a big factor. Mentally, we were very
well-prepared,” said Assistant Coach Kelley Cantrell. Levitt dropped the first set of her match before storming back to easily defeat
her opponent 3-6, 6-1, 6-1. Powel was less fortunate, losing her match in a third-set tiebreaker to her relentless, hard-serving
opponent, bringing the final margin of victory for Davidson to 6-1.

The ’Cats hoped to carry their momentum into Sunday’s match against College of Charleston, the defending Southern Conference champions who
defeated them in last year’s championship match. All three doubles matches were highly contested, but only Kelly and Meghan Fillnow
were able to emerge victorious, earning a 9-7 win at number one and stretching their winning streak as a team
to four. Already down 1-0 after losing the doubles point, the women needed to get out to a strong start
in the singles matches. Only Patterson at number two and Levitt at five were able to win their first sets,
though, as both fought their way to straight set wins. The other Cougar women proved to be too tough for
the Wildcats, as Davidson fell in straight sets at the one, three, and four positions to give Charleston the victory.
At number six, Hatch rallied to win the second set after losing the first. But because the overall match had
already been decided, Hatch and her opponent played a tiebreaker in place of a full third set, which Hatch lost
12-10. The win for Patterson was her seventh straight, and her recent dominance at the number two position earned her
SoCon Player of the Week honors for the week ending March 22.

The 5-2 loss was disappointing for the Wildcats, who hoped to avenge their defeat in last season’s championship match. One
major positive did emerge from the match, according to Cantrell. “We know we can beat them the next time we
play them,” Cantrell said.

Coming up for the women is a grueling schedule of five matches in six days, starting Friday at home against
Chattanooga and ending next Wednesday at home against Western Carolina, with three road matches in between. Chattanooga should be the
toughest of the five matches, though every match in the conference this year is challenging due to the parity. “There
are six schools in the conference that are pretty close,” remarked Cantrell, indicating that the ’Cats will have to fight
hard to achieve the conference championship they covet.
