THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 2004 5

Career Services completes
2003 graduate survey

By CHRISTIE KILBY
Staff Writer

The Career Services Office recently completed an exhaustive survey study to find out how graduates of the class of 2003 are spending their time.

Dean of Students Tom Shandley said that the first few years of life after Davidson often involve moving around and trying new things. Many students soon afterward attend graduate school.

The numbers from the survey only represent alumni who are in their first year after graduation.

In summary, the survey shows that approximately 62 percent of 2003 graduates are employed full-time; 27 percent are enrolled in graduate studies; five percent are taking intentional time off; four percent are still seeking employment; and two percent are conducting fellowships.

The survey’s results will be officially distributed on April 16 among the Davidson community, parents, the Board of Trustees, and current students.

Shandley pointed out that the overarching purpose of the survey is to show students what opportunities other graduates have pursued, and thus to offer guidance as current students make future plans.

“When we bring in such a talented group of students and provide an outstanding education, we need to take those talents, critical thinking skills, and communication skills into the world of work,” Shandley said.

The Career Services Office asked the ’03 graduates last May what their plans would be, and then asked again six months later to include those who had not yet finalized their plans.

The survey process has been a priority of Career Services for several years now.

Referring to Davidson’s mission statement, Shandley emphasized that the College remains confident that its graduates will lead lives of “leadership and service.”

As for the survey measuring service, Shandley said, “It doesn’t tackle that question. Service is an inherent value” and one that incoming students already demonstrate and that the institution hopes students will carry into their work.

Shandley noted that according to the survey, “we are not immune from the economy.”

Students’ employment numbers shift as the job market fluctuates. Yet the survey does reveal that Davidson students are learning that “how you find a job is changing,” he said. “As employers often opt for internet applications over campus recruitment visits, students would do well to research possibilities on their own”—and early.

When the entire survey is released to the public, students will be able to look up by major what jobs or other opportunities 2003 graduates have found and exactly where those opportunities have taken them geographically.

Lottery, from page 1

There was also a greater opportunity for students to obtain a single room.

“Some rising sophomores got singles, which is kind of unusual,” Marsicano said.

At the singles lottery last Wednesday, 60 females applied for single rooms and 55 received them. Of the 66 males applying for singles, 55 were able to obtain one. The students who did not get a single remain on the waiting list.

Tonight all the remaining double and suite rooms will be assigned during “Lottery Night.”

Not all the double rooms will be available at this time, and those not receiving rooms will be put on a waiting list.

Space will be reserved on the center first floor of Belk dormitory for upperclassmen until May 1, when the size of the freshmen class is determined.

Some upperclassmen students have expressed distaste regarding their current placement on first Belk.

“It was unfair that I had to live as a sophomore on a freshman hall with only three other rooms of sophomores,” said Will Stoudemire ’06.

Most problems are expected to come from the unusually large size of next year’s sophomore class, along with rising sophomores who receive high lottery numbers.

“Our hope will be that we can find a bed for all sophomores,” said Marsicano. “Our goal is that everyone who wants a bed on campus will have one.”

Despite this, rising sophomores who have poor lottery numbers are still anxious.

Jim Rastetter ’07 says that his lottery number is “not bad enough to get on a good waiting list and not good enough for a good room.”

“One of my friends with a good number made a sacrifice to give me the option of living on campus,” said Keith Farrow ’07.

On the other hand, some see high lottery numbers as a benefit.

Eric Peterson ’07 and his roommate for next year have high numbers and think they might be forced off campus.

“I’m kind of excited about the prospect of living off campus,” Peterson said.

“Our hope is that we can find a bed for all sophomores. Our goal is that everyone who wants a bed on campus will have one.”
-Leslie Marsicano, Director of Residence Life

Marsicano said that RLO’s “biggest challenge is about trying to guess about how many people will change their plans” and thus free up space, allowing students to be taken off the waiting list.

One of the changes that will occur next year is that Watts will become an upperclassmen dorm, while Little will become a freshman dorm. Both Watts and Little will, however, remain substance-free.

During last year’s lottery, Little was reserved for upperclassmen because RLO thought they would like the newly renovated dorm.

The upperclassmen, however, seem to prefer the larger rooms and movable furniture in Watts, and so the switch was made.

Triples will also be eliminated from the fourth floor of Belk.

April at the Lake
Friday, April 16th—Band (Monticello Road) and Cookout
Thursday, April 22nd—(night) student music, s’mores, bonfire
Friday, April 30th—water skiing, tubing, DJ

Every week: balls for pick-up games, canoes and paddleboats, Vamonos shuttle from Rich, t-shirt giveaways, and everything else the Lake Campus has to offer

*If you're interested in playing at the Lake, contact Andy Martin at anmartin@davidson.edu.

Brought to you by SCA

Co-Sponsored by Union Board and PCC