“THE DAVIDSONIAN

News |

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 2004 5

Davidson even with ACS, below Ivies on grade inflation

Compared to some closer peer institutions, Davidson has remained consistent with their trends of low or no grade inflation. In prestigious private schools like the Ivy League, however, evidence abounds of grade inflation.

Comparing and analyzing data from a variety of schools presents difficulties, and conclusive studies are few and far between. Therefore, impressions of national inflation trends and Davidson’s place in them vary.

Davidson in lock-step with ACS peers

“If you take out the exceptions like Harvard, I don’t think we are far out of line with the rest of the country,” said Dr. Hansford Epes, Registrar and Professor of German and Humanities.

The registrars of five schools from the Associated Colleges of the South (ACS) meet informally to share information at a level of detail uncommon between schools. Comparing GPAs from 1996-2002, Davidson has remained “pretty consistently in the middle,” according to Dr. Epes.

This group consists of Furman University, the University of the South (Sewanee), Rhodes College, Washington and Lee, and Davidson College.

The ACS is composed of 13 schools in all.

Though we may be in sync with this small group, the data is not extensive enough to draw conclusions about long-range trends.

Ross noted that, “Compared to some other ACS schools, our grading is really not that different.”

The interaction of this sort between institutions is rare. Many universities are fiercely protective of their data. Even the ACS numbers, which Davidson has, were only provided to the Davidsonian on the basis that the specific university and specific GPA were not linked. Registrars at other national liberal arts colleges contacted by the Davidsonian, including Swarthmore and Williams, declined to reveal their own internal statistics.

Beyond Mason-Dixon

Yet when taking in a bigger picture than the ACS, evidence exists of grade inflation at top universities, as do detractors of those studies.

“It’s one of those things that we can take pride in... where some of the better schools are moving towards where we are,” Dean of Faculty Clark Ross said.

“With a paucity of data... my notion is that our grades have not inflated at anywhere near the rate of our peer institutions,” said President Bobby Vagt, referring to those top private schools.

In 2002, the Academy of Arts & Sciences published a report that found “clear evidence of grade and evaluation inflation at U.S. universities.” It based its analysis on the statistics gathered by a number of older studies that traced grade inflation to its start in the 60s. In January 2003, Duke Professor Stuart Rojstaczer wrote an op-ed piece in the Washington Post entitled “Where All Grades Are Above Average.” He collected official data shared by about 85 colleges and universities on their average GPA trends.

His conclusions, available on the Web, showed that GPAs at both public and private institutions rose roughly 0.2 grade points from 1982-2002. However, his analysis was based on a sample of only 29 institutions, limiting its effectiveness as an argument in favor of inflation.

The Christian Science Monitor reported on a portion of that national study: “About 34 percent... earned C’s and D’s or worse, the study reported. About 41 percent earned B’s and C’s or mostly B’s. Meanwhile, 26 percent earned A’s and B’s or mostly A’s.”

A spokeswoman for the Association of American Colleges and Universities told the Chronicle of Higher Education recently that the new report “debunks all the furor over grade inflation.”

But even if national trends are debated, inflation trends at the Ivy League schools seem self-evidently high.

Princeton University recently gathered data from seven other Ivy League institutions, Stanford University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and the University of Chicago and reported the following: “recent percentages of A grades given in undergraduate courses at these institutions range from about 44 to 55 percent A’s.” For Princeton, that marked a 31 percent rise since the mid-70s.

The controversy at Princeton

Monday’s decision by Princeton faculty to give less than 35 percent A’s in undergraduate classes has divided the students. The 35 percent figure mirrors grade distributions at Princeton from 1987 to 1992, Princeton’s website reported.

Vera Dadok, a Princeton freshman from Durham, NC, said, “I’ve talked to a few students on the matter, and I think that a majority are not in favor of the proposal. Most agree that grade inflation may be a problem, but think that setting quotas for different grades is not the answer.

“I feel that, on principle, it should be possible for all the students... to deserve an A for the course.” Dadok also feared capping top grades would make students more competitive. “It’ll be like the nuclear arms race, but with people hoarding A’s instead of weapons.”

Charlie Stone, also a Princeton freshman, disagreed, though ceding he was in the minority. “I think it is perfectly reasonable that the faculty should say that only around a third of work generally deserves an ‘A’, and to recalibrate grades to that standard,” Stone said.

100%

Senior Class Gift Update

The class of 2004 has set a new Davidson Record!

Come celebrate this accomplishment with strawberries and champagne on Wednesday, May 5th.

If you haven't participated in the Senior Class Gift but would like to, please visit our website at www.Davidson.edu/giving or contact Maria Tardugno.

President and Mrs. Vagt hosted by

Senior Class Gift!