The Davidsonian First Class U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY" @ DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004 VOLUME 95, NUMBER 16

Over a dozen nominees during the school year

Gender balance policy to affect admissions
Competition expected to be especially strong among females
By BRANDON CARROLL Managing Editor

As reported last week, the Admissions Office has received a record number of applications from students wishing to be part
of a smaller-than-normal incoming freshman class, making getting into Davidson extremely competitive this year. A little-known secret of the admissions
game, however, is that not all applications are created equally.

Specifically, the Office of Admission and Financial Aid must abide by Trustee policy, as must all agencies of the college.
In regard to admissions, the Board of Trustees has created a policy that the college will maintain a gender balance
of roughly fifty percent men and fifty percent women over four years. Dean of Admission and Financial Aid Nancy Cable
said, "We are well within Trustee policy. We currently have two classes that are a few more men than women,
and two that are a few more women than men."

Belk to be renovated during summer
By BLEVINS SHELNUTT Senior Staff Writer

Belk Dormitory is slated to undergo several major renovations this summer. The most significant renovations will consist of redoing the
building’s electrical, plumbing, and heating and air conditioning systems. The Residence Life Office (RLO) hopes these improvements will help eliminate
the mold problem that has persisted in the dorm.

The renovations will also allow the dorm to be much more handicap accessible. An elevator will be installed in the
building, and two additional handicap suites will also be added. The handicap suites have a private bath with a roll-in
shower and handicap-accessible sink. Currently, there is only one handicap-accessible room in Belk.

The lounge areas on first and fourth Belk will be expanded and enhanced as well. Along with a television area,
the first Belk lounge will have a reading area located where the Writing Center is currently situated. Two double dorm
rooms in fourth Belk will be reduced to singles in order to enlarge its lounge.

The building’s bathrooms will also be modified. Several of the urinals will be removed so that there is only one
on the wall of each bathroom. Bathrooms will also offer more privacy, as some showers will have dressing areas. Other
than a few alterations, the appearance of the dorm rooms will not change significantly. New movable computer desks will replace
the existing built-in computer desks, and the floors of the rooms will be carpeted.

Dean Leslie Marsicano, Director of Residence Life, commented on the renovations. “The most important elements of the renovation will not
be immediately apparent to students but will make a big difference in their Belk experience throughout the year. We’re bringing
the electrical, plumbing, heating and air conditioning systems into the 21st century so that students will enjoy much more reliable
service,” Marsicano said.

Because the renovations will require the entire duration of the summer to be completed, RLO is insisting that students currently
residing in Belk leave the building within 24 hours after completing their last exam. They are encouraged to room with
a friend in another dorm if they wish to stay.through graduation. RLO will move into the second floor of Martin
Court F during the renovations. Since RLO anticipates that renovations will not be complete until the first day of move-in
in August, neither students living in Belk or F next semester will be able to return to campus early. Marsicano
said that student athletes affected by this arrangement will probably reside in other dorms with team members until the regular
move-in date. Marsicano encourages students living in Belk to start thinking about taking exams early. “We’re working on an accelerated
construction schedule in order to complete this enormous job in 12 summer weeks. We’ll really need the cooperation of this
year’s residents in moving out promptly and next year’s residents in moving as scheduled to meet our goal of having
the building ready for students,” Marsicano said.

The same company that is currently working on Chambers will also be handling the renovations of Belk. The cost for
the improvements will be approximately four million dollars, and funding is coming from room rents. Belk’s renovations are part of
an eight-year plan to renovate all of the residence life halls. Davidson is currently in the second year of the
plan. So far, Richardson, Ryburn, and Flowe have been completed. After Belk is completed, Marsicano says RLO’s next biggest concern
will be Duke Residence Hall.

However, some question the gender requirement, due to the fact that on the whole, the set of applications from females
are frequently better than those from men, making getting into Davidson more competitive for women than men. “The long-term trends
of applications are that applications of women are increasing and quality is increasing, while numbers for men have plateaued,” said
Lou Ortmayer, Professor of Political Science and chair of the Faculty Committee on Admission and Financial Aid. President Bobby Vagt
defended the trustee policy. “This is not a matter of saying we’re taking someone just to get a matter of
equity. We look at achievement, [and] we look at potential,” Vagt said. “In terms of actual measurable performance, women have
matured earlier in their high school years. With respect to men, one of the challenges with the Admissions group is
to find somebody who can come here and do well, and when the goddess of maturity does strike, they will
be..."

see Admissions, page 5

Education prof critical of Teach for America
LESLIE HEMPSON
Senior Staff Writer

Teach For America’s efforts to recruit Davidson students into its program will conclude on Sunday, the application deadline, but the
controversy surrounding this program will most likely continue. Although Teach For America’s on-campus coordinators have blitzed students with e-mails and
informational meetings promoting their program for the past several months, Dr. Rudy Jackson, Assistant Professor of Education, warned interested students
to think twice before making such a serious commitment to the organization. According to Jackson, Teach For America is a
wonderful idea, but it suffers two serious flaws. First, it sends recent college graduates with little to no teaching experience
to some of the most challenging public school districts in the country. The children in those districts often perform below
grade-level and need...

see Teach, page 3

SPORTS: It’s Valentine’s Day, love sports SEE PAGE 12
HUMOR, PAGE 9
Who will get your vote next Monday? NEWS, PAGE 4
How to win the heart of an A&L editor. A&L, PAGE 6
