THE DAVIDSONIAN
Arts & LIVING
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2004

Diet dilemmas and nutritional nourishment cause at Davidson
By Katie HUNTER
Staff Writer

Davidson students are known for having a bit of everything “on their plates” when it comes to academics, athletics, and extracurricular activities, but how are they faring in regards to health and nutrition? With the holiday season and final exams right around the corner, the stress level often goes up and the dietary awareness goes down, as many students pull all-nighters and chow down on festive—but fattening—fare.

These are only a couple of the unhealthy habits that Davidson’s resident nutritionist, Theresa Logan, often sees contributing to students’ poor nutrition and weight gain. Other factors include the tendency to eat late, when calories are stored and left unused as one sleeps, and to skip meals, which interferes with metabolism. The dreaded “freshman 15” can creep on unexpectedly, especially as students are presented daily with a variety of dietary choices unlike those at home. “Some of the food is even cooked much differently and is more fattening than I’m used to,” claims Harper Addison ’08, “though it can still be pretty basic stuff like chicken and salmon.”

With such a diversity of dishes available, many students question how to choose wisely and maintain healthful eating habits. In such a case, a visit to a nutrition expert would certainly be a first step. Logan, who serves three days a week as Davidson’s own campus nutritionist from her office in Vail Commons, feels that her position is unique and beneficial to the school. “What I’m offering is essentially a free service, which you don’t get at many other colleges, and many students don’t even know I’m here,” says Logan, who primarily acts as a counselor for those with dietary and body image issues. She also creates the “Dietician’s Choice” menu option plan from the selections available at Commons on a particular day. This menu varies in caloric content, but is generally “a moderate combination of proteins, carbohydrates, and is lower in fat than some of the fried or sauced options.”

Logan also highlights some important nutritional issues pertaining particularly to college students on the Davidson website, under the link “Nutrition” on the Dining Services page. The site offers tips on how to avoid the dreaded freshman weight gain, along with ideas for “late-riser” breakfasts and healthy snacks. When it comes to meals, Logan emphasizes the importance of having “five to six different food groups on your tray,” which includes meat, vegetables, dairy, and fat. “A lot of people mistakenly think that fat is bad,” says Logan, “but we all need some in our diet, especially monounsaturated fat and Omega 3 fatty acids.” Some other misconceptions that Logan wishes to clarify are those relating to food and assistance provided by Davidson’s dining services. “You can email the executive chef 24 hours before a meal and request a grilled chicken breast, and it will be ready for you by that next day,” she states. Logan also mentions the “Behind the Scenes Kitchen Tour,” a thirty-minute hall program that she and the staff of Vail Commons devised in response to some

Photo by Sarah Robinson
Lack of sleep can cause students to neglect eating habits.Concerns brought up by RLO. “Some of the hall counselors said that people on their floors were concerned about the quality of food and food preparation in Commons,” says Logan, “so we created this program to clarify those issues and address nutritional concerns.” The program involves a 15-minute walk through Commons' immense kitchen, where students are invited to observe meal preparation and ask questions of the chefs. “Many students are not aware that everything in Commons is prepared from scratch,” says Logan, “except for chicken parmesan, eggplant parmesan, and tomato soup.” Students spend the last fifteen minutes of the program discussing nutrition and health with Logan, who invites anyone with additional questions or concerns back for a personal counseling session. “I am in the office from nine to three on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays,” she mentions, “and am available to talk about anything from designing a nutritional or fitness plan to eating disorders.” She also refers students with concerns about eating disorders or difficulties with body image back to that Nutrition site, where several warning signs of such disorders are posted. Logan stresses, however, that “if you are 18 or older, you are an adult, and admitting to someone that you need help is the first step.”

Eating disorders are typically not the main issue that people on campus have with regards to nutrition. Some students instead complain of a lack of healthful options available in Vail Commons and the Union Cafe, which they say impedes their ability to eat right. “The desserts are pretty much consistently good, but sometimes the stuff on the salad bar and in the hot lines doesn’t appeal to me,” states Ashley Cramer ’08. Logan summarizes her opinion on the matter this way, stating that “Commons offers a variety of choices, but we all have to make our own choices.” Logan also has opportunities to suggest certain options to the chefs of Davidson’s dining hall, who come to her with questions or concerns over vegetarian options and protein variation. She reiterates, however, that students are ultimately the ones responsible for their own diets. “Healthy options are always there.”

Though this week and the next are sure to prove stressful, Logan reminds diligent Davidson students to adhere to a few basic guidelines when it comes to maintaining their diets and their sanity. “Choose healthy snacks, take study breaks, and most importantly, get adequate rest!” That sounds like some good and guilt-free advice.

Got Art? Want to write for A&L? Contact elburkhead or anmartin.

“Day Without Art” inaugurates Ars Longa, a new art club, with the first of what Cooley describes as an array of art-related activities and events. “It’s a problem with the rules that are set up right now. Club baseball can go and get $1,400 as a first-year organization and ‘Woodrow’ received a significant amount, but since we do not have a ‘product’ we cannot get that kind of money. But we have a product to produce. We have ceramics to produce. We have photography to produce. But now we don’t even have the money to do ceramics.” Ars Longa originally requested $300 from the ATC for the “Day Without Art” alone. Much of this would have gone to cover fabric and other materials, though, mandated.