THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2004

Sustained Dialogues Groups discuss ethnicity, religion
By Carey BAXTER
Staff Writer

Beginning in October, members of the Sustained Dialogue Groups hope to break down barriers of ethnic and religious intolerance on
the Davidson campus. Professor of Anthropology Nancy Fairley and Jill Williams, Assistant Director of Lilly Programs for the Theological Exploration
of Vocation, brought the program to Davidson last spring in an effort to “create openness and a stronger sense of
community rather than intolerance and social strife,” according to Williams.

It is hoped that students will be “challenged to think intentionally about how their ethnic and religious identities affect their
actions in a larger community,” said Williams. First and second-year students in groups of as many as eight will discuss
“personal religious and ethnic identities and the role these identities play in shaping our lives and worldviews,” said Williams. Students
will be given the opportunity to explore their own personal identities, hear the experiences of others, and discuss controversial topics.
Williams and Fairley hope that this will enable such discussions to happen naturally on the Davidson campus.

Two trained student facilitators will meet with each of the four groups on Saturdays in October and November to discuss
identity stories and questions such as “What responsibility, if any, does Davidson College have to its non-Christian students, faculty, and
staff?” and “Does a pre-college orientation program for ethnic minority students serve to create or tear down a sense of
campus community?”

The Lilly Programs, which is sponsoring the Sustained Dialogue Groups for the second consecutive semester, seeks to promote faith, spirituality,
values, and service in the lives of all students and encourages the exploration of theology as a vocation. The Lilly
Programs sponsored two Sustained Dialogue Groups last spring. Facilitators for this semester’s discussions include upper-class students Faris Al Mazrui, Phia
Salter, LeAndra Rice, Nana Yaw Kyei, Ned Reddrop, Adam Martin, Hannah Kim, and Irma Navarro, most of whom participated in
the first two groups last spring. Faculty and staff advisors are training facilitators this month.

The short-term goal of Sustained Dialogue Groups “is to create safe communities in which these issues of identity can be
discussed honestly and openly,” said Williams. The long-term goal “is to create a community on Davidson’s campus that celebrates individual
particularities and human diversity,” she said.

When asked if any of the groups will present the outcomes of their discussions to the Davidson community, Williams replied
that it is not expected that the groups will come to any kind of consensus or conclusion at the end
of their discussions. The focus, she said, is simply on “relationship building.”

The Lilly Programs was founded in 1998 at Princeton University by Harold Saunders, a Princeton Trustee and former State Department
employee, in order to ease racial tensions on the campus. Discussions will take place on Oct. 2, 16, 30, and
Nov. 13 in Chambers. First and second-year students are invited to join. Those who wish to participate must notify Nancy
Fairley or Jill Williams this Thursday, September 23.

Endowment, from page 1

President Vagt. The endowment’s management focuses on diversified, long-term investments. School officials made clear that they do not plan to
risk aggressive investment in order to enlarge the endowment. Rather, they look towards sound, consistent management. “We don’t have any
plans to take any extraordinary risks in order to gain ground,” said Director of Investment and Financial Planning Burton Hudson.

Davidson’s endowment has a long history of sound financial management. The National Association of College and Business Officers (NACBO) ranks
the 10-year returns on Davidson College’s endowment in the 91st percentile among colleges. School officials cited a diverse body of
investments as the source of the endowment’s steady growth. “Davidson’s endowment is very well diversified in my opinion,” said Vice
President for Business and Finance Dr. Karen Goldstein. “It is more diversified than many endowments of similar size.” Goldstein describes
diverse asset allocation as a buffer against fluctuations in the economy. “Davidson endowment features other investments that don’t depend entirely
on the market,” she said. “In managing the endowment, you want to maximize gains without too much risk.”

Minimizing risk while maximizing earnings serves as a primary focus for the Board of Trustees Finance and Budget Committee, which
controls decisions on the endowment. The Board is composed of alumni and donors, many with extensive investment experience. The committee
receives recommendations from Hudson and Goldstein. “We could take greater risks, but that wouldn’t be prudent,” said Hudson. The current
investment strategy aims to maintain the endowment’s annual contribution to the school’s operating budget. Goldstein described the endowment as an
“investment in perpetuity.” “We expect Davidsonto last forever and need an investment strategy that will last forever,” said Goldstein. “We
need the endowment to pay both present and future expenses.” The long-term investment policy focuses on wise investments and relatively
safe gains. The only feasible way for Davidson to mount a significant rise against its national peers is through donations.
“The way we’re going to catch up with other schools is not just through good management but through fundraising and
getting people to give to the school,” said Goldstein. The level of donation over past decades largely controls the present
size of any school’s endowment. “Davidson did not have a big heavy donor base back in the early part of
the last century, so our endowment is not as big as a lot of our competitors,” said Hudson. Fundraising has
become a higher priority for the school recently. “Up until the last 25 years we didn’t work very hard at
raising money,” said Vagt. Fundraising has been a central focus of the current administration. Davidson’s “Let Learning be Cherished” campaign,
a five-year fundraising program, is on pace to outdo its target of $250 million. As seen in other schools, a
large endowment encourages additional growth. Harvard features an endowment of over $22 billion, the largest of any school. The size
of their endowment allows for bold investment strategies, and Harvard netted an impressive 21.1% return in 2004. Davidson will continue
to utilize a more conservative investment strategy, but the smaller endowment does not hamper the college. US News has ranked
Davidson in the top 10 for two consecutive years. “We have fewer endowment funds to spend,” said Goldstein. “It forces
us to work harder. We have to be more effective and efficient to provide a top-level education.” Even if the
market does not drive it, Kania anticipates future growth. “While we don’t know what market performance will be,” said Kania,
“we do know that fundraising effort and the generosity of donors will help us increase the endowment in future years.”

Newly elected senators share enthusiasm for coming year
By LypiE WHITE
Staff Writer

Thursday’s SGA meeting welcomed 12 recently elected first-year and independent senators. All officers shared enthusiasm and a willingness to work.
“I want to give back to this community that already I love so much, and student government is a very
effective vehicle for doing so,” said Freshmen Class President Sarah Allen ’08. “I’ve always been amazed at how much a
group of students is able to accomplish working together, and I wanted to be a part of that here at
Davidson,” said Allen. Allen acknowledged receiving pointers and ideas from fellow classmates as to what changes could be implemented for
improvement. “I talked to a few people at the CROP lunch about trying to set up a system where students
with large meal plans like Freshmen could donate all or at least some of the money designated for that meal
to CROP instead of simply wasting it,” she said. A common thread among the newly elected officers is the desire
to actively seek positive change and provide a voice for the student body. “My goal is to be a strong
voice for the freshmen amongst the upperclassmen and the administration,” said Allen. Freshman Senator Joshua Choi ’08 said he would
do anything to create the best possible environment for the school. “I want to take into account different sides of
issues and subsequently pursue what is best for the majority of my fellow students,” he said. Because of the large
number of candidates, campaigning was an integral part of the election process. “I put up some signs, but only so
that people could connect my name with my face since there are at least 10 Sarah’s in the freshmen class,”
said Allen. “I created posters, was interviewed by 1610 AM radio station about the freshman election, and introduced myself to
the freshmen,” said Choi. “New people always bring new energy and ideas to SGA,” said SGA President Katherine Hubbard ’05.
First-year students interested in running for SGA must do so after two and a half weeks at Davidson. “Elections are
always held in the first month of school so that the freshmen can be a part of our goal-making process
and get involved as early as possible,” said Hubbard. “My hope is that the SGA committees will be productive and
that all members of SGA will be involved.” Specific goals for SGA will be formulated at the retreat in early
October. SGA also announced its plans to hold a bonfire pep rally in anticipation of this weekend's Homecoming celebrations. The
event is scheduled for September 23 at 8 p.m. and will occupy the center of Patterson Court.
