By VIRGINIA GREGORY AND ANDREW SHAPIRO
Restaurant Critics

Nuzzled in a corner of Mooresville—far from Exit 36’s chain restaurants—the Prickly Pear offers modern Mexican cuisine in an elegant
environment. Inspired by trips to Mexico and experience in a locally operated restaurant chain, owner Val Panizzut sought to create
“an upscale Mexican restaurant unlike any other Mexican restaurant in the area.” Mexican food classics like burritos and fajitas share
the menu with more innovative dishes that extend Mexican themes to a new scope of ingredients. There is something for
all tastes, with a number of fish, chicken, and beef entrees that are paired with delicious side dishes like cilantro-pesto
mashed potatoes, flavored rice, and fried plantain chips.

The year-old restaurant is housed in an attractive restored church on Main Street. The decor is elaborate down to hand-blown
glasses and wooden chargers at each place setting. Rafters and a high ceiling give an open-air feeling, but the warm
red and orange walls and the extensive woodwork create a sense of intimacy. As the upscale decor suggests, prices are
slightly higher than those found at other eateries, but the portions and quality of the food justify spending between nine
and nineteen dollars for an entree.

Intrigued by the restaurant’s concept of elevating Mexican cuisine to a more urbane level, we recently visited the Prickly Pear.
Our skepticism began to wane when our server brought a basket of warm homemade rolls to the table accompanied by
a delicious honey-chipotle butter instead of the typical chips and salsa. A look at the drink menu, replete with contemporary
margaritas, cocktails, and a wide selection of wines had us hooked. We tried the Prickly Pear Margarita (the restaurant’s specialty)
and the Prickly Passion, a sweet blend of citron, guava, and prickly pear cactus. Both were not only innovative but
were also large and smart combinations of subtle flavors.

Overall we felt that the creative endeavors taken on by Chef Raul Ortegon were successful in most cases, with only
the occasional miss. Drawing from his experience at the famous Las Brisas hotel in Acapulco, Ortegon successfully fuses European flair
with traditional Mexican flavors. Both of the soups that we tried (a pureed black bean and a roasted poblano pepper
and fresh corn chowder) were full of flavor and texture. Like the rest of our meal, they came to the
table piping hot. The Ensalada de Berros, composed of watercress, endive, pear, heart of palm, and toasted almond slices, was
also quite popular among the table. Our crab cake appetizer boasted large pieces of crab and finely diced vegetables and
was perfectly browned and crisp on the outside. An ancho pepper remoulade accompanied it well and added zest.

For the main course, we tried the evening’s special, a pecan-encrusted striped bass with a refried bean cake and sautéed
broccolini, as well as the Pollo a la Campana and the Sabana de Res. The avocado salsa on top of
the fish did not visually complement the pecan crust; however, the bean cake and the broccolini were both delicious. Our
pan-seared chicken breasts had a mouth-watering roasted red pepper chardonnay sauce paired with a julienne of squash, zucchini, and carrots,
but the consistency of the Mexican risotto that accompanied it left something to be desired. The beef tenderloin was cooked
to a perfect medium and came with a variety of flavorful, woodsy mushrooms. With such skill at pairing unlikely ingredients,
we could not help but wonder why Chef Ortegon failed to offer significant entrees for vegetarians.

While the appetizers and entrees were a satisfying meal in and of themselves, we felt that it was our duty
as food critics to sample some of the desserts. We selected the Pear Pocket and a White Chocolate-Passion Fruit Mousse
from the half dozen offerings. Our mousse had a delicious, creamy texture and a dynamic combination of flavors. Though the
pears were cooked to perfection ina sweet sauce, the “pocket” of phyllo dough seemed a bit doughy on the inside—where
it had not been completely cooked. The palatable taste of each dessert was complemented by its creative presentation. Service was
attentive and professional in most cases, although we were somewhat unimpressed when our plates were removed before the table was
finished. The persistent busboy circled our table at least five times with the water pitcher inquiring “mas agua?” even when
our glasses were clearly over halfway full. It is important to note that the specialty dishes are only available at
dinner, but the lunch menu boasts numerous classics with a twist like Oaxacan cheese dip with shiitake mushrooms at very
reasonable prices (entrees range from about six to eight dollars). Owner Val Panizzut explained to us that his overarching theme
is to “wow” his customers with each meal, and it is safe to say that this upscale Mexican eatery’s sophistication
“wowed” us both, carrying us a world away from the nearby land of strip malls. If you seek savvy, tastefully
presented food from south of the border at a good value, the Prickly Pear merits a visit. The Prickly Pear
is open seven days a week with live jazz by Robert Fernandez beginning at 7:00 PM on Saturday nights to
enhance the dining experience. Reservations are almost essential on the weekend, and both the dinner and lunch menus are due
to change next month.

The Prickly Pear
761 N. Main Street
Mooresville, NC 28115
T (704) 799-0875
F (704) 799-1729

Restaurant Report Card
Atmosphere: B+
Service: A-
Value: B+
Food: B+

LIVING
Mooresville’s Prickly Pear: More than plain Burritos, tacos, and enchiladas

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, March 24, 2004

Brendan Wittstruck’s Exploding Machines of Love
By Liz Billet
Senior Staff Writer

When a new show is being installed, the gallery doors are shut and covered in brown paper, through which one
can often see an inexplicable blackness, as if, emptied of art, the galleries just disappear. These galleries are almost always
stocked with neatly arranged ‘objects’, a candy store of bright colors and shiny mediums. The Day of Blackness is actually
a nice palette cleanser between gallery shows, particularly at this time when senior studio majors put on their individual shows,
and new works are on a weekly display. Student shows are the goldmine of Davidson Art. They’re constantly changing, so
there’s always something new to catch our short-lived attention span. One may know the artist personally, which always makes his
or her work more interesting. But most important, every show has an opening reception that provides free food to anyone
who is hungry. This food often includes cheese cubes, imported crackers, and even Oreos. Curious? You can partake of such
bounty tomorrow night in the VAC for the opening of Brendan Wittstruck’s senior show. However, one may be distracted from
cheese consumption by those gorgeous paintings. Wittstruck works primarily in oils. Tomorrow’s show will present Wittstruck’s play with the abstraction
of the human figure. In fact, he says, “It is almost like playing with the paint, although the ‘play’ is
laced with not a little bit of frenetic twenty-something Expressionism.” His preferred artists touch on this frenetic note: Egon Schiele,
Max Beckmann, Lucian Freud, Francis Bacon, and Jenny Saville. Wittstruck’s work can’t be too impetuous. After all, he works in
oil, which dries very slowly and thus, can’t be painted at top speeds. During the past four years, he has
learned that the paint he places on the canvas is not just a means to an end, each stroke is
as important as the final painting—much like a musical composition is nothing without each of its notes. Wittstruck was guided
by the pointed and famous modernist adage offered to him by professor Herb Jackson. “Herb once told me ‘When someone
listens to a piece of music they don’t ask what it is or what it is supposed to be. So
why then must people insist on seeing something in a piece of art besides the art itself?’ It’s a good
question.” He also admits the risk inherent to making something “pretty”—that is, who gets to define what aesthetics are good
aesthetics? But he is not afraid to proclaim his goal of creating a beautiful painting, with the hope that the
viewers of his art will be eager to be engaged and “infinitely involved” in examining his work. You will have
to go and see the show for yourself to decide if his work is worth a good look, and not
just a glance. But, while no art should be taken in a gulp, I would recommend to all Mr. Wittstruck’s
show as something to be infinitely savored.
