Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN Arts & LIVING WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2004 7

Dorm Living: The Best (and Worst) of Life at Davidson

By Katie HUNTER Staff Writer

A day in the life of a Davidson student doesn’t allow much time for leisure, but where does one go
when those precious free moments are available? “Any spare minute that I have between classes, I come to my room
to listen to music or nap,” discloses freshman Sarah Rice ’08. Many people would agree with Rice when it comes
to their rooms, viewing them as a private getaway from the craziness of college life. Perfect for reading, studying, or
that elusive action of sleeping, dorms provide students with the familiarity of having their own personal space.

“In some of our Counseling Center workshops on stress management, we encourage students to attend to ways in which they
can make their residence hall rooms seem really theirs, imparting a sense of ‘home’ or haven to their rooms,” explains
Dr. David Staton, Director of Student Counseling. Students often choose to do this by adding personal touches and furnishings to
remind themselves of regional ties. “I saw a room with the Texas state flag on the door, and thought it
was a cool idea,” said Elizabeth Moore ’08, on her decision to display the South Carolina state flag in her
room. Moore, from Spartanburg, says that the flag reminds her of home, especially since most items in her room “are
from Davidson or E-Bay.” Posters, photographs, flags, and stuffed animals are a few of the more popular items that adorn
Davidson dorms.

While the majority can find some common ground when it comes to particular dorm decorations, major differences exist in the
way students treat their special spaces. A brief tour of each of the major residence halls provided some great insight
into how students utilize, use, and sometimes abuse their temporary havens. Some take great pride in their glorified closets, choosing
to take the time to shop for unique furnishings, hang wall adornments, and even buy permissible pets like goldfish. Many
of the more hospitable students opt to extravagantly “doup” their dorms in hopes that friends and hall mates will visit.
As first-year student Whitney Waites ’08 puts it, “We decorated our room in a manner that makes not only us
feel comfortable, but our friends feel comfortable as well.” Waites, referring to herself and roommate Emily Zipperstein ’08, furnished their
pad with a giant dish chair from Urban Outfitters. It comfortably seats hall mate Kathryn Hamilton ’08, who admits that
she “hibernates in this chair, even when Emily and Whitney aren’t in the room.” This room has received numerous compliments
from visitors, including one from fellow Third Belk resident David Dennis ’08. “I call it mamma’s crib because when you
walk in, you feel at home,” states Dennis.

Occupying the other end of the decorative spectrum are a few residents of 2nd Richardson. Roommates Yancy Flores ’08 and
Morgan Koukopoulos ’08 admit that they have greater concerns than the state of their living quarters, which were too cluttered
for the interview to take place in their quarters. “We can’t have anybody over to sit down,” said Flores apologetically,
“because my laundry is all over the chair.” It is difficult to walk into their room without stepping on some
article of clothing or leftover food box. They have also taken to hanging papers from their central light source, in
an effort to create “mood lighting” and shield out the glare. “That was Morgan’s brainstorm,” declared Flores. “It doesn’t work
so well now since most of the papers have fallen, but we are too lazy to put them back up.”
When asked why they allowed their dorm to turn into such a dive, Flores candidly replied, “Morgan and I really
do mean well, but we just have other priorities.”

---To clean up our room, but we are always busy and don’t see a reason to if people don’t come
over.” This seems to resonate with many Davidson students, who have disorderly dorms as a consequence of their constant activity.
This leaves little time for decorating and clean-up. In Flores’ case, though, the lack of tidiness often causes more trouble
than finding time for housekeeping. “The funky smell in our room came from that glass of milk I left out
for 3 days, combined with the odor of Morgan’s workout clothes,” he states. However, Flores admits that most of the
stuff in his room is just “out and waiting to be put away.”

“We encourage students to attend to ways in which they can make their residence hall rooms seem really theirs, imparting
a sense of home or haven to their rooms.” - Dr. David Staton, Director of Student Counseling

Putting possessions away and making good use of space are nearly as important as the decorations one uses when it
comes to dorm living. The average dimensions of a Belk dormitory room are only 15’6” by 10’. A recent renovation,
however, has made Belk residence hall one of the finer buildings on campus. “The carpeting makes it a lot nicer,
even though it will probably get torn up pretty soon,” states Jeff Yeakel ’07, a former resident of 1st Belk.
“There definitely used to be a foul odor in Belk,” Yeakel reminisces, “especially on my floor.” Yeakel now inhabits 1st
Watts, living on a comparatively quieter sub-free floor. When asked about the best aspect of his room now, Yeakel immediately
replied, “my roommate, Jon Holbrook.”

Not everyone is as lucky as those two when it comes to living, and decorating, harmoniously. “One roommate’s neat and
clean, quiet, organic, candle-scented haven is another’s sterile hell, because he or she instead craves visual and auditory noise to
feel at home,” states Dr. Staton. This is one reason why Davidson employs the Meyers-Briggs Personality Test to determine best
roommate matches. The Residence Life Office tries to pair students up by focusing on their living styles, which includes how
much care each person devotes to their space.

Decorating rivalry isn’t the only dorm dilemma that Davidson students have to contend with. The occupants of Base Richardson are
reputed to be some of the most “mentally stable” students on campus, due to their ability to contend with some
of the meanest living conditions. When asked about the worst aspects of life on Base Rich, resident Charles Horwitz ’08
replied, “The small windows, lack of light, the smell we get when it rains a lot, and the fact that
few people ever venture down here because it is so dank.” However, Horwitz stresses the fact that “Not once have
I ever heard any of the guys complain about our hall, because what doesn’t kill you makes you stronger, right?”

The sophomore apartments are also reputed to be lacking in visual appeal, but are known to provide residents with greater
feelings of independence. Roommates Megan Qualey ’07 and Margaret Brooks ’07 enjoy living “down the hill,” which allows them to
be closer to their classmates and eating houses. “There is no storage, no sink, and really low ceilings,” acknowledges Brooks,
“but we love living down here.” When asked if she considered these factors a detriment to her living experience, Brooks
emphasized that “the rooms don’t really matter, it’s the people who make it fun.” Most Davidson students seem to agree.

However, many also take advantage of the privacy that a dorm affords amid the communal chaos of college. “I know
that most people need a sense of being grounded that is afforded in part by having one’s own space,” states
Dr. Staton. Though Davidson students treat this space in so many different ways, this concept appears to ring true for
most.

Katie Hunter Waites and Zipperstein pose in their bowl chair.
