THE DAVIDSONIAN

TODAY'S NEWS

Androgyny on up
With falling dollar, spaces in Econ 101 rise in price
SEE PAGE 6

Football player beats the crap out of Cat Pack member
SEE PAGE 8

Union piano player will not take hint
SEE PAGE 12

Instant Message ring heard down hall
SEE PAGE 13

UBI ORTA UBERTAS

WEDNESDAY, December 8, 2004

9 patina: ER DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

The Yowl: Lovin’ it since last January

December 8, 2004

GRETA, ROE SE! TAR OT

The Davidsonian

Practical jokes increase on campus

A string of practical jokes has spread across campus in recent weeks. No one is quite sure who started it, and their end is not in sight. Campus safety also seems to be impotent in preventing them or apprehending students who have committed them. Said Campus Safety officer Jim O'Brian, “The spontaneous and covert nature [of a practical joke] makes it very difficult for us to predict or respond to quickly.”

The first practical joke incident was reported to O’Brian two weeks ago. A student living in the Belk dormitory phoned into Public Safety complaining that a rat was in her room. Officer O’Brian quickly responded to the call and found that the rat in question was sitting on the student’s laptop computer. The student reported that it had been sitting there for the last 30 minutes when she had returned from Field Hockey practice. Shortly thereafter, the officer discovered that the rat was actually made out of rubber and had been placed there as a “practical joke” to potentially scare or arouse some other emotion in the victim.

After that initial report, the practical jokes seemed to appear at an exponential rate. That same week, Public Safety had reports of several dozen more practical jokes. The practical jokes ranged from lighthearted pranks, such as one student who walked around Patterson Court “photographing” students with a fake camera that actually squirted water in the eyes of those whom he was “photographing,” to more serious vandalism, such as someone spray-painting large mustaches on the Chambermaids.

Jerry Skinner ‘07 recalled a practical joke that one of his fellow hallmates, David Harrison, played on him. “I got an email saying I had to report before the Honor Council because someone had observed me copying a paper from the Internet,” said Skinner. “I was very confused because I had turned that paper in a month ago. But I went to the hearing anyways. When I arrived none of the lights were on in the room. At first I thought I was in the wrong room, but then suddenly the lights flashed on and streamers and confetti were flying everywhere. David got me so good, there wasn't really a hearing at all!”

The practical jokes have spread

Sensitivity considerations lead to “Red Bikes” name change to “Community Bikes”

Davidson Outdoors has announced that due to the changing political climate around campus, the “Red Bikes” have officially been renamed “Community Bikes.” The official announcement came last Friday afternoon when head of Davidson Outdoors, Bill Crooms, sent an e-mail to all faculty and students. The e-mail stated: “Due to popular outcry and a change in the philosophical direction of the Community Bicycle program, we have officially changed the name of the program from ‘Red Bikes’ to ‘Community Bikes.’”

This change has come at a particularly crucial time in the Community Bike program. Davidson Outdoors purchased many new bikes in the last two years, most of which were yellow and not the traditional red color. Some students think this is the reason for the name change. “The reason they’re called ‘Community Bikes’ now, instead of ‘Red Bikes,’” David Martin ’07 said, “is that they aren’t all red bikes anymore.”

Other students, however, contend that the reasons for the change are far more political. Erin Jones ’05 believes that the name change came due to pressure from certain politically active students. “There has been pressure on Davidson Outdoors to change the name ‘Red Bike’ since they first began the program,” Jones said. “Some students feel the name is degrading and completely not politically correct.”

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Humor Section

HEAD OF ALUMNI RELATIONS: Bobby Kenner
SENIOR STAFF WRITER: Jeff Yeakel
Editor: Brendan Parets

Students with story suggestions or interested in writing should contact the editor at brparets@davidson.edu

Note: If you haven't been living in a cave for the past six months, then you should know that the Yowl is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

Many of the formerly red community bikes have been replaced by yellow bikes such as this one.The fact that they started getting bikes of other colors and changed the name does not surprise me.” The push for more politically correct names around campus is one that is not new to Davidson College. For example, First-Year Students were once known as “Freshmen” until the Dean of Students office officially had the name changed in order to avoid discrimination. Along the same lines, the competition among First-Years during Orientation was officially renamed this year from the “Freshmen Olympics” to “Baker Night,” in order to avoid offending the ancient Greeks. Finally, the Committee on Minority Affairs (COMA) was renamed in October to the Diversity Coordination Council (DCC) because many students and faculty felt that the name COMA was offensive not only to coma victims but also to minorities.

More instances of renaming seem to be in store for the future. The Satellite Parking lot is currently under debate as to whether to change its name to Auxiliary Parking or not. The worry is that the word “Satellite” may be infringing upon NASA’s rights and may give the parking lot unwanted connotations. In addition, if popular support brings the Outpost back, its name may have to be changed so that students from rural backgrounds would not have their heritage improperly referenced.

Some students refuse to acknowledge the change in name of the Community Bikes, though. Robert Gilmore ’06 stated, “I'll never call them ‘Community Bikes.’ To me, they'll always be ‘Red Bikes.’ This is just some more of the PC crap that they force down your throat all the time nowadays. Some official name change can’t change what’s in my heart.” Heather Smith ’05 compared the name change to that of the West/Tomlinson building. “Some students still refuse to call West by its new name, Tomlinson. For a lot of people it’s not because they’re against the principles behind the name change, but rather, they are just so used to calling it by its old name it’s too difficult to change.”

Also popular is the “Davidson Bloopers” video, featuring hilarious mistakes filmed on the Davidson campus. According to sources, a baseball player fell victim to a practical joke at a party last Friday night. The student, who was reported to be mildly intoxicated, danced at length with a female in the Phi Delta Theta fraternity house. He then took her back to his dorm room where he was startled to learn that the “girl” was actually a football player, and fellow fraternity member, who had dressed in women’s clothing in order to trick the student.

Even the faculty has been getting in on the practical jokes. Jack Stevenson ’06 said that his Econ 101 professor told them in class on a Wednesday that their review scheduled for Friday would be a take-home test instead that was due Monday. “When we got to class on Friday, though,” Stevenson said, “the professor was holding a stack of papers in his hands and had this odd grin on his face. He said, ‘Got you!’ and then passed out the tests. I couldn’t believe that we'd been tricked by a professor!”

Not all the practical jokes have been successful, though. One anonymous student claimed to have attempted a practical joke in the Vail Commons last week. “I had one of those stink-bombs in the little glass vials,” the student said. “I pretended to be perusing the cuisine on the chef's table and then smashed it down over by the entree line. I went and hid behind the crates full of glasses and watched for everyone’s reaction. Unfortunately they were serving Durango Beef and Cheddar that day, so no one noticed the smell.”

So far, only one student has been apprehended for a practical joke. The student, who will remain nameless, was caught placing banana peels and fake dog poo on the steps of Chambers. It was later discovered that he had taken the bananas from Vail Commons. Despite this, and perhaps due to the increased tensions of the approaching final exam period, practical joke incidents are still on the rise and don’t seem to be slowing up.

In/Out
Out: Fiji
In: CoHo
Out: Quoting Napoleon Dynamite
In: Quoting Old School
Out: Campus Outreach
In: Westminster Fellowship
Out: Yuengling
In: Milwaukee’s Best
Out: Political Science
In: Sociology
Out: Audi A4
In: Ford Explorer
Out: Wildcat Den
In: Commons
Out: Ryburn
In: Flowe
Out: Brown Eyed Girl
In: Sweet Home Alabama
Out: Field Hockey Team
In: Lacrosse Team
Out: First floor Union bathrooms
In: Third floor Union bathrooms
Out: Woodrow typos
In: Libertas lack of logic
Out: Belk Scholars
In: Bonner Scholars