THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2004 3

Students create new publication ‘Woodrow’ to serve as outlet for creative nonfiction and short fiction.

By Kate GILLESPIE
Staff Writer

Davidson students Ward Long ’06, Wilson McBee ’06, David Saint ’05, Alice Neumann ’06, Clark Candler ’07, Andy Heston ’05, Matt Hassett ’08, Martin Zahra ’06 are in the process of producing “Woodrow,” a new campus publication. Named after former U.S. President Woodrow Wilson, who studied at Davidson in 1873, the magazine will be published on a quarterly basis and will primarily contain creative nonfiction and short fiction.

The magazine grew out of ideas raised in conversations between the cofounders and other Davidson students last spring, as well as a weekly writing workshop that Saint sponsored on fiction and poetry. Long, McBee, and Saint realized there was no campus outlet for longer journalism and fiction and decided to start their own. “None of those art forms have space in other publications,” Long said. “Our aim is to be accessible on campus. We brainstorm with writers and have several edits. We try to value each writer.”

Although Woodrow has no set staff writers, 19 people contributed art and writing for its first issue. Director of Media Relations Bill Giduz contributed a piece on juggling; other highlights of the first issue include a spotlight on MECCA, a Middle-Eastern students’ organization, and an interview with Director of Public Safety & Police Fountain Walker. The overall content mix includes creative long nonfiction, interviews, fiction, poetry, and a section devoted to student organizations. “The focus is Davidson-centric,” Long said. “We promote what’s already happening here and expose the really incredible stuff going on on campus.”

Woodrow’s extensive and personal editing process differentiates it from other publications, which operate on tighter deadlines. “It’s designed so that the goal is not only a better article, but also better and more sensitive writers,” said Andy Heston ’05, who wrote an article on Patterson Court service requirements for Woodrow’s first issue. “For all the emphasis on Davidson being a school that can really develop your writing skills, I think a lot of people compartmentalize their writing too much: the idea of writing for something other than a grade is foreign to a lot of people.”

English professor Cynthia Lewis is Woodrow’s faculty advisor and expects to help the editors by giving advice about editing nonfiction, documenting pieces, and fostering relationships with writers. “I’m so excited about this project because The Davidsonian and Libertas are instruments of journalism, but we don’t really have a place on campus where creative nonfiction can go,” Lewis said. “They [Woodrow’s editors] see it more as a writer’s workshop, a sort of literary clearinghouse, where folks can place work that has been shared already with writers on campus and revised because of that sharing.”

To become a student organization and campus publication, Woodrow had to be approved by the Media Board and SGA. Its budget also had to be approved by the Media Board, the ATC, and SGA. The group of students has been working on the first issue of Woodrow for eight weeks and expect it to be 16 pages long. Circulation will initially be 700 copies, and the magazine will be distributed free of charge on campus.

“Woodrow apparently mimics the New Yorker in its confrontational yet informative style,” said Kristin Apple ’08, who submitted artwork to the magazine. “It allows for multiple perspectives and refuses to conform to the norms. It questions. And it isn’t overbearing, for it intends to probe with a sense of curiosity rather than resentment.”

Long’s vision for “Woodrow” reflects his desire for the magazine to spur student discussion and debate on campus. “The best description of it is taking dinnertime conversations that we already have and printing them,” Long said. “Our ultimate goal is to get people talking about the issues we raise.”

Students who are interested in writing for future issues of Woodrow can email walong or dasaint or attend a campus-wide meeting to be held after the publication of the first issue.

Plans for upcoming year discussed at Fall Retreat

By LYPIR WHITE
Staff Writer

Thursday’s SGA meeting discussed SGA Day, notes from the SGA retreat, and early plans for Class Forums. Also, the establishment of the Diversity Coordinating Committee at Davidson was an issue brought forth at the meeting.

SGA held their annual Fall retreat this past Oct. 3 at Irwin Lodge. The goals from the retreat are to expand technology services for students, such as getting printers in the union; re-evaluate Freshman Orientation, or Davidson 101; to expand Vamanos Van services to daytime; to look at meal plan issues; to utilize Cat-TV to increase communication with students; and to host class forums so that students can have better outlets for offering their input.

Freshman Senator Chris Catanese commented on the retreat. “We discussed our priorities, the strengths and weaknesses of SGA as an organization that has an impact on campus, how to overcome those weaknesses, and outlined a set of goals for the year.” said Catanese. He believes that the goals were ambitious but attainable.”

SGA also discussed plans for SGA Day on October 20. “SGA Day is a day once a semester in which we invite all members of the student body to grab a burger, learn about SGA, and"Have the opportunity to sign up for SGA committees," said SGA President Katharine Hubbard. The event will be Wednesday, October 20, from 11:30 to 12:30 at the Amphitheatre. Also, SGA discussed upcoming plans for class forums in November. These forums would be an open opportunity for members of each class to give feedback to SGA at a specified date for their class. Finally, SGA enacted a new SGA committee, the Diversity Coordinating Committee (DCC). DCC will replace the previous committee entitled, Committee of Minority Affairs or COMA. COMA became null and void with the introduction of the constitution of the DCC. "We are trying to become a support system rather than another organization. We hope to fill in the gaps or bridge the Davidson community," said committee chair Hanako Kawabata. The committee also wishes to give diversity concerns a voice across all campus groups. Kawabata spoke also of her realization about how far Davidson has come already and Davidson’s increasing progress in treating diversity. She looks forward to even further progress with these issues. By becoming a support net for all campus organizations, diversity concerns can be more effectively handled, and groups can work harmoniously toward solving any diversity issues.

Staley lecturer Cardenal discusses experiences in Latin America
By JACKIE McKEOWN - Staff Writer

Father Fernando Cardenal, a Nicaraguan Jesuit priest, delivered the 2004 Staley Lecture series on Sunday, October 17, and Monday, October 18, in the 900 Room. Father Cardenal spoke in Spanish and Tracy King, a five-year Nicaraguan resident, translated. Father Cardenal was chosen by the Staley Lecture Committee, composed of students and faculty, because of Davidson students' positive interactions with Father Cardenal on the Spring Break Trip to Nicaragua. "Students who heard Father Cardenal speak felt deeply moved, both by his message and his life," said Reverend Rob Spach, head of the Staley Lecture Series Committee and College Chaplain.

"Walking Toward the Kingdom of God: A Journey with Jesus" served as the theme for Father Cardenal’s lecture on Sunday. Father Cardenal discussed Jesus’s life and his tremendous dedication to the poor. "Jesus found himself with serious problems in society," said Father Cardenal, "not problems between the rich and poor like in my country, but an inhumane religion." Father Cardenal talked about how Jesus confronted the high priests and disobeyed their inhumane and oppressive laws on behalf of the poor. He concluded the lecture with a few reflections about the Christian life, and the necessity of taking action against injustices just as Jesus did. Reverend Spach found two main messages in Father Cardenal’s first lecture; first, "Jesus’s incredible concern for the poor and marginalized. Second, how Jesus stood up to those who had political, economic, and religious power."

Some students disagreed with Cardenal. "It sounded like people needed to live up to some standard of performance to be right with God. Frankly, I was slightly offended by the talk. I felt like he portrayed Jesus as God’s Son who came to earth solely on a mission to rescue those who were outcast from society, and by doing this set an example for us," said Bill Moore ’07.

"Walking Toward the Kingdom of God: Politics and the Poor" was the theme for Father Cardenal’s second lecture. He spoke about his role as a Jesuit priest and liberation theologian. During his training as a priest, Father Cardenal studied in Colombia for nine months. The extreme level of poverty, unemployment, hunger, and death that he saw there inspired Cardenal to dedicate his life to the liberation of the poor. "Everything I did after was inspired by my experience in Colombia," said Father Cardenal.

Father Cardenal joined the Sandinistas, a revolutionary group, in 1979. As part of the Sandinistas, he implemented a literacy campaign backed by 60,000 youth volunteers in 1980, and in less than six months around 400,000 adults learned to read and write. Due to his involvement with the Sandinistas, in 1984 the Vatican expelled him from the Jesuit order. The Sandinistas lost power in 1990 and peaceably handed over the government, but not before a great deal of money grabbing occurred. Father Cardenal did not agree with the corruption he saw and left the revolution in 1995. Shortly after, the Vatican reinstated Father Cardenal into the Jesuit order.

Today, Father Cardenal continues to serve the poor, primarily through education and his work with "Faith, Hope, and Love," a literacy campaign based in Nicaragua. Father Cardenal ended his lecture by speaking about his strong faith in young people and their ability to do good. He complimented Davidson students for their integrity and urged them to become involved in a cause that matters to them. "Dream of doing really important things with your lives," said Father Cardenal.

The Staley Lecture Series is endowed by the 1924 Davidson graduate, Thomas F. Staley. The purpose of the Staley Lecture Series is to provide students with the opportunity to hear distinguished Christian speakers.

VEGGIE MELT
VEGGIE BURGER
VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP
VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES
CAESAR SALAD
GRILLED CHEESE
VEGETABLE SOUP
Plus: FRESH LEMONADE, ORANGEADE, and more

If you didn't think of us for vegetarian fare!
MAIN ST. Davidson, NC
Eat-in Take-out
896-7743
Sat-Thur 8-8
Fri 8-9