THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES

Working-classes hurt most by amnesty
BY RICARDO AMPUJIA
Staff Columnist

When asked to comment on Bush’s new immigration policy in a recent debate among the Democratic presidential candidates, Al Sharpton
commented that his ancestors were brought from Africa as slaves as a result of “bad trade policy.” Nowadays, he added,
we have immigrants from Latin America who are coming to work in this country under slave wages as a result
of an essentially similar situation.

Before I continue, I should make it clear that the present article is far from serving as propaganda for the
Democratic Party. In fact, I believe that the “capitalism-lite” policies of most Democrats are a legitimate waste of time. Plus,
most of their offers lack substance; for instance, presidential candidate John Kerry is careful enough when he says that he
promises equal access to healthcare to all Americans as one of the greatest novelties in the past fifty years. Despite
what the media would like to say, it seems like the difference between Democrats and Republicans is practically non-existent. The
two parties disagree on catchy but marginal issues like abortion and the death penalty while they rarely implement divergent policies
when it comes to central issues like trade, privatization, and campaign finance.

Putting that issue aside, let us try to make sense of Sharpton’s comment. Consider that 80 percent of the US
economy consists of services, two percent consists of agriculture, and the rest consists of industry. Consider further that most of
the several millions of jobs that have been lost over the past few years belonged to services and industry. It
is likely that it will be more difficult for the private sector to reinsert those employees that were laid off
into lower-paying sectors of the economy without the help of that sweet mass of illegal immigrants that came from Latin
America.

In effect, to grant millions of undocumented immigrants legal status is to increase the supply of labor and thus to
increase unemployment. From a business perspective, I have to admit that this is a quite bright electoral move by Bush:
in a crucial time for fundraising, he has shown CEOs that he is willing to do business. Plus, he gets
a few reserved compliments from more ‘liberal’ news outlets (and not to mention minority interest groups) when elections are around
the corner because, after all, the very few lucky immigrants who will find jobs will be better off.

From an American working-class perspective, however, this move is not so welcome. See, labor unions, like that of retail workers
in California, now have one more thing to worry about: if they go on strike—which they recently did—they can now
become easily replaced—which they recently were—by picking out a few immigrants from what is now one of the largest unemployment
pools in the nation. You might argue that literally everyone benefits from taking the immigrants out of the “shadows” and
putting them back on track towards the American dream. But I doubt that many would be willing to do so
at the expense of his or her own job. The Democrats, as another business-implanted group, are not likely to change
this, but for the sake of votes, they will do what they can to criticize it while the ball is
out of their court.

Contrived accusations won’t hurt Bush

So now President Bush’s military credentials are being questioned. Did he shirk National Guard duty? Did Bush’s family connections keep
him from going to Vietnam? What about Democratic frontrunner John Kerry? Did he use botox? Was he giving speeches a
few years ago decrying the use of military credentials in a presidential race only to now talk about his Vietnam
service every single time he is on television? Was his noggin as large as it is now before Vietnam, or
was it the result of Viet Cong torture? I really don’t care, do you?

Even the most ridiculous charges have been cloaked in a veil of urgency. According to Bush’s former Treasury Secretary, Bush
was planning for regime change in Iraq as soon as he was elected. Somehow, according to the media, these meetings
over Iraq’s future prove that the war in Iraq was all a set up by the neo-conservative conspiracy that secretly
rules the White House. Personally, I was shocked. I couldn’t believe that Bush had the nerve to continue the stated
policy of President Clinton: regime change in Iraq.

These ludicrous, worthless, but often entertaining “Daily Show”-esque headlines will soon fade away into obscurity. No one really cares about
these stories, except for comedians and the same ignorant people who buy tabloids and don’t vote in November anyways. As
the effects of the recovering economy are felt throughout America over the next 10 months, the Democratic candidate—whether it’s Kerry
or the bitter little man Kucinich—will have very few issues he can manipulate to his advantage.

Rant from the right
MIKE GALDO

Bush talks like a southerner, was raised by rich Yankees, spends like a Democrat, and has a foreign policy vision
similar to a Republican. That combination is pretty much unbeatable. The “he is a retard” argument used in 2000 no
longer sticks to Bush. Either he is much more politically savvy than the Democrats gave him credit for, or he
is smart enough to surround himself with the right people. Since the beginning of the War on Terror, everyone knows
that under his guidance the United States won’t fall apart. America may head in a direction that goes against your
own particular worldview, but that is a different matter.

Personally, I would rather have someone with different spending priorities in the White House for the next four years. However,
Bush’s advisors allow me to sleep a little bit better at night. Powell, Rice, Cheney, etc. all realize that the
United States still has enemies. Global politics is not about hugging your neighbor, but about making sure your neighbor doesn’t
stab you in the back. Most historians agree that foreign relations rarely determine a presidential election. However, in post-9/11 America,
foreign relations and the ability of every American to sleep soundly at night (aka Homeland Security) have meshed into one
issue. John “The Bobble-Head Doll” Kerry just doesn’t give me that same sense of security—and I have a feeling that
a majority of the American people are with me on this one.For the Democrats to keep lobbing random shots at
Bush and at each other while they scramble to find an “electable” candidate. Look for the Republicans to stop laughing
at their antics and start firing back. Oh, and watch Dennis Miller’s new show on CNBC—he’s not quite as funny
as Jon Stewart, but he uses enough GRE-prep vocabulary words to make it worth your time.

Diversity of ideas also important

Last week’s Davidsonian staff editorial got it right in asserting that “[t]he recruitment of minority faculty has been among Davidson’s
greatest weaknesses in achieving true diversity throughout the school.” However, the editorial failed to adequately address—indeed, ignored—what can be argued
to be the most important form of diversity that our campus seems to lack: a diversity in ideas.

Much attention has been paid in recent months to the argument that minority students (particularly racial minorities) are hesitant or
hostile toward the idea of attending an institution of higher learning at which they will be taught by instructors with
whom they do not share racial, ideological, religious, or other commonalities. However, a liberal arts education is supposed to both
challenge students’ minds and inspire them to excel. Indeed, the educational mission of the college is “to teach all students
to think clearly, to make relevant and valid judgments, to discriminate among values, and to communicate freely with others in
the realm of ideas.” Davidson is failing in this mission.

Some students here—particularly, it can be argued, political and religious minorities—are strongly challenged in the classroom to the point that
they are often ridiculed by members of the faculty. Other—indeed, most—students on this campus, however, do not have their ideas
challenged; they have them reinforced. For example, how is Davidson going to challenge students of more liberal political beliefs by
having a Political Science department that has not a single Republican, and arguably only a couple of conservative members? Unless
and until Davidson makes an honest effort to open all students’ minds, it will continue to fail in its mission.

Joseph B. Adams ‘06

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004

Depot-Day; February 7, 2004

It began when a man fell off a bike, just off Delburg Street. The police saw him and he was
carrying a fifth of Popov. He pointed, when they asked, at the Depot Apartments. Officer Campbell didn’t have to think,
he’s a well-trained officer of the law. “We’ve got a code niner niner,” he said to his shoulder radio in
the pale moonlight. His features were fixed, stern, as he allowed himself to draw a deep breath. He’d been on
the force now for eighteen months. This was it.

Back into the cruiser, he fired the ignition. The Crown Vic roared in anticipation of the operation just ahead. They
were all there at the mobile command HQ in the parking lot. The energy was thick like last night’s fog;
courage, determination, and pride shone in their eyes. “I wouldn’t go to war with anybody else,” thought Campbell. Then one
of Fountain’s boys showed up. “I hope you’re aware of jurisdiction here,” said Sarge through a cigar clenched in his
mouth. “Don’t worry boys, this is your show. We’re just here to help if we can. This is bigger than
all of us.”

NICHOLAS CARLSON

The energy was thick like last night's fog; courage, determination, and pride shone in their eyes. “Good to see we
can all rally around the law,” thought Campbell as he felt a warm flush of humanity. Just then they heard
the throaty growl of Hartman’s Harley. “Glad to see ya Hartman, we’re gonna need your special brand of justice tonight.”
Then they planned. Sarge growled out the orders: “Let’s hit ’em square in the mouth. You, you, and you. Swing
around back and cut off their escape. You, you, and you. Man the radio, we may need the chopper and
reinforcements. Hartman, Campbell, and myself—we’ll take ’em at the front door.

“Campbell, this is your bust, so I want you to bang on the door as hard and loud as you
can. I hope you’re ready for this.” Ready? Could he remember a time when he wasn’t? His chest swelled. He
gave Sarge a long meaningful look, “I’ve waited my whole life for this, boss.” “I know you have, son.” He
grasped his shoulder tightly, released, and gave him a hard slap on the back. Sarge turned back to his troops.
“Ready yourselves men. We few, we happy few, we band of brothers; for he today that sheds his blood with
me will be my brother. All the guys not here will curse the day and hold their manhoods cheap whiles
any speaks that fought with us against these raucous disturbances of the peace at the Depot Apartments.” If their eyes
shone before, they now glistened with a pride of so just a cause. Sarge unfastened his holster, turned to them
once more and said with a ferocious whisper: “Let’s roll.”

Liberty lacking

The Davidson College motto enshrines liberty as a prerequisite for an atmosphere of learning. Indeed, I believe that our vibrant
and free exchange of ideas is one of the most socially and intellectually stimulating aspects of our college. But unfortunately,
some of us have apparently rejected this notion of liberty and decided that students are not free to express certain
political ideas.

Last week I designed and helped to distribute throughout dorms up the hill some posters advertising a meeting for the
College Republicans. Just a few hours after we had finished, I noticed that someone had torn down many of the
posters in my dorm, Sentelle. The next day I learned that nearly all of the posters throughout campus had been
torn down. I don’t think there was anything offensive about these posters, but I apologize if anyone was insulted by
our attempts at humor. However, disagreement with a poster does not warrant its removal. It is impossible to have a
real public discourse when some ideas are suppressed. With the overwhelming majority of professors and a slight majority of students
in agreement with their political beliefs, one would think that liberals at Davidson would feel more secure. But a few
of them feel so threatened by some conservative posters that they refuse to even allow others to see them. What
are these people so afraid of?

What I think

MATT BANDY
