DAVIDSON COLLEGE  
The DB @ "THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY" @ WEDNESDAY, April 21, 2004  
First Class U.S. Postage Paid  
Permit #1 Davidson, NC  
VOLUME 95, NUMBER 23  

DANCING IN THE MOONLIGHT  
Nearly 135 performers made up this year’s Dance Ensemble. The Ensemble’s spring programs last Friday and Saturday sold out both nights.

Board grants ten faculty tenure  
Trustees voice ‘unanimous and enthusiastic support’ for candidates  
By Blevin Shelnutt  
Senior Staff Writer  

The Davidson College Board of Trustees met for one of its three annual meetings this past Thursday and Friday on campus. The primary action of the Trustee meeting was to review continuous tenure for ten candidates. Vagt said, “There was unanimous and enthusiastic support for all ten candidates to receive tenure.” The candidates are Dan Aldridge of the history department; Karen Bernd, Michael Dorcas, and David Wessner of the biology department; Tim Gfroerer and John Yukich of the physics department; Vivien Shen of the Chinese department; Mark Smith of the psychology department; Erland Stevens of the chemistry department; and Greg Snyder of the religion department.

During the committee reports session of the meeting, Board chair John McCartney discussed progress made concerning the current revision of the Christian requirement to be a trustee member. McCartney reported that the action of the executive committee had directed him to set up an ad hoc committee to review suggestions that came out of the winter retreat, which see Trustees, page 3

Holland honored at poetry reading  
By Christie Kirby  
Staff Writer  

Last Thursday, the College hosted a reading by alumni Charles Wright, graduate of 1957 and now Pulitzer Prize-winning poet. Wright presented this year’s Vereen Bell Awards to students Emily Drew ’04, Tim Westover ’04, and Jessica Broaddus ’06 for their exceptional work in creative writing. Wright’s visit came together under the planning of Dr. Alan Michael Parker, Associate Professor of English, in honor of one of the Davidson English department’s distinguished and now retiring professors: Gill Holland. A poet himself, Holland describes the acclaimed poetry of his colleague Wright as a blend of Italian and Tang dynasty Chinese poetry. Wright’s poetry collection “Black Zodiac” won the Pulitzer Prize in 1998, among other international honors. Few students know Dr. Holland as the man who learned to cuss from John McCain or whose favorite wrestling hold is the “Navy Ride.” Most see him on the first floor of E.H. Little Library, where he spends his office hours sharing his love of literature. Holland has taught at Davidson for 39 years, leading courses in compo- see Holland, page 3

AIC proposes budgets  
By Adam Martin  
Senior Staff Writer  

SGA will meet tonight to approve or disapprove, as a whole, the proposed 2004-2005 budgets for every chartered student organization at Davidson College. While the SGA must approve the budgets, its advisory body, the Activities Tax Council (ATC), is the primary arbiter of student organization wealth at the College. The Director of College Union and Coordinator of Student Activities William Brown automatically sits on the ten-member council. “It’s very difficult for SGA to examine each budget carefully. You need a small group that is not terribly public,” he said. “We try to determine“What’s the best use of students’ money,” said ATC Chair Elizabeth Matthews ’04. “We ask how do this organization’s activities serve the school and student interests, how do they align with the stated purpose of the group, and has the group done what it said it would do with last year’s money?” The ATC recommendation for next year promises $406,550 for various student activities, as described in the annual budgets of SGA-chartered student organizations. 51 percent of those funds, $207,457, will go to the Union Board to fund activities such as (licensing for) Movies at Midnight, Trivia, After Midnight Breakfasts, speakers, etc., and also to pay for a portion of the main concert each semester. The organization budgets are financed directly by the Student Activities Tax that every enrolled student must pay each semester. The ATC also recommends the Activities Fee amount to SGA every year. The recommended amount is on the order of $125 per student.

College Republicans vs. Young Democrats ~ If the ATC proposal passes as recommended, the College Republicans will receive more than 2.5 times as much money as the Young Democrats. Last year the ATC decided to give both organizations equal amounts, despite very disparate requests, so as not to appear politically biased. They gave both groups $625, the amount that was requested by the

see ATC, page 5

A room of their own
RLO allows art project to remain in Little
By LESLIE HEMPSON
Senior Staff Writer

For a Basic Studio art project last semester, Emily Rodda ’06 and Richardson LaBruce ’06 painted every single word of Virginia Woolf’s classic essay “A Room of One’s Own” on the walls and ceiling of a first Little spare room. Those words were supposed to be painted over at the end of this semester as part of an agreement between RLO and the students, but Leslie Urban, Associate Director of Residence Life, said Monday that her department would leave the artwork intact. Since Rodda was away from campus this spring studying in Spain, her first semester roommate, Nicole Mader ’06, made it her mission to preserve the artwork.

The project started in fall 2003 when Ray Kleinlein, Visiting Assistant Professor of Art and instructor of the Basic Studio class, directed his students to create a piece of conceptual art. Rodda and LaBruce knew that they “were going to have to do something over the top” to get the final grade they wanted and on a whim, proposed copying a “short essay” onto the walls of the room. That “short essay” of seven pages soon turned into a long essay of 207 pages. Richardson read the essay out loud, while Rodda, paint pen in hand, wrote the words for as long as 90 minutes at a time. After approximately 80 hours of hard work, Rodda and LaBruce were done. They finished just in time: the project was due at 10 a.m., and Rodda painted the last word at 8:30 a.m. that morning.

Rodda wrote by e-mail, “I think we were both secretly proud of our

see Little, page 3

SEE PAGES 6 & 7
NEWS, PAGE 2
Freddy Adu... the greatest soccer talent since Pele?
SPORTS, PAGE 12
Get your frolic on this weekend
PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 11