THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2004 11

Rather is a problem, but so is all TV News
By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Staff Columnist

The award for most neglected news story in the past month goes, without doubt, to the resignation of Dan Rather as anchor and manager for CBS News. Top headlines include all manner of disapproval, dissent, and disses against President Bush. Bush has four more years in office, while Rather will step down in March. Would it not make sense to focus more on the news anchor before his time has passed? Granted, Bush had four years to make mistakes and reveal his incompetences. But Rather had twenty-four years to do so. Should the media not examine his agendas, as well?

The reason that everyone wants to assign to the rather sudden resignation (pardon the pun) is the also-neglected scandal about CBS’s September 8 report on Bush’s National Guard service. Rather pushed the story without a full check on the authenticity of the source, and now it seems he is paying the price for careless journalism. Many, myself among them, consider Rather’s decision to come out with the story and claim authenticity to be less a poor judgment and more an example of a problem with Rather, CBS, and much of the media in general. The problem is bias. And this bias hardly stops with the twenty-four-year veteran of CBS News; the New York Times (purportedly America’s newspaper but actually affiliated with CBS), ABC, and in the last decade CNN have all come under the same suspicion of liberal bias. While I would hesitate to call it a vast left-wing conspiracy, I cannot help but notice liberal trends across the board.

Rather was somewhat infamous for being far more aggressive in interviews with conservatives and Republicans than he would otherwise be. One has but to glance at the headlines of the Times’ op-ed pages to realize that most of their writers have Christmas donkeys on top of their houses. CNN’s coverage of the 2004 election was, in my opinion, atrocious because of the jilted way in which they reported states’ counts—that is, they counted Minnesota for Kerry with barely half of the precincts reporting, but would not call Ohio for Bush with 98%. Liberal bias is a very real danger in the news we get today. This is not to say that there is no conservative bias. FOX is downright mean to any interviewee who happens to be a Democrat. Perhaps we should all take Rather’s mistake as a warning to the rest of us that all news is to be taken with a grain of salt, and that the producers of nightly news shows are probably registered party members.

Is the Christmas season just a yearly joke?
By Hailey AELION
Staff Columnist

So it’s Christmas. We’ve got Jack Frost nipping at our nose and we’ve got Santa Claus coming down our chimney; Frosty the Snowman is thump-thump-thumping down the sidewalk and Alvin and the Chipmunks are singing to us as we shop. I can’t decide whether all these facts point to the overall conclusion that Christmas is truly all around us, or that America has finally and completely lost sight of the true meaning of Christmas. What does it say about our culture when a fictional red-nosed, pot-bellied elf is as synonymous with the word Christmas as the mother of Jesus Christ?

Taking the secularization of Christmas to an even more extreme level, what does it say about our culture when we look at the use of the holidays to promote commercial profits in a favorable light? Take a step into a store between early October and December 24, and I challenge you to avoid signs of the holidays selling everything from vests to vacuum cleaners. Step into any store and you’ll hear traditional Christmas carols being played in the hopes of promoting the sales of stuffed snowmen and light-up reindeer dolls. Santa Claus is on every street corner promoting sales, or else can be found with his elves in almost every major American mall, listening to young kids list their most urgent desires... which can be conveniently purchased by their parents at neighboring stores. America’s culture is based around consumerism, so maybe this blatant manipulation of music, myth, and religious history for commercial gain should not be surprising. What is surprising is the acceptance and appreciation this manipulation evokes in American consumers.

In the first place, we have completely accepted and embraced the presence of secular holiday characters during the Christmas season. Who does not love Santa Claus, a character who owes his existence primarily to profit-seeking companies such as Coca-Cola? In the second place, beyond welcoming Santa Claus into our collective consciousness, we have even happily allowed him to lead Christmas into the commercial world, where he (along with such characters as Frosty and Rudolph and our old friend the Grinch) successfully sells all types of holiday goodies. What kid can say no to a toy personally approved by old Kris Kringle himself? If Santa Claus does not put you in enough of a holiday mood, just close your eyes. The holiday music that is sure to be playing has been statistically proven to improve shoppers’ spirits, keep them in stores longer, and prompt bigger holiday purchases.

Christmas may not be what is all around us, but there is definitely some sort of larger power in existence during the month of December; even if it’s not promoting the traditional values of the holiday season (giving, sharing, celebrating) it is definitely succeeding at promoting the contemporary values of American culture (receiving, spending, and possessing). But who knows? Maybe this combination of what is Christmas and what is commercial is actually a valid tribute to the power of the holiday spirit. Maybe Santa Claus really can be appreciated as a symbol of the joy of giving at Christmastime and maybe the songs...in stores really do help us remember what we have to look forward to at this time of year: family reunions, big meals, warm fires, peace, and renewal. So enjoy the holidays, whichever you celebrate, and best of luck in the New Year!

Political Polarization
By Jon Huacins
Guest Columnist

Let me start by saying I am in no way locked into the confining political boxes named the Republican and Democratic Parties. While I hold conservative views on most issues, I tend to be more socially liberal. My personal response to the conditional statement posed in the title of the article appearing in this space last issue is, no, although I did vote for Bush (stop cringing, I can see you), it was not on the basis of social issues. I feel that the war in which we are presently engaged as well as national security are far more pressing issues. Furthermore, I believe that if America is destined for social change, there’s nothing Bush, or any other politician, can do to stop it.

Now to the article. What concerned me most while reading this piece was that it painted issues in black and white that really deserve to be colored gray. The author states in the introductory paragraph that “America’s decision in 2004 is a clear sign of this country’s citizens are not only confused about what constitutes a good leader, but also that the morals we value are outdated and embarrassingly backwards.” The author later cites abortion and gay rights as the “hot” moral issues. Clearly, the steaming debate on these issues is evidence of their complex moral implications. They are not black and white.

The author accuses people who do not fully support gay rights of “not valu[ing] the equality and personal liberties guaranteed to all citizens in this so-called land of the free.” While I do not necessarily agree with some of the policies instituted against gays, I do not feel that those who support them are morally perverted in any way. This point holds even more strongly in discussing abortion. Although I am pro-choice, it’s hard to say that either side is more morally justified in its opinion.

This brings me to a commentary on moral absolutism. I am in no way a moral relativist, but I do see a problem with someone who is pro-choice viewing the opposition as the enemy. The bottom line is these are tough moral issues and require a lot of thought. No one can come out and say, as the author of this article has, that Bush’s moral values are not what “they ought to be.” I do not believe the author necessarily wholeheartedly embraces this jagged view of morality, but I would like to state that anyone who does is terribly ignorant and misinformed.

The author goes on to make similar statements regarding Bush’s “fundamental moral values.” Among these, the author includes “honesty, compassion, and respect.” Apparently, to claim Bush is compassionate as I would “is to show blatant ignorance regarding the situation of minorities and the lower class in America.” That’s news to me. I must have missed the New York Times headline on that one. Frankly, ties between Saddam and September 11 are more clearly drawn. I can’t make statements regarding Bush’s true character, but I can say that I believe he is a man, as is Kerry, that forms policy with America’s best interests in mind. You’re going to have to come up with more evidence than selective comments on cutting funding for after-school programs to convince me otherwise.

As far as honesty is concerned, the author points to Iraq. The article cites Bush’s claims that Saddam had material to produce “sarin, mustard, and VX nerve agent.” All of the ingredients to produce nerve agents were actually discovered, yet the administration could not prove Saddam intended to actually develop the products listed above. Although WMDs were not found, to say “the man lied” is an uninformed statement. If that’s the conclusion you’d like to come to, fine, but you better claim that George H. W. Bush lied, Bill Clinton lied, and Al Gore lied as well. I don’t think any of them lied personally. They did what any president or presidential candidate should have done: convey to the public what their evidence suggests. How the president or candidate deals with that intelligence is another issue, and I have no problem with people who attack Bush on this point. Even though I don’t agree with most of what they have to say, it is nonetheless a valid viewpoint.

Finally, I’d like to comment in general on the author’s decision that a president should not be elected based on moral values. The author points out the difference between a role model and a leader. It’s true that a role model and a leader are two different things, but the best leaders are role models. The best leaders make the best decisions, and since we make decisions based on morals, voting with morals in mind is not such a bad idea.

All of this leads to one condensed final statement: The only reason I’ve taken the time to write this is that I believe our country’s greatest danger today is its polarized character. The black and white or, more appropriately, red and blue perspective of the election presented in the article I’ve discussed unfortunately reflects the political opinions of millions of people in this country. This, and not someone’s stance on gay rights, is a disgrace. The conservative vs. liberal atmosphere that today defines American politics has to be dissolved. The truth is there are greater threats in this world than a neighbor with a Bush-Cheney sign on his lawn. The truth is that no matter what you color yourself; red, blue, black, white, or rainbow, we are all Americans.