. J#RTS IVING THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY APRIL 28, 2004 Pee, . Lupie’s Cafe: skip the chili, go straight for the dessert By ANDREW SCHAPIRO AND VIRGINIA GREGORY Restaurant Critics This week we ventured to Huntersville in hot pursuit of chili, burgers, and the promise of a true Southern dining experience at Lupie’s Cafe. While Lupie’s facade fails to impress, the interior’s large wooden booths, black and white pictures, and exposed brick walls give Lupie’s a fun, funky flair. A myriad of multi-colored Christmas lights and a maroon and white tiled floor complete the casual, if stark, ambiance. We found large portions and a selection straight out of “Southern Living Magazine.” However, several minor flaws with our meal left us dissatisfied with what we expected to be hearty food full of fat and flavor. Guadalupe Duran opened the original Lupie’s Cafe in Huntersville - a place for good old-fashioned chili. Lupie’s fourteen years ago in Charlotte and in November of 2002 decided to open its only offshoot in Huntersville. The people working at Lupie’s intend to be the restaurant’s prime ingredient for success. Larry Wu, manager of the Huntersville location and longtime employee of Guadalupe, informed us that he encourages his servers to sit down with customers and catch up with the cafe’s regulars. He said that there are no chefs at Lupie’s, only experienced cooks who bring to the table home-style recipes that are meant to reflect traditions of the South. Chili is the word du jour at Lupie’s, and the menu features three regional versions. In fact, chili was also one of the most convincing of the dishes that we tried. Both the Cincinnati chili and the Texas chili are essentially stewed ground beef with a variety of spices. We preferred the Cincinnati with its smoky, tangy barbeque undertones and subtly sweet aroma. The texture was smoother than the chunky, spicy Texas chili. While bold, the Texas chili’s heat dominated all other flavors. The vegetarian chili received mixed reviews; however, the overall consensus was that it did not have much of a kick. The same can be said about the accompanying hunk of cornbread, which was slightly dry, but did serve as a helpful tool for cutting the Texas chili’s zing. While Lupie’s menu glorifies their hamburgers, claiming, “Poor folks can live on one of these a day,” the patty seemed out of place on such a large bun. It was automatically served well done, and the dry meat required a dousing of ketchup. The vegetable plate, which to our surprise could have included macaroni and cheese or potato salad, was nothing to write home about. Our tossed salad was mostly iceberg lettuce with a few tomatoes and carrots thrown in for color, but it was partially redeemed by the homemade vinaigrette. We found the marinated cucumbers cool, refreshing, and flavorful, but the macaroni and cheese and steamed squash were both fairly standard and unimpressive. The Charlotte wings were another highlight of the meal. They came by the dozen, and more emphasis was placed on the meat than on the sometimes-overbearing sauce. Served with the customary celery and a choice of ranch or bleu cheese dressing, the wings were lightly seasoned and served atop a traditional, tangy buffalo wing sauce. Though much of our meal left us unimpressed, a hefty portion of homemade kuchen for dessert won us over. Kuchen is a German derivative of peach cobbler. Peaches are layered between cake and custard before being covered in cinnamon-sugar and served piping hot. The nice, smooth texture and multitude of flavors was not overly sweet, even when drowning in whipped cream. We would bet that the banana pudding would be equally impressive, but our appetites did not hold up to the test. Lupie’s is the type of place that draws a crowd for a handful of tried and true favorites. One cannot go wrong with Lupie’s sweet tea (one of their signatures served in Mason jars). For chili connoisseurs, Lupie’s is worth a try, though their three distinct versions will most likely not broaden horizons. While the chili and burgers that Lupie’s boasts as its staple items failed to live up to our expectations, we agreed that the kuchen alone merits the trek to this Huntersville establishment. So go for dessert. Lupie’s Cafe in Huntersville is open Monday through Thursday from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m., and from 11a.m. until late on Fridays and Saturdays. Rotating specials are served nightly, and a number of domestic and imported beers are also available.

Lupie’s Cafe
101 Old Statesville Road
Huntersville, NC 28078
704-948-3959
www.lupiescafe.com

Average price of a meal for one person (excluding tax, tip, and beverages): $8.00

Restaurant Report Card
Food: B-/C
Atmosphere: B
Service: B+
Value: B+

Range of music incorporated into a cappella CDs
By MEGAN SPARKS
Special Contributor

Everybody knows at least one. You may have shared a class with them, lived with them in the same dorm, or perhaps fallen deeply in love with one (or two... or three... or... well, you get the point). Even if you haven’t had any of these experiences, you’ve at least attended their concerts and heard their music. These are the men and women of the Generals and the Delilahs, two of Davidson’s three distinguished a cappella groups.

Generals and Delilahs fans both have much to anticipate in the coming week. Both groups recently completed recording brand new CDs. “Three Piece Suit” from the Generals will be available on Saturday after their “Really Big Show,” and the Delilahs’ “Head Over Heels” will be released during a concert on Monday.

Davidson’s 15 Generals spent several marathon recording sessions in Charlotte in order to produce the various tracks on their album. Even if you think that you’ve heard all that the Generals have to offer, you will be surprised by this album. “Three Piece Suit” features several brand new songs that have not yet been performed and it includes music originally performed by a diverse range of artists like Coldplay, Sting, Vanessa Carlton, Rascal Flatts, and Oasis.

Because it was professionally recorded and mixed, familiar songs often sound slightly different than they do in performance. Some have slower rhythms or additional percussion. Rush Beam ’04 emphasizes the technical skill and complexity that went into their album. “It shows our growth and our roots at the same time,” he said. “This time we’re a bit more mature, sounding a little more polished, but [we’re] still having a good time.”

The Delilahs also have been working diligently this semester to produce their new album, “Head Over Heels.” Hours and hours have been invested, both in the studio and in long drives to and from their recording studio in South Carolina. “Head Over Heels” features an amazing array of musical genres, ranging from Michael Jackson’s classic rock to Aretha Franklin’s soulful sounds to the Dixie Chicks’ country songs and Broadway’s show tunes. The Delilahs put their own twist on these familiar favorites, adding new melodies, rhythms, and percussions to their versions of the songs.

Also recorded professionally, this album has a much fuller sound than some of their performances, and it too includes several brand new songs. Six new freshmen joined the Delilahs in January, and the whole group sang hours at their annual retreat in order to prepare for recording select tracks on the disc all together. This experience was priceless for Lauren Heinze ’07. “There is such a sense of camaraderie in the group,” she said. “As a freshman, getting to do some work on the last couple of songs of ‘Head Over Heels’ was a great experience. Making music with these ladies is just too much fun!”

These women have performed at events all over campus, ranging from the annual Bosom Buddies benefit dinner to the recent Celebration of Service. No matter how many times they perform, the women of the Delilahs always value their time together. “Sometimes, it feels more like a family of sisters than an extra-curricular group that meets twice a week,” Maggie McDougall ’04 comments. “I would not have traded the Delilahs as a part of my Davidson experience for anything in the world.”

The Generals will perform on Saturday, May 1, in their second annual “Really Big Show” in the Duke Family Performance Hall at 8 p.m. Tickets are $3 for students and $5 general admission. Copies of “Three Piece Suit” will be sold afterward for $10 apiece. The Delilahs will perform on Monday, May 3, at 10 p.m. in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room. Admission is free, and the bar will be open for all those 21 years and older. They will pre-sell copies of “Head Over Heels” for $10 each which will be available on May 3.

“Three Piece Suit” comes out Saturday.