12 FO ¥

Sports fans... Picks of the Week

Wildcat game of the week: Women’s Tennis vs. UNC-G Tuesday at 2:00 on the Covington courts

Having recently pulled off three straight wins, all versus conference opponents, the Cats look to continue this streak of play against UNC Greensboro this upcoming Tuesday. With a 4-1 record in the Southern Conference, Davidson should be able to pick apart the 1-3 Spartans and remain just a single game behind undefeated Furman. Although this one should be a blowout, it’s always fun.

SPORTS

As we’ve noted on the sports cover, last week’s column here created a great deal of confusion among some of our readers. While many people got the joke (regardless of whether or not they found it funny), a failure on my part to make it clear enough caused others to become concerned that the events depicted were real and there was in fact a recruiting scandal at Davidson College. Please take my word: there was not.

In fact, the degree of concern and even anger expressed by those who took the column seriously speaks to the high standards that Davidson College — its students, faculty, athletes, coaching staff, and alumni — holds for itself and, particularly, its athletics. The point of the satire, in part, was to express that even if the fictional story were to take place (let me restate again that it was entirely fabricated), it would probably not be scandalous. The events described pale in comparison to those that have been noted at other Division I schools, and they would likely be given no attention and meet with no repercussions were they true.

The idea of host athletes buying recruits meals at Fuddruckers and a Pizza Inn contrasts sharply with allegations that Alabama recruits were given five-figure monetary gifts from boosters, for example. Giving a recruit a few beers pales in comparison to the reports of alcohol abuse on recruiting trips that have been noted in the news of late. Similarly, last week’s tale of the Davidson recruit making out with a girl on a dance floor is a far cry from the devastating reports of sexual misconduct coming from the University of Colorado, among other schools. Yet many responded with dismay at the events I made up. Even the slightest bit of transgression is intolerable here. Some people demanded that I prove my “allegations,” while a number of others were disgusted at the thought of my story being true. Clearly, standards here are much higher than at many other D-I schools. It’s just another unique aspect of our athletic program, one from which those concerned can draw confidence that a true scandal is unlikely to occur.

More streakers in the lineup this week. This time the game was the Cheshire Senior Cup soccer final in London between Whitton Albion and Woodley Sports. Brian Pritchard, a member of Whitton Albion who is also a police officer on the side, took matters into his own hands and tackled the streaker to prevent the fans from witnessing such ridiculous behavior. The referee found the tackle to be illegal, however, and sent Pritchard off with a red card. Unfortunately, the hero blamed himself as his ten-man team lost 2-1.

Now for local news: sixty miles north on I-77 in Mount Airy, N.C., a football coach has been charged with drug trafficking. Police raided the house of John Martin, head coach at North Surry High School, early Friday morning. There they found methamphetamine, marijuana, prescription pills, cash, and drug paraphernalia. Martin, who has been a teacher for twenty years as well as a wrestling coach, was released from jail on a $25,000 bond. His wife,

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Columnist

Baseball is America’s national pastime. It’s the sport any red-blooded American worth his salt plays growing up and watches for the rest of his life. Charlotte has become one of America’s foremost cities. Its people love sports and, aside from the fallout with the Hornets two years ago, are dedicated to their teams. But baseball in Charlotte is like a keg on campus or good food in Commons: it doesn’t exist.

Charlotte, of course, has baseball fans, but these fans are stuck in the middle of a desert—an enormous, never-ending desert. Many small pools of water exist to drink from, but nothing big enough to satisfy the immense thirst Charlotteans, as Americans, have for baseball. To the South, though, many miles away, there is a lake, which has quenched the thirst.Surface and embarrass our college. Who was responsible for most of his sales, was released on a $55,000 bond. Martin has been suspended with pay while the investigation unfolds, though he will probably not be paid in cash. Richard Simmons, famous for his ostentatious workout videos, got a work- out in while waiting for his plane in a Phoenix airport. When a 255-pound Harley Davidson salesman made fun of Simmons, the frizzy-haired calorie burner reacted violently. Simmons yelled, “It’s not nice to make fun of people with issues,” and slapped the heavyset ex-cage wrestler on the cheek. Chris Farney, 23, the victim of the assault, commented that it would be unfair to have struck back. Chances are he could have slapped Simmons straight to his arrival gate.

Brian Pritchard, a member of Whitton Albion who is a police officer, tackled the streaker...the ref found the tackle to be illegal and sent Pritchard off with a red card...Unfortunately, the hero blamed himself as his ten-man team lost 2-1.

So you can best understand this unbelievable behavior, I will do my best to explain what was caught on tape. First of all, it takes place at a junior high school football game in Waterloo, Nebraska. As a brawl breaks out between the two teams, Angela Louise Toles runs onto the field where her two sons are involved. (Mom to the rescue!) She then proceeds to grab a helmet (I’m pretty sure it wasn’t her own) and swing it at the opposing team attackers. Toles has pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge and has yet to accept an invitation from the school’s baseball team to give a clinic on proper swing technique.

Sexual barriers have been broken in Mexico, as they have announced the establishment of a Mexican Gay Soccer League. Players will all be homosexual, and it is mandatory that the officials all be gay as well. The team names include The Clan, Fashion Team, G Strength, and (my favorite) Your Mother. No prediction has been made about the success of the league.

In addition, I’ve noted before how athletes here don’t receive special treatment, particularly where academics are concerned. Nothing can better attest to this than the response I got from a teacher who was upset at the thought that I might have been referring to his/her class in my column. The account that I gave of the class, claiming that it was easy because the students “don’t even have to do the reading every day” and that one athlete got a paper extension because he was out with mono for two weeks, hardly calls for concern. But this obviously does not meet the standards that the teacher has set for his/her classes and those that the school has set for its athletes. This certainly stands out against true instances of academic fraud that have been discovered at places such as UGA, where assistant basketball coach Jim Harrick Jr.’s “Principles and Strategies of Basketball” course has brought incredible embarrassment to Georgia’s athletic and academic programs.

Rest assured that the state of athletics and academics at Davidson is fine and up to the standards of even the oldest alumni who called to voice disapproval. And they promise to remain that way, at least until the next time a wayward sports editor decides to make up a controversy. Apologies again for the confusion.

Not so long ago, this lake was the best in all of America. There were giant trees surrounding its shores and a steady rotation of five lifeguards who kept everyone safe. In recent years, however, the water level has declined, the trees have been cut, and the lifeguards headed for bluer waters. Now, travelers are not sure what to expect from this lake, known to all as the Atlanta Braves. To the North, even further away, there is another lake, which in the past has disappointed many travelers. While there have been times of immense rainfall, and even a period when a beautiful waterfall flowed without end, in recent years most travelers have kept away. Over the winter, though, there was a lot of action up North and folks there are bragging about how wonderful their lake will be in the summer and, hopefully, fall months. So this year, despite the slightly longer hike, travelers stranded in Charlotte have loaded up the bandwagons and see Baseball, page 13.

WEDNESDAY, March 31, 2004