THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2004 15

from Men’s Soccer, page 16

first half]. We played very well.” Deja vu seemed to hit Davidson hard, however, as the change in half paralleled
a change in play. After playing an excellent brand of soccer in the first half, Davidson was unable to match
South Carolina’s intensity and athleticism in the second period. Just three minutes into the second half, South Carolina ripped home
a shot to even the score at 1-1. The Gamecocks added what proved to be the game-winning goal just three
minutes later. As a result of the brutal six-minute stretch, the Wildcats found themselves fighting to get back in the
game rather than trying to maintain the lead. South Carolina later added two more insurance goals and won the game
handily.

“It’s a little problem for us,” Spear admitted. “When we give up a goal the guys need to stay positive.
Recently, after we get one goal scored on us, it’s been rolling into two or three.”

The score fails to represent the match accurately, however, as the Wildcats outshot the Gamecocks 20-11. Davidson’s abysmal scoring percentage
seems to be a trend early in this season. Aside from a five-goal outburst against a weak Vanderbilt team earlier
this season, Davidson has scored just five total goals in their other seven matches, as opposed to the 15 that
they have surrendered.

“We have had some games this season, such as San Francisco or Charleston, where we could have put the teams
away,” Spear said. “I think if we could get a few more goals then we would get our confidence going.”

The Wildcats' schedule fails to get any easier, as they travel north on Saturday to battle ACC powerhouse Virginia before
hosting undefeated Southern Conference rival UNC Greensboro at Alumni Stadium next Tuesday. The match against UNCG is crucial for the
Wildcats' season, as they cannot afford to fall to 0-2 in the conference. Davidson hopes to utilize their current ten-day
layoff as a chance to practice and change the momentum in their favor.

Women’s Soccer loses to Asheville and Chattanooga

Picks up first Southern Conference loss this season

By MICHAEL TELLIS
Staff Writer

It was a tough week for the women’s soccer team, as the Wildcats lost at home to UNC-Asheville on Wednesday
before falling to Chattanooga at brand-new Alumni Stadium this weekend. The ’Cats dominated the offensive end against Asheville, as they
out-shot the Bulldogs 13-7, but a penalty kick in the 71st minute by Asheville was enough to secure the game
for Asheville and hand Davidson its first home loss of the season.

Davidson’s defense was much improved from the 0-8 loss to Duke, however, as Sarah Hobart ’05 tallied four saves and
freshman defender Nancy Haskell ’08 made an impressive defensive save to deny the Bulldogs the lead early in the second
half. Still, the effort was not enough for a win. A disappointed Haskell says, “A few mistakes in the back
cost us dearly. We really had the potential to win this one.”

Continued head coach Greg Ashton, “I was really disappointed by the result of the game. We played well enough to
win. But they took the lead through a penalty and we were not able to come back.”

The ’Cats then went into their SoCon game on Friday against Chattanooga hoping to extend their unbeaten streak in the
Southern Conference this season. Hobart put on a valiant display on the night, tallying four saves, including one from the
penalty spot, but a three-goal burst late in the first half was too much for the ’Cats to recover from,
and Davidson eventually fell 4-0 in the first game ever played at Alumni Stadium.

According to Ashton, “[The game] was really disappointing since it was ourFirst SoCon Year and semester-long programs in: Japan, China,
England, India, Costa Rica. Experiential learning through cultural immersion, academic seminars, and independent field study makes Friends World the educational
experience of a lifetime.

Year-long program in Comparative Religion in: China, India, Thailand, Rome.

FRIENDS WORLD PROGRAM
LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY
239 Montauk Highway, Southampton, NY 11968

FRIENDS WORLD PROGRAM
Live, Study, and Work Abroad While Earning College Credit

The Friends World Program is part of Long Island University, the seventh largest private university in the country.

Spend your spring
New $500 Travel Incentive Award. Call for details (631) 287-8474
e-mail: fwp@liu.edu
www.liu.edu/friendsworld

---

...lost our concentration and pretty much lost the game. We came back strong in the second half, but by then
it was too late.” Haskell felt that the team was not playing at their best in the game, saying, “We
weren’t in possession enough and the other team was able to capitalize on that.”

The ’Cats defense does seem to have some issues with maintaining concentration, as this was the second game in little
over a week in which a lapse of attention has cost Davidson the game. The Wildcats allowed four goals in
quick succession against Duke last week in the 8-0 loss in Durham. The team seems to be working on their
problems though, as Kara Hawkesworth ’07 says, “We have reviewed our tapes and are working on our mistakes.”

The ’Cats are also getting ready for their big match at home against Western Carolina on Wednesday, and Ashton is
optimistic about the team’s prospects, as he says, “We are hoping to put on a strong defensive performance and come
back strong and do well.” The ’Cats will then travel to Georgia Southern on Saturday. Says Ashton, “Playing away in
conference is always tough but we have to take each game as it comes.”

The team has not let the three-game losing streak affect it much, and is instead using it as a motivation
to do even better in the upcoming games. In Haskell’s words, “We are really pumped up. We need to do
well in each and every game left in the season, and hope to turn our fortunes around.” As Ashton says,
“Our goal is to get to the tournament, which means that we have to do well in every game from
now on.”

---

From Connolly, page 12

...chain of events I will still be talking about at cocktail parties in 30 years. First, Western’s coach, who was
maybe 20 years old, stormed off the ice, but not before rifling his clipboard in no particular direction. Then someone’s
mother came on the ice. When was the last time you saw a mother disturb a game? I think I
was nine and my teammate had just wet his pants. Shortly thereafter, half of Western’s team quit. Then their fans
started climbing the boards screaming obscenities, some of which I'd never heard before. Certifiable lunatics—you simply cannot make this kind
of stuff up. Finally, the refs decided that if the five Western players who didn’t quit would play fair hockey,
the game could continue. But then, a Western player inexplicably tore off his jersey and skated around the ice like
a damn figure skater. Ah, yes, the soap opera that is club sports. And with that, we’ve reached our word
limit for the week. Best of luck to anyone with upcoming games. See you in the weight room. Psych....

---

Join America’s #1 Student Tour Operator
1-800-648-4849 / www.ststravel.com

---

DRAW FROM THE MAGIC PUMPKIN AND WIN 10%, 20%, UP TO 100% OFF YOUR MORNING COFFEE PURCHASE
*IN-STORE PROMOTION, DISCOUNT APPLIED AT REGISTER. ONLY APPLIES TO PURCHASES BEFORE 12:00 NOON. WE OPEN MON-FRI 6AM, WEEKENDS 7AM
FRESH BAKED PASTRIES * MUFFINS * BAGELS
19930 West CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS
Near McAlister’s DELI - Exit 28, OFF I-77
704-896-1900
