---

2 THE DAVIDSONIAN | NEWS WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2004

MLK, from page 1

The first annual King Day 5K Fun Run/Walk launched Monday’s activities. Over a hundred participants ran through the town of Davidson.

Children were also able to directly partake in the commemoration of Dr. King as Davidson students led activities for them to learn about Dr. King’s life and his impact on the civil rights movement.

The majority of Monday’s events centered around guest speaker Myrlie Evers-Williams.

After her husband’s death, Evers-Williams became one of the most prominent civil rights activists and was elected as the first female chairperson of the NAACP in 1995.

In her speech at the Community Convocation, Evers-Williams emphasized the importance of consistently remembering and acting upon Dr. King’s message rather than acknowledging it only once a year.

She stressed that the same issues dealt with during the civil rights movement are still prevalent today but need to be addressed in different ways.

Evers-Williams also commented on the problem of motivating young people to contribute to the modern struggle for equality and the importance of helping them to remember Dr. King’s message. She encouraged students not to forget the past, as “where we are today is a direct result of the past,” and spoke about the need for “strong leadership at all ages in all regions.”

Sarah Cantrell ’06 described the address as motivating.

“She challenged all of us to make a difference and make sure we are living in the type of community we want to live in,” Cantrell said.

A community lunch and question-answer session led by Evers-Williams followed the convocation. Later in the afternoon, small group discussions were held regarding race at Davidson and in society.

A panel discussion concerning affirmative action concluded Davidson’s MLK Day activities. Students, faculty, and community members gathered in the 900 Room to converse on whether or not affirmative action should still hold a place in contemporary American society.

Panelists represented a range of views on the issue and included Davidson faculty members Dan Aldridge, professor of History, and Mary Thornberry, chair and professor of Political Science, as well as conservative radio talk show host and vice chair of the Tennessee Republican party, Kevin Moxley.

Students expressed a variety of reactions in response to the debate.

Brian Creech ’05 said, “The discussion helped to shape my opinion of affirmative action as something that should change from a numerical or quota system to a process where we consider both the individual applicant as well as societal factors, such as lack of opportunity as a result of poverty, class, or geography.”

Braxton Winston ’05 said, “I think affirmative action should still have a place right now, because there are a lot of open wounds that still need to be healed. As far as the argument about fighting racism with racism, you have to fight fire with fire sometimes in order to be effective.”

---

Photo by Dorsett Clark
Above: Evers-Williams spoke at a fireside chat following her lecture in Duke. Below: Students and community members help children learn about King through coloring.

File photo by Dal

---

The Swedish Program, Hamilton College, 198 College Hill Road, Clinton, New York 13323
(315) 737-0123 www.swedishprogram.org