THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES Wednesday, APRIL 7, 2004 ©

‘Bloggers’ taking the internet by storm

For the last week or so, I’ve taken a break from more traditional methods of procrastination, such as video games
or IM’ing, and turned my attention to the vastly popular world of internet blogging. What started out as placing a
few particularly interesting blogs in my “favorites” list has turned into a full-fledged addiction. It’s safe to say that I’ve
officially become a participant in the bustling network of web-posting fanaticism known as the blogosphere.

The idea of a blog, short for the term “Weblog,” is one of the hottest things to hit the internet
since the advent of file-sharing. For one interested in learning about the intricacies of politics or world news and what
people think about things, the blog-world is a great resource. Pundits, commentators, polemics, and even politicians come together to discuss
current ideas, trends, and policies in this country and abroad. But don’t think all bloggers are political nerds. Aspiring photographers
have begun harnessing the power of blogs to gain outside commentary on their work. Hopeless romantics enjoy the way a
blog can be made into an aesthetically pleasing, and selectively public journal. These are just a few examples.

Blogging is becoming more than just an advanced message board. Former presidential candidate Howard Dean built his campaign on the
shoulders of an effective blog community where voters could get their views heard and embrace one another in support of
Dean’s message. Politicians are beginning to take bloggers seriously, realizing the potential of e-campaigning via the blogosphere.

For a small sampling of some of the fun that blogging has to offer, I’ll fill you in on one
of the dramas that unfolded last week between two distinguished political blogs. Recently, a well-visited left-wing blog known as “The
Daily Kos” became embroiled in an argument with the right-wing flagship blog “Tacitus.” In response to last week's horrific killings
of civilians in Fallujah, the “Kos” made some particularly insensitive comments regarding the victims when it posted, “They are there
to wage war for profit; Screw them.” Tacitus saw its chance to attack. Thousands of posts and comments later, “Kos”
was ashamedly in the doghouse and offered a remorseful apology to the infuriated blog community. The firestorm was finally put
to an end when the staff of presidential candidate John Kerry condemned the leftist blog and removed a link to
the “Daily Kos” from the official Kerry website “in light of the unacceptable statement about the death of Americans made.”
Tacitus: 1, Daily Kos: 0.

I was hooked. Rather than remain an idle observer, I soon created a blog of my own. After only one
day, and a few pathetically small experimental posts, I already had random bloggers leaving comments on my page encouraging my
nascent blog-addiction. Despite its tendency to waste hours and hours of precious Davidson time, becoming an official blogger is something
we should all try. Best of all, blogging can be anything you want it to be, whether that be an
e-journal, a slightly more sophisticated form of communication than AIM, a forum for intense political debates, or even a place
to post photo albums. Websites are old-hat. Blogging is hip, cool, entertaining, informative, therapeutic. If this article hasn’t sold you
on the idea, I don’t know what will. Happy posting!

ZACH WILLIAMS

By ALEX MASSENGALE Guest Columnist

9/11 proved beyond a shadow of a doubt that our dependence on Middle Eastern oil has created thorny national security
problems. President Bush had the opportunity following 9/11 to unite people on the issue of conservation and explain to the
American people how they could be patriotic and make America more secure by lowering their energy consumption. Unfortunately, rather than
call on Americans for small sacrifices for the good of the nation, he continued to follow his earlier short-sighted consumption
and production-driven energy policy.

The issue of energy dependence is far too complex to deal with in one column, so I will tackle one
part of it. One important and simple way to obtain energy independence is by using less gasoline in our automobiles.
While automotive technology has continued to improve, the average car sold today gets approximately the same mileage it did in
1980! This is inexcusable. Part of the blame lies on consumers. Currently, more than half the new vehicles sold are
light trucks. Buying 6000-pound vehicles that are three stories high and seat sixteen so you can cruise around Birkdale is
socially irresponsible and unnecessary. Similarly, you don’t need something designed for rough mountain trails in order to cruise I-77 on
the way to Wal-Mart.

Luckily, consumers now have more choices than ever for responsible driving. Honda and Toyota now sell hybrid cars that run
on a combination of gasoline and electric power. As an example of how efficient this technology is, the Honda Civic
Hybrid achieves forty-six miles per gallon in the city. Compare this to the thirteen achieved by an Escalade. In the
near-term, environmentally aware consumers will have even more choices as more manufacturers begin to sell hybrid vehicles.

Part of the blame for our current energy dependence lies on the lifestyle of many Americans, a lack of quality
public transportation, and poor growth planning that makes it hard to get around on foot or by bicycle. Here at
Davidson, I watch seniors drive up the hill to work out at the union or to go to class. Not
only does this save them no time, it wastes resources. If Americans could cut down on unnecessary trips such as
these by walking, carpooling, or by better planning we could save millions of barrels of oil a year.

Consumers alone cannot bear the burden for relieving us of our energy dependence. The government needs to provide active leadership
on this issue. To begin with, it needs to increase the tax incentives given to consumers who purchase efficient vehicles
while increasing the tax penalties on consumers who purchase the least efficient vehicles. The government also must raise the Corporate
Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards. CAFE is the minimum average an automaker's vehicles must achieve. For cars, the number is
27.5 mpg, for light trucks 20.7 mpg. Both of these are low and haven’t increased since the mid-1980s. Even a
rise of a few miles per gallon could completely eliminate our need for Saudi oil and give us much more
flexibility in terms of foreign policy. Raising the limit on both cars and light trucks to 40 mpg by 2015
is technologically feasible and would leave us a far more secure nation.Standards work. In the first decade after they were
established, fuel economy doubled, peaking at 26.2 mpg in 1987. They worked then and they will work now. Raising fuel
economy is only part of the answer to achieving energy independence, and it is only a short-term answer. Eventually, whether
because of issues of international political reality, pollution, or dwindling oil supply, we will need to migrate to cleaner, renewable
sources of energy. If the government adequately funds and provides incentives for this type of research, and if government and
consumers take steps to conserve what oil remains, we make this transition much more painless. For those interested in learning
more about this issue, the Young Democrats and the EAC are hosting a seminar on Southern Environmental issues in the
Sprinkle Room at 3:30 p.m. on Sunday, Apr. 18. Rick Middleton, president of the Southern Environmental Law Center, Tom Massengale,
the founder of the North Carolina Nature Conservancy, and Steve Roady from Earth Justice will speak and answer questions.

The many forms of Davidson senioritis

A Davidson senior is like a pre-trial Michael Jackson: one’s a balmy pedophile, and the other’s a peevish bibliophile. Veritable
armies of disgruntled fans (carrying cases of my new soft-drink “AliCola,” which is made with only the finest speed, ephedrine,
and Icelandic minotaur hooves. It’s carbonated too!) often question why I don’t write articles anymore. Well, I do write them,
I just don’t bother to compose, type, or send them. They all occupy the Pompeii-like rubble of my medulla ob-long-gone-a.
When one creative idea emerges, I am forced to sacrifice it to the god of street wine, Die-all-nightis, in order
to make room for more important things; like the number of teeth in Monet’s beard comb (it’s 57 by the
way, ladies. I bet that well-groomed impressionist did more than paint in that water lily pond!). Yes, after four years
at Davidson, I am about as worthless as Janet’s sunburst nipple-armor; I don’t do (or cover) anything, I just look
purty. I’m actually taking some liberty with the whole “pretty” characterization as hygiene is an archaic exercise in um... doing
stuff. Anyway, there’s more to life than being really, really ridiculously good-looking. Like reciting inane movie quotes and having a
special furniture friend named Senor Cushy McSofa.

the ali diaries
ALI FITZGERALD

My friends and I have actually devised a method whereby we clock the number of hours spent in our living
room through a punch-card method (ingeniously inserted into the remote control). The person who logs the most hours on the
couch takes home monthly door prizes of our choosing. For March, it was a coozie constructed using left-over string cheese
and a women’s health magazine detailing the dangers of early diabetes (we figured it might come in handy!). Hmm, wasn’t
it the Abbey of Abs, Brad Pitt, who said, “The first rule of being a senior, is you don’t talk
about being a senior.” Sigh, Brad is so wise since the seven years he spent in Tibet. If we talked
about being seniors, and having only a month to go on this collegiate free-fall, then we would have to acknowledge
that next year we are going to be stocking prune juice at Uncle Morty’s Laxative Emporium. And no one wants
to talk about that.

Kerry should take notice: Nader makes case worth hearing
By ASHISH GEORGE
Guest Columnist

I have begun to wonder: Is there such a thing as a John Kerry supporter? I mean, of course, there
are plenty of people who say they will vote for Kerry, but how many of these folks are actually enthusiastic
about it? Wherever I talk to people who intend to vote Democratic this year, the first explanation they offer is
not Kerry’s character or his stance on the death penalty or his intelligence. Rather, the rationale begins with George W.
Bush and works backward. George W. Bush, I am told, is just so awful that anybody would be an improvement.
And apparently, anybody would garner the votes predicated on such reasoning. Thus the problem with the “anybody-but-Bush” mentality. If you
say you are voting against Candidate A and vote for Candidate B for no better reason than he is not
Candidate A, then what exactly does that vote signify? Well, quite a lot. Votes are interpreted as mandates for philosophies
of governance as well as specific policy proposals. The more votes Kerry gets, the more confident he will feel with
his philosophy and proposals. The same philosophy that leads Kerry to, say, point with pride to his support for the
interventions in Grenada, Panama, Kosovo, and Afghanistan will lead him to act similarly in future situations—with much more than just
a vote in the Senate.

Ralph Nader takes the position Kerry is too tame to even consider. Ralph Nader, meanwhile, has both the philosophy and
positions of a political curiosity, primarily because he is not a self-conscious political specimen. He takes the positions Kerry is
too tame to even consider. While Kerry has the audacity to say he wants to “roll back Bush’s tax cuts
for the wealthiest Americans” yet proposes a reduction in the corporate tax rate, Nader has had the integrity to maintain
pressure on corporations exploiting the public. Since 1966, Nader has had a hand in innumerable progressive victories ranging from the
recall of defective automobiles to the establishment of the Environmental Protection Agency. Running through all of Nader’s battles has been
a strain of contempt for those who use power for inordinate personal gain. With such tenacity, Nader has gained the
respect of people of diverse political persuasions; 25 percent of Nader voters in 2000 were Republicans. All that being said,
Nader is far from perfect. He is sometimes mulish and more than a little paranoid. His candidacy deserves just as
much scrutiny as Kerry’s or Bush’s, but also just as much consideration. But isn’t a vote for Nader a vote
for Bush? Nader isn’t going to win, whereas Kerry can. Yes, Kerry can win, but what good is a victory
when the changes it will bring on key issues—the “war on terror,” the economy, poverty—are neither bold nor innovative? Will
Kerry cut the absurdly bloated military budget? Will he rein in corporate irresponsibility? Will he see poverty as a blight
on American idealism? All of these are questions Kerry and his lukewarm defenders need to reflect on. If Kerry can
offer compelling answers of affirmation, he deserves every American’s vote. As Kerry ponders, perhaps Ralph Nader can direct the senator’s
meditations.
