4 THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2004

How foreigners view the U.S: Impressions from students abroad

By Carey BAXTER
Staff Writer

The U.S. presidential candidates have focused their campaigns largely around foreign policy issues, including America’s credibility around the world. Of
the 167 Davidson students currently studying abroad, the Davidsonian asked several students about their general experiences and their impressions of
how the politics of the American presidential election is affecting people of foreign nations.

According to the Davidson College website, about 65 percent of students study abroad at some time during their Davidson career.
The Dean Rusk International Studies Program coordinates Davidson-only Study Abroad programs and embodies Davidson’s belief that knowledge of other cultures
and of the social, economic, political, and scientific influences that shape the world are important to a liberal arts education.

India

Brian Orland ’07 reported that many of his conversations with young Indians involved American politics. To varying degrees, they all
criticized the United States’ actions in regard to the invasion of Iraq. “A 27-year-old named Ajay who I took tea
with in the backroom of his tiny statue and pipe shop in Calcutta agreed with his slightly older brother that
the United States acted selfishly and irresponsibly in regards to the invasion of Iraq. They question whether President Bush has
adequate intellectual ability to lead the United States,” he said. “Most people were interested in Americans’ opinions. I shared with
them the strongly divided state in which the United States now finds itself on the issue,” he said.

Orland chose India for its culture and wildlife, which differs so greatly from that of the United States. So far
in India he has seen “inspiring expressions of spirituality, commitment, and community.” “I have done little else in my life
as engaging and wonderful and sad as wandering down a street in India,” he said.

Katherine Sorrell ’06, who is also studying in India this fall, believes that Indian news media, to the detriment of
local communities, often focuses on American news more than on Indian news. One example was the Clinton/Lewinsky scandal, which overshadowed
local news of mass suicides and infanticide in a farming community. “That’s what sold,” she said.

She has been traveling extensively within the country and said that her experience has exceeded her expectations. “It is fascinating
to be in a country where the ancient life still infuses the present and where society repeatedly questions modern norms
that we often take for granted,” she said. Sorrell has seen how the Indian people are “grappling with national, regional,
and local identities” and how “religion, culture, and politics all play a role.”

Orland and Sorrell are studying at Madras Christian College in Madras in Davidson’s 14th consecutive Semester-in-India program, led by Davidson
Professor of History Jonathan Berkey.

Spain

Mark Agerton ’06 is studying in Madrid. “It’s definitely Kerry-country here in Spain, and from my impressions, all over Europe,”
he said.

The Deadline for the George L. Abernathy Foundation is November 12th!

Abernathy Funds are available to students in the following three categories:
1) Independent student research, either in the US or abroad
2) Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year
3) Collaborative research by students & faculty. The student must have a clearly defined independent role in the research.

At the request of the donor, applications are limited to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences.

FYI: LAST YEAR THE ABERNATHY ENDOWMENT SUPPORTED PROJECTS WITH GRANTS UP TO $3,500; THE AVERAGE AWARD WAS ABOUT $2,000.

Application forms are available in the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283). Completed application forms are
due back Friday.in this office before 5:00 p.m. on November 12. The announcement of awards will occur on or before
Jan. 15, 2004. 2005 independently from any Davidson Abroad program. “It is definitely Kerry-country here in Spain, and from my
impressions, all over Europe,” he said. Last spring in Madrid, a terrorist bombing of four commuter trains killed nearly 200
people days before Spain’s presidential election. “The Bush response to terrorism is extremely different from the response of Spanish President
Zapatero, who is of the view that terrorism will be eradicated not by military operations and might, but by multilateralism
and development in under-developed countries to rectify problems of hunger and poverty.”

“Coverage of the [U.S. presidential] debates, of the candidates’ political moves and counter-moves, and the polls and forecasts for the
elections is very thorough.” Agerton, a native Texan, said he enjoyed living with a Spanish family and commented on their
political views. “My family here in Spain is vehemently anti-Bush,” Agerton said. “I think the US—or, more accurately, the Bush
administration—is viewed as arrogant, isolationist, and unjust. [In Spain] there’s a real conscience that the U.S. elections don’t just affect
the U.S. economy, society, and security, but also the global economy and global security.”

About his experience more generally, Agerton said, “I am taking interesting and yet less demanding classes, making new friends, and
exploring a cool city that has everything.” He has had to adjust, however, to bizarre hours, eating schedules, and a
nightlife that begins at about 1 or 2 a.m. and ends at dawn. He was also very happy to find
“an incredible ballroom dance studio.”

Switzerland

Brandon Carroll ’06 is participating in a Kent State-sponsored study abroad program in Geneva, Switzerland with a focus on Economics,
Political Science, and French. Carroll has also heard a lot about American politics in his travels around Europe. “Generally, if
you want to make a friend in France, it doesn’t hurt to not like Bush,” he said. “Whether I’ve met
folks from Strasbourg, Annecy, or Marseille, all of them are vehemently against the war, and if they choose at all,
they’re rooting for Kerry.”

“There are exceptions, though,” he said. “Among the older French, those who still remember World War II vividly, there is
a more conservative bent. This sentiment was on display during the 60th anniversary of the Normandy invasions.”

“I should also say that anti-Americanism has been limited. Most French still continue to distinguish between the average American citizen
and the American government,” Carroll said. “But that could change if Bush is re-elected.”

“There is a lack of academic rigor in my classes here compared to Davidson, but I am still learning a
lot,” he said. “I learn just as much from hearing [my professors’] stories about how the [World Trade Organization’s] bureaucracy
works as I do doing a home-stay with a French-speaking family here.”

The highlight of Carroll’s experience has been the Eurail pass, which allows one to travel all over Europe. “Between my
stay in Tours, some traveling this summer for a project, and my travels through this program, I’ll have seen about
17 or 18 different countries,” he said.

CAFES, COFFEEHOUSES & ROASTERY

Gear Up Your DISCOUNT

DRAW FROM THE MAGIC PUMPKIN AND WIN 10%, 20% UP TO 100%* OFF YOUR MORNING COFFEE PURCHASE

*IN-STORE PROMOTION, DISCOUNT APPLIED AT REGISTER. ONLY APPLIES TO PURCHASES BEFORE 12:00 NOON. WE OPEN MON-FRI 6AM, WEEKENDS 7AM

FRESH BAKED PASTRIES * MUFFINS * BAGELS

19930 West CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS Near McCALLISTER’s DELI - Exit 28, OFF I-77 704-896-1900
