12 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2004

By Wilson McCrory
Sports Editor

In so many ways, Davidson football’s trip to San Diego, CA this past weekend showed exactly what is wrong with the current state of our football program. On the surface, it was an embarrassing 56-0 drubbing, the first time the Wildcats have been shut out since the beginning of the 1999 season against Morehead State. Against the Toreros, the offense was wholly inept, with quarterbacks Damion White ’05 and Beaux Jones ’08 combining to go 10-32 with three interceptions and no touchdowns. John Leverett ’07, the stalwart of the Wildcat offense, was never able to get in any rhythm either, as Davidson had to pass early and often to try to recover from a 21-0 hole after just 15 minutes of play.

The game reflected a season that has been plagued by turnovers and offensive inefficiency, as the Wildcats lost the ball four times against San Diego to give them 23 turnovers for the season. Davidson’s opponents, on the other hand, have given the ball over only nine times over that same stretch. Davidson’s defense was also again porous in allowing 418 yards, only 13 above their per-game average. The Wildcats allowed 42 points in the first half alone and allowed yardage in chunks both on the ground and through the air.

To be sure, the product on the field is not currently what it was in 2000, when the Wildcats went a perfect 10-0 en route to their first perfect season in school history. According to Athletics Director Jim Murphy, the team has struggled with attrition and injuries since that period, leaving the squad with little depth in key areas such as the offensive line and at quarterback over the past few years. Whether the change in performance is due to the aforementioned reasons, a difference in talent, a new coaching staff, or just plain bad luck is

By Richard Connolly
Staff Columnist

Did you hear that? That was the sound of my GPA crashing through the floor, not that it had especially far to fall. How can teachers expect Red Sox fans to maintain focus at a time like this? Our situation is not unlike Brooks’ from The Shawshank Redemption, who was released from countless years in prison only to find himself completely lost and utterly clueless. And while surely none of us Sox fans will hang ourselves in a seedy motel room, our heads very well may explode during these next few days.

Boston last went to the World Series in 1986, and despite being just three-years-old at the time, I distinctly remember slugging six-packs of Gerber products when the Sox knocked off the California Angels in seven games to capture the pennant. I also remember hanging Bill Buckner in effigy from my crib (I was a late-walker) after game six of the World Series.

Fortunately, Cross Country is one of the sports that often gets overlooked at Davidson. It’s a shame, because

By Austin Mercadante and Wilson McCrory
Senior Staff Writer and Sports Editor

Field hockey goalie Sarah Nolan continues to garner recognition for her play in goal for the Wildcats, as she was one of four goalies in the nation recently named to the Division I North/South All-Star game by the National Field Hockey Coaches Association. Nolan owns Davidson career records for minutes played and career saves, and is second in career shutouts with ten.

Over the past two years, football has been outscored by San Diego 110-7. Davidson,For Red Sox in Boston’s 4-1 victory Tues. Now, being 21, my options for six-packs extend well beyond Banana-Tropical Blend and Apple Delight, and as such, the 2004 pennant celebration in my room was similar to the one in the Red Sox clubhouse, minus the 30-inch Dominican midget, of course. What’s more, Bill Buckner now resides in the Idaho woods, close to the Unabomber’s old place, and the only Sox player currently hanging in my crib is Pokey Reese, whose poster shares wall space with Avril Lavigne and the Rat Pack. Saying “World Series” to a Sox fan is like anyone’s guess.

Meanwhile, men’s soccer has scored 115 points in seven games this year. Men’s soccer is undefeated in its last five games, with four wins and a tie in that stretch, and appears to have snapped out of an early season funk in which they were winless in six straight games in September and October. Davidson is also 4-0-1 in overtime play this season after beating Furman, Wofford, and Elon in extra time this week. In other men’s soccer news, Mac Wilkie ’07 was named TIAA-CREF Student-Athlete of the Week. Wilkie had five points in three games for the Wildcats, including a game-tying assist and game-winning goal in the same game against Mercer. For his efforts, Wilkie was also named to the UNC Greensboro/adidas Classic All-Tournament team.

But there is more wrong with the Davidson football program than the 5-13 record over the past two seasons, and a lot of it has nothing to do with what goes on between the hash marks on Saturday afternoons. More disconcerting than the lack of quality play on the field is the general apathy directed towards the football team by the Davidson community. We will never be a Michigan, Tennessee, or Ohio State, where football dominates the college culture, and that is fine. Indifference, on the other hand, is not tolerable. The student section is never close to full at football games, and attendance has fallen more than 33 percent over the past few years to below 2,000 per game, mostly because there is little reason to care what Davidson does on a weekly basis. In 2000, when attendance was over 3,000 fans per game, the schedule was littered with competitive games against local rivals such as Centre College, Sewanee, Hampden-Sydney, and Randolph-Macon, in addition to what are now Pioneer Football League South teams.

Lisa Turtle saying “Yes” to Screech. We really don’t know the meaning of the word. How are we supposed to act? My buddy called from Boston and told me he dangled by one arm from a 40-foot streetlight in Kenmore Square during last Wednesday’s riots. Is that normal for a pennant celebration? Like the whereabouts of Whitey Bulger, nobody knows. After dethroning the Yankees in the greatest comeback in baseball history, Red Sox Nation waited for our next opponent the way a Kentucky Derby-winning horse set out to stud waits for his next filly: the race has already been won, and all we can hope for now is some ephemeral (look it up) enjoyment. Cardinals, Astros—it could have been Martha Stewart’s prison softball squad for all we cared. On Saturday night, the Red Sox surrendered nine runs on 11 hits and made four errors en route to winning game one, 11-9. Who the hell are we playing? Surely not the best team from the National League.

Women’s soccer is still plowing through conference competition in the final weeks before the Southern Conference Tournament. They have recorded five wins and a tie in the last six games, all against Southern Conference teams, and have outscored their opponents 18-1 in that stretch. The defense is looking very strong, and Sarah Hobart ’05 continues her strong work in goal.