Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The Davidsonian First Class U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2004 VOLUME 95, NUMBER 14

Seniors seek adventures in Watson grant proposals

By JOHN HELMS Staff Writer

Every year Davidson College’s Graduate Fellowships Committee nominates four Davidson seniors to compete for the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship that will fund world travel and independent research for a year. Each candidate presents a proposal that describes the student’s project and the personal significance of it. Tom Shandley, Dean of Students and Vice President of Student Life, said, “They’re looking for someone who put together a proposal that is a synthesis of their college career in class, out of class, and how they spent their summers.”

This year’s nominees are Hannah Fuhr ’04, Gray Lyons ’04, Jodi McQuillen ’04, and Susannah Powell ’04. Despite the generous grant of $22,000 for a year abroad, some may be hesitant in accepting such an offer since the fellowship does not allow students to return to their home country for the entire year in which they are participating in the program. To some adventurous students, the idea of spending a year outside of the United States is very appealing. “I’ve traveled some but not enough. The Watson Fellowship will help me see new places since I’ve been in the Southeast my whole life,” see Watson, page 3

What's behind Jamie Shelton’s smile?

CatCard expands off-campus trial period for local shops

By AMANDA STEPHENS Senior Staff Writer

Think CatCard money is only good for the Union Cafe and college bookstore? Guess again. Davidson CatCards are now accepted off-campus. While students have been able to pay for delivery from Joel’s restaurant and Domino’s Pizza with a CatCard for nearly three years, this is the first time that CatCards will be accepted on-site off-campus.

The SGA has been pushing for expanded CatCard access for the past several years. Until recently, legal technicalities have impeded the process. According to the law, business that is considered part of the life of a student is not subject to income tax. The Union Cafe and college bookstore, for example, are considered integral services that operate for the good of the student and are excluded from income tax. Because of their location off-campus, stores on Main Street did not meet certain student convenience standards necessary for tax exclusion.

Before Christmas break, Davidson’s tax consultants reexamined the policy and found that since Main Street stores are within walking distance of the campus, they do meet the standards of student convenience and are able to engage in business with Davidson College. In short, this new interpretation of the tax law permits some local businesses within a small radius to accept CatCards.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.Radius of the college to accept payments with CatCards. Accepting CatCards has both positive and negative implications for businesses on Main Street. On the positive side, stores accepting CatCards would have access to nearly $1 million of combined student deposits. SGA President Charles Washington ’04 also pointed out that because most students do not carry cash on them around campus, they are less likely to do business on Main Street. He reasons that being able to use a CatCard off-campus would give students more incentive to go straight from class to have a cup of coffee or to buy items at CVS. By making it more convenient for students to pay for things off-campus, Main Street could see a major increase in student business.

However, as Director of Auxiliary Services Richard Terry pointed out, Main Street businesses also have to consider the expenses involved in accepting CatCards. For example, each business would have to buy a CatCard reader, which can cost between $1200-$1400, a receipt printer (between $400-$500), a special phone line ($80 per month), and a slight commission for the accounting done at the College. According to an SGA survey conducted last semester, students would be most likely to use a CatCard at CVS and Summit Coffeehouse. High student interest has convinced the college to do a two-semester trial period of off-campus CatCard use, should participating businesses be willing.

Currently, both CVS and Summit are considering CatCard acceptance. Since CVS is a national chain store, securing CatCard acceptance requires permission from the corporate level. Because the University of Alabama already has a similar arrangement with CVS, Davidson has hope for CatCard acceptance. Should CVS gain permission to accept CatCards, the system could be up and running.

See CatCard, page 3

Visiting professor reads selections from her works
By BLevin SHELNUTT
Senior Staff Writer

On Monday evening, Susan Allport, Davidson’s 2003-2004 McGee Professor of Writing, read from three short pieces concerning the ways in which people from different parts of the world sustain their brains and bodies through food. Over eighty students, faculty, and community members attended the event. English professor Dr. Alan Parker introduced Allport and described her as “methodical and insightful: a careful reader of science, culture, and the body’s needs.” Parker also said that Allport’s nonfiction writing demonstrates “how science writing makes us both author and subject of the text.”

Allport first read from a short piece concerning the raw food movement, a trend becoming increasingly popular throughout the United States, especially in New York and California. Allport pointed out that although cooking food does remove nutrients and produces toxins, it also drastically increases the amount of carbohydrates the food contains. As carbohydrates are an essential component for creating energy and sustaining our bodies, a diet com-

See Allport, page 2

Photo by Dorsett Clark
McGee Professor of Writing Susan Allport delivers her lecture Tuesday on all things food.

SPORTS: Superstitions keep the wins coming

Get hooked-up with the latest on hook-ups. Aa, PAGES