4 _ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Survey, from page 1

“We won’t know for another twenty years,” Thornberry said.

In comparison to comparable liberal arts schools, especially those in the Northeast, Davidson has a much higher level of political diversity.

According to a survey compiled by Williams College’s student newspaper, the Williams Record, an overwhelming 78.4 percent of students intended to vote for Kerry, compared to only 13.6 percent for Bush and 5.6 percent undecided.

President Bobby Vagt said there are many advantages to having strong political diversity on campus.

However, he said that students should strive to avoid the “common tendency, at Davidson and in our society at large, to interact only with those whose opinions mimic our own.”

“I think the level and intensity of interaction is much more intense when there is difference in points of view,” Vagt said. “I also believe that stark differences force us to think more clearly about what we believe and why. We are not going to get by with the easy answer that we might if we lived in a group that is homogenous in its opinions.”

Skinner said that the survey results alone are only a superficial measure of political diversity on campus.

“Diversity is more than just balanced rations,” he said. “Having people with many different backgrounds and beliefs is important, but that cannot be represented in a three-way political party breakdown. There are important differences within these groups.”

Satisfied with the political discourse on campus, Bill Riggs ’05 said that the wide ideological spectrum of Davidson reflects the spirit of the liberal arts education.

“With a solid representation of Democrats and Republicans on campus, we are able to look at our country and the international community through several different lenses,” said Riggs.

High levels of activity among political groups on campus and organized events such as student debates and faculty panels exploring political issues have helped increase political discourse on campus.

“There are very articulate people on both sides,” Thornberry said. “Here at Davidson, to some degree, we listen to one another. In the nation as a whole, that isn’t happening right now and that is really hurting our country.”

“I think there has been a great growth in political dialogue among students on campus,” Lauren Martin ’05 said. “Events like the debates help keep the elections a high-profile topic.”

Other topics that the survey addressed included the war on Iraq, gay marriage, interest in current events, and general political knowledge.

According to the survey, 15 percent of students did not know how many four-year terms the President of the U.S. can serve.

Sixteen percent did not know which party has the most members in the House of Representatives.

Even more shocking, 44 percent of the student body answered the following question incorrectly: “In general, thinking about political parties in Washington, would you say that Democrats are more conservative than Republicans or Republicans are more conservative than Democrats?”

Dr. Pat Sellers, who conducted the survey with the students of his “Public Opinion” class, suggested that the reason for the large number of incorrect responses to the question might be that many Davidson students who don’t follow politics closely are simply most familiar with conservative Democrats or liberal Republicans.

“If you turned on the TV and saw Zell Miller speaking as a Democrat you might think all Democrats think like him,” said Sellers, referring to the conservative Democratic senator from Georgia who spoke at the Republican National Convention.

Yet overall Sellers was not upset by the political knowledge results.

“I don’t find it particularly troubling because Davidson students are generally well informed,” he said. “They just may know more about topics other than politics.”

However, other members of the administration and faculty were not as understanding of the political knowledge results.

“I am more than a bit stunned by the figures about political awareness,” Vagt said. “There’s no excuse, really. Each of us bears a responsibility to know what is going on around us, and not being aware of presidential term limits is one example of what all of us should know well,” Vagt said.

Riggs said that he thinks overall students are well informed politically.

He also cites the addition of cable to the dorm rooms has enabled students to have greater access to the main media outlets for up-to-the-minute news.

“Even still,” he said. “Many Davidson students are more concerned with the Red Sox winning the World Series.”

The survey was distributed to a random sampling of half the student body.

Approximately one fourth of the student body, 481 students, responded to the survey.

The margin of error for the survey was plus or minus 3.85 percent.

To elicit the most accurate and representative responses possible, the students in Sellers’ class used the same procedures that professional pollsters use in writing survey questions.

Although no survey can be perfect, Sellers said that the results of the survey do provide an accurate representation of Davidson’s student body.

202 South Main St. Davidson, NC.

704-892-0604