THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2004

BOOKSTORE

HALLOWEEN SALE

OCTOBER 29, 8:15 AM - 5 PM

25% OFF

CLOTHING, TRADEBOOKS & CANDY

HAPPY HALLOWEEN FROM

THE BOOKSTORE STAFF

Bookstore Hours

Sunday----Closed
Monday - Friday 8:15 am - 5 pm
Saturday----10 am - 1 pm

Parents, students enjoy
Family Weekend events

By BEN WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

Parents and loved ones came from all across the country for Family Weekend. With a wide variety of campus activities
being held, parents and students had plenty to do and see.

“It’s been nice just seeing the son and enjoying the weekend,” said George Park, father of Barrett Park ’06.

Beyond seeing his parents, Barrett cited “good food” as one of the biggest perks of Family Weekend.

Alana Calvin ’07 was excited to have her family come from Seattle. Her family watched her compete in Davidson Crew's
Fall Classic on Saturday.

“It’s been really great,” said Calvin. “I’ve missed them a lot.”

Family Weekend also allowed parents to see their child’s living habits.

“His room’s nice, but messy,” said Mary Anne Richardson, the mother of Matt Richardson ’07. “He’s in his element.”

Matt’s mother made clear, however, that he is “going to get a haircut.”

Katherine Henckler, mother of Sarah Henckler ’08, was pleasantly surprised with her daughter’s room.

“It’s in better shape than her room at home ever was,” she said.

Henckler traveled from New Jersey and brought her daughter a “huge suitcase” full of cold-weather essentials, which ranged from sweaters
to hot chocolate.

Among the weekend’s events were the presidential debate, several concerts, a play, and the annual International Festival.

At the International Festival, students with international backgrounds were given $50 stipends to purchase ethnic food, which they presented at
the festival.

This year’s festival drew an unusually large crowd.

“Usually there is a football game which draws away half the people, but this year there isn’t one,” said Davidson
International Association president Stella Kenyi ’05.

Still, the International Festival was far from the only attraction.

“I enjoyed the play production, the jazz band, the choral presentation and look forward to the debates this afternoon,” said
Betsy Davenport, mother of Sarah Madison Davenport ’07. “The students here inspire us all.”

Family Weekend benefits from a local effort by the Habitat of Our Towns, a chapter of Habitat for Humanity.

“The Habitat of Our Towns organizes home stays so that parents can stay with local families,” said Assistant Professor of
Mathematics Laurie Heyer.

The visiting parents only have to give a small donation to the Habitat of Our Towns and the overall cost
is far less than local motels.

Despite all the attractions on campus, the focus of Family Weekend remained the opportunity for families to get a peek
at their child’s life away from home.

Delia Loney, who traveled from Brooklyn, NY to see her daughter, Charisma Loney ’08, said “I have missed her, but
I know this is a place for her to experience another phase of her life.”

The Jameson family samples Israeli food at the International Festival.

Campus Police Blotter

10/23 Sports Fields

Property Loss

Student said that they lost their 35 mm camera at the field hockey game at 3 p.m. on October 23.
The camera is in a green case.

10/21 Chambers

Property Theft

Victim reported that between 2 and 3 p.m. on September 30, someone stole their silver Verizon wireless flip phone. They
left the phone on a desk in Chambers 3068, and when they returned a short time later, the phone was
gone. The phone is valued at $50.

10/20 Patterson Court

Property Theft

A Pi Kappa Alpha member said that two blue Dish Network receiver cards had been stolen out of the Pi
Kappa Alpha house. One card was located in the basement and the other in the dining hall. The cards were
last seen at 6 p.m. on October 19.
