_ ARTS

By SARAH ROBINSON
Arts & Living Editor

From the opening line of “war,” Timberlake Wertenbaker’s “The Love of the Nightingale” examines the effect of sexual violence in
Ancient Greece. Based on the myth “Procne and Philomel,” the play tells the story of two sisters seeking revenge against
the elder’s husband who rapes the younger. The play, directed by Assistant Professor Sharon Green, provides a modern interpretation of
the myth, bringing to mind comparisons with the present day.

I sat in on the first full run-through last Monday. With an understanding of the constant development of a production
during the last rehearsals, I was deeply impressed by the unity that the cast demonstrated throughout the evening. No Greek
play is without its chorus and the male chorus, Ryan Creighan ’07, Ryan Hastings ’05, and Athena Stevens ’06 provide
an amusing dialogue, introducing the setting of the show, while carefully pointing out the problems which silence can cause. It
would have been pleasing to see more of them in Act II, but Wertenbaker shifts their responsibility to the female
chorus, who are Procne’s companions in Thrace after she is married. Also of note, the two soldiers, Colin Smith ’06
and Will Kuchinski ’08, provide the show with comic relief. As the show progresses this comedic point of view becomes
another commentary on the actions of the three central characters.

As an ensemble, soft tones and blurred annunciation can be a weakness at certain points, but they succeed in creating
interesting characters throughout Act II. Seeing more character development would help the play’s beginning, a time when it is most
critical to ensnare the audience. Throughout the first half of Act I, the tempo could slow a bit, as the
actors seemed to be getting ahold of their characters. By the time Philomel has headed to Thrace, these problems have
gone away.

Of the ensemble, an important commentator of events is the nurse, Niobe, played by Kayce Thompson ’05. Niobe holds the
stage as a wizened woman who has survived the hostile takeover of her homeland by the Athenian army. Thompson brings
a refreshing clarity to the show as her blunt monologues explore the role of witnesses in crime, trying to convince
Philomel that sexual violence is the way of the world.

In lead roles are Lisa Burr ’05 as Procne, Pete Schild ’08 as Tereus, and Hanley Smith ’07 as Philomel.
Together, the three share chemistry, which is clearly strongest between Smith and Burr. Burr gives Procne a mature edge, which
does not display any nervousness over her arranged marriage. However, as we see her in Act II, I liked the
whimsical side she introduces as Procne spends more time in Thrace. Her transformation highlights the differences associated between Thrace, a
sport-oriented society, and her homeland Athens, a city of philosophers. Smith opens the show with the enthusiasm of a young
girl in love with life. She has fun with her character as Philomel dreams of being married. She approaches the
challenge of acting without words well and the party scene, in which she reveals her fate to her sister, may
be one of the most gripping moments of the show. Schild brings depth to the stage as he sees his
life crumble before him. As the villain Tereus, Schild has the challenge of appearing strong, while being weak at heart.
He seems to have trouble with this dualism at points, but his little boy tantrums show Tereus as a military
man, and one who cannot allow a woman to speak her mind.

The set, designed by Professor Joe Gardner ’69, compliments the show with its striking simplicity. The arches dominate the set,
covered in prickly vines, drawing a stark comparison to the intrusion of sexual violence.

“The Love of the Nightingale” runs Oct. 20-21 at 7:30 p.m., Oct. 22-23 at 8 p.m., and Oct. 24 at
2 p.m. in Duke Family Performance Hall. Tickets are $12 for adults, $8 for faculty and staff, and $6 for
students.

Online Facebook attracts scads of students: good or bad?

By Katie HUNTER
Staff Writer

“Are you on it?” The question has been heard so often around campus the past few weeks that it’s lost
virtually all ambiguity; everyone who’s anyone knows about the new online hot spot for Davidson students. Rivaling the popped-collar fad
in popularity on campus, “TheFacebook.com” has become the new social scene for those wishing to virtually connect with friends and
acquaintances. Able to access all available pictures and profiles on the site, students are now only a mouse-click away from
fellow college students across the hall and across the country. Davidson was addedOn October 9, Davidson College was added to
TheFacebook’s list of participating schools, becoming one of over 150 colleges now connected to the ever-expanding network. The tally of
Facebookers from Davidson has grown exponentially in the past couple of weeks, now surpassing the 800-member mark. With nearly half
of students participating, the “Facebook Phenomenon” seems to have overtaken the inboxes, and in some cases the lives, of many
Davidsonians.

Mike Parsons ’08, a major Facebook enthusiast, sums up his perception of TheFacebook fanaticism with just a few words. “I
guess the best way to explain it all is just to say this: it is an obsession.” Sandy Salazar ’06
agrees, stating that “TheFacebook is addictive. I knew it would be a bad idea to join this week because I
had so many tests to study for,” she says, “but I went ahead and did it anyway.”

Joining requires only a login name and password, but most students choose to provide a small portrait and general biographic
information in their custom-made profile. TheFacebook also features a formatted profile system, where students can answer questions about anything from
political affiliation to potential relationship interests. After a student submits all of their information, TheFacebook sets up an individual account,
which can then be accessed by thousands of other connected students across the country. A student can provide as much
information about themselves as they desire, which makes TheFacebook adaptable to the social inclinations of any connected individual. Many students
choose to include their contact information both at home and at school, in hopes that they can get in touch
with acquaintances and friends more easily.

Fountain Walker, Davidson’s campus chief of police, has a few words of advice for these eager participants. “I’d be very
leery about sharing certain information on the web,” cautions Walker. “Anything that is man-made can be tampered with, and there
is always an opportunity for something bad to happen.” Walker essentially warns against giving out one’s phone number and address
on a public profile, because “it is difficult to know the extent that a stranger out there would go to
get into contact with you.” Lizzie Tiernan ’08 agrees, stating that TheFacebook has the potential to be a “stalker’s heaven.”
Though Walker understands that “giving young people an opportunity to communicate is good,” in a Facebook-type forum, his bottom line
is “take steps and be cautious about it.”

Some students have chosen to avoid the “Facebook frenzy,” citing anything from privacy reasons to their tendency to avoid trends.
Daniel Van Oudenaren ’08 says that it “seems like a waste of time” to start and keep up a personal
Facebook profile, a statement that many students seem to agree with. As Graham Jaenicke ’07 puts it, “you get all
these ‘friends,’ and then what do you do with them?”

Jaenicke’s reference to “Facebook friends” touches on the foundation of TheFacebook’s popularity. When someone joins TheFacebook, they are given the
chance to add other members to their Friend List, which enables them to have their friend’s profiles readily accessible from
their own account. However, one person’s concept of Facebook “friendship” often differs from another's, as Parsons readily admits. “I become
friends with people in real life so I can friend them on TheFacebook,” he states, “and friend people on TheFacebook
in the vain hope that I’ll meet them in real life and be able to justify myself.”

Students on TheFacebook are given the opportunity to accept or reject being an addition to a friend list, which allows
for some choice in the matter of whom one does or doesn’t associate with. Other Facebook features include groups and
networks that members can be a part of, which offers some variety in how people connect and keep in touch
on the site. Parsons and a few other Davidson students took the initiative in starting their own themed Facebook groups,
which range from Young Democrats to the “Family Guy Festigios.” Parsons also started the Coalition Against Popped Collars group that
now boasts 115 members, taking an ironic jab at a trend that has caught on quickly around campus.

No matter the perspective, Davidson’s “fascination with TheFacebook” is an obvious reality, whether or not one chooses to sign up.
Ashley Cramer ’08, an avid Facebook member, can find both the positive and negative aspects in her decision to join.
“I like connecting with friends, especially those that I haven’t seen in a long time,” she says, “but I don’t
like the amount of time that I feel I waste on it.” Parsons recommends keeping in mind what she terms
the “Paradox of Online Popularity” when it comes to using TheFacebook. “Keep your list of friends confined to a certain
range,” he says, “and you should be fine.”
