10

Staff Editorial

Encouraging public art at Davidson

While Davidson College has made a significant effort over the years to expand and enhance its arts program, most notably
with the building of the VAC over ten years ago, the College’s commitment to student art outside those academic walls
has thus far been rather limited.

However, every once in a while a Davidson student creates a work of public art that goes to highlight the
exceptional artistic talent present in our student body.

This week the Residence Life Office decided not to paint over a work of public student art, a complete transcription
of Virginia Woolf’s “A Room of One’s Own” that covers the walls of a storage room in Little residence hall.

There are certainly few if any reasons why RLO would need to paint over this work given its location in
an unused storage room, and we applaud RLO for changing their minds and deciding to keep this work of art
for all students to enjoy, hopefully for years to come.

Yet now that RLO has made the decision to keep this work of art, it is up to Davidson students,
both current and future, to take advantage and actually go examine this work for themselves.

RLO’s decision only goes to highlight the fact that Davidson currently lacks many works of public art for students, faculty,
and the rest of the community to enjoy.

Although student performances and exhibitions are usually popular and well attended, public displays of art, both by students and professionals,
are too often confined to the VAC and the College Union.

This decision should encourage students to use more public spaces to display their art.

After all, how often do most overburdened Davidson students venture across the street to the VAC to take in a
student exhibition or admire some of the College’s own vast collection of art?

Placing more student art in public spaces around campus would be an easy way to make the student body at
Davidson more aware of the artistic talents of their classmates and could entice more students who might never consider taking
an arts course to take an interest in the visual arts.

After all, isn’t a liberal arts education supposed to expose us to topics that we might not otherwise think of
pursuing?

RLO’s decision to keep this work of art is a sign that the administration is willing to bend its normal
policies in order to allow public displays of student art. Hopefully, more students will now be encouraged to undertake public
art projects in less traditional spaces.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
-David Crow
Managing Editors
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
News Editors
Ruchi Turakhia & Sarah-Grace Wesley
Perspectives Editor
Zach Williams
Arts & Living Editors
Cannon Hodge & Sarah Robinson
Yow! Editor
Colin Eagan
Peter Allison & Mike Giglio
Photography Editors
Dorsett Clark & Ryan Thompson
Nick Horton
Circulation & Advertising Managers
Laura Filosa

PERSPECTIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
April 21, 2004

Patent Sweater Ali Fitzgerald
LAY OFF,
I'M AT MY LITERARY
BOOK SIGNING.
No WAY.
MOVE OVER.
I THOUGHT
THE TRI-CORNERED
HAT WAS A
FASHION STATEMENT.

Looking back on the t-shirt debate

I would like to thank you for your inquisitive reporting regarding Sanctuary’s sweat-free t-shirt project. As a member of Sanctuary,
I appreciated the new perspective that you gave the issue by looking at the question with due sympathy to both
sides, the women in Nicaragua as well as the local employees at Davidson Screen Printers.

However, as I read both the news article and the staff editorial which concerned our project, I was confused as
to why our proposal would truly put the Screen Printers’ business at risk. Our suggestion is simply that the shirts
be purchased from the Nueva Vida Co-op, and then sent to Davidson Screen Printers where they would be printed for
campus groups just as they have been before. If it is indeed the purchase of the actual t-shirts on which
this business depends and not the printing over those t-shirts, then it is more clear why our proposal threatens their
enterprise. This was never the intention of our group; it was simply a result of not investigating the issue to
the depth that it deserved.

Therefore, Sanctuary will be happy to pursue a more rigorous investigation, including speaking to Mr. Hageman, the owner of Davidson
Screen Printers, to ensure that a compromise can be met. Perhaps he will be willing to accept our proposal to
support Nueva Vida as his own supplier, for at least some of his inventory. If he does so, it would
be even easier for our campus to choose to support the lives of those women and the development of their
community. But he would only support this project if students continue to request that he does so; therefore it is
still a responsibility of our campus to further discuss the issue and to remember the vast influence our purchases can
make.

Nicole Mader ‘06

DAY THE CAGLE State .com

Wanna See ‘em FREE? Wanna HUG?
Yes, You're?
SIT, Come Now Sit
GOOD DOG.
ROLL OVER.
Good Dog.
