THE DAVIDSONIAN
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2004

Joey Bass ’05 and the ’Cats were unable to keep momentum as they dropped two matches.

By BRIAN HELFRICH
Senior Staff Writer

The Davidson men’s soccer team continued their roller-coaster season this past week with two more losses, bringing their disappointing record
to 7-9-1. After extending their season-high five-game unbeaten streak with a win at home against Elon last Tuesday night, Davidson
dropped an overtime conference battle at Appalachian State and a hard-fought contest against No. 9 Wake Forest this Tuesday.

Last Saturday afternoon, Davidson traveled north to Boone for a crucial match against Appalachian State. After falling down 1-0 just
11 minutes into the game, the Wildcats had to once again play catch-up, a common theme to this year’s season.
Davidson outshot and outplayed the host Mountaineers, and early in the second half, Freshman Robby Hoak ’08 tallied his second
goal of the season to knot the score at one goal apiece. For the fifth straight contest, the Cats would
need overtime to decide the outcome. Davidson had their fourth straight overtime victory in their grasp when David Sartorio ’06
stepped to the line for a penalty kick. The Appalachian State goalkeeper, however, made a stunning save on a well-placed
shot, and followed that up with a diving save on a Marco Antunez ’07 header. The Mountaineers carried the momentum
down to the other end of the field and put a dagger into the Wildcat season by heading home the
game winner near the end of the first overtime session.

The Wildcats did not stay down for long, however, and they hosted one of the finest teams in the nation,
Wake Forest, on Tuesday night. A season-high crowd of students, alumni, par-

X-Country disappoints at SoCon meet

By PIERCE TRUMBO
Staff Writer

This past Saturday was a bit disappointing for the Davidson cross country teams. The women finished third in their 5K
race and the men finished sixth out of eleven teams in their 8K competition. Both are respectable places, but the
teams were looking for more.

Kelly Fillnow ’05, as she has done all season, led the way for the women. She placed 7th overall with
a time of 18:38. She was followed by eleventh place Brittany Crawford ’08 and twenty-fourth place Anna Brew ’05, with
times of 19:10 and 19:45 respectively. Annie O’Donnell ’08 came in fourth place for the team with a time of
19:50 (26th). Ashley Griffith ’05 completed the top-five, placing 34th overall with a time of 20:09.

The women had several injuries in the weeks before the race which likely hurt the Wildcats’ chances at the conference
championship. Said Fillnow, “We were pretty beat up.” Among the injured were Brew with a troublesome foot and Sally Stanhope
’05 with a stress fracture. Brew was unable to train in the three weeks preceding the SoCon Championship because of
her injury. According to Fillnow, one of the Wildcats’ goals in the race was to break up UT Chattanooga’s pack
of runners at the top, but the Wildcats were unable to hang with the Mocs. Chattanooga runners placed first, second,
and third in the race, all but assuring Chattanooga’s conference victory. Brew said, “No one had a complete race...It left
a lot of people hungry to run a lot better.”

The men were led by Jonathan Baker ’06, who ran the course in 26:53 and placed eighteenth overall. Coach Gary
Andrew said that Baker “ran the second fastest time ever by a Davidson runner on Furman’s 8K course.” Sam Morris
’08, competing in his first SoCon Championship, finished second for the men, placing 31st with atime of 27:38. Filling out
the rest of the top five were Nick Lehman ’05 in 34th place (27:46), Austin Mercadante ’06 in 39th place
(28:11), and Douglas Noreen ’07, who clocked in at 28:25 in 49th place. Coach Andrew said, “We knew going into
the meet that we could finish anywhere from fourth to sixth...We also knew

see X-Country, page 15

Parents, and other supporters witnessed a memorable dedication of 1992 Team Field and Alumni Stadium. The first half consisted of
up and down play, and a few great saves by Bart Creasman ’05 helped keep the game scoreless at the
midway point. The second half provided more great play for the crowd to watch, but unfortunately for Wildcat fans, the
Demon Deacons got on the board first. A lapse in the Davidson defense allowed a Wake Forest counterattack and they
capitalized, taking a 1-0 lead. The ’Cats kept battling as they have all season, however, and gained more momentum with
each minute that the game stayed in reach. Creasman stopped a Scott Sealy penalty kick and sent the crowd into
pandemonium. Building off the game-changing save, Davidson started knocking on the Wake Forest door. Sealy again got room to run
on another counterattack, however, and made the Wildcats pay, as he snuck the ball to the back post where a
fellow Demon Deacon easily finished it off for a commanding 2-0 lead. The ’Cats battled back furiously, however, not wanting
to go quietly on this memorable evening. Hoak got fouled inside of the penalty area and proceeded to bury the
free kick to halve the lead. The goal was the first that Wake Forest had surrendered in over 500 minutes
of play. Davidson continued to fire away at the Deacon goal, and Cass Baltz ’07 had a left-footed shot denied
by a sprawling Wake Forest goalie, but time ran out on the outstanding effort and the Wildcats dropped their second
straight match.

“It’s unfortunate our guys couldn’t get a win tonight on this special occasion,” Davidson alumnus Tim Helfrich ’00 said. “It
was certainly a great effort against one of the nation’s top teams—we tackled hard in the second half and played
effective two-touch soccer that created great goal-scoring opportunities. Hopefully we can parlay this big game experience into a successful Southern
Conference Tournament.”

Davidson hosts Georgia Southern in their final regular season contest this Sunday at 1:30 p.m. The game is crucial for
placement in the conference tournament and will also be Senior Day for the Wildcats.

Let the games begin...

Field Hockey hosts the NorPac Tournament Nov. 4-6. See page 15 for preview.

Player of the Week
Robbie Hoak ’08
Soccer
Hometown: Atlanta, Georgia
Major: Undeclared

Wake Forest built a 2-0 lead against the Wildcats with a goal in the 73rd minute and the game appeared
out of reach for Davidson until freshman Robbie Hoak ’08 streaked into the box and was fouled by a Demon
Deacon player. Hoak nailed the penalty kick opportunity for his third goal of the year.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Crew comes through

The varsity women raced in Boston, MA at Head of the Charles, which is the largest regatta in the nation.
They placed 36th with a time of 16:59.283. The men and novice teams hosted the annual Davidson Fall Classic the
same day (Saturday the 23rd of October) and raced against Wake Forest and University of South Carolina. The varsity men
won with a time of 19:42.68, the lightweight men placed 2nd with a time of 20:34.05, the novice women's A
boat won and the novice men's B boat placed third.
