_ ARTS

Album Review

Wilco's ‘Yankee Hotel Foxtrot’ a brilliant synthesis

By Andy Heston
Staff Writer

If you’re anything like me, you’ve spent quite a bit of time with Wilco’s latest album, “Yankee Hotel Foxtrot.” Perhaps
the most brilliant thing about this album was its ability to be all things to all people, accessible enough to
put on at a party but experimental enough to keep listening to long after the songs themselves wore out their
welcome. It was, essentially, a brilliant synthesis: frontman Jeff Tweedy’s bittersweet pop sensibilities dovetailed beautifully into producer Jim O’Rourke’s sonic
mischief, and the net result was one of the landmark indie albums of the last five years. To put it
simply, everything about “Yankee Hotel Foxtrot” is just about perfect: lyrics, production, songs, everything.

Unfortunately, the only thing that can follow perfection is descent. Following the 2002 release of “Yankee Hotel Foxtrot,” Tweedy was
on top of the world; just last April, he was in rehab, suffering from an addiction to prescription painkillers. To
put it bluntly, between “Yankee Hotel Foxtrot” and Wilco’s latest release “A Ghost is Born,” there’s a lot of pain.
And the record shows it. “Yankee Hotel Foxtrot,” especially on songs like “War on War,” sounds like a singalong; “A
Ghost is Born” sounds like a breakdown. Tweedy’s lyrics have grown more cryptic and the songs messier, but the emotional
effect of the album is apparent even on the first listen.

“Yankee Hotel Foxtrot” was a narrative, with rises and falls, joke songs next to utter self-loathing; right next to the
rock pastiche of “Heavy Metal Drummer,” you have the broken patriotism of “Ashes of American Flags,” as mixed a collection
of songs as any Tweedy’s produced. With “A Ghost is Born,” even the poppier songs, like the Kinks-y “Hummingbird,” descend
into noisy guitar fallouts; the album begins in pain and never really escapes it. “A Ghost is Born,” then, fits
into the long tradition of the beautifully pained breakdown. Tweedy channels the Neil Young school of self-destructive guitar catharsis, stretching
out in solos that begin as coherent musical statements and fall apart into spiked fragments of noise. Nowhere is this
more apparent than on the opener “At Least That’s What You Said,” as Tweedy strangles the strings of his instrument
over a classic rock background. It’s extremely powerful, to see someone once so articulate lose his voice and suffer so
much that only raw noise can convey his anguish and confusion.

As a foil to Tweedy’s guitar exorcisms, indie rock overachiever Jim O’Rourke has taken on a more integrated role with
the band: in addition to his solo work and a full-time job in Sonic Youth, O’Rourke has produced the last
two Wilco albums, and though his electronic freakouts on “Yankee Hotel Foxtrot” were typically limited to the last minute of
the songs, here O’Rourke is as much a part of the album’s sound as Tweedy. In particular, it’s O’Rourke that
comes to the fore on “Less Than You Think,” which begins as a quiet piano ballad but soon becomes a
fifteen-minute ambient exploration. This is as much O’Rourke’s record as Tweedy’s.

I have to concede that “Yankee Hotel Foxtrot” is the better album. But “A Ghost is Born” is probably the
more interesting of the two: I feel almost as if I have to figure it out; that it’s a puzzle
to be solved rather than something to idolize the way “Yankee Hotel Foxtrot” was. It’s not perfect, but that’s what
makes it continue to fascinate me.

By Katie Hunter
Staff Writer

Wine? Togas? Plate-breaking? Though it might sound like the long-awaited reunion of “Animal House,” the 27th Annual Yiasou Greek Festival
in Charlotte promises to be anything but. A favorite of local citizens, indicated by its distinction as the Best Ethnic
Festival of 2000 in Charlotte by Creative Loafing Magazine, the event popularly known as “The Greek Fest” will return this
year.from September 9-12 with many new offerings in store. Yiasou Greek Festival takes place at the Holy Trinity Greek Orthodox
Cathedral on 600 East Boulevard. The festival’s website highlights the Yiasou Greek Festival will be held September 9th-12th, featuring the
“Agora” open-air gift and jewelry market and a Greek cultural exhibit. Claimed as one of the “largest privately owned collections”
featuring art, artifacts, and even wedding memorabilia of both early and modern Greece, the display should prove to be enticing
to many of our Davidson Classics majors and Mediterranean enthusiasts.

“My original attraction to Greece was for the amazing antiquities that exist there, but I also found the culture to
be fascinating,” Chris Knowles ’05 said of his recent Classics Trip abroad. When asked about some of those interesting cultural
aspects, Knowles mentioned the “hospitable nature of the people,” as well as teenagers’ tendencies to “dance around in circles and
drink ouzo” for fun.

Though visual exhibitions are definitely useful tools for those interested in Greek life, there is truly no better way to
celebrate the culture than to partake in a big fat helping of Greek fare. An expected 65,000 visitors to the
Greek Fest will certainly encounter no shortage over the four-day course of the event. Festival organizers plan to once again
provide food stands and a novel outdoor “carry-out” booth with drive-up service at the corners of East Boulevard and Winthrop
Avenue.

Several of the dine-in venues will offer traditional Greek eats, including the ever-popular roasted lamb, Grecian-style pizza, and mouth-watering gyro
wraps. Those willing to take a walk on the culinary wild side will not be disappointed, as the festival plans
to once again feature baklava sundaes and loukoumades. “Essentially, they are the Greek version of a donut,” said Gloria Patolous,
longtime publicity coordinator for the festival, when asked about the loukoumades. “Dough is dipped in syrup and then fried,” she
explained, “making them a major draw every year.”

Those with a desire to make their own Greek delectables will have the opportunity to shop at the festival’s “Bakaliko”
Grocery Store, where Kalamata olives, fine cheeses, and other goodies will be sold. It is no wonder that local festival-goer
and former Davidson father Ange Vhamikos, when asked about the biggest draw of the Annual Greek Fest, immediately replied “the
food.”

The festival’s wine-tasting booth will provide some perfect palate cleansers for the after-dinner crowd—likely to be composed of eager college
students—and will prepare the way for a variety of Greek entertainment offered throughout the course of the nights. Live performances
by Kosta Kastanis and George Skaroulis, the latter an award-winning piano composer, will be featured this year. The Holy Trinity
youth dance troupe will also perform on multiple stages during the late afternoons and evenings of the festival’s duration. Donning
traditional costumes, the youth dancers will also represent the religious aspect of Greek life, centered around the Orthodox Church.

Festival-goers will also have the chance to get a dose of traditional Greek religion with the Byzantine tours, which include
the viewing of spectacular iconography of the Greek Orthodox Cathedral. Such an opportunity would definitely provide Davidson students with the
chance to improve their understanding of Greek culture, which is also especially “proud and family-oriented.” Patolous emphasized the importance of
Greek tradition and history when discussing the lives of Greek teenagers, explaining that “most take great pride in their culture,
which they know that both math and democracy arose from.”

The Yiasou Festival promises to hold true to this traditional giving spirit by offering the best of Greece to the
North Carolina masses yet again. For the $2 admission fee, it promises to be a bargain. With “Greek dancing, food,
history, and music,” said Patolous, “there will be a little bit of everything.”
