THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Denver downs lacrosse with late comeback
Frank ’05 nearly broke the school record with seven goals.
By KATHERINE SWAIN
Staff Writer

The lacrosse team left last Thursday for a three-day road trip to play non-conference opponents George Washington University and University of Denver. On Friday afternoon, the ’Cats played on GW’s home field, losing 17-6 to the Colonials. Then on Sunday, Davidson traveled to College Park, Maryland, to play Denver, with the Pioneers taking a slim 11-10 victory over the Cats. Davidson is currently 2-7 overall and 0-3 in conference play.

The ’Cats struggled offensively against GW, and although Eloise Grose ’06 scored three goals, they could not fight off the Colonials. GW’s Lauren Bower scored five goals, and Jamie Lee and Laura Hostetler tallied three apiece, creating a large gap for the ’Cats to overcome. The Colonials led 2-1 when they went on a scoring rant, notching eleven consecutive goals with 21:06 remaining on the clock in the first half. At half time, George Washington held a 24-3 shot advantage over Davidson. Goalie Becca Nussbaum ’04 had fifteen saves in the match-up, but GW ended with a 39-12 shot-on-goal advantage. The loss was a frustrating one for Davidson, as last season GW won in overtime on Davidson’s home turf.

The ’Cats took on Denver away from either team’s home field. Denver is on their spring break and has traveled throughout the east coast playing teams this week. The tremendous efforts of Lindsay Frank ’05 were not enough for the ’Cats, with Denver scoring the final goal in the match-up with 1:30 left in the second half. Although Davidson controlled the following draw, they were unable to even the score. Frank almost broke the Davidson school record, scoring seven goals in the contest. Frank scored five of Davidson’s first six goals, creating a 6-1 lead with seven minutes remaining in the first half. The Pioneers came back, netting two more goals before the end of the half.

Denver started off the scoring in the second half, cutting the Davidson lead to just two. Whitney Deifendorf ’05 quickly responded, scoring off a feed from Molly Pickall ’05. Frank tallied her sixth goal of the contest to push the Davidson lead to 8-4 with twenty minutes left. The Pioneers responded by netting three consecutive goals, making the score 8-7. Frank then notched her final goal of the contest. Denver went on to score two more, clinching the tie at 9-9 with under seven minutes left in the game. Davidson asserted their lead with Millie McKeachie ’05 scoring off a feed from Frank. The Pioneers would not relent, however, with Denver’s Patience Brown scoring the final two goals, edging out the ’Cats 11-10.

Defensively, the ’Cats held strong, with Nussbaum making eleven saves on the day, including eight in the second half. Erin Morris ’06 created two Denver turnovers to lead the Wildcats in defensive play. The ’Cats look forward to their next match-up on Friday, under the lights, playing St. Francis (PA) at 7 p.m. on the Mary Belk Turf Facility. McKeachie ’05, a midfielder, is captain of the lacrosse team.

From Benchwarmers, page 12

Where’s Joy Hamm when you need her?! Don’t get the wrong idea, though. Not everyone on this campus feels the need to run up the score faster than Union Cafe Deli prices. “Not all our opponents were cold-hearted and cruel individuals,” said Bahls (pronounced, in case you were wondering, Bales). “Two teams were kind enough to take a forfeit instead of subjecting us to yet another hour of shame and defeat.”

Why might any team pass up a seemingly easy win? Well, it’s probably because these are some of the spunkiest and feistiest girls you will come across. They come to games in high spirits, and this appearance intimidates such insecure opponents. Physical intimidation might also come into play. “Were the other teams better than us at basketball? You better believe it. But we could take any team in a fist fight,” said Lisa Collett, whose new nose stud intimidates even her own father. “They don’t call her Katie ‘Muhammad Ali’ Fitzpatrick for nothing.”

Luckily, the Benchwarmers don’t rate games based on “the meaningless statistic” of wins and losses. It all goes back to points. Why might one game be better than another? Because this one goes to eleven! But don’t let the utter cheerfulness of these happy few overshadow the real problem at hand. Intramural basketball is meant to be fun. Playing to win is one thing, but taking your sexual frustration, grade deflation, and every bit of social anxiety out on unsuspecting opponents is shallow and unlike the typical Davidson style.

Collett’s account of their tournament elimination game summarizes the season. “We knew that if we lost that game, it was over,” said Collett, as if recounting a war story. “We held them 2-0 for the first 15 seconds, but then our defense broke down, and we never quite recovered. We almost pulled out a win, but they edged us out with a narrow 16-52 win. We’ll get ’em next year.” That’s right. Mark your calendars. The Benchwarmers will be back.

Women’s tennis heads West for Spring Break, goes 3-2
ByErik SWANSON Senior Staff Writer

In what has been a yearly tradition, the women’s tennis team spent their spring break traveling and playing against teams they normally would not have the opportunity to play. After previous destinations such as Coastal South Carolina and Florida, this year the team traded in its bus pass for round-trip plane tickets to San Francisco, where they played a grueling schedule of five matches in five days.

The trip got off to a rocky start, as far as travel and tennis were concerned, but the women got stronger every day—so much so that head coach at number five and Katherine Hatch ’04 at number six managed to win for the ’Cats, leaving the final score at 5-2 in favor of the hosts.

The Wildcats rebounded quickly on Tuesday afternoon against a Division-II San Francisco State Gator team that offered little resistance. Davidson dominated every match for a 9-0 sweep of the Gators, losing a total of only 16 games through both the singles and doubles competitions.

The ’Cats carried the momentum from Tuesday’s win into Wednesday’s matchup with the Santa Clara Broncos, gaining an early advantage with victories from Meggie Patterson ’05 and Lindsey Powel ’06 (#2) and Hatch and Sarah Caroline Price. They wanted to stick around for another week and another five matches by the end of the trip to finish with a 3-2 record against several solid west coast teams.

After fighting through I-77 traffic on an icy Saturday morning, the women finally reached the airport, only to discover that they had missed their flight. They arrived in San Francisco much later than they had planned, forcing the team to miss their Saturday afternoon practice session and making them unable to secure courts on Sunday to prepare for their first match on Monday afternoon against The University of the Pacific Tigers.

The Tigers proved to be too tough an opponent for a Davidson team that was unable to work out its kinks on the practice courts following the cross-country travel. The Pacific team—now boasting an overall 9-2 record with losses only to top-30 teams—jumped on top of the Wildcats quickly, earning victories at one and two doubles for the early lead. The Tigers continued to control the match in the singles competition, as only Kate Levitt ’07 at number five and Katherine Hatch ’04 at number six managed to win for the ’Cats, leaving the final score at 5-2 in favor of the hosts.

Against the St. Mary’s Gaels on Thursday evening, Davidson began the match in the same fashion as the day before, winning the two and three slots in doubles to secure the 1-0 advantage. The Wildcats refused to suffer the same singles fate two days in a row, storming out of the gates to win the first five singles matches in straight sets. Only Hatch was unable to close out her opponent, losing 5-7, 6-0, 5-7 at the sixth position in what would prove to be the only blemish on her resume for the entire trip. The match finished under the lights with chimes from a nearby chapel echoing off the rolling hills surrounding the courts, a perfect setting in which to recover from Wednesday’s heartbreaking loss.

Friday evening featured the final installment of the ’Cats’ California tour, with Davidson taking on the University of San Francisco Dons. The Wildcats once again started off strongly, winning all three doubles matches this time for the early lead. In the singles competition, Patterson, Powel, Levitt, and Hatch won tough matches at the two, four, five, and six positions, respectively, earning the ’Cats a 5-2 victory.

Many players turned in impressive performances over the five intense days of tennis competition. In doubles, Patterson and Powel completed the week with a 4-1 record at the number two slot, while Hatch and Borkowski finished with an undefeated 5-0 record at number three. “I felt really good about our doubles,” commented Price. “We’re playing some of the best doubles we’ve ever played.” Patterson and Hatch experienced similar success in singles and were joined by Levitt as owners of the best singles records on the week for the ’Cats at 4-1.

Price praised the leadership of the team captain, Hatch: “She played awesome. Her senior leadership and mental toughness were great for the team.”

The trip was a great experience for the women, both on the court and off. With morning excursions to Chinatown, Alcatraz, and other locations, and afternoon matches set in pristine rolling hills and parks, the women experienced more than just the five tennis matches. “We got to play ball for five days, see the city, and live it fully,” Price recalled.

The Wildcats’ record now stands at 7-6 on the season with only today’s home match against South Carolina State remaining before the commencement of the conference season. The conference is as deep as it has ever been, according to Price, but she feels the team is “well-positioned to enter the conference season.”