THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘What I Saw Today,’ inspired by the sky as seen from under a tree.

Arts & LIVING

The gospel according to Lifetime

Expressions of nature: what an artist views

By ANNA Lauzon
Staff Writer

Martha Hunt’s senior art exhibit is the culmination of her work at Davidson and represents a semester of productive experimentation.
While Hunt’s earliest formal lessons were at Davidson, she has not forgotten her earliest dabblings in watercolor as a child
or her introduction to acrylic paint in college. Although Hunt enjoys transparency and often includes large open spaces in her
works, in her latest watercolors and drawings, she layers geometric lines with swirling organic shapes. Juxtaposing black ink with vivid
colors, Hunt combines drawing with painting to create energetic, aesthetically appealing works. Though her colorful designs expand into a nebulous
atmosphere, she anchors them with dark geometric lines.

Her inspiration? Nature. The sky, the ocean, geometry. Hunt explains her art in terms of her career aspirations. At one
point, she hoped to become a meteorologist; at others, a mathematician, a scuba diver, and an ice skater. While she
does not have any paintings of ice skates, her paintings do reflect her other interests. In one of her acrylic
paintings, bright white splotches and green tendrils suggest light coming through seaweed or stars viewed through branches. Inspired while admiring
an evening sky from under a tree, Hunt painted that acrylic work, as well as others, based on her experience
observing nature. Recognizing the parallels between the forms and shapes of the microscopic world and those of the cosmos, Hunt
reduces the universes’ microcosms and macrocosms to expressive lines, squiggles, and shapes. Viewers stand as before Hunt’s cells and solar
systems to admire the works of an artist capable of employing the perspective of both a telescope and a microscope.
She collapses those worlds, suggesting how interrelated they are.

In one work only, Hunt includes text: “now what the devil is that supposed to mean.” She says that that
work, with its two round ink forms surrounded by colorful halos, is a parody of herself. In the painting, she
acknowledges that academic art sometimes bewilders audiences. (She works in the VAC gallery and eavesdrops on visitors frustrated by works
they don’t understand). As an artist, Hunt attempts to separate her paintings from the alienating, indecipherable images found in many
artists’ works. She challenges herself to create meaningful works with visual appeal. Just as nature’s beauty soothes, and its power
gives people a sense of wonder, Hunt’s paintings use color and organic forms to engage viewers, allowing them to appreciate
the sophisticated universes represented in her works.

Hunt’s senior show, which she enthusiastically refers to as “icing on the cake,” offers sweet moments of thoughtful contemplation and
pleasant surprises for those familiar with the works in her previous show, which was at the Union. Altering and developing
her style, this Davidson artist has filled white spaces with substance. Though her works are not transparent, they appeal to
viewers with apparent simplicity. Yet their complex, interwoven layers of translucent watercolor and opaque ink draw viewers in for a
closer look. The exhibit opens on Saturday, Apr. 3, with a reception from 12-4 p.m. The show runs Apr. 3-8
in the VAC and is part of the Senior Visual Art Exhibitions.

By Hannau NOoLi
Special Contributor

What is it about a Lifetime movie that keeps our eyes fixed so tight to the screen that we put
our busy lives on hold for two hours (minus commercials) or four hours (during a weeknight double feature)? It’s as
if Marcia Gay Harden and Shannen Doherty inTheir unforgettable performances (most recently in “She’s Too Young” and “Friends Til the
End,” respectively) reveal the world to us through a sort of melodramatic beauty that transcends all other television programs (even
“Critter-Cam” and “Shipmates”). They are our deities and their message touches each and every one of us intellectually, emotionally, and
most surprisingly, spiritually. Who hasn’t dealt with husbands who cheat with babysitters like in “Baby Monitor: Sound of Fear”? Or
who, pray tell me, didn’t learn an important lesson from “Are You Lonesome Tonight?” about the potential danger of obsessive
phone sex operators? Don't underestimate the educational/spiritual power of television docudrama. Maybe these problems seem extreme... but the beauty of
the Lifetime movie is that all of our problems (small, large, or in-between) can be extracted from this mother of
a melodrama. Lifetime movies are a microcosm for greater humanity! They tap the root of human emotion: fear, betrayal, love,
disappointment, deceit... they pit mother against daughter, and Tori Spelling against Ivan Sergei (like in “Mother, May I Sleep with
Danger?”). Take a Lifetime movie, watch it, enjoy it, boil it down, what do you find? Your life on Channel
30 from 8 to 10 p.m. These works pose more questions than answers and leave the viewer with more philosophical
fodder than the densest academic texts. In a Lifetime movie, you will never cease to be challenged and surprised. Every
plot twist heightens emotions and shocks the viewer with nothing short of the unfathomable. In “Guilty Hearts,” a seemingly ordinary
love affair pits church organ player Jenny Moran (Marcia Gay Harden - she’s in everything!) and church deacon Stephen Carrow
(Treat Williams) together, but lust turns to lies and lies into murder (mixed in with divorce, custody battles, attempted suicide).
Then it turns out the town’s church (The Church of True Transcendence) is a cult and everything just spirals into
this chaotic five-hour mini-series that addresses every social/individual problem in the book of life!

Lifetime: A Network for Women? The label serves only to hide (and hide well) the revolutionary nature of the network.
Who would suspect a station that plays the “Golden Girls” all afternoon to be preaching such a message of profundity.
The message here is this: don’t underestimate the educational/spiritual power of television docudrama. The amount of thematic material in these
films is exhaustive, but if these films are given enough respect and observation they will pave a path to enlightenment.
You may recall times when watching TV all day (or even for an hour) seemed to leave you with an
empty feeling, a feeling that reading a book or taking a nature walk would have been a better idea. Here
I must reemphasize that had you turned the channel to Lifetime, and engaged in a movie like “Heart Full of
Rain” or “The Wandering Soul Murders” you would have entered a world that leaves you thinking, leaves you wondering, leaves
you with a new outlook on the world and how to better it (now you are enlightened). The satisfactory peace
and adrenaline rush you feel at the film’s end is the only proof I can give you. Enlightenment aside, even
a cold-hearted unbeliever will have trouble holding back tears at the intense emotionalism that characterizes Lifetime. You can’t walk away
from “Do You Know the Muffin Man?” without lamenting the fragility of life. These films challenge the intellect, but they
also stir raw emotions of the heart. We all have questions. TV movies won't give you the answers, but they
prepare you by firing up your mind and impassioning your soul so that you can face challenges for a lifetime.
