16

~ THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 15, 2004

Four ‘Cats named to All-Tournament team as Davidson knocks off Vanderbilt and #21 UAB

By Brian HELFRICH
Staff Writer

This past weekend the Davidson men’s soccer team played host to the inaugural Davidson/adidas classic in Richardson Stadium. The Wildcats were hoping to open the newly constructed Alumni Stadium for the weekend tournament, but last week’s rain eliminated any chance of having the new field ready for this week’s games. Still, it was the first time that Davidson College had hosted a soccer tournament since 1998.

The tournament gave fans from both the school and the town the opportunity to see soccer played at a high level, as the tournament included two nationally ranked teams in #7 UNC Greensboro and #21 UAB. The Wildcats defeated both Vanderbilt and UAB en route to their first place finish in the tournament.

Davidson 5, Vanderbilt 2

After the tournament-opening game between nationally ranked squads from UAB and UNC Greensboro, Davidson opened up its weekend against SEC foe Vanderbilt. Davidson played the role of unfriendly host and dismantled a young Vanderbilt squad 5-2.

The Wildcats wasted no time in attacking Vanderbilt’s suspect defense, as Mac Wilkie ’07 found the back of the net off of a Cass Baltz ’07 free kick just over five minutes into the match for his first goal of the season. “The early goal was very important, especially at home,” Spear said. “Gaining the early advantage can really put the other team on its heels. I’m very happy for Mac. He has been working really hard these past few weeks, and that goal will be a shot in the arm for him.”

The Commodores responded ten minutes later to knot the game at 1-1, but the tie would not last long. Just ninety seconds later, John Latting ’06 showed the fans his unbelievable talent in dribbling sixty yards and drawing a foul inside the Vanderbilt penalty area. David Sartorio ’06 converted the penalty kick to give Davidson a lead it would not relinquish. “David was all over the place for us tonight,” said Spear. “He filled in at a lot of different positions and provided a lot of energy on the field. He really changed the game for us.”

see Soccer, page 15

New Women’s Soccer coach Ashton fitting in as planned

By Bossy DEMURO
Staff Writer

After a come-from-behind, overtime victory on Sunday on the road at Gardner-Webb University, the Davidson women’s soccer team has reason to be optimistic.

Early in the year, the Wildcats are 3-2, with a 1-0 record in Southern Conference play.

This is already a big departure from last year’s disappointing 6-12-2 mark, including only three Southern Conference victories and two home wins.

However, after the departure of former coach Kevin Hundley, and this year’s addition of new head coach Greg Ashton, things may have begun to turn around for the Wildcats.

Change is in the air

The difference, according to some close to the program, has already been felt. “This year’s team is determined to compete in every game they play,” Ashton said. “They have worked extremely hard throughout pre-season to remain in games when faced with adversity.”

“This year definitely feels different. Last year I felt like we kind of got ourselves stuck in a rut,” says Kara Koehrn ’06, a forward who in 2002 won Southern Conference Freshman of the Year honors, and followed that up with a first-team SoCon nod in 2003.

“[Ashton] and [Assistant Coach] Winnie [Corrigan], our new coaches, are seeing the team with new eyes. They are trying players in new positions, and working with us in different ways during practice so that we work better as a team and so that they exploit the talent that we have in the most effective way possible,” Koehrn adds.

The perfect guy for the job

Ashton seems to fit the mold of a Davidson coach perfectly. For the past four years, Ashton has been the head women’s soccer coach at Trinity University, a Division II school in San Antonio, Texas.

“I was not actively looking to move,” says Ashton, “but an opportunity to coach at the Division I level at an institution with a national reputation was an exciting proposition.”

In his four years at Trinity, Ashton led the Tigers to the national semi-finals twice, and last year led the Tigers to a 16-1-1 mark. In his career at Trinity, Ashton boasted a record of 71-8-2.

“We believe Greg Ashton is a very good fit for Davidson, with a proven record of competitive success at a school with a strong academic profile,” says Athletics Director Jim Murphy.

In addition to his team success in the past, Ashton has coached five All-American athletes and won numerous team awards for academic excellence, making him a perfect fit for Davidson.

“Ashton’s exceptional success at the Division III level, coupled with a good understanding of an academic environment, makes him an ideal choice for Davidson,” Murphy adds.

see Coach, page 14

Player of the Week

Jenna Dykstra ‘07

Volleyball
Hometown: Manhattan Beach, California

Major: Undeclared
This weekend in the Northern Arizona Invitational, Dykstra was the only Wildcat named to the All-Tournament team. The setter averaged 36 assists per game over four games, including 53 in a win against Rider. More important than the stats, Dykstra helped lead the ‘Cats to their first two wins.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Against No. 21 UAB on Sunday, the Wildcats dominated for the 90 minutes of regulation, outshooting the Blazers 20-7. Still, Davidson was unable to net any of those 20 attempts, forcing a sudden-death overtime period. Finally, Wildcat John Latting '06, a native of Birmingham, AL, scored in the 98th minute of the game to give the Wildcats a 1-0 victory. The Wildcats moved to 3-1 with the victory, and also earned the title in the adidas Classic.