THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Bulldogs tallied the first goal of the game within the first few minutes of the opening quarter, but the
Cats came back and scored a series of quick goals, making the score 4-2 at the end of the first
half. Davidson increased its lead to as high as three goals during the second half, but The Citadel remained in
the game and rallied to come back and tie the score at 6-6 with a little less than two minutes
remaining in the fourth quarter. With time running out, a comet drove to the net past numerous and strategic players
in Florida, North Carolina, and South Carolina. Davidson’s next game is the home opener against Wake Forest this Thursday, February
12.

By WALKER SAIK
Senior Staff Writer

Many coaches tell their athletes from day one that alcohol has no place in sports. This is a lie. There
is at least one sport where alcohol is not only allowed but also an integral part of the event, and
that sport is The Beer Mile. While it has yet to gain national media recognition, the Beer Mile is a
bona-fide competitive sporting event. It has rules and competitors and documented races all over the nation, with a best-known world
record of 5:40.0.

What is the Beer Mile, you ask? Well, it’s quite simply that giddy combination you’ve always been looking for: some
fine brewskies and a hardcore competition—at the same time! The procedure is quite simple; you drink a 12 oz beer
and run a lap around the track. Beer. Lap. Beer. Lap. Beer. Lap. Get it? (That’s four beers and four
laps in case you lost count.)

There are a few rules, too. Beer can only be consumed—more or less quickly depending on your personal ability—in the
10-meter transition location at the start of each lap. More importantly, however, is that your beer can’t be the watery
goodness also known as Milwaukee’s Best Light. In fact, it must be a beer with an alcohol content of at
least 5%, meaning a step up to the mighty Beast Ice would be a necessary evil. Also, for you experienced
drinkers, no artificial holes can be made in the can (no shotgunning), and only cans with the standard drinking mouth
can be used. That means none of those convenient wide-mouths are allowed.

Can’t take the slish-slosh of four beers in your stomach? Well, go ahead and puke, but beware the additional penalty
lap at the end of the fourth lap. It’s a doozy.

Senior track star Ben Gaspar is no foreigner to the idea of the Beer Mile. While never competing in one
himself, he knew a friend who finished right around six and a half minutes. Still, Gaspar admits, “it sounds pretty
unbelievable to me.” On the other hand, senior Nick Asma, beer connoisseur and casual runner alike, has no fear for
the challenge. “I honestly don’t think it would be too tough,” said Asma, who was just hearing about the Beer
Mile for the first time.time. Discussing strategy, Asma guessed that the “cheap and watered-down” beer would be the best bet,
and that while drunkenness shouldn’t be a problem, the sheer volume of the fluids definitely would be. He suggests running
slightly dehydrated and on a semi-empty stomach to offset these problems. While the Beer Mile sounds really nice, senior Chris
Schmader, yet another trackster, has goals far beyond that of just the single mile. “It’s always been my dream to
run in a Beer Mile,” said the long-distance specialist. “I hope to begin training for the event as soon as
the Outdoor Conference meet is over this year. After that, I'll make the move up to the ‘Beer 10k.’”

Schmader was only half-joking about the variation of the Beer Mile, though, as real-life upgrades truly exist. Not a big
beer fan? Try the Vodka Two-Mile (that’s eight shots and eight laps). Or the Four-Lap Beer Steeplechase (four beers; four
quarters, 16 barriers, four water pits). Or, if you just need that team sport credit, go for the 4x40 Beer
Relay (four team members, one 40oz beer, and one lap apiece). Of course, slight adaptations can be made for non-drinkers
as well. The Soda Mile is an obvious one, but how about the Ben and Jerry’s 4x4 (four pints of
Ben and Jerry’s ice cream of at least 300 calories, four miles)? And then there’s the Renaissance Mile, rumored to
have a record of 29 minutes, which consists of running a mile, solving a Rubik’s Cube, drinking 40oz of malt
liquor, dunking a basketball on a 10-foot rim, and eating a pint of ice cream, in any order.

In conclusion, the Beer Mile is a sport, and it just might be the right one for you. Give it
a thought, and maybe one day you will join the sub-seven minute club! For more information on the Beer Mile,
consult www.beermile.com, which was the source of all the information for this article and has endless more tidbits that might
just tickle your pickle.

From Men’s, page 14

conference schedule. The Southern Conference is as tight this year as it has ever been, and every opponent will be
a challenge. “The conference is so even that [the biggest factor in every match] could be the home court advantage,”
observed head coach Jeff Frank. “Every match will be a battle.” But before they start thinking about the SoCon, the
Wildcats must focus on their trip to Columbia on Sunday, February 15 to face off against SEC powerhouse and the
23rd-ranked team in the nation, South Carolina. The 'Cats will be looking to improve upon last year’s result, in which
Stonestreet won at the number three singles position and several other Davidson players nearly pulled off upsets. “We typically play
pretty well there,” said Frank. “I think we’ll have a much stronger performance than we did [earlier this season] at
UNC.”

Since 1990, 31 Davidson College graduates have applied their leadership skills to the growing movement to end educational inequity in
our country. Will you join them?

APPLICATION DEADLINE FEBRUARY 10

apply online at teachforamerica.org

TEACH FOR AMERICA

www.teachforamerica.org
