_NEWS_

If you speak Arabic, this is your chance to start a career as an Army Linguist. This experience will help prepare you for a future in business, government agencies, embassy work, and more! You'll also get English training (if needed) and receive quick advancement in rank. See your local Army Reserve Recruiter or visit arabic.goarmy.com.

_Wednesday, March 31, 2004_

College continues Watson streak with 70th Fellow

By Ben WHIGHAM
Staff Writer

Thanks to an impressive academic record and a clever grant proposal, Gray Lyons ’04 is the newest member in Davidson’s unbroken streak of Watson Fellows.

After graduation, Lyons will spend a year studying breads in France, Hungary, India, Vietnam, and Trinidad.

Established in 1968, the Watson Fellowship provides recipients $22,000 for a year of independent study around the globe.

Applicants must submit a preplanned project involving an area related to their interest. The Fellowship then reviews the proposed project along with almost every conceivable aspect of the student.

An original field of 35 Davidson seniors was slimmed down to four finalists by the school. The proposals and transcripts of these four finalists were submitted to the Watson Fellowship that selected Lyons as one of 50 Watson Fellows for the 2004-2005 year.

While every participating college and university submits four finalists per year, there is no guarantee that any candidate will be chosen a winner.

Davidson has had a Watson Fellow every year since joining the program in 1969.

Raised in Birmingham, Alabama, Lyons was attracted by the opportunity to travel outside the Southeast.

Although not his first time outside the country, Lyons’ target destinations will take him to exotic locations across the globe.

“I partially picked them because they are in distinct parts of the world that I want to visit,” said Lyons. “Also, they all have different types of bread and different traditions.”

Despite his scientific orientation, Lyons’ project delves into cultural studies of bread and its functions in society.

“My project will look at bread’s role in religious ceremonies, rites of passage, holidays, and various other anthropological aspects of breads,” he said.

According to the Fellowship’s terms, Watson’s project will also deal with Lyons’ past line of study by analyzing the nutritional aspects of bread in each country.

“It’s an ideal proposal for Gray because it blends his personal interest in baking with his professional interest in health care,” said Dr. Malcolm Campbell, a Watson Fellow in 1984 and Lyons’ honors thesis advisor.

The terms of the fellowship do not allow Lyons to return to the United States during his year abroad.

“Although it sounds glamorous, it is a very lonely year,” said Campbell. “It’s been very influential in my life, and I’m sure it will be in Gray’s too.”

“It will send me out into the world and help me learn and grow as a person,” said Lyons.

A biology major, Lyons’ honor thesis on gene therapy was recently approved.

Lyons’ thesis stemmed from two years of research he conducted at the University of Alabama-Birmingham, under the guidance of Dr. Joanne Douglas.

The research related to the use of gene therapy in improving bone formation.

“Through his research, Gray has developed a sophisticated understanding of molecular biology and genetics,” said Dr. Karen Hales, a member of the Davidson biology department involved in Lyons’ thesis development. “He is skilled at communicating that understanding.”

After returning from the Watson, Lyons will attend medical school, where he will pursue...