5 z LIVING THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2004

A canvas of tiny paintings: Chuck Close’s ‘Prints and Process’
By ANNIE OLSON
Special Contributor

“I saw that each grid was in fact a tiny painting.” —Chuck Close

The show is “Chuck Close: Prints and Process.” The appeal should be obvious. While Davidson College hosts this exhibition, the
Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York hosts “Chuck Close: Process and Collaboration.” Yes, I am comparing Davidson College to
the Met, and I am not the only one.

The prints exhibited for us show nine intricate methods of creation that internationally recognized and celebrated artist Chuck Close has
explored and employed since his discovery of the advantages of printmaking in 1972. An American photorealist born in 1940, Close
is known for his self-proclaimed larger-than-life “heads.” Close uses the familiar human face (either his own or those of his
friends) because he suffers from severe dyslexia. This condition prevents him from easily recalling the faces of loved ones. The
process of flattening these faces into huge portraits helps him understand the face and then remember that person in reality.
Thus we see an entire collection of Chuck’s family and friends (such as “Phil,” which shows Close’s strong effort to
win this battle).

Close has also struggled through another disability. Many predicted his career would end in 1988 when he became paralyzed, but
life as a quadriplegic made him determined to move again so that he could produce art. After regaining some movement
in his arms, Chuck learned to paint and make prints in a wheelchair and has succeeded, both before and since
then, as one of the most famous artists of our time.

Close says that printmaking has been an integral part of his career. After his paralysis, his composition of choice has
been a combination of a grid with a face. This grid creates an overall composition out of mini-paintings. “Prints and
Process” shows that Close has explored every aspect of the printmaking process, from etching to fingerprinting to processes that are
new to my eyes. In his screen-print portrait “Lyle” he has used a variety of 149 colors. In black and
white works, such as his reduction linocuts, the luminosity contrasted with shadow is so intense that the facial highlights shine
as if wet.

The work on display right across Main Street is mind-boggling. The size of the larger screen-prints is overwhelming. The viewer’s
eye gathers the tiny abstract pieces within each print and fuses them into the very delicate and believable image of
a face. This show is a must-see for artists and non-artists alike. “Chuck Close: Prints and Process” runs from Jan.
22 to Feb. 27 in the Van Every Gallery of the Belk Visual Arts Center. The exhibition is open from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on weekdays and 12 to 4 p.m. on weekends.

photo by Cannon Hodge

The sexual (r)evolution of the Davidson hook-up
By KAYLEEN HARTMAN
Senior Staff Writer

If you’ve ever been out on Patterson Court, chances are, you may have kissed someone you don’t know. Kissing happens—often,
as it turns out. As a former frequenter of the Patterson Court scene, the thing I remember with the most
fondness in my heart is how blissfully consequence-free all the kissing was; I kissed friends, strangers, crushes, men, women, seniors,
freshmen, frat boys and GDI’s and, although I did not always wake up the next morning...With an expression of pride
on my face, most of these little episodes were overlooked with a friendly smile and a casual chuckle. After all,
everybody was doing it, right? But what if, in the months, weeks, and semesters since the days of the meaningless
make-out, the rules have changed? It seems to me that over the past four years, expectations have changed; people are
having sex, and a lot of it. Talking with friends, I’ve begun to notice that having sex with someone the
first night you meet them is becoming the rule, rather than the exception.

Uncertain whether or not I was simply imagining a better, more innocent time than had ever existed, I polled some
older friends—turns out that male or female, they feel it too. One anonymous senior, no stranger to the Patterson Court
scene and a veteran of the fabled Golden Days of Just Make Out, confides, “Lately, boys have become fairly aggressive
about things other than kissing.” Although she, like the others, attributes some of the cause to extenuating circumstances, it seems
that in general there is a trend. More people are having sex.

In the interest of maintaining gender equality, I called in a Y chromosome (to see if we could get confirmation
from their half of the population). This anonymous senior admits that he has more sex than he used to, but
attributes part of that good luck to the fact that the women he’s taking home these days are a bit
older, they’re people he’s known a bit longer, and often, they’re people who he’s hooked up with before. Which is
interesting, because maybe expectations haven’t changed at all among the general Davidson population. Perhaps it’s just that as you get
older, sex just happens more often. As one senior puts it, “I mean, we’re too old to give hand jobs.”
So, we have sex with strangers more often than we used to because the other options are becoming a bit
tired?

“I think that the people I’m friends with now realize that they have the option to say no, but they
don’t because they’re so used to saying yes. It’s just easy to go ahead and do it [...] it just
feels normal, they’re not virgins. At some point their body just takes over.” The interesting thing here is not the
decision to have sex, but the decision not to not have sex. I suspect that the distinction is an important
one. From what everyone is telling me, it isn’t just that seniors are growing into their own sexual appetites. The
rest of the campus is moving forward too; beginning with freshmen, more sex is being had—or at the very least,
more sex is being talked about.

In general, I’m a fan of sex and any spike in that statistic tends to make me feel more warm
and fuzzy than anything else, but in this case, I can’t help but experience a sense of alarm. What happens
when the same friendly reason that no one socially exiled me for my penchant for spreading my saliva around the
court becomes the same reason we socially accept the mass spread of sexually transmitted disease around the court? Or even
more infectious, the mentality that sex is easier to do than not do? We live in close quarters; we purport
to be a tightly knit community. If I am wrong and our growing acceptance of casual sex means that the
entire Davidson student body is experiencing a sexual revolution, then more power to us all. Good sex, had under the
right conditions, is exactly what this campus needs. But more lemming-like flocking right over the cliff of sexual irresponsibility is,
I think, dangerous to both our minds and our bodies. Sex is best when you can have it again the
next day, the next week. Sex is much nicer when the give and take you’re concerned with is about sharing,
not syphilis.
