Todd’s Music: Jam Band Heaven

Courtesy of Todd’s Music

Local record store offers ‘music for your head’

By Lauren Law
Staff Writer

Todd Farmer is “just looking to turn everybody onto some live music.” He plays mandolin in a local jam/bluegrass group
called Banana Pudding. One of these jam-band friends introduced Farmer to a store that he later bought and named Todd’s
Music. Since its opening last March, live music has been the store-owner’s primary objective.

Todd’s Music offers a middling assortment of DVDs, videos, new and used CDs, and vintage records. The store and its
stock generally cater to Farmer’s personal interests, “[W]e try to carry a little bit of everything, but I guess we’re
more into the hippie jam band stuff. I’ve seen 85 Dead shows, so I guess I’m just an old Dead
Head.”

Still, Farmer guarantees that any media item that is not in stock can be ordered within two days and free
of shipping costs.

While the media selection is limited, Todd’s Music is more than a record store. The shop embodies Farmer’s passion by
promoting local and live music and selling Mountain Percussion instruments, acoustic guitars and bass, mandolins, banjos, and accessories. Farmer offers
basic repairs and lessons to those who have purchased instruments, and he hopes to host local park drum seminars this
spring.

In addition to Farmer’s programs through Todd’s Music, he plans to promote live music through his band. Banana Pudding is
scheduled to play numerous springtime arena gigs and participate in local festivals.

These events will also act as a venue for other store merchandise (such as incense, hemp jewelry and clothing, belly
rings, posters, candles, etc.). Farmer hopes that these items will advertise his store and its music.

If you are searching for music that isn’t found within this genre, I personally would not recommend Todd’s Music. On
the other hand, considering that there isn’t a Best Buy within a thirty-minute drive, Todd’s special order policy might save
you in gas money what you lose in time. However, if you’re really interested in hearing live music or playing
your own, Todd’s Music offers everything that you need.

Directions: Take 77 South to exit 28, take a left at the stop light, take a right on Torrence Chapel
Road (located in the shopping center on your left). Hours are Mon-Thurs 10-6; Fri, Sat 10-7. Visit their website at
www.Toddsmusic.net.

Snapshots of Davidson

been sending mixed ghostly NASCAR logo.

Above is an interior view of the banner that unidentified spectators used to make the clock display a ghostly NASCAR
logo.

Wednesday, February 4, 2004

Student exhibition a compelling blend of color and geometry

By Jessica Straus
Special Contributor

The “Beware of the Square” sign hanging on the door of the VAC should alert you to the explosion of
color in the Smith Gallery. If you thought Chuck Close had it going on, walk across the hall and discover
the room that has been engulfed by the work of Trevor Dienes '04.

Dienes is an abstract artist. But he doesn’t alienate his audience or leave you feeling that you could have done
the same thing with a couple of crayons and construction paper. He brings you into textured layers of paint and
fascinates you with his colors. His acrylic and oil paintings are an amalgam of colors that somehow fuse into an
entrancing whole. His rhythmic brushstrokes give his paintings incredible energy.

“I have always just preferred working with colors and their interactions to create a harmony on the canvas, rather than
be too concerned with capturing the objective reality,” said Dienes of his work.

But I think Dienes does capture a striking dimension of reality. His distortion of appearances only augments his ability to
capture the emotion and life of his subjects. He is able to project their essence through intricate use of color
and through flat, simple shapes. In Dienes’ work, complexity and simplicity are equally riveting.

Dienes lets his artistic influences shine through in his work. His exhibition’s title piece, “Beware of the Squares,” gives a
nod to Austrian painter Gustav Klimt. Klimt made powerful use of patterns, especially squares, in his work. Dienes’ theme of
squares and patterns dually encourages us to ‘beware’ conformity and awakens his audience to the captivating quality of intricate pattern.

Austrian artist, Egon Schiele, also influenced Dienes. A little side note here; before his death at age 28, Schiele was
expected to be the “new” Gustav Klimt.

So, clearly Dienes has a thing for Austrians. Either way, Schiele’s influence can be seen in Dienes’ use of bold
contour amidst a colorful chaos. In contrast to Schiele’s grotesque eroticism, Dienes makes provocative use of the nude, almost camouflaging
it with abstract designs.

Dienes’ work is vibrant with energy, an energy that the Davidson community should not miss.

“Trevor Dienes: Beware of the Square” runs from January 31 to February 7 in the Smith Gallery of the Belk
Visual Arts Center. The exhibition is open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on weekdays and 12 p.m. to 4
p.m. on weekends.

An advertisement for Trevor Dienes’s show, ‘Beware of the Square’

For those of you keeping score, here’s A&L’s index of current trends, tracking what's cool - and what comes up
way short.

Making the best of your private space

Independent record stores

Pasties at the Super Bowl

Brown snow a week later

Wasting Owen Wilson’s talent

Over-priced jeans
