14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Freshman already taking control on field

By Britt MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

Kayli Maxwell ’08, a forward/midfielder for the field hockey team, was selected as Rookie of the Week in the Northern Pacific Conference’s Eastern Division last week after registering two goals and an assist against Longwood University on Sept. 19. The honor was long overdue, however, as Maxwell has carried the Wildcat offense throughout the early season.

Maxwell comes to Davidson from Edmond, Oklahoma, where she attended the Casady School. There, she was a first team all-conference selection for both field hockey and soccer, as well as MVP of both teams her junior and senior years. She led Casady to the conference championship and was a Regional All-American in field hockey. A four-sport athlete, she was also a member of her high school’s track and basketball teams.

“The main reason I decided to play field hockey was because it was my strongest sport. At one time I had to choose between soccer and field hockey, but I decided that field hockey would be better,” said Maxwell, who ended her senior year with twelve goals and thirteen assists.

Growing up and watching the older girls at her school play field hockey had a huge influence on Maxwell. “I always thought that it was so cool that they were really good and everyone knew it. I wanted to be like them,” she said. Her high school has consistently boasted a high-quality squad, winning the Southwest Preparatory Conference numerous times, including Maxwell’s senior year.

“The major difference for me between high school and college field hockey is the pace of the game. I have never played on turf before, and so it feels a lot faster. Also, the attitude on this team is a lot different. In my high school, some people were on the team because it was a cool thing to do, not necessarily because they wanted to play field hockey. But on the Davidson team, everyone loves the sport and loves everyone on the team,” says Maxwell.

Davidson has been a very comfortable fit so far for the 5’8” freshman. With its reputation as a college that expects scholastic excellence from all its students, many athletes would be intimidated. This is not true for Maxwell, who chose her school based on both athletics and academics. Maxwell says, “[I am] thinking about majoring in either chemistry or biology. I am hoping to go to medical school, but I’m not sure yet.”

Time management is of the essence, however, for this young field hockey player, who said that, “balancing academics has been much harder than I had thought it would be. I do not have a lot of spare time between sports, classes, and the other things that are required for the freshmen to do. But I think [my full schedule] helps me get things done. Since I have such limited time, I am able to sit down and do my work without wasting time.”

While the transition to the college game has been tough on several levels, Maxwell has not shown any struggles on the field, where she leads all Wildcats with eight goals on the season, including three game-winners. Despite the contributions from Maxwell and the other five incoming freshmen, team chemistry is also excellent according to the freshman forward, who said, “The girls are so awesome, and there is no division of classes within the team. It’s great. Being a freshman has not at all affected [my ability to be a leader].”

Head coach Lisa Thompson says, “Kayli contributes a great deal to this program in every capacity. She is a fast and finessed player, as well as a supportive and positive teammate. I believe she is just beginning to tap into her true potential.”

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2004

From Field Hockey, page 16

Sensation Kayli Maxwell ’08 assisted on the goal. A string of goals followed Cowley’s opening score, as the Wildcats held a commanding 7-1 lead at the end of the first half. Tiffany Homan ’05 and Maxwell both added a pair of goals, with Emily Davis ’06 and Carrie Lewis ’06 adding one goal apiece. Maxwell, chosen as the Nor-Pac Conference East Division Rookie of the Week for her accomplishments against Longwood, dominated the second half as she burned the Catawba defense for three more goals, giving her eight goals on the season. Homan, not to be overshadowed, added her third goal of the game and fourth on the season.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of goals in the first half of this season as she had all of last year. Head coach Lisa Thompson was excited about her team’s performance, as she said they “played with confidence and drive. They were not afraid to take risks on the field. In doing so they created a lot of great opportunities.” The Wildcats returned Sunday to Belk Turf Field in an important match-up with the Radford Highlanders, a member of the Nor-Pac East Division, and the Wildcats were looking to bounce back in the East Division after a disappointing 3-0 loss at Appalachian State earlier in the year. Radford got on the board early with a score only two minutes into the first half, and the Wildcats were unable to solve the Highlander defense over the final 68 minutes of play. Davidson outshot Radford 12 to six in the game, but was unable to convert any of those opportunities into scores. The loss drops the Wildcats to 3-5 on the year but, more importantly, 0-2 in the Nor-Pac East Division, which they won in the regular season last year. The Wildcats will have to forget about the game with Radford, though, as they face some tough competition in the next couple of weeks. Three of their next four games, which are all on the road, come against teams ranked in the top ten in the nation: North Carolina (No. 2) on Sept. 28th, Duke (No. 5) on Oct. 3rd, and American University (No. 10) on Oct. 10th.

Men’s Soccer loses first SoCon match against Charleston
By BRIAN HELFRICH
Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team traveled south on Sunday into the heart of Hurricane Jeanne’s bad weather to face the College of Charleston in the Wildcats’ Southern Conference opener. In what has become an early season trend, the ’Cats played a game of two very different halves. Davidson dominated the play early on, but then surrendered three unanswered second-half goals en route to a 3-1 loss to the Cougars. Davidson came out of the gates quickly, using the strong wind that was at their backs to produce a handful of great scoring opportunities early on in the match. The ’Cats almost got on the board early as David Sartorio’s ’06 attempt to finish a rebound from a Mac Wilkie ’07 shot sailed just wide of the net. With just under ten minutes to play in the half, however, forward Matt Allen ’06 was able to put home another rebound opportunity off a Wilkie strike. Allen’s first goal of the season gave the visiting team a 1-0 lead. Two great saves by senior goalkeeper Bart Creasman ’05 allowed Davidson to enter halftime with a one-goal advantage. “We dominated the first 60 minutes of play,” head coach Matt Spear said. “We talked at halftime about managing the wind and getting a few more goals. Holding on to a lead is always hard on the road. We need to score not just one goal, but two or three.” Unfortunately for the ’Cats, with the change in halves also came a change in the momentum. Just 15 minutes into the second period, Charleston’s Ben Hollingsworth delivered a highlight-reel goal to knot the game at 1-1. Although Davidson battled hard throughout, the Cougars tallied two more goals in quick fashion as the Wildcats dropped their third straight match. “They played an efficient yet unattractive style—it was very direct,” Spear said. “We were able to withstand it for a while, but when they scored their first goal, they gained a lot of confidence and were able to score a few more.” The loss drops the Wildcats to 3-4 on the season, including an 0-1 mark in the Southern Conference. The sub-par record, while somewhat misleading because Davidson has played a difficult early season schedule, shows that there is still plenty of room for improvement. “I like the way we are playing and I like our effort,” Spear said. “We need to stay strong as a unit. Our schedule has been extremely difficult—much more challenging than last year—and the players know that.” The ’Cats return home from the winless road trip this Wednesday night at 7 p.m. for a crucial match-up against the South Carolina Gamecocks, who this past weekend upset nationally-ranked Wake Forest. The game will be yet another test for the Wildcats, and will be the second part of a double-header with the women’s team to open up the brand new Alumni Stadium.