THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

By Wilson McCrory
Sports Editor

After Florida State won its first-ever ACC meeting in basketball against the North Carolina Tar Heels at the Dean Smith
Center in 1991, Seminole point guard Sam Cassell famously stated, “This is not a Duke kind of crowd. It’s more
like a cheese-and-wine crowd, kind of laid back.” Cassell has now played more than 10 years in the NBA, but
the moniker he gave to the Heels fan remains; they are still known as the “wine-and-cheese” crowd no matter how
loud the Smith Center is.

So, if Carolina is characterized by the wine-and-cheese label, what does that make us? The Heels sell out every game
at the 23,000 seat Smith Center, while we can’t fill up the Cat Pack section at basketball games. At football
games, our crowds would be dwarfed by most high school teams on a given Friday night. Last year as a
freshman I was so excited to be a part of Division I college athletics, and to see some of the
highest level competition that sports has to offer. Granted, we are not North Carolina, Duke or Wake Forest, and the
Southern Conference is certainly not the ACC, but we do have an incredible group of athletes that somehow manages to
balance a Davidson workload while giving at least 20 hours a week to their sport of choice. Unlike other schools,
the Davidson athlete is the example of the student-athlete. They don’t have special “tutors” or Jim Harrick Jr. exams. They
don’t get credit for classes like “football” as players do at Ohio State. They litter the same math, econ and
psych classes that the rest of us do, and in their spare time represent the Wildcats on the playing field.
So if any group deserves support, it’s the Davidson athlete.

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Columnist

First off, let me say my heart goes out to anyone affected by the recent hurricanes. But I’m not going
to lie here: I was really counting on Ivan this weekend. Don’t get me wrong, I’m all about outside fun-time.
But the sheer amount of incredible sporting events on television had me hoping Ivan would at least sneeze on us
so I wouldn’t feel guilty sitting/eating/sleeping on my couch for embarrassing lengths of time.

It all started Friday afternoon with the Ryder Cup. America, as expected, started off like the tortoise, except this time
we weren’t racing the hare. Instead, we found ourselves up against a Harrier Jet. Europe took a 4.5 point lead
on the first day and, like that girl I tried talking to Saturday night, never looked back. After Day Two,
the lead increased to six points, but with the 1999 Ryder at Brookline on their minds, golf fans foolishly held
out hope. I was there at Brookline, and the magic really was palpable. But to think the Americans could prevent
the Europeans from winning at Oakland Hills was like thinking Chuck could prevent Ren from stealing Ariel in Footloose—there was
absolutely no chance.

In the end, the Americans lost 18.5-9.5 as the Europeans claimed their fourth out of the past five Ryder Cups.
Ivan would have done us all a favor by heading to Detroit and washing the whole thing out. Instead, he
decided New York needed a cleansing and forced two rain-delays in Game One of the Red Sox/Yankees series. The game
started at 7 p.m. Friday, leading us to believe we could watch all nine innings and start socializing by 10
at the latest. But, alas, Ivan kept me home until midnight. It was worth the wait, of course, with the
Sox pulling out a 3-2 win in the ninth (too late to nominate Johnny Damon for President?), but everyone knows
showing up to a party after midnight is like starting a marathon two hours too late—unless your name is Rosie
Ruiz, you’re screwed. So, I cut my losses and increased the butt-groove in my couch.

By the time I was rudely awakened on Saturday, the Sox were back at it. This time, though, Boston played
Leon Spinks to New York’s Mike Tyson, as the Yankees beat the Sox mercilessly, winning 14-4 while the sun mocked
me through the window. (By the way, if you haven’t seen the Tyson/Spinks fight, do so immediately. It’s pure human
rage at its finest.)

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2004

It was great to see our students occupy four buses to go into Charlotte for the basketball game against the
Tar Heels last year. Students even camped out in front of Baker for tickets to the game, creating Davidson’s own
version of Krzyzewski-ville (minus the internet hookups, of course). That was the kind of atmosphere that I hope for when...

For you sports fans...

NOOKIE’S PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat game of the week:
Football
Davidson vs. Butler
Saturday, 9/25 at 1:00
Richardson Stadium

Finally, Davidson football will be playing the home opener against Butler. Not only is it the opener, it is also
the homecoming game. The team should welcome a home game, as it has had a rough time on the road,
with losses at Lenoir-Rhyne and Coastal Carolina. Come out and cheer on the football team.I arrived here as a freshman.
But, with the exception of a few big-time match-ups each year, we as a student body show incredible apathy towards
the 24% of our student body that participates in some kind of varsity sport on campus. The players that suit
up to represent our school week-in and week-out deserve far better than the stiff upper lip that we throw towards
the Wildcats. No one asks that we bow down to the student-athletes like at other schools, or that we show
up to every game on campus. For most teams, all they want is for the fans to make an effort,
and to have an appreciation for their work in and out of season. This year, each team has designated one
game per season as their “feature” game for fans, hoping to show off their product and have a true home-field
advantage at least once. The Davidson Cat Pack will be organizing various events.

Most of us are incapable of such raw emotion. If there’s any silver lining to the whole Red Sox debacle,
it’s that the game was over by 4 p.m., allowing for ample outside time, which I spent inside watching the
Auburn/LSU game. Noticing a trend here? My sitting rampage continued deep into the night once again, as the Tennessee/Florida contest
came down to a 50-yard field goal from a kid who had just missed an extra point. That’s the beauty
of college football: kids can, and will, miss an extra point. For some reason, I enjoy that. Anyway, the Sox
were playing again Sunday, but they got smoked again and that’s all you need to know. My couch and I
finally divorced Sunday afternoon because CBS on campus was frozen on some sort of religious ceremony, thereby forcing me down
to RJ Gator’s on 28 for the Patriots game. (Question for whoever runs Cat-TV: what the hell is going on?
Sort out these channels. If this crap happens to Fox when The OC returns, there will be riots.) Fortunately, my
affair with the couch will not continue for at least a week. After all, this weekend is homecoming. Go to
the football game; the Greek Games you can miss.

By BRENDAN PARETS
Guest Columnist

As a young boy, I was positive that I was going to be a professional athlete. In fact, it was
only recently that I found out that professional athletics was not a likely career choice for me (I was delusional
for a long time). Oddly enough though, I never really had the urge to be a Rabbi. Like most reform
Jewish boys, athletes and not rabbis were the heroes. I never really thought about being Jewish or what it meant
to be Jewish; I grew up in Scarsdale, New York, not exactly Billy Graham territory, and pretty much everyone I
knew was Jewish. When I grew older, I began to see that everyone was not, in fact, Jewish, at least
outside of New York. It’s hard to explain how American secular Jews view themselves. Most of us go to synagogue
twice a year for Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur, don’t keep Kosher, don’t observe Shabbat, and do not consider ourselves
to be fairly religious. But still, there is a kinship among Jews. I know my friends and I can recite
long lists of Jewish celebrities. And trust me, there are plenty of Jewish comedians, actors, musicians, and entrepreneurs. But when
it comes to sports, the Jewish contingent is lacking. For whatever reason, there aren’t a whole lot of Jewish athletes,
but when one comes along, he is embraced. In the past, Hank Greenberg, Sandy Koufax, Sid Luckman, Mark Spitz, Dolph
Schayes, and today, Jay Fiedler, Gabe Kapler, Shawn Green. I would bet that most American Jewish sports fans know these
names. There are numerous websites devoted to Jewish athletes, and a baseball card set was created recently featuring every Jewish
baseball player to play in the Major Leagues. It is not a religious connection that fosters this reverence, but instead
it’s recognition of a more ancestral bond. In 1965, Sandy Koufax cemented this kinship when he decided not to pitch
in a World Series game in order to observe Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement. Every year in Hebrew school,
we would learn about how Koufax, being a good Jewish boy, made the right religious decision. But the impact was
far more than religious. Koufax proved that he was one of us. Shawn Green now faces a similar dilemma. An
important series for the Dodgers happens to fall on Yom Kippur, and Green, as a star of the team, needs
to decide whether or not to play. In the religious realm, I don’t care whether or not he chooses to
play. If he decided to spend the day slaughtering pigs for his BLTs, that choice would be his. But, on
a personal level, I hope that he chooses to sit out the game. Let Jewish guys all over the country,
me included, consider him one of us. Let him acknowledge his Jewish heritage. Heck, if he goes to Yom Kippur
services just like me, maybe I have a shot at the bigs.
