THE DAVIDSONIAN from USA, page 12

Even the jump shot, as evidenced by Team USA’s 3-24 performance from behind the arc against Puerto Rico en route
to their embarrassing 92-73 opening round loss in the Olympics. In years past, the Americans made up for these fundamental
deficiencies with a huge advantage in talent and experience, but now, with so much quality basketball overseas, and the huge
influx of foreign players into the NBA, the international teams are no longer so overwhelmed by the Americans' talent. Instead,
they calmly work the ball around on offense to look for open shots, and play stingy zone defenses that force
opponents to make their points outside of the lane instead of through dunks and lay-ups.

Despite the obvious gains by international basketball, and the clear signs in 2002 and years past that the world was
catching up, we all hoped that a revamped 2004 squad, infused with the veteran leadership of Allen Iverson and Tim
Duncan, would inspire a total team effort that would again demonstrate that the gap hadn’t shortened that much at all.
Maybe Karl was right that the 2002 team just hadn’t played inspired ball. Aside from the listless opening loss to
Puerto Rico, Team USA did appear to play as if it cared throughout the Olympics, demonstrating a passion that surely
was not seen two years ago. The Americans played inspired defense, emphasized team offense, and crashed the boards with something
to prove. As the final minutes of the tournament went by, the Americans played emotional, flawless basketball to hold off
Lithuania in their best performance of the two weeks, guaranteeing that their unprecedented streak of Olympic medals would continue. That
the Americans were struggling for the bronze medal, however, truly indicated how far USA Basketball has fallen.

SPORTS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2004

QB Damion White ’05 ready to lead
Bossy DEMURO Staff Writer

In the third quarter of last Saturday’s exhibition match-up against Greensboro College, it was apparent that a new leader had
emerged for the 2004 season. After a rocky 3-8 finish to last year’s campaign, one in which a constant quarterback
carousel created a different starter almost weekly, Damion White ’05 has assumed the role as a vocal head for the
’04 squad. After playing a stellar first quarter against the Pride in which he passed for 71 yards and a
score on 5 of 6 passing, White was on hand throughout the rest of the game to hand out advice
and support to the freshmen quarterbacks. Hopefully the rookies listened too, since White certainly has plenty of experience both in
and out of the pocket for the Wildcats.

Originally a walk-on basketball player from local West Charlotte High School, White ditched basketball to claim the starting quarterback role
in 2003 after a preseason battle with then-sophomore Tom Cook ’06. After a poor start to the season, White improved
dramatically before tearing the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee with two games remaining. Despite the injury, which forced
the quarterback to rehab his knee constantly throughout the off-season, White has been termed by some as “the guy” under
center this year. When asked for his take on this, a humble White shrugs it off. “I suppose that people
may reference the quarterback as ‘the guy,’” says White, “but the way I see it is that I am only
a visible extension of the hard work and attitude of the other ten guys that are on the field with
me, especially the offensive line.”This year are high, re head coach Mike Toop also noted, “[Damion] needs to be more
consistent this season. He had some big games last year, and some games where he did not execute as well
as he was capable.” If the exhibition versus the Pride was any indication, White seems to have finally found the
consistency that Toop desires. In his first and only quarter of action since last year’s injury, he moved swiftly in
and out of the pocket, running once for a 12-yard gain. He also connected with Jake Rice ’06 on a
27-yard scoring pass that put the ’Cats up early in the game. When asked about his strengths, White said, “Being
mobile is certainly an asset, but I feel my greatest asset is my mind. My coaches have done a great
job of preparing me for the role [of quarterback], and they have made it as easy as possible for me
to make tough decisions in chaotic situations, which is the one tool that often sets good quarterbacks apart from great
ones.”

Although White finally looks ready to execute consistently, a big concern this year will be finding receivers to throw to
downfield. Coach Toop stated that “the passing game will unfold as the season progresses - we will see if there
is a Mike Chase or a Barrett Johnson [this year].” Not only is the receiving corps untested, but “the offensive
line needs to protect the QB this year,” states Toop. Luckily the running game, led by John Leverett ’05, Jonathon
Hubbard ’07, and Christian Hunt ’05, appears to be a strong point yet again after a strong ’03 season. Match
these three with White’s intangibles and athleticism, and there may be many more nights like Saturday’s 34-0 preseason victory.

Still, a big question on the minds of the fans is whether White’s knee is ready to sustain the perils
of his position. After all, White’s mobility is a key to his success, and the injury has left doubt as
to whether he will return with the same mobility this season. “[Damion’s] knee seems to be fine and he is
moving well,” were Toop’s only words on the subject. White himself says, “I definitely believe that I have been rehabilitated
to 100%, and I don’t feel that I will be any less mobile.” More so than his knee or his
own play, White is focused on team goals and aspirations. “The outlook of this team will certainly be to play
with more mental toughness. Last year we had far too many instances in which we did not respond mentally, which
is the cornerstone of any successful endeavor, athletic or not,” stated White.

Finally, White said, “I think our greatest asset [this year] will be our attitude. Last season, we never really found
our personality or mentality as a team, but this season we have gelled much more quickly, and that identity is
taking shape. I can see already that we have a unified focus this year and no one player’s individuality will
undermine that, because we are solely focused on doing whatever it takes to win the Pioneer [Football] League championship.”

COME TO AN INFORMATIONAL MEETING
SEPTEMBER 14, 2004
4:00 P.M.
CHAMBERS, ROOM 3136

If you are unable to attend this meeting, please contact your Study Abroad Advisor or The Swedish Program, Hamilton College,
198 College Hill Road, Clinton, New York 13323
(315) 737-0123
www.swedishprogram.org
