THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2004

Liz debates the popularity of Uggs: practical or pitiful?
By Liz BILLET
Senior Staff Writer

Gentlemen, you must understand the relationship between shoes and women. If I may rely upon gender stereotypes for comparison: shoes
are to women as cars are to men. Men, if you like cars, you might watch NASCAR or consider your
mechanic a good friend. True interest in cars means that you can identify model, make, and year of any car
by the shape of the fender or the sound of the horn. You obtain real joy from learning about cars
or being in the presence of a quality automobile. Likewise are women who like shoes. They will read about shoes
in fashion magazines, and will become friends with their shoe salesman (whether he be the assistant manager of Discount Shoe
Warehouse or Manolo Blahnik himself). The true shoe worshipper has an intimate knowledge of styles and the years to which
these styles correlate. You obtain real joy from learning about shoes or being in the presence of quality footwear.

Thus I admit: I write as a shoe lover. My shoe collection is not all that great, but that is
because I blow my money on magazines so that I can read about nicer shoes than the ones I own.
One such shoe I have read about is the Ugg boot. Surely you have heard of the most

Uggs: Concert Review
May not work well with skirts

www.uggaustralia.com

Noted jazz pianist sets eclectic tone at Wake Forest
By ZACH WILLIAMS
Perspectives Editor

Jazz, as a popular art form, might as well be dead. Even the most devoted jazz listener would find him
or herself hard-pressed to name more than ten significant players on the scene today. Perhaps that’s why Brad Mehldau and
his jazz trio decided to reward an over-sold Wake Forest performance hall of raucous applauders with a rendition of Radiohead’s
“Exit Music for a Film,” and not Duke Ellington’s “Take the A Train” as an encore last Friday night. But
exactly what business do jazz musicians, often too snobbish to consider pop music legitimate, have playing Radiohead?

The Brad Mehldau trio, consisting of Mehldau on piano, Larry Grenadier on bass, and Jorge Rossy on drums, has consistently
supplied a much-needed spark to the jazz world for nearly ten years now. The trio’s continued popularity, astonishing to say
the least, is a testament to the band’s hallowed ability to produce a truly unique and inspiring sound. For jazz
enthusiasts who happen to live in or around the Carolinas, far from the more popular jazz venues in New York
or Chicago, Friday night’s show was a rare treat.

During much of the first half of the concert, the trio played in the intellectual and somewhat inaccessible style that
has earned them both praise and criticism, offering unheard originals and a few covers, including a harmonically adventurous version of
Thelonious Monk’s “Skippy.” Fortunately, after a prolonged period of what one might call “heady” jazz, Mehldau switched gears with an
unexpectedly emotional performance of Gershwin’s famous ballad, “Someone to Watch Over Me.” Despite the formal setting, a few audible “oohs”
and “ahhs” were heard from the audience as Mehldau seemed to brilliantly apply his distinctive style while also staying true
to the melody.

Mehldau has also gained popularity with his willingness to explore music outside of the jazz idiom. The trio concluded Friday’s
concert with a cover of the Beatles’ “She’s Leaving Home” and, as mentioned earlier, performed Radiohead’s “Exit Music for a
Film” as an encore. One might be immediately skeptical of jazz interpretations of Radiohead and Beatles tunes, but Mehldau and
his trio pull off these covers exceptionally well, adding much to the rich melodies of such songs as “Paranoid Android”
and “Dear Prudence” while maintaining the original musical message and feel.

The future of jazz is unsure. While Wynton Marsalis et al. continue to celebrate the traditional roots of the genre,
Mehldau and Joshua Redman, to name a few artists, seem willing to explore new ideas and perhaps even cross over.into
other musical idioms for inspiration. Then again, one has to wonder how “dead” jazz really is as Norah Jones swept
the 2003 Grammys in grand fashion with a predominantly jazz-oriented first album. Perhaps this music can be revived by something
as simple as a pretty face. For now, we can only hope that Mehldau, Grenadier, and Rossy will continue to
keep alive the rich tradition of the jazz trio for many years to come.

Popular shoe of the season. They are suede flats reminiscent of your grandma’s snow shoes and there is a country-wide
two-month waiting list to obtain them. Unless you break into your grandma’s house and steal hers. I admit: I love
this boot. Yet so many people hate it. First, let us explore its merits. It is perhaps the most practical
shoe to have seized high-fashion popularity in many a winter. They have toasty warm sheepskin innards and a durable rubber
sole. They are not heels. They look like slippers undergoing a promotion—50 percent more free! Now covering your shins! Thus
they are perfect for nasty winter weather in stylish American urban centers—which have all foolishly been established in locations that
permit negative-degree weather. Of course, fur trappers and Puritans were clearly not shoe lovers. Yet I feel they might’ve liked
the Ugg boot.

Strangely, its most avid wearers seem to be located in Los Angeles where such stylish foot ovens seem unnecessary. Perhaps
this is one cause of the dislike of the Ugg boot. When one sees a picture of a celebrity trotting
around in 80-degree weather wearing a miniskirt, pasties, and Ugg boots, you think, whether you realize it or not, “I
bet her feet are sweating.” Ugg boots are thus unwittingly related by the collective unconscious to athlete’s foot and the
smell of mildew. Furthermore, such teeny tiny celebrities are the only individuals who can don the Ugg boot with a
miniskirt or capris or, if you’re Paris Hilton, chaps and a thong. Ugg-wearing commoners have probably anticipated the skirt-with-boot look
whilst purchasing their shoes, and been sorely disappointed with the ham-like appearance of their thighs when this look is actually
attempted before their bedroom mirror. Anything that is taupe in color, lacking a heel, or made to look like an
ankle cast, is not, how shall we say, slimming.

The Ugg brand has been sold in Australia for much of the twentieth century, and the boots were last trendy
amongst Australian surfers in the 1970s. Davidson students, who have enjoyed a semester abroad Down Under, have been angered by
their “unique” purchase of Ugg boots being trumped by B-list celebrities everywhere upon their return to the States. This is
the way of the American fashion industry. As soon as something is “discovered” by the famous, rich, or beautiful on
either coast, it never existed anywhere else.

I tuned into a television program this summer in which the designer Isaac Mizrahi, who is currently compromising his high-fashion
social stock by creating a line of clothes for Target, was allowed to peruse the gigantic accessories closet in the
offices of Vogue magazine. (Car lovers, imagine you have been miniaturized by Rick Moranis and placed inside the hood of
a Porsche, free to explore.) He clutched a pale blue Ugg boot and gasped, “The shoe of the season.” At
that moment, I too fell for the Ugg boot.

It is so easy to call the shoe “Ugg-ly” (the trendiest pun of the season). Yet there is something so
attractive about the “anti-fashion” shape of the shoe, because fashionistas love to slum. Shoe lovers understand the popularity of such
a high-low dichotomy. Would I really like the boot if no one else did? Probably not. Hype is a magical
thing. But there is also the pleasure of understanding something esoteric. (Every kid wants a secret code, you know.) So
can I explain the beauty of the Ugg to its critics? No. Nor can I understand the awesome power of
a boxy car covered in Kleenex logos driving in a circle at 200 miles per hour.

Applications are due February 13.
Interviews: February 16-20.
