7 x LIVING THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2004

Calling all carnivores: Atkins diet storms America

By Liz BILLET
Senior Staff Writer

One wonders at the recent barrage of Subway commercials featuring the banal yet somehow famous “Jared” and dewy close-ups of roast beef. Jared’s fall from obesity into the healthy median weight for his height, achieved through a diet of meat-intensive Subway sandwiches, is widely considered by Americans as a brand of “success” or “achievement.” At first openly embraced by all those hoping to find some healthy alternatives in a fast food nation, Subway has now more blatantly endorsed a specific road to weight loss: Atkins.

In 1972, “Dr. Atkins’ Diet Revolution” was published, and his innocuous last name was transformed into a fleshy synonym for diet, protein, fats, and health. In the mid-90s, Atkins released a new edition of his book (“Dr. Atkins’ New Diet Revolution”), reviving the high-protein, low-carb diet and confirming once and for all that the 80s were just a strange pasta-and-perm infused accident.

The concept behind the Atkins Diet is that one’s body burns carbohydrates and fat for energy. Thus, if carbohydrate intake is minimized, body fat is burned like Joan of Arc (as long as you assume her level of devotion to the diet plan). Subway’s new Atkins-Friendly sandwiches feature chunks of meat and cheese decorated with a variety of allegedly ethnic sauces. Perhaps this is a step up from standard Subway fare; paper-thin tortillas have replaced the usual stale rolls, which are made pliant only by oil and vinegar dressing or soaking wet “fresh” lettuce.

TGIFriday’s and Chili’s, two American standards owned by the same company, have also introduced similar Atkins dishes. One can now dine on Spinach Artichoke Dip with vegetables—“because tortilla chips are a no-no,” quotes the menu. Surely broccoli spears are healthier than crunchy slices of fried corn. But Atkins is enforcing stranger permutations on our diet ideologies. Cheeseburgers are golden tickets to the land of Slimdom while buns are evil carbohydrate bombs. Burger King and Hardee’s are featuring their new bunless burgers, which look disgusting in their greasy paper and lettuce wrapping. This is only the head of the meat-not-bread current, which incorporates everything from celebrity Zone Diet deliveries (another protein diet permutation) to protein shakes long endorsed by meatheads everywhere.

Movie Review - Tim Burton’s ‘Big Fish’

By STEVE KALISKI
Senior Staff Writer

Although “Big Fish” is an unbelievable movie, you get the impression while watching it that, in a certain, wondrous sense, director Tim Burton wants for it to be believable. For Burton, there is nothing more truthful than the heart of a tall tale, and his newest and most stellar film reminds us of the importance of our childhood fantasies. Wandering passionately and intimately through two enchanting hours, “Big Fish” crosses the finish line as the purest daydream to come out of Hollywood in a long time. It rescues Burton from an extended slump that included the dreary “Sleepy Hollow” and the catastrophic “Planet of the Apes.”

“Big Fish” also joins the elite core of films that compose the genre “Movies that Make Grown Men Cry.” Sporting one of the most dynamic father-son reconciliations since “Field of Dreams,” it plays the heartstrings gently without insisting that the audience well up with tears at every moment. Like a detective sifting his way through a mound of evidence, journalist Will Bloom (Billy Crudup) tolerates nothing but the facts. Frustratingly enough, his father Edward (Albert Finney) couldn’t care less about the facts. He raised his son with impossible stories about friendly giants, uncatchable fish, and prophetic

www.hardees.com
The Low Carb Thick Burger, from Hardee’s: 420 slim caloriesAmerican culture for going on ten years now still seems antithetical to many Americans raised on low-fat pasta dishes. Media coverage of protein diets still harps upon their seemingly unusual principles. Thus, the Atkins diet is not only a diet; it is a trend. When today’s children of the anti-corn grow up to be well-fed American adults, they will balk at the swaying tide of diet information—and surely it will turn. High-protein diets will seem status quo to growing generations, just as we believe that low-fat diets are “normal” healthy eating. Clearly, the Atkins diet works on some level. But so did the low-fat diets abounding in the previous decade. Low-fat diets have endured.

See Atkins, page 8

Truth in fairy tales, not facts

Witches, and he insists to his last breath that these are the true events of his life. When Will learns that the terminally ill Edward is nearing his final days, he renounces his father’s fabled history and vows to learn the truth behind the ceaseless stream of tall tales. Edward resists the literal interpretations of his son, forcing him to accept his view of life as an alternative form of reality. The film rotates between the sensitive, present-day scenes of Will and Edward’s dilemma and the beautifully rendered visions of Edward’s imagination. As the younger, unstoppably determined Edward, Ewan McGregor embarks on a legendary odyssey through the Deep South that is worthy of Forrest Gump’s voyage through history. Ambling and colorful, McGregor’s journey gives “Big Fish” its irresistibility. Burton paces it with a storyteller’s sense of timing, and writer John August, working from Daniel Wallace’s novel, textures the script with numerous go-getter American aphorisms. Such minor observations as a remark that goldfish can grow to three or four times their size if left in a bigger bowl are given heart as the ambitious Edward makes a name for himself in the world.

Just as every good fable has a series of morals and warnings, “Big Fish” accomplishes more than a simple bedtime story. Bloom’s episodes comment on love, success, and the fleetingness of perfect happiness. His first stop through Spectre, a beautiful, hidden town, seems less of a fairytale once the outside world learns of this community and buys it out to a financial demise. The performances succeed on every level. Between this and “Moulin Rouge,” McGregor can now stake a claim at having the most fun of any actor in the business. Finney, so Oscar-worthy in “Erin Brockovich” a couple of years ago, surpasses that work here with a touching and appropriately lively portrayal of the dying Bloom. Steve Buscemi, Helena Bonham Carter, and Danny DeVito all show up in memorable supporting roles. Still, the question of truth steals the show in “Big Fish.” By the end, Burton should have convinced even the most jaded literalist that there is some level of honesty to be found in a story of puffed-up imagination. The gospel of Edward Bloom may not work out logically on the page, but it reveals more about the fruits of human ambition than any of his son’s news stories.

TERRY’S TAXI
Serving Iredale and Mecklenburg County
24 Hour Service
Daytime: (704) 663-9411, (704) 663-9413
Evenings: (704) 663-8861, (704) 657-7134
If you need transportation to and from the airport, bus station, or other areas call Terry’s Taxi
Over 50 years of service

Big Fish
Directed by: Tim Burton
Written by: John August
Starring: Ewan McGregor, Albert Finney, Billy Crudup
Running time: 110 minutes