THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2004

Diversity, from page 1

agreed. “Our beliefs and traditions are well-respected,” she said.

Odeh cited the college’s willingness to learn and its desire for community gratification as reasons for Davidson’s commitment to religious diversity. “The school was open to allowing a Muslim Student Association, and President Vagt even looked for a prayer room for us immediately upon request,” she said. “I think students and other members of the community want to make sure that Davidson is a place of comfort for Muslim students, and in the three years that I have been here awareness of the Muslim tradition has grown tremendously.”

Other members feel the same way. “I would like to express my utmost gratitude to President Vagt and how he has, along with the many other special people on this campus, helped this school become more diverse and accepting of minorities,” said Faris Al Mazrui ’07, also a member of the Muslim Student Association.

Jill Williams, Assistant Director of the Lilly Programs for the Theological Exploration of Vocation, believes that it is because of our Reformed Christian tradition that we are respectful of different religious traditions. However, she also feels that the college is currently experiencing an identity crisis with regard to its Presbyterian heritage. “It is because of our Presbyterian heritage and not in spite of it that we are open to and respectful of all of the world’s religious traditions,” she said. “Some people think that the Reformed Christian tradition points us backwards to something that existed here at Davidson in the past to which we need to return and some people think that it points us to a more inclusive community toward which we are working in the future.”

Williams specified “the non-Christian student religious groups,” such as the Jewish Student Union (JSU) and the MSA, “all of Rob Spach’s programs, courses offered through the religion department and other departments, admissions office focus on recruitment of minorities of all kinds, and many of the Lilly Programs (Vocational Vertigo, Sustained Dialogue Groups, Summer Internships, Profs on God, Lilly Lecture Series, etc.), to name a few.

Efforts to promote religious diversity have recently increased. Both the JSU and the MSA have been founded in the past three years, as well as adjunct chaplains for the Jewish and Catholic traditions and a Religious Life Council. “This council provides a space where every student religious organization is represented, so that a variety of voices from different faith traditions can offer input into the options for religious life present at the college,” said Spach.

This past year, the college also approved an additional line item to the Chaplainry budget to provide college funding to help support activities and events planned by the Jewish Student Union, the Muslim Student Association, and Interfaith.

Although many believe that respect for different religious traditions has been sufficient, they also feel the college can improve in this area. “We are more receptive than the community at large, but are we as accommodating aswe could be? The answer is no and that’s why we keep working at it,” said President Bobby Vagt. Spach said that more attention should be tended toward the needs of different religious traditions. “We can provide students from other faith traditions (and the religious organizations that they form) with greater support and resources,” he said. “We can also raise awareness of the importance of various religious practices and holy days for various members of our community, so that we are better-informed college-wide in making decisions about scheduling events and potential conflicts with holy days.” He also felt that the different faith traditions on campus should be more educated and connected with each other. “We should be promoting dialogue and experiences in which people of different faith traditions can learn from each other and each other’s religious practices. Some of that has already begun to happen, but more could be done,” said Spach. Williams agreed. “More sustained attention should be paid to the unspoken messages we send to prospective and current students, faculty and staff through things such as scheduling important campus-wide events on major religious holidays and even the food we serve during these events,” she said. Williams also said the college should focus more on the spiritual aspect of students’ lives. “I think we should recognize the importance of all of Davidson’s employees and students because of who they are as opposed to what they do,” she said. “This could be done by placing more value on ‘Sabbath’ time for students and employees; a staff sabbath program would be another avenue of excellence.” Faith and reason must work together in mutual respect if Davidson is to realize and maintain this particular vision of a way to live out our Reformed Christian heritage in a progressive way.” Spach also said the continued recruitment of students from diverse faith backgrounds is essential to bridging the gap between different religious groups on campus. Many believe that allowing a non-Christian member on the Board of Trustees is essential to maintaining an openness and respect for all different religious traditions on campus. “I think keeping the requirement that trustees be Christian would prevent movement toward a more ideal and inclusive community,” said Williams. “Davidson is made up of many religious traditions, and each student, Christian or not, has spent four years here taking the same classes, participating in activities, and in general being part of Davidson’s community in the same way,” said Odeh. “I feel that everyone with a close connection to the college can contribute just as effectively to the Board of Trustees, and even non-Christians can bring a different perspective to the group and college to make it an even better environment.” MONDAY, LEARN HOW YOU CAN LEAD THE MOVEMENT TO END EDUCATIONAL INEQUITY. Wednesday, October 18, 8:00 pm * Tomlinson Hall With alumni guest speaker Lindsay Hughes, '00 OUR GENERATION MUST TAKE ON THIS ISSUE. TEACH FOR AMERICA www.teachforamerica.org For individuals of all academic majors and career interests. Full salary and health benefits.