12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Hey you SOCCER fans... BRONCOS' PICKS VETERAN OF a Wildcat game or practice session seriously opposes an all Southern Conference. Go tell how much the Wildcats have improved—they deserve some recognition.

Outside the Den:
MLB Playoff Baseball
Red Sox vs. Yankees
Wednesday, October 20, 8:00, FOX
Game Seven, Enough said.

SPORTS
By Wilson McCrory
Sports Editor

To honor Pat Tillman, the former Arizona Cardinals safety killed in action in Afghanistan this past spring, the NFL graciously allowed all teams to wear Tillman’s No. 40 decal on their helmets during Week 2 of the 2004 season. Don’t ask me why the NFL picked Week 2, or just one week for that matter, to allow the decals, but only the Cardinals will be allowed to sport the sticker on the backs of their helmets for the rest of the season. That means that Tillman’s close friend and former teammate at Arizona State and with the Cardinals, current Denver Broncos quarterback Jake Plummer, isn’t even allowed to honor the fallen soldier with a tiny sticker for the remainder of the season.

In a grave act of defiance, however, Plummer went against the hallowed NFL uniform policy in Week 5 and brought back the sticker against the Carolina Panthers. Like clockwork, the NFL let it be known that Plummer would soon be receiving a fine of up to $5,000 for the uniform violation, and would continue to be fined if the sticker appeared for future games.

Now, I don’t have a problem with the league trying to remain consistent in its uniform code, and would curse the day that they began to allow players to serve as walking billboards sold to the highest bidder. But the NFL’s obsession with uniform compliance goes beyond the call of duty. In Major League Baseball, for example, players may within reason write whatever they choose on their hats, and teams routinely change out sleeve decals to honor former players or events. When St. Louis Cardinal pitcher Darryl Kile died at age 33 of heart failure two years ago, the Cardinals quickly added a “DK57” patch on their left sleeve to complement a patch they were already wearing to commemorate the death of longtime announcer Jack Buck. Larger versions of the DK57 logo were also placed behind the plate and on the right field wall at Busch Stadium.

But in the NFL, where even an untucked shirt or a pair of pants that doesn’t go past the knees warrants a fine, a simple sticker was too much to handle. As the NFL said in a statement issued in response to Plummer, “We, too, want to continue to keep Pat Tillman’s legacy alive, but ... we have rules regarding personal messages on uniforms that we needed to apply consistently.”

While the league’s obsession with fashion seems a little childish, the NFL crossed the line with Plummer. Tillman represented what we should all aspire to; a man who selflessly gave of himself instead of relying on someone else to represent our nation. When guys like Ricky Williams are leaving the NFL to go smoke pot in Europe, the NFL should do everything it can to remember Tillman and make him the poster child for what the league wants to be. But the NFL instead fell woefully short in honoring Tillman. A small sticker for one week...

see McCrory, page 13

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Columnist

I’m really not ready to write this. Not after spending the last six hours on a roller coaster I couldn’t get off. Indeed, game five of the ALCS beat around my emotions the same way eight-year-olds abuse pinatas. But instead of tootsie rolls and a sugar high, I got to watch the Red Sox beat the Yankees in back-to-back extra inning playoff games on the same day. Like Hartford—the Whale—beating Vancouver in NHL94 for Sega (warning: obscure MallRats reference), such an event happens once, maybe twice in a lifetime.

Unless you haven’t left the library since Homecoming, you know about the Red Sox and Yankees series. Games four and five lasted a combined 26 innings and close to 11 hours, more closely resembling cricket than our national pastime... But raise your hand if you’re like me and actually watched those two marathons.

Now

By AUSTIN MERCADANTE
Senior Staff Writer

Leverett has career day

Football star John Leverett ’05 was named the Pioneer Football League’s Co-Offensive Player of the Week on Oct. 11 for his performance against Jacksonville. While Davidson lost in the final minutes, 29-26, Leverett tied his career best with 259 yards rushing on 30 carries. Ironically, his 259-yard day left him again just one yard shy of the single-game...Rushing record, held by Ray Sinclair ’82. Leverett has a chance to best Sinclair in a more prestigious mark, however, as Leverett’s 2,835 yards rushing leave him just 250 yards short of the former Wildcat on the all-time rushing list.

Math overload
With the 14-10 victory over Morehead State at home on Saturday, Davidson kept alive hopes for grabbing the PFL South title. However, to have any chance at first place, Morehead State must defeat Jacksonville in their next game, but Morehead State must allow at least 25 to Jacksonville. If Davidson had defeated Jacksonville at home over fall break, however, the Wildcats would have been in the driver’s seat to host the PFL Championship game on Nov. 20.

Golf winding down fall season
The golf team finished eighth out of 19 teams in the recent Xavier Invitational, shooting a team score of 877 in the 54-hole tournament. Junior Christian Davis ’06 led the Wildcats with a 221 that tied for 39th overall. Junior Tim Dillon ’06 was close behind in 41st place, and Joe Zimmerman ’05 was 49th.

Offense awakens
Women’s soccer has been on a rampage since it was noted here that they had been on a scoring drought of sorts, as October brought a scoring deluge for the Wildcats. The soccer team has outscored opponents 17-1 in the past four games, including 12 scores against the Citadel. As a result, the team is now 6-1 in conference play, a far cry from the 3-5-2 mark last year that left the Wildcats out of postseason play for the first time in team history.

Men avenge 2003 NCAA loss
After a disappointing stretch in late September and early October, men’s soccer looks to be on the upswing again. A 4-2 win over Mercer and a tie with Coastal Carolina indicate that the team is ready to move on and make the best of what’s left of the season. In last year’s NCAA tournament, Coastal Carolina defeated Davidson 3-0 in the first round, ending Davidson’s short-lived appearance in the tournament. Davidson has seven games in the next 20 days that will decide the postseason standings. If the Wildcats get hot, they could ride a wave of victories to the Southern Conference Tournament. However, as of now, Davidson is 0-2 in league play.

Freshmen focus
While it is no surprise that women’s cross country has been one of the Southern Conference’s strongest teams this year, the core group for the Wildcats has been somewhat unexpected. Davidson returned three former All-conference performers this year, as well as a roster full of upperclassmen experience, but a trio of freshmen has powered the Wildcats of late. Brittany Crawford ’08 is challenging Kelly Fillnow ’05 for the top spot on the team, and Brenna Burns ’08 and Annie O’Donnell ’08 are also in the top-five for the Wildcats.

Give yourself a pat on the back because listening to Joe Buck and Tim McCarver call a baseball game may be worse than those PE 101 lectures we’ve all suffered through. Tough call: would you rather give CPR to a doll that half your class has licked, or slowly go insane while Buck and McCarver exhibit about as much personality as the aforementioned doll? And someone please explain the difference between Al Leiter and Scooter the lunatic baseball. For me, they both perform the same function: absolutely nothing. But enough about the talking heads; let’s focus on the series. We’ll skip the first three games, of course, because I’m a Red Sox fan and don’t want to talk about them—despite recent rumors, this column is not a democracy. However, I will say that no team in baseball history has come back to win a seven-game series after trailing, 3-0. Same for the NBA. For solace, Red Sox Nation remembers the last team to come back from 3-0 down, the 1975 New York Islanders, which really isn’t all that bad. Consider: most hockey players are ugly and have mullets—same goes for the 2004 edition of the Red Sox. You have to understand, whereas most of Boston drinks from a half-empty glass, mine is always half-filled with champagne. So, as dramatic as Big Papi’s game-ending donkey was, it didn’t really surprise me. After all, there are certain things in life that will never happen. No matter how many times you watch Top Gun, Goose will never live—that’s still really difficult for me to grasp. Same idea here: the Yankees sweeping the Sox at Fenway during the playoffs is an impossibility. And strangely, I felt confident about our chances in game five, although I had no reason to. Despite starting out 2004 a dominant 16-4, Pedro Martinez has asserted his insanity of late, and whereas once any start of his was a guaranteed win, these days you sit around.