THE DAVIDSONIAN

From Baseball, page 12

headed North for the lake called the Baltimore Orioles. Atlanta, of course, has finished on top of the National League East since 1995. Over the last few seasons, however, the nucleus of those talented teams has moved elsewhere, including Greg Maddux, who fled for Chicago only weeks ago. Baltimore has not finished better than 13.5 games out of first place since 1998. This winter, though, the Orioles picked up several prominent free agents, including Miguel Tejada and Javy Lopez, and will battle for the Wild Card.

Indeed, baseball fans in Charlotte are unfairly neglected and confused. Everyone needs a Major League team in the way that everyone needs a best friend and a cool scar. Charlotte provides plenty of opportunities to watch good baseball: there’s the triple-A Charlotte Knights and the single-A Kannapolis Intimidators, not to mention the various colleges and high schools in the area. But there’s no big league franchise. It’s like being stuck in Chuck-E-Cheese your whole life when all you want to do is visit Carowinds.

Charlotte baseball fans, then, must offer their support to either Baltimore (440 miles away) or Atlanta (240 miles). If there is any upside to this whole dilemma it’s that the Braves (NL) and Orioles (AL) play in different leagues, so technically you could root for both teams without encountering the problem of them playing each other. But that’s like dating one girl at school, and another at home. At some point, things are going to get messy.

Ten years ago, this absence of a big league team was understandable. Charlotte was a city on the rise, and could not possibly have funded and supported a Major League team. According to a July 2002 Census, however, Charlotte now boasts an urban population of around 600,000, on par with Boston and Milwaukee and well ahead of Cleveland and Kansas City, all cities with well-established ballclubs. With no other team within a four-hour drive, a wide-open, unchallenged market exists right in our backyard. The pieces are in place, we just need some clever, preferably rich, individual to complete the puzzle.

March Madness ends next week, and the NBA Playoffs extend only so far into the summer, leaving plenty of free time on the sports calendar, and one can play only so much golf before going clinically insane. So here’s to putting a Major League team in the Queen City. After all, it’s getting hot in this desert and the people are thirsty.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 31, 2004

Golf team shows consistency, improvement at Furman

By JACKSON HERLONG
Staff Writer

The golf team traveled to Greenville, SC this weekend to compete in the Furman Intercollegiate Tournament. The team had a solid but unspectacular outing, performing consistently across the three-day competition. The ’Cats’ lowest score came on the first day with a 303, good for tenth place out of 20 competing teams. Steve Mayo ’07 carded a stellar 70 for the round, the second-best score of the day, which was good for third place. Day twosaw three strokes added to the first-round score, with the team shooting a 306. They rounded it out with a 304 on the third day to finish in 14th place as a team. Spearheading this consistency was Alex Knoll ’07, who shot a three-over-par 75 each day to finish as the team’s leader in 23rd place. “I played steady golf for three days, even though it wasn’t my best,” said Knoll of his performance. Though consistent, the team was unsatisfied with their performance, with Knoll describing it as “poor.” Tim Dillon ’06, who struggled on the first day but finished the third with the ’Cats’ low for the day at a one-over-par 73, was upbeat about the team’s improvement of late, saying, “At Furman, everyone showed signs of improvement. Although we didn’t play well, you could see a difference between how we played at Furman and how we played at Birkdale two weeks earlier.” The Wildcats shot a 938 over three rounds to finish 11th out of 15 teams in the Birkdale Collegiate Golf Classic, the team’s home tournament. Knoll ’07 shot 75 in all three rounds, finishing a team-best 23rd overall. The team has one more tournament coming up at Wofford on April 9-10 before the Southern Conference Championship rolls around. Knoll has a positive outlook for the team’s chances at the conference championship. He believes winning the title to be as simple as “having four guys play well every day instead of a different guy each round.”

Scott, Noreen finish fifth in respective events for ’Cats
By AUSTIN MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

Last weekend, the track and field team traveled to Atlanta to compete at the Emory Classic. Although only a limited number of athletes ran in the meet, all those that competed ran splendid races. Greg Scott ’04 was the top finisher for the Wildcats in the 1500-meter run. His time of 3:57.59 earned him fifth place, with Nick Lehman finishing behind him at 12th in 4:03.23. In the 800, Doug Noreen ’07 ran a team-best 1:55.45 to finish in fifth. The next Davidson finishers were Andrew Hazen ’07 and Rob Whited ’07, in 2:00.49 and 2:01.75, respectively. In the sprints, several ’Cats set seasonal bests. Andrew Pratt ’04 ran 11.32 in the 100-meter dash and 22.89 in the 200. Chris Rouisse ’04 ran 400 meters in 51.34 seconds, his best race this season. David Ritchie ’07 and Johannes Norling ’04 both improved on their previous 400-meter hurdle times, with Ritchie running 56.26 and Norling running 58.91. Davidson’s relay teams put forth a great team effort in running some blazing relay times. The 4 by 400-meter team of Rouisse, Pratt, Noreen, and Ritchie finished fifth, in a time of 3:23.72. The 4 by 100-meter team of Pratt, Ritchie, Rouisse, and Bialas finished sixth, in 43.12. Both were the fastest times for a Davidson team in several years.

Salute your graduating classmates
The Davidsonian is offering reduced price ads for students in our Senior Salute section starting at just $20. Contact lafilosa