THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Sigma Chi fails to receive charter
Return of Kappa Sig now pitted against Outpost

By BEN WHIGHAM
Staff Writer

After the Kappa Sig fraternity lost its charter and its house last year, there has been an empty spot on Patterson Court. Despite the vacancy, the administration does not plan to make any immediate changes to the Court’s present structure. Although currently banned from the court, Kappa Sig is still eligible to return to the court next year. The group has not yet contacted the administration, and their silence tentatively leaves an empty space on the court.

A group of students attempted to fill the void by proposing a Davidson branch of Sigma Chi. The administration, however, has not expressed interest in expanding the Court. “The school is not interested,” said Ryan Aponte ’07, one of the students attempting to found a Sigma Chi branch. “They think bringing another frat would weaken the Court.”

Dean of Students Tom Shandley explained the administration’s stance on the push for Sigma Chi. “A fraternity must be invited by the institution. They don’t come without an invitation.” The Davidson administration has sent no such invitation to Sigma Chi’s national chapter. “We’re not looking to expand,” said Shandley, who has been in contact with the students. “We’re trying to make the current groups as successful as possible.”

Shandley noted that Court membership has increased over years past and hopes to see the trend continue. The administration’s negative response has not ended the push for Sigma Chi. Its supporters enjoy strong backing from the national chapter and are formulating other proposals that would land the fraternity off the court.

The second possibility for the empty house is the Outpost. While widely discussed, the Outpost’s return still faces a few challenges. “There is no plan to build additional structures on the Court,” said Shandley. This stance has led to talk of pitting Kappa Sig’s return against the Outpost. “If it’s a matter of a convenient quesadilla or giving Kappa Sig a place to come back to, I think I can manage to walk up the hill,” said Warner President Rachael Voyles ’05.

Kappa Sig’s return will leave no existing structure to house the Outpost. Still, Shandley discourages viewing the situation as “Kappa Sig versus the Outpost.” “It is not fair to pin the existence of the Outpost against Kappa Sig,” he added. “We’re not ruling out anything. All will be considered.”

The situation on the court is still uncertain. Summing up the administration’s current outlook, Shandley offered four words: “We have no idea.”

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 2004

Letter from the president

Dear Students,

As the spring winds down, the Davidson community reflects on the happenings of the past year. Freshmen say goodbye to their first year of college, and seniors say goodbye to Davidson. It has been a good year.

This semester the Student Government Association built on our success from the first semester. CatCard use off campus is finally available and cable will be an option in the fall. SGA’s Athletic Committee was very busy. We took five packed buses to the UNC-Chapel Hill basketball game in Charlotte to support our Cats. We also co-sponsored a fundraiser during the baseball and lacrosse games with Turner House and Phi Delta Theta, raising around $2,000 for the Ada Jenkins after-school enrichment program.

As the weather warmed up, “April at the Lake” became a reality. Hundreds of students gathered at the lake to eat burgers, listen to a band, swim, play volleyball, and socialize with those they already knew and those they might not have known so well before.

Academically, we pushed for the extension of the pass/fail deadline recently passed by the faculty. Students now have an extra three weeks to declare their intention of pass/fail. We also strove to find a compromise between those students who believe that candidates for Honor Council should be allowed to campaign and those who think the regulations should remain as they were. After amendments, the SGA bylaws now allow candidates running for Honor Council to submit a 100-word statement to be distributed via email to the student body.

SGA strives to fulfill the desires and needs of students in all facets of student life ranging from athletics, social life, and academics. The above are visible changes that students can see. However, there is much hard work that goes on behind the scenes. I would like to thank all the people involved in SGA this year for their dedication and enthusiasm.

Good luck with exams, have a wonderful summer, and please let me know if there is anything I can do to make this amazing community we live in even better.

Sincerely,
Katharine Hubbard
SGA President

Cable, from page 1

After considering eight or nine companies, Campus Tele Video was decided on because it focuses on colleges and provided the most service for the least amount of money. Its “technical and customer support are much more expansive,” said Marsicano. “For obvious reasons we are not satisfied with Adelphia.” Marsicano described the reception in Martin Court as “perfectly terrible.” Adelphia also just finished a repair last week that they were notified about in October.

By Lestiz HEMPSON
Senior Staff Writer

Director of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano said that far fewer students were placed on this year’s waitlist for on-campus housing than last year’s. Although only 20 students, all men, currently...Occupy a spot on the waitlist. At this point last year, 70 to 80 students had requested an on-campus room but did not receive one. Marsicano said that RLO had already spoken with Physical Plant about the possibility of placing some of the 20 wait-listed students in two or three off-campus homes owned by the College next year. This year, RLO requires the use of seven off-campus homes owned by the College. According to Marsicano, RLO granted off-campus housing permission to every student who requested it this year. That, when combined with the greater number of students studying abroad next fall, might have contributed to the relatively small waitlist. RLO must wait until May 1, the deadline for accepted students to inform the College that they will be attending school here in the fall, before it can more accurately determine how many beds it will have available for upper-class students.

Housing waitlist notably shorter than before

Last year, more acceptees than expected decided to enroll at Davidson, and as a result, RLO had to scramble to find enough beds for everybody who had requested on-campus housing. RLO has set aside exactly 464 beds for prospective first-year students. Marsicano said if the college does not exceed its target of 460 first-year enrollees, there should be 36 to 40 additional beds available for upper-class students on 1st Belk. 1st Belk rooms are not assigned during the regular housing lottery as a precaution against an unusually large first-year class. Wait-listed students will receive an e-mail from RLO towards the beginning of the summer detailing the rooms and beds that will be available next fall. Students with the highest lottery numbers will get to pick first, followed in order of descending lottery number by other students on the waitlist. RLO will notify all wait-listed students by June 15 of their room assignment for next year. Marsicano expressed confidence that the 20 wait-listed students will likely receive on-campus housing. She said that each summer, about 40 students decide not to live at Davidson in the fall because they plan to transfer to another college, take a semester off, or go abroad.

Most students on the waitlist expressed little anxiety about not having a room. Sarah Boyce ’07 said, “I’m not really concerned at all about it. From what I’ve heard, we’ll probably get a room either on 1st Belk, in an upperclassman dorm, or off-campus, all of which would be fine with me.” Lindsay DeCastrique ’07 agreed. “It is impossible to make everyone happy with their room assignment. [My roommate and I] simply had bad numbers this time, yet I’ve heard that the waitlist can sometimes work out for the best,” she said. Ted Emerson ’06, who did not receive a room in last year’s housing lottery, expressed mixed feelings about his own experience with the waitlist. “Being on the waitlist actually improved our ability to get a better room. Because many students found out late about studying abroad or off-campus housing, we were able to have choices for living up the hill. However, we ended up living in a former lounge because our standing on the waitlist was not that high and so all of the better rooms were already taken by people higher on the list,” he said. Marsicano said, “I know it’s hard for students to wait, to not know where they’re going to live next year, but we really are doing our best to [first of all], find a bed for them and [second of all], find a bed that they like.”

Concert, from page 1

Attend the concert with another 200 saying they would probably attend. Ben Folds also received more votes than other groups such as Live and O.A.R. in previous surveys. Brown described the cost of the concert as “less than the John Mayer fee, but nothing like Bill Cosby or Dave.” Public safety and Show Pros will regulate crowd management, and one of the athletic teams will direct parking. Because the 650 in community ticket sales translate to approximately 300 cars, Brown does not anticipate that parking will cause any significant conflicts. MTVu, the college-based extension station of MTV, will also be at Davidson in order to film Ben Folds’ performance for a new television show called “The Road Trip Tour.” The premise of the show consists of broadcasting the performances of various artists, including Wyclef Jean, O.A.R., and Kanye West, as they perform at different campuses across the country. Davidson has been chosen as the setting for the Ben Folds section of the show. In addition to filming the concert, MTVu will be at Baker Sports Complex throughout the day getting behind-the-scenes footage of the show. They will also conduct an interview with the talent and possibly others involved with the concert, including students. The performance will likely be broadcast on MTVu this summer.

Several students have shown enthusiasm for the event. “I’ve been waiting to see Ben Folds for a while,” said Lauren Conn ’06. Many others have expressed disappointment at the Union’s selection for a performer. “Last year’s concert was great having Dave Matthews come, but this year it’s hard for me to get excited about Ben Folds, someone who I don’t know all that much about,” said Christian Davis ’06. Thomas Jeter ’06 agreed. “Davidson’s concerts have no diversity, and are all geared for the same audience, leaving a large group of students desiring to hear alternate genres of music.”