THE DAVIDSONIAN

Crime ‘kings’ one step to being dethroned

A string of automobile break-ins have recently occurred in the campus parking lots. Campus police immediately began pouring all their resources into the case, and within a short period of time, came up with an artist’s rendition of the criminals. As it turns out, the artist’s sketch was nearly identical to file photos of the crime trio known to most of the world as “The Three Kings.” Their name is derived, ironically enough, from the Biblical story of the three kings (found in Matthew 2:7-12). There is one major difference, however, between the crime trio and the biblical wise men: the modern Three Kings steal gifts, rather than giving them.

These Three Kings of Orient are wanted in 4 countries in addition to the United States and it appears that they have struck again, this time in Satellite Parking. This crime spree comes only two months after their latest caper in Japan. The trio entered through the ceiling of Tokyo’s National Museum, disarmed the security system, defeated several samurai guards (subsequently removing their top knots), and stole the ancient Cloud-Cluster sword of Sosanoo. According to legend, Sosanoo first acquired the mythical sword when he was in banishment and an eight-headed dragon had eaten up all the virgins in the land. He then offered the dragon an intoxicating drink, slew him, and removed from his tail the magnificent sword. The Cloud-Cluster sword, later renamed the Grass-mower by Yamato Takeru, became one of the three emblems of Japanese sovereignty. The Japanese are offering a generous reward for the capture of the criminals and safe return of their sword. This reward could potentially be a tremendous help to the Campus Police department.

According to sources within the Campus Police, now that the trio has been spotted in Davidson, it is surely only a matter of time before they are apprehended. In addition to the aforementioned sword, they are also wanted for the theft of seven Fabergé eggs, the Emerald Scepter of Arrabar, and several car stereos. One anonymous freshman girl reports she saw the criminals lurking around behind Akers. “They said they wanted to go somewhere they could get good spaghetti and I saw them board a plane with a green, white, and orange flag.”

MET-Rx® Presents: Joe “Big Dawg” Biggs

A lesson in Commons etiquette

Aight, y’all know me. It’s “BIG DAWG,” from the football team. Since I’m such a big man around campus, the newspaper wanted me to write about some issues messing up our campus. Today I will talk about a major issue right now, especially with all the new froshies. And that issue I like to call: ‘Commons etiquette.’

First off, the football table is for football players ONLY. I may not be the smartest nerd on campus, but it’s easy enough to know which table is the football table. For those of you who are still clueless or really dense in the cerebellum: It’s the one the football players ALWAYS sit at by the right sideline with the chef’s table. Next to the baseball table. Duh.

Last Sunday brunch, there was a whole hall full of froshies sitting there. I mean, do I ever try to sit over at any of the other tables at any point during the year, even if my non-football friends are there? No, not unless someone takes our table. Which is what happened last week, and we had to split up to like 3 or 4 different tables. It sucked big time. With all the sprints we have to do during practices, you’d think people would respect us wanting to walk the least amount possible when we're eating in commons. We literally tear up the fields we practice on, and have to move to different ones because we make them into big sand pits which are dangerous to practice on. That’s a hardcore workout. And to do those hardcore workouts we need to be well energized and well hydrated. Which brings me to my second point:_ I'm sick and tired of non-athletes drinking all the Powerade. Especially the blue Powerade on the Chef's table side. There’s nothing that pisses me off more than pushing that button and watching clear Powerade come out. Then you walk to the FOOTBALL TABLE and on your “I’m sick and tired of the non-athletes drinking all the Powerade” way see some skinny punk who you know has never played a sport other than foosball with 3 glasses of blue Powerade getting BBQ sauce for his waffle fries. It makes me want to knock his tray on the ground and then do 400 pushups. You know that athletes need to replenish their energy that we lose every day in tough practices. When non-athletes drink it all, what are we supposed to do? Anybody seen “Remember the Titans?” Excuse me, I need to go get my catcard back, I left it on the tray when it went on the belt to the kitchen. Now I have an excuse to hit on the employees back there. Be sure to write that tip down.

Introducing the first of a series of comics by Jeff Yeakel about a man with no concept of numbers.

What time is it? I have no clue what you're talking about! The sun is shining! OH NO!!!

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2004

Juggaloz converge on Davidson

An almost comic mix-up caused thousands of fans of a popular musical group to descend on the Davidson College campus. Fans of the rap-metal band the Insane Clown Posse, famous for their hits such as “Ghetto Freak Show,” shared the belief that Davidson was hosting a convention for band devotees, when in fact it was a festival for jugglers. The erroneous notion stemmed from the strong similarity between the word “jugglers” and the pet name for Insane Clown Posse followers, “Juggaloz.”

Followers of ICP, the Detroit-based duo of Violent J and Shaggy 2 Dope, regard themselves as part of a counter-culture cult and consider the band to be prophets. According to Juggalo Mark Smith ’06, the confusion began when he misread a news release on the Davidson College website about the “Hurricane Hugo Juggling Festival.” Said Smith, “I was going to check out my Juggalo message board when I saw an article about what I thought was Juggaloz. I thought I was tripping, cause Davidson is the most stale place in the world, filled with richies, scrubs, and chickens, and I was gonna have to give it some props finally, cause finally some of the Dark Carnival was gonna reach the Echo Side up in this place. Plus, I was thinking that I could finally meet myself a juggalette.”

Smith then posted the pertinent information on the main Juggalo message board, where news of the convention spread quickly. Expecting there to be a large meet-up of Juggaloz, the ICP fans soon made plans to be at Davidson from September 3 through September 5. Sure enough, on September 5 the deluge of Juggaloz began. “The satellite and Baker parking lots were both filled,” recalled Pat Kelly '07, “and there were all these guys with shaved heads and face-paint milling around first Belk. The line for the Union cafe was out the door.”

The mix-up soon became obvious to the Juggaloz, when instead of finding Violent J and Shaggy 2 Dope they found Davidson College director of media relations, Bill Giduz, and other juggling aficionados. After the error became clear, some on campus at first feared a riot of upset and misled students, but their worries proved unfounded. Explained Mel Hall ‘05, “At first, those guys looked pretty angry. I kept hearing them mention something about ‘scrubs’ and being ‘down with the clown.’ But soon, they started just hanging out around campus like Davidson students. I met a bunch of Juggaloz down at KA and then a whole group of them watching Cast Iron Filter at Summit. I could have sworn I even saw one Juggalo in the 24-hour room at the library.”