THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2004 B

Men’s Golf ready to bust out the clubs and break records

Co-Captain Dan Walker ’05 shows graceful form all the way through his swing in preseason practice.

By Brian HELFRICH
Staff Writer

Amidst the anticipation of the fall sports season, one deserving group of Davidson athletes often gets overlooked and overshadowed: the
men’s golf team. It is hard for the team to garner the respect it deserves because golf is hardly a
viewer-friendly sport, especially at the collegiate level. While the football and soccer teams gain fan support because students can watch
the teams on campus, the golf team is not as fortunate. Despite their lack of recognition among the Davidson community,
the men’s golf team brings a lot of talent and expectations into the 2004 season.

Led by head coach Tim Straub, the team’s competitive season spans the entire school year. Their schedule includes tournaments in
Ohio this fall and Florida in the spring, and will eventually culminate with the Southern Conference Championships in April, hosted
by Davidson College.

With the core of last year’s team returning, both Straub and the players are expecting success this year. Straub says,
“We have all of our top players from last year back, including last year’s Co-MVPs Tim Dillon ’06 and Steve
Mayo ’07.” Mayo surprised many and impressed more with his stellar play, and Dillon’s standout play paralleled the success he
too had experienced freshman year.

In addition to Dillon and Mayo, the ’Cats squad includes a deep pool of talented golfers. Captains Dan Walker ’05
and Peyton Gallagher ’05 lead the young but experienced crew into battle. The tremendous depth that the ’Cats have should
propel all of the golfers to perform well, as only the top five players compete in matches.

In preparation for a potential Southern Conference Championship and at-large bid into the NCAA tournament, the team faces the strongest
schedule that it has ever faced.

Straub’s excitement and hopes for the upcoming season come with great confidence. “I am very excited about this year. We
have a team of ten guys who all work very hard.” Walker also echoes Straub’s belief in the depth and
quality of the golfers, as he said, “Our team has a bunch of guys who played well last year and
this summer. We have the potential to have a great year.”

This summer, Alex Knoll ’05 qualified for the U.S. Public Links Championship and Dillon placed an impressive 13th out of
156 golfers in the North Carolina Amateur. Coming off a great spring season and an even better summer, the young
but talented Men’s Golf squad will look to put their name on the map this year as one of Davidson’s
best teams.

Field Hockey looks to build on ’03 success

By Britt MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

Hot off a season in which the field hockey team managed to compile its first-ever winning record in the NorPac
Conference (4-2), a regular season championship in the East Division of the NorPac Conference, and a seven-game winning streak, the
Wildcats were not content to just sit around and bask in their success. Instead, they have avoided the complacency that
so often follows such success to put in their best pre-season work in recent memory.

“We’ve been lifting, running, and training and pushing ourselves to our outer limits with the mindset of an awesome season
in our visions. We’ve been working harder than ever,” said Liz Meltzer ’07, who last year won the Most Improved
Award on the team.

Tiffany Hoffman ’05, named to the All-NorPac Second Team last year, said, “Our pre-season so far has been the best
I have ever been a part of. Everyone on the team came in strong, in shape, and ready to play.”

With eight starters and six more varsity letter-winners returning, expectations for the upcoming season are high, especially since there is
an exciting new class of gifted freshmen rolling in to Davidson.

Courtney Hughes ’05 said, “Our freshmen are very skilled and are already very experienced...everyone is extremely excited for the 2004
season.”

A common motif echoed by members of the team is the strong chemistry amongst the players. Molly Blackman ’06 says,
“There is a great sense of trust on and off the field that allows us to keep focused on what
we need to do to get the job done.” Hughes adds that “there is a team chemistry that goes beyond
my comprehension.”

The Wildcats start the season with only three out of their first 12 games at home, including matches at reigning
NCAA champion Wake Forest on Wednesday and against NCAA runner-up Duke on October 3rd.

The Wildcats, though, end the regular season with three out of their last four games at home. The team is
looking forward to student support, as Blackman said, “We love our fans.”

For the first time ever, Davidson College will also play host to the NorPac Conference Tournament.

The NorPac Conference consists of Davidson, Appalachian State, Radford, and Saint Louis University in the East Division and Stanford, University
of California, Southwest Missouri State University, and the University of the Pacific in the West Division. The ’Cats will not
play their home opener until September 19th when they host Longwood.
