Movie Review
By STEVE KALISKI
THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2004

Sharks, Camera, Action! - Bad Luck or Reality?

Senior Staff Writer

Michael Moore would love “Open Water.” Not only would he admire director Chris Kentis’s grimy attempt at joining the “Fahrenheit 9/11” mastermind’s fellowship of make-believe documentary filmmakers, but Moore would also praise Kentis’s stunning ability to make audiences furious at inconveniently stupid people. After seeing “Open Water,” you will want to rise up in revolution against all of the inane dive instructors in the world who leave their clients lost at sea.

OK, so it may be a bit of a stretch to call “Open Water” an issue-oriented movie. But while Bush and Kerry would be at a loss for words to describe it, I can tell you that this latest entry into the minimalist digital video movement is an incredibly unpleasant, slightly chilling, and utterly convincing mixed-bag. Propelled forth by a seemingly innocuous case of human carelessness, this story of two married scuba divers stranded in the ocean doesn’t frighten nearly as much as it provokes. The sharks that eventually terrorize this tragically unfortunate couple appear and disappear in brief flashes, but the despairing mood cast by the absolutely avoidable helplessness of the divers lingers well past the conclusion.

Regardless, “Open Water,” clocking in at a hassle-free 79 minutes, offers its viewers enough cinematic novelties to justify the price of admission. Susan and Daniel (played by good sports Blanchard Ryan and Daniel Travis) desperately need a vacation. The stress of their respective jobs has plunged their marriage into monotony, and a spontaneous island vacation might be the only cure.

However, when a seriously shoddy roll call aboard a diving boat incorrectly assumes that Susan and Daniel are present and accounted for, the two find themselves drifting aimlessly in the sea without a vessel in sight. The remainder of the film focuses less on what happens to the couple than what doesn’t happen to them. The drama of “Open Water” relies heavily upon the dread of isolation that Susan and Daniel must face with each increasingly desperate hour. When the pesky sharks finally arrive, the two naive travelers realize that their worst diving nightmare might be coming true.

Is “Open Water” scary? The answer to that question depends on how much you need to see in order to be frightened. If you couldn’t sleep for weeks following “The Blair Witch Project,” then the almost implied thrills of this very, very realistic movie might appeal to you. Then again, “Blair Witch” benefited from an enthralling mythology and an intriguing supernatural element. In “Open Water,” however, what you see is what you get. If you, like me, will never have the slightest incentive to scuba dive, this movie may simply feel like someone else’s bad luck.

The one indisputable truth that does emerge from “Open Water” is that Kentis and his actors have crafted a stunningly believable movie. Ryan and Travis exchange dialogue that most Hollywood screenwriters would dismiss as bland but that works wonders for the couple’s chemistry here. You never doubt for one moment that Susan and Daniel love each other, hate their jobs, and are unable to comprehend the mess that they’ve inherited. In terms of searching for a universal theme in a film that appeals only to a specific demographic, Kentis captures that notion of “how the hell could this happen?” with complete confidence.

Calling “Open Water” a shark movie or a creature feature only sets up an audience for disappointment. These sharks do not have the personified malevolence of the villains in the “Jaws” franchise; here, they just act as they naturally would around scrumptious, bobbing fish bait. If “Open Water” casts a spell, it relies on the audience’s empathy for the couple’s plight, not to mention their anger at the fools who left them floating in the middle of nowhere.

---

Jim Dine Prints’ Reflect Life Through Imagery, Lost Symbols

Jim Dine Prints: 1985-2002. Creative type: Davidsonians in the arts

By ANDY MARTIN
Arts & Living Editor

Minutes into a conversation over carne asada at a hip Central Avenue Charlotte taqueria, it becomes readily apparent that in conversations with ‘Libertas’ editor Andrew Haupt ‘05, there are rarely pregnant pauses.

“He comes from a large Catholic family and he has a twin sister, so he always talks fast. He had to work to get in a word edgewise at the dinner table. And it’s also because he thinks fast,” says longtime friend and Libertas section editor Pat Duncan ‘05. Duncan continues, obviously amused but affectionate, “He manages the creative process at ‘Libertas’ by being...Ahead of the big loud family that exists in staff meetings, he’s up for anything; he’s a good sport. I mean, last week when I knocked on his door at 3 a.m. and asked if he wanted to go for a bike ride, he was all for it. Two hours later we wound up on our bikes in Mooresville.”

By Darryl RATCLIFF
Staff Writer

Chainsaws, copper plates, power grinders, homemade cookies, stunning young women, and free libations. This Thursday past’s opening of The Jim Dine Prints 1985-2002 at the Belk Visual Arts Center’s in-house gallery had it all. Born in Cincinnati in 1935, Dine, a major New York artist, is closely associated with the development of Pop Art in the early 1960s. The current exhibition, in the VAC’s William H. Every, Jr. and Edward M. Smith Galleries, features thirty-eight of Dine’s finest prints from the last twenty years. Brad Thomas, gallery director and curator, calls the show, “A very significant exhibition. You see lots of repeated imagery indicative of his style as painter, draftsman, and printmaker.”

Dine’s prints grapple with many familiar themes such as youth, desire, sexuality, longing, and mortality. “A person who has made art his life. He is living and relaying himself through these images.” - Brad Thomas

According to Thomas, this honesty is part of what makes Dine’s work so memorable. “You get a view into a person’s life. A person who has made art his life. He is living and relaying himself through these images. He is showing us his journey through mortality.” Images recurrent in Dine’s work include the skull and skeletal figures representing mortality. Others, like his prints of Pinocchio, reference youth and desire. Dine’s headless female figures, evocative of the Venus de Milo, represent sexuality and longing.

At the gallery opening, it was clear that Jim Dine was a Davidson hit. “I’ve never seen a show like this. It is interesting how he is able to transform objects in a unique and innovative way,” said art history major Andrew Gibbons, ’05. Crowds included a cross-section of interested students and visitors to campus, and, most importantly, not just art people. “With so much texture and color, it is an exhibit that even people who don’t know much about art can enjoy,” said Martelle Esposito ’08. ‘The Jim Dine Prints’ will be on display in the Belk Visual Arts Center until October 6.

Being a good sport is sometimes required of a senior who manages Davidson’s only student-run magazine. ‘Libertas’ has been attacked for frivolity and for profanity, facing complaints from students and administrators. “I remember freshman year, I was delivering issues and I was practically accosted by most of the people I delivered it to. People were telling me to stop leaving toilet paper outside their door. Basically, they didn’t care for the cut of our jib,” says senior correspondent and focus editor Jimmy Newlin ‘05.

Haupt responds to such criticism with what amounts to a verbal shrug, “People who complain obviously don’t read the entire magazine. We print some crap, but usually it’s only because we’re working on a deadline.” The creative process behind the staff’s bi-weekly product has often seemed extremely obscure to many students—the magazine has had such off-color and ambiguously themed issues as “Brown,” “Pirates,” and “Fake Things.” “We’ll publish anything,” says Haupt, “This one time a kid wrote a treatise on the nonexistence of the moon and we put it in there anyway.” Some students have gone so far as to call the publication inane, toothless, and thoughtlessly liberal, although its slant has shifted in recent semesters from an irreverent and sometimes hysterical political reading of campus events to a more playful one.

At the same time, the magazine provides one of only a few opportunities for students to showcase their writing, art, and design, sometimes with impressive results. Within recent memory, ‘Libertas’ was honored with a special award given to college publications by “Wallpaper” magazine. “We start with nothing but blank pages,” quips Haupt, “It’s a creative endeavor.”

Haupt, a senior philosophy major and a math minor, is nothing if not fair-minded and pragmatic when it comes to managing the magazine. “Outside of staff meetings, each section editor acts as a sort of senior editor all to themselves,” he says with a furrowed brow, “I just need to know that there are reasons for what they do—if they are taking a risk I want there to be a reason for that risk.” Haupt is pensive and consistently thoughtful when discussing the magazine. He pauses, sighs, and scratches his head before finishing, “I play devil’s advocate and make sure that a reasonable person would understand why we print what we print.”