_ THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS _

By RUSS SMITH

With her four goals, Hill '07 was the Cats’ offense against Stanford. Lacrosse wins two in a row, now 0-6 in conference play. 'Cats looking to Saturday's Spring Frolics game to pick up elusive conference win.

By KATHERINE SWAIN
Staff Writer

The lacrosse team traveled to Durham, North Carolina to play No. 20 Stanford University last Sunday after losing at Virginia Tech on Wednesday. In Wednesday’s loss, the ’Cats were unable to hold back Hokie Lindsay Welch, who had six goals for the day in Virginia Tech’s 18-6 victory in Blacksburg.

Stanford, traveling from California to play the Blue Devils two days earlier in a 9-5 loss, faced the ’Cats on Duke’s turf field. The Cardinal was not weary from the loss, however, and quickly capitalized by scoring a goal within the first 38 seconds of play. The Cardinal then went on a scoring run, tallying nine unanswered goals in the first half, including an Abbi Hill hat-trick in the first 16 minutes of the game. Ruthie Hill ’07 scored Davidson’s first goal of the half with less than a minute remaining in the period, and at halftime it was 9-1 in Stanford’s favor.

Davidson’s Hill began the second half quickly by scoring two back-to-back goals in under three minutes. The first goal was unassisted, while Lindsay Frank ’05 gave a crisp pass to Hill for her third goal of the day. Stanford fought back quickly by scoring five goals, including three in less than a minute. Sarah Carter ’07 then broke the Cardinal run, scoring her fifth goal of the season on a feed from classmate Alex Eagan ’07. Hill also scored again before the end of the second half between two Stanford goals, leading to the final 16-5 score. For the game, Hill had her second hat-trick performance of the season. Unfortunately, while only two Davidson players tallied goals, eleven different Cardinal players had scores for the day. Wildcat goalie Leslie Smith ’06 had thirteen saves against Stanford, including nine in the second half. With the loss, Davidson moves to 3-12 for the season. The next match-up is against William and Mary at home on Saturday, Apr. 24 at 12 p.m.

From Baseball, page 16

’05 led off the inning with a blast over the left-centerfield wall. An error kept the Cougars alive in the fifth and they capitalized on uncharacteristically wild Davidson pitching, as four Charleston batters were hit by pitches, helping them grab a 5-3 lead. Charleston added two more in the top of the ninth, and Davidson put the tying run at the plate in the bottom half but was unable to convert. Shoop proved an offensive juggernaut, going 3-for-4 with a home run, two runs, and two RBIs. Brian Akin ’04 (6-1) suffered his first loss of the season despite not allowing an earned run in 5.2 innings, as his ERA dropped from 2.14 to 1.95, good enough for third-best among SoCon pitchers who have thrown 25 innings or more.

The Saturday before Easter, Davidson outscored Appalachian State 15-5 in a doubleheader, taking the first game 8-4 and the second 7-1. Co-Captains Matt Dellinger ’04 and Akin put together two sterling performances, including a complete game from Akin, as Davidson cruised to victory in both games. In game one, Davidson held a 5-4 lead heading into the ninth, but with one out got back-to-back doubles from Navarro and Crissey, who both scored in the inning, to provide some insurance. Shoop then launched a two-run homer well over the right-field fence for the icing on the cake. Dellinger went 7.2 innings, allowing four runs on 10 hits and a walk while striking out three in his best start of the season. It was all Akin in game two, as the hard-throwing righty yielded just seven hits and struck out four en route to tossing the first complete game of his collegiate career. Davidson opened the series by dropping an 8-3 decision, as the ’Cats stranded 10 runners. Navarro launched his first homer of the season in the losing effort, and Shoop went 2-for-4 with an RBI and a run scored. Davidson travels to Duke tonight and will then head down to Charleston for a three-game series against The Citadel this weekend. The next home game for the ’Cats is next Tuesday at 6 p.m. against Gardner-Webb.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2004

Trio of talented recruits to join men’s basketball in fall

By WALKER SAIK
Senior Staff Writer

Stuff you associate with spring: Spring Frolics, baseball, finals, beautiful Friday afternoons on your porch, lottery night, Decision Davidson, and so much more. But there’s something you have overlooked. There’s been a gap in your schedule that just hasn’t been filled for quite some time now, and it used to be so very important. But what was it? Ah, yes, Davidson College Basketball. Seeing freshmen dress up as Scotts or fraternities painting up used to be the pinnacle of your week, so what could basketball be up to these days? Recruiting. Recruiting, recruiting, recruiting. It’s the activity that head coach Bob McKillop is entrenched in all year yet gets no comers.“I think that all three of them will have a chance to contribute immediately. With the veteran cast that we have returning, that certainly won’t be an easy task, but they’re a very special group of young men,” he said. But don’t get frustrated if you don’t see these guys first thing next year. McKillop is quick to point out that they’ve got a pretty darn good bunch of guys coming back. With all five starters returning, there will certainly be a good bit of learning time for the class of 2008 teammates. Getting the two big men in this class may have a bigger effect than most think, however, as Nick Booker is considering graduating before the season. “Nick is in his fourth year, and he has the ability to graduate [before the season]. Nick might opt to graduate rather than come back here next year. That’s a decision he’s wrestling with.”

“I think that all three of them will have a chance to contribute immediately. With the veteran cast that we have returning, that certainly won't be an easy task.” - Coach McKillop

Such a loss would be considerable for the 'Cats who often took advantage of having two physical men down in the post in Logan Kosmalski ’05 and Booker. Losing Booker would require Conor Grace ’05 and Ian Johnson ’06 to step up and would likely lead to more calls on the freshmen. Whatever the decision, the ’Cats have another class of recruits on the books. Don’t underestimate the troubles that the coaches have to go through, though, to get these guys. Davidson’s a tough school to compete in, and it’s a tough school to study in, and these coaches have to adjust to that. “We look under every rock, around every corner, and exhaust every network we have to find people to come here. We find very special people, and Davidson is a very special place,” said McKillop. “Finding those people who can fit in here socially and athletically and can succeed is very challenging.”

There’s this 6’2”, 180-pound “combo guard” who owned up high school ball. An Illinois native, Jason Richards averaged 20 points a game with four assists and two steals to go along with it. He totaled over 1,700 points and put his name on 12 school records. Add six inches, a little more meat, and a French accent to Richards and you’ve got Boris Meno, the 6’8” forward from Paris. Having competed in the States for two years now, Meno led his high school team in rebounds and has taken home several tournament MVP awards. Tag-teaming down low with Meno will be the Ohio-native Thomas Sander. Another 6’8” forward, Sander was nominated for McDonald’s All-American status, leading his league in rebounds for two straight years. McKillop is excited about this year’s new recruits.

From Tennis, page 16

Furman won the first set in five of the six matches. The Paladins continued to roll, winning at positions one, two, and four—the first three matches to finish—to gain the insurmountable 4-0 lead. The remaining Wildcats on court did not give up, though, fighting to make the final margin a little closer. Meghan Fillnow, at number three, and Kate Levitt ’07, at number five, played great tennis in coming back to win the second sets of their matches before ultimately losing in tiebreakers played in place of a full third set. Fittingly on Senior Day, Hatch was the last Davidson woman left on court, though different circumstances would have been preferable. The lone Wildcat to win the first set of her match, Hatch stumbled in the second set and followed the paths of Meghan Fillnow and Levitt in losing a third-set tiebreaker. “That was the toughest 7-0 loss we’ve ever had,” said Price. “If we had managed to force a third set in [any of those first three singles matches to finish], it would have been a whole different story. The momentum would have shifted dramatically our way.”

The loss to Furman leaves Davidson’s final conference record at 8-2, good enough for the third seed in the tournament, behind Furman and College of Charleston, the ’Cats’ only conference losses. If the seeding holds true to form, the Wildcats will play East Tennessee State, Charleston, and Furman in succession en route to the SoCon championship. If a positive can be taken from the Furman match, it is that the Wildcats have a very nice recent memory of rebounding against the Paladins. Last season, the ’Cats lost 7-0 to Furman in the regular season before turning around and ending the Paladins' 50-plus match conference winning streak in the SoCon tournament semifinals. A similar turnaround this year would give Davidson the SoCon championship trophy and trip to the NCAA’s.

If you speak Arabic, this is your chance to start a career as an Army Linguist. This experience will help prepare you for a future in business, government agencies, embassy work and more! You'll also get: English training (if needed) and receive quick advancement in rank. See your local Army Reserve Recruiter or visit arabic.goarmy.com. Call 1-866-635-8450. AN ARMY OF ONE.