**The Davidsonian**

@ "THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY" @

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2004

First Class
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC

Volume 95, Number 17

Board of Trustees discuss evolving role of Church

Executive Committee to examine trustee religion requirement

By AMEE PATEL
Managing Editor

The Board of Trustees held a retreat two weekends ago in Charlotte to explore “What it means to be a
church-related college in the Reformed Tradition.”

While no formal discussion took place regarding the trustee religion requirement, the executive committee of the Board was asked to
look into the issue in greater detail and report their findings to the full Board in future meetings.

John McCartney ’74, Chairman of the Board of Trustees, said the retreat provided an important background on Davidson’s Christian tradition.

“The principle objective was to establish a broad understanding of history and the relationship with the Church,” McCartney said.

Reverend Art Ross ’65, a pastor at White Memorial Presbyterian

see Trustees, page 4

The trustees held a retreat to discuss what it means to be a church-related institution. See story on the history
of Davidson’s religion requirements, page 5.

Five get promoted to full professor status

By LESLIE HEMPSON
Senior Staff Writer

Davidson’s Board of Trustees approved the promotion of five faculty members to full professor status at a time when the
College is also in the process of interviewing candidates for open positions in five departments.

The professors who received the promotions are Jonathan Berkey of the History department, Ann Marie Costa of the Theatre department,
Scott Denham of the German department, Vikram Kumar of the Economics department, and Ken Menkhaus of the Political Science department.

According to Clark Ross, Dean of Faculty and Vice President for Academic Affairs, only the Board of Trustees can approve
professor promotions.

Although there is no official point at which professors become eligible for promotion, Ross said that most faculty members are
not considered until roughly seven years after they gained tenure.

Candidates must submit letters of recommendation from former students and full professors in their department to Ross before they can
be considered for promotion.

Ross also solicits the opinion of experts in the candidates’ field before asking President Vagt to review the names. The
Board of Trustees makes the final decision but generally approves the administration’s

see Professors, page 3

College notified about illegal uploads

Copyrighted material taken from Universal Studios, Paramount Pictures

By SARAH-GRACE WESLEY
News Editor

Within the past week, the College has received two notifications from Universal Studios and Paramount Pictures regarding copyrighted material being
distributed onto the Internet from computers at Davidson.

The Director of ITS, John Casey, said that while downloading music and movies is a problem, the recent complaints specifically
address the uploading of movies on campus.

The administration has located the offender, whose Internet access will be discontinued until the files are removed, but Casey is
still concerned that “we’ll see many more complaints now because Davidson College is in the spotlight and has been noticed.”

In a letter to the student body, Vice President for Student Life and Dean of Students Tom Shandley commented on
the fact that illegal uploading directly violates the United States Digital Millennium Copyright Act. He noted that the administration will
be discussing a new policy for the College in response to this growing national issue.

Shandley also mentioned the decision to have a panel this semester, hopefully composed of “an entertainment attorney, an economist, a
musician, and a legal expert on copyright law,” that will discuss the legal and ethical issues surrounding Internet music and
movie downloads.

“One of the purposes of organizing this forum for the spring is to bring in a variety of opinions and
perspectives on this issue to inform both the campus and the community,” Shandley said.

He also addressed the fact that “we are certainly one of a number of schools” currently faced with this issue.

Penn State recently purchased the right to download music on campus. According to Shandley, he has contacted the university regarding
the expense and success of the system that is aimed at keeping students from downloading music illegally. Shandley did not
indicate any plans for Davidson to follow Penn’s lead.

Katharine Hubbard, Trappey win nail-biter SGA election races

By DAVID CROW
Editor-in-Chief

On Monday, Davidson students voted in what is being hailed as one of the closest SGA Category II elections in
years.

In what current SGA President Charles Washington described as “perhaps, the most exciting one since I’ve been at Davidson,” current
SGA Vice President Katharine Hubbard ’05 beat out Sophomore Class President Jack Hubbard ’06 for SGA President.

An even closer election decided the Vice Presidential race, with Francois Trappey ’06 emerging victorious over Andrew Yancey ’05.

Nathan Cox ’05 ran unopposed for

see SGA, page 4

Have you been following the primaries?

PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 11

‘Miracles’ can come true.

Grammy-nominated poet comes to Davidson

ARTS, PAGE 6
