6

Latest computer animated film fails to be ‘Incredible’ in plot

Frozone fails to make an impact on the story line.

By STEVE KALISKI
Senior Staff Writer

Regardless of the massive success of the computer animated movement, no one can deny that this thriving and irresistible genre follows a strict formula. Take one non-human cluster of objects or animals, whether it is toys, bugs, monsters, fish, or fairy tale creatures, and make it completely human. This simple equation opens up worlds of possibility for remarkable cleverness. Honestly, what do audiences love more than imagining that all real and mythological worlds operate as distinct human cultures?

This month, “The Incredibles” extends this formula to the land of superheroes. Telling the story of a family of exceptionally gifted crime fighters who must struggle to make do in the real world, this widely appealing flick has an almost indestructible premise on its hands. However, director Brad Bird veers far enough away from the computer animated recipe to consequently weaken “The Incredibles” into an unsure and middling piece of entertainment. Attempting to create a world that is more sincere than sarcastic, this over-earnest comedy provides the first indication that the honeymoon is ending for computer animation.

Technically competent, occasionally amusing, and nobly directed, “The Incredibles” is mysteriously missing the rich and hysterical satire that made the “Shrek” franchise and “Finding Nemo” so sublime. While those movies jammed every frame with hilarious reminders of humankind’s ridiculousness, Bird contents himself here to tell a disappointingly tired and straightforward narrative about what it means to be special.

“The Incredibles” begins in a time in which superheroes regularly bail out incompetent policemen in order to save the day from evil. However, in a deft jab at the American legal system, crime victims notice loopholes in superhero practice and thus raise lawsuits against their saviors for not saving the world as well as they could have. Public disillusionment and financial ruin drive the superheroes underground, and one man, Mr. Incredible (Craig T. Nelson), secures a humdrum job in insurance claims. He and his superwife, Elastigirl (Holly Hunter), assume the names of Bob and Helen Parr in an attempt to start anew. However, a forgotten enemy from Mr. Incredible’s past surfaces on a tropical island, and the happy couple must don their form-fitting supersuits once again. Also along for the ride are Dash and Violet, the Incredibles’ “special” children who have the respective powers of amazing speed and dematerialization. Bird also introduces Frozone (Samuel L. Jackson), Mr. Incredible’s best friend who has the ability of turning water into ice. Sadly, this lively character does not fit into the plot summary because he inexplicably disappears after twenty minutes, only to return when he is no longer important.

An opening night crowd filled with children confirmed “The Incredibles” biggest problem; in spite of its tremendous comedic potential, it actually isn’t that funny. Only a couple of respectable laughs emerged from the packed house, and for an animated film that runs unforgivably close to two hours, this is a death sentence. Bird wants so desperately to create an innocent and pure story that he almost completely whiffs on attaining satirical bite. Also, the uninspired voice cast desperately misses the frantic presence of anEddie Murphy or an Ellen DeGeneres to lighten things up a notch or two. Visually, “The Incredibles” lacks the rich and textured landscapes of its predecessors. Watching “Nemo” and “Shrek” felt much like reading a “Where’s Waldo” book; each frame contained so much imaginative and humorous detail that you could never pick up every joke on a single viewing. In “The Incredibles,” on the other hand, what you see is what you get. Bird gives us no Far, Far Away Lands or marine life communities to distract us whenever the plot lags. None of this is to say that “The Incredibles” is a bad movie. In fact, it is far from it. Still, the amazing crop of computer-animated films from the past decade has set such an unsurpassable standard that a simply “good” attempt does not feel like enough. Just as the Incredible family struggles to fit in the world of ordinary people, so does this incredible genre struggle to fit in the world of ordinary movies.

Davidson Dance Ensemble presents fall concert
By Michael Cavell
Staff Writer

This weekend, the Dance Ensemble will treat Davidson students to not just one, but two fall semester performances. The two shows, being held in Duke Family Performance Hall, will begin at 8:00 p.m. on both Friday and Saturday. Tickets are $3 and can be purchased in advance from the box office in the Alvarez Student Union.

Friday and Saturday’s recitals should be well worth the small ticket price. Each show will consist of 25 pieces in contrasting styles, including but not limited to jazz, lyrical, ballet, modern, Latin, tap, step, and hip hop. With the wide variety of styles featured in this semester’s performances, everyone should at least be able to find something they like. Said Dance Ensemble President, Catharine Foster ’05, “If you don’t like what you’re watching, wait two minutes because the pieces are so diverse everything will change in an instant.”

One exciting aspect of this semester’s performance will be the use of professional choreography in addition to pieces by student choreographers. Marissa Nesbit of North Carolina Dance Theater and Jann Soud, a ballet teacher for the Dance Ensemble, will both have their work featured this weekend. Davidsonians who participated in classes offered by the Dance Ensemble in ballet, modern, belly dancing, and tap will all have a piece in this fall’s concert. In addition, the Dance Team has a piece in the show and there will also be a piece done in collaboration with the theater department. Said Foster, “I think they’ll really add to the show.”

If this sounds like a lot, that’s because it is. All counted, there are 125 dancing in the show and another 15 or so working behind the scenes. That is pretty impressive participation for an organization run completely by students. If all goes as planned, the two Dance Ensemble shows are sure to provide good times to all who attend. With a stunning degree of student participation and dedication, the Dance Ensemble will not disappoint. The Dance Ensemble has approximately 140 members.