12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

For you sports fans

DROOKIE: PICKS OF THE WEEK
Wildcat game of the week
Men’s Basketball vs. Charlotte
December 8, 7:00 PM
Belk Arena

I usually like to spread my picks around to all the teams; however, this week the men’s basketball team is
the only one. Wait, what? Carolina is back in the playoff chase? This is not supposed to happen for a
team that started the season with a 1-7 record. Despite the injuries and the poor start, Carolina will face St.
Louis this week with a chance to catch the Rams in the race for the final NFC wild-card berth.

SPORTS
By Witson McCrory
Sports Editor

While disheartening, it was no surprise when Jason Giambi and Barry Bonds graced headlines last week for their connection to
BALCO and illegal performance-enhancing steroids. Rumors had circulated for years that steroids had an alarming presence in Major League Baseball,
especially after players like Jose Canseco and Ken Caminiti admitted to having used the illegal substances during their playing careers.
Canseco even estimated that over 85 percent of players used some type of illegal steroids. In the end, the news
of Bonds’ and Giambi’s grand jury admissions was really just a matter of time.

The fallout of the steroid investigation, however, is more far-reaching than Barry and Jason, or baseball in general. In a
footnote to the breaking news last week, Americans Marion Jones and Tim Montgomery, once two of track’s biggest stars, were
also implicated by Victor Conte, head of the same BALCO lab made infamous by Bonds, for taking steroids in preparation
for the 2000 Olympics in Sydney. In those same Olympic games, Jones became the first female to win five medals
in one Olympics, including three golds. Montgomery, on the other hand, went on to set the world record in the
100-meter dash in 2002. Rumors of drug use had also dogged Jones and Montgomery, but there was never any credible
link to the sport’s biggest stars; Jones and Montgomery had repeatedly passed all drug tests for steroids, and Jones even
succeeded in a lie-detector test claiming her innocence in any performance-enhancing matter.

Apparently, there’s a good reason those athletes were able to pass multiple drug tests showing their “innocence”; Conte had designed
steroids that were undetectable to the outdated tests administered to the runners. In fact, as Conte told ABC’s 20/20, “There
are thousands of letters that athletes have [informing them of successful tests], and I’m sure they chuckle every time they
get them.” This is surely hyperbole, but the statement deserves more than a cursory glance. The tests for performance-enhancers are
getting better; it is now possible to test for THG, the steroid derivative for the “clear” and the “cream” supplied
by BALCO. With the newest waves of allegations regarding drug use, sports will also undoubtedly try to bolster future drug-testing
programs. Baseball is already in talks to...

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Columnist

With first semester coming quickly to a close, many seniors have begun thinking about what they want to do following
graduation. Some want to be investment bankers or Ivy League graduate students, while others want to teach or write. Many
of my friends, it seems, simply want to be unemployed or in college for another year. As for me, I
want to go back to high school.

In high school I was cool; I played varsity sports; I had a girlfriend; I got la[edited due to a
blatant lie]. In college, I have a column in the student newspaper. From Boston to Charlotte and from Johnny Moxen
to Steve Urkel. Don’t cry for me, Davidson. Gene Forrester, narrator of “A Separate Peace,” once said, “Sixteen is the
key and crucial and natural age for a human being to be, and people of all other ages are ranged
in orderly manner ahead and behind you as a harmonious setting for the sixteen-year-olds of this world.”

And so, in an effort to reclaim my throne on top of the world, I ventured down to Charlotte on
Friday to watch USA Today’s second-ranked team in the nation, Independence High School, take on powerhouse Richmond Senior in the
North Carolina 1-A West Regionals. High school sports promised to be a welcome diversion from what’s been going on lately
at the collegiate and professional ranks: What happened to the good ole days when Tyson was eating ears and Sprewell
was choking his coach? But I digress...

We arrived 20 minutes before kickoff and were lucky to get tickets, as the game was nearly sold out. The
15,000-seat stadium is U-shaped with impressive brick walls, imposing...Renegotiating concrete stands and the open end protected by the impressive Charlotte
skyline. Bathrooms are basically nonexistent, and while waiting in line at the port-o-potties, my buddy was forced to stand in
the freezing cold while a larger woman—and complete stranger—held her hands in his armpits to warm them up. No joke.
Nearby, I was cut in line by a guy wearing a hat that read ‘I Only Date Crack Whores.’ I
swallowed my pride, as otherwise, I probably would have swallowed his fist. Entering the game, we discovered a world Gene
Forester, narrator of A Separate Peace, once said, “Sixteen is the key and crucial age for a human being to
be,” where the cheerleaders all had braces and alumni proudly wore letter jackets and state championship rings from days long
past. Indeed, we established our place on the Richmond side not far from a guy sporting his puke-green 1978 State
Champs jacket—50 percent nylon, 50 percent eyesore—and a ring the size of my big toe. We concluded that the woman
next to him was the 1978 Homecoming queen. Texans claim high school football lives and breathes in the Lone Star
State, but these are the same people who feel the need to make t-shirts telling the rest of America not
to mess with them (ooooh). Don’t be fooled: prep football thrives here in North Kakalaki. Richmond Senior is the lone
high school in Richmond County. Football games there are the collective bargaining agreement to implement more frequent testing and harsher
penalties. Other sports, like track and field and cycling, have already enacted harsh penalties such as multi-year bans on convicted
drug users. Hopefully, the new movement towards drug awareness and harsher penalties will help curb the problem of performance-enhancing drugs
in sports, but can it really contain the problem? Of the 1,400 steroids tests administered by Major League Baseball, five
percent to seven percent came back positive. In the Olympics this past summer, numerous athletes, including the famous Greek sprinting
duo Kostas Kederis and Ekaterini Thanou, were banned from competition for failed or missed drug tests. We are catching some
cheaters, but that doesn’t mean the drug tests are necessarily successful. The International Association of Athletics Federations, the organization that
oversees drug-testing at the Olympics, recently admitted its anti-drug measures have failed to stop users due to weak rules, policies,
and subpar enforcement of rules despite a slew of positive tests during the most recent Olympics. Charles Yesalis, an epidemiology
professor at Pennsylvania State University, claims that a “large percentage” of world-record holders likely doped their way to the record.
As he told Forbes in 2002, “A lot of experts, at least in private, feel that way.” The exploits of
Jones and Montgomery, at events, and on Friday at least 7,000 rabid fans made the 2.5-hour drive to support the
Raiders. Virtually the whole county, gone. We’re sorry, the hospital is closed for the evening. We all left to go
watch Alice's neighbor's best friend’s kid play third-string punter. Good luck sewing your finger back on with a shoelace. Further,
imitating Alex Grady from Best of the Best, RaDon Ingram, Independence’s third-leading receiver, dislocated his shoulder in the first half
only to have it popped back into place simply to hold extra point attempts. Who needs steroids when you’ve got
youthful ignorance combined with raging hormones? Coach, if I don’t see the field, Heather's never gonna return my text messages!
Come on, I need this. Independence (14-0) won easily, 47-18, earning its 76th straight victory, the longest current streak in
the country and the second longest in U.S. history. Last year, Independence barely edged Richmond in the same game, 20-18.
Since, the Patriots haven’t won by less than 27. We left after the Patriots took a 40-7 lead, and in
doing so left behind the youthful innocence of a high school game, with its letter jackets and untainted dreams. We
returned to our world of job applications, speeding tickets (word of advice: don’t go 23 over in a work zone),
annoying neighbors, and memories of our own glory days. Towards the end of the first half, when Richmond had recovered
an Independence fumble, a young Richmond fan started high-fiving his dad right in front of us. “That’s how we play!”
he screamed. The joy and excitement in the boy’s eyes were pure and real. One could plainly see he wanted
nothing more than to be a Richmond Senior Raider, performing in front of 13,000 adoring fans, immune to everything else
in the world except maybe an Independence linebacker. And on Friday night, I felt the same way.
