THE DAVIDSONIAN

Campus Police Blotter

9/6 Satellite Parking Lot Vehicle Damage
A student reported that sometime between September 1 at 8 a.m. and September 2 at 12 p.m., their vehicle, which was parked in the Upper Satellite Lot, was damaged. It appears that some unknown person(s) struck the right door of the victim’s Yukon truck with their fist or elbow, causing a shallow dent under the window. There are no witnesses or suspects at this time.

9/8 Alvarez College Union Vehicle Theft
A golf cart was reported missing from the Alvarez College Union last week. The cart was parked there on September 7 and was secured with a chain running through the steering wheel. Neither the victim nor the Campus Police have been able to locate the golf cart as of yet.

9/10 Glasgow House Property Damage
At about 1:40 a.m., an officer found a lawn chair broken into pieces and strewn across the lawn on the North side of Glasgow House. The chair was part of a group of newly-bought lawn furniture for community use located at the North East side of the house. It also appears that the lens on a light pole located in the same area was damaged.

9/12 Martin Court Vehicle Theft
A student reports that their red bike with thin wheels and raised handlebars is missing from Martin Court.

News

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2004

Eminent Jewish poets hold first joint reading in 20 years
By Liz Barry
Staff Writer

Prominent Jewish poets Wayne Koestenbaum and Jacqueline Osherow performed their first joint poetry reading in over two decades in the 900 Room last Thursday. The poetry reading was the culmination of an extensive two-day visit in which Koestenbaum and Osherow visited several English classes and led a joint session entitled “A Literary Friendship.” Koestenbaum and Osherow have traded poems for editing and critique for over 20 years. While their poem swapping has enabled them to stay close over the years, they rarely have the opportunity to perform a reading together. The poets discussed the intricacies and development of their long-standing friendship and years of trading poems at a session at the Carolina Inn last Thursday.

Alan Michael Parker, Associate Professor of English and Director of Creative Writing, organized last week’s events. Parker intended to bring Koestenbaum to speak to English 495, the senior capstone course in English. The class is focusing upon material culture, a main concern of Koestenbaum’s work. When Parker discovered that Osherow would also be in town, he took the opportunity to arrange a coinciding visit. “Koestenbaum and Osherow are the dearest, oldest friends and I thought it would be interesting to bring them together,” he said.

Parker focused on the concept of surprise in his introduction speech, relating Koestenbaum and Osherow’s poetry to this theme. “The speech in Koestenbaum’s poems navigates between dreams, waking and artifice,” he said. “Reading Koestenbaum’s poems is a bit like reading a poem reading itself being written.” Before reading his poetry, Koestenbaum briefly addressed the room of students, faculty, and community members. “My poems are full of allusions and references that you might not have heard of, but that’s not going to matter. The purpose of tonight is to just let it wash over you.”It’s just sound,” Koestenbaum said. In describing Osherow’s poetry, Parker said that reading her poems reminds him that “blank verse of the highest order is still possible.” The Jewish Student Union sponsored a brown-bag lunch discussion in which Osherow addressed the strong connection between the Jewish tradition and her poetry. Following a long-standing Jewish tradition, Osherow translates Hebrew psalms to English and rewrites them according to her personal interpretations. Osherow attended Harvard University as an undergraduate student and received her Ph.D. from Princeton University. She currently directs the creative writing program at the University of Utah. Osherow won the Bynner Prize by the American Academy of Arts and Letters. She has also received many awards from the Poetry Society of America. Her poems have appeared in many prominent literary journals including The New Yorker, the Times Literary Supplement, and the Paris Review. Koestenbaum is a professor at the City University of New York’s graduate program. He specializes in topics ranging from poetry and contemporary literature to cultural studies. He received his M.A. in Creative Writing from The Johns Hopkins University and his Ph.D. from Princeton University. His two most recent works, “Model Homes” and “Moira Orfei in Aigues-Mortes,” were published this fall. Both authors’ works are for sale in the Union Bookstore.

Photo by Dorsett Clan

Wayne Koestenbaum and Jacqueline Osherow perform their first poetry reading together in over two decades.

Bats, from page 1

“Bats with rabies seldom fly well. Nearly all rabies cases are due to people picking up sick bats and getting bitten.” The recent events are not the first bat-related incidents for Watts Hall. Arriving at Davidson last year, Bradley Smith ’07 saw a bat hanging from his bed. His father struck the bat with a board, killing it. Later last year, Kristy Hayden ’07 was terrorized by a bat while doing laundry. Although unhurt, Hayden now calls Watts “the bat cave.” Director of Residence Life and Associate Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano issued a statement to Watts residents that promises action but supports the bats. “As long as they remain outside the building, bats are welcome neighbors because they consume mosquitoes and other flying insects,” said Marsicano in an email. “A brown bat can consume up to 1,200 flying insects in an hour.” Residence Life has already begun a containment effort. “We’ve boarded up any holes and brought in a pest control team,” said Area Coordinator Quinton McKissick. “We’re thinking it’s under control.” Still, reaction to the bats has been mixed among fourth Watts residents. “I want a bat to come up here,” said VanderGriend. “I think it’d be fun.” Her roommate, Julia DeLozier ’07, disagreed. “If she starts luring bats up here I’m going to have to get a new roommate,” DeLozier said. Finley, their neighbor, also prefers the bats to stay outside. “They can flap outside all they like; it’s a free country,” said Finley. “I just don’t like them coming in the rooms.” Fortunately for concerned Watts residents, Dr. Stanback predicts any bat problems will soon subside. “Bats usually leave to hibernate by late October,” said Stanback. “If there’s a problem now, there probably won’t be in a month or two.”