Staff Editorial
Extend rights to all

“... with all the rights and privileges appertaining thereunto.”
As nearly 400 seniors cross the graduation stage in May, making the transition from students to alumni, this phrase will most likely not be given a second thought.

As expansive and inspirational as the phrase may seem, however, it makes no reference to the limitations alumni face with the current trustee religion requirements.

As The Davidsonian reports this week, the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees decided to explore the relevance of the religion requirement by appointing a committee to explore the issue and make a recommendation to the entire Board as early as the annual October meeting.

While the progress may seem painstakingly gradual—one committee has appointed yet another committee to look into the issue—the crucial step may have been taken to create a school that truly embraces individuals of all religions equally.

While this requirement may be emblematic of the College’s Presbyterian roots, today it seems simply archaic. Davidson is a more diverse school racially, religiously, and geographically than it was when this requirement was first created, and the school is becoming more diverse with each year. Is it right to deny a growing number of students every year the honor of sitting on the College’s Board of Trustees?

This decision by the Trustees is certainly not the first time they have examined this requirement. In fact, as The Davidsonian reported in its Feb. 18 issue, serious discussions by the Board about Davidson’s religion requirements date back to the 1960s. More recently, in 1993 an SGA proposal to allow non-Christian alumni to serve on the Board led nowhere.

Just over a decade later we have returned to this same issue.

As much as some may feel that opening the doors of the College’s governing body to those who do not share the same ideas of God, faith, and religion as Davidson’s founders will in some way erode our Christian heritage, doing so will actually strengthen our traditions. As the College’s Statement of Purpose makes clear, “The loyalty of the college... extends beyond the Christian community to the whole human community and necessarily includes the openness to and respect for the world’s various religious traditions.”

How can we respect other religious traditions when non-Christians are granted fewer rights and privileges than the rest of the College’s alumni?

In the coming months, seniors’ rights as alumni may not be their greatest concern. Yet these same months could prove to be a historic time in Davidson’s history as the newly formed committee decides what Davidson students walk off the stage of graduation carrying.

Will that diploma be matched with “all the rights and privileges” we are guaranteed, or is it just an empty promise?

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
David Crow

Managing Editors
Brandon Catcott & Amee Patel

News Editors
Ruchi Turakhia & Sarah-Grace Wesley

Perspectives Editor
Zach Williams

Arts & Living Editors
Cannon Hodge & Sarah Robinson

Sports Editors
Will Bryan & Mike Gibbons

Cartoonist
Patton Stowe

So, YOU'RE STILL DATING “THE CHARMING”

He GIVES GREAT ADVICE.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
March 24, 2004

AND CHECK OUT THE NEW EARRINGS!

I LIKE USING LICENSE PLATES AS FESTIVE PLACEMATS!

Help stop obscene graffiti on campus

I hope The Davidsonian and the Davidson College community will help the Residence Life Office solve a continuing problem.

Since February 1, 2004, RLO has cleaned or repainted 12 separate graffiti renderings of male genitalia from residence hall walls, stairwells, and doors.

Although most of these “artworks” have been located in Belk, similar graffiti has appeared in Richardson and Duke.

In each instance, no one has come forward to claim responsibility and RLO’s efforts to identify the perpetrators have been unsuccessful.

Therefore, in accordance with College policy, the cleaning and repair charges will be divided among the residents of the residence hall.

So far, these charges exceed $400.00. Most distressing, the most recent graffiti singles out gays in a manner that is certainly harassment and perhaps, a threat.

Clearly, these actions are not acceptable at Davidson College where honor is valued and the community seeks to recognize “the dignity and worth of every person” (Davidson College Statement of Purpose).

Failure to take responsibility for one’s damage and allowing hall residents to pay for it is tantamount to theft.

Gay students should not have to face harassment in their residence hall homes. All resident students and housekeepers have a right to respectful and considerate treatment in the residence halls.

I hope the perpetrator will reconsider his or her actions, recognize that the community is not amused, and accept responsibility for the damage.

I hope Davidson College community members who have information about the incidents will remember their responsibility to their neighbors who are inconvenienced or harassed by this graffiti and share information or the perpetrator’s name with RLO or Campus Police.

The RLO staff strives to provide housing for our students but it takes all of us, working together, to make a community.

Leslie M. Marsicano
Associate Dean of Students;
Director, Residence Life

Police car design unacceptable

Bad job on the new police car design. Not only was the student design relegated to near-obscurity, but the screaming script seems to have come from one of those shops that specializes in pre-fab emergency vehicle designs. This recent, corny brand of artistic unoriginality fits right in with the “impact” mentality of area law enforcement. Chief Walker’s method of law enforcement, fortunately, more nearly approximates the simple, original, but authoritative, old design. [Maybe we should try again.]

Roland F. Foss ‘05

WHO WAS THAT MASKED MAN WHO WRITES PERTINENT QUESTIONS BUT IS MIGHTY QUICK WITH A CAMPAIGN SPEECH?

THAT'S THE LONE PRESIDENT!

HEALTH

