Rs Staff Editorial

Race relations without relations

Davidson takes great pride in the ability of its graduates to communicate effectively. So why is it on the issue
of race it seems like we’re talking past each other?

On Monday, Davidson students and members of the community commemorated the memory of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., through
small group discussions, panel debates, and speakers. The day’s events challenged students to think about and propose solutions for improving
race relations on campus. Yet when some voiced an unpopular opinion, understanding and openness seemed to crumble before our eyes.

In Monday night’s panel discussion, the speaker opposing affirmative action became subject to intense and disruptive criticism. Regardless of his
ability - or inability, as it turned out - to articulate a single point supporting his position in the debate,
the disrespect shown to Mr. Moxley may have deterred future dialogues on race relations.

Discussions on race almost always make for prickly conversations. Within the Davidson bubble, students tend to find even more security
by seeking out groups with which they can easily identify — bubbles within the everlasting Bubble, if you will. Discussions
on race disrupt this perfectly tranquil world by requiring all students to essentially pop their own bubbles, step beyond their
comfort zones, and speak candidly to their peers about a topic not usually brought up over sodas and turkey grinders
at the Union Cafe.

Yet only after individuals on both sides of the issue feel comfortable taking risks can they step outside their protective
bubbles and begin a true dialogue. When that dialogue evolves into consensus between the preacher and his or her choir,
like so often happens during conversations on race, little is accomplished other than scaring away the very people who should
make their voices heard. After witnessing the atmosphere of Monday’s discussion, many students may now run back to their comfort
zones and deadlock the door. Why put themselves on the line, they ask. How can scaring away the other side
possibly lead to positive results?

For a successful dialogue to take place, both parties need to feel comfortable expressing their views. A one-sided debate does
little to alleviate the obvious problems of race at Davidson. Until we are all willing to listen to one another,
regardless of how much we may agree or disagree, we will never see past our differences. After all, what is
a discussion on race relations if there are no relations?

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
David Crow

Managing Editors
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel

News Editors
Darcie Draudt & Sarah-Grace Wesley

Perspectives Editor
Zach Williams

Arts & Living Editors
Camron Hodge & Chris Schmader

Sports Editors
Peter Allison & Mike Giglio

IA DOSA FILOSA, BY LAURA FILOSA

Patent Sweater

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY JANUARY 21, 2004

Ali Fitzgerald

THIS YEAR WILL BE DIFFERENT- NO MORE “CREEPY” CLANCY OR DIRK THE “DRIP!”

YOU WERE SAYING NOSTRADAMUS?

THAT’S THE SWEET AROMA OF A NEW SCHOOL YEAR.

WE’RE GOING TO MEET NEW PEOPLE, MAYBE EVEN DATE A CHEERLEADER.

YESSIR, SOCIAL SUCCESS IS IN THE AIR.

How the Bike Cop saved Christmas

Among friends and family, forgetfulness has become my trademark. My most recent fiasco, however, did not run so smoothly. This
incident occurred at the home of my aunt and uncle, in Dallas, the night before I was scheduled to leave
for Indonesia. My family has resided in Indonesia for a year and a half now. I couldn’t wait to see
them.

Now, bear in mind, at this point I was pretty cocky. I mean, let’s be honest here. I was a
Davidson college student; I had just finished exams and thought, as we like to say at Davidson, “I had everything
together.” But you know what; God always had a way of humbling those He loves.

My amazing friend Katherine Sorrell had flown in from Houston that night, ready to make the trip with me. Around
10:30 that night, Katherine casually said, “Oh, I think I'll photocopy my passport.” “That’s a great idea,” I thought, “I'll
do the same.” Before I even moved towards the door I suddenly became very nauseous. I had forgotten my passport.
Only the single most important thing I needed to take with me.me. As usual, traveling with Ashley is never without
some sort of a crisis. I decided to call the Davidson College Police and ask someone on night duty to
go into my dorm room and hunt down my passport. After explaining my bizarre story, a kind policeman offered to
search my room and found my passport. “Thank you, thank you!” I cried. Then, in an explosion of disbelief, I
cried, “Oh my gosh sir, you don’t understand, I love you, I love you, I love you! I will find
some way to pay you back.”

“Just tell everyone that Bike Cop helped you out,” he quietly replied. Over the phone, he volunteered to personally deliver
my passport to the airport after his shift ended at 6:00 am. Sherry, my aunt, and I awoke at 6:00
the next morning to the phone ringing. I had overslept. “Of course,” I thought, “why should anything else go smoothly
now?” I heard Bike Cop on the line, explaining that the passport was on its way to Dallas.

“Well, how did it go?” Sherry asked. She received nothing more than a simple, “Oh, just fine.” Sherry inquired, “Did
you have any trouble?” He reluctantly replied that American Airlines had asked him to stand in two wrong lines before
he could finally put the passport on a counter. “Is that all?” Sherry persisted, “Did you have to pay a
fee?” “Oh, just a small one,” Bike Cop shyly answered.

At this point, I could see Sherry losing a bit of patience. Why wouldn’t this man tell her the details?
Finally, Sherry pried the truth out of the silent hero. As it turns out, this man also personally paid a
shipping tax of $70 to ensure the passport arrived in Dallas. When I heard the news, I grabbed the phone
and assured him we would be repaying him for this sum of money. No matter how much I insisted, he
quietly replied, “We’re not going to have any of that, it’s Christmas. Have a good trip.”

When I hung up the phone, Sherry and I shared a few moments of silence. Bike Cop never had any
intention of acknowledging his sacrifices. If Sherry’s inquisitive nature had not taken over, the truth about long lines or money
from his wallet would never have surfaced. “What kind of a person would be willing to do that?” I asked.
Sherry just shrugged her shoulders. So, Katherine and I boarded a plane, and I spent a wonderful Christmas break with
my family. All of this happened due to the sacrifice and humility of one person. By the way, he may
be known as Bike Cop, but his name is Sergeant Williams.

Ashley Willis '06

---

Teach For America coming to Davidson

During the week of January 26 through January 30, Teach For America will be hosting a “Blitz Week” on campus
with four Davidson and Teach For America alums to help publicize the final application deadline on February 15. The four
alums returning to campus are Kendra Berner ’02, Adam Brown ’02, Aaliyah El Amin ’00, and Alyssa Sinclair ’03, and
they will be busy all week presenting to classes and student organizations, hosting lunches, and meeting with students interested in
Teach For America.

Also, Aaliyah El Amin will be speaking about Teach For America and her personal experience at an Information Session on
Tuesday, Jan. 27 at 7:00 pm in the Sprinkle Room. All of our alums are looking forward to their return
to Davidson and are excited about sharing their Teach For America experiences with all of you. Please join them at
the Information Session or one of the many other events that will be publicized around campus this week.

If you would like to meet individually with one of the alums or have any questions about Teach For America
or “Blitz Week,” please contact us (Elizabeth Devlin at edevlin@davidson.edu, X6614 or Mary Carpenter at macarpenter@davidson.edu, X6577), your Teach For
America recruiters on campus. And make sure to check out the Teach For America website at www.teachforamerica.org where you will
find general information about the movement, corps member stories, and the Teach For America application.

Elizabeth Devlin ‘04

---

This new classroom is so technically advanced, I can’t figure out how to get the fonts back on. Any ideas?
Does this mean we’re canceling class?
