THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2004

From McCrory, page 12

Rivals in Jacksonville, Austin Peay, and Morehead State. While our opponents were not rivals in the traditional sense of Tennessee/Florida or Oklahoma/Texas, they were rivals nonetheless, and match-ups that people cared to see on fall afternoons.

Games now harder to come by

But after the successful run from 1998-2000, the local Division III teams such as Hampden-Sydney and Sewanee that made up a large part of our schedule began to reject future match-ups with the Wildcats according to Murphy. With those local teams no longer in the picture, Murphy says it is now much more difficult to create a full schedule of games each year.

“To put together the schedule, we are forced to put together scholarship teams from Division II and D-IAA. Division III teams won’t play us anymore because they feel our Division I status places us ahead of them. That’s really not the case,” says Murphy. “It doesn’t hurt to play a [scholarship] team like VMI, but we can’t play those teams exclusively... In my mind, the ideal schedule would include our non-scholarship conference opponents and some other geographic rivals like Washington and Lee, Randolph-Macon, and Centre, but right now they won’t play us,” continues Murphy.

With the local D-III teams refusing to play the Wildcats, Davidson is now in the no-man’s land of college football; stuck between well-endowed scholarship programs and D-III programs that feel games against a D-I school are an uneven match-up. Every year, Davidson is guaranteed games against PFL South opponents Austin Peay, Morehead State, and Jacksonville, and is able to schedule other contests against PFL North members as well as Patriot League teams like Georgetown. Still, there are not enough D-IAA non-scholarship teams in the southeast region to comprise a full schedule.

Weekly schedule now lacks intrigue

Unfortunately, Davidson cannot play meaningful games every Saturday when it has to travel to places like San Diego and Dayton, Ohio, or when it has to host schools with anonymous names and faces. Even worse, Davidson is now forced to play a handful of scholarship teams each year that have a huge competitive advantage against our non-scholarship program. Furthermore, only three regular season games per year against the aforementioned PFL South opponents have any bearing on the Wildcats’ postseason hopes. This season, Davidson was essentially eliminated from title consideration after losing to Jacksonville in the final minutes of play earlier in the year.

With only a handful of important conference games each year, there is a very small margin for error in league play, and we rarely have a team that can compete for a championship. Therefore, without a title contender, or even the possibility of a bowl game, the only way to sustain interest is to have intriguing match-ups throughout the season whether or not the team is in contention for postseason play. Without geographic rivals to continue interest in the program, it is difficult to maintain support amongst the student body and local community for a team that continues to struggle on the field.

Murphy says, “Students’ attention wanes as wins fall off in any sports, and we have to accept that... It’s up to us to create a fun environment, and we think students will follow.” Still, students show up in the stands every year to see SoCon rivals Furman, Wofford, and College of Charleston in other sports, no matter what the sport or record. There is a certain intimacy with those teams since we see them year after year, and the rivalries inspire both players and fans alike. It’s hard to get similarly excited about the “big” rival game against Coastal Carolina or Jacksonville.

Sticking by non-scholarship status

Davidson has made a commitment to sticking with D-IAA football,As Murphy says, “Football is in many ways the link to this school’s past and present... I truly believe it serves the goal and objectives of this school.” I too would never want to see Davidson discard its football program, as every college needs to have a few afternoons every fall dedicated to gridiron. It also makes sense to stay in the D-IAA non-scholarship classification, as a move to the scholarship division would drain resources from the rest of the athletic department and place an undue emphasis on football and the recruitment of athletes instead of student-athletes. The players that come here can hack it both on and off the field, and at a school as small and academically strong as Davidson, that quality is a must.

Change is necessary. But in making the commitment to our non-scholarship classification, we must again find a way to incorporate local, competitive, and meaningful games back into our schedule instead of continuing to cross the country in search of teams to play. Instead of boarding a flight to San Diego, we should be boarding buses to colleges in North Carolina, Virginia, and Tennessee to play teams that are both our rivals and our equals on the field. With local rivals coming to Richardson Stadium year after year, we might again generate excitement and fill the stands with students and those from the surrounding community whether our team is PFL champ or an also-ran.

The problems between the hashes, unfortunately, are another matter entirely.

From Connolly, page 12

Boston practically handed the game to St. Louis on a silver platter, but the Cardinals reacted like we were offering anthrax. The Jamaican bobsled team would have beaten Boston on Saturday, but we woke up Sunday with a mysterious one-game advantage. As for game two of the Series, I need to get my hands on whatever painkillers Curt Schilling is taking. The man’s ankle tendons have been held in place by staples, yet he’s been throwing lights out. Doctors called the surgical procedure used on Schilling an “experiment.” Sounds more like a fifth-grade arts-and-crafts project. “Now class, be sure to staple it down securely. If need be, we also have paste.”

Once again, Boston tried to give the game away, committing four more errors, but the Cardinals missed bases, ran into double plays, and left more crap on the field than Fenway’s famed pigeons. Last night the series moved to St. Louis where the Cardinals were previously undefeated this postseason. We let Pedro out of the loony bin for the start and an entire Nation prayed he wouldn’t go loco. Tell you what, if I was a Cardinal I’d have been more scared of Pedro at the plate than on the mound. Giving that nut a bat is like giving Pete Rose the number of your bookie: someone’s going to get hurt. Fortunately, for everyone, the bat hardly left his shoulders, as Pedro struck out twice and walked once while holding the Cardinals scoreless over seven innings. Of course, my dog would have run the bases better than St. Louis did last night.

Don’t get me wrong, I’m as cautious as the next guy, but the discrepancy in talent between these two teams reminds me of Jessica and Ashlee Simpson. With the 4-2 win, Boston becomes the 27th team in baseball postseason history to take a 3-0 advantage. Tonight Derek Lowe battles Jason Marquis at 8 pm in game four. My hands cannot physically type the sentence that belongs here. Enjoy the game.

All Students, Faculty, and Staff receive 20% off with CatCard!