14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2004

A fresh start: Bobcats set to begin season
By Wilson McCrory
Sports Editor

Charlotte coach Bernie Bickerstaff had the chance to bring in big-name players like Antoine Walker and Jerry Stackhouse for the expansion Bobcats this summer, but decided not to weigh down the Bobcats with huge contracts and declining talents. Instead, the Bobcats will try to build through their youth, as they used the expansion and amateur drafts to bring in players that are raw and athletic.

As a result, the roster is primarily a list of young, NBA no-names that have languished on various benches across the league and come to Charlotte in search of playing time and a chance to prove their talents on the court. There is some potential on the inaugural roster, including Emeka Okafor, Gerald Wallace, Primoz Brezec, and Melvin Ely, but the Bobcats will have a tough time transforming that talent into wins this season as they learn to play together and against fellow NBA competition.

The Bobcats have been sloppy with the ball on the offensive end, they do not have a proven scorer on the roster, and their shooting has been woeful at times during the preseason. Management insists that the Bobcats will rely heavily on their youth this year to develop what talent is on the roster, and that defense alone will win them games in their first season, but the Bobcats will have to find a way to knock down shots to contend in more than a handful of games this year. It is also more likely that they will depend heavily on veterans such as Steve Smith and Brevin Knight to carry the load during big spots.

Charlotte’s inexperience has been glaring at times during the preseason, and Bickerstaff has already shown a propensity to go to his veteran leadership down the stretch of close games. Still, no matter what combination the Bobcats have on the floor, it will be a tough season for the first-year team.

Okafor and the Bobcats will play host to Antawn Jamison and the Washington Wizards on Thursday in the Bobcats’ franchise-opener.

From Brookie, page 12

Predictable, but happy endings never crystallize for the Red Sox. The history of the franchise has never allowed any such tale of redemption. Yet there they were, the Sox redeemed, celebrating and drinking champagne in Yankee Stadium. It was beautiful; it was eerie.

The theme of redemption insinuated the individual side stories as well. For everyone out there who has ever gone 2-29 at the plate, keep the faith! There’s a chance to hit a grand slam in Game Seven, climbing out of the dark hole of slumpdom and into the spotlight of heroism, ala Johnny Damon. For anyone who has ever been booed in a home stadium, a few hits can win forgiveness from the fans!

Everyone in Boston thought that Mark Bellhorn should be demoted to the end of the bench (or Pawtucket) after he looked absolutely lost at the plate through the first five games. The Sox are lucky manager Terry Francona did not write his lineup according to popular opinion, because Bellhorn hit two crucial home runs in the last two games. The MRP (Most Redeemed Player) goes to Derek Lowe. He had fallen from the top of the rotation to the bottom of the bullpen after a miserable second half. Nobody expected him to play a part. When the playoff rotation was torn to shreds by extra innings, Lowe saved the Sox in Game Seven. He also pitched like an ace in the World Series clincher against the Cardinals.

Sox. from McCrory, page 12

Hornets no longer highlighted the sports section, and I instead had to watch hockey between big ACC match-ups on the hardwood. Best yet,A successful team can rally a town together, as we saw with the Panthers’ run to the Super Bowl last year. At the same time, however, a team can serve to divide the community, as the Hornets so effectively did during their final years here in Charlotte. To bring the Bobcats to Charlotte, the city council had to allocate over $200 million in public funds to build a new uptown arena, going against the wishes of a referendum on public financing held only a year earlier. The referendum was non-binding, and it technically dealt with an arena for the Hornets, but the voters had made their opinions about a new stadium clear. When the city council went behind their backs to secure the league’s 32nd franchise, a level of distrust and hostility towards the new team was established before they could even suit up for the first game. Two years after the approval of a new arena, there is still an undercurrent of resentment geared towards the new team and the leadership that brought it to Charlotte. Fortunately, there is positive interest in the Bobcats, as they have already sold more than 9,000 season tickets for the upcoming year. This total puts the Bobcats right in line with the average for other NBA teams for the 2004-05 season. In contrast, when the Hornets left after the 2002 season, their season-ticket numbers were down to 6,000 and attendance was just above 10,000 per game. 

On the other hand, while there are no season-ticket numbers for the Hornets before 1997, the team sold out the 24,000-seat Coliseum on a nightly basis when it opened in 1988. Even in the late ’90s, when the city was growing disenchanted with the falling franchise, there were still 15,000 season ticket holders. So while there is a moderate amount of support for the new expansion franchise, there is not the same grassroots, community-wide fascination with the Bobcats that existed for the Hornets 16 years ago. That rabid fan base was able to weather the years of losing that Charlotte endured, as the Hornets won only 20 and 19 games respectively in their first two seasons in the NBA. In 2004, however, the fans will not be as forgiving as the losses again mount for the expansion franchise. On sports radio, in the newspaper, and at the water cooler, people are still talking about the Panthers’ 1-6 start, who will win the Nextel Cup, and the upcoming college basketball season. The Bobcats are an afterthought. Fans will likely pack the Coliseum on Thursday night and for most of the 41 home games this season, and they will return next year when the new uptown arena opens up in the middle of the city. But when the losses begin to pile up, as they inevitably will, I am not sure people in the area will still show up in the stands out of loyalty. Instead, I worry attendance and fan support will nosedive, and the negativity that surrounds the return of NBA basketball will drown out any positives the Bobcats can show on the court. If that happens, we will be saying goodbye to the NBA for the last time in a few more years.

Nation can consider him forgiven, if not resigned as a free agent. Speaking of the Cardinals, the Sox really did play them in the World Series. I mention this because many fans were still paralyzed, like I was, after Game Seven against the Yanks. The sweep might have been fun, but the climax had already been reached. Expect Disney to be the first, and only, studio in line for movie rights. Pedro and David Ortiz did not go to Disneyworld after Game Four to celebrate; they went to negotiate.