Staff Editorial

An important vote

The 2004 election is being hailed as “the most important election of our lifetime.” But for the majority of Davidson students, the 2004 election is also the first presidential election in which we will be eligible to vote, making this not just an important election for the country, but also an important election for our generation. For the first time, many of us will truly have a say in which direction our country will go for at least the next four years.

While many voters in 2000 complained that both candidates were essentially the same, the differences between George W. Bush and John Kerry are more clearly defined. America is being presented with a choice between two candidates who not only oppose each other on certain issues, they are also often characterized as polar opposites when it comes to the actual process of decision-making.

George W. Bush is a feeler. He believes strongly in faith, has great certainty in his convictions, and tends to see the world and most issues in black and white. To his supporters, Bush is a strong and determined leader who means what he says and does not back down from any challenge. To his critics, Bush is overly simplistic and unwilling to address, or even admit to mistakes.

John Kerry is much more analytical and nuanced. As a thinker who believes in understanding every side to every issue, Kerry sees the world as a complex problem to be analyzed and deciphered. Kerry’s supporters see their candidate as exactly what the U.S. needs in order to lead us in this era of uncertainty when the world is no longer just dominated by two superpowers, but rather faces challenges from dispersed networks of terrorist groups. His critics believe Kerry’s wavering leadership style is exactly wrong for these uncertain times when America needs to have a strong and consistent voice in the world. Instead of Kerry’s careful analysis, they say, we need determination and resolve.

Think carefully about these two philosophies. Study the issues, positions, and records of the candidates. Our special election page this week can help you understand the candidates and where they stand on major issues. Decide what mark you want our generation to make on this election. Because this election is so close, every single vote really can make a difference. For many of us, this presidential election is our first opportunity to vote and fulfill our duties as members of this great democracy.

Attention readers,

Next week The Davidsonian will come out on Thursday, Nov. 4 rather than Wednesday, Nov. 3 in order to provide expanded coverage of the results from the 2004 election.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor in Chief
David Crow

Managing Editor
Zach Williams

News Editors
Zach Kazior, Adam Martin & Ruchi Turakhia

Perspectives Editor
Nicholas Carlson

Arts & Living Editors
Andy Martin & Sarah Robinson

Yow! Editor
Brendan Parets

Sports Editors
Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrory

Photography Editor
Dorsett Clark

Business Manager
Nick Horton

PERSPECTIVES

Letters to the Editors

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2004

Letter title was not mine

In response to last week’s letter, “Rushdie’s offense is our gain,” I was outraged to see that The Davidsonian took the privilege of slapping a title onto my letter, especially when that title went against one of my strongest beliefs: the concept of “my God.” What religious, or at least educated, person would say that? Did you buy God at Wal-Mart? Were there other gods on the shelves so that everybody would have their own God? I didn’t think I should have to ask The Davidsonian to clarify this, but since I was attacked on the issue, I request that The Davidsonian print a correction stating that I did not choose the title that was, perhaps again thoughtlessly, attached to my letter. Granted, I did give my letter a title, but The Davidsonian could have easily asked me to do so. I do not wish to respond directly to Mr. Fry’s letter because the Letter to the Editor section is not a forum for debate.

Richard Shayegan

Stem-cell research a serious issue

Last Saturday’s presidential debate at Phi and Eu Halls was cause for great excitement. Eloquent students braved the public speaking arena in order to address familiar yet important issues, although one, I fear, was not fully considered. Confusing myths continue to dull the bright promise of stem-cell research but I demand clarity. I am a disabled American who believes this issue has lost its focus within the midst of the abortion controversy. Stem-cell research supersedes all of the democrat, pro-life, pro-choice, conservative-liberal and appeals to humanity’s progress. Stem cell research has nothing to do with destroying life and everything to do with improving lives. Initial investigation shows that stem-cell research presents itself as a revolutionary...Option in confronting debilitating diseases. I use the word “option” because if one candidate is reelected, funding, support, and my personal hope for treatment will die. I understand that a candidate’s stance on using stem cells for research cannot be isolated from the other issues he stands for, but please consider this matter important enough to reevaluate tired party allegiances. I hope that Davidson College students, instead of allowing elementary reasoning to limit themselves, thrive on intricate and nuanced thought. For more information, please see The National Institute of Health’s website, at http://stemcells.nih.gov/index.asp.

Path nica trite binary oppositions: republican- HP Kee THe DENVER posy 200/ sions of less than 250 words to He We reserve the right to edit for content, brevity, and grammar.

Janelle: With all the obnoxious Bush and Kerry propaganda popping up around the Davidson campus (and everywhere else, for that matter), it is no wonder that many people turn to political apathy. While I certainly care who runs this country, I find myself withdrawing from politics more than ever due to the excess of hardcore party followers at this school. Political parties nowadays = cults. Democrats hate all things Republican, and vice versa. Whatever happened to a united country? Or at the very least, a country with more than two dominating political parties?

Let me provide an example, if I may: viewing a Bush and Kerry debate in the Union had to have been one of the most terrifying experiences of my life. People to my left wore t-shirts flaunting their political preferences like 9-year-olds proudly display Hilary Duff’s smiling mug on their clothing; yes, I’m sure wearing a presidential candidate’s face on your chest is absolutely the first step to changing the world. A girl sitting next to me, who I mistakenly judged to be normal at the start of the debate, quickly turned Mrs. Hyde as Bush proceeded to speak. She began by exhaling loudly. This can be considered a typical display of frustration, but she soon took a turn for the worse. Slamming her notebook against the chair, banging her feet on the floor, and giving explicit suggestions on where Bush could go are only a few examples of the unstable behavior she exhibited before I got the hell out of there.

I don’t want to give the wrong impression here—I’m not suggesting apathy by any means. Perhaps this can merely serve as a reminder that neither Kerry nor Bush is Satan; we can all benefit from stepping outside party lines once in a while. Or at the very least, limiting ourselves to one Bush or Kerry bumper sticker per vehicle.

Casie: I can’t say that I blame my partner-in-crime when it comes to her distaste for extreme politics. No one likes to be overwhelmed by the excessive rantings of a bitter old liberal; by that same token, no one enjoys listening to the relentless insults of a rabid conservative. Political fanaticism aside, however, I hold a great deal of respect for any American that is passionate, well-informed, and capable of adopting a logical set of values that will aid him or her in choosing the next president. In a country where biases prevail and the media is overly glamorized, it’s no wonder that Americans have a difficult time deciding on who is the most suitable leader. Is it really important that Kerry can’t catch a football, or that Bush has yet to pronounce the term “nuclear” correctly? It’s disturbing to me that Americans are enamored by something as trivial as Kerry’s botox injections, and actually take these useless criticisms into account when casting their votes.

Can we please pull ourselves away from the hoopla for like, two seconds, and actually learn about the issues at stake? I’m not talking about Bush’s chimpanzee ears anymore; I’m talking about real issues, such as foreign policy, health care, and civil rights. Get out there and vote — but take your task seriously. Voting for Bush simply because you’re rebelling against your Democratic parents is lame. However, voting for Kerry because you’ve been swayed by Edwards’ overwhelming sex appeal is also questionable.

I realize that not everyone is naive or easily influenced when it comes to the upcoming election; all I’m saying is that it’s okay to get the hard facts and inform others. It’s okay to get excited about the candidates and even (gasp!) take sides. Remember folks, there is no need to be discouraged by a few apathetic voters; choose your candidate! Proclaim his grandeur to anyone and everyone you meet! Heck, I’ll even give a thumbs-up to those adorable little political t-shirts. Just make sure that you are voting for the right reasons. And be willing to hear the opposition — ape-like features and Herman Munster eyes aside.