THE DAVIDSONIAN

Campus Police Blotter

3/28
Patterson Court Property Damage
Person reports that they discovered the rear door of the Phi Gamma Delta was damaged. Officer responded to the incident
and observed the rear door had been cracked just above the door handle. It appears that the damage may have
occurred from the interior.

3/29
Missing Property
Student came by the Public Safety office wishing to file a lost cell phone report. The cell phone is described
to be a Motorola E-120 and silver in color. Value of the phone is $160.

4/1
Chambers Building Property Damage
Student reports that their black 1992 Chevrolet Lumina was missing from Baker Sports parking area. The vehicle was last seen
on Thursday, February 12, parked close to the Motor Pool vehicles.

4/2
Satellite Parking Lot Property Damage
Student reports that his father’s 1994 Volvo station wagon was damaged. The vehicle was parked in Satellite parking lot and
was last known to be secure at 11:30 p.m. on Thursday, April 1. The student found the passenger side door
lock damaged. Estimated damage at $250.

NEWS

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 2004

Former Reagan advisor to speak at Davidson
Controversial author will offer his views in what some call a healthy change in College’s lecture scene

By Davin Crow
Editor

Dinesh D’Souza, a former advisor in the Reagan administration and currently the Robert and Karen Rishwain Fellow at the Hoover
Institution, will deliver a lecture entitled “The Superiority of American Civilization.” The talk will be in Chambers Gallery at 7:30
p.m. on Apr. 14.

Bringing a conservative like D’Souza to speak at Davidson will be a welcome change for some students, who feel that
the speakers who have been brought to the campus over the past several years have not adequately represented the range
of views expressed by many Davidson students.

Jack Hubbard ’06, who helped organize Mr. D’Souza’s talk, said, “I felt there was a lack of intellectual diversity among
the speakers being brought to Davidson. Dinesh D’Souza is going to bring that diversity, exposing students to his conservative beliefs
and principles.”

Joseph Adams ’06, President of the College Republicans, added, “Many at the College are still hesitant to allow the expression
of thoughts that are outside of the liberal bubble.”

With D’Souza’s talk next week, Adams does feel that this resistance to conservative speakers may be changing.

“Mr. D’Souza’s visit to Davidson suggests that this opposition to conservative speakers may be declining, as more and more people
on campus come to appreciate intellectual diversity alongside other forms of diversity,” Adams said.

However, other students feel that Mr. D’Souza may not be the best person to represent the views of conservative students
at Davidson.

McLean Quinn ’05, Co-President of the Young Democrats, said, “D’Souza is basically a sensationalist ... I think that the College
Republicans may be doing a disservice to their cause of rallying support for conservative speakers by bringing in someone as
radical and as out of touch with reality as D’Souza.”

D’Souza, who first made a name for himself as an undergraduate at Dartmouth College as the editor of the conservative
newspaper The Dartmouth Review, became the Managing Editor of Policy Review after college. From 1987 to 1988 he was a
senior domestic policy analyst in the Reagan White House and since then has been the author of several best-selling books,
among them “Illiberal Education,” “The End of Racism,” and “What’s So Great About America.”

Born in India, Mr. D’Souza has used his experience as an immigrant to develop strong criticisms of policies such as
affirmative action while supporting other controversial views like colonialism, making him among the more contentious conservatives to speak at Davidson
in recent years.

Despite the controversy, the lecture’s organizers still think it will be an enlightening event for students of all political persuasions.

“I do not expect all people to agree with his statements,” said Hubbard, “in fact I would even encourage those
who disagree to come and speak their mind in the question and answer period. I trust that Davidson students will
enjoy this departure from the recent speakers status quo and come check out the other side of the story.”

ITS, from page 1

ness is the result of one problem, a few related problems, or a few unrelated problems.

This factor has also made it more difficult for ITS to define the cause of the network delays, because difficulties
may be in the server, the network equipment, or even client machines.

Network slowness has not been confined to Davidson’s campus.

Recently Hollins University, in Roanoke, Virginia, notified Davidson that they have been experiencing similar difficulties with their network.

Hollins, like Davidson, uses a network that is made by the manufacturer Sysco, meaning that the two schools share similar
computer equipment.

By comparing and contrasting the two schools’ networks, ITS hopes to find the problem.

Although delays in the network are a source of great frustration amongst students and administrators, ITS asks that students be
patient and understanding. ITS is doing its best to solve the problem.

In the words of Marcia Makl, director of Networks and Systems, “We’ve got everyone working on it.”
