Davison COLLEGE

First Class U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC

THE DAVIDSONIAN
“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 2004 - VOLUME 95, NUMBER 24

Ticket sales lower than past shows
By BLEVINS SHELNUTT
Senior Staff Writer

For the College Union’s spring concert, Ben Folds will perform in Belk Arena this Friday at 8 p.m. David Beckeley
will open for the concert.

Approximately 675 Davidson students, faculty, and staff, along with 650 community members have purchased tickets to the show, making the
total quantity of tickets sold 1,375 out of 3,000. Union Director William Brown expects to sell another 400 to 800
by the end of the week. The Union sold approximately 3,300 tickets for John Mayer, over 4,000 tickets for Dave
Matthews, and 4,500 for Bill Cosby. Brown speculates that if it was not for the two fraternity formals on Friday
night, then student sales for Ben Folds would surpass those of John Mayer.

Brown says the Union is satisfied with ticket sales thus far. “We’re very pleased. We are very close to our
projections,” he said. “The sales this week will tell, but we are on target to stay in budget if we
sell another 200 tickets, and we will surely do that.”

The decision to get Ben Folds was a result of several factors, including scheduling availability, price, and student responses to
concert preference surveys given throughout the semester. In the final survey given to students, 700 said they would definitely see
Ben Folds perform.

SPRING FROLICS: Lauren McCulloch ’07 and Oscar Hernandez ’06 joust last Saturday. Photo by Ariel Bugosh

Cable confirmed for fall
By Bair McGraw
Senior Staff Writer

Cable television will be available in every residence hall room next semester, as RLO has finally decided on a suitable
provider. The situation was “a whole lot more complicated than we had anticipated,” but RLO believes they have found a
good solution, said Dean Leslie Marsicano, Director of Residence Life.

The cable service will be provided by Campus TeleVideo, a company that works with colleges and universities. Campus TeleVideo buys
satellite television from providers such as DIRECTV and then repackages the channels for colleges. There will be 55 channels available,
including two channels originating on campus. “One channel might be devoted to academics, the other might be devoted to student
life,” among other things, said Marsicano. Student programming is another possibility.

Because the college could not find a subscriber willing or able to provide cable on a subscription basis, the cable
will be provided to all rooms as part of the room rent. The cable is expected to cost each student
an extra $10 to $15 every month. Although service will be available in the residence hall rooms next semester, Martin
Court must wait until spring 2005 due to the difficulty of wiring the apartments. Cable will likely only be available
in the living rooms. Adelphia will continue to provide service to Martin Court until the changeover.

Students seemed to be either enthusiastic or indifferent about the decision. “I’m pretty excited about it since I didn’t have
it this year,” said Jay Chitty ’07. “It’s a pain only having two TVs for five floors [in Richardson].” Of
the rent rate increase Chitty said, “It’s not a problem. It’s a small price to pay.” Jeff Wright ’07 said,
“I think I have enough distractions already, and my parents probably won’t notice the [change in rent].”rent].” Jennifer Felder ’07
and Kathleen Levy ’07 said, “The option to watch TV in our rooms is nice to have, but we hope
it won’t distract us from our studies.” About the rent change, each agreed that “the students should have the option
to decide if they want to pay for cable.” After approving the cable decision earlier this semester, President Bobby Vagt
and the college decided on several criteria in choosing a provider, including subscriber-based service and the decision not to use
any Davidson College funds. No company met all the criteria the college started out with, however. “We really do appreciate
President Vagt’s flexibility,” said Marsicano, as some of the criteria had to be relaxed.

see Cable, page 3

By BRANDON CARROLL AND ADAM MARTIN
Managing Editor and Senior Staff Writer

Is grade inflation a threat? Registrar's records show little evidence of higher grades

“Hoping Harvard’s trend of graduating 90 percent of its students with honors will work its way to Davidson? Not bloody
likely. Grade inflation does not exist at Davidson. At all. But the administration keeps battling away against it, just in
case.”

Many students’ perceptions of the phenomena known as grade inflation may be colored by this definition entry of Davidson buzzwords
in the Wildcat Handbook, the guide distributed to every first-year student. A slightly more accepted account from the Texas Education
Review reads: “Grade inflation, by definition, involves a rise in grades without a concurrent rise in student performance... It can
occur over time, across academic departments or among academic institutions.”

Grade inflation has been back in the national news in a big way recently. Princeton University recently announced a proposal
to cap the number of A-range grades given in a department to 35 percent for undergraduate classes. The Wednesday, April
7 proposal is a response to findings that 65 percent of students in the Class of 2002 have GPAs above
B+. Princeton faculty adopted that proposal, with minor amendments, in a 156-84 vote on Monday.

Does Davidson, at one time known as the “Princeton of the South,” have a similar issue?

see Grades, page 4

Does Davidson’s GPA, rigor help or hinder grads?

In the last 20 years, while Davidson GPAs have not risen significantly, the available statistics show that GPAs at other
leading institutions have. This disparity raises concerns that some Davidson students will be disadvantaged in the job market or in
graduate schools. Faculty and administrators downplayed the importance of GPA in determining one’s post-collegiate prospects.

Mike Galdo ’04 said, “I believe that it is easier to have a 3.5 at Harvard than a 3.15 at
Davidson. Admissions counselors at many schools will drool over that Harvard student. I don’t know if the Davidson student will
get the same respect.”

According to John Adams, Director of Career Services, GPA can hurt most at the places that screen applicants first using
only GPA. He describes this practice in most cases as the “inappropriate use of GPA as objective criteria.” GPA measures
classroom performance rather than workplace performance, Adams said. “The research just hasn’t been done to show the relationship between them.”

Preliminary screening by employers can be problematic for Davidson students, but Adams believes that the college’s rigorous academic standards ultimately
benefit graduates in the long run.

see Grads, page 5

Hero Tillman: a true American

PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 13

DIDI to guide interest in int’l development

SEE PAGE 2

SPORTS, PAGE 16

We give our regards to Broadway

PAGE 1
