THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2004

Field Hockey gains valuable experience in road games
By Britt MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

As the field hockey team progresses towards the completion of their season-opening five-game stretch on the road, head coach Lisa
Thompson has been happy with the results. “Our goal is to improve each week. We have challenged ourselves with some
tough competition right from the beginning.”

The Wildcats have indeed faced some tough competition, as they have yet to play a team with a losing record.
The Wildcats opened their season with an unfortunate loss to the RedHawks of Miami of Ohio. Although the Wildcats managed
to create several scoring opportunities, they were unable to find the net, while the RedHawks capitalized on their few chances.
As the final seconds ticked away, the field hockey team found themselves on the losing end of a 2-0 score.

The Wildcats next faced the Wake Forest Demon Deacons, who are currently ranked #1 in the NCAA. The Wildcats made
it a competitive game, but ultimately fell to the stronger Demon Deacon squad by a 10-0 score. Despite the final
score, the Wildcats succeeded in several areas of the game. Goalie Sarah Nolan ’05 made 18 saves on 46 shots,
while the Wildcat defense shut down senior Kelly Dostal, who was the Atlantic Coast Conference Player of the Week. Dostal,
an All-American last year, entered the game with six goals on the season, but tallied only two goals against Davidson
as a result of the tenacious Wildcat defense.

After gaining invaluable experience at Winston-Salem, the Wildcats then traveled to Easton, Pennsylvania to challenge the Lafayette Leopards. This time,
though, the Wildcats returned triumphant, with a 2-1 win against the Leopards for their first victory of the season. The
win did not come without effort, though, as the Wildcats courageously fought the Leopards into overtime. Freshman forward Kayli Maxwell
’08, off an assist from Courtney Hughes ’05, scored the game-winning goal that gave the Wildcats the victory. Eleanor Cowley
’08, on an assist from Tiffany Homan ’05, scored the first goal for the Wildcats. Nolan made 14 saves to
secure the victory.

Unfortunately, the Wildcats were unable to carry over the success from the Lafayette victory into their next game, as they
were overpowered on the road by the Lehigh Mountain Hawks. Although the Wildcats had ample opportunities, they were unable to
convert shots into goals as the Mountain Hawks capitalized on three of their own chances. Despite the 3-0 loss to
Lehigh, Davidson confidently travels to Appalachian State (2-4) for their next game on Wednesday. The game is extremely important for
the Wildcats, as it is their first Northern Pacific Conference game. Davidson looks to continue their success from last year
when they won the East Division of the NorPac Conference for the regular season.

After the Appalachian State game, the Wildcats return to Davidson for a three-game homestead where they face Longwood, Catawba, and
NorPac foe Radford. The Wildcats are not forgetting the task at hand, though, as Thompson notes, “We are committed to
continue our growth and development each day.”

Men’s Basketball releases tough 2004-05 schedule
By AUSTIN MERCADANTE
Sports Editor

With the unveiling of the 2004-2005 schedule on Wednesday, Davidson’s men’s basketball showed that it is a team with lofty
goals and high expectations. The Wildcats’ schedule is laden with national contenders, especially early in the season.

“If you’re a middle-weight, and you are trying to knock out a heavy-weight, you’ve got to step in the ring,”
says head coach Bob McKillop. Hopefully, the early season games will prepare the team for a strong post-season run.

Davidson opens the 2004-05 season on the road, traveling to the brand-new Paige Sports Arena in Columbia, Missouri to do
battle with the national powerhouse Missouri Tigers on Nov. 19th. Davidson next returns home to host Duke in the Charlotte
Coliseum on Nov. 22nd in a game that will be televised live on ESPN2 at 7:00.

A big difference from last year’s schedule and this year’s, however, is the presence of several home games against top-notch
programs. “This year we’re looking forward to playing some big games at home, as opposed to last year when most
of our non-conference schedule was away games. We love Belk Arena and our fans and our home record shows that,”
says Ian Johnson ’06. The Wildcats were an undefeated 13-0 at Belk Arena last year, and the Davidson fans will
surely pack Belk to watch the Wildcats’ home games versus Georgetown, Charlotte, and Seton Hall. Unfortunately, the Seton Hall game
falls during the Winter break for Davidson students, which may limit the attendance somewhat against the Pirates.

Even though many big games occur on the non-conference schedule, no one is overlooking January and February, when many crucial
Southern Conference games will be contested. Davidson will play at home against perennial SoCon power College of Charleston Jan. 15th,
and will host East Tennessee State, last year’s SoCon Champs, Jan. 26th. Of course, the season leads...directly into the Southern
Conference Tournament, which will be held March 2nd-4th in Chattanooga, Tennessee. “This year, we’re older and more experienced, so we’re
looking forward to proving to ourselves and others that we can play with and hopefully beat the teams we have
lined up,” says Brendan Winters ’06.

From Soccer, page 16

Before the half, Baltz again served a free kick into the box, this time finding the feet of co-captain Joey
Bass ’05 on the back post for his first goal of the young season. Davidson came out in the second
half with just as much offensive power as in the first, as Nahum Navas ’06 scored in the 63rd minute
to extend the Wildcat lead to 4-1. Tom Lavan ’08 later became the first ’Cats freshman to score this season,
and the home side hung on for an impressive 5-2 victory. “It was a great confidence booster to beat Vandy,
scoring five goals against a good team,” said Spear following the match.

Davidson 1, UAB 0

In the first game of the Sunday doubleheader, UNCG again displayed its offensive strength in holding off the Commodores 5-4
in overtime. Following the overtime thriller, the tournament’s last match was no doubt the highlight of the weekend. In a
polar opposite of the previous game, Davidson squeaked past a star-studded UAB side 1-0 in overtime. Wildcat defender and Birmingham,
Alabama native Latting scored the game’s lone goal in overtime in the 98th minute of play. “This is a huge
win for us,” said Davidson head coach Matt Spear. “We really had to gut it out against a very strong
team.” Like on Friday, the Wildcat attack again dominated the opponent, holding a 20-7 shot advantage over the Blazers. The
’Cats had numerous chances in the second half, but were unable to find the back of the net. Two close
headers, one by Navas and another by Matt Allen ’06, both narrowly missed. “Some days the goals come and other
days they seem to dry up,” Spear commented. “Just like Friday, we had plenty of great opportunities to score but
just couldn’t finish those chances.” The talented UAB frontline almost won the game for the Blazers with just minutes to
play, but Creasman stopped both a breakaway and a well-placed header to send the game into the sudden death period.
Once again, it was a Baltz free kick that proved magic for the Wildcats, as his cross found the foot
of Bass, who got the ball to Latting for the golden goal. “It was great to see John, who was
also critical in the shutout, get the game-winner against his hometown school,” Spear concluded. Latting, Creasman, Bass, and Sartorio were
all awarded for their standout play this weekend with spots on the All-Tournament Team. The two victories improve Davidson’s record
to 3-1 on the season, and show that the Wildcats are perhaps one of the top teams not only in
the Southern Conference but in the NCAA as well. The Wildcats and Spartans both finished with 2-0 records in the
tournament, but Davidson won the tournament title based on goal differential. The Wildcats will be on the road in California
this weekend for a tournament against powerhouse Santa Clara and former national champion San Francisco.

Photo by Dorsey Clark

Preston Davis ’06 stays focused on the ball during the Wildcats’ 5-2 win over Vanderbilt. The ’Cats followed the win
by beating UAB 1-0.

From Brown, page 12

Glass table and suffered carpet burn on his knees and elbows. Don’t get me wrong, this was quite stupid, but
I have a soft spot in my heart for those who suffer from arachnophobia. Mostly I feel it’s a shame
that Hill will never be able to watch such a beautiful film as “Eight Legged Freaks,” one of my all-time
favorites. Kevin Brown rating: 8 (for legs)

2. In 2002, Baltimore outfielder Marty Cordova had to admit to manager Mike Hargrove that he couldn’t play because he
fell asleep in a tanning salon. I cannot even imagine walking through a major league clubhouse beet red, and telling
my manager that I can’t play because of severe sunburn. And I thought that the Saturday morning stroll up the
hill was the walk of shame. I also have sympathy here, since I’ve fallen asleep in the sun before. But
I don’t have any sympathy for a man in one of those cancer booths, especially for 5 hours. Kevin Brown
rating: 15 (for the SPF he should have used)

1. The highest Kevin Brown rating goes to Steve Sparks, who dislocated his shoulder in 1994 for the Brewers. Sparks
watched some motivational speakers in spring training rip phone books in half. Obviously motivated, he tried to rip a phone
book himself. Sparks found out what most people already know: it’s hard to tear apart a phone book. Why a
knuckleballer even tried, I have no idea. He dislocated his shoulder for the seventh time. Kevin Brown rating: 20 (for
MPH of his knuckleball after the surgery)

So there you have it: the five dumbest baseball injuries. Remember, next time you do poorly on a test, don’t
concuss yourself by bashing your head against the wall.
