THE DAVIDSONIAN

By James WELLS
Staff Columnist

If you are not a white male, you will not be able to understand this article. You may as well stop reading right now. Seriously, go read The Yow (it’s shockingly well done). If you’re not in a humorous mood, go read the volleyball scores or the movie reviews. Anything but stick around here. You just won’t get it. If you choose to read any farther, I cannot be responsible for your misinterpretation of this article.

I never realized that, since I am a white male, all my attempts at communication needed that disclaimer. I guess that’s predictable though. As a member of the oppressor class, I guess I never paid attention to the inability of minorities and women to communicate with me. Now I know, however, that white males cannot communicate with anyone who is not a member of our oppressor class. I’m not sure what the Committee on Campus and Religious Life wants me to do with this nugget they have imparted to me. The campus is still essentially segregated because, at heart, the administration doesn’t believe we can get along.

The Princeton Review doesn’t exactly have a list of colleges with the fewest women and minorities. I bet some of you are wondering when the Committee on Campus and Religious Life told everybody this. They are telling us that every time we turn on the cable TV in our dorm rooms. According to the article “College gets a new cable provider” in the September issue of The Davidsonian, the Committee gave us cable “due to complaints from minority and female students that majority [white] and male students were dominating show selection in the lounges and the Union.” You might want to read that again, because it’s quite a little mind-boggling justification.

At first, it seems innocuous enough. White guys were constantly watching ESPN, and since it’s on 24 hours a day, it was difficult for others to find time to watch The OC or The BASSment. Somehow I am able to transcend my oppressor class worldview and find some logic in that. However real the problem may be, how the Committee on Campus and Religious Life chose to try to solve the problem demonstrates a lack of thoughtfulness. The CCRL could have, for example, tried to publicize the problem. They could have sent out emails, worked through hall councilors, and put up flyers to remind people about the necessity for sharing the TVs. They could have formalized the informal reservation system that all the lounges have. If people could sign up for certain blocks of time, it would discourage people from turning on ESPN and sitting in the lounges for hours watching the same SportsCenter repeat. But they decided against that.

Instead of fostering a community that responds to the concerns of all members, the CCRL decided instead to sow the seeds of division on campus. Dean Shandley, in the same article, expressed concerns about the effect on the community of encouraging people to spend more time in their rooms. Putting cable in every dorm room is also a more expensive solution than trying to actually solve the problem, not only for the school, but also for the students who must pay for it whether they want it or not. Why then, did the CCRL not even try a cheaper solution with less of a downside? The apparent answer is that the CCRL doesn’t believe that white males can actually communicate with women and minorities. It seems interesting that the board has concerns about the adverse effect that encouraging students to be insular has on the community, but they don’t believe that the community really exists in the first place. Perhaps this is why the efforts to diversify campus continually fail, despite all the efforts of the administration; the campus is still essentially segregated because, at heart, the administration doesn’t believe we can get along.

Look at Homecoming, for example, why try to avoid conflicting with Jewish holidays if we are fundamentally unable to get along anyway. There is a way to prove the administration wrong, however. Wouldn’t it be a tremendous display of community if on Homecoming, we, the students of Davidson, did nothing? What if no one went to the Union, no one went to the football game, and no houses threw parties? It wouldn’t be hard, the only question is, could we all get along long enough to pull it off?

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2004

I like George Bush, and I would probably do better for America were he to be reelected, but I recognize that the man is not in politics with the sole intent of running the country into the gutter. Some people who have the audacity to agree with me in other areas beg to differ. These people are idiots. They aren’t helping their cause by being irrational. Last week, after a 900 Room screening of an anti-Iraq War documentary, the wrong kind of leftist shouted at the lone Republican present with absurdly vituperative attacks on George Bush and the Republican Party. A man whose administration lied to Congress about the cost of the Medicare bill, used deception and innuendo to make Iraq look like part of the war on terror, and has attacked basic civil liberties is easy to make the case against, but instead liberals have looked to Fox News for guidance and are resorting to yelling and intellectual dishonesty. I tried to stomach it when it first started, but then the protests got sillier, the bumper sticker slogans just became embarrassing, and Michael Moore gained in popularity. The Left is losing its mind, and with it will lose the election.

Erskine Bowles, unlike Rep. Burr, is more than a rubber stamp

By Joe REED
Staff Columnist

We here in North Carolina are seeing one of the closest and most important Senate races in the country play out between Republican Congressman Richard Burr of Winston-Salem and Democrat Erskine Bowles, a Charlotte investment banker with experience in the Clinton White House. While analysts accurately point to this race as key in determining which party gains control of the Senate, North Carolinians should see it mostly as a decision as to who will be the voice of our state for the next six years. When we use this standard, regardless of one’s party affiliation, it becomes clear that Erskine Bowles is the man for the job.

Erskine’s extensive experience in business and government makes him uniquely qualified to tackle North Carolina’s problems as our Senator. He knows firsthand how to create jobs, both from his work in the private sector and from his days as head of the Small Business Administration under President Clinton. As Clinton’s Chief of Staff, hereached out across the aisle to pass the first balanced budget in three decades. His understanding of the importance of issues like health care and stem-cell research is intensely personal, as he has had immediate family members with both Lou Gehrig’s Disease (from which both his father and sister died) and juvenile diabetes. To combat these and the many other problems facing the state and the nation, Erskine has released several detailed policy plans, which, though space prohibits detailed discussion of them here, can all be accessed online at http://www.bowles2004.com. Another quality of Erskine’s that makes him well-suited to serve in the Senate is his commitment to common-sense, pragmatic policies, regardless of partisan or ideological bias. This stands in stark contrast to Congressman Burr, a cookie-cutter Republican who is fond of bragging that he votes with the Bush administration 95 percent of the time. Erskine is quick to tell voters that, if elected, he will not do this—but just as quick to add that he will not vote with a Democratic administration 95% of the time either. That, all North Carolinians should realize, is what we need: not a rubber stamp for either party, but rather an independent leader who will stand up for the interests of our state. After several somewhat slow months for his campaign, Congressman Burr is beginning to pick up the pace with a huge ($6.7 million over 7 weeks) negative ad buy. Referring to these ads, Burr was quoted in The Hill as saying that his supporters who are “raring for ‘skin to rip and blood to flow’ (yes, he actually said that) are about to get their wish.” If that’s what you want—if you want as your voice in the Senate a professional politician who knows how to make “skin rip” and “blood flow”—then by all means vote for Richard Burr. If, on the other hand, you’d rather be represented by a committed, experienced public servant with practical, common-sense ideas to help the people of North Carolina, then vote Bowles.

Eat less meat, save more grain, and save the world from hunger
By HALLEY AELION
Staff Columnist

“I’m Lovin’ It!” The familiar McDonald’s jingle rings all too true. America loves its meat. From chicken wings to frog legs to caviar to good ol’ Happy Meals; whether fried, roasted, barbequed, or raw, America is happy to chow down on animal protein. If McDonald’s lined up all the hamburgers they had sold since 1955, they would reach to the moon and back five complete times. Pepperoni is our country’s number one choice for pizza topping, and “Meat Lovers” pizza from Pizza Hut is quickly becoming a new national favorite. So what’s the big deal? Nothing, right? I mean, they’re called Happy Meals for a reason. They symbolize the best of American life: an easy, tasty, cheap meal. It’s the American way. But maybe the story behind all those Happy Meals and Thanksgiving turkeys and Christmas ducks isn’t so cheerful. Look outside America. Every day, 185.9 million people do not have enough to eat. This number, though large, does not seem that shocking, until you realize all these people live in sub-Saharan Africa. There are 828 million people who do not receive enough food to sustain normal activity throughout the day. All these people live in third world countries. Now look closer to home. Hunger does not discriminate, and America is hungry as well. One out of every eight American households reduces the quality of their diet to take care of necessities such as rent, clothing, and day care. Twelve million American children go hungry every day. You’ve heard these statistics before. They’re horrible, they’re depressing... they’re old news. But this time, they come with good news. You have a chance to help, and it requires little to no effort. September 22 is World Hunger Awareness Day, sponsored by United Against Hunger and several other non-profit partners, such as the Red Cross and The World Food Programme. This day is designed to raise awareness about the problem of hunger around the world. It is also designed, however, to demonstrate how easy it is to make a difference and support the cause of eliminating international famine. There are two ways to make that difference. One requires cents, but don’t panic! As a college student myself, I am well aware every cent counts, so here is a way to make even the littlest donation go a long way. Every Thursday at Crop lunch (11 AM — 1:45 PM in the Union 900 Room), there is a jar for donations. All proceeds go to local and international food banks. This Thursday, all donations will be contributed to the United Nation’s World Food Programme, which focuses its aid on people in need in Africa. It only takes 45 cents to feed a person for a day in Sudan through this organization. By dropping your loose change (be it 2 cents or $2) in the jars at the Crop Walk lunch on Thursday, you are making a difference, and getting a great meal of beans, rice, and cornbread. The other requires sense. And maybe a little bit of sacrifice on your part. Here’s what I mean: anyone who has taken biology has been introduced to the idea of energy flow. Sunlight provides energy to plants which then provide food and energy for humans and animals alike. This system is a great one: the one step it requires to transfer energy from plants to people is efficient and nutritious. When you add more steps, you lose more energy. The perfectly good grain we grow and process for one cow to make a couple steaks could feed ten times more people than the two who sit down to a nice restaurant and order filet mignon. Unfortunately, this path of filet mignon is the one many Americans prefer to take. If America was to reduce its meat consumption by merely 10 percent for only one year, we would be freeing 12 million tons of grain for human consumption! Tired of worrying about the rest of the world? Then worry about yourself. By eating meat, you are exposing yourself to innumerable health risks. Contaminated animal flesh, possible viruses picked up in dirty meat-packing factories, and a heightened risk of obesity, coronary heart disease, hypertension, type II diabetes, diet-related cancers, diverticular disease, constipation and gall stones all come wrapped up with that McDonald’s Happy Meal. Happy now? It is up to students like us to be aware and fight for a difference in the world. So come to the Crop Lunch Thursday. You’re making a difference. Donate at the Crop Lunch Thursday. You’re making a difference. Go vegetarian for a meal. You’re making a difference. With so many super convenient options at your fingertips, it’s still the American way. Just think of it as your very own Happy Meal you’re serving to the world.