8 THE DAVIDSONIAN | Always News

Kiwi bought in Union Café
Banned from alcohol, Sub-Free Students start abusing e-mail
SEE PAGE 4

Sukkah shown on tour
SEE PAGE 6

New student directory latest in stalking technology
Homecoming perfect

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

Have a fulfilling fall break!

Professor caught posing as student on freshman LiveJournal website.

This summer, faced with the daunting task of their approaching first year of college, Davidson College freshmen created a community on the Davidson LiveJournal website. In their community, the incoming first-year students could discuss their feelings about the upcoming year and ask for advice on Davidson topics.

As with any anonymous forum, there is always the possibility of misrepresentation, and this opportunity was used by Professor R.J. Blanton to help incoming freshmen confronted with the prospect of leaving home for the first time. Blanton, a James F. Winston Professor of Psychology for the last seven years at Davidson, had been posting entries on the Davidson LiveJournal Community. However, rather than exposing his true identity, Blanton posted pretending to be a sophomore French major named Pierre. He used the pseudonym of “blantster1285” to begin a dialogue with Elizabeth Majors '08, whose nickname was “thirdbelk4life.” Dr. Blanton first engaged Elizabeth with a response to her question about the renovations to the Belk dormitory. After this initial post, they had several more conversations. The subjects of these conversations ranged from the quality of Commons food to suggestions of which classes to take.

“He told me I should sign up for Psych 101 with Dr. Blanton,” reported Elizabeth. “At the time I really thought he was a sophomore French major named Pierre, but now that I know he was trying to get me to sign up for his class, I’m a little sketched out.”

“Blanster1285” also replied to several other posts, informing students of how the self-scheduled final exam process went, explaining the ins-and-outs of flickerball, and telling people to join the psychology club for which he obviously did not disclose that he served as the faculty advisor. Blanton’s posts consisted of a mix of advice for incoming freshmen and references to popular culture, all under the guise of a rising sophomore student.

“Hey yall! A/S/L check! My name is Pierre, and I’m from Atlanta. Any other A-town folk out there? ATL baby! Let me tell u a bit about Davidson. First there’s the Freshmen Olympics, which this year is called Baker Nite, but that’s really just an excuse to give you a swim test! Make sure u get a futon to have people over on, and don’t get the mini-fridge! It’s a rip! Who’s living on 3rd Belk? That was my hall last year, and we owned everyone in flickerball! BTW, def come hang out at Akers after school starts! Anyone see Old School? ‘Ring the bell Blue!”

According to Blanton, no students suspected that he was not who he claimed to be. “All I really needed to do was know some Dave Matthews lyrics and talk about ‘Napoleon Dynamite.’ I planned to complain about all my work and say I wish I had joined a frat, but it turned out I didn’t need that much conversation material,” Blanton explained. “People from the community completely bought my pseudonym, even those students who are members of the class of ’07 and knew there was no Pierre in their class.”

It was not until after the first week of school that anyone discovered his true identity. The deception came to light after a curious sophomore logged Blanton’s I.P. address after discovering that there was no Pierre in SAE, the fraternity that he claimed to belong to, and then posting blantster1285’s true identity on the web log. By that point, no one was using the LiveJournal community anymore, so Dr. Blanton avoided any kind of public blog humiliation. Still, Blanton claimed to be extremely embarrassed by his public unmasking. “I can’t even look at the freshmen in my Psych 101 class with a straight face anymore. I just feel like such a sketchball.”

Inquest launched into Laundry Service misdeeds

Operations at the Lula Bell Houston Laundry have been suspended indefinitely in order for investigators to launch an inquest into alleged illegal actions on the part of some employees. Initial reports state that members of the laundry team have been selling students’ clothing on eBay for at least five years. According to sources, almost every item of clothing “lost” by students or left too long in the dormitory laundry rooms over the past five years has been specifically taken from the laundry for the purpose of resale.

Davidson has long been renowned for its laundry service, which is included in each student’s tuition. During the College’s budget discussion this past fall, the subject of the laundry service’s budget came up. Over the past four years, the laundry’s budget has remained constant, while every other department has increased expenditures by an average of thirteen percent. While content about not having to cut into the athletic budget for laundry-related costs, many on the board were curious about how the laundry could remain solvent, given the high rate of laundry turnover and the costs of employment, supplies, power, equipment, and facility maintenance.

After manager June Anderson failed to respond to Head of Business Services Joseph Hamilton’s many meeting requests, he decided to see her in person in order to discuss the laundry’s finances. “I just wanted to get some information on the basic costs of running the laundry facility,” explained Hamilton. “Finally I went there as it...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

was closing on a Saturday.” Hamilton claimed that he walked in on Anderson handing out one hundred dollar bills to each of the employees. He also asserted that he witnessed each of the staff members muttering something that sounded like an oath of silence to Anderson after they received their money. Hamilton said that he waited until the police were seen carrying bundles of socks through the door. Anderson was questioned about the fiscal management of the laundry service. According to Hamilton, “She was uncooperative, giving far too many vague facts and descriptions of policies that should be very specific.” As he turned to leave, he happened to notice a pair of socks labeled with his laundry number sticking out of a partly open closet. He proceeded to point them out and asked Anderson why they had been separated. “She told me to keep out of there and made some kind of threat about my dark-colored clothes,” Hamilton claimed, “then she shoved the socks in my hand and hurried me out the door.” Hamilton has since stated that the closet was full of socks and undershirts, some with numbers, some without.

Hamilton eventually unearthed a ledger of expenditures and profits that stated that the laundry service should have been unable to pay its own expenses throughout the last five years. He went to student services bookkeeper Wanda Mae Harper about the inconsistencies between this ledger and the annual fiscal statements by the laundry service. Harper, after listening to him describe in detail how there seemed to be a large influx of money covering the service up to and beyond the break-even point, confessed that she had forged the annual reports to hide the illegal sale of socks, undershirts, and even shirts and pants for five years. Harper stated, “I thought it was just a temporary way to give the laundry room a boost back to breaking even. [Anderson] promised me it would never progress beyond socks...I had no idea it would go this far with us taking Lacoste shirts and Diesel jeans.”

The conspiracy apparently extends through many on the staff. Any participant showing hesitation or uncertainty has suffered an unfortunate “laundry accident.” Harper gave details, prior to being taken into safe custody, of the workers having slowly amassed an average of 1400 socks and 250 undershirts over the course of a year. Recognizable articles of clothing were taken more cautiously, but with increasing frequency through the years. Recently, khaki shorts and Polo shirts became the laundry’s two biggest sellers. Harper is confident in her safety as a key witness for the case against Anderson, but still has insisted upon having a campus security officer assigned to her house.

---

Wednesday, October 6, 2004
The Davidsonian

New hire spices up the Union Café

Some may have noticed the changes in the Union Café recently in response to flagging revenue. Most visible is the addition of a new manager and a new chef staff. As part of his three-pronged strategy to improve the Café, the new manager, Ross Younger, has already added daily pasta specials, a more diverse fruit selection, and a new line of themed hamburgers. The final prong in the strategy, however, was just implemented last week when Dining Services hired Frank McDonald to serve as the Café’s new teppanyaki chef.

The new hibachi is located in place of the old Oven section after it was closed down due to its lackluster sales. According to McDonald, “We were seeking something to separate us from the competition. Everyone’s bored of the same old Wildcat Burgers, Chicken Baby Blue, and Bistro Beef Sandwiches. Plus, I gave my crew failing marks on presentation, and I think that Frank should help us improve immensely in that realm.” Already after one week, the new teppanyaki chef seems to be a huge success. Most visibly, at six o’clock, the Union Café is already packed to watch McDonald perform his most popular stunt, in which he pours a large quantity of oil onto the grill and sets it ablaze into a remarkable fireball. It also serves to disinfect the surface of the hibachi.

While waiting for an order of hibachi steak, Josh Stevens ’06 commented, “The chef's flamboyant personality and flashy grilling style makes the time you spend waiting for the food fly by.” For example, when Josh ordered the vegetable side, “the chef took the onions, stacked them up, and made the flaming volcano thing out of it.” Situational humor is also a forte of the new chef. According to students, McDonald adds an interactive element to ordering food. Diane Russell ’08 reported, “I ordered the shrimp and steak combination plate. While he was preparing the shrimp, he stuck his knife in the tail, wiggled it around, and said ‘Flipper.’ I burst out in laughter, but that was precisely what he wanted, because as soon as my mouth opened, he tossed a shrimp tail in it using his spatula.”

Mary Clark ’06 also finds that McDonald improves her Union Café experience. “Even though it takes longer to get my food, it seems shorter because I’m always laughing and having a good time. He does this trick where he takes an egg, rolls it on his spatula, and pronounces it an ‘egg roll.’ I find that jokes like these make my dining experience much more fulfilling. Plus, the reasonable prices for traditional Japanese steakhouse fare don’t hurt.”

McDonald came to Davidson with a lot of experience in the art of Teppan cooking. He got his start in 1994 as an apprentice at the Benihana restaurant in Alpharetta, Georgia. After his apprenticeship ended, he was hired by Kobe Japanese Steakhouse in Mooresville, North Carolina as an associate chef. For his outstanding work, he was promoted to chef in 2001, and served in that capacity at Kobe until early last week.