8 THE DAVIDSONIAN Arts & LIVING WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17, 2004

The Strokes provide music with attitude
By CURTIS SCHMADER
Staff Writer

The best live bands are two-faced, like the Roman god Janus. They present one aspect of their sound on record
while saving another for their live shows. TV on the Radio, a band that played recently in Greensboro, has just
such a split personality. Their music, which sounds meticulously crafted and produced on their studio albums, is looser and harder
rocking in person. When TV on the Radio perform, they’re not afraid to put a dramatic spin on any given
song in their repertoire.

At the opposite end of the spectrum from TV on the Radio lie fellow New Yorkers the Strokes, who played
at the Grady Cole Center in Charlotte on Saturday night. The Strokes are no Janus, so fans and curiosity seekers
shouldn’t attend one of their shows expecting to hear radical twists on the tightly wound grooves that have earned the
band its following. The thrill of Saturday’s show—and any other Strokes show, for that matter—stemmed from the band’s precision and
technical brilliance. In these respects, they are a marvel.

Playing all the songs from their debut album “Is This It” and nearly every song from their sophomore release “Room
On Fire,” as well as the non-album track “New York City Cops” and a Clash cover, the Strokes didn’t leave
a single note out of place. They stopped and started on a dime, their most intricate guitar breaks sounded just
as sharp live as on their albums, and they proved that they have one of the hardest-driving rhythm sections in
rock and roll. Which is to say, the Strokes rocked.

And despite the band’s frequent affectation of a take-it-or-leave-it, devil-may-care attitude in their lyrics and media appearances, they put blood
and sweat into every minute of Saturday’s show. Singer Julian Casablancas may have sounded jaded and ennui-stricken when he addressed
the audience between songs on Saturday night (“So what do you people do around here, go to f—ing college or
somethin’?”), but by the end of the show his voice was cracking from the strain of a performance that was
simultaneously fierce and disaffected. Who knew how much effort it took to make lines like “Can’t you see I’m trying/
I don’t even like it” sound convincing?

Most of the band either matched or exceeded Casablancas’ intensity. Albert Hammond, Jr. and Nick Valensi played their interlocking guitar
parts with infectious zeal, and Fabrizio Moretti was absorbed in his propulsive drumming. Only bassist Nikolai Fraiture looked less than
enthusiastic, and he often seemed more dazed than anything else.

During the best moments of the show, the Strokes were fully deserving of their rabid fanbase—even if many of the
shrieking teenage girls in the audience were less concerned with the music than with the group’s bohemian boy-band image. These
were moments when the band’s New Yawk-pretty boy posturing fell by the wayside. When everyone stopped short so that Valensi
could launch into the flawless...

Pulitzer-winner Cunningham to visit Davidson
By LAUREN LAW
Staff Writer

When Michael Cunningham was fifteen, his secret crush tossed him Virginia Woolf’s “Mrs. Dalloway” and said, “Why don’t you read
this and try to be less stupid.” Even during his adolescence, he remembers being amazed at Woolf’s ability to manipulate
language in the same way that Jimi Hendrix manipulated a guitar.

In speaking of Woolf’s novel, Cunningham says, “‘Mrs. Dalloway’ made me into a reader, it was only a matter of
time until I became a writer.” It seems appropriate that Cunningham’s third novel and 1999 Pulitzer Prize winner, “The Hours,”
is an homage to the novel and the author that prompted his love for and pursuit of the written word.

Cunningham grew up in Cincinnati, OH before pursuing a bachelor’s...Degree in English literature from Stanford University. He went from there
to the University of Iowa, where he earned an M.F.A. Since that time, Cunningham has published four novels, three of
which include his 1990 debut “A Home at the End of the World,” followed by “Flesh and Blood” in 1995,
and his 1998 national bestseller “The Hours.” Cunningham now instructs writing at Columbia University and Brooklyn College. “The Hours,” an
improvisation of “Mrs. Dalloway,” consists of three intertwined novellas that recount a day in the life of women who are
connected to Woolf's novel (the working title of which was “The Hours”). The novel opens with Woolf on the day
that she began writing the novel in London. From there, it describes a day in the life of Clarissa Vaughn,
Cunningham’s 1990’s adaptation of the character Mrs. Dalloway, whose culture and time period allow her to do many things Woolf’s
Dalloway could not pursue, such as a career and homosexuality. The final tale excerpts a day from the life of
Laura Brown, a wife and mother in 1949 Los Angeles, who is reading Mrs. Dalloway while inadvertently nearing suicide. The
novel begins with Woolf’s own act of suicide, and moves backward and forward in time from that point. December 2002
marked the release of the major motion picture based on this novel, starring Meryl Streep, Julianne Moore, and Nicole Kidman.

Dr. Suzanne Churchill taught “The Hours” for her English Senior Colloquium module and is teaching the novel this semester in
her Literary Analysis class. Churchill holds that what makes his work compelling is his deep understanding of individual characters and
their inner lives. However, Churchill asserts that these inner lives are, “by no means an isolated interior. He portrays people
satisfying that need for intimacy through unconventional channels... His worlds are peopled with complicated individuals who are involved with each
other through convoluted entanglements, and yet it is those entanglements that also sustain them.”

Cunningham is Davidson’s second annual Joel Conarroe Lecturer. This lectureship honors Davidson alum Joel Conarroe ’56 by featuring a celebrated
author on campus to enhance the student’s literary experience through readings and seminars. After his graduation from Davidson, Conarroe returned
for one semester as a guest professor and received an Honorary Doctor of Letters degree. He served for seventeen years
as the president of the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, a scholarship organization based on merit and creativity in humanities,
arts, and sciences. He also acted as chair of the English department and Dean of Arts and Sciences at the
University of Pennsylvania, as well as the executive director of the Modern Language Association. Currently, he is president of the
PEN America Center, an association of writers who promote national literacy, the right to free expression, and the enjoyment of
reading contemporary literature. Conarroe is recognized as both a writer and editor of books and essays covering American poetry and
fiction. In his lifetime, Conarroe has been a member of more than twenty literary juries, including the Pulitzer Prize jury.

Cunningham will give a presentation next Monday, Mar. 22, in the Duke Family Performance Hall. The lecture begins at 8
p.m., followed by a book signing and reception. Tickets are free but mandatory, and are currently available in the College
Union Ticket Office. Call 704-894-2135 between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. on weekdays for information.

The Strokes played last Saturday at the Grady Cole Center. Guitar lick before “Reptilia”’s chorus, or when Casablancas dived into
the crowd for the final lines of the set closer “Take It or Leave It,” the Strokes were ardent enough
to transform their trademark precision into a remarkable performance.

Got Art? Write for Arts and Living. Contact sarobinson or cahodge.
