THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2004 3

College begins preparation for SACS reaffirmation

The process of reaffirmation includes a survey of all campus services from academics to student life.

By Don WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The office of Planning and Institutional Research has begun preparations for the renewal of Davidson’s accreditation with the Commission on
Colleges, a division of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) that certifies institutions of higher learning in Alabama,
Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and Latin America. This process of reaffirmation occurs
every 10 years. Davidson was last reaffirmed in 1996 and this cycle will be completed in June 2007, as SACS
requested Davidson wait an extra year because many schools are being reaffirmed for 2006.

The process starts with a comprehensive survey of all areas of the services provided by the campus, from academics to
campus life. Director of Planning and Institutional Research Linda LeFauve said, “There are standards set by SACS that cover everything
from academics to technology to just about everything that could affect the learning process, and Davidson must show compliance with
them.”

A more comprehensive study of one aspect of the school, known as a Quality Enhancement Plan, must take place. This
study must look at one area in terms of what it means for student learning. This aspect of the reaffirmation
process is relatively new. Davidson participated in an early incarnation of the Quality Enhancement Plan in 1996, when institutions had
the option of completing as few as one to as many as five in-depth studies. Davidson chose to study the
maximum five areas.

The self-study program allows a college to assess its progress in meeting its long-term goals and in remaining faithful to
its institutional mission. According to LeFauve, the concept of a comprehensive self-study is nothing new to the college accreditation process;
it is widespread for institutions applying for reaffirmation. All major accrediting organizations have some form of a Quality Enhancement Plan.

Community forums and other forms of campus communication about the progress of the reaffirmation process will occur in the future.
The college will submit an electronic report to SACS sometime in the spring of 2006 outlining the institution’s compliance with
SACS standards. This report will be studied by a compliance review team that will provide feedback and allow for concerns
to be addressed. The review team will then make a campus visit in the fall of 2006 and will meet
with members of the administration, faculty, staff, and students.

“If we were not accredited, we would not be able to receive federal student loans. This would place us at
a significant disadvantage to our peers,” said President Bobby Vagt. However, the benefits to the college are not only monetary.
“The benefit to accreditation is that it provides an objective, externally vetted appraisal of how well a school adheres to
standards that all the schools in the accreditation region have had a hand in shaping,” said LeFauve. “It also provides
an opportunity for each school to take a good, hard look at itself.”

MECCA, from page 1

courses (101 and 102). Students learn through workbooks and accompanying DVDs, and then meet with a local Arabic-speaking person for
2.5hours a week. The students meet often to practice speaking skills, much like an AT session for Spanish or French.
That tutor is paid a small sum by the school. At the end of the year, an external evaluator meets
with each student to test his or her oral skills and give a final grade. SILP also offers Italian, Hindi,
Swahili, and Japanese if a native speaker living in the area is willing to meet with the students.

Jemison acknowledged that hiring a full-time faculty member to teach Arabic would not be an easy process. “There is no
magic wand and we know there are very real obstacles in bringing an Arabic professor to Davidson. This is why
we are committed to working with the faculty and the administration to work towards this deserving goal,” he said.

SGA Academic Committee Chairman Jack Hubbard ’06 met with Jemison last week about getting SGA support. Hubbard, who is the
junior class president, said, “I’m with him 100%, and we will both be presenting a resolution in front of SGA
in two weeks.”

MECCA will present their petition and proposal to the Academic Trustee Committee on Oct. 7. Jemison foresees several difficulties for
the school: funding a full-time professor’s salary for a tenure, hiring outside of an existing department structure because of Davidson’s
“strong democratic faculty,” and deciding that students will have a sustainable interest in Arabic. “We believe that the U.S. will
be engaged in the Middle East for many years to come, and that the need for Arabic is not a
passing academic trend but indeed a critical language that will find its way into academic institutions across America,” said Jemison.

MECCA met for the first time a little over 3 weeks ago and quickly began its flurry of campaigning, setting
up booths in the Union and outside of Chambers. Over 40 students have joined the cultural organization, different from the
religious group, the Muslim Student Association (MSA) that began fall 2003. MECCA plans to promote understanding and awareness of Middle
Eastern culture by holding a variety of events and services, including one big Arabic food and dance festival. Other events
and services they are planning include screenings of fiction and documentary Middle Eastern films, an Arabic table at Vail Commons,
a Middle Eastern News email distribution list, guest lecturers, campus-wide debates, Arabic Tea Time discussions (through one of the Dean
Rusk Center for International Studies programs), and cosponsoring the Ramadan ‘id al Fitr celebration with the MSA and Interfaith.

MECCA’s other officers include Alaa’ Odeh ’04 (Vice President), Rob Mark ’08 (Treasurer/Public Relations Chair), and Megal Atias ’08 (Secretary).

GOT TROUBLES?
Unified Messaging — There’s just one number you need to know: 29300 Option 2. Follow The Menus. Open Sunday-Thursday, 7-10pm.
Voicemail available 24x7 or email resnet.

The Fine Print (You knew there would be some): If you’re having problems with installation or setup, peripherals (digicams, printers,
etc.) or unsupported software, we can’t help. Call your vendor or the manufacturer. For a list of supported software, visit
our website: http://www2.davidson.edu/ts/resnet/.

Wireless Networking, games, operating system installation, hardware.
