DAVIDSON COLLEGE  
The BD  
“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”  
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2004  
First Class U.S. Postage Paid  
Permit #1 Davidson, NC  
VOLUME 96, NUMBER 1  

Davidson keeps seventh place national ranking  
By BEN WHIGHAM  
Senior Staff Writer  

U.S. News’ latest collegiate ranking guide reaffirmed Davidson’s status as one of the country’s premier liberal arts colleges. For the second straight year, Davidson earned seventh place in the national rankings. U.S. News ranked Davidson number one for faculty resources, which was determined based on factors including class size and the student-faculty ratio.  

“We're seeking quality,” says Dean of Faculty Clark Ross, “and we appreciate the fact that it’s recognized.”  

Despite its high rank, Davidson placed 24th in financial resources, well behind other schools populating the top ten.  

“If you really look at the other schools on that top ten list, the financial difference is stark,” says Dean of Students Tom Shandley.  

see Ranking, page 3  

Davidson ranked first in faculty resources.  

The Class of 2008’s traditional photo was taken on the football field rather than on Chambers Lawn.  

First years tire quickly of orientation activities  
By MARY KATHERINE EVANS  
Staff Writer  

Freshman Orientation smoothly guided 466 first-year students through their first week at Davidson, though some of those students tired quickly from the continuous activities. Dean of Students Tom Shandley and Associate Dean of Students Kathy Bray-Merrell both spoke proudly of this new class of Wildcats, boasting their statistics, both of geographical and ethnic diversity. Shandley especially noticed their “outstanding enthusiasm about being here.”  

Bray-Merrell agreed wholeheartedly, saying, “I love this class. They are such an energetic, engaged, bright, and curious group of young people.”  

This enthusiasm, however, was not always present when the first years remembered their orientation experience. Rather, several of the first years voiced their dislike for the repetitive meetings and information sessions.  

“Keep the speeches shorter and more lively,” Karina Todd ’08 said. “I do understand the need to get the information across; however, with the exceptions of Dean Shandley and President Vagt, they got rather painful.”  

Bray-Merrell said that the “issue of balance is the key challenge of Orientation. It is important to keep new students busy but not too overwhelmed.”  

The Orientation service project, which is programmed for each entering class, was a little different this year. Accompanied by members of the faculty, the first years participated in a 6.2 mile CROP walk and luncheon.  

see Orientation, page 4  

Honor Council holds open trial  
Student found guilty of cheating in first open trial in two years  
By DAVID CROW  
Editor-in-Chief  

Last Thursday the Davidson College Honor Council held their first open trial in two years. Dr. Job Thomas brought charges against Thomas Powell ’04 of cheating on his final exam in History 331. Powell was ultimately found guilty by the Honor Council and given a failing grade in History 331 and authorized withdrawals in his other courses that semester.  

The trial began with the six members of the Honor Council who would act as the jury in this trial each receiving a packet containing a copy of Powell’s final exam along with copies of websites Dr. Thomas had found which he believed Powell had used to cheat on his exam.  

Dr. Thomas wasthe first witness to testify. He stated that he became suspicious about Powell’s exam given the extremely high level of accuracy, both factually and grammatically, of a test that was supposed to have been conducted in only three hours. “This amount of accuracy is not possible,” Dr. Thomas said. “I could not get all these names right myself.” Dr. Thomas went on to explain how after he became suspicious of Powell’s exam, he conducted a Google search for websites relating to the topics on the exam. The websites he found contained texts virtually identical to what Powell had written on his exam, right down to the British spellings of certain words. “Ninety percent of sentences and see Council, page 2

By David Crow AND AMEE PATEL Editor-in-Chief & Managing Editor Emeritus

A report from the Faculty Committee on Admission and Financial Aid last April alleged that President Vagt broke Faculty Bylaws by admitting a student to the class of 2008 who had already been deemed inadmissible by the Committee. In response to the report, the Board of Trustees approved new guidelines last month to improve cooperation between the Committee and the President during the admissions process.

The report signed by the six faculty members of the Committee stated, “...we regret to report to the Faculty that the President circumvented the admission process by admitting to the Class of 2008 an applicant who was denied admission by a majority vote of the voting faculty serving on the Faculty Committee on Admission and Financial Aid.” The report was sent to the entire faculty and was subsequently leaked by an unknown source through email to many students, raising questions as to whether or not Vagt had in fact exceeded his authority.

According to the Faculty Bylaws, the Faculty Committee has “the authority to determine by majority vote the admissibility of any applicant.” The Committee passes only the applicants who meet a certain benchmark of admissibility to the Office of Admission and Financial Aid. The incoming class is selected from this pool of “admissible” students. The student referred to in the report had not received a majority vote in the Committee but had been granted admission by Vagt.

Incident highlights discrepancies in admission protocol

While information on the incident could not be obtained for legal reasons, President Vagt said, “In the course of the admissions process for the class of 2008, a situation came to the front that uncovered some misunderstandings of the respective roles of the Dean of Admissions, Faculty Admissions Committee, and the President.” “This was exacerbated by lack of clarity and consistency in official documents,” he continued.

The two inconsistent documents Vagt mentioned were the Faculty Bylaws, which were the basis of the Committee’s complaint, and the College’s Constitution. According to the Faculty Bylaws, six teaching Faculty members and the Dean of Admission and Financial Aid sit on the Committee. The President and Dean of Faculty are also members but do not have voting privileges. Yet the Committee’s report claimed that Vagt overstepped his see Bylaws, page 4

Dr. Job Thomas testifies against Thomas Powell ’04 during last Thursday’s Honor Council trial. SEE PAGE 3

Perspectives, PAGE 12

What happened to the Dream Team? SPORTS, PAGE 12