THE Davidsonian SPORTS WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2004

For you sports fans... WEEK'S PICKS OF THE POLL

Before this weekend I decided that, if the Panthers won, I would not write this column. I figured I would just sit back and let all the Panthers fans enjoy themselves as they ran around in their newly purchased black and Carolina blue jerseys pretending to be die-hards. I knew that Richard and Jeff, hailing from the cold New England corner of the country, would fill the columns below mine with pro-Patriot propaganda. I guessed it was only fair that I suppress my bitterness from the Jets’ lost season and continue to patiently explain to the Panther “faithful” watching games with me that the clock is supposed to keep running after first downs in the NFL.

But after going to Charlotte on Sunday to watch the games at a friend’s apartment, I just can’t help myself. Upon arriving in the Queen City and walking to the nearest supermarket for some lunch, I found myself hoping and praying that I wouldn’t bump into some fan who had forgotten to take the price tags off of his Jake Delhomme jersey. I pictured him saying something like “Don’t mess up my Delhomme” or “Watch the Delhomme,” proudly pronouncing every syllable with practiced accuracy while patting himself on the back for being such a terrific fan that he could say the quarterback’s name. This would undoubtedly send me into a tirade about how he had just learned to pronounce the name of “Number 17” two weeks ago when the playoffs started, in what must have been a city-wide informational session on learning the names and colleges of all the starters on the team. Then, when he went out of his way to mention that his favorite new star had attended Louisiana-Lafayette, I might launch into a speech about how Panther fans were nothing but fair-weather followers who didn’t pay an ounce of attention to the team during their 7-9 campaign last year, which I promised myself I would refrain from doing.

Luckily, I didn’t find a single Panthers jersey inside. The one person I did see wearing team colors in that Harris Teeter was the guy in a faded Donovan McNabb jersey who was standing in front of me in line. Once the cashier finally recognized that green and white were the colors of the team Carolina was playing in a few short hours, she refused to bag his groceries. When he politely protested, she accused him of being a bandwagon jumper before pointing to her glittering Panthers button and storming off. I bit my tongue.

Panther fans ride bandwagon into Houston

Real Panthers fans do exist, however. Two, as far as I know. I sat down to watch the game with my two friends who have owned season tickets since the franchise came into existence, and who actually went to games last year and even during the 1-15 debacle of 2001. Unfortunately, they were far outnumbered by those Panther fans who were rooting for Carolina because “They’re the next closest team to me and the (insert random crappy team here) didn’t make the playoffs” or, simply, “We're going to the Super Bowl!!”

Then, the epitome of all that is wrong with “Panthermonium” (cleverly coined by the Charlotte Observer) walked in. Wearing his trendy new Panthers jersey with a matching black sweatpants and hat ensemble, my friend’s neighbor let out a few enthusiastic cries of “Yeah Baby” as Ricky Manning Jr. collected his third interception of the night before announcing to the Eagles fans in the room that he was from Philadelphia. When they asked in disbelief what team he was rooting for, he responded that, actually, he would be happy no matter which team won, since both of “his teams” were playing. This is quite possibly the most annoying thing a fan can say. In other words, he was a die-hard Panthers fan as long as they were having a good year and in the playoffs and beating his other favorite team and not being overshadowed by the Tar Heels or Blue Devils or Wolfpack or Braves. I bit my tongue again.

... stories to look forward to in 2004 —

Former major leaguer Pete Rose, after enduring a 13-year ban from Major League Baseball, succeeds in being inducted into the baseball hall of fame. In his second-to-last year of eligibility for the hall, Rose accomplishes forgiveness and acceptance with the league he once bet on. After admitting to his fault, publicly apologizing for it, and proving a change in his lifestyle, the former Cincinnati Red gets voted in with 215 votes. In his acceptance speech in Cooperstown on August 8, Rose begins, “What was it? 3 to 1 odds that I’d be standing up here today?”

... Trade talks between the Texas Rangers and

By RICHARD CONNOLLY Staff Columnist

How ‘bout them Patriots!?

Say what you will about Boston and our fans. Talk about how obnoxious we are and how we have no respect for anyone outside New England. We all know we’re the city everyone lovesto hate. And while most of us feel as though we’re just misunderstood—after all, how would you feel if your baseball team hasn’t won the World Series since the Woodrow Wilson administration—there is no denying New England has an exciting and talented football team this year. After dismantling the Indianapolis Colts 24-14 on Sunday afternoon behind three interceptions from Ty Law and five field goals out of Adam Vinatieri, New England is going to the Super Bowl for the second time in three years. And make no mistake about it, this is no fluke squad: we have won fourteen straight games. The last NFL team to put together such a streak was the 1972 Miami Dolphins, over thirty years ago. In 1972 none of you were born, disco was all the rage, and experimental drugs were not exactly frowned upon. Sure, most of our victories have been rather unconvincing, some may even say “lucky,” but on Sunday night we scored six times (one touchdown, five field goals, not including that abominable safety), while holding what many were calling the NFL’s hottest offense to just two touchdowns. In most other sports a 6-2 score is considered a blowout. Had we turned some of those field goals into touchdowns, the celebration would have begun long before the final whistle. Our defense is simply insane, especially the secondary, which treated the Colts receivers the way Johnny Knoxville treats his body. Indeed, some of the hits thrown by the likes of Eugene Wilson and Rodney Harrison made the WWE look like the WB. And after watching Peyton Manning surrender four interceptions, one couldn’t help but think the hard-working co-MVP had burned out his retinas watching all that game film he digests after each practice. Manning is a phenomenal quarterback, but up against the “Homeland Defense,” as they are calling it in Foxboro these days, the young star looked utterly “flummoxed,” as the oh-so-smart Jim Nantz accurately stated. As good as the defense is, though, we wouldn’t be winning ballgames without some offense. Tom Brady threw one interception in ten home games and spreads the ball out like no other, and Vinatieri has been unconscious this postseason. Against the Tennessee Titans two weeks ago, Vinatieri drilled a 46-yard game-winning field goal in sub-zero temperatures. Kicking a football in such conditions can feel only slightly better than kicking a television set. 

In a perfect world, Super Bowls would be played all over the country, not just in tropical climates more suitable for daiquiris and beach volleyball than beers and football. But, like restricting the men’s golf tour to men only, this logical concept has not yet been accepted by the higher-ups. Instead, the biggest sporting event of the year is played in such fan-friendly and warm-weather cities like Houston, where the Pats will clash with the Carolina Panthers in two weekends. For so many of us Pats fans at Davidson, friendships will be put on hold that weekend, as we do our best to avoid any and all Panther supporters and unite for the greater good of our team. I'll be at my place watching with several other members of Patriots Nation, and if any of you can show a valid driver’s license from any of the five New England states (excluding southwest Connecticut, of course) feel free to come join the fun.

The Boston Red Sox come to a close in late January. The two teams come to an agreement with their two multi-million dollar players, Alex Rodriguez and Manny Ramirez. After months of discussion, a short break, and a final push, the teams decide not to trade the players, but to trade teams. Yes, that’s right, the Texas Red Sox and The Boston Rangers. A-Rod stays in Texas and Manny in Bean Town. And the fans, well, you can begin trade talks with families in the other region.

Ericsson Stadium and the Carolina Panthers set an NFL record on Sunday, September 22, just four weeks into their post-Super Bowl season. After starting the 2004 campaign 0-3, the once Super Bowl-bound Panthers play the Atlanta Falcons in front of a record five fans. Head coach John Fox is quoted after the game: “I don’t know what has happened; the stadium seemed to fill up last year when we were winning.”

WUSA, the women’s soccer league that went bankrupt and shut down in the summer of 2003, begins talks to build up their once-beloved league. The main problem with their failure was a lack of money through sponsorships, so the league joins up with the WNBA to participate in mooching more money from the NBA. Other women’s leagues also erupt in talks—the WNHL, WEL, and WHY?

Lastly, look forward to the nation’s most widely watched sport, “Most Extreme Elimination Challenge,” as it goes global. ESPN buys the sport and commentating rights to the once Spike TV-owned phenomenon. Americans, Mexicans, Canadians, and anyone else will be able to compete in the outrageous games, and the likes of Stuart Scott, Dan Patrick, and Dick Vitale provide the silly remarks.