16 \ THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2004

Construction on the new Alumni Stadium was slowed in the permit process. The new venue will include lights for night games, a new scoreboard, and a state-of-the-art playing surface.

Team hopes to play on field this weekend, may not be likely with rain

By BOSSY DEMURO
Staff Writer

One of the hot issues on campus the past few months has been the construction of the new soccer-specific complex, 1992 Team Field at Alumni Stadium. The complex, located on the site of the old varsity soccer field near Martin Court, will house the Davidson men’s and women’s soccer teams for years to come. Unfortunately, delays in construction have held off the opening of the stadium for several weeks.

“[The delay is] certainly disappointing; we hoped [the stadium would] be ready for the first game [of the season],” says Athletic Director Jim Murphy. “Everyone is anxious to get out there.” According to Murphy, the project is running about two weeks late, but he also says that such delays are expected in big construction projects. “We experienced significant issues with

Volleyball wraps up tough weekend
‘Cats go 0-3 at home in annual Wildcat Classic

By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

The Davidson volleyball team had a rough time of it as the host of the annual Mizuno Wildcat Classic, dropping all three of their weekend games against Virginia Commonwealth, Florida Atlantic, and DePaul.

The Wildcats started out strong in their first match of the tournament against VCU, taking a 2-1 lead in the best-of-five format against the Rams. VCU rallied to tie the score at two games apiece, but the Wildcats jumped out to a 14-10 lead in the fifth frame, and had four match points to claim their first victory of the season. The ’Cats could not put away VCU, however, as the Rams scored six consecutive points, including three on Davidson attack errors, to win the game and the match, 3-2 (29-31, 31-27, 26-30, 30-24, 16-14).

In the first match, the ’Cats held true to senior captain Tamara Gallen’s ’05 statement that they would focus on defense, as five players had double figures in digs, and Gallen herself recorded a spectacular 40 digs. Katie Pierruci ’08 led the offense with 29 kills. That, paired with her 32 digs, gave

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Despite many opportunities and an offense that dominated ball possession, the men’s soccer team had a hard time finding the back of the net in the home opener vs. Marquette. That was until David Sartorio ’06 found Robbie Reynolds ’07 in front of the goal, who kicked in the game-winning shot with about 16 minutes left in the second half. It was Reynolds’ second GW goal and third goal in four attempts for his career, as he builds his reputation as a “finisher.”

Player of the Week
Kelly Fillnow ‘04. Cross Country
Hometown: Jacksonville, FL
Major: History

Last weekend in the 6K Charlotte Relays, the senior partnered up with Brittany Crawford ‘08, posting a combined time of 21:32.1. Fillnow, who also stars for the tennis team, hasn't lost a step since last season when she placed second at the SoCon championships, earning all-conference honors.

Pierruci her second double-double of the season. In the second match of the tournament, the Wildcats looked to rebound from the disappointing Friday night loss, butwere unable to hang with Florida Atlantic. The Owls took all three games from the Wildcats for a 3-0 (30-25, 30-20, 30-27) victory, using a strong .282 attack percentage to pound the Wildcat defense. Pierruci and Gallen again led the team in offense and defense, with 16 kills and 18 digs, respectively. Pierruci earned her third double-double in the match, recording a solid 13 digs. Still, neither was able to help Davidson recover from an anemic .150 attack percentage for the game.

In the final game of the tournament, the hard-hitting DePaul Blue Demons, champions of the Wildcat Classic, again took down the Wildcats, 3-0 (30-21, 30-13, 30-20). DePaul overwhelmed Davidson with a strong .310 attack percentage, a common theme for the offensive juggernaut all weekend, as the Blue Demons moved to 4-0 on the young season. Gallen completed the three matches as defensive leader for Davidson, this time with 19 digs. However, Liz Williamson ’07 stepped up to lead the offense in the third match, recording 14 kills. Over the three matches, the Wildcats dug up a total of 252 balls.

The Wildcats next travel to Flagstaff, Arizona this weekend for the NAU Fiesta Bowl Tournament. Their next home match will be against Charlotte on Sept. 14.

New $2 million soccer stadium delayed, but worth the wait

Permitting early on in the process. Every permit requires a review of plans. The permitting was the biggest cause for the delay, as it can be a very aggravating, detailed process. Also, the weather was a little bit of an issue early in the summer,” says Murphy. “Fortunately, the physical plant has been phenomenal in managing our projects. [They have been] very professional, and extremely competent.”

Head men’s soccer coach Matt Spear ’93 sees it the same way. “Delays tend to happen with major construction projects. The players are very excited about the new venue. They recognize that delays occur and are beyond our control.” According to Murphy, the playing surface is spectacular, and “[the crew is] trying to get the light poles up. The scoreboard will be working shortly.”

The complex, which will cost an estimated $2 million, is coming in right on budget, and will be ideal for soccer games when finished. The addition of lights makes night soccer possible; this was never an option at the old stadium. Also, the viewing experience has been enhanced with more bleachers, a new scoreboard, and a concession stand, among other things. Locker rooms for the men’s and women’s teams are also being built at the stadium.

Last Wednesday, the men’s team opened its season against Marquette at Richardson Stadium, but at least one player did not mind the delayed opening of the new stadium. “I’m actually not that disappointed. As hopeful as one can be about any project of this magnitude, you have to expect delays of one sort or another, and Richardson Stadium is not a bad alternative for the time being. I’d say I’m more anxious than disappointed,” says Robbie Reynolds ’07, who scored the lone goal in Davidson’s 1-0 victory over Marquette.

As for the field itself, “the bulk of the cost was spent on what matters most — the field. With a first-rate surface, irrigation, and drainage system, the field will handle inclement weather and provide a year-round quality playing environment,” says Spear.

see Construction, page 15

Tamara Gallen ’05 had 77 digs in 3 matches.