THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2004

Staff Editorial

Proud Davidsonians

Recently, the Ad Hoc Committee of the Board of Trustees recommended to the entire Board that the Trustee bylaws be
changed to allow non-Christians to serve on the Board. If the Board approves this recommendation, it will be a monumental
decision. For the first time in Davidson’s distinguished history, we will finally fulfill our stated mission.

Yet many students might ask why they should be concerned about a requirement that is unlikely to affect them. There
are several answers to this question.

First, there is the issue of integrity. When every student graduates from Davidson, President Vagt grants them “all rights and
privileges” of a graduate of Davidson. Yet with this requirement in place, that statement is not entirely true since non-Christians
are specifically denied the right of serving on the Board of Trustees. If Davidson, as an institution that places particular
emphasis on honor and integrity, is to live up to those lofty ideals it espouses, we cannot keep in place
a requirement that causes us to lie to students upon graduation.

Second, there is the issue of being true to our heritage. Davidson is unique among the country’s elite liberal arts
colleges for maintaining strong ties to a religious institution. Yet keeping the Christian requirement in place actually goes against the
Reformed tradition on which Davidson was founded. In fact, in their recommendation, the Trustees said that it was specifically because
of our Reformed heritage that they felt it was important to open the Board up to non-Christians. The Reformed Tradition
is founded on the belief that faith grows stronger when we are exposed to different ideas. We should seek to
understand our school’s heritage and we should want Davidson to be as true as possible to that heritage.

Finally, students should care about this decision because we should seek to be an institution that is open, in every
capacity, to everyone regardless of who they are or what they believe. Davidson students are often known to talk with
pride about our school. We are proud of its academic excellence, we are proud of its culture based on honor,
and we are proud of our fellow students who never fail to impress us. Yet the one thing we cannot
take pride in is the notion that only individuals who hold certain beliefs are good enough to govern the institution
we love so dearly. Now, it looks as if we will no longer have that caveat to hold back our
pride.

We give the members of the Ad Hoc Committee, as well as the entire Board of Trustees, our highest compliments
for both taking up this most important issue and for the way in which they have explained their reasons for
proposing these changes. If the entire Board follows the committee’s lead and adopts these changes at their next meeting, we
can finally say, without qualification, that we are proud Davidsonians.

Letters to the Editors

Rushdie’s offense is our gain

I want to make one thing explicit: I respect Richard Shayegan’s sense of outrage at Salman Rushdie being the Conarroe
lecturer this year. Yet I find Shayegan’s assertion that Davidson chose Rushdie “unthinkingly” untenable, as is his parallel between Rushdie’s
coming and the homecoming/Yom Kippur imbroglio. Can a glaring logistical error and a desire for intellectual provocation be compared as
like to like? Granted, Rushdie is as defamed a writer as an acclaimed one, but I feel such a fact
makes one welcome his presence all the more. Shayegan’s letteris titled: “Rushdie Offends My God.” True, what Rushdie has written,
represents and the idea of his coming offends the God of Shayegan’s understanding. I feel, though, that such cannot determine
whether Davidson should invite controversial speakers like Rushdie to lecture or not, because what has been offended isn’t Shayegan’s God
but his belief in that God. I distinguish between the two not because I don’t honor others’ beliefs, but because
I think that only a believer’s faith can be offended, not her or his God. I feel Davidson must choose
people like Rushdie who press the beliefs of others because they shake the foundations of those beliefs. Shayegan’s anger indicates
why Davidson needs intellectuals like Rushdie. Rushdie is dangerous because his ideas are. Our college cannot harbor us from ideas,
because if we graduate without having our beliefs pushed, how will we know, truly, whatever faith in which we believe?

John Fry

It’s ok to go on dates

Do you want a Revolution? Do you think she’s a nice girl? Would you like to get to know her
better? How about an old-fashioned, casual date? Wait a minute; can you do that at Davidson? The unspoken Davidson code
of Dating says that this is an impossible feat. No really, it’s quite simple. Guys, just ask her. Dinner at
the Union is fine. You think you should only date girls you know well? What better way than a casual
date? Showing a little interest in a girl is not one step closer to a marriage contract! Girls, this is
when it’s important to say YES! Any guy who’s thoughtful and brave enough to ask deserves affirmation. You don’t have
to be madly in love with him to say yes. If he’s a nice guy and willing to give you
some of his time, take it! Still worried about the “after the date- what to do now?” stigma? Just tell
your date you had a great time getting to know them better and would love to get together again. Best
of all, you can casually date more than one person at a time. Our parents have proven this! Still not
convinced? Casual dating boosts self-esteem, leads to more guy-girl friendships and improves everyone’s morale. You can’t go for face value.
Quality relationships aren’t built without some quality one-on-one time.

4th Watts from 2002

The new bell tolls well

In the recent lavender fall days I’ve heard a sound that reminds me of Davidson’s glory. On the crisp wind,
a time-telling toll touches my ear. It whisks me to class even as I futilely attempt to decipher its sonorous
code. I can feel the rigid musician slightly swaying in the chilly, clear, smoky wind of fall. The bell of
Chambers swings gaily as it eagerly resumes its place of honor atop this ivory edifice.

Roland F. Foss ‘05

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Managing Editor
Zach Williams

News Editors
Zach Kazior, Adam Martin & Ruchi Turakhia

Perspectives Editor
Nicholas Carlson

Arts & Living Editors
Andy Martin & Sarah Robinson

Yow! Editor
Brendan Parets

Sports Editors
Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrory

Photography Editor
Dorsett Clark

Business Manager
Nick Horton

Advertising Managers
Page Persons and Sarah Bogue

How am I supposed to work with that book down there?

INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION 5.2%
HIGH-TECH PRODUCTION 23.7%
PRODUCTIVITY 46%
HOUSEHOLD WEALTH 11.1%

UNLIKE MY OPPONENT, I’M DEFINITELY MAINSTREAM!
