12 _ Tue Davidsonian

DAVIS PICKS OF THE WEEK
Wildcat Game of the Week: Men’s Basketball vs. College of Charleston - Saturday at 7 p.m. in Belk Arena

SPORTS

The Patriots are a good team, even a great one. They just won the Super Bowl, and that speaks for
itself. But are the New England Patriots the first dynasty since the free agency era began, as many sensationalist members
of the media have been suggesting? Are they even a dynasty at all? No, and no.

If you’ve picked up any major sports page in the last few days, or watched ESPN, or surfed the web
for Super Bowl stories, you’ve most likely been subject to the latest aggravating trend in sports media: lauding the Patriots
as the most amazing thing to happen to football since the new free agency era began in 1993. You’ve heard
about how rare it is for teams to make, let alone win, two Super Bowls in three years during this
age of parity. The feat is unheard of, it’s unimaginable, it’s the most amazing phenomenon in recent sports history.

It happened five years ago. And it almost happened a year before that. And it happened two years before that.
It’s been happening, in fact, since free agency began in 1993, the start of this so-called era in which no
team can stay on top for more than a year. The Broncos won two in a row in 1997 and
1998. The Patriots didn’t even make the playoffs last year to defend their title after winning it in 2001. People
seem to have forgotten about that dynasty. The Denver victory, in fact, came over the Green Bay Packers as they
themselves were attempting to take two in a row. The Packers won in 1996, one year after the Cowboys pulled
off the same feat the Pats just accomplished (winning in 1993 and 1995, not to mention the pre-free agency title
in 1992).

Chicago’s bull has hit the fan. Bulls mascot “Da Bull” has been caught selling marijuana out of the trunk of
his car. Chester Brewer, who has been the man under the bull since 1996, has put his entertaining job in
jeopardy with his deviant side job. If he loses his job, he will most likely relocate to a place where
his services can be of better use. Isn’t Portland in the market for a new Trailblazer?

At least it’s not forced marriage: the Chinese National ping pong coach has banned his players from “falling in love”
until after the Olympics are over this coming summer. Head coach Cai Zhenhua made his announcement after removing three players
from the team who were reportedly being affected by their inter-team romances. Two of the removed players were ranked 10th
and 20th in the world. Zhenhua feels that because this is an Olympic year the players should make sacrifices for
the team.

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Columnist

Greatest Super Bowl ever? That’s what most of the so-called experts are saying, and with just cause. After all, it
was four seconds short of becoming the first Super Bowl in thirty-eight tries to go into overtime. Sure, the first
27 minutes were less exciting than a high school debate match, but the Patriots and Panthers combined for 24 points
in the three minutes before half time, igniting what ultimately proved to be an offensive slugfest between two defensive-oriented teams.

As for the halftime itself, well, there was more nudity than a good late-night feature on Cinemax. You had Justin
Timberlake “accidentally” tearing Janet Jackson’s star-studded breast out of her costume, and then there was the obligatory streaker, who was
decked by Matt Chatham of the Patriots before being hauled off like road kill.

Honestly, I thought the game was going to be a blowout. Sure, there were all those evil omens: Troy Brown
losing to Steve Smith in the B. Pe. -7

The Denver victory, in fact, came over the Green Bay Packers as they themselves were attempting to take two in
a row. The Packers won in 1996, one year after the Cowboys pulled off the same feat the Pats just
accomplished (winning in 1993 and 1995, not to mention the pre-free agency title in 1992). And as the prematurely heralded
Joe Montana of the future, Tom Brady, undoubtedly recalls, the Patriots won the first Super Bowl of this incredible run
over the St. Louis Rams, who were attempting to win their third in three years after losing in the Wild
Card round the year before. The poor Rams were just one Adam Vinatieri kick away from being their own dynasty.
Actually, by these new standards, it is now very easy to have two dynasties at the same time.

Sepp Blatter, president of FIFA, the world governing body of soccer, has released a statement that female soccer players should
wear tighter shorts to promote “a more female aesthetic.” Blatter stated that the change would increase the popularity of the
sport. So would serving free beer, but it’s just not going to happen.

What do R. Kelly, Julius Erving, and Paris Hilton have in common? One believes he could fly, one could fly,
and one flies to answer her cell phone. But all of them also share their sex life on publicly released
video. Erving, 53, the father of a 22-year-old girl and a six-year-old, was headed to court to settle the divorce
with his wife of 31 years, Turquoise, when some video footage...Surfaced. A sex tape of Dr. J that was uncovered
by the NY Post shows the fro-less Erving in a white undershirt, boxers, and metal-framed glasses. His co-star was a
“voluptuous, dark-haired young woman with cinnamon skin.” The background music, courtesy of the Honeydrippers’ “Sea of Love,” and some wine
accompanied the two as they chatted and moved on to “karma sutra-like positions” . . . Less time on the
court, and more time learning to read.

Wondering what Aaron Boone is up to during his off-season following his 11th-inning game-winning home run in Game Seven of
the ALCS? The Yankees third baseman is honing his round ball skills on the court, kind of. The only problem:
he might have torn his ACL while playing, which would keep him out for the entire 2004 campaign. In his
new contract, there is a line prohibiting him from certain activities, one of which is basketball. Boone must have skimmed
over that part...

Where is the line drawn for raising money? A booster club for a Catholic high school girls basketball team in
Pittsburgh sold an advertisement for their game program to a company that markets exotic dancers for bachelor parties. I have
to ask two questions: what was the booster club thinking in selling this ad? And what kind of business does
this company think they will get from parents of Catholic high school basketball players? Wait, maybe there’s a few Julius
Ervings in attendance.

We hadn’t trailed in a game for 478 minutes—you do the math. That streak was our confidence. And the highly
anticipated commercials did nothing to ease my pain because they all sucked. All of them, especially the Cialis one about
timing your erection, which only compounded my nausea. So, cell phone off and puke bucket by my side, I returned
to my throne and waited.

Not that Tom Brady needs any more praise, but the guy is the coolest cat on the planet. After a
little help from Carolina kicker Jon Kasay, Brady methodically drove downfield and connected with Mike Vrabel, a linebacker (what!?), to
regain the lead. Alas, Jake Delhomme stormed right back and tied the game with just over a minute left. Fortunately,
we’d been there before—too many times before—and my confidence returned knowing that, at worst, we’d take it to overtime. But,
like Lloyd Christmas in Dumb and Dumber, Vinatieri stepped up to a 41-yarder and totally redeemed himself! Ball game. All
of New England erupted like it was on Cialis.

Is this a dynasty? Maybe, that’s not for me to decide. All I have to say now is, Go Red
Sox.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2004

Time in the NFL. If Tampa Bay rebounds and wins it all next year, they will be a dynasty. That
might be more likely than the prospect of the Patriots winning it next year to make it two straight, a
milestone their dynasty has not yet reached. While the Patriots offense is young and poised for years of success, their
defense is not. The defense that gave up the fewest points per game in the league this year started four
players with ten or more seasons of experience. Only two had less than seven. While this hardly means that the
defense will fall apart next year—chances are it will remain good—the numbers suggest that most of these players won’t be
around long enough to make the run of a true dynasty, a 1980s 49ers type of dynasty.

Unfortunately for the Pats, a great pressure quarterback is not enough to maintain or even establish a dynasty, as Brett
Favre has discovered. It’s enough to keep a team competitive and in the playoffs, like the Packers have been since
their dynasty hopes fell through in 1997 (and, technically, in 1998). That seems to be the fate of Brady and
his Patriots: a very competitive team for a good amount of time. It’s more than most teams can even hope
for. It’s also a far cry from a dynasty. The new Joe Montana doesn’t even have a Jerry Rice.

That video game, the winner of which has gone on to win the last eight Super Bowls; the Panthers looking
eerily like the 2001 Patriots; and my roommate just freaking out all week, convincing me we had absolutely no chance.
But, I don’t believe in superstition, and I thought Carolina was insanely overmatched. Unfortunately, as has become common lately, I
played the fool. After former superhero Adam Vinatieri pooched two easy field goals, it seemed all the football gods were
aligned against us and those Panthers might win this one, an event that would have obviously required me to transfer.

Patriots’ fans worldwide breathed a collective sigh of relief, though, when we finally scored a few points and seemed ready
to take a one-touchdown lead into halftime. But then, employing what I believe is the second-worst play in football behind
the quick lateral pass to the wideout (you all know the one), we squib the kickoff and virtually hand the
Panthers three points. Ya-da-ya-da-ya-da . . . the Panthers take the lead. This is when nausea set in and all
the non-Patriots fans started calling my cell phone.
