The Davidson College
“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2004
First Class | U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC
VOLUME 96, NUMBER 2

Pass/fail deadline extended three weeks
By Margaret Brooks
Staff Writer

The faculty recently extended the pass/fail deadline by three weeks, effective this semester. This change allows students to wait until the Friday of the ninth week of the semester, as opposed to the previous six-week mark, to submit requests to take a credit-bearing course for a pass or fail rather than a grade. For the 2004-2005 academic year, those dates fall on October 22 and March 18.

The SGA made it an initiative to push back the pass/fail deadline primarily as a response to numerous student complaints about not having received any grades by the original deadline. SGA President Katherine Hubbard ‘05 said, “We thought giving the three-week extension would give students more of a chance to get a feel for how they are doing in the class.”

However, the pass/fail option was “never intended when it was first created as an insurance policy, but as an encouragement to students to venture into unfamiliar territory,” according to Registrar Hansford Epes. “Most students use it now for courses within the core requirement that they do not want to take or are not a part of their major requirement. It gives them the freedom to concentrate on other classes that are of more interest.”

Police photography causing some concern
Walker says photos from parties only used to document ‘gross and negligent violations’
By Liz Barry
Staff Writer

The practice of police taking photographs at Martin Court parties has sparked confusion and concern among many students. To address the issue, several PCC presidents met with Chief of Police Fountain Walker last Thursday to discuss the purpose and necessity of the photographs.

Walker said the photographs mainly serve as a means for documenting crowd situations in which “gross and negligent violations” of Martin Court policy, such as the consumption of alcoholic beverages in stairwells and open courtyards, are present. He said the police do not use them to single out students. “Taking pictures enables me to show my bosses the scene we’re dealing with,” Walker said.

Casey Cox ’05, President of Rusk Eating House, said that many students were concerned with the practice because they believed the police were using the pictures taken at a recent Martin Court party to issue alcohol citations to underage students. “The problem was that people were not informed with why the police were taking pictures,” Cox said. “If more students understood why exactly they are used, I feel they would be less concerned.”

Students discuss Pre-O effects
Other schools opening minority programs to all students
By Adam Martin, Aubry Bracco & Hannah Rogers-Ganter
News Editor & Staff Writers

Davidson’s programs for minority students, including Students Together Reaching for Individual Development in Education Program (STRIDE), and specifically its Pre-Orientation component (Pre-O), have recently generated more public discussion among students.Davidson students, faculty, and administrators. Incoming ethnic minority students are invited to participate in the Pre-O retreat, which takes place for four days before the larger Freshman Orientation. Several first-year students reported having lengthy discussions about Pre-O in their book discussion groups during regular Freshman Orientation.

Students from many different backgrounds feel the separation of minority students fosters segregation on campus, having an overall negative effect on student life. Others of various backgrounds believe the impact overall is positive in that it helps achieve Davidson’s goal of creating a diverse student body. “I don’t think we find people segregating more because of this program,” said President Bobby Vagt. Vagt added that “before this program, retention and graduation rates for minorities were less than average. Currently, graduation and retention rates are the same or higher than average.”

According to Assistant Dean of Students Ernest Jeffries, Pre-O “works on building that family kind of environment that students can draw on when things get tough.” Shannon Bradshaw ’07 and two first years discuss minority issues during Pre-Orientation. Janell Crayton ’06, a black student on the basketball team, said she came to Davidson already used to living in an environment where she was a minority. Crayton expressed a need to ease minority students into thinking about their ethnicity in the context of Davidson. “Some minorities coming in are going to have extraordinary culture shock,” she said. Crayton participated in STRIDE during her freshman year. “I didn’t need it, but I loved it,” Crayton said. “My old connections are good, and they don’t limit me.”

Becky Nolin ’06, a white student from California, has a number of friends who participated in the program. “Practically, it’s excellent, it’s kept people here, it makes students happy. But principally, it concerns me some... I dislike arguments in support of there being a group assigned by race,” she said. “Most students are glad minorities are here but don’t understand what [STRIDE] really does,” said Nolin.

STRIDE has evolved structurally over the course of its charter and currently has five components. After Pre-O, STRIDE continues throughout the year with the Peer Mentor Program, Monthly Enrichment Series, Mid-Year “Check Up,” and End of the Year Recognition, which will serve as a graduation from the program.

Hanako Kawabata ’06 grew up in Japan as a minority. She participated in STRIDE and was a mentor her sophomore year. Kawabata said she often has conflicting feelings about the program, noting that the minority population at Davidson is not exclusive to race. Kawabata stressed the importance of building a “bigger bridge of minorities as opposed to [dividing into] specific groups.” “You really have a minority experience if you don’t fit the majority [at Davidson],” she said.

McLean Quinn ’05 (right), the former president of the Young Democrats, and Joseph Adams ’06 (far right), president of the College Republicans, kicked off the school year with meetings last Tuesday night. Both organizations saw increased interest and membership this year. See story, page 4.

Photos by Emily Kota

SEE PAGE 3
Goodwill: both affordable and fashionable
A&L, PAGE 7
PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 11
Protestors exceeding their limits?
The WNBA: an eyewitness report
SPORTS, PAGE 12