4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Political organizations gear up for election season

By Jackie McKeon
Staff Writer

Both the Young Democrats and College Republicans saw increased membership and interest during their first meetings last Tuesday as they began preparing for the 2004 election year.

Due to lack of space in the original meeting room, the Young Democrats were forced to move to the 900 Room of the Union.

“More than 115 people were at the meeting,” said last year’s Young Democrats President, McLean Quinn ‘05.

About 60 people attended the College Republicans meeting.

“Our membership has increased 35 percent since last week,” said College Republicans President Joseph Adams ’06.

Both organizations are providing a variety of outlets for political activism this fall.

In addition to watching the Presidential and Vice Presidential debates, the Young Democrats and College Republicans will facilitate a series of campus-wide debates.

These debates are seen as a way to “encourage dialogue,” said Trey Skinner ’07, secretary of the College Republicans.

One debate will happen on the balconies of Philanthropic (Phi) Hall and Eumenean (Eu) Hall, bringing back a Davidson political debating tradition dating back to 1873.

Another debate, sponsored by Dean Rusk, will occur in late October and will feature the topic of foreign policy.

“Our purpose is to represent the Republican Party and its principles. Bush has offered clear and consistent leadership to this country in times of uncertainty.”
--Joseph Adams ’06, College Republicans president

Another primary objective of both organizations is to promote voter registration on campus.

“We hope to ensure that as many Davidson students get out to vote as possible through persistent voter registration drives,” said Quinn.

“There are a lot of undecided voters on this campus. I would say I have no less than five people come by my room every day to talk about the elections,” said Adams.

In addition to voter registration drives, College Republicans plan to lead a nonpartisan question and answer session for all interested students.

They hope that this would give students the opportunity to learn more about their candidates in the upcoming Presidential and Senatorial elections.

The Young Democrats will be working closely with the new organization, Davidson Students for Kerry-Edwards, founded by Andrew Yancy ’05.

“We are simply encouraging people to support two men, John Kerry and John Edwards, and make an effort over the next two months to elect them President and Vice President of the United States,” said Yancy.

Students for Kerry/Edwards and other groups on campus are working to provide transportation to the polls on November 2.

The Young Democrats will also direct their efforts off-campus. Interested members will be volunteering for Democratic campaigns in Charlotte this fall.

Will Kincheloe, a campaign representative for U.S. senatorial candidate Erskine Bowles, was present at the Young Democrats meeting. He praised the students that have already contributed to Democratic campaigns, and urged others to become involved.

A new group of Young Democrats leaders were elected at the meeting. Taylor Ansley ’07 and Chris Burks ’07 will serve as co-presidents, among many other newly-elected student leaders.

The College Republicans elected their officials last spring.

Both organizations seemed ready for a lively campaign on campus.

“Our purpose on campus is not to counteract the Young Democrats. Our purpose is to represent the Republican Party and its principles. Bush has offered clear and consistent leadership to this country in times of uncertainty,” said Adams.

Quinn agreed that the Young Democrats’ purpose was not to work against the Republicans.

“President Bush and the GOP have steered this country in a new and radical direction that violently diverges from the ideology of most Americans. The Davidson College Young Democrats are an organization for students and staff who want to get the country back on the right track,” Quinn said.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2004

CAMERON SCHOOL OF BUSINESS

MSA

Master of Science in Accountancy
Have you thought about a career in public accounting, corporate accounting, or management consulting?
Do you want to be a CPA?

All undergraduate majors welcome. Our 10-month, full-time MSA program begins in August. We offer an excellent teaching faculty, smaller classes, lower tuition, and excellent financial assistance opportunities. Cameron School of Business is accredited by AACSB.

Applications are due April 1; early applications are encouraged.

All major accounting firms recruit at UNCW. For information, come to the Davidson College September Career Fair or contact Kathy Erickson at 910-962-3903 or ericksonk@uncw.edu.

An EEO/AA institution

VEGGIE MELT - VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD
GRILLED CHEESE - SOUP

FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE
HOMEMADE ORANGEADE, LEMONADE AND LIMEADE

"Bet you didn't think of us for vegetarian fare!
Eat-in or Take-out
104 S MAIN ST. Davidson, NC
896-7743

Sat-Thur 8-8 Fri 8-9