THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Home meet vs. Blue Devils results in tough losses for men and women swimmers
‘Cats look to place well in final home meet Saturday

COURTESY OF SPORTS INFORMATION
January 17, 2004

The Davidson College swimmers welcomed their second ACC school in the past two weeks today as the Duke University Blue
Devils visited the Wildcats’ Cannon Pool. Duke’s women return home with a 141-100 victory and the Blue Devil men were
victorious 151-80.

Senior Sara Laws recorded the women’s only first-place swim of the day by swimming a season-best 2:07.94 in the 200-yard
backstroke. Sophomore Trisha Blackwell and senior Leslie Cook followed Laws in third and fourth, respectively.

“We've had a great last three weeks of work, coming off of winter training. The kids are starting to find
ways to go fast, and this is the time of year when you really start to pick up time,” commented
head coach Tim Kelly.

Junior Judit Otvos led the women divers. She was first in the one-meter dive and finished second in the three-meter
dive. “Everybody did a real nice job today,” added Kelly. “Our enthusiasm picked up as the meet went on.”

On the men’s side, sophomore Brad Poole was the lone victor. Poole won the 100-yard freestyle event by two-hundredths of
a second. Other top-three finishers for the men included senior captains Michael Mazza in the 200-yard butterfly and Charlie Hunter
who was runner-up in the 200 backstroke. The men closed the meet on a high note by winning the 400-yard
freestyle relay. Poole, Hunter, senior Robert Koch, and junior Steve Trefzger combined for the relay win.

Freshman Eli Tolson collected two runner-up performances in the 1000 and 500-yard freestyle events. Senior Vanessa Witt had a solid
meet for the women as well. Witt came in second in the 200-yard free and third in the 200 butterfly,
Davidson’s top finisher in those events. Sophomore Megan Hollar swam a season-best 2:23.57 in the 200-yard breaststroke to finish second
and added a third-place swim in the 50-yard freestyle.

“We really started to see how good we can be when we started collecting some wins during the back-half of
the meet,” offered Kelly.

The Davidson swimmers return to the Cannon Pool next weekend. The ‘Cats host UNC Wilmington and CAA rivals William &
Mary and Old Dominion for a two-day meet beginning on Jan. 23 at 6 p.m. and continuing the next day
at noon.

Coach McKillop goes to the hoop against Ian Johnson ’06 in practice
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2004

photo by Peter Roady

McKillop mentioned as candidate for St. John’s job
By WALKER Salk
Senior Staff Writer

The Davidson basketball community got quite a scare in recent weeks when various sources began listing men’s head coach Bob
McKillop as a possibility for job openings at St. John’s and Fordham Universities in New York. The good news for
Davidson fans, though, is that since his name...showed up on the national spotlight, no recent developments have shown any real
cause for concern. In fact, while ESPN.com reporter Andy Katz takes delight in tossing McKillop’s name around, his main motivation
seems to come from McKillop’s being a New York native, not because any school has directly expressed interest. Neither school
has made public any “wish list,” so, for the time being, any reports of the coach bolting Davidson seem to
be speculative at best. In addition, Athletic Director Jim Murphy denied being contacted by any school in regards to Coach
McKillop. He said via email that he “would never consider entertaining any such discussions until the end of the basketball
season.”

Sophomore Ian Johnson didn’t feel like there was any concern, either. “Coach McKillop’s name gets thrown around a lot when
coaching positions open up. Whenever there’s an opening, the media will throw out many names of possible candidates,” said the
6’9” forward from Ruckersville, VA. “Since Coach is from New York, his name is especially prominent with St. John’s, but
this has happened before, and it will happen again,” Johnson concluded. Asked if the circumstances were affecting team chemistry at
all, Johnson did not seem too concerned, saying, “It’s not a big deal. The team isn’t worried at all.”

As a side note, with his son Matt McKillop as one of the sophomore stars, there could be a bit
more family incentive than usual for McKillop to stick around. McKillop, in the middle of his 15th year at Davidson,
is the all-time leader in wins as a Davidson coach and has guided the team to two trips each in
the NCAA and NIT tournaments. His overall record of 228-190 equates to a .545 winning percentage.

Track and Field teams start Indoor season on the right foot
By JACKSON HERLONG
Staff Writer

The Davidson Track and Field teams kicked off their indoor season with a good performance at the Tar Heel Fast
Times in Chapel Hill, NC, punctuated by two runners earning spots in Davidson’s top-ten performers in their respective events. Both
the men’s and the women’s teams performed well, with the highest finish being Jonathan Baker ’06 at second place in
the 5,000 meter with a time of 15:42.49, high enough to place him among the school’s top-ten performers at that
distance. Davidson also picked up ninth and tenth place in the same event, by Dave Bunge ’04 and John Doehring
’07, respectively. Douglas Noreen ’07 ran the 800 in 2:01.00, earning him his own spot among Davidson’s top-ten performers in
that event. Nick Lehman ’05 finished 8th in the mile with a time of 4:29.03. The highest placing recorded by
the women’s team was sophomore Allie Martin’s 17th-place finish in the mile.

According to Noreen, “The meet was a good eye-opener as to what we can do as a team.” Commenting on
the short length of the girls’ roster, he added, “The women’s team is in an unfortunate situation with only a
small number of distance runners, but those that they have are out there every day running hard and running well.”

Noreen, whose goal for the indoor season is to break the school record in the 800, will have three more
opportunities before the indoor season draws to a close.
