By Witson McCrory, Senior Staff Writer

When Logan Kosmalski '05 was whistled for his second personal foul less than seven minutes into last Wednesday’s match-up against the Wofford Terriers, it appeared that Davidson would have to struggle for its 12th straight home win. While post players Ian Johnson ’06 and Conor Grace ’05 have provided valuable minutes for the Wildcats this season, Kosmalski has been the anchor of the developing inside presence for the ’Cats, scoring in double figures in all but one Southern Conference game and pulling down nearly seven rebounds a contest. As head coach Bob McKillop stated following the game, “Earlier in the year, when Logan would go down with foul trouble, we couldn’t sustain our team performance and [the foul trouble] would affect Logan’s play as well.”

Initially, the Wildcats again struggled to recover from the loss of Kosmalski, as an 18-8 lead midway through the half was reduced to a 29-29 tie at the break as the starting center watched from the bench. For the half, the Wildcats shot a meager 36 percent from the field, while converting only two of five chances at the free-throw line. In the second frame, the ’Cats’ offense began to find its rhythm, as Davidson netted nearly 45 percent of its shots in the frame. Wofford scored the first bucket of the second half to take a 31-29 lead, but Davidson outscored the Terriers 22-6 over the next ten minutes to take a 14-point lead with only ten minutes to play. Wofford hit back-to-back threes to reduce the ’Cats’ 51-37 lead to eight, but that was as close as the Terriers would get the rest of the way in Davidson’s 73-63 victory.

For the game, Brendan Winters ’06 led the Wildcats in scoring for the fifth straight game with 19 points, extending his streak of double-figure scoring to 24 games. Johnson was the only other Wildcat in double figures with 12 points, but seven different players scored at least six in the contest, displaying Davidson’s offensive versatility. “That’s always been a trademark of the Davidson program,” noted McKillop, “in that there’s no one player, like Kevin Martin of Western Carolina, who has dominated our numbers to a significant degree. A guy like Brendan Winters has been extremely consistent for us, but the scoring shows how balanced and unselfish we are.”

Ashley Halisted ’04 is the eighth women’s player in Davidson history to tally 1,000 points.

Brian Akin ‘04 Baseball
Hometown: Louisville, KY
Major: Mathematics and Economics

The ’Cats opened the season this past weekend, going 2-1 against Georgetown. In the final game, Akin was almost unhittable, pitching 8.0 innings without giving up an earned run while also recording 11 strikeouts. In fact, only six Hoyas even reached base, with only one making it to scoring position. Due to his great game, Akin earned the first SoCon Pitcher of the Week honors of the year.

Photo by Peter Roady

McKillop now directs his team to Charleston. Davidson just 1/2 game behind in Southern Division to start final week.

Tuesday, February 24
Davidson 64, Appalachian State 63

It took the entire 40 minutes of play, but Davidson finally pulled out the 64-63 victory as time expired last night against Appalachian State, keeping alive the Wildcats’ hopes of earning a first-round bye in next week’s Southern Conference Tournament. Davidson led the Mountaineers 32-25 at halftime, but found itself down 61-54 with just over two minutes to play in the back-and-forth second half. From there, the Wildcats rattled off eight straight points to take a 62-61 lead, but Appalachian State responded with a bucket with 4.8 seconds to play to reclaim the lead.one-point advantage. See Basketball, page 14

The DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, February 25, 2004

This side of ETSU, Wet Manly because our team cut down on turnovers and drastically improved their rebounding. Logan Kosmalski has emerged as an inside force because he’s been able to stay out of the foul trouble that plagued him early in the season. Brendan Winters has played at an elite level all year, but he’s become an even more potent scorer over the last month, averaging better than 20 points per game. He’s the Wildcats’ undisputed MVP, and might even get some votes for SoCon Player of the Year. Assuming opposing defenses focus on containing Kosmalski and Winters, the key for the Wildcats might be finding a third scoring option—a surprise star, if you will. Prime candidates include Matt McKillop or Ian Johnson off the bench.

3. Chattanooga: This team lost to ETSU in the championship game last year and would like another shot at its Tennessee rival. Coach Jeff Lebo is a rising star, and aptly named forward Ashley Champion (18.5 ppg) is the SoCon’s 2nd leading scorer.

4. College of Charleston: For the third straight year, the Cougars enter postseason play in their home city. Despite that advantage, they haven’t reached the finals.

Struggling at the wrong time. See Preview, page 14

With win over Wofford, Cats secure opening round bye in SoCon tourney
By Erin DELK
Senior Staff Writer

The women’s basketball team crushed the 0-25 Wofford Terriers for the fifth consecutive time Saturday afternoon, 65-51, securing them a top-five spot and a bye in the first round of the upcoming Southern Conference Tournament. The game was important for the ’Cats on a more personal level as well, as co-captain Ashley Hallsted ’04 became only the eighth women’s basketball player to score 1,000 points in her career.

Wofford took the early lead against the Wildcats, but a jumper by Meghan Bryant ’04 midway through the first half gave Davidson the lead for good. The ’Cats built the lead to 11, 37-26, going into halftime, and continued to pull away in the opening minutes of the second half with layups by Janell Crayton ’06 and Emily Callahan ’05. Hallsted’s 1,000th point came several minutes later on a breakaway layup.

“Wofford’s record really does not reflect the kind of team they are,” noted fellow captain Courtney Laird ’04. Robyn Flewelling ’04 agreed: “They are a dangerous team, but we buckled down and put forth a solid effort.”

In their last regular season game, the Wildcats will face Furman in Greenville on Thursday at 7 p.m. As head coach Annette Watts said, “This final game is very important because with two games left for most conference opponents the second through eighth seeds are left up in the air. If we win, we have a chance of taking the third, possibly even the second, seed going into the tournament.”

Regardless of their placement in the tournament, the ’Cats are guaranteed a breather on the first day of tournament play, and have the best chance in four years to win the championship. “We are entering the third part of our season: the first being the non-conference games, the second the conference games, and the third the tournament,” said Shade ’04.

Midway through last Wednesday’s 73-63 win over Wofford, a Terrier player stole the ball and proceeded to go up for a dunk, which he promptly missed. Always wanting to be the helpful Davidson student, Nick Booker ’05 seized the opportunity to tutor the Terrier player on the correct form. In the second half, Booker stole the ball and flushed it home with a beautiful two-handed jam. Class dismissed.