12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

For your scores this week...

Wildcat game of the week:
Men's Soccer
November 12-14, Mt Pleasant, S.C.
First round win into a match on Friday evening with the nation’s No. 2 ranked team.

Outside the Den: College Football
#5 Georgia at #3 Auburn
Saturday, Nov. 13 at 3:30 CBS
Auburn is undefeated. Georgia’s only loss this year came against Tennessee. Number three and number five in the country—it doesn’t
get much better. This SEC battle will determine the fate of both teams since a handful of worthy programs deserve
to play in a BCS bowl game.

SPORTS
By Wilson McCrory
Sports Editor

On Tuesday, Maurice Clarett, the former standout tailback at Ohio State during their 2003 National Championship run, released multiple allegations
of abuse in the Ohio State football program ranging from cash payments to academic fraud to even bogus jobs arranged
for Buckeye players. Clarett, you may remember, led the Ohio State offense as a true freshman in their stunning undefeated
season in 2002-03, culminating in an overtime victory over Ken Dorsey and the Miami Hurricanes in the Fiesta Bowl. The
tailback hasn’t set foot on a game field since the Fiesta Bowl, however, because he was declared ineligible by the
NCAA before the 2003-04 season after he was found to have received money from a family friend and then lying
about it to both NCAA and Ohio State investigators. As a result, the disgruntled running back filed for the NFL
Draft this past year, and while initially granted admission into the draft despite being underage, he was eventually denied eligibility
since he had been out of high school for less than the requisite three years.

Not another word had been heard from Clarett until this week, when he dropped a bombshell on the Buckeye program
and Coach Jim Tressel, claiming the head coach himself played a direct role in several of his supposed allegations. Upon
reading Clarett’s accusations, much of what he says sounds entirely plausible and in fact quite likely at a football factory
like Ohio State. In this day of college athletics, it is almost more of a surprise when a program is
regarded as clean, as schools are routinely investigated and often convicted of violations on various levels. I imagine there is
a good deal of truth to what Clarett says; he and other former Buckeye players have already provided detailed accounts
of what happened behind the scenes in Columbus, Ohio for Buckeye players. In particular, it seems that Ohio State’s academic
requirements for football players are more than lax, offering classes that virtually guarantee good grades such as Power Volleyball and
Officiating Basketball. Ohio State even offers 10 course credits for “Football” as long as a player suits up on Saturdays
each fall.

But at the same time, something doesn’t seem quite right about at least some of Clarett’s allegations. First, and most
importantly, the source itself is hardly reliable. Clarett lied 17 times during an NCAA investigation regarding his eligibility last season
that eventually led to his suspension from the team. Furthermore, he also admitted to grossly inflating the value of items
he reported stolen from a car he was driving, and was eventually convicted of a misdemeanor and fined $100 for
his actions. According to OSU AD Andy Geiger, “Clarett vowed that he’d do something to try to get us, and
this may be what it is.” While this source is also not the most reliable in the current situation, Clarett,
who is hoping to be taken in the 2005 NFL Draft after working with a personal trainer the past two
years, is undoubtedly trying to clear his name for NFL teams that have the perception he is an immature, dishonest
player. He even admits, “I got to clear myself up now, because it’s affecting the minds of the GM’s.”

So while there may be some truth to his allegations, it seems like he has more than enough motive to
try and slander the Buckeye program that he believes “blackballed” him following his suspension from the team. It is all
too convenient that his accusations do not leave a paper trail. There is corroboration for some of Clarett’s claims, including
even the fabrication of jobs and free cars, gifts and cash. But that support comes from players like former linebacker
Marco Cooper, who was kicked off of the team after twice being arrested for drug possession while at Ohio State.
Others, like former cornerback Richard McNutt and receiver Chris Vance, vehemently deny receiving improper benefits. When the details finally come
to fruition regarding this story, I am sure that some of what Clarett has said will be shown true. There
is too much in his story to completely fabricate, and it can only hurt his draft status with NFL teams
if everything he says is shown false. But don’t jump to Clarett’s side too quickly, as he has not yet
provenhimself worthy of anyone’s trust.

Football falls to Austin Peay in double OT
By STEPHEN J. HALLIDAY
Senior Staff Writer

John Leverett’s ’05 179-yard effort and a good game from the defense were spoiled this week as Davidson fell to
PFL foe Austin Peay 20-17 in double overtime. With the loss, the ’Cats fell to 2-6 overall and 1-2 in
conference play.

Austin Peay scored first in the contest, launching a long touchdown drive midway through the first quarter following a missed
54-yard field goal by the Wildcats. The ’Cats responded, however, capitalizing on good field position to complete a 50-yard drive
that ended with a touchdown run by Leverett. This touchdown ended a scoring drought of nearly eight quarters for Davidson
and made the score 7-7 entering halftime.

Things looked promising for Davidson entering the second half after Yeatts Anderson ’06 intercepted a pass on the Governors’ opening
drive. On the ensuing possession, however, quarterback Damion White ’05 threw an interception which was returned for a touchdown by
Austin Peay. White was also injured on the play and did not return in the afternoon.

Trailing 14-7 entering the fourth quarter, the ’Cats quickly tied the game on a 32-yard run by Leverett. The score
was Leverett’s 34th career rushing touchdown, breaking the school record held by Ray Sinclair ’82. Both offenses stalled for the
remainder of the quarter, and the game entered overtime tied 14-14.

Both teams traded field goals in the first overtime period, and Davidson started with possession in the second overtime. After
losing yardage following a sack on third down, however, Brad Smith’s ’07 47-yard attempt was blocked. The Governors quickly took
advantage of the big play, kicking a 33-yard field goal to seal the win.

The ’Cats lost despite out-gaining the Governors 370 to 226 and winning the turnover battle. Inconsistency in the passing game
stifled the team’s scoring chances, however, as reflected in the ’Cats’ 5 for 19 rate on third down conversions. One
of the bright spots from this week was the play of Leverett, whose 179 yards leave him just four yards
shy of the all-time rushing record held by Sinclair. The defense also had a very good game, holding the Governors
to one score in regulation and preventing them from controlling the clock, something the defense has struggled with throughout the
season.

Next week the ’Cats play their final game of the season against Georgetown, 2-7, at home at Richardson Stadium. It
is Senior Day for Davidson, and Leverett needs only four yards to eclipse the school’s all-time rushing record, which has
stood for 23 years. Team leaders such as White, Robinson, Saunders, Dete, and tackle Blair Reynolds ’05 will all be
playing their final games as Davidson Wildcats.

from Men’s Soccer, page 16

Georgia Southern Eagles. The home side dominated the match and Wilkie opportunistically knocked home an Eagle defensive mishap for the
game’s only score. Wilkie’s goal gave him a team-high 13 points and the sophomore’s stellar play earned him SoCon player
of the week honors.

The Rematch: SoCon Quarterfinals

Georgia Southern, because of the Sunday loss, had to return north just two days later for the opening round of
the SoCon Tournament. The 4/5 match-up proved a little too exciting for the host Wildcats, as Davidson narrowly avoided a
late-game collapse to squeak out a 4-3 victory.

The first half was all ’Cats, as they outshot the overmatched Eagles 8-1. Davidson was unable to gain the lead,
however, and the game remained scoreless after the first 45-minute session.

The change in half meant a change in game, as Davidson scored three quick goals and seemed to be in
complete control of the game. The three goals, scored by Kittinger, Wilkie, and Baltz, may have caused a lack in
concentration by the home side, however, and the lapse proved sufficient for the Eagles to jump back into the contest.
Georgia Southern scored two goals in rapid fashion late in the half and narrowed the margin to 3-2. Hoak thwarted
all hopes for an Eagle rally, however, when he struck a free kick past the stunned goalkeeper for a 4-2
lead. Georgia Southern scored one more goal with less than ten seconds to play, but the crazy game ended well
as Davidson won 4-3, advancing to the semifinals of the Southern Conference Tournament.

“It was a really fun game,” Will Carroll ’06 said of the Tuesday victory. “We should work on our game
management—it’s been an issue all season. It will be crucial against UNCG on Friday. But, it was great to get
the win.”

Davidson’s last-ditch effort to fulfill preseason hopes of making a second straight NCAA Tournament will have to go through the
nation’s No. 2 ranked team, UNC Greensboro, on Friday afternoon down in Charleston.
