THE DAVIDSONIAN

Akers Hall: ‘Sophomore apartments + hangover = no class.’

By Jerry McKINNEY
Special Contributor

The time of year has inevitably rolled around when you can only help but notice the annoying habits of your
roommate. It’s the little things like the way that their dirty clothes have been scattered on the floor for weeks
and now are cultivating a rare but pungent fungus. Maybe it’s the way they sit smiling, taunting you with Playstation
games when you get back from hours of studying. Or it could be the way they draw crazy pictures on
the wall while muttering fragmented German to themselves. Perhaps it’s the way that their alarm clock goes off at the
crack of dawn, and then they decide that they don’t even want to get up. Maybe these sound familiar; maybe
you have your own issues of distaste. Regardless of what they are, they are there. And surely your roommate feels
the same way. You don’t discuss these issues. Who has time for a confrontation when finals are on the horizon?

But mid-spring semester alights other problems - such as where and with whom you are going to live next year.
It’s a tricky situation but it’s one that you have to face. You don’t want to live with your current
roommate, and they obviously don’t want to live with you. But it is an awkward situation, because you don’t quite
have the gall to outright admit the truth to them. You avoid the conversation. Eventually, you discover the truth; you
learn from a friend of a friend that your current roommate plans to live in the Senior Apartments with other
friends. You hope that your roommate has heard of your plans to get a double with an old friend from
your freshman hall. You hope that you don’t actually have to talk to your roommate about it. And yes, you
hope that they’ll finally do the dishes.

We’ve skipped over a few important issues. The first: Deciding who you want to live with next year. When you
ask someone what they look for in a roommate, you always hear: “I want someone who is clean.” Isn’t that
a bit obvious? Who truly relishes the stink of rotting food or stale gym shorts? Here are a few other
things to think about when considering a roommate: Are they messy? Do they stay up too late? Do they get
up too early? Do they own enough DVDs? Do they have a boyfriend or girlfriend who will eventually take over
your room? Is this future roommate cool? Do they chew with their mouths open? These are all equally important. Choose
wisely. Two semesters can seem unending.

Now here’s the other troublesome issue: Housing lottery. RLO claims that lottery is completely random, but we all know deep
down that the situation is secretly controlled by Dean Marsicano and her droogs at RLO. Once you get your lottery
number it’s even easier for you to imagine that Dean Marsicano not only knows you personally, but does not like
you, at all. Honestly, who is really satisfied with their lottery number? And if you have a good number, your
future roommate(s) probably has something in the low 8,000s. Either way, you’ve got your number and you know who you
want to live with. Now you must pick a room. Normally, the three most important aspects to consider are location,
location, and location. In considering this, as my roommate pointed out (right before turning up his favorite bluegrass song), “Everything
is within a close walking distance on this campus.” This of course, excludes sophomore apartments down near Mooresville. One downhill
dweller lives by a simple math equation: hangover + sophomore apartments = no class. But excluding the sophomore apartments, location
is not really a quandary at Davidson.

And luckily, life is beautiful. If you want to live in the Martin Court F apartments, then of course you
make friends in groups of five. If you want a senior apartment you have three friends and no more or
less. Things are perfect; no one would ever have to draw straws. And of course your friends always want to
live in the same place as you. No one would ever disagree between Tomlinson and Sentelle. You have made it
to the fourth quarter in the housing game: getting a room. There is the possibility of living off-campus, but we
have to get permission for that. Are we not old enough now to decide where we want to live? It
seems strange that we have to ask, and again it seems easy to imagine Dean Marsicano is not your biggest
fan. You don’t get off-campus permission, and...You go to your respective lottery night and time, which is just a blast.
Here is the way you should address the situation. Let’s say you have a list of five hopeful rooms in
order of desire. Do not expect to get any lower than at least the third room. Expect that, and you
will be a happy person. Once you have a room, the most important thing to do is to make the
most of that room. If you live right above a dumpster it may stink a little bit, but at least
you can throw your trash right out the window. If you live right by the stairs, you may get a
little noise on the weekends, but at least you are closer to class. Yes. Practice optimism. Finding the good in
your room will make life much easier, especially when you’ve got a roommate who plays their favorite Cher song repeatedly.
Game over. You’ve got a room.

Apartment F: a test of friendship.

Arts & LIVING
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 2004

Finally, he is a dog: a day in the life of Fred
By Cannon HopcGE
Arts and Living Editor

There’s a game that Fred likes to play while I’m reading or really trying to concentrate. This game situates Fred’s
teeny-tiny ball in a space that requires my own prostration and submission to a puppy that certainly knows how to
direct a room’s attention. At first, I try to ignore him—I try to pretend that he isn’t whining or digging
at the carpet; but then he howls and looks at me as though this teeny-tiny ball is the only source
of entertainment. I’ll scan the room for his many other toys—bones, ropes, plush animals—then I’ll tell Fred to hush! or
I’ll throw another toy in some odd direction, but Fred’s attention is rapt upon that teeny-tiny ball stuck between the
wall and bookshelf. Finally, I succumb to his pleading and use ridiculous modes of toy-retrieval. For just a moment I
convince myself that Fred will prance off to his bed and chew on his ball. He doesn’t. Instead, he prefers
wedging the ball in the exact same space and digging and whining until I throw down my book and succumb
to his pathetic manipulation.

He’s just a dog. That’s what I tell people. Fred is quite confident of his genetics and scoffs at dogs
smaller than he is. Now that he weighs a whopping five pounds, Fred’s bravery and poise have soared. It’s exciting
to watch him mature. Spring has arrived and promises new niches for Fred to investigate. There’s my balcony where he
somehow creeps onto the outer side and barks at the neighborhood dogs; and there’s the neighborhood itself that has become
less intimidating and more grand. Fred chases groggy bumble-bees and sniffs towering daffodils and tulips. The environment constantly presents him
with new mysteries and adventures. Sometimes, in a flourish, he’ll chase the breezing dogwood petals or embark upon a truly
delicious puddle, and I’m forced to solicit his attention with the promise of yet another dog biscuit. His excitability reflects
the changing weather and requires more attention. I try, I truly do; but it’s difficult for a busy working girl
to write a paper and play catch or tug-of-war or pretend-you-want-the-bone-but-know-you’re-not-gonna-get-it.

Fred’s aplomb can be less than chivalrous. At some point, a neighborhood dog taught Fred how to bark; and, unlike
that neighborhood dog, Fred’s bark resembles something closer to a riiip! At first, he riiipped! at everything—the doorbell, an opening
door, closing door, a giggle, the sound of someone saying “hello!,” an automatic car-lock beep, the toilet flushing, or someone
on the television saying “hello!” Fortunately, he’s focused his riiip!-ing to the front door, an automatic car-lock beep, and other
barking dogs. After his debut at the Lake Campus, I knew that Fred wasn’t just a frou-frou dog. As I
watched him race across the beach and skid into the murky brown water, I realized that Fred is one of
the more self-assured dogs that I’ve met. He’ll perform his tricks and sit in my lap while I’m at the
hair salon, but he won’t nod off to sleep in the crook of my arm nor will he closely follow
my heel. Fred’s independence has charmed The Davidsonian staff, the Davidson College campus and neighborhood, and of course we all
know that he’s charmed me.

Acknowledging that he’s growing up is bittersweet. Fred’s too big to fit in a pocketbook and he unfortunately maintains a
certain trace of dog. Real dog. Not sweet, little fluff-pup.

Photo by Cannon HopcGE
Fred the dog. Distraction is the key to all of his charm.
