DAVIDSON COLLEGE  
Che @ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @ WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 2004  

Public Safety shake-up  
New personnel additions raise questions about ties to Cornelius Police Department  
By Les.it HEMPSON  
Senior Staff Writer  

Fountain Walker, Director of Public Safety and Police, recently hired part-time patrol Sgt. Jonathan Sarver to replace Lt. Jim Lyon as Assistant Director. Lyon said he was terminated by the College on Jan. 5, exactly three months before Sarver officially assumed the Assistant Director position. Counting Sarver, roughly half of all Public Safety employees presently work for or previously worked for the Cornelius Police Department.  

Assistant Director Sarver  
Sarver, who took a part-time job with Davidson one year ago, was formally offered the Assistant Director job on Mar. 17. He submitted his letter of acceptance to the Office of Human Resources on Mar. 26.  

Asst. Dir. Jonathan Sarver  
Sarver has worked in law enforcement for 20 years. He was most recently employed by the Cornelius Police Department and continued working at that job even after the College hired him part-time. Sarver previously worked at the Huntersville and Town of Davidson police departments and has an Associate’s Degree in Law Enforcement Technology. Walker praised Sarver highly. “He’s going to bring a lot to the College. You’re talking about a guy who has a lot of drive. He wants to see things happen, not just for himself, but for others as well,” Walker said.  

Lyon’s Termination  
Although Walker called Lyon’s departure a “joint decision,” Lyon said that he had been fired after two-and-a-half years on the job. According to Lyon, Walker informed him on Jan. 5 that he had violated department policy by letting his wife “carry [his] department-issued cell phone” and would have to leave his job. “That’s the explanation [Walker] gave me,” Lyon said. “That’s the explanation [Director of Human Resources] Carl Sorensen gave me in his [termination] letter. Chief Walker didn’t ask me to resign. He terminated me.”  

Lyon explained that he had worked late the night before the cell phone incident, and after church the next morning, decided to get some rest.  

see Public Safety, page 4  

First Class | U.S. Postage Paid  
Permit #1  
Davidson, NC  

VOLUME 95, NUMBER 21  

A student looks at available rooms during singles lottery last Wednesday. “Lottery Night” is tonight.  

More students to get on-campus housing  
By Blair McGraw  
Senior Staff Writer  

The lottery process for next year’s housing has gone better than RLO originally expected. Dean Leslie Marsicano, Director of Residence Life said, “We’re feeling a little better about our prospects of having a bed for everyone.” The lottery has gone better than expected primarily because of the large number of students requesting to go abroad or requesting to live in off-campus housing. “We had hoped for 150 students to go abroad, but many more actually applied,” Marsicano said. “More seniors than usual applied for off-campus, which has a trickle-down effect.”  

The large number of students who are planning to go abroad and live off campus has freed up space on campus. This resulted in more space than usual at the Senior Apartments during Phase I of the lottery in March.  

see Lottery, page 5  

By ADAM MARTIN  
Senior Staff Writer  

What do Warner’s Crush Party, the Baseball Team, and eight women in a small Nicaraguan village have in common? T-shirts. Sanctuary, a Christian-based social justice organization of Davidson Students, has recently begun advocating the use of “sweat-free” t-shirts made by the Women’s Sewing Cooperative in Nueva Vida (New Life), Nicaragua. “It’s an easy wayHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"To support sustainable development by simply cutting out the middleman," said Sanctuary’s Publicity Chair Nicole Mader ’06. While some on campus are immediately supportive, Davidson Screen Printers owner Ken Hageman asks that people consider the effects on workers' welfare locally. Hageman says that his business would be imperiled if it lost the college’s business. Yet Sanctuary is asking fraternities, eating houses, sports teams, the administration, and eventually the College Bookstore to buy shirts from the Coop and get them shipped directly to their normal screen printers for final production.

College Chaplain Rob Spach has taken Davidson students to Women’s Coop in Nueva Vida at least two out of the last five Alternative Spring Break trips to Nicaragua. "These women’s stories are just amazing," an enthused Spach said. "They physically built this cooperative themselves in the midst of tremendous adversity. It’s such a great alternative to the sweatshop model."

"Sweatshops" are generally defined by inhumane practices that exploit workers with few alternatives, such as extremely low wages compared to the standard of living and unsafe working conditions. Two of the students who went with Spach to Nicaragua last year, Morgan Gregson ’06 and Anna Brew ’05, are also Sanctuary’s leading members. They and others have recently met with the Patterson Court Council, the Student Athlete Council, United Community Action, and the Baker Equipment Staff. They have made presentations on how Davidson students can easily model "socially responsible consuming" and why they ought to, according to Mader.

See Sanctuary, page 3

---

A day in the life: Fred barks back.

ITS searches for cause of slow network

By AMANDA STEPHENS
Senior Staff Writer

Over the past few months, Davidson’s computer network has been very slow to respond to applications such as Banner, Outlook, public files on Louise, and other library applications. The network’s slow response is most noticeable during times of high network usage. Despite continued efforts, ITS remains uncertain of the problem.

Problems with the network were first detected in October when the Admissions Office noticed that Banner was responding very slowly. Since that time, the network slowness has affected many other applications. Because reductions in network speed happen intermittently, it has been very difficult for ITS to identify the problem. Due to students leaving Davidson for the summer, network activity will decrease significantly, making it even more difficult to track the problem.

As a result, it has become imperative for ITS to identify the problem quickly. In an effort to fix the problem, ITS has upgraded the software on Davidson’s five core computer switches, which are located in the Belk Computer Lab, Chambers, Baker Sports Complex, Cunningham Fine Arts Building, and the Computer Services Office. Work on these main switches showed that they were not part of the problem. ITS has also been loading and testing new drivers for server network cards and PC network cards. Network cards, also known as Ethernet cards, connect each computer to the network. In addition, ITS has also been checking individual network cards, requiring personnel to inspect computers around the campus. Because of differences between manufacturers, inspecting network cards can be a complicated and lengthy process.

ITS has also had difficulty determining whether or not network slow-

See ITS, page 2

---

They | 2) Saw fs | 9A a" at ol @ News: D'Souza brings top conservative voice to CAMPUS stepace2 Aal, PAGET Snoopy. 32 minutes to contemplate Can’t drive jthis to the APE. PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 15