SPORTS

Men push streak to four with another pair of 7-0 victories

Women’s basketball drops two straight to ETSU, UTC

By Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

In their first action since two commanding victories nearly a week ago, the men’s tennis team extended their winning streak
to four matches on Saturday, sweeping a home doubleheader against Queens University and Belmont Abbey College. With their dominant triumphs,
the Wildcats now boast a 4-1 early-season record, equaling their impressive start last season.

The men kicked off the long day of tennis at the Knobloch Tennis Center against Queens University, easily defeating the
overmatched Royals 7-0. Even with a lineup consisting mainly of younger players, Davidson never came close to losing a set.
The ’Cats started the match strong by winning the doubles point with victories in all three matches. The most exciting
and competitive doubles match took place on court two, with Jonathan Britt ’04 and Rob Gould ’04 grinding out a
9-7 victory to raise their record to 4-0.

In singles, usual starters Donald Miles ’05, Britt, and Porus Jetli ’07 rested while their replacements (Daniel Bermeo ’06, John
Bolton ’07, and Thomas Jeter ’06) performed capably at the four through six slots in the lineup, respectively. Only one
Davidson player lost more than four games in singles action, with Jeter earning a 7-5, 6-3 victory at the number
six position.

The afternoon match against Belmont Abbey College featured more of the same success from the ’Cats, as Davidson rolled over
the Crusaders 7-0. The Wildcats once again took an early lead by winning the doubles point, and Britt and Gould
won again to remain undefeated at 5-0. Bolton and Jetli took advantage of an opportunity to compete at the number
three doubles slot, winning easily by an 8-1 margin. Rob Haywood ’04, Bryan Stonestreet ’04, and Russ Burns ’05 sat
out the afternoon match, with Bermeo, Bolton, and Joe Cheaney ’06 taking over the four through six positions against the
Crusaders. The Wildcats were in complete control in singles, as only two ’Cats lost more than two games, and Cheaney
blanked his opponent at number six 6-0, 6-0.

After winning each of their last four matches 7-0, the Wildcats are building up the confidence they will need in
the coming weeks. The men have two challenging non-conference matches left before embarking on a difficult Southern Conference schedule.

see Men’s, page 13

Wildcats drop to 10-6 in Southern Conference, fourth place behind UTC, Furman, and ETSU

By Erin DELK
Senior Staff Writer

The women’s basketball team suffered two disappointing losses on their weekend road trip to Tennessee. On Saturday, the ETSU Bucs
dominated the ’Cats, scoring 50 points in the second half to roll to an 83-54 victory. As Robyn Flewelling ’04
noted after the game, “We did have a fairly solid first half, but just lost it after halftime.”

Davidson began with their typical balanced attack, as six players scored four or more points in the first half. The
’Cats entered halftime with a 34-33 lead. Unfortunately, Davidson’s offense virtually disappeared in the second half, as they went 4-of-24
from the floor, including 0-6 from behind the arc. The Wildcats went to the line 16 more times than ETSU
in the second half but were unable to capitalize on the opportunities.Half but only managed to shoot a dismal 66
percent. While Davidson’s offense went ice cold, ETSU’s shooters got red hot. All five starters scored in double figures for
the Bucs as they shot a blazing 54 percent from the floor and 57 percent from the three-point line. As
Flewelling remarked, it was a tough loss for the ’Cats, and they hoped to bounce back with an upset at
UT-Chattanooga. Unfortunately, Davidson could not break the longest current winning streak in the nation, and the Wildcats fell 77-50 on
Monday night. Once again, Davidson could not answer their opponent’s offense. “We had a great game plan, and initially we
did bother them defensively, but they obviously bothered us more as we could not even finish open shots,” said Lindsay
Shade ’04. UTC jumped out to an early lead by scoring seven of the first eight points in the contest.
Davidson pulled to within eight at 21-13 on a lay-up by Meghan Bryant ’04, but UTC responded with 15 straight
points. The Wildcats faltered and missed five lay-ups during the Mocs’ 15-0 run. The second half played out much like
the first, with UTC coming out strong in the beginning and holding out through to the end. For the second
game in a row, no Davidson player scored in double figures. In both games, Katie Hamilton ’07 was Davidson’s leading
scorer with eight points against ETSU and, along with Jessica Mitchell ’07, nine points against UTC. As both Flewelling and
Shade acknowledged, “Even though Chattanooga is a tough team to beat when they are at home, this was an especially
difficult loss; however, with only four regular season games left, we have to move on and focus on our most
important opponent: the next one.” In this case, Davidson’s next opponent is Elon, who they will take on in Belk
Arena on Valentine’s Day at 3:30 p.m., immediately following the men’s game.

Get Out This Semester with Davidson Outdoors!

Upcoming Trips:
- Caving: February 21-22, $50
- Classic Everglades Canoe Trip: February 28-March 7 (Spring Break!), $200
- Whitegrass “Winter Adventure”: February 28-March 3 (Spring Break!), $200
- Mt. Rogers Backpacking: March 19-21, $25
- Whitewater Rafting: March 26-27, $75
- Fly Fishing @ the Green River: April 2-4, $25
- Backpacking to LeConte Lodge: April 9-13 (Easter Break), $100
- Beginner Kayaking: April 9-13 (Easter Break), $100
- Beginner Climbing: April 17-18, $25
- Stone Mountain Day Hike: May 1, $5

Get Excited About Spring Break With “Into the Woods” Weekly (on campus) Adventures!
- Cast Iron Chef Cook Off (Union and Atrium): Wednesday 2/11, Judging starts @ 5
- Climbing Competition w/ SAE (Climbing Wall): Monday 2/16, 7-10 pm (entry fee for charity)
- Disc Golf Tournament: Monday 2/23, $5 entry fee, PRIZES (questions contact dacrane)
- Fly Casting Workshop (Chambers lawn): FREE! Monday 5/8
- The Last American Man? Eustace Conway here 3/15 & 16 (including teepee workshop, evening talk, rope making, and fire
making demos)
- Campout at Peaks Campus with PE! Bonfire, DO tents and probably lots of flannel (TBD, week of 3/23) FREE!
- Grand Finale Triathlon - Run, Bike (on Red Bikes), and Canoe in teams of 4 @ Lake Campus: Saturday
4/9

Don’t FORGET! DO Climbing Wall Open M-F 3:30-5:30, M-Th 7-9 (Kayak Rolling in the Pool Every Thursday Night 7-9). More
info about all things DO @ http://www2.davidson.edu/studentlife/involved/do/do_home.asp
