THE DAVIDSONIAN Arts & LIVING

Shops for the frugal

Doesn’t Birkdale remind you of “The Stepford Wives?” It is sterile, complacent, and lacks the cultural flair that once made Davidson so familiar. Our fashionable research staff has compiled a list of affordable places of which you may or may not be familiar.

1.) Oak Street Mill — This antique-store mill is perfect for those who enjoy strolling through neatly maintained booths that overflow with personal items of yesterday. One staffer once found a vintage Christian Dior belt for $20, and another found dainty church gloves that kiss the elbow. Fabulous! Oak Street Mill: 19725 Oak St. Cornelius, 704-895-2653.

2.) Habitat for Humanity — Another gem for those who love what’s old. Habitat for Humanity: 20310 North Main Street, 704-896-8468. [Behind the Police Station in Cornelius]

3.) The Goodwill Retail Store — Popular among students who frequent Patterson Court’s theme parties. The Goodwill has everything from bridal gowns to old-school straight skis. The Goodwill: exit 28, 214 Williamson Road; 704-696-0033.

4.) Value Village — This is more of an underground treasure. Value Village is a large-scale used clothing store that has fabulous vintage jackets and more. Carolina Value Village: exit 36, 314 East Plaza; 704-663-7242.

5.) Target — Now that Target offers designs by Isaac Mizrahi, Mossimo, Cynthia Rowley, and Michael Graves, who needs their more pricey items? Target truly has become the French boutique for the cheap. Super Target: exit 36, 9801 Sam Furr Rd; 704-896-2601.

6.) Syms — A favorite among those who enjoy serious browsing and don’t mind dressing rooms that resemble corral stalls more than they do a shopping arena. However, Syms is a leading off-price retailer that offers designer items for less than $20. Syms: 3600 N. Sharon Amity Rd, Charlotte; 704-532-0018.

7.) Concord Mills — Too many acres of all things discount. Our favorite stores are: Bass Pro Shop, Banana Republic Factory Store, Eddie Bauer Outlet, Forever 21, Brooks Brothers Factory Store, Polo Ralph Lauren Factory Store, Perry Ellis, Arden B, and Saks Off Fifth. If all of these stores appeal, bring your lunch money. Concord Mills: 8111 Concord Mills Blvd; 704-979-5000.

8.) T.J.Maxx — Where one Davidsonian purchased their formal wear. T.J.Maxx has everything from designer jeans like Diesel and Miss Sixty to fabulous hosiery. T.J.Maxx: exit 36, Sam Furr Road; 704-799-3757.

9.) J&R — Best place to buy Wranglers and other Western-style accoutrements for cheap. J&R is somewhat of a haul but its boastful billboards offer exciting literature during your drive. J&R: 1515 East Broad St, Statesville; 704-872-5300.Short skirts, a far cry from BJU. Yet our first pick in the Davidson bad-fashion draft goes to pale shades of pink, blue, and yellow. Women wear pastels here like the buildings wear brick. We just went to a party at which a powerful pastel tube dress bomb had been set off, tragically wounding almost every female, and one very drunk male. Of course, everyone looked lovely, and we too were wearing pink. The problem with pastels is that, when worn in multiples, one tends to look like an Easter egg, or a cool bowl of sherbet. And while a soft yellow or pink looks great on those with bronze skin, the pale turn pastry-like. We love a good pastel on a summer day, but only when donned with awareness and not wild abandon.

We also have issues with teeny-tiny flared skirts and body-hugging, brightly striped shirts. What about other prints, girls? Or other skirt lengths? We were recently inspired by a brochure from Bob Jones University in which four women smile with the joy of the Lenten season. Really, they are just super-excited about their ankle-length skirts, which is the female dress code requirement at the school. So what say we bring back the long skirt? Or, we don’t know, some length that doesn’t require me to see the under-curve of everyone’s butt cheeks.

The pointy-toed shoe has become a cliché not only at Davidson, but also among twenty-something women across America. But be sure to watch out for shoes with extreme promontories: they are dangerously close to those medieval page elf shoes one sees in tapestries. We’re none too far away from this historical disaster—and, perhaps, severe foot disfigurement. Furthermore, college women often pair the dagger-toed shoe with tight flared jeans and a slinky sleeveless top. We are all about this combo; it’s a simple way to look jazzy and put-together. But when lost amidst a sea of other well-heeled and tank-topped lovelies at a party, we find ourselves feeling bland. All we are suggesting is a little creativity.

Shall we even proffer advice to the gentlemen of Davidson College? Pastel shorts, Rainbow flip flops, polo collars popped or fraternity or sport t-shirt perfectly scruffed—it is a uniform of iron that cannot be welded anew, perhaps not until Judgment Day itself. We know we’ve all given up sometimes, but really, try not to wear a Davidson sweatshirt and jeans every day. It only says that you're studying too much (and who’s doing that?). And we know that we all need a handy way of carrying our CatCards, but wow, do lanyards make ugly necklaces. Especially the bright red Davidson ones with needlepoint-sampler stitching.

But really, we don’t want to change too much about Davidson wear. While the stylish would probably be disgusted by the homogeneity of our campus, we would argue that we are a better-dressed bunch than many universities. Whether one conforms to the trends or smartly steps out on their own, we can generally say that we’re not slobs. But then, we have our laundry done for us. If we didn’t, wrinkled pants would be en vogue.

Peninsula China Bistro
1-77 Brewery | ~1mi. ext 7. Eo 19906 N Cove Rd Cornelius Crossland Centre at Jetton Village
- FREE DELIVERY (min $20) -
LUNCH HOURS:
Mon-Thurs 11:30-3:00
Fri & Sat 11:30-3:00
Sun 12:00-3:00
DINNER HOURS:
Mon-Thurs 5:00-10:00
Fri & Sat 5:00-11:00
Sun 5:00-10:00