THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2004 5

Police, from page 1

“If the PCC leaders are updated regularly on the specific problems officers are encountering on the Court, then we can try to address the problems with our members before we are all out at parties and emotions are running high.”

President Bobby Vagt said that the complaints that have been brought to his attention are not new and that the meeting is focused on increasing communication and clearing up misconceptions rather than changing policy.

“It is important we hear students out so that if we are going over the edge we can correct our mistakes,” Vagt said.

“We don’t want people going off campus or in their rooms to drink, which is why we are having this meeting,” he added.

According to a recent survey, 71 percent of students consider the current enforcement of campus safety policies to be about right, while 26 percent feel it is too strict.

Dissatisfaction was higher among fraternity members, with 54 percent reporting that campus safety enforcement is too strict and only 43 percent saying it is about right.

Some students feel that the general atmosphere on Patterson Court has deteriorated over the years.

“During my freshman year, cops were people you could trust if you or a friend had a problem,” Greg Stewart ’05 said. “Now many students are worried to even approach a cop since they might get written up for having dilated eyes or smelling alcohol on your breath.”

Walker said that his officers issue citations when a code of conduct or alcohol violation is blatantly obvious.

“The number of students who receive verbal warnings or a moment of education from an officer is tremendous compared to the number of students who actually receive citations,” Walker said.

Walker said that the number of police officers in attendance at any party is based on the size of the party.

Extenuating circumstances may prompt more police visibility than usual.

For example, increased police presence at an October 30th Warner Hall party stemmed from five trespassers attempting to gain access into the party.

According to Walker, the trespassers were from the Nascar Technical Institute in Mooresville and several of them had criminal records.

“During my freshman year, cops were people you could trust if you or a friend had a problem. Now many students are worried to even approach a cop since they might get written up for having dilated eyes or smelling alcohol on your breath.”
--Greg Stewart '05

Additionally, bringing in town police to cover Patterson Court parties is not a new practice.

“There is no way our staff of six police officers can cover all the weekend events, all of the time,” Shandley said.

Some students are concerned that town officers may come across to students as less approachable.

“It seems to me town officers are not used to the expectation Chief Walker has for his officers to be friendly and approachable,” Voyles said. “They are used to being intimidating and this makes students uncomfortable and defensive.”

Walker said he works closely with town officers to ensure that they adjust appropriately to a campus atmosphere.

According to Shandley, there is no discernible difference between the number of alcohol citations issued by the town officers and the campus officers.

Summit, from page 1
To help with the floors, regular employees are trading off morning and night shifts to complete most of the hard labor.

The Summit coffeehouse is one of the few locations where Davidson students and the broader community come together to relax, read, and converse.

The coffee shop has repeatedly been named the region’s best place for coffee by numerous publications.

Some Davidson students are concerned that the renovations might compromise the rustic interior of Summit, an allure that many customers regard as Summit’s best characteristic.

“The appeal of main street stores is that they are old and original, renovating Summit could eliminate some of the feeling of antiquity inside the shop,” said Stuart Tomko ’05.

Summit’s general manager and part owner Tim Helfrich, a 2000 Davidson graduate, promises that renovations will only “give the shop a face lift while keeping the basic feel.”

Helfrich further pointed out that renovations will “really brighten up the shop and make it look and feel cleaner.”

Summit regular Chris Hallet ’05 remains optimistic.

“I’m not afraid the renovations will turn Summit into Starbucks; it’s going to make it better, I trust the people there and I know they will do a good job,” Hallet said.

Summit’s upstairs loft, often used as a comfortable study space by Davidson students, will not be renovated this time around, but is expected to be given a touch up as well within the next six months.

Helfrich admits that closing the shop for four days during this time of year is tough on both the customers and the employees.

He insists, however, that the renovations were necessary and the store will be much improved when it reopens this Friday.

The interior of Summit during its renovation.

Your Dream: “I want to become a doctor.”

The Johns Hopkins Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program prepares college graduates with strong academic records to apply to the best medical schools by giving them the personal attention, the necessary science and math courses, and one-to-one academic advising.

If you or someone you know wants to start a career as a doctor, apply during the application period of September 1 to March 1.

For more information, visit www.jhu.edu/postbac or call 410-516-7748.

Your Reality: “I don’t have the required courses for medical school.”

JOHNS HOPKINS

Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program