- THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2004

Zakaria will speak at Bank of America Conference
Christians, Jews, Muslims to discuss common beliefs
Greater student participation in event wanted

By Adam Martin
Senior Staff Writer

Fareed Zakaria, current editor of Newsweek International, will be among ten distinguished speakers and panelists assembling on Davidson’s campus for
the endowed Bank of America Conference March 28-31. The endowment for the conference, given by Charlotte-based Bank of America, generated
about $40,000 for this year’s conference. The amount totaled a little more than usual for the conference that takes place
every other year.

“This conference demonstrates a commitment to the international education of all students with a kind of intensity that is rare
among small liberal arts schools,” according to Dr. Chris Alexander, Director of Dean Rusk and Associate Professor of Political Science.

Planning for the conference began a year ago when Alexander asked the student body for suggestions on conference topics. He
and the Dean Rusk Student Advisory Committee (SAC) then took the submissions and held several discussions with other interested students.
This year’s conference, entitled “National Interests/Global Challenges: Prosperity, Security and Sovereignty in the 21st Century,” is the result of those
discussions and months of planning. Alexander hopes that “the broadness of this year’s theme will offer something for almost everybody”
and that students will have “to make anguished decisions about how much time they can give during those few days.”

Though covering a generally broad range of topics, the central thread of the conference will examine “the important principle of
national sovereignty,” said Alexander. Dr. Stephen Krasner will begin the conference with a keynote address on Mar 28, entitled “The
Exhaustion of Sovereignty.” Krasner has been Professor of International Relations at Stanford University since 1981. He also worked for the
United Nations National Security Council in 2002 as Director of Governance and Development.

Events on the following Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday will loosely revolve around current economic, political and environmental challenges, respectively. Each
night will feature one panel discussion and one keynote speaker, totaling seven events for the four days. Zakaria will keynote
Tuesday evening also as the distinguished Wearn Lecturer sponsored by the Public Lectures Committee. He is the current Editor of
Newsweek International and author of a new book, “The Future of Freedom: Illiberal Democracy at Home and Abroad” due for
release in April. He will speak here about current and future global threats and U.S. foreign policy.

Other speakers include Kathryn Washburn, Director of International Affairs for the U.S. Department of the Interior, and David Runnalls, President
and Chief Executive Officer of the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD). Alexander pointed out that this year’s panel speakers
will only speak for 30 minutes each, leaving a full hour for question-and-answer. “This will provide Davidson students a chance
not only to learn from but to match wits with our articulate speakers,” said Alexander.

Co-chair of the SAC, Josh Craft ’04 said, “We want everybody to understand the gravity of this event and get
excited about it. This can be a great opportunity for students to meet and get to know some big and
interesting names.” Students interested in meeting the guests may do so by driving them to or from the airport or
eating dinner with them and should contact Craft or Alexander.

Professors, from page 1

Ross said that eligible faculty members must display three qualifications: “Excellence in teaching, continued professional activity which oftentimes means research
and publications, and service to the College.” Promotion to full professor status honors faculty members for their contributions to the
College. “There isn’t a direct tangible benefit [to promotion], it’s more a recognition of continuous achievement,” Ross said.

Departmental Hiring

Starting in January, candidates for permanent positions started visiting Davidson for on-campus interviews, a process many students claim has disrupted
at least one of their classes. While at Davidson, the candidates met with President Vagt and faculty members from their
prospective department. They also made at least one presentation related to their professional work or taught a class.

Georgie Ahrendt ’06 said that for two class periods in a row, she and her peers listened to lectures given
by candidates vying for an open position instead of following their regular schedule. Although Ahrendt appreciated the opportunity to meet
the candidates, she expressed some frustration with the interruption. “I think [the guest lectures] did put us behind in our
class,” Ahrendt said. “It was definitely two full days that [our professor] didn’t get to lecture. It wasn’t in our
syllabus.” The interview process has also disturbed classes taught by visiting professors.who are competing for permanent faculty positions. Martha Shott
’06 said that one of her professors had already missed two or three classes in order to attend Davidson interviews.
While the professor arranged for a substitute teacher, Shott felt that the substitute’s presence did not make up for her
actual professor’s absence. Shott explained, “[The substitute] doesn’t disrupt [class] completely, but there is a sense that since she doesn’t
know where we’re at, there’s a disparity between what she thinks we know and what we really know. I think
that if a professor is interviewing for another position at Davidson, then the administration should allow them to teach their
Davidson classes.”

Dr. Alberto Hernandez Chiroldes, Chair of the Spanish department, wrote by e-mail that his department, at least, made a conscious
effort not to schedule an interview during class time. Also, candidates who lectured to classes were expected to teach the
same subjects already noted on the syllabus. Open positions are available in the History, Music, Philosophy, Sociology, and Spanish departments.
Ross indicated that he and Vagt hoped to make job offers around March 1.

With help of Abraham book
By Joun Helms
Staff Writer

Starting in the middle of March, there will be a series of discussions among the Christian, Jewish, and Muslim groups
on campus revolving around the patriarch of the three faiths: Abraham. Using selected passages from the book “Abraham: A Journey
to the Heart of Three Faiths” by Bruce Feiler, the group hopes to open up a dialogue among the different
religious groups. According to initiator Adam Martin ’06, “Davidson is getting to a point where there’s a significant amount of
religious diversity. We’re at the point where there are enough students of different faith traditions where there are different organizations
to support them.”

One of the objectives of the discussions is for the participants to discover common ground among the three faiths. Since
Judaism, Christianity, and Islam all trace their roots back to Abraham, Martin wants to use the story of Abraham to
show that the religions share many common beliefs. “It would be a discussion that hopefully demonstrates that the religions can
talk and agree on things and find out that we have a lot more in common than we thought,” said
Martin.

Other students who are actively involved in the planning of these discussions, such as Faris Al Mazrui ’07, hope that
the discussions will go beyond the story of Abraham and extend to today’s religious issues. “I’d like to walk out
of it feeling that I can live with my brothers from the other religions. There should be no barriers between
us. We should live in peace and work together in harmony,” said Al Mazrui.

While religious conflicts are not the focus of the discussions, Martin hopes that the discussions help explain the differences in
the Jewish, Christian, and Islamic versions of Abraham’s story and how that affects the relationship among the three religions. While
the book provides some pretext for the discussions, Martin does not want the book to constrain the possible topics of
the discussions. “We’re using the book as a reference for the structure of the discussion, but we’re not tightly bound
to the book. We realize that most of the people attending these meetings will be busy. We don’t want people
who come to think that they have to read the book. We’re making packets with stories from different scriptures and
some passages from the Abraham book. We know that people are busy,” said Martin.

Martin notes that the success of the book discussions will not necessarily rely on a conclusion or consensus. He said
that “a successful discussion would be where people would be comfortable with talking to other people [of different religions] about
their faith.” The discussion group will meet Thursday evenings starting March 11 and finishing April 1. Students interested in attending
these meetings are encouraged to commit to three out of four of the meetings, but participants are not required to
read the text prior to attending the discussions.

Your Dream: “I want to become a doctor.”
Your Reality: “I don’t have the required courses for medical school.”

The Johns Hopkins Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program prepares graduates with strong academic records to apply to the best medical schools by
giving them the personal attention, the necessary science and math college courses, and one-to-one academic advising. If you or someone
you know wants to pursue a career as a doctor, apply by March 1. For more information, visit www.jhu.edu/postbac or
call 410-516-7748.
