‘Alex Entrekin ’06 makes the play at the plate’ during the ’Cats’ 3-2 victory over No. 28 UNC-G. By RICHARD CONNOLLY Staff Writer. After opening the season with an impressive series against Georgetown, the baseball team has picked up several wins against some of the country’s best competition en route to a 6-8 record on the still young season. Captain Brian Akin ’04 has proven himself as a force to be reckoned with on the mound this year, compiling a 3-0 record in four starts while allowing just six earned runs and striking out 28 against just eight walks. Rob Wilson ’07 has begun his collegiate career on the right foot, picking up two wins and posting a 1.98 ERA in five appearances, and Jay Heafner ’06 has established himself as a dependable arm coming out of the bullpen. At the plate, catcher Alex Entrekin ’06 has stormed out of the gate, rattling off a team-high 22 hits in just 13 games while also leading the ’Cats in six other offensive categories. Four other Wildcats currently maintain an average above .300. Last night, however, the bats were quiet as Davidson was waxed by third-ranked South Carolina, 10-1, in Columbia. Michael Muniz ’05 went 3-for-4 and scored Davidson’s only run in the losing effort. The ’Cats have had some success against top teams, though. Just before Spring Break, in what was perhaps their finest effort to date, the Wildcats knocked off ACC-power Duke at Wildcat Park, 3-2, in Wilson’s debut. Davidson then dropped three in a row by a combined 24 runs, one each to Charlotte, Gardner-Webb, and East Tennessee State. Behind another dominant day at the plate from Muniz, who went 4-for-5 with two runs and two RBIs, Davidson then bounced back and downed ETSU 9-5, and they repeated the victorious performance against the Bucs the following day as Akin picked up his second win of the year. The Wildcats then dropped three more in a row, but this time by a combined seven runs, losing at home against William and Mary and twice on the road at nationally-ranked UNC-Greensboro, all hotly contested games. At William and Mary, Davidson had the tying run at the plate but was unable to convert in a game where Ronnie Shore ’06 went 2-for-3, reaching base five times, scoring twice, and driving in two more. Against 28th-ranked UNCG, Davidson surrendered two runs in the last of the ninth to lose 6-5, and the following day dropped an 11-8 decision to the Spartans. Not wanting to leave Greensboro without a win, Davidson rebounded in the third game of the series and walked away with a well-deserved 3-2 victory. Akin went eight innings, tying a career-high with 11 strikeouts, and Heafner came on in the ninth for the save. Entrekin went 2-for-3 and ripped a game-winning two-run double in the fifth, and Eli Benefield ’05 wrapped two hits and drove in the first Davidson run. The Wildcats begin a six-game home stand tonight against Yale and will host Elon for three games this weekend before Wake Forest and Radford come to town next Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively.

Tough draw: NCAA-bound ETSU bumps ’Cats from semis. By WILSON McCrory Senior Staff Writer. When Ian Johnson ’06 netted nine straight points against the East Tennessee State Buccaneers to bring the Wildcats to within five at 73-68 with just over nine minutes to play in their semifinal tournament match-up, it appeared that the ’Cats might just find a way to extend their season-high win streak to ten. After gutting out a close quarterfinal victory over Elon the day before at the North Charleston Coliseum in the Southern Conference Tournament, the Wildcats were in position to complete a remarkable 18-point comeback over the top-seeded Bucs and earn a spot in the Southern Conference championship game. The victory was not to be, however, as the deficit hovered between six and ten points the rest of the way before the Bucs finally pulled away in the final minute, ending the win streak at nine and sending the ’Cats home for the summer. Davidson 68, Elon 61. Against Elon in the quarterfinal round of the SoCon tournament, it looked for much of the game as though the Wild-Cats would pull a page from the 2003 book, in which the team lost to VMI in their opening-round game in the conference tournament. Forward Logan Kosmalski ’05 was whistled for his second personal foul just four minutes into the first half, limiting the Wildcats’ inside-outside balance, and the team struggled to find its rhythm on the offensive side of the floor as he sat for the rest of the period. Davidson shot only 33 percent from the field in the first half, including just 2 of 11 from beyond the arc, and trailed 25-22 after a lackluster 20 minutes of play. “That was a carbon copy of our first half against VMI last year,” stated head coach Bob McKillop, “[as] that sense of urgency [of a tournament game] took away our patience... We were able to get in the lane, but we missed about five or six short shots in the paint too.” The Wildcats came out more focused in the second half, however, and Davidson used better than fifty percent shooting to climb back into the game in the waning minutes. A Gary Marsh jumper for Elon gave the Phoenix a six-point lead at 53-47 with only five minutes to play, but the Wildcats took control from there with a seven-point run to finally take the lead they would not relinquish. Still, the victory wasn’t secure until a late Ian Johnson three-pointer from the top of the key, giving Davidson an 8-point lead with just over a minute to play in the 68-61 victory.

ETSU 96, Davidson 84

The writing was on the wall for the Wildcats long before the final whistle against the Buccaneers, as ETSU jumped out to a double-digit lead early in the contest and watched their lead grow to as much as 18 points in the second half before Davidson finally made a run. And while Zakee Wadood came in with the hype of two-time reigning Southern Conference Player of the Year, Tim Smith ’06, the Buccaneers’ lightning-quick 5’9” floor general, proved to be the difference-maker for ETSU. Smith, who led the Bucs this year in scoring with nearly 16 points a game, pushed the ball at every opportunity, generating easy buckets for himself and his teammates and earning multiple trips to the charity stripe. “We changed up men on [Smith] all night,” said McKillop, “with Nick [Booker ’05], Matt [McKillop ’06], Terrell [Ivory ’04], and Kenny [Grant ’06]... but his first two steps are as quick as anyone you'll find in the country.” For the game, Smith was 10-20 from the floor, as well as 8-8 from the free throw line, to lead all scorers with 29 points. Meanwhile, when the Wildcats tried to stop Smith’s penetration and protect their foul-plagued line-up with a zone defense, according to McKillop, the hot shooting of reserve guard Tim Strong, who made 5-7 three-point attempts, further exposed the Wildcat defense. Despite the Buccaneers’ dominance, the ’Cats were within...

see Basketball, page 14

All-Conference selection Brendan Winters ’06 was unable to lift the ’Cats past the Bucs.

Brian Akin ‘04
Baseball
Hometown: Louisville, KY
Major: Mathematics and Economics

In the middle of the ’Cats’ second three-game skid of the season, Akin once again came up huge in the finale at UNC-Greensboro. He pitched a strong eight innings, scattering seven hits, while allowing only two earned runs in the Wildcat victory. Akin also tied his career high with 11 strikeouts. In doing so, he improved his record to 3-0 on the season with a team-leading 1.93 ERA.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

In a recent game against Denver at a neutral site in Maryland, starting midfielder Lindsay Frank ’05 went on a scoring binge for the ’Cats, tallying five goals in the opening 18 minutes. Frank wasted no time exploiting a weak Pioneer defense. Her first goal came a mere 30 seconds into the match. Frank then added her second just two minutes later. By the time she had finished, the Wildcats had jumped to a quick 5-1 lead. Unfortunately, the Pioneers were able to mount a steady comeback throughout the rest of the game, securing the victory with a go-ahead goal at the 1:30 mark. Frank increased her total to 17 goals and 6 assists on the season.