- THE DAVIDSONIAN

HUMOR

Professor just realized he’s old
“Meatballs” apparently not hip anymore
By THOMAS ANSTROM
Senior Staff

CHAMBERS—Associate Professor of History Michael Gruder came to a frightening conclusion in his “Warfare and the 1940s” seminar this Monday:
he is old. The realization struck during the middle of Gruder’s lecture on “The Japanese in 1940's Bugs Bunny Cartoons,”
when he unsuccessfully attempted to reference the 1970s “classic” “Meatballs” time and time again. When even his best "You are
walking around with a sombrero full of peanuts" failed to amuse the class, Gruder finally threw up his hands and
asked who had seen “Meatballs.”

“This is one of the saddest days of my life.” When no hands went up, the realization suddenly struck home.
Said Gruder, "This is one of the saddest days of my life. I always assumed that I was one of
those cool teachers, you know the ones who go to the concerts and stuff like that. I guess I'm not
cool after all. I'm just an old guy. It finally happened.”

Gruder then broke into tears and immediately proceeded to cancel his seminar for next semester entitled, "The 1970's: The decade
I was raised in."

Gruder's students were almost as horrified as he was by the experience. “God, I hope I am never that hopelessly
out of touch,” said Jen Warner '04. “At least I feel good knowing my knowledge of witty “Office Space” quotes
will keep me cool for years to come."

SELF HELP
Professor Mike Gruder (inset) realized he was old this Monday, joining the ranks of old professors like these pictured above.

THE YOWL
Voted The Davidsonian’s best humor section, one semester running!

I never knew how popular I was until I joined ResNet!

Now, I don’t have to tell you guys—I’m a pretty smooth operator. It’s no secret that the ladies naturally take
an interest in me, whether smiling at me on their way to class, or respectfully declining an invitation to see
my recently purchased Special Edition DVD of the third “Matrix.” But lately, I must say, I’ve been meeting more girls
than I would ever have dreamed possible—and all thanks to my new job. I just never knew how popular I
was until I joined ResNet!

My decision to join ResNet began last week, when word started circulating among my Technology Club friends that the lead
student computer consultant had left due to pro-creative differences. At first, I wasn’t so sure what to think when someone
said I should apply for the position. After all, I’m not exactly a whiz with JAVA, and my knowledge of
C++ is honestly just perfunctory. However, I did take an electronics correspondence course last summer, and once successfully programmed the
first half of a black-and-white Star Trek trivia game on Hypercard. So, I got up the nerve and sent an
application out. And that’s when the girls started rolling in!

I used to get a lot of phone calls from the ladies before. Why, two girls called last Tuesday alone,
one of whom, significantly, was not my mom. But now?

THE YOWL
Your Davidsonian Humor Section

ALSO CONTRIBUTING THIS WEEK
Jeff Yeakel

Students with story suggestions or interested in writing should contact the editor at coeagan@davidson.edu

They're ringing off the hook! Last night I received 14 calls, virtually all from girls! Of course, they don’t call
my phone directly, but the special ResNet hotline, the answering machine of which I am personally responsible for checking. But
it’s basically like they’re calling me. Now, these just aren’t your typical, “how are you doing?” phone calls. No, these
girls are desperate. For me! One might be having a problem with her disk drive. Another can’t seem to get
her AOL Instant Messenger to open. But no fear, maidens. Harvey Bentz is to the rescue! Is it an Ethernet
cable you need plugged in? I can do that. Do you need a virus scan run? I can do that,
too.

And the girls are so appreciative. This one freshman whose e-mail I fixed must have thanked me like ten times,
because she said now she could finally write her boyfriend. She hadn’t written him in three whole days! Can you
believe that? It’s good I got there when I did—or she would have been so thankful she wouldn’t have needed
to keep in touch with her boyfriend anymore, if you catch my drift. Because she'd have been dating me!

Now we all know the ladies just love a guy with a sense of humor. And honestly, I crack them
up. Some might consider those seven to twelve minutes when the D drive is running a preliminary defrag cycle a
little awkward, but not me. No, I like to warm up to the customer with a little Harvey Bentz computer
humor. Because, let’s face it, there are just so many great computer jokes out there. Like hey, do you know
why there was a bug in the computer? He was looking for a byte to eat!Get it? It’s a play
off megabyte. Or how about this: What did the computer call his father? Data! Oh, I wish I could stop.
But you know what they say: you can’t teach a new mouse old clicks! That was another joke. God, do
the girls love those. And you know what’s cute? Sometimes they actually have to ask me to leave, they’re having
so much fun. “Don’t you have other appointments?” they say. “It’s getting pretty late, I guess you really need to
be going,” they say. But I don’t mind at all. Unlike the other guys, Harvey Bentz isn’t just going to
service you and run off afterwards—he’s going to stay and talk! I guess I’m just sensitive like that. So yes,
the social life has been pretty peppy since I joined ResNet. I bet it’s just a matter of time before
one of these girls wants to take the “professional relationship” to another level, if you know what I mean. Can
you say first base? And plus, I still can’t believe I’m working for ResNet. Did you know ResNet is a
subsidiary of ITS? I T freaking S! I don’t have to tell you that’s pretty big. Anyone like “business lunches?!”
Cha-ching! I like this job a lot. I guess it might be that technology and I really do have a
lot in common. After all, you know what they say: Computers are not intelligent. They only think they are!

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004

BRIEFLY

When he is tearindled by otters Wak ask does hot, in fact, sound as much trodke Beane is quick to
point out all of the other obligations he has. “Think about it, there for.” is '21 Year Old Night on
Tuesday, Thirsty Thursday's at the Brickhouse, not to mention all of the other social obligations he has. When asked about
his job search Beane replied, “Well actually I was just going to work at the beach or something this summer,
so I still have plenty of time to figure out the whole job thing. But I tell you what, with
as much Seinfeld as there is on TV these days it’s a miracle I’m able to find time to talk
to people.” Beane’s roommates could not be reached for comment because, as econ majors, they had not been seen outside
of the Belk computer lab in over a month.

- Thomas Anstrom, Senior Staff

Watts up, dude? Stoner accidentally selects Substance-Free living option

By Linpy BALDWIN
Senior Staff

RICHARDSON - Local stoner Philip Peterson ’07 indicated that he was “shocked and really pissed” to discover Wednesday that his
roommate, fellow stoner Jack Alban '07, inadvertently signed the duo up for substance-free housing in the 2004-2005 school year. “We
flipped a coin for it, and Jack lost, so he had to go to the RLO thing,” explained Peterson angrily.
“We clearly agreed that the loser of the coin toss would go and get us a room while the winner
got to stay home and relax.” According to Peterson’s account, he dispatched Alban to lottery night with clear instructions to
get a room down the hill in the sophomore apartments before “relaxing” with several joints of expensive marijuana. “I figured
no one would notice the smell down in Irwin or Akers - not that they've noticed in Rich or anything,”
he explained. But unbeknownst to the trusting Peterson, Alban had in fact spent the afternoon sneaking several joints of his
own, and arrived at lottery night disoriented and extremely hungry. “Look, it wasn’t my fault,” Alban claimed. “I was freaking
starving, and I just wanted to get out of there. I thought Phil told me to get a room up
the hill because the sophomore apartments smelled weird, or something. I don’t know, I was really out of it. Anyway,
I saw there were all of these rooms available in Watts, and a couple of really hot girls picked Watts
right before it was my turn to select our room, so I figured hey, might as well. I didn’t know
it was sub-free!” Alban admitted signing a substance-free housing contract, but claimed that he thought it was “just another Honor
Code thing.” Peterson was not mollified by Alban’s explanation. “Now I have to live an entire freaking year in a
clean, quiet dorm where I won't be able to puke on the floors or stink up the hallway with my
smoking. It sucks, man!” Peterson, a political science major, indicated some interest in suing Alban for breaching their verbal coin-flip
contract, but expressed concern that his February possession arrest might come up at trial.

CPR Dummy
Davidsonian Cartoonist
Sociology Professor Brick Counter
Real-Live Crier
Carolina Inn Bellhop
Chef's Table taste tester
First Belk odor eater
ATC supplicant
- Mark Murray, Senior Staff
Condom Envelope Stapler
Belk Computer Lab Keyboard Disinfector
“Homage to Rodin” Homager
Practice Hurdle for Track Team
Woodrow Wilson Impersonator
Professor evaluation reader
Member of the “17% Club”

Worst Work Study Jobs

Some jobs are just bad. Here are a few.
