8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Restaurant Review
Camille’s and Panera: A Culinary Comparison

By ANDREW SCHAPIRO AND VIRGINIA GREGORY
Restaurant Reviewers

The name Camille’s Sidewalk Cafe brings to mind a chic Parisian establishment. However, we were surprised to find that Camille’s
at Exit 36 is merely one of hundreds spanning the country and does not stand out among the countless chains
popping up all over the area.

The cafe’s interior is neither inventive nor intimate, but it suggests the bright airiness of Southern California. Purple banquettes offset
lampshades of green Perrier bottles and red paper lanterns. The staff pays little attention to the artificial flowers on each
table, but they do a good job of keeping the restaurant clean.

The cafe’s distinguishing mark, its sidewalk eating area, hardly brings to mind cafes along the Champs-Elysees in Paris as we
expected. Rather, standard black metal tables dot a cement patio that is oddly similar to Salsarita’s patio next door. Salsarita’s,
as well as Coldstone ice cream and Caribou Coffee nearby, might be Camille’s biggest asset.

The strip mall is one-stop shopping for a group of people with different palates. Friends could disperse in search of
coffee, a salad, or a burrito and then congregate at one of the outdoor tables to enjoy their meal together.
However, it might make more sense to avoid the Winslow Bay shopping complex altogether and head across Route 150 to
the newly opened Panera Bread.

Both Panera and Camille’s Sidewalk Cafe are chains that started in the Midwest, Panera being nearly fifteen years Camille’s senior.

With its fresh bread baked in-house and competitive prices, Panera plays the part of the more established cafe chain. Its
golden walls glow, high back booths offer privacy, and a crackling fireplace with two large leather chairs inspires indulgence in
comparison to Camille’s immediacy.

Even the menu at Panera tops that of its rival, not in variety of options, but in quality and creativity,
which we found more refined than at Camille’s. While Panera lacks the wraps that dominate Camille’s menu, it is true
to its title as a bakery cafe and sells breads, bagels, and desserts.

“Simplicity and quality of ingredients at Panera result in more consistent, favorable dishes.”

Since Camille’s is a new chain in town, we chose to try what they had to offer compared to their
nearby competitors. A glance at the menu reveals the good news: not only are there over a dozen wraps, but
they also offer paninis, traditional sandwiches, entree salads, breakfast wraps, baked goods, and even smoothies.

The wide selection makes Camille’s a good compromise when you are dining with friends who have trouble agreeing on a
restaurant. Unfortunately, in attempting to offer so many different options, Camille’s sacrifices the quality of the ingredients resulting in food
that is only mediocre.

Two of the wraps that we tried would have greatly benefited from being served hot, and we wished that we
had asked for them to be grilled.

According to the description, the Spicy Chicken Tender Wrap includes bacon, provolone, Romaine lettuce, sprouts, salsa, and ranch dressing wrapped
with chicken tenders in a jalapeno-cheddar tortilla. We never found any evidence of ranch dressing, and the jalapeno-cheddar flavor of
the tortilla was undetectable. The chicken tenders were fairly unimpressive and tasted like the frozen, processed type that you would
buy in the grocery store.

The Poblano Chicken Natu-Wrap boasted a honey-wheat tortilla steamed and stuffed with jasmine rice, grilled chicken, black beans, red onion,
green peppers, cilantro, chives, spinach leaves, and roasted poblano dressing.

The wrap had a tasty, bold flavor when you got a bite that included the “Daredevil BBQ sauce,” but once
again the grilled chicken turned out to be the precooked, frozen strips, and within minutes of arriving at the table,
the rice was cold and chewy.

A healthy standout on the menu was the Veganini, which included grilled eggplant, roasted red peppers, red onions, Feta cheese,
sun-dried tomato pesto, pesto mayonnaise, and a balsamic glaze.

At this point, you might notice the heavy use of sauces, mayonnaises, and dressings, which are ubiquitous in almost all
the wraps. This is another area where in an effort to be creative, Camille’s goes a little too far resulting
in flavors that are hard to distinguish and overly complex. Simplicity and quality of ingredients at Panera result in more
consistent, favorable dishes.

There are other redeeming qualities that should not be discounted. All the wraps are served with fresh, crisp chips and
spicy salsa that tasted homemade.

For the carb conscious, mixed greens with a raspberry vinaigrette can be substituted at no additional charge. Salad lovers are
guaranteed to be satisfied with the large entree salads that include fresh ingredients and a wide variety of dressings such
as sesame Oriental and bacon-tomato.

There are a number of vegetarian options and also quite a few salads that include chicken or tuna salad, grilled
chicken, or deli meat.

Camille’s seems most suited for a casual weekend breakfast as it is one of the only spots in town that
offers breakfast wraps, gourmet coffee drinks, and half a dozen creative smoothies such as Banana Split and Strawberry-Coconut.

Camille’s Sidewalk Cafe
690F Bluefield Road
(by SuperTarget)
Mooresville, NC 20117
704-799-6940

Bright and snazzy inside.

LIVING WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2004

Nails Up & Spa Specials!

Full Set $25
Free Airbrush

Manicure $:

Pedicure $35

Fill in $15

Gel Nails $40
White and Pink

Special deluxe pedicure $40
Waxing available
Walk-ins Welcome

227 Griffith St. (704) 896-6994
Davidson, NC 28036
Mon-Sat 10 am-7:30 pm
Sadler Square Shopping Center
I-77 North, exit 30
