Then and Now
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2004

The modern history of Davidson’s religion requirements
By AMEE PATEL
Managing Editor

The recent Board of Trustees retreat addressed an issue Davidson students, faculty, and trustees have faced time and again: What role do the College’s Presbyterian roots play in this institution today? While the trustee religion requirement has become a controversial topic for many, it can hardly be understood without taking a closer look at the evolution of the College’s religion requirement policies.

The Statement’s Purpose
Serving as the backbone of Davidson’s Constitution, the current Statement of Purpose reads, “Davidson commits itself to a Christian tradition that recognizes God as the source of all truth, and finds in Jesus Christ the revelation of that God, a God bound by no church or creed. The loyalty of the college thus extends beyond the Christian community to the whole human community and necessarily includes openness to and respect for the world’s various religious traditions.”

In 1994, the Trustees approved the current Statement of Purpose, making it the first revision in 32 years. The previous version had read, “Davidson maintains therefore, that a college must be a worshipping as well as a studying community, if it is to nurture the whole person and is to be genuinely Christian.” The primary reason for the revision was the promotion of further openness. During SGA’s study of the revision in 1993, former Professor of Religion Alexander McKelway said, “In general there is a desire that the statement be more explicit about the college’s commitment to inclusiveness. The counterargument to this is to remove from the statement the language that could fairly be considered exclusive.”

For many, Davidson’s ties with the Presbyterian Church are what provide for this inclusiveness and openness to other faiths. Former President John Kuykendall ’59 wrote in the Davidson Journal last year, “...when the Statement of Purpose makes reference to other religious traditions and their commitments, it is neither a charitable afterthought nor some sort of effort to hedge our bets. It is a sincere affirmation of the fact that our particular understanding of the relationship between faith and learning insists that our efforts to discover truth are always inclusive rather than exclusive...”

The Statement of Purpose is the product of decades-long debate and reform on the Christian ties of the College. These debates continue to this day.

Faculty religious requirements cause a stir in the ’60s and ’70s
During the early 1960s, a campus controversy revolved around religious requirements for the faculty. The Bylaws of the Board mandated that all faculty members be affiliated with “some evangelical Protestant church.” In addition, three-fourths of the faculty were required to be members of “some branch of the Presbyterian Church.”

In 1965, the Board of Trustees released a more lax restatement of the Bylaws which asserted that Davidson College would seek “as permanent members of its faculty only those who, in addition to their academic qualifications, are committed to the Christian faith.” During this same year, the Board abolished the “vow” by which all permanent faculty members had to answer three theological questions correctly, thereby asserting their Christian commitment. In the vow’s place, faculty members were to affirm this commitment in writing, in addition to stating their membership to the church and proclaiming their intent to promote the College’s Statement of Purpose.

In 1968, newly-appointed president Samuel Spencer established the “Study Commission on Davidson College’s Church Relationship” to look into the religion requirement’s impact on faculty recruitment. The commission also sought information from deans of other church-affiliated colleges about their religious restrictions. The commission’s 1969 statement recommended “that the formal religious requirements for members of the faculty and administration contained in the Bylaws ... be deleted.” The report also sought greater Christian diversity within the Board of Trustees.

In 1971, the Board agreed to several of the recommendations and lifted many of the faculty religion requirements. Former College president Sam Spencer created a commission to investigate the College’s faculty religion requirement in 1968.

Faculty resolution seeks further revisions to Bylaws
A few requirements remained, however. The revised Bylaws stated, “any Faculty member given tenure must be an active member of a Christian church.” All professors of religion and philosophy-psychology had been dropped earlier - must be “of strong Christian convictions and character.” In 1972, some faculty members took a stand. McKelway wrote in a memo to the faculty, “Dissatisfaction with the requirement appears to be increasing on the...campus, and the tenure of valued faculty is jeopardized by it.” He and 11 other faculty members transmitted a resolution to the Board recommending further revisions to the Bylaws. Part of the recommendation read: “Since this is a college which has a special responsibility to encourage teaching and scholarship within a Christian climate, the President and other officers of the college should make every effort to see that there are effective proponents of the Christian faith on the teaching faculty of the college.

“In order, however, to preserve a healthy and vigorous intellectual life on the campus, no attempt should be made to restrict temporary or permanent appointment to the faculty to those professing a particular religious point of view.”

The Board made further revisions to the Bylaws in 1975. Trustees could “in special circumstances grant tenure to a person who respects the Christian tradition without commitment to all its tenets.” The revision stipulated that such a case would “necessarily be rare.”

Tenure policy: The Linden case of 1977

As the debate over faculty religion requirement came to a close, concern began to focus on the Christian tenure policy. This time the debate attracted national attention. In April 1977, the College revoked a job offer from Dr. Ronald Linden, a Jewish prospective professor and candidate for the Political Science Department, because of his objection to the College’s tenure policy of Christian commitment, which he called “morally repugnant.” A week later, 300 faculty members and students boycotted the Spring Awards Convocation in protest of the Christian Tenure Policy. The story was picked up by The Washington Post and the damaging publicity of the Linden case led to the Board’s revision of the Bylaws later that year. The revision read: “The President is also authorized to recommend for appointment as officers and Faculty members non-Christian persons who can work with respect for the Christian tradition even if they cannot conscientiously join it.”

SGA resolutions, dialogues raise student concerns in the ’90s

Discussion of Davidson’s Christian commitment through religious policies seemed to have died out until the SGA presented a series of resolutions in the early ’90s regarding the issue. One resolution in 1993 encouraged “the Davidson trustees to eliminate Article I Section 4 of the Trustee Bylaws” which required trustees to be “active members of a Christian church.” Another SGA discussion that same year came about after a meeting of the Alumni Association board. During the meeting, it was proposed that the Board of Trustees remove the Christian requirement for Alumni trustees. According to the Bylaws, the Alumni Association can nominate eight people to serve as trustees. The alumni themselves vote on the candidates. Lack of support for such a proposal thwarted any further action, however.

An SGA resolution in 1994 demanded the removal of Christian requirements for another group: professors in the Religion department. David Kaylor, former Chair of the Religion Department said in 1994, “Our purpose is not to propagate the faith ... Religious affiliation is just not a major ingredient.” In 1996, the Board found Bylaw revisions allowing non-Christians to serve in the Religion Department, finding it to be in line with the College’s Statement of Purpose.

A look ahead

The current controversy on the trustee religion requirement promises to continue the College’s long history of discussion and dialogue on the meaning of being a church-related institution. The balancing act of both preserving the College’s Christian tradition and avoiding exclusivity will undoubtedly go on. Yet as President Vagt explained last year in the Davidson Journal, the meaning of being church-related is too important to avoid. “I confess that there are many occasions on which there does appear this seeming conflict and acknowledge that it is not always easy — indeed, often very difficult — to discern that fine line, but we must and we do.”

LEARN TO EAT ITALIAN

Lunch Buffet 7 Days a Week & Dinner A La Carte 7 Days a Week
Take Out • Catering • Wine & Beer • Major Credit Cards Accepted
Located at Shops on the Green
“PANINI” $4.99
Right off of I-77 South at Exit 28
10% OFF with this ad
Right at the second light Monday-Thursday
Next to the Chamber of Commerce
Valid through 3/31/04
(704) 655-9600

FERRUCCI’S OLD TYME ITALIAN MARKET
Shops on the Green • I-77 @ Exit 28
704-896-3190 • www.ferruccis.com