Staff Editorial

Trust necessary for a safe campus

Davidson has always taken an enlightened position with its alcohol policy. While the College certainly does not condone underage drinking,
the administration realizes that college students do drink, and that if we are going to drink it is best to
do so in an open and safe environment. However, as The Davidsonian reports this week, members of Patterson Court houses
have recently complained to Campus Police and the administration of what appears to them to be a stricter enforcement of
the alcohol policy this year.

These complaints are not new. In fact, it seems as if every year we hear students complain about how the
College is trying to crack down on drinking, or even that they are plotting to secretly get rid of fraternities.
While we do not believe the College is purposefully trying to create a stricter policy regarding underage drinking, there is
clearly a feeling among Davidson students, and particularly members of fraternities, that the Campus Police have become too strict in
their enforcement.

According to a recent survey of Davidson students, 26 percent of all students, and 54 percent of students in fraternities,
feel the current enforcement of campus safety policies are too strict. Even if the College is not purposefully re-emphasizing its
enforcement policies, this situation may be a case in which perceptions are just as important as reality. As long as
a large group of students sincerely feel that Campus Safety is out to get them, rather than to protect them,
students will likely start going off campus to party and drink behind closed doors.

These activities are almost certain to result in far more numerous and more serious alcohol-related problems for the college since
students are more likely to drink and drive and to consume alcohol in closed dorm rooms out of the watchful
eyes of others. The most important job for Campus Safety is to make sure students are safe, and they will
never be able to accomplish that mission as long as students fear campus police officers.

Today’s meeting between students, administrators, and Campus Safety is the first step in alleviating this problem. However, it must not
be the only measure taken. Only when a clear and open dialogue between students, administrators, and Campus Safety is both
initiated and maintained can we all reach a mutual understanding, respect, and trust regarding how best to keep Davidson students
safe.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief: David Grow
Managing Editor: Zach Williams
News Editors: Zach Kazior, Adam Martin & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor: Nicholas Carlson
Arts & Living Editors: Andy Martin & Sarah Robinson
Yow! Editor: Brendan
Advertising & Circulation Managers: Se Rous

PERSPECTIVES THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2004

Golf cart theft an honor issue

The Honor Code states, “Each Davidson student is honor bound to refrain from stealing, lying about College business, and cheating
on academic work. Stealing is the intentional taking of any property without right or permission.” Both the Honor Council and
Student Conduct Council have recently discussed the consistency with which we have been considering cases of stealing. If a student
takes a book from the library or a car from the parking lot, both situations could be considered stealing. However,
the taking of golf carts (an unfortunately frequent occurrence on our campus) has been handled as a Code of Responsibility,
not Honor Code, violation.

A recent decision by the Student Conduct Council, which was affirmed by President Vagt, maintains that any taking of property
without right or permission, including the taking of college-owned golf carts, ought to be considered stealing. Therefore, if a student
steals a golf cart, he or she may be charged with an Honor Code Violation. Let me be clear: this
is not a change to the Honor Code. Rather, it is simply an effort to be historically consistent with the
regulations within the Code itself.

Chris Knowles ‘05
Chair, Honor Council

Campus Cops better than others

I would like to respond to Jim Rastetter’s letter in the Nov. 4 Davidsonian regarding the oppression of fraternities, specifically
his repeated in- Letters to the Editors. I was almost amused that he would claim that Campus safety officers use
“Gestapo tactics” when they are only trying to enforce school policy; in my experience officers would much rather leave students
to their reveling if no one is in danger and no one is flagrantly breaking any rules. I would like
to point out that no, a studentmay not “take the Fifth” on campus because this is a private institution and
private property and, thankfully, students are not usually dealing with town police who tend to be much less forgiving of
obnoxious drunken college students. Because of previous incidents involving alcohol and the threat of potential lawsuits from angry parents, the
institution has put into place certain guidelines concerning alcohol. It is not the case, as Rastetter seems to be insinuating,
that Campus Safety is out to get any of us. After meeting several of these officers at the Martin Court
cookout recently, I came to appreciate that these guys really do have our best interest at heart, and if they
are shown respect then they will return the favor. If a student is obviously inebriated and underage or has alcohol
outside the house, then he should be prepared to pay the $25 fine and get a lecture about alcohol abuse—in
the real world underage drinking is not dealt with so leniently.

Margaret Megerian ‘05

When class participation becomes forced

We knew that it would be expected of us. After all, Davidson is a small liberal arts college with a
slim student-to-faculty ratio, and its community-like atmosphere provides us students with access to special one-on-one opportunities 24/7. But when did
forced class participation become so prominent in what college pamphlets often describe as an “enriching” learning environment?

Casie Hermes & Janelle Milanes

Let’s face it: we’ve all been in that scenario. You’re attentive and engaged in class as you furiously scribble notes
onto a piece of looseleaf. All of a sudden, the room is silent; you look up from your desk to
notice 22 pairs of eyes, including the professor’s, staring intently in your direction. Yes, my dear: you’ve just been called
on to answer the question of the day. Now what? You’ll probably stutter for a few seconds, pee yourself, and
answer the question as quickly and as vaguely as possible. After all, you have no idea what the teacher is
asking, and even if you did, you probably have no idea how to answer it.

We’re pretty sure that teachers receive some secret and twisted pleasure from making students look like complete fools as they
squirm in their chairs. Has it ever occurred to professors that some of us don’t participate in class because we
honestly have nothing to say? It’s as if the teacher thinks he’s doing you a grand favor by forcing you
to voice your opinion. Look Mr. Prof, I don’t have anything profound to add to your discussion, and I don’t
know the answers to your incredibly complex questions; frankly, I’m just trying to keep my vomit down after that rousing
round of Beirut last night.

And what about the constant talkers, the students who can’t seem to stop participating? We all have at least one
in our classes; these are the people that teachers pretend not to see the minute they raise their hands. The
people whose voices have become so frequent and grating, they make their presences known in our worst nightmares. As these
talkers spout off their usual and unnecessary rantings during class, we tend to wonder: why has listening become so underrated?
Must we be expected to speak up at all costs because 15 percent of our grade tells us so? We
work hard; we get good grades. Isn’t that enough?

We cannot understand the overachievers who mull over the daily-assigned readings in order to offer pretentious insights that few honestly
care anything about. Perhaps the underachievers like us should thank our lucky stars to have such huge fans of participation
in our midst; after all, they take the ever-present pressures of speaking off of us. However, because of these few,
teachers expect the non-talkers like us to participate frequently and actually enjoy it. When did teachers decide to start shutting
up in order to let students talk? Who are we paying to teach us, anyway? This isn’t the Twilight Zone;
this is college. We want to learn from those who have years of experience in their chosen fields. You know,
the ones with the Ph.D.s—not our peers who hold only high-school diplomas and the false notion that they actually know
what the hell they are talking about.

Don’t get us wrong, we appreciate our professors’ efforts to elicit some genius from the student body, and those “talkers”
do provoke a decent amount of intelligent discussion. All we’re saying is that it’d be nice to hear more from
the experts and less from the peanut gallery.
