Che Davidsonian
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
@ "THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY" @
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2004
First Class U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1 Davidson, NC
VOLUME 96, NUMBER 8

Administration revises Parental Leave policy
By Liz Barry
Senior Staff Writer

Davidson’s Principal Executive Staff revised the Parental Leave policy last month, granting more generous leave time for childbirth and adoption
to staff and faculty members. The new policies are effective as of August 1, 2004. According to Director of Human
Resources Carl Sorenson, “the policy was enhanced in order to be true to our values of promoting family and community.”

In the past, both female and male faculty members with tenure or on a probationary contract were allotted a one-course
reduction during the academic year of the birth or adoption with no reduction in pay. They could drop one additional
course with a 10 percent reduction in pay. The revised policy distinguishes between male and female faculty members, granting mothers
a more liberal leave policy than before. Female faculty members now receive a two-course reduction in course load with no
reduction in pay and the option of dropping an additional course with a 10 percent pay reduction as before. Additionally,
the tenure clock will now automatically be delayed by one year unless the female faculty member requests otherwise and receives
approval from the department and dean. The policies regarding male faculty parental leave remained unchanged.

In accordance with the Family Medical Leave Act, all staff members automatically receive 12 weeks of unpaid parental leave for
the birth or adoption of a child. However, after the revision, non-exempt hourly employees are now eligible for ten days
of paid parental leave in addition to any sick and vacation days they may have accumulated. This change puts them
on a more even starting point as exempt employees, the professional and...

see Leave, page 3

Edelman delivers Convocation address
By LYNIE WHITE
Staff Writer

At Fall Convocation last Saturday, the Davidson College community gathered to listen to Marian Wright Edelman, founder of the Children’s
Defense Fund, the largest children’s advocacy group in Washington, D.C., deliver the convocation address. In addition, five students received awards,
and Dennis Appleyard, James B. Duke Professor of International Studies and Professor and Chair of Economics, was awarded the Thomas
Jefferson Award for exceptional teaching.

In her speech, Edelman spoke primarily about the problems facing America’s children. “Adults are the problem facing children,” she said.
According to Edelman, the lack of attention and participation of adults in their children’s education contributes to problems. Edelman also
said that adults should help to “pull up the moral weeds” of violence and materialism in America.

Edelman invoked former slave and abolitionist Sojourner Truth twice for metaphors regarding the people’s need and ability to change government.
Edelman said that there were “seven weasels” in society that worked against positive change. She spoke of special interest, in...

see Edelman, page 3

The College Republicans, in the balcony of Phi Hall, look across the lawn to the Young Democrats in Eu Hall
during the debate last Saturday.

Political organizations contest key issues in historical debate
By Liz Barry
Senior Staff Writer

With the Presidential election just days away, political fervor heightened on...Campus Saturday evening when the College Republicans and Young Democrats
debated key political issues from the balconies of Philanthropic and Eumenean halls.

The debaters contested issues ranging from education and fiscal policy to stem cell research and foreign affairs. The event’s historic
setting reflected the long-standing tradition of formalized campus debate, dating back to the nineteenth century when members of the Philanthropic
and Eumenean literary societies debated from their respective balconies.

A respectful and enthusiastic audience of students, parents, and community members crowded the lawn between the two halls. Also in
attendance were several high-profile political leaders and reporters from the local channel News 14 Carolina.

“It was very brave of all the students who spoke here today to do this,” said Charlene Barshefsky, former U.S.
Trade Representative and mother of Mari Cohen ’05. “There was a lot of pressure and both sides were very well-prepared.”

Pat McCrory, mayor of Charlotte and uncle of Wilson McCrory ’07, said the arguments from both sides impressed him, even
those contrary to his own political views. “From a political science viewpoint, I thought both sides presented their debates extremely
well and in a very professional way,” he said. “I have a great hope for our students to stand as
future leaders of our country.”

The debate, moderated by Associate Professor of Political Science Pat Sellers, followed a strict format in which each side presented
opening and closing statements, answered eight questions submitted by their opponents, and were allowed no more than three rebuttals.

Young Democrats President Taylor Ansley ’07 opened with remarks that called for a change of leadership, citing what he considered
President Bush’s political shortcomings and Senator Kerry’s leadership strengths. “We are blessed to have a candidate who sees the promise
of a united America and the strength of working with our allies, domestic and international,” he said. “We are blessed
with a candidate who considers the issues carefully and makes decisions based on sound policy, not blind ideology.”

With an opening statement that provided a personal glimpse into the 9/11 terrorist attacks, College Republicans Vice President Jack Hubbard
’06 praised Bush’s solidarity in international and domestic affairs over the past four years. “President Bush led our country in
a clear and decisive manner through very troubling times,” he said. “He has also come to the realization that waiting
for threats to materialize is no longer an option in a post-9/11 world.”

Amid passionate and forceful examination of the issues at hand were lighter moments, which prompted chuckles from many audience members.
College Republicans President Joseph Adams ’06 made jest of an elaborately framed question on homeland security that included five sub-questions.
“I’m glad to see that we got to ask eight questions and the Young Democrats got to ask 8,000 questions,”
he said.

The students’ powerful concluding remarks illuminated the themes that resonated throughout the debate. Gagan Gupta ’07, representing the Young Democrats,
said that Kerry is the leader most qualified to protect America at home and restore our credibility abroad.

See Debate, page 3

NEWS: Election Guide 2004
DECISION
A final point/counterpoint before the election
PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 11
SEE PAGE 5
Football problems go beyond the field - SPORTS, PAGE 12
