THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS
’Cats rebound in home finale after Elon loss

By Erin DELK
Senior Staff Writer

The women’s basketball team had an interesting week of play, losing 55-53 to fifth-place Elon Saturday afternoon and bouncing back with a convincing 59-45 win over second-place UNC Greensboro last night.

Saturday was senior day for the ’Cats, and for the last time on their home court, Ashley Hallsted, Courtney Laird, Robyn Flewelling, Meghan Bryant, and Lindsay Shade all started the game together. Unfortunately, the excitement for the seniors did not carry over into the game.

The first half was disappointing for both teams, as Davidson was a miserable 2-6 from the free throw line and Elon managed to score only 19 points in the half. Play picked up after the break, and Elon took the lead early in the second half.

The Wildcats responded, as Hallsted, Shade, and Janell Crayton ’06 turned up the offensive intensity to give Davidson a 48-43 lead with 8:23 left in the game. The Wildcat offense then hit a brick wall, though, and the ’Cats did not score from the floor for another eight minutes, nearly the rest of the game.

Elon slowly chipped away at Davidson’s lead, with the help of excessive fouls from Davidson players. The Phoenix went to the free throw line 25 times in the second half, compared to Davidson’s seven.

Elon tied the game at 50 all with 1:30 remaining; poor shot choices and more fouling by Davidson in the next several possessions gave Elon a four-point lead with 29 seconds left. Emily Callahan ’05 responded with a huge three-pointer that brought the ’Cats to within one.

A quick foul by Davidson resulted in Elon making 1-2 free throw attempts and gave Davidson back the ball with 17 seconds left and a chance to win. Hallsted had a nice drive into the paint, but her shot was just off the mark. The rebound came back to Davidson, but no one could get a decent shot up before time expired.

The loss moved Elon one game ahead of Davidson in the Southern Conference standings. Any signs of the heart-breaking loss and the three-game losing streak had disappeared by Tuesday night, though, as the Wildcats dominated UNC-G for most of the first half.

Greensboro did not hit a field goal for the first 14 minutes, getting points only from the free throw line. Davidson applied stifling full-court pressure, worked the ball around, hit the boards, and forced Greensboro to play scared and on their heels.

The Spartans had three traveling violations within the first six minutes. By the 8:40 mark, the score was 23-2. UNC-G eventually realized it needed to get out of its zone, and upon switching to a man-to-man defense, kept the ’Cats scoreless for the next seven minutes.

By the time Davidson finally did score from the floor, the Spartans had crept to within eight, and they cut the lead to five at halftime, 28-23.

UNC-G stayed in man for the second half and forced Davidson to take quick shots, while making the ’Cats play defense for the full 30 seconds on the other end. Greensboro got to within three, 30-27, at the 16-minute mark, but Davidson regained their composure and slowly pulled away for the convincing win.

The Wildcats now travel to Wofford for a Saturday afternoon tip-off time of 3 p.m.

Emily Callahan ’05 demonstrates picturesque form on her jumper.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2004

Jennie Tuttle ’07 began her Davidson career last Friday.

from Lacrosse, page 16

The attitude of the team has been wonderful throughout the preseason workouts,” said head coach Mary Schwartz. “This is a cohesive group and we’re ready to get the season underway.”

New assistant coach Heather Bliss has been a valuable asset. Earning first All-American women’s lacrosse honors as only a freshman for the Huskies, she graduated from the University of Connecticut in 2003. Elected captain of UConn’s team her senior year, she led the Huskies to their first national ranking in lacrosse. A mid-fielder, she helps both the offense and defense, working extensively on transition throughout the field. Bliss quickly gained the respect of the team this fall.

The ’Cats’ season opener, originally scheduled for yesterday, will be played today at 5 p.m. vs. Pfeiffer. The team has a string of three home games before Spring Break, with Northwestern on Friday and John Hopkins (#20) on February 27, both conference games. Over break the team will travel to New England to play three more games: two in Fairfield, CT, and one against Penn State (#10) on March 6.

February 23
February 27
March 9
March 16
March 16
March 22
March 23
March 26
March 31
April 7

Residence Life Office LOTTERY

IMPORTANT DATES YOU SHOULD KNOW

Lottery numbers available online at

http://www.davidson.edu/administrative/residencelife/lottery/index.html

Deadline for Special Housing Applications

Mandatory meeting for Off-Campus Permission - 7:30 PM Sprinkle Room

(Applications will be available)

5 person apartment applications due by 12 PM at RLO

5 Person apartment Selection - 6:00 PM Sprinkle Room

4 person Apartments applications due by 12 PM at RLO
4 person Apartment Selection - 6:00 PM 900 Room
Off-campus applications due by 12 PM at RLO

Single & Triple Room Selections - 6:00 PM Chambers Gallery
Doubles & Suites Lottery Night - 6:00-??

Any Questions???
Residence Life Office

Chambers Gallery

894-2188