THE DAVIDSONIAN _ SPORTS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2004

'Cats lose two starters, four straight heading into SoCon

By Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

Shortly after their exciting win over Wofford on Senior Day, capped by senior Jonathan Britt’s remarkable 14-12 win in a
third-set tiebreaker, the men’s tennis team received their second big blow of the season. Less than a week after losing
their number two player, Donald Miles ’05, for the season, the ’Cats learned that they would be playing without Britt
as well. After injuring his knee in the closing moments of his Senior Day victory, Britt and the team got
word several days later that he would be out for the rest of the season.

With four matches remaining and a slew of talented young players ready to step into the lineup, the Wildcats maintained
their focus despite the disappointment of losing yet another strong starter. While they emerged from the four away matches since
with a 0-4 record, the ’Cats had some reassuringly good efforts and contributions from their young players, especially in doubles,
who were forced to grow into their new roles fairly quickly. While their young lineup is vastly inexperienced, the team
is poised to give their opponents in the upcoming Southern Conference tournament everything they can handle.

The team began its four-match swing at UNC-Charlotte, where they came within one doubles match of earning the victory, falling
4-3. Only Rob Haywood ’04 and Russ Burns ’05 won for the Wildcats in the doubles matches, posting an 8-5
victory at the top position. The two teams split the singles matches, each winning three, but this result left Davidson
on the losing end. While disappointing, the loss featured strong play at the five and six positions, respectively, from two
of the team’s rookies—Daniel Bermeo ’06 and John Bolton ’07—who earned two of the team’s three singles wins.

The next stop for Davidson was Johnson City, Tennessee, home of East Tennessee State University, the SoCon’s best team this
year and the 69th-ranked team in the nation. The Wildcats came close to gaining the early 1-0 advantage by pushing
the Mocs to the limit in the doubles matches. Ultimately, though, the ’Cats lost all three, two of which were
tiebreakers. The singles matches were not nearly as close, as ETSU won all six in straight sets, without any player
losing more than seven games. “We played pretty well in the doubles, and we had a chance at getting the
doubles point,” said head coach Jeff Frank. “But singles-wise, they’re an excellent team. They have probably the six best guys
in the conference in their lineup.”

The Wildcats returned to North Carolina for their next match at UNC-Greensboro. The prognosis looked promising after the doubles matches,
in which the ’Cats won at the two and three positions to get the doubles point and the early lead.
Davidson was unable to maintain its momentum in singles, however, earning victories only at positions two and four. These came
courtesy of Bryan Stonestreet ’04 and Porus Jetli ’07, respectively, who each won in three sets. After the 4-3 loss
to Greensboro, Appalachian State remained the only match left in the regular season for the Wildcats. Davidson once again got
out to a great start by winning matches two and three in the doubles competition for the 1-0 lead. “The
highlight of this match was how quickly our [makeshift] doubles teams have come together,” said Frank. The ’Cats’ singles performances
against Appalachian State, though, were even more disappointing than those against Greensboro. Stonestreet won again at the number two slot,
but he was the lone singles victory for the Wildcats on the afternoon, leaving Davidson on the short end of
the 5-2 final margin. “In singles, we just haven’t stepped up,” observed Frank. “We’re struggling in our new positions. [Our
young guys] are capable of beating the guys they’re playing, but they just don’t have the experience yet.”

The Wildcats have drawn the ninth seed for the upcoming SoCon tournament this weekend, and they will square off against
UNC-Greensboro in their first match. The ’Cats’ doubles teams have been getting the job done lately, so the decisive factor
against Greensboro will be Davidson’s singles performances. “We should have no pressure on us, having just lost to them 4-3
last week,” said Frank. “It’s very difficult for a team to repeat a 4-3 win in back-to-back weeks.” Should the
Wildcats advance past Greensboro, they would face conference heavyweight and top seed East Tennessee State in the quarterfinals, a team
that Frank calls “by far the best team in the conference.” Important to remember in the team’s recent results is
their young and inexperienced lineup resulting from the injuries to Miles and Britt. The ’Cats’ recent tight matches—aside from ETSU—demonstrate
their fighting mentality and the talent of their young players. “We only lost 3-4 [or 2-5] in three of our
last four matches even after losing two players,” said Frank. “That says something.”

By JACKSON HERLONG
Staff Writer

The Southern Conference Golf tournament started in a very promising fashion for the Wildcats, but their level of play dropped
off a bit on the last day as they dropped three spots in the rankings. After spending both of the
first two days in ties for third place, the Wildcats’ third-day total of 303 dropped them into a tie for
sixth, certainly not a bad result, but disappointing after holding third for two days. The 54-hole tournament hosted by East
Tennessee State at the Ridges Golf and Country Club in Jonesboro, Tennessee was a test of endurance as much as
skill, and the Wildcats showed that they have a good amount of both. After the first day, the ’Cats sat
tied with defending tournament champion Georgia Southern at third place, 12 strokes behind first-place Furman University. On the day, the
Wildcats were led by sophomore Christian Davis’s one-under 71, followed by Tim Dillon ’06 and Steve Mayo ’07 with identical
rounds of three-over 74. Davis’sFirst-round score left him tied for fourth place. The team’s play remained consistent through the second
day, keeping them in a tie for third place. This time Davidson was led by Mayo’s round of 73, strengthening
his case for conference freshman of the year. Davis shot a second-day score of 77, landing him immediately behind the
ninth-place Mayo at 10th on the leaderboards. Dillon shot a 75 to complement his first round 74 for 12th place
overall. On the third and final day, the team struggled. Mayo and Dillon shot respective rounds of 78 and 76,
tying them both at 16th place, Davidson’s highest individual finishes of the tournament. Furman ended up winning in a runaway,
14 strokes better than Georgia Southern and UNC Greensboro, who tied for second. Alex Knoll ’07 had the best score
for the Wildcats on the final day, shooting a 74 to tie for 41st overall. Peyton Gallagher ’05 shot a
final round of 75 to claim the 28th individual spot after showing steady improvement over his first two rounds of
78 and 76. Davidson finished with an overall score of 900 over 54 holes, tying them with the Wofford Terriers
for sixth place in the conference out of the 12 teams competing. “Although we didn’t really play our best golf
on the first two days of the tournament, we were still right in there,” said Dillon afterward. “If we had
put some good numbers together on the last day, we would have had a great chance to win the tournament.”
With all of Davidson’s top finishers returning next year, their chances in 2005 look to be even better.

Track finishes with mixed results at UNCC and Elon
By AUSTIN MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

Over the past few weekends, the track teams ran at UNC-Charlotte and Elon University. At both meets, there were some
races worth remembering and others that are best forgotten. April 10 was the day of the Charlotte Invitational. In the
Men’s 3,000-meter run, Ben Gaspar ’04 used a strong last mile to finish in 4th place, setting a new personal
best of 8:40.88. His time was the third-fastest in Davidson history for 3,000. Carissa Skrivanek ’06 was the first female
to finish the 3K, crossing the line in 10:49.19. In the 1500, Greg Scott ’04 blazed his final lap to
secure a second-place finish. His time (3:55.93) is the fourth-fastest in the conference this year. On the women’s side, Allie
Martin ’06 and Ashley Griffith ’05 once again finished one right after the other. Martin was the first on the
team to finish, in 4:54.19. Griffith was next across the line with a time of 4:56.36. The men’s 800 was
the most exciting race for the Wildcats. Douglas Noreen ’07 looked relaxed as he finished the first lap in the
middle of the pack. He then put on a quick burst that broke the race apart, stringing out the runners
as they scrambled to hold his pace. Noreen quickly put a two-second gap on the next runner with a sizeable
gap on the rest of the field as he reached the home stretch. His form began to fall apart, but
he managed to hold on to his lead. Noreen won his heat, set the fastest time in the Southern Conference
for the 800, and ran the second-fastest time in school history. For the women, Martin doubled back and ran the
800 as well as her earlier 1500. She ran to a season-best time of 2:21.79. At the Elon University Invitational,
David Ritchie ’07 had a spectacular day, running 49.10 for 400 and 55.97 for the 400-meter hurdles. Ritchie’s 400 hurdle
time (55.97) is the fourth fastest in the Southern Conference this year, and his 400-meter time (49.10) is the fastest
400 meters run by a Davidson student in almost 30 years. The men and women of the track and field
team will be competing at the only home meet of the year, the Irwin Belk Invitational, this Saturday. It will
be the last track meet before the Southern Conference Championships.

From Firsts, page 12

was exactly what we wanted to see from a man who has finished in the top-three at eight Majors. We’ve
all come to embrace Mickelson because he’s just like one of us—susceptible to failure, but never wavering in a quest
for greatness, no matter how big or small. Despite his insane ability with a golf club, Mickelson has never assumed
the holier-than-thou attitude so many athletes thrive on these days. During the awards ceremony, Phil—as he is known to all
golf fans—was more giddy than an 18-year-old on prom night. And when he finally put on that green jacket, we
smiled with him.

From one man who just tasted victory, to another seeking his first professional championship... Alex Rodriguez will tell you that
in December he was prepared to end the Curse of the Bambino in Boston, a city with not only a
monkey on its back, but also an entire Nation of wicked angry Chowder-Heads hopped up on Sam Adams. As so
often happens, though, the BoSox played Wile E. Coyote to the Yankees’ Road Runner, and just before getting trapped by
Boston, New York sped off with A-Rod to the Evil Empire. And so now, A-Rod readily acknowledges that he is
Public Enemy No. 1 in Beantown, and this past Friday the reigning A.L. MVP made his first appearance in Fenway
Park wearing Pinstripes. Much to the delight of Red Sox Nation, A-Rod went 0-for-4 and couldn’t even get the ball
out of the infield, as the Yankees lost 6-2 in the series opener. Boston went on to take three of
four from New York, and A-Rod went 1-for-17 with six strikeouts, effectively assuming the moniker K-Rod. But, hey, at least
the guy got his first hit, right? With all that behind them, Sox fans hope to experience a first of
their own this season, as they anxiously await the day the Curse comes to its first—and only—happy ending.
