THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

All eyes on the Middle East

DCPC lecture series focuses monthlong attention on the troubled region

ADAM MARTIN
Staff Writer

A series of four speakers on the conflicts in the Middle East features the Rev. Dr. Fahed Abu-Akel, the first
native Arab moderator of the Presbyterian Church, USA (PCUSA), this Monday evening in Tyler-Tallman Hall at 7:30.

Rev. Abu-Akel’s visit and this week’s series, sponsored jointly by Davidson College Presbyterian Church and Davidson College, begin an extended
look on campus at the perennial conflicts grounded in the Middle East.

However, the series identifies social groups usually unnoticed by the media who are involved in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, including Palestinian
Christians and members of the Israeli military against the occupation of Palestinian territories.

Last night Rabbi Jeremy Barrias, adjunct Davidson chaplain and Associate Rabbi of Temple Bethel, spoke about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict from
the perspective of a Reformed Jewish-American.

Tonight Major Stav Adivi of the Israeli military will share his views on Israeli treatment of the Palestinians.

Adivi grew up in Israel, has served in the Israeli army for the last 27 years (since 18 years of
age), and is a self-identified Zionist.

He is also one of the highest-ranking officers among over 500 Israeli soldiers who have refused to serve in the
occupied territories and have joined the organization Ometz L’Sarev (Courage to Refuse).

Next Wednesday former Ambassador Jack Perry will sift through the major issues in the broader context of the entire Middle
East. Ambassador Perry was the first director of Davidson’s Dean Rusk programs.

The series highlights Rev. Dr. Fahed Abu-Akel, a Palestinian Christian and former moderator of the PCUSA.

Born in Palestine in 1944, before the declaration of Israeli statehood, Fahed Abu-Akel’s family (except his mother) left their home
to avoid harm during the Israeli war of independence.

He came to the United States at age 22 for formal education, attending college and seminary and eventually getting his
Doctorate of Ministry from McCormick Theological Seminary.

The highest level of organization in the Presbyterian Church USA is the General Assembly (GA). It is comprised of representatives
from around the world, convenes annually, determines PCUSA polity, and organizes Church committees, missions, and activity around the world.

In 2003, after years of service to the PCUSA, Rev. Abu-Akel was elected to serve as moderator, the highest position
in the GA, whose term lasts one year.

On Sunday, Rev. Abu-Akel will preach at both DCPC services and lead the combined adult Sunday school classes in considering
potential solutions for the conflict, with a lesson entitled “Four Options for the Solution of the Palestinian-Israeli Conflict.”

He will also meet with the Presbyterian Westminster Fellowship at 5:30 that evening at DCPC.

Monday afternoon, Rev. Abu-Akel will lead a round-table discussion in the Union with students on the topic “Faith & the
Faiths: Religion, Conflict & Reconciliation.”

Later on Monday at 7:30, he will deliver a public lecture specifically on “Palestinian Arab Christians in the Middle-East Conflict”
in Tyler-Tallman Hall.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2004

Witness Season focus on the Middle East
