CAMERON SCHOOL

LANE OF BUSINESS

Master of Science in Accountancy
Have you thought about a career in public accounting, corporate accounting, or management consulting? Do you want to be a
CPA?

All undergraduate majors welcome. Our 10-month, full-time MSA program begins in August. We offer an excellent teaching faculty, smaller classes,
lower tuition, and excellent financial assistance opportunities. Cameron School of Business is accredited by AACSB. Applications are due April 1;
early applications are encouraged.

All major accounting firms recruit at UNCW. For information, come to the Davidson College September Career Fair or contact Kathy
Erickson at 910-962-3903 or ericksonk@uncw.edu.

An EEO/AA institution

NEWS

Jeffries, from page 1

him to interact with a wide variety of Davidson students over the years. He values this aspect of his job
the most.

“I enjoy the relationships I form with students and the opportunity to see students develop in this setting,” Jeffries said.
“I’ve been able to form a lot of relationships, and I am still in close contact with students from my
first class in 1996.”

Jeffries’ desire to connect with the people in his life carries over to his role as pastor.

“He speaks to everyone he knows, and many times it is a student, faculty member, or one of his friends
who speaks to him first,” said Byron Miller '08, who regularly attends Gethsemane Baptist Church. “He is approachable and genuinely
cares for those around him. The most important quality of his personality is demonstrated in his character. He lives what
he preaches.”

Jeffries has served as a minister for ten years; before becoming head pastor, he was an associate pastor for eight
years at churches in Asheville and Charlotte. He came to Gethsemane in March.

“After being in the ministry for ten years, I came to realize it was something I was called to do,”
Jeffries said. “I’d been very involved in church all my life.”

Church services at Gethsemane contain hymn singing, scripture reading, pastoral reflections, and a sermon. Jeffries described the services as “pretty
lively” and stressed the significant student turnout since the beginning of the semester.

“A typical church service with Dean Jeffries is upbeat, down to earth, with a positive message that can be taken
from each sermon,” said Jarrod Blue ’08, another member of the Gethsemane congregation.

“The church is always half full, but by the time the service is over it seems as if the church
is full because of the warm feeling you leave with.”

Jeffries believes that his job at Davidson College and his job at Gethsemane complement each other.

“Both positions are about developing people. I do consider my job here as being somewhat pastoral. I try to help
uplift students and develop them to be the best they can be. I do the same in church, so they
can be the same inspiration to someone else,” Jeffries said.

Gethsemane Baptist Church is located on Jetton Street in Davidson. Sunday services are held at 11:00 a.m.

Jeffries takes the role of the pastor at Gethsemane Baptist Church.
