9 THE DAVIDSONIAN

TODAY'S NEWS

Bicycle borrowed
SEE PAGE 5

New Commons punch machine proves unpopular
SEE PAGE 5

Girl sends text message while dancing
SEE PAGE 7

Political Science professor sick of being asked his opinion on the election
SEE PAGE 13

UBI ORTA OWL? UBERTAS

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2004

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

The Yowl: Keeping it real since last January

November 4, 2004

The Davidsonian

College Republicans and Young Democrats debate differences in Davidson’s famed Pit of Snakes

After two close, well-fought debates, the College Republicans and Young Democrats were prepared to settle the score once and for
all. This time, however, the debate format was not a simple shouting contest between Eu and Phi halls but rather
a wrestling match in Davidson’s pit of snakes.

Regarding the bout, College Republican Joseph Robertson ’06 said, “I didn’t even know we had a pit of snakes until
last week. Otherwise, we might have had all the debates in there.” Remarkably few students are aware of the existence
of the pit of snakes, recently dedicated as the Tomlinson Pit of Snakes. The Pit was used mostly in Davidson's
early years to persecute suspected witches, warlocks, and various forms of heathens. It was first used for political arguments in
the election of 1854, when the Davidson Whigs challenged the Democratic Republicans to a tag-team wrestling match with the Free
Soilers and the Know-Nothings. The Pit was used for the political debates for the next forty years, until it was
declared to be too dangerous for students. The precursor to RLO continued to use it up to 1904 for the
Freshman Olympics, at which point it was retired completely from Davidson activities.

According to experts, while in the Pit, it is best not to make sudden movements.

Filled with copperheads, rattlers, and king cobras, the Pit of Snakes is located beneath the Sparrow's Nest facility next to
the laundry. Ten feet deep and filled with approximately...

You know you're from Texas if...

Now last weekend I took some flack for my Halloween costume. Some people said that my giant Texas costume was
the worst they’d ever seen. I gotta ask, what’s wrong with a giant cardboard cutout of the best state in
the Union? I got so riled up by this, I just had to write this article, to prove to everyone
once and for all that Texas is the best state there is, was, or ever will be. There ain’t no
competition. No wuss states can even sniff our pickup truck exhaust.

First of all, we have so much more state pride than all the rest of y'all. I haven’t seen a
single flag from any other state, except for that South Carolina flag with the palm tree. I mean, heck, we
were the only state that was once a sovereign nation. If we didn’t feel so badly for all the other
weaker states, we’d secede and be the best nation in the western hemisphere, naw, the whole world! Everyone who doesn’t
live there, sure wishes they did, that’s for sure. If I wasn’t born there, I’d have moved there as darn
fast as I could have.

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Humor Section

Vorep Naber: Nate Bradshaw
Bobby Kenner

SENIOR STAFF WRITER: Jeff Yeakel

Editor: Brendan Parets

Students with story suggestions or interested in writing should contact the editor at brparets@davidson.edu

Note: If you haven't been living in a cave for the past six months, then you should know that the
Yowl is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

Bill Fields ‘06

Texan

I mean, who doesn’t wish they could have a giant Texas flag flying in their room, car window, and courthouse,
or printed on their t-shirts, coffee mugs, playing cards, or guitar cases. My friend Jim even has a Texas flag
tattooed on his lower back. Now that’s state pride, my friend, and it’s something all the other weaker states just
ain’t got. I also got my Texas map, commemorative Texas mug, University of Texas banner, and my favorite pair of
cowboy boots all in my room. It’s like my daddy used to say, “Always keep yer ‘kerchief tied, yer boots
laced, and yer head up.”

In Texas, we not only have pride, but also got respect. That’s something all the yankee states need to learn
a thing or two about. We know how to treat a lady. And although we wear cowboy hats all the
time, we always remove it when greeting a lady, standing for the national anthem, or when a funeral passes by.
When someone puts a good lock on their grain silo, you know that means keep out. We don’t need a
farmer with a shotgun to tell us not to go on his property. We don’t mess with others, just like
others shouldn’t mess with Texas.

Let me tell you something else: our sports teams are better than anyone’s. Whether it’s the Astros, the Rockets, Mavericks,
Rangers, Texans, or our beloved Dallas Cowboys, we love our professional sports teams. I watch every game that they play,
especially in the playoffs. And, don’t get started on our colleges. Whether you're a UT fan, an A&M fan, a
Baylor fan, a Texas Tech fan, or even a TCU fan, we have something for everybody. Me, I like all
of them, cause they’re from Texas, and I got so much Texas pride. Hook ‘em horns or Howdy Damn It!
It doesn’t matter which.One you want to say, as long as it’s from Texas, I’ll respect it. Everything is bigger
in Texas. Our steaks are bigger. Our cities are bigger. Our cars are bigger. Our farms are bigger. Our Wal-Marts
are bigger. Heck, even our women are better looking. People are generally nicer folk. There’s sweet tea served at every
meal. Now, there may be sweet tea served here, but it’s not as good. See, that’s the difference! Even if
we do the same stuff, we do it bigger and better. It’s like country music. We love our country music,
especially our Texans like Pat Green. Pretty much, nothing anywhere else is as good as something from Texas. Take barbeque
for example. In Texas, our barbeque is the world’s best. Whether it’s our Texas-style barbeque sauce or our top-grade cattle,
this junk in North Carolina doesn’t even compare. Fishing ain’t fishing unless you are doing it in Texas. It ain’t
hunting if it ain’t in West Texas. All in all, everything’s better in Texas. From El Paso to Beaumont, Texas
has got anything you’d ever need.

Approximately five hundred snakes, the Pit was known as the best of its kind in the Southeast up until its
abandonment. Physical plant worker Ronnie Powers was in charge of preparing the area for the debate. “The Pit hadn’t been
used in over a hundred years. We kept it up by throwing a goat in there every third Tuesday, but
for the most part, those snakes were just left alone in their pit. I’m sure they were looking forward to
getting back into action.” Within the first two minutes of the wrestling match/debate, 31 students had been bitten. The debate
in the Pit quickly ended with the arrival of the ambulances but continued in the halls of the emergency room
at Lake Norman Hospital. Over 40 Young Democrats and College Republicans were treated, but not everyone viewed the match as
a complete waste. “I'd do anything to get Kerry’s new message for America out to the public. The sharp pain
in my ankle only further reminds me of the pain I will feel if Bush is re-elected for another term.
And that is a pain that no venom kit will be able to treat,” said Young Democrat David Wright ’07.
Davidson College has suspended use of the Pit of Snakes while they form a committee to investigate its safety. Petition
tables for “Save the Pit” have already sprung up in front of Chambers building.

Presidential election discussed in physics class

In the frenzied last days of election season, the fever over the presidency reached a head in all aspects of
college life. Normally, the classroom would be a most appropriate and expected venue for discussion of politics. Professor Alicia Marsden,
however, is accused of having taken her politics into the classroom. Marsden, the McDougal Professor of Physics, mentioned the election
at the beginning of class on Friday, after overhearing several students talking about their opinions. When class began, she instructed
the class to vote and then asked them what they thought about the upcoming election. After the initial response, she
began to express her own thoughts on the current political scene. “She said that we were a little ahead on
the syllabus and could take time to discuss politics for a few minutes,” Carl Warrick ’07 recalled. However, Marsden’s supposed
“few minutes” turned into the entire fifty-minute class period. Warrick said, “She started off on the war on terror, obviously
because of the whole al-Jazeera tape from bin Laden and the attention it has drawn to the fact that he’s
still out there.” The conversation then moved to the explanations for the Iraq war, and whether or not Bush lied
about the weapons of mass destruction. Marsden then went on to discuss how the war in Iraq has been handled,
focusing on the 377 tons of explosives that are apparently missing. “She wrote 377 on the board and underlined it
several times as she was talking,” Hicks reported. Covering Healthcare, Social Security, taxes, and the deficit in similar fashion, Marsden
took up her entire class looking at the issues surrounding the election on Tuesday. Jenny Peters ’06, “It was pretty
obvious that she was liberal. Every time somebody would make a pro-Bush comment, she would try to rebut it. Personally,
I stayed out of it because I want a good grade in this class. I know some people in the
class who are definitely Republican pretended that they were liberals to win points.” When at the end of class, a
student asked what all of the political discussion had to do with Bernoulli’s curves of quickest ascent. In reply, Marsden
attested that physics and the election have many similarities, and are actually quite related. Marsden stated, “I have a right
to run my class as I see fit. This is supposed to be a liberal arts school, isn’t it? Aren’t
we supposed to be teaching students about what’s right and wrong beyond calculus-related physics? I believe that I did those
students a service by informing them about the issues and where the President and Senator Kerry stand. That’s going to
be more useful to them on Tuesday than Bernoulli and airplanes.”

The Yowl apologizes for a typographical error in last week’s issue. The headline that read “Field Hockey Team tries really,
really hard,” should have read: “Field Hockey Team is one awesome group of talented young women!” Thank you for your
understanding.
