12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

For you sports fans...

DNOOKIE'S PICKS

The (ole WAI Wildcat game of the week

Men’s Basketball vs. No. 12 Duke
ESPN 2
November 22, 7:00 PM ET
Charlotte Coliseum

This is our greatest opportunity all year to play on the big stage of major college athletics. Duke basketball is
the best college sports program in the country, and we get to battle them at home this year (well, down
the road in Charlotte). It’s hard for a student body of only 1,600 to fill up the student section, much
less the 23,000-seat Coliseum; even so, we should try to be as wild as possible behind the bucket. Can we
play David to Duke’s Goliath? If you can’t make it to the game, catch it on ESPN 2.

Michael Vick is a game worth watching,

SPORTS
By Wilson McCrory
Sports Editor

On paper, the Wildcats are completely outmanned in their upcoming match-up with preseason No. 11 Duke at the Charlotte Coliseum
next Monday night. Duke features a high school All-American at every position, J.J. Redick and Shelden Williams are on the
preseason Wooden list for college basketball’s player of the year award, and Coach K is one of the best coaches
to ever man a college bench—he will likely break former North Carolina coach Dean Smith’s record of 879 career NCAA
wins in a few more seasons.

Last year when Davidson traveled up to Durham, the Wildcats were humbled by the ACC power 88-54, succumbing to Duke’s
signature pressure defense and a barrage of three-pointers by Redick and Co after holding close for the first ten minutes
of the game. While Davidson returns the same nucleus that had a strong second-half run in the 2003-04 season and
is now picked as one of this season’s best teams in the Southern Conference, it will seemingly take a miracle
for the Wildcats to keep it close with the Final Four team from a year ago. It seems so long
ago that Davidson traveled up to Chapel Hill and defeated the nationally-ranked Tar Heels from the ACC, 58-54. In all
reality, it will take at least a small miracle for Davidson to stay close with the Blue Devils, but Davidson
does have a much better shot of hanging with Duke in this year’s rematch. Here is what to look for
if Davidson hopes to stay close this time around.

Control the pace of play: Last year, Davidson became unraveled early in the second half of play against the Blue
Devils in the face of Duke’s stifling defense. Davidson struggled to get the ball up court, leading to 22 turnovers
that resulted in 37 Blue Devil points on the scoreboard. Kenny Grant ’06, who was still breaking into the Davidson
line-up in his first year of action with the Wildcats, finally provided some stability at the point, though, as he
registered six points, five assists, and most importantly no turnovers against the Blue Devils. With a full year of play
in the Davidson system, Grant will have to provide a similar performance this year if the Wildcats are to keep
it close. Davidson also cannot let this game become a run-and-shoot affair, as Duke has too many athletes and too
much depth in the backcourt to run with them all game long.

Get the ball to Johnson: Southpaw Ian Johnson ’06 apparently has

see McCrory, page 13

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Senior Staff Columnist

Some people hate hockey. Some people also hate puppies, sunsets and that feeling you get when you walk into Commons
and realize they’re serving chicken parm (mmm, chicken parm). I love hockey—always have and always will. Growing up in New
England, you cannot help but fall head over heels (often literally) for the game. For me, it all began around
age five, when my dad took me down to the local ‘Learn To Skate’ where I pushed a chair around
in circles for hours on end. Actually, that part of hockey sucked. Then, once leagues started, we’d wake up at
4 a.m. for a 45-minute drive to HockeyTown in Saugus, Mass.—a rink forsaken by the asbestos removal companies—where we even
played on Christmas Eve, Easter, and various other holidays that somehow do not warrant a day off in the world
of Massachusetts youth hockey. So I guess that aspect of hockey wasn’t that sweet either. In high school, we only
had one rink for four teams, so practices varied from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m., depriving you of sleep, socializing
and, ultimately, a normal life. Once again, not cool. What’s worse, equipment is prohibitively expensive, you always reek—chicks do not
dig guys who reek—and unless your legs are the size of tree trunks (mine more closely re-Here is the cleaned
OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

semble ski-poles) you have no shot at college hockey, the mecca for anyone born above the 40th parallel. At this
point in the article—if not earlier—you probably have begun questioning the sanity of any kid who ever laced up a
pair of Bauer 3000’s or Graf 707 Supra’s. But there’s something about cutting through a fresh sheet of ice on
recently sharpened skates, the weight of the puck against your blade and the cold air forcing your eyes to tear
up that keeps you coming back for more. Like so many addictions, you can’t just quit hockey cold turkey. And
so, during my time down here, I have turned to roller hockey for my fix. Of course, that’s like Cheech
and Chong turning to tobacco and O’Douls, but for the past couple years ESPN, with its regular NHL broadcasts, has
been my shoulder to cry on, helping me avoid the dismal abyss known as the NBA. Sadly, just over two
months ago the NHL’s collective bargaining agreement expired, allowing commissioner Gary Bettman and the league’s 30 owners to lock out
players until a new agreement could be reached. Most pundits do not expect the new agreement to emerge until well
after Punxsutawney Phil surfaces in early February. Translation: no NHL season. Only about five of you can possibly fathom what
that means for hockey fans. Look, I love Davidson basketball as much as the next guy and I’m one of
the few people who can say I’d watch an amateur game over a professional event any day of the week.
But I can’t survive the winter on college hoops alone—that’d be like eating solely Ramen for three months—and I detest
the NBA. Sure, I went to several Hornets games freshman year, and they were a blast—primarily because we’d pay nine
bucks for a nosebleed ticket and wind up sitting courtside next to D-list celebrities like Chris Weinke. But back then
Charlotte’s team was not bat-

see Connolly, page 15

Will the MLB ever crack down on steroids?

By Bossy DEMURO
Staff Columnist

As the 2004 baseball season comes to a close, and Red Sox Nation celebrates, a baseball fan’s off-season focus is
on trades, free agents, and developing draft picks. However, there is one more issue that should be on a fan’s
mind. That is the issue of steroids and other performance-enhancing drugs in the game, specifically with Barry Bonds (allegedly) as
he closes in on the all-time home run record. In the late 1990s, Mark McGwire saw a high home run
production for several years in a row, including the famous run to 61 with Sammy Sosa. After his career, Mark
McGwire acknowledged he had used “andro,” a performance-enhancing drug that at that time was not banned by Major League Baseball.
Since that time, Andro has been banned by the MLB, and other professional leagues. Also, baseball has recently developed a
substance-abuse penalty system, in which offenders are fined, suspended, and, eventually, banned from the game. The problem with this system,
however, is that it is too lenient. A player who fails a drug test—which are at this point not even
being administered—is fined, and only is suspended after several failed drug tests. The penalties must be steeper. Just ask Julius
Peppers of the NFL’s Carolina Panthers, who, in his rookie season, was suspended four games (a quarter of the year!)
at the start of the season for violating the league’s substance abuse policy. That was his first offense, and the
suspension is commonplace in the NFL. This brings us to the issue of Barry Bonds. Bonds, who surpassed the 700
home run mark earlier this season at Milwaukee, is closing fast on Hank Aaron’s home run record of 755. However,
the “steroid police” seem to be closing in on Bonds. Several BALCO (a company allegedly giving steroids to professional athletes
from the MLB, NFL, and other organizations) suits have named Bonds as a recipient of BALCO products. Also, and perhaps
more damning, the respected outfielder Gary Sheffield has come out publicly against Bonds, saying that Bonds does indeed take steroids.
Up until this current off-season, Sheffield and Bonds trained together during the winter. Bonds is focused on so acutely because
of his position in history; it seems he is inevitably going to break the all-time home run record, one of
the most admired and well-recognized records in all of sports, currently held by Hank Aaron. If Bonds is indeed taking
steroids, and he does break the record, I believe the record will be tainted. Aaron did not take steroids; nor
did Babe Ruth, the previous record-holder when Aaron broke it. However, steroids aren’t the only issue with

see Demuro, page 14
