4 THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2004

‘Pickin’ Parlor’ attracts bluegrass lovers of all ages

By ADAM MARTIN
News Editor

A little over 20 years ago, Leonard Bolick and his friends began gathering weekly in the shed behind his home to play bluegrass music. This shed, known to some as the “Pickin’ Parlor,” has since remained a regular retreat and a point of intimate intersection for local bluegrass lovers, young and old, including several Davidson students and Davidson Physical Plant employee Jimmy Freeze.

“Leonard used to come sit out here with his fiddle and play all day,” said Jimmy. “I guess I’ve been coming out here for about ten years.”

One fall day in 2002, Jimmy, a Davidson employee of 24 years, went to cut the lock off a student’s bike and found Durham Barnes ’04 outside, picking his guitar. “Jimmy asked if I wanted to go and play at this guy’s shed in Mooresville where he goes every Friday,” said Durham. “So I did. And I took some friends.”

For the past two years, Durham and other students have regularly attended either to play or just to listen to the melodies nostalgic for the freedom and hardship of mountain life. Durham described the shed in a recent piece for his non-fiction prose class. He describes the shed’s place in a Davidson week as a “heavenly refuge that emerges every Friday night from the chaos and monotony of life.”

The group typically starts gathering around 7 p.m. and plays until around 10:30 p.m. The musicians are mostly older men. “The youngest men’s ages seem to range from 50 to 100,” wrote Durham. Ben Nelson ’05 and Jamie Ferguson ’06 often add a banjo and fiddle, respectively, to the 6-10 other instruments played by various older men in the instrumentalist’s circle. After each song, the musicians chat and joke until someone starts playing another tune. The rest pick up the song without any reference to sheets of music or written lyrics. Jimmy plays the acoustic, standing bass and sings backup tenor.

Wooden rocking chairs, white plastic lawn chairs, and angular, brown vinyl school bus seats line the walls, providing resting spots for Jamie Shelton ’05, Andrea Applebee ’06, and Chris Knowles ’05 who regularly go to listen. Andrea said her favorite parts of the night are the “tuning sounds of the music circle between songs and the aura of sweet tea, fret-flexed fingers, and a tune.”

The musicians’ wives and the wives’ lady friends come out and listen too. They sit on one of the benches, do crossword puzzles, and distribute sweet tea to all during intermissions. Sometimes whole families and other friends come for the social ritual. “Old couples rock and hold hands like high school sweethearts,” wrote Durham.

“I’ve been here before when there’s been about 40-50 people here, and people are standing because there are no more seats,” said Jimmy.

Jimmy runs Davidson’s boiler room, which provides hot water to the entire campus. He also is the general mechanic, “the college fix-it man” as he puts it. He cuts bike locks, door knobs, grandfather clocks, and fixes “anything nobody else can fix.”

Jimmy’s friendship with Durham, Ben, and other students extends beyond Friday’s musical episodes. “Jimmy let me live for free in a trailer on his property the summer I worked for the Davidson Physical Plant. We rode to and from work together many mornings that summer. He opened his house to me and eagerly shared his vast knowledge about traditional living skills (horse power, farming) with me.” Others have made molasses at Jimmy’s home and had conversations around campus.

Jimmy also has played in several local bluegrass bands, performing at barbecues and parties, though his group recently disbanded. Though the gathering’s founder Leonard Bolick died in 1998, his son Paul and wife, Connie, still host the gathering in the same concrete shed.

Grocery, from page 2

The construction of the Alvarez Student Union, which houses a full-service post office and cafe, “closed the last bridge” between the town and the college, he said. Both Woods and Harris expressed a wish that the new commercial center will provide a place for members of the town and college to interact. “We would certainly want to attract students as customers,” said Woods. “Town folks really like to see students mingling in the community. The college presence here, beyond that beautiful park-like campus, creates a lot of energy and life that makes Davidson such an attractive community.” The town council had a few reservations about thenew building plans, including “the already-approved concentration of residential and commercial plans in the area, the projected increases in traffic congestion and the effect this small niche of retail development would have on our downtown business economy,” said Woods. Woods hopes that “the developer is successful in developing a contract with a high-quality grocery store operation very soon. With this ‘anchor’ in place, construction could begin that might be completed in nine months or so.”

GRILLED CHEESE - VEGGIE MELT
VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD
Plus: FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE
HOME MADE ORANGEADE, LEMONADE, AND LIMEADE
Bet you didn’t think of us for vegetarian fare!
St. Davidson, NC
VEGETABLE SOUP
Eat-in Take-out 896-7743
Sat-Thur 8-8 Fri 8-9

Debates, from page 1
during the debate. He felt Kerry’s performance might drive some liberal voters toward Ralph Nader. “Kerry came across as more conservative and cutthroat than I had ever seen him before,” he said. “Kerry didn’t turn anyone away from Bush, he just turned people away from himself.” Young Democrats Co-President Chris Burks ’07 disagreed. “John Kerry won the debate in decisive fashion,” said Burks. “Every single news organization agrees with this assessment.” Burks emphasized that the debates reflected Kerry’s overall momentum in the race. “The debate validated that John Kerry has the positive momentum in this race,” said Burks. Jesse Johnson ’07 felt Kerry won the debate, but doubted its significance in the overall race. “I think most people have made up their minds,” said Johnson, “but [Kerry] certainly strengthened my opinion towards him.”

During the panel discussion, the professors addressed matters ranging from foreign policy to the candidates’ performances. “Style went to Kerry, but substance went to Bush...Kerry didn’t turn anyone away from Bush, he just turned people away from himself.” --Joseph Adams ’06, College Republicans President

“I think the debate was notable for a lot of things left out,” said Kumar, “It was largely a rehash of things we’ve been hearing.” Kumar described the purpose of omitting some details as an appeal to the average viewer. “Not everyone has a Ph.D. in each area of diplomacy,” said Kumar. Stell echoed similar thoughts about the debate’s content. “In terms of substance, the questions were pretty boring,” he said. The performance of the candidates was an early topic of choice. The professors generally found Kerry to present himself better than his opponent. “Kerry won the debate in decisive fashion...The debate validated that John Kerry has the positive momentum in the race.” --Chris Burks ’07, Young Democrats Co-President

“In terms of performances, Kerry performed better than Bush,” said Stell. “Bush seemed angry with Kerry at times.” Dr. Levering found Kerry to exceed his expectations. “Senator Kerry came across much better than I expected,” he said. “I think Kerry used much better language than Bush.” Kumar described Bush as attempting to maintain his image as a firm leader. “Bush attempted to show that he’s resolute, he’s aiming at a fixed point, and he’s not going to be wavered,” he said.

The panel discussion was not limited to matters directly addressed in the debate. The panel discussed issues such as farm subsidies, soft force diplomacy, and the media’s depiction of the debate. “I think it will be interesting to see how the media portrays it,” said Stell. “It’s in their best interests to portray this as a horse race to the finish.” The panel members occasionally disagreed on specific issues but remained relatively controlled. The moderator, Dean of Students Tom Shandley, never had to intercede.

The Deadline for the George L. Abernathy Foundation is November 12th! Abernathy Funds are available to students in the following three categories:
1) Independent student research, either in the US or abroad
2) Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year
3) Collaborative research by students & faculty. The student must have a clearly defined independent role in the research.

At the request of the donor, applications are limited to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences. FYI: LAST YEAR THE ABERNATHY ENDOWMENT SUPPORTED PROJECTS WITH GRANTS UP TO $3,500; THE AVERAGE AWARD WAS ABOUT $2,000. Application forms are available in the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283). Completed application forms are due back in this office before 5:00 p.m. on Friday, November 12. The announcement of awards will occur on or before Jan. 15, 2005.