4 THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2004

RFK Jr. to speak on environment
By Lydie White
Staff Writer

On Thursday, November 18, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. will speak on issues of the environment in the Duke Family Performance
Hall at 8 p.m. His lecture, “Crimes Against Nature: Our Environmental Destiny,” is sponsored by the Union Board Speakers Committee,
the Black Student Coalition, and the Public Lectures Committee of Davidson College.

Brandon Zeigler ’05 of the Union Board committee came in contact with Kennedy through a speaking agency. “I believe that
RFK Jr.’s visit to Davidson will help spread environmental awareness even further amongst the student body and continue to raise
issues that are pertinent to Davidson College and the surrounding communities,” said Zeigler.

Kennedy, who is deeply committed to environmental issue awareness, has a long list of experiences in working with environmental concerns.
As an environmental lawyer, he represents two New York centered companies, the Hudson Riverkeeper, which is concerned with the clean-up
and protection of the Hudson River, and the Natural Resources Defense Council, a national lobbying and litigation group. He is
also an Environmental Law professor at Pace University.

In July 2004, Kennedy released his latest book, “Crimes Against Nature: How George W. Bush and His Corporate Pals are
Plundering the Country and Hijacking our Economy.” He spoke to the National Press Club about his disagreement with President Bush’s
environmental agenda.

Kennedy is a graduate of Harvard University, and later he attended the London School of Economics. He received his law
degree from the University of Virginia. At Pace University he received a Masters Degree in Environmental Law.

Kennedy’s published works include “New York State Apprentice Falconer’s Manual,” “New York State Department of Environmental Conservation,” “Judge Frank M.
Johnson, Jr., A Biography,” and “The Riverkeepers,” which was co-written with Hudson Riverkeeper John Cronin. Kennedy has published several articles
in the New York Times, Atlantic Monthly, The Wall Street Journal, Esquire, The Village Voice, The Boston Globe, and The
Washington Post as well.

SLAC, from page 1

school application process.” Davidson also participates in the Big Apple Recruiting Consortium (BARC), a pre-arranged interview day in New York
each February, mostly for communications, legal and research jobs. Students can also meet with Davidson alumni working in the city.

The Metrolina Job Fair is another event that provides selected students with the opportunity to be interviewed this February in
Charlotte by various companies. Moving geographically away, through SLAC’s website, Davidson students will have access this spring to the Coast
to Coast Virtual Career Fair, a two-week online job fair.

In conjunction with SLAC, Davidson already participated in First Look, a website that allows seniors to post their resumes early
in September for companies mostly in the areas of investment banking and accounting that need more notice for employee recruiting.
SLAC has a similar program for Davidson juniors, connecting them to internship interviews in New York. Juniors can apply for
this Internship Advantage Program which gathers students in New York for a day of internship interviews in January. Adams knew
four juniors who applied for an interview.

Most graduate schools and employers know Davidson’s reputation personally, but for those that don’t, the problem is numbers. A school
the size of Davidson can make its presence known only little by little. The main job of Career Services is
to constantly go after employers to come and find out more about Davidson because, said Adams, it is this personal
relationship and familiarity with Davidson that elevates Davidson students in the eyes of employers. Many pleased employers report back that
Davidson students have “integrity, a hard work ethic, the ability to rise to a challenge, and the ability to learn
on the spot,” said Adams.

In past comparisons with similar schools, Davidson students have about the same employment success as other students. In addition to
connecting students to interview opportunities, Career Services offers students six dedicated staff members who are eager to assist, a huge
information database of jobs and internships on the Career Services website,and services such as workshops, on-campus interviews, and resume review.
Career Services will provide the results of the Myers-Briggs Personality Test administered by the Residence Life Office to match students
with a compatible roommate. This can help guide students in the direction of a major or career choice. The most
valuable resource that Career Services provides, she said, is the alumni database that reaches across the nation and includes almost
every field of interest. Networking, she said, is the number one way to secure a job. Now that Career Services
has conducted a 101 seminar that all first-year students are required to attend for the past three years, hopefully more
students will take advantage of the resources at hand right here on campus. The other 11 members of SLAC are
Bryn Mawr, Carleton, Dickinson, Franklin and Marshall, Grinnell, Haverford, Vassar, Kenyon, Oberlin, and Pomona colleges, and Washington and Lee University.

Watson, from page 1

According to Green, a language dies roughly every two weeks, and over half of the world’s six thousand languages are
endangered. “Language revitalization is important because of the connections between language and identity as well as language and worldview,” she
said. “By living in and working with these three communities, I hope to gain a better understanding of the dynamics
of language loss and revitalization, especially how it affects personal and community identity and worldview.”

Marynak explained her motivation for choosing her topic. “Music programs are being cut from school budgets in the United States.
I have researched countries where preserving human life is often difficult, but where the youth symphony seems to be thriving.
I want to learn the creation stories of these symphonies, whose existence communicates the message, we want music for our
children,” she said. Marynak also proposes to study the “therapeutic aspect” of this music on the children and their societies
through cooperation in a musical setting.

Nelson has applied to study the origins of southern fiddle-banjo tradition in West Africa, Scotland, and Ireland. For his project,
Nelson wants to play in the musical community of Senegal and learn to play two lutes that are possible precursors
to the banjo introduced to the United States through slaves. After six months in Africa, Nelson proposes to turn his
attention to the fiddle. In order to do this, he plans to travel through Donegal County, Ireland, and the Scottish
Highlands and learn to fiddle in the Scots-Irish tradition. “The fiddle and banjo seem inseparable when you hear them played
in the context of southern traditional music, but history indicates that the two instruments originated in two distinct cultures that
followed vastly different paths into the South,” he said. “Through my Watson project, I hope to link these cultures with
each other and with my own, discovering new musical and cultural connections that I can bring home with me and
share.”

The Thomas J. Watson Fellowship was founded in memory of Thomas J. Watson, the founder of IBM, in 1968. The
Fellowship corresponds with Watson’s interest in education and global affairs. Since 1969, Davidson has graduated 63 Watson Fellows, the most
recent being Gray Lyons ’04. Lyons is currently studying bread-making customs in France, Hungary, India, Vietnam, and Trinidad. The next
step for the Watson nominees is to meet with members of the Watson Foundation this winter for interviews. Fellows will
be notified by the Foundation by March 15. The Dean of Students Office is responsible for selecting nominees for the
fellowship on campus. To learn more about the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship, visit the Career Services Website or www.watsonfellowship.org, or
contact the Dean of Students Office.

Surprise your college kids or campus chums with a yummy ice cream cake. Birthdays, study breaks, exam time, graduation, or
just for fun!

Ghee & bot’s Reman Aare. fe, 9 FAERIE 202 South Main St. Davidson, NC. 704-892-0604 - 10% Off with School
ID Monday-Friday 2pm-6pm Saturday 11:30am-5pm.
