THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2004

Hesse-Biber discusses obsession with thinness

By Leslie HEMPSON
Senior Staff Writer

“As a society, we are obsessed with being thin,” Dr. Sharlene Hesse-Biber proclaimed Monday evening in a lecture entitled “The
Cult of Thinness.” Hesse-Biber, a professor of Sociology at Boston College, studies body image and eating disorders from a socio-cultural
perspective.

According to Hesse-Biber, five to ten percent of post-pubescent girls and women in the United States suffer from an eating
disorder or borderline eating disorder. Although men, too, struggle with negative body image, roughly nine out of ten eating disorders
occur in women. Hesse-Biber attributed the prevalence of eating disorders to societal pressures and specifically blamed capitalism for spreading those
pressures worldwide.

“My thesis is going to be that capitalism spreads white, Western values across racial gaps and ethnic lines,” Hesse-Biber said,
“and that these values are being transmitted via satellite television sets across all cultures, regardless of race, class, level of
industrial advancement. Developing societies import Western norms of beauty through the purchase and consumption of Western media, clothing styles, and
beauty products.”

Hesse-Biber compared the current obsession with thinness to the ancient Chinese practice of foot-binding. She explained that members of a
particular culture often perceive group practices like dieting and foot-binding as perfectly normal because they have never known anything else.

Georgie Ahrendt ’06 said, “I really liked how she used the foot-binding example to show that we need to place
ourselves outside of our culture to see it objectively. Foot-binding seems absurd but it wasn’t to [the Chinese]. So if
we can step outside of our culture, maybe we can see this cult of thinness for what it is: absurd.”

Dr. Gayle Kaufman, Assistant Professor of Sociology, organized the event, which was attended by approximately 250 students, faculty, and staff.
Kaufman said, “I thought that this would have a lot of appeal to students here because the issues of body
image and dieting and being thin and looking good is one that is really at the forefront of a lot
of college students’, particularly female college students’, minds. So I think that people will hear this and hopefully think about
this issue for themselves and for their friends.”

Leslie Smith ‘06 agreed, “I think that at Davidson because so many people here are Type-A personalities, [thinness] becomes a
norm. But people need to realize that always dieting and excessive exercise is not healthy.”

Dr. Hesse-Biber spoke about the influence of the media on body image Monday night. “So I’m glad that these issues
are being brought to the surface more,” said Smith.

Smith and other leaders of the Body Image Support Network, a group of students dedicated to challenging the cult of
thinness on campus, reported that many of their peers felt pressured to maintain a certain body weight. Unfortunately, those pressures
are unlikely to go away any time soon. Even the college bookstore provides a subtle hint that thinness is important.
At least eight books on dieting have been displayed prominently near the cash register.Registers since the beginning of the semester.
According to Gwen Gardner, manager of the bookstore, displays are supposed to reflect current student interests. Biber concluded her lecture
by reminding students that they could challenge the cult of thinness by “deconstructing” the media and making an effort to
comment on others’ accomplishments instead of their appearance. Students should also keep in mind that the media’s portrayal of body
weight is often inaccurate. Models featured on the covers of popular magazines are increasingly computer-generated images, not actual people.

Staff Writer

This Thursday’s SGA meeting began with a visit from Davidson alum Kendra Berner, who spoke as a representative of “Teach
for America,” a two-year program that places college graduates in low-income school systems. Berner spent the past two years teaching
in Texas and is preparing to go to Georgetown Law School in the fall. She encouraged Davidson students to consider
applying to this “challenging and rewarding” program.

Other agenda items included Judy Kaplan ’04 and Hanako Kawabata ’06 discussing the Adopt-A-Country AIDS Campaign that will be sponsoring
a free HIV testing day on February 12 at the on-campus health center. ACAC hopes to eliminate the stigma attached
to HIV testing and, as a result, normalize the test process. It was also resolved that the SGA submit the
amended pass/fail policy to the Educational Policy Committee. The SGA created this proposal on the basis that it would “decrease
the potential for a student to make a poor Pass/Fail decision” since “an uninformed Pass/Fail decision may negatively affect a
student’s academic status at Davidson.”

Two amendments are being presented as options to the Educational Policy Committee. The first amendment keeps the initial pass/fail deadline,
but students are given the opportunity to withdraw their pass/fail decision until Reading Day. The second amendment extends the pass/fail
deadline two weeks from the current date. This gives students the chance to determine their status in a questionable course.
SGA President Charles Washington noted that the policy “changed seven years ago,” and he said he could not “see why
they would be opposed to changing it back.”

In other news from the meeting, the SGA and the Athletic Department are discussing the possibility of a chili cook-off
on Feb. 14 to raise money for a local charity and also to stir up spirit for the men’s and
women’s basketball teams' games against Georgia Southern and Elon respectively.

Your Dream: “I want to become a doctor.”
Your Reality: “I don’t have the required courses for medical school.”

The Johns Hopkins Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program prepares college graduates with strong academic records to apply to the best medical schools
by giving them the personal attention, the necessary science and math courses, and one-to-one academic advising. If you or someone
you know wants to pursue a career as a doctor, apply by March 1. For more information, visit www.jhu.edu/postbac or
call 410-516-7748.

JOHNS HOPKINS
Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program
