9 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sunday night’s performance began the week.

A bit of diversity: Asian awareness week

By Amoura CARTER
Staff Writer

The Asian Culture and Awareness Association was created in 1997 to provide an outlet through which all Davidson College students—Asian
or non-Asian—can explore and cultivate their interests in Asian and Asian-American culture. But until about two years ago, when it
was revived by Sean Chan ’06, the ACAA was a dormant club. To make sure the club never becomes inactive
again, the ACAA has been steadily creating a name for itself by offering a number of events like Chinese New
Year and comedian Eliot Chang, who will be performing again this November.

Community service is also an important part of ACAA. Members tutor elementary school students from 3:30-4:30 and 5 p.m.-6 p.m.
at Torrence Chapel in Cornelius every Monday and Wednesday.

One of the ACAA’s most important events for this semester is Asian Awareness Week, which runs from October 24-October 28.
Ying Zang ’07 said, “We tried to make this week specifically geared towards not only promoting awareness of Asian cultures
but educating people on the Asian culture—hence the lecture and trivia night and sushi workshop.”

The ACAA looks to bring activities to Davidson College to help diversify the campus and expose students to something different,
new, and interesting on campus.

The kick-off event for Asian Awareness Week was a showcase of performances featuring a Tibetan dance, a fashion show featuring
some of Davidson College’s own students, a children’s dance, a Thai dance, a Filipino dance, and Japanese souran bushi. “The
ACAA event was marvelous. I loved the way it displayed various traditional dances from cultures throughout Asia,” exclaims Darren Morgan
’08.

Monday’s event was a tea time discussion given by Dr. Fuji Lozada, a Davidson Anthropology professor, entitled “Ichiro and Tiger:
The Impact of Sports on Asians and Asian-Americans.” The nighttime Sprinkle Room discussion was extremely intimate, so students were able
to feel comfortable asking questions and raising topics for discussion freely. The topics ranged from Asian stereotypes, to Asian masculinity,
to the effects of Asian-Americans in mainstream media on Asians and Asian-Americans.

Free Sushi anyone? Many hungry students enjoyed Tuesday’s event, a “Sushi Making Workshop.” Students were able to learn how to
make their own Sushi, thanks to the members of ACAA. Students also had the benefit of a free demonstration and
lesson in Chinese calligraphy writings by Linda Zheng.

Wednesday’s event is for students who are in need of a study break. And what Davidson College student is not
in need of that? “Better Luck Tomorrow” will be shown in Hance Auditorium (formerly Perkins), on the 4th floor of
Chambers, from 5-7 p.m. “Better Luck Tomorrow” is about an extremely intelligent perfectionist, Ben, an Asian-American teen. As he struggles
to achieve social success in high school, we discover his darker side. Along with two friends, Virgil and Virgil’s cousin
Han, Ben leads a double life of mischief and petty crimes that alleviate the pressures of perfection. Ben meets up
with another overachiever and perfectionist at school, maybe the most dangerous of them all, and they band together to form
a suburban gang.

“It is a contemporary movie that seeks to treat the character’s race as a secondary trait and their personalities as
the primary. This movie depicts the versatility of the characters without type-casting them as the token, stereotypical Asian,” says Chan
of the film.

The final event of the week is Thursday, Asian Trivia Night, from 4-6 p.m. in the 900 room, featuring free
food and fun trivia. Bring your smartest friends to create a team for Asian Trivia Night and try to win
great prizes by answering questions about Asian history, music, culture, etc.

A THANK YOU TO ALL OF THE BUSINESSES WHO DONATED TO SGA DAY 2004!
Caribbean Breeze Tanning Resort
Davino’s Hair
Thirty-Three
Sauza’s
Legends
Iron Grill
Japanese Express
The Davidson Studio
The Smoothie Shop
Kyoto Sushi at the Lake
Summit Fuel
Home Economist
Dolce Gelato
Carrabba's
Wendy's
Movies at Birkdale
Brixx

Please join us in frequenting these establishments, in return for all they do for the Davidson community.

Arts & LIVING
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2004

Light deficiencies in dorm life

By Sara Sams
Special Contributor

Perhaps the hardest adjustment to make in the transition to dorm life is, for many of us, the lack of
plentiful sunlight. Let me emphasize that this complaint is not a selfish one; I am currently...Mourning the death of my
bright yellow garden mum plant named, appropriately, “Sonny.” Sonny was an important addition to the room; s/he was, in fact,
a comrade. But I will avoid writing an extended obituary, for it is the hostile environment dorms provide for plant
life that I wish to call attention to. The windows in most Richardson rooms provide some sunlight—enough, hopefully, to keep
its human inhabitants healthy—but not enough to sustain the other organisms that share these homes. Certainly, there is a certain
peace to be found in living with plants, a somewhat higher level of happiness in their continual presence—they do remind
us, after all, that there is more to the world than the monotonous, asphalt road we can’t seem to exit.
With this philosophy in mind, imagine how tragic the speedy shriveling of a plant-friend might be. Sharing a grief for
the shriveling of flora, Kealy Devoy admitted, “I just wasn’t my usual happy self when my daisies withered away.”

With the dimness of the dorm room as the primary suspect, Sonny’s death was investigated. According to ACES, an Alabamian
organization that published a scholarly article on garden mum production, these fastidious plants do require “full sun.” They also, however,
are very susceptible to water stress. At about this point in the inspection, a rather large, guilty knot formed in
the throat of Sonny’s nurturer. Was it possible that the waning of Sonny was due to neglect? Instantaneously, another delayed
realization occurred: your correspondent had attempted to cultivate a garden mum indoors. So Sonny was an outdoor plant, and perhaps
not mourning the death of a plant. Cause plant death watered religiously. Obviously, a couple of other factors were involved
in the demise of the yellow garden mum that used to brighten up the window of this mournful Richardson room.
Sunlight deficiency, however, is still the number one suspect behind the fatality of Sonny. This can be explained by the
following facts: 1) the mum was served water at least every other day, 2) your correspondent is still in a
stage of self-denial, and 3) the window Sonny used to occupy is excessively shaded by the massive trees outside the
Commons exposure of Richardson dormitory.

If this hypothesis is accepted, and the truth is that there is a severe deficiency of golden rays in many
dorm rooms, what might it suggest about the health of the students living there? And if this darkness in rooms
with shaded windows is damaging, what dangerous dimness are basement dwellers being exposed to? “For every sensory system, physical energy,
light energy, is a source of stimulation,” learn students of General Psychology. And there seems to be a connection between
brightness and happiness. Response from basement dwellers on this subject seemed to agree upon the primary use of their rooms:
to sleep. “The darkness in my room makes me lethargic.” — a common complaint. Isn’t sleeping too often a sign
of depression?

Sonny’s specific color, and that s/he was so cherished, might serve as further evidence of a student’s desire for more
sunlight. Yellow is the most popular color, representing 26 percent of the market, followed by pink and lavender at 22
percent, white, bronze, and red at 14 percent each, salmon at 6 percent, and orange at 4 percent (for this
information your correspondent is indebted to the same agricultural company). Yellow was definitely the most appealing, and probably so because
it is reminiscent of the golden rays of sun for which the rooms are found wanting.

Are some students—particularly the “cave” or “dungeon” inhabitants, as Andrew Johnson refers to his home on Base Rich—at risk of
despair? Johnson—who, notably, has a window—asserts that the living situation is not the problem. “I wouldn’t say I have ever
been overcome by any particularly gray emotions. We are allowed frequent visits to the outside world, so I wouldn’t say
our location in relation to ground level is the problem.”

An entirely different hypothesis concerning the well-being of basement dwellers was proposed. Michelle Navas (joint-custodian of Sonny) noted that, sadly,
the guardians only engaged in conversation with the mum on one or two occasions. Learn from this tragedy, and if
you are planning to brighten your room with a plant, as the evidence demands a student do, do not neglect
it. Hum tunes in its presence if you find yourself lacking words to express yourself to the amazing botanical friend.
