THE DAVIDSONIAN

Campus Police Blotter

9/1 Greenhouse Parking Lot Theft

Victim reports that they parked their vehicle in the greenhouse parking lot at approximately 11:30 p.m. on August 31, 2004. On returning to the vehicle at approximately 11 a.m. on September 4, they discovered that unknown person(s) had broken into their vehicle and removed the CD player from the dash. Entry was gained by breaking out a small window in the right rear door. The CD player is valued at $210 and the car window at $100.

9/3 Satellite Parking Lot Vandalism

On September 2, an officer spoke with the victim who stated that between August 27 at 4:00 p.m. and August 28 at 11:30 a.m. some unknown person(s) put a scratch down the passenger side of their car. The car was parked in the lower Satellite Lot.

~ Where: Easttown Army Recruiting Station
~ When: 9 a.m. - 6 p.m. Monday-Friday
~ Who: Sgt. 1st Class Steensgard, 563-0560

1-800-235-5385
15 MONTH.GOARMY.COM

News

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2004

Jerusalem peacemakers visit Davidson during 3-week tour

By Mary ALICE RICHTER
Staff Writer

Thirteen Israeli and Palestinian students from Jerusalem visited Davidson last Thursday as part of a three-week peacemaking program.

“If you saw the city today you would cry. It was a beautiful place but the war has left it in shambles,” said Andre, a Palestinian Christian, describing his life in Jerusalem to a group of Davidson students. “I don’t want to depress you though. If you want, we can talk about chocolate.”

The group, the members of whom are all in their twenties, represented the three major faiths of their city: Christianity, Judaism, and Islam.

They have spent three weeks as representatives for Moderate Voices for Progress (MVP), a non-profit organization sponsored by the YMCAs of Jerusalem and the Greater Charlotte area.

Their program aims to create relationships between young Israelis and Palestinians and build strong leaders dedicated to peaceful dialogue and co-existence.

The MVP participants spent last Thursday at Davidson, where they spent the day participating in a Compassionate Learning session led by Lilly Program Assistant Director Jill Williams, attending Dr. Ken Menkhaus’s class on Middle Eastern Politics, and eating ice cream at Ben & Jerry’s.

That night, at a dinner arranged by Isha Ahsan-Lee, community service fellow, the visitors met with groups of Davidson students and spoke about life in a war-torn city. They described empty schools, unemployment, and unwavering anxiety about the safety of friends and family.

A certain duality characterized the discussion as the visitors vacillated between explanations of the religious and historical complexity of the situation and the simple facts of daily life. Energetic and articulate, they described both despair for the present and hope for the future.

While in the U.S., the group also traveled to Washington, D.C. and addressed audiences that ranged from middle-school students to politicians.

Once they return to Jerusalem, the MVP participants will meet 15 more times and work on a joint project to help bring peace and reconciliation to their communities.

Although they steered away from political arguments, the visitors urged Davidson’s students to stay informed and recognize that each perspective is riddled with positive and negative attributes.

As Ahsan-Lee hoped, the dinner proved to be a truly revealing experience for the students involved.

Sarah Caitlin Mattingly ’08 said, “It was great—no matter what you hear on the news, it’s always eye-opening to speak with people who are actually dealing with conflict in their daily lives.”

Other students enjoyed the evening because it presented an opportunity to explore an issue many are reticent to discuss.

Sami Jarrah ’07 said, “So few people want to talk about it because it isn’t easy or comfortable. You’ll make many more friends talking about movies or sports than Palestine or Israel, but I think we need to continually question what the US is doing around the world. Because our country has such a huge say in what happens in Israel, it seems like most Americans should be better versed on the topic.”

UNIVERSITY INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

AUSTRALIA
BELIZE
CHINA
ECUADOR
ENGLAND
FRANCE
GERMANY
IRELAND
ISRAEL
ITALY
NEW ZEALAND
NIGER
SPAIN
U.S.A.

This is B.U.
This could be you.
Come find out how.
Come meet Joe Finkhouse from Boston University International Programs

Wednesday, September 15, 10:15 a.m.—12:30 p.m.
Outside Chambers

INTERNSHIPS
LANGUAGE
LIBERAL ARTS
SCIENCE

BOSTON UNIVERSITY INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS
232 Bay State Road
Boston, MA 02215
abroad@bu.edu
www.bu.edu/abroad
Financial aid is available