IEEE Staff Editorial

Re: Name recognition

To those in the know, Davidson has a reputation as among the American colleges where grade inflation has not reared
its head. The Davidsonian’s investigation this week into the grading policies at Davidson proves that reputation well deserved. While many
elite schools are beginning to take steps to combat what many consider an outrageous level of ‘A’-range grades, Davidson's average
GPA has remained nearly constant for over 20 years, hovering around a 3.1.

While Davidson’s faculty and administration should be praised for continuously flying in the face of outside pressures and steadfastly sticking
to our philosophy of holding Davidson students to a more rigorous standard than most of our peers, we must pause
and consider the implications of our decision not to follow the path traveled by nearly all other colleges and universities.
Even if other schools follow the plan recently adopted by Princeton University and cap the number of ‘A’-range grades at
35 percent, those more demanding standards will still fall short of those to which Davidson students are held.

To any Davidson student who will be applying for a job or to graduate school in the near future, these
figures may be frightening. Davidson is fortunate to have a well-deserved reputation with many companies and graduate schools which many
alumni work for or have attended, but what about those students wishing to go into less typical fields where few
Davidson connections exist? While Davidson embraces the liberal arts idea that students should be free to explore all different disciplines,
including those outside of the mainstream, our grading policies might be hurting those students who take up the challenge of
pursuing less traditional fields in which Davidson’s name may not be well known.

Since our reputation is largely derived from our alumni, Davidson’s small size means that we are already at a disadvantage
compared to most other schools. Therefore, it is up to Davidson’s students, both current and former, to take extra efforts
in order to ensure we are not hurt by our stringent grading policies. As The Davidsonian reports this week, one
new organization on campus, the Davidson International Development Initiative, is making such an effort by organizing a website and database
of alumni and contacts for students interested in international development. This group’s idea and others like it ensure that Davidson
students are not punished for our commitment to upholding such high standards. Yet our reputation can only grow if others
follow the same path. It is up to us to seek out new opportunities and prove the true quality of
a Davidson education.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor in Chief
David Crow

Editors
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel

News Editors
Ruchi Turakhia & Sarah-Grace Wesley

Perspectives Editor
Zach Williams

Arts & Living Editors
Carinon Hodge & Sarah Robinson

Yow! Editor
Colin Fag

Sports Editors
Peter Alison & Mike Giglio

Dorsett Clark & Ryan Thompson

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, April 28, 2004

SO CUTE, HE THINKS “LADDER” MEANS NICKNAMES FOR SANTA

GOOD MORNINGSurvey will make for useful analysis

Thank you to everyone who participated in the Alcohol Policy Questionnaire! For those of you unfamiliar with the Questionnaire, it
is a tool to gather student opinions about the Alcohol Policy, in order to assist the Review Committee (that includes
only five students) in recommending changes that should be made to our current Alcohol Policy. The questionnaire was sent to
a random sample of 800 students that was produced by the Institutional Research Department. As of now, a few hours
before the questionnaire is scheduled to close, 458 students have participated in the study. This is over a quarter of
our student population, a huge sample! I understand the questionnaire was long and I appreciate each and every one of
you who took the time to answer the questions. More importantly, the Administration recognizes the fact that if this many
people took this much time to complete the questionnaire, the student body must truly want its voice heard; the Administration
recognizes that this is something that matters to us.

As a result, the Review Committee for the Alcohol Policy has extended the deadlines for when formal recommendations for changes
to the Policy will be made. In the next two weeks, preliminary analysis of the data will be sent to
Dean Marsicano and the Review Committee. Over the summer, a more complete, formal analysis of the data will be performed.
The report will then be sent before student organizations, such as SGA and PCC, in the hope that these student
groups will review the results and add their own commentary/recommendations. Again, we want to make sure the data that goes
to the Review Committee is representative of the entire student body.

On this note, I want to assure everyone that a wide variety of student opinion is represented in the data.
I make this assertion based on the responses in regard to the extracurricular involvements, alcohol consumption patterns, and additional comments
of the participants thus far. I am thrilled at the response we received from all of you, and I am
pleased to know that the Review Committee will have a much more accurate representation of student opinion as they make
their recommendations this year.

Again, thank you for participating.

Rachael Voyles ’05

---

Frolics a success despite low turnout

Thank you so much to everyone who made Spring Frolics this year happen. Can you please bring back Fall Frolics?
I wonder, though, as I do every year: where is everybody? For just four hours on Saturday, sun, fun, music,
games, food, and craziness came together on this campus. Yet I would guess that at its busiest, the Court held
not more than 400 or 500 Frolickers. Could it be that over the course of the day, not even half
of the school paid a visit to the festivities? Four hours out of your lives could have paid dividends in
memories. There is no better time to shake off the clamps of work and go party than Spring Frolics!

Roland Foss ’05
