THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2004 5

Trustees, from page 1

but I was not unwilling to talk about it.” Following the retreat, the Executive Committee of the Board appointed 10
trustees to serve on an Ad Hoc Committee that would study the possibility of changing or modifying the Trustee religion
requirement.

Around the same time as the retreat, the Alumni Association unanimously expressed “its support for the Board of Trustees in
its examination of the requirement that all trustees be ‘active members of a Christian Church’ and, as it relates to
alumni-elected trustees, the Alumni Board encourages the Trustees to remove the Christian church membership requirement thereby opening service on the
Board of Trustees to all alumni.”

While this decision by the Alumni Association was not a decisive factor pressuring the Trustees to change, it did encourage
the Board to take up the issue. “The major impact of the Alumni Association request was to motivate us to
focus on these issues sooner rather than later,” said John McCartney ’74, Chairman of the Board of Trustees.

The Committee’s recommendation

The Ad Hoc Committee made three separate recommendations to the Board. First, that the College’s Statement of Purpose be revised
in order to “retain those essential affirmations that have shaped the college, yet clarify and strengthen other portions that speak
to current questions and issues.” Second, that Article I of the trustee bylaws be changed in order to “strengthen the
Board’s commitment to the Statement of Purpose.” And third, that the Trustees support “the creation of an endowed chair in
Reformed Theology.”

McCartney emphasized that the committee views all of these recommendations as bringing Davidson closer to the College’s traditions. “These proposals
are motivated by Trustee thinking about how we express what Davidson is and what we want Davidson to be, founded
on our collective faith and strong ties to the Reformed Tradition,” McCartney said.

The proposed revisions to the Statement of Purpose do not radically alter the document. Rather, the Trustees wanted to clarify
the College’s relationship to the Presbyterian Church. Rev. Art Ross ’65, a Trustee who sat on the Ad Hoc Committee
said, “One of the principles of the Reformed Tradition is as time goes by one gets a clearer view. No
statement will always be final. It will always be subject to being reformed... I think the new Statement of Purpose
sharpens our relationship to the Church and makes the language a little clearer.”

After revising and reexamining the Statement of Purpose, the Committee decided that “to require all Trustees to have such [Christian]
membership is not consistent with the Statement of Purpose of the Reformed Tradition of Christian faith.” The Committee specifically pointed
out that “these recommendations were not made in the first instance as a matter of equity, or in an effort
to homogenize Davidson into a place that looks more like other colleges. Rather, the basis for our proposals was a
theological one, relying on the tenets of our faith as the foundation for our suggestions.”

Vagt emphasized that the decision was based on their theological understanding of the Reformed Tradition. “While the issue of equity
with respect to alumni being able to serve is important, and, while one might assume that this significant change in
policy makes Davidson appear more welcoming, the primary basis for the Committee’s recommendations is that they are a better reflection
of the theological foundation of Davidson,” Vagt said.

Rogers also stressed the theological reason-Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The final recommendation from the committee asked for the Board’s support in creating an endowed chair in Reformed Theology. “The
Trustee issue was not an isolated issue but was part of a wider discussion that included not only attention to
the Statement of Purpose but also to the questions of the academic program, that is the teaching of Reformed Theology
in the Department of Religion,” said Rogers. For this reason, the committee felt it important to emphasize the College’s historic
ties to the Reformed Church and allow for the instruction of Reformed theology at Davidson. “As an expression of the
importance of the intellectual piece of the historic ties with this faith tradition, the Committee challenged the Board to sponsor
a person who would be able to instruct in this area,” said Vagt. Until 1998, there had been a professor
specializing in Reformed Theology in the Religion Department. However, since his departure, there has been no specialist in Reformed Theology
at Davidson. The committee’s proposal will most likely be voted on at the Trustees’ next meeting early next semester. Although
there is no way to know exactly how the Trustees will vote, there did seem to be positive feelings from
most members of the Board. “[The proposal] was very well received,” said Rogers. “We want to have some more discussion,
but I think it’s just a matter of tweaking it some.”

Analyzing the recommendations

According to College Chaplain Rob Spach ’84, the proposed changes are clearly in line with Davidson’s Reformed heritage. “The Reformed
tradition believes that we are all finite and we are limited by our specific context... this means we ought to
remain open to people of other traditions because it is possible that we can move closer to a fuller understanding
of truth through our interactions,” said Spach. Spach believes that it is precisely because of our Reformed tradition, not in
spite of it, that this change was possible. “One of my concerns when I came here in ’93 was that
we look at our religious tradition in a way that is forward-looking without letting go of where we come from,”
he said. “This decision is an expression of that forward-looking tradition.”

In addition to these recommendations being in line with the College’s Reformed heritage, many believe that students should pay careful
attention to this decision. Spach said that the decision is important because, “as students you don’t know if you will
someday want to be a trustee and the recommendations make that a possibility for any student.” McCartney agreed, saying, “Under
the by-laws as interpreted when I was a student, I would not have been eligible to serve as a Trustee.
It didn’t seem very relevant to me at the time, but I’m glad there has been a change.” Vagt also
felt that this recommendation is important for current Davidson students to understand. When asked what the proposal meant for non-Christian
students at Davidson, Vagt said, “What I hope this proposal does not say is that they [non-Christians] have been deemed
lesser people prior to its passage. What I hope it does say is that this institution respects them for their
own faith traditions and trusts them to honor the faith tradition on which this institution was founded.”

---

