THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond the Brickhouse

In the college tradition of “going out,” location determines everything. Can’t you just feel your inner-realtor screaming location, location, location?
Therefore, it is quite obvious that some bars are heavily frequented (i.e. the Brickhouse), others are considered but avoided due
to atmospheric pressures, and a few of them are completely lost behind suburbia.

These unseen and hidden bars, pubs, what-have-you are overlooked niches that are loaded with local personality and flavor. They are
small, crowded, and laden with the grime of smoke, history, and God knows what else. Usually, these spots veer away
from the shopping-center locale and hackneyed American bar motif. You can find these gems hidden in the nooks and crannies
of country roads and unfamiliar neighborhoods. They are — or should be — Davidson College’s local treasures.

But still, our beloved Davidson 21-year-olds march in droves to the nearest squat across the railroad tracks. Aren’t we adventuresome?
Therefore, I dare you, my anonymous reader, to step out a bit. Once you search beyond the comfort of Leave-It-to-Beaverville,
you will discover a range of local stops where you can spend the evening. Stop lolling around in your poster
and tapestry draped room and explore — you’ll be shocked at what waits for your footsteps. And, suddenly, you will
discover that a little nighttime reconnaissance is just as simple and entertaining as stumbling to and from the Brickhouse (again
— and again). Forget the geographic and transportation minutia — Vamanos or designate. Have fun. I dare you.

Top Five Local Dives:

Saeed’s Palm Bar - Beach volleyball, ping-pong, billiards, foosball, karaoke nights, indoor and patio seating. Thursday is open mic night.
Cute boys, too. Located in Cornelius: take 115 south until Catawba Avenue and take a right on Catawba Avenue. Saeed’s
is behind the Carolina Wine and Beverage Company (and gas station). 704-896-3633.

Galway Hooker Irish Pub — “Traditional” Irish pub brought to Cornelius. Claims to be home of Charlotte’s Best New Year’s
Party. Hosts trivia nights, live Irish music, Irish meals (dark beer, potatoes, yum), and a leprechaun door. Boasts the mission
of being the highest quality authentic Irish Pub in the market. Located in Cornelius: exit 25, take a right on
Highway 73, go 1.3 miles, turn right on Kenton Drive. 704-895-1782.

Vinnie’s Sardine Grill and Raw Bar - World famous crab legs and right on the lake. Features fab seafood, indoor
and outdoor seating, as well as spaces to dock your own sunfish. All you can eat crab legs on Monday
night, live music at monthly oyster roasts, and dollar beer every day. Note to male readers — waitresses dress like
Hooters girls. Location: take 77 N to exit 36, take a left onto NC 150, take a left onto Williamson
Road. The address is 643 Williamson Road. 704-799-2090.

Korner Pub — A true southern pub where old men drink beer. Token effect: no windows. Location: take 115 N
for about one mile, Korner Pub is on your right. 704-655-0000.

Summit Coffee — Your base camp for excellent times. Closer than close and, don’t worry, there’s no climbing involved (except
to the second floor). Have fun gazing at hundreds of photographs and posted advertisements. Now serves live music, beer, and
wine during the evenings. Look for the Davidson College alums and renowned mountaineers. Location: 128 S Main Street (right next
to Main Street Books). 704-895-9090.

SNAPSHOTS OF DAVIDSON

Each week we will be featuring different photographs of Davidson College and its students. Please email either Cannon Hodge or
Chris Schmader to submit photographs. This week’s snapshot, depicting Court Selection festivities, is by Katherine Younger.

LIVING

Dance company to showcase diverse repertoire at Davidson

By Lauren Law
Staff Writer

In honor of Davidson’s focus on diversity, Ailey II, Alvin Ailey’s premier junior dance company, will perform this Sunday in
the Duke Family Performance Hall. Ailey (1931-1989), born in Rogers, Texas, was introduced to dance by the performances of the
KatherineDunham Dance Company and the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. His formal dance training began when a friend, Carmen de
Lavallade, introduced him to Lester Horton’s classes. Ailey’s “blood memories” of Texas, the blues, spirituals, and gospel inspired the artist
when he began to create dance, culminating in “Revelations,” his most critically acclaimed work. He started the Ailey School in
1969 in Brooklyn, NY, with 125 students. Inspired by his belief that dance training should be available to all, Ailey
joined a diverse troupe. The evolution of Ailey’s company and its repertory has paralleled America’s own changes. Today the school
and its companies seek to honor Ailey’s dream of a company dedicated to “the preservation of unique black cultural expression
and the enrichment of the American modern dance heritage.” Despite creating 79 ballets in his lifetime, Ailey claimed that this
company was not merely a repository for his own creations. Since his death, Artistic Director Sylvia Waters has honored Ailey’s
wish by having the company perform significant works of the past and supplementing the repertoire with new pieces. In addition
to original works by both Ailey and Jamison, in recent years Ailey II has performed works by masters such as
Talley Beatty and esteemed choreographers like Donald Byrd, Shapiro & Smith, Avila/Weeks, Lar Lubovitch, Kevin Wynn, and Ulysses Dove. Their
2002 tour spanned nearly 40 major cities and received unparalleled praise for performances at colleges, universities, and other educational institutions.
Since its inception, 30 members of Ailey II entered the Theatre Company. Others joined elite dance companies around the world
or found success as teachers, directors, choreographers, and performers in theater, film, and television. Through its emphasis on a diverse
repertoire, superior technique, and outstanding performance, the company has emerged as one of the most critically acclaimed companies in the
United States. Faithful to Ailey’s vision, the company continues to use “dance as a medium for honoring the past, celebrating
the present, and fearlessly reaching into the future.”

Atkins, from page 7

A loud and long lambasting, but such is the nature of media whiplash: a trend cannot be quietly replaced, only
rudely ousted. And the worse the insults, the more extreme the trends. Thus I suggest we embrace this disgusting show
of devotion to what is primarily an obese marketing push. Let us gorge ourselves on proclamations of the Truth of
Protein as a way of living life. The recent Christian best seller, “The Purpose Driven Life,” can now be re-released
as The Protein Driven Life. Communion wafers can be easily replaced with American cheese. Atkins bumper stickers could feature slogans
such as: “I Do Not Brake for Cows Because I Want to Eat Them” or “Cholesterol is Best of All.”
The blindly indoctrinated will perhaps be shaken into awareness. Extremism can slay any great ideology. Or, if that does not
work, millions of passionless Americans can be thrown even further into a “cause.” When one loves pork products, what better
to be than a sheep?

COMPLETELY UPDATED! The Must-Have NEW Edition

DR. ATKINS’ NEW DIET REVOLUTION

The latest on the safety and effectiveness of the Atkins approach
Dozens of new recipes and tips to jump-start weight loss
Robert C. Atkins, M.D.
The book that (re)started it all
