Tomlinson apparently not kidding about that whole building renaming thing

Dorm now officially takes a really long time to pronounce; West family bereaved

WEST—Despite some initial speculation that the recently dedicated Tomlinson dorm was kind of a temporary arrangement or something, it would
seem the building’s really long three-syllable name is here to stay. This realization has come as a shock not only
to upperclassmen who still refer to the building by its original, much shorter name “West,” but also to members of
the West family themselves.

“What a large-scale kick in the drawers,” said Frank West '87 of Mooresville and Monte-Carlo. “You give your good name
and good money to a building and this is how you get repaid? I thought Vagt was just kidding about
this whole Tomlinson thing. I mean, does he actually expect students to take the time out of their day necessary
to pronounce that name? Really, have you tried it? It takes like half a minute,” West continued.

Despite West’s protests, his building was officially re-dedicated in September following a major donation to the school by alumnus Nelson
Tomlinson. The continued presence of Tomlinson’s really long name on the building this semester has confirmed for many its permanence.
The new title has yet to stick with most students, however.

“You might call me old-fashioned, but West will always be ‘West’ to me,” commented third-floor resident Amy Young ’05. “It’s
not so much that Tomlinson takes too long to say, which it does, but more of a nostalgia thing.”

Students have cited multiple reasons for not buying into the whole Tomlinson change, such as the fact that the building
looks just like West, smells just like West, and still serves the main function that West did, which is providing
juniors with singles so they have a whole lot of sex. And yet the main source of nomenclature recalcitrance still
comes down to an issue of word length.

“If you think about it, all other dorms on campus are one, two syllables tops,” commented Jon Eldeman ’04. “Belk.
Cannon. Those are roll-off-the-tongue, easy-to-pronounce-in-a-hurry type names. There's Richardson of course, but anyone calling it that better be a prospective
or my mom.” Eldeman went on to explain that some have tried the whole “‘Rich’ shortening thing” with Tomlinson, but
couldn’t seem to call the building “Tom” or even “Tommy” while maintaining a straight face.

“Actually, now that I think about it, I guess people technically call Jameson ‘Jameson,” Eldeman continued. “But that’s essentially off-campus,
so it doesn’t count.”

Despite the obvious setbacks of pronouncing a three-syllable dorm name on a day-to-day basis, some students seem more open-minded. “I’m
all for change,” said second-floor resident Randy Bradley ’05. “Now that it’s Tomlinson do we still have to clean the
bathrooms?”

Needless to say, West and his family aren’t exactly leaving the situation without any hard feelings. “Why don’t they just
call it ‘Reallyreallylongname dorm’ or ‘Antidisestablishmentarianblahblah dorm,’ or, you know what I mean, that really long word in the dictionary?”
West said. “Whatever, I just hope Dr. B and Mrs. F are reading this. Because watch out guys—you’re next!”

Tomlinson: A monument to dorms with really long, three-syllable names

ABOVE: Signs such as this one, which remain on campus despite West’s rededication this fall, have suggested to some that
Tomlinson was only joking about the building renaming. He wasn’t.

HONOR from page 1

“...all,” commented Jessie Kochell ’07. “But is telling me about it so important that he needs to wait in my
room for me while I’m in the shower?”

Remaining dedicated to his charge, Ennis has vowed to continue his visits to the hall, especially during those hours the
Honor Code is most “in jeopardy,” such as just before bedtime, at any time alcohol is involved, and during pillow
fights. “My girls are really important to me,” said Ennis. “I just want to make sure that if they’re ever
tempted to compromise their values, they know to come to me first.”

CHRIST from page 1

...bid the selection of...non-Christian deities, as well as Christian deities of non-Christian birth. The enforcement of the Christian requirement comes
despite Christ’s very impressive resume, which highlighted such accomplishments as a long history of political activism, a life led entirely
without sin, and considerable experience in casting out demons. Christ also produced a number of high-level references, including The Pope,
George W. Bush, Isaiah 7:14, Martin Luther, Martin Luther King, Larry King, God, and College Chaplain Rob Spach. Christ’s failure
to obtain the Trustee position has raised a flurry of reaction among students, many of whom were protesting the all-Christian
requirement long before Christ even applied for the job.

“I haven’t been to church since I got here four years ago, but what they’re doing to Jesus just isn’t
right,” said Chad Smyth ’04. “Someone should really do something about it. Well, I gotta run to class.” Yet even
despite visible opposition, members of the board continue to maintain the Christian requirement is vital to the school’s mission. “It
is natural and desirable that the educational service of a church-related college should be carried forward from one generation to
another by persons committed to the Christian faith,” commented Flank, quoting proudly from memory Article IV of the board’s bylaws.
“I fail to see why everyone thinks this is such a problem. Why, it’s thanks to the Christian-membership requirement that
we were recently able to deny Satan. And even Michael Jackson.”

Flank went on to explain that the trustees are in fact more diverse than most critics realize. “Thirty years ago,
the number of non-males and non-whites with seats was substantially smaller,” he said. “Now, I’m pretty sure we have at
least one black guy. And my mom and wife are on the board, and they’re definitely women.”

Apart from the Judaism consideration, several members of the board took issue with the fact that Christ never graduated from
Davidson, and thus might not possess a sufficient capacity of love for the school and its community. The alumni requirement
is not essential, however, and can be bypassed by non-graduates who demonstrate their relationship to the college by sending children
to Davidson, employing Davidson graduates, possessing expertise in a field relevant to Davidson’s needs, or having enormous butt-loads of cash.

“Students often forget that Trustees contribute a significant amount of financial resources to this community,” said Flank. “It just didn’t
seem that Christ had too much to offer in that regard. He didn’t even dress nicely.”

“Honestly, we were a little put-off by his whole ‘pay unto Vagt what is Vagt’s’ line, and his check for
the ‘Treasury of Merit’ looked pretty rubbery, if you ask me,” Flank continued. “I will admit, though, he would have
made one hell of a liberal Jewish Convocation speaker. Move over Al Franken.”

A lack of association with Davidson has come as a disappointment to Christ, who hoped to offer the school community
such long-term benefits as eternal and everlasting salvation, the total absolution of sins, and an ambitious three-year facility renovation project.
His grace would have extended particularly to the residents of Richardson dorm, as He understands what it’s like for “man
to call home a space fit for beasts.”

For the moment, Christ’s plans remain uncertain, though there has been some speculation He will seek membership on the board
of trustees at neighboring Appalachian State University, which has no Christian-membership requirement, or for that matter any requirement of any
kind. Though He is able to forgive the Davidson community through the greater grace of God, Christ is still leaving
rather embittered. “I must protest this decision,” He said. “It is an abomination in the eyes of Me. But oh
well, I suppose this isn’t the first time I’ve been persecuted by the Gentiles.”

Christ then proceeded to walk across the surface of the Roosevelt Park lake and resurrect a battered goose carcass before
finally wandering onto the shoulder of I-77. Neither the Father nor the Holy Ghost could be reached for comment.
