THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Volleyball picks up two wins in Arizona

By Wilson McCrory
Sports Editor

Davidson continued its early-season struggles in the first two games of the LaQuinta/Northern Arizona Invitational, falling to Akron and UC Riverside, but recovered to win the final two games of the tournament against host Northern Arizona and Rider to record the first two victories of the young season.

Davidson opened play on Friday against Akron (5-1), who dominated on offense to take a 3-0 (30-20, 30-22, 30-22) victory over the 'Cats. Jenna Dykstra ’07 hit .778 with 28 assists and seven kills on the day, and Liz Williamson ’07 tallied 11 kills, but their efforts were not enough to propel an otherwise anemic Wildcat offense. Overall, Davidson hit just .138 for the match, while Akron hit over .400 in all three games.

In the second half of the double-header, Davidson hung tough with UC Riverside (5-1), taking the first game from the Highlanders 30-28, and nearly grabbing a 2-0 lead in the second frame before falling 30-27. The Wildcats were unable to muster much offense in the third and fourth games, however, as Davidson had a -.013 attack percentage in the next two frames for a 3-1 loss.

Davidson rebounded on the second day of the tournament, however, claiming victories over Northern Arizona and Rider to improve to 2-7 on the season.

The Wildcats swept Northern Arizona 3-0 (30-26, 30-25, 30-24) in the first game on Saturday, and were paced by freshman Kate Pierucci, who tallied 14 kills on a .400 attack percentage.

Dykstra, meanwhile, posted 40 of the 43 Wildcat assists for the match, and Lindsay Woeste ’08 notched 10 digs.

Katie Pierucci ’08 and Jenna Dykstra ’07 team up for the block.

The Wildcats also felt relieved after their first victory in eight tries, as Kate Pierucci ’08 said after the win, “It felt great. The first one is always the hardest so it was great to get it out of the way. All the hard work from preseason on finally paid off.”

In the final game of the tournament, the Wildcats posted a 3-1 (30-26, 30-17, 25-30, 30-27) victory over the Rider Broncos. The ’Cats hit a season-high .257 for the match, including 20 kills for Williamson. Dykstra posted an incredible 50 assists in the match, and senior Tamara Gallen ’05 registered 20 digs.

Dykstra was the only Wildcat selected to the All-Tournament team, with an average of 36 assists per game over the weekend.

Despite a 2-2 split on the weekend, the Wildcats returned home encouraged by the tournament results, as Pierucci says, “We finally found some type of chemistry, and it just came together. We started working well, and we should be able to keep it up all year.”

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2004

13

from Woods, page 12

rankings, and is third on the money list this year despite only one victory, but his playing is best described as erratic since he last won a major at the 2002 U.S. Open. He has made more headlines for his engagement, his return to the Titleist driver and his feud with former coach Butch Harmon than any low number on the scoreboard.

But he is still the torch-bearer for golf, and needs to be at the top of the game.

Vijay Singh, while an incredible player, cannot carry golf in a way Tiger can. He does make news, but more often than not it has nothing to do with his golf game. He is notoriously stand-offish from the media and fans alike.

Singh is almost as noted for his blatantly sexist comments against Annika Sorenstam before the Colonial last year as he is for his swing.

Mickelson and Els are slightly more charismatic, and also have games to match Singh’s, but they too will never have the star-power that Tiger has on tour. When Mickelson, for example, won his first major in dramatic fashion this past spring at The Masters with a thrilling birdie on the 72nd green, viewership was still down 17 percent from last year and 50 percent from Tiger’s ’97 win.

Vijay, Els and Mickelson will continue to make compelling golf by being at the top of leaderboards, but this week, as golf reaches its biggest international stage at the Ryder Cup, Tiger needs to begin the reclamation of his once insurmountable throne. No more talk about progress, and how his swing feels better than ever.

Whether he needs to make up with Harmon, dump Elin, or go back to Titleist, Tiger has to shine this week at Oakland Hills and next year on the Tour. Golf desperately needs the return of the fist-pump, the thrashing swing, and red in the final group on Sunday.