8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING

Creative Type: Frank Chemotti fills lonely airways with audio oddities

By Andy Martin
Arts & Living Editor

An interview with Frank Chemotti ’05 of Cedarburg, WI a few nights ago had the odd air of one of those park bench meetings between Cold War secret agents that you see from time to time in spy movies. The night was certainly not as cold as the Minsk or Moscow of the movies, but a fall chill forced my hands into my pockets and had me ducking behind one of the library’s columns as I waited for Chemotti to arrive for the interview.

A stray smoker or two sat under the eaves opposite me. A girl twenty yards away under the big tree on the library green was on what sounded like a late-night phone call to a distant and misbehaving boyfriend and she struggled not to shout into her mobile phone. For the most part, though, I was alone. I found myself checking over my shoulders, watching my back as if some kind of a dirty but profound metaphysical secret were about to be passed my way.

Presently, a tall thin figure appeared walking around the north side of Chambers, framed by the electric yellow lamplight of the light posts lining the red brick walkway. He was caught between a wintry gust and the building’s northern exposure and his own hands were shoved deep into his pockets. As the figure closed the distance between us rapidly with a long and measured gait, I made out the burgundy fleece jacket, neatly creased khakis, and gray tennis shoes that are a trademark of Frank Chemotti, the campus disc jockey whose sly, reserved bearing and delightfully peculiar radio show have made him into something of a cult figure at college. Five more steps and Chemotti was in front of me, grinning a knowing grin, hands still in pockets.

We sat next to each other on one of the hard, wooden benches outside the library and exchanged some stiff formalities. I fumbled with a tape recorder brought along for the interview until I managed to clumsily click it on. Being that it was a new tape recorder (and being that I am mechanically inept) I was unsure of how exactly to operate the simple device. At one point Chemotti, chuckling, took it from me and gave it a once over to make sure I wasn’t bungling anything. He assured me I was in fact tape recording our conversation and handed the recorder back to me.

Devoted readers of this publication will know that Chemotti and his radio show have appeared previously in these pages. He was not, he says, entirely satisfied with the result of that interview.

“It was stupid questions,” says Chemotti in a thoughtful, measured tone. “I don’t remember it very well. It was mostly about things I liked. Foods I liked. Where I was from. I don’t know—it wasn’t very in-depth. I was kind of disappointed.”

Every Monday night at 9 p.m. on Davidson’s WALT 1600, Chemotti hosts “Contused,” one hour of conceptual and experimental music. “I picked that name because I play the Stevie Wonder song ‘Contusion’ at the beginning of every show. And I play generally electronic and experimental music,” says Chemotti. “I like to play things that are kind of as far out as I can find in contrast to a lot of the other radio shows, which I find very boring. So I try to challenge my audience.”

The music has been so challenging at times as to make the airwaves a little lonely—the listenership of “Contused” is certainly not what one might describe as large and sometimes one gets the feeling that the DJ would prefer it that way. “About two weeks ago I did a little test of my audience,” a characteristically deadpan Chemotti quips, “I didn’t do a show.” And did he get a lot of complaints? “Not one word. Nobody missed it.”

Chemotti has a passionate interest in the sequencing and selection of music on his show and in conversation it is clear that he understands this as an artistic contribution of his own. “Usually in the second half of the show I do what I call a ‘free set’ in which I just kind of open up the format for me to just play whatever I want. I try to mix sounds together, play what I think would sound good together,” he says. “I also just kind of got bored with choosing the order of my songs to play and, you know, pushing the buttons exactly when I’m supposed to. I take risks, I make mistakes; it’s more exciting and hopefully it’s more exciting to listen to.”

Chemotti is also a pianist (he’s played since he was 5), though he mostly now plays in spare time. “I have a few pieces that I’m still working on. I guess I just tend to play piano when I’m bored and don’t have other things to do.” He says, though, that he still prefers to work on a couple of pieces by Ravel these days. He has also composed some experimental electronic pieces on his own—“I guess I still have a mind for it.”

A mathematics major, Chemotti has plans to continue on to graduate school in pure mathematics next year in “a big city.” Chemotti cites mathematics as an influence on his work in the WALT booth. “I guess it has removed any fear of the abstract I might have had previously. In mathematics, I don’t care about working with concrete objects. I can work with just letters and sets. And my music doesn’t have to have lyrics or identifiable sounds that match up with this world.”

STSTRAVEL.COM

Join America’s #1 Student Tour Operator

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2004

All Students, Faculty, and Staff receive 20% off with CatCard!