The Davidsonian
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2004
First Class U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1 Davidson, NC
VOLUME 95, NUMBER 18

4.9% tuition increase approved for 2004-05
By ADAM MARTIN
Senior Staff Writer

The Board of Trustees recently approved the 2004-2005 budget, which, among other things, calls for a 4.9 percent tuition increase, raising tuition to $27,172 for next fall.

“Overall, the budget funds our highest priorities,” said President Bobby Vagt of the new $71.2 million budget, up from $68.5 million. “We have moderate increases across the board - the largest being in Academic Affairs, no personnel cutbacks, and we saved significantly due to energy, mailing, and printing efficiency,” Vagt said.

Budget increases resulted not from any significant new programming but from the summation of many small increases to the college’s current programs. In addition to inflation, Vagt cited the rising costs of healthcare as a major contributor to the rising budget, given that 70 percent of the budget covers compensation and benefits for all the college’s employees, including the administration, faculty, and staff.

“Davidson has achieved medians for non-faculty staff according to U.S. News and World Report, but we are continuing to strive for medians for faculty,” said Vagt.

Vice President of Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty Clark Ross said the five percent increase in Academic Affairs went mostly to the general book fund for the library, as several sources indicate that journal subscription prices are rising at about 10 percent per year. Ross admits that the increase in the library book fund will really only allow the college to retain subscriptions to the current periodicals that are needed to maintain academic quality.

The general fund for faculty salaries did increase slightly. However, at this point, the “exact amount that will be rewarded to re-

see Budget, page 4

THE MIGHTY THREE
College Bowl team qualifies for Nationals
By LOUIE BECKER
Special Contributor

Last semester’s campus-wide College Bowl tournament provided a memorable diversion for more than a hundred of Davidson’s trivia fanatics. But while most of the contestants have by now moved on from that annual event and returned to the Davidson grind, five of them have remained in the thrall of high-speed academic competition.

College Bowl team members Austin Mercadante ’06, Rob Correll ’07, Louie Becker ’04, and Chris Thawley ’04 ponder a question at one of their tournaments.

Got a question? Ask Joel.
YOWL, PAGE 9

Although this kind of devotion might be called unstable, it has proven itself to pay off. After the campus tournament, College Bowl veteran and planned giving officer James Gibert ’79 selected a team of eight all-stars to train for intercollegiate competition. After playing through large piles of old and new practice questions, five of the team members, Rob Correll ’07, Bryant Kirkland ’07, Austin Mercadante ’06, Chris Thawley ’04, and Louie Becker ’04, traveled over the mountains to the Southeast Regional College Bowl tournament in Knoxville, Tenn. last weekend. Although team members Rob Neumann ’04, Sean Brooks ’04, and Erin Meyer ’06 were unable to make the trip, they nonetheless madeinvaluable contributions to the team’s preparation. In Knoxville, the team maneuvered through a grueling schedule—a 14-team round-robin, followed by a double elimination tournament of the top four teams. The competition ran from 8:00 p.m. until midnight Friday, and resumed at 8:30 the next morning. “With only a break for lunch and a few bye rounds, the teams played pretty much around the clock,” Kirkland said. Thawley, playing through a cold, called it “one of the most intensely mentally taxing periods of the past semester.” Through it all, Davidson was aided by their well-balanced approach, which allowed one player to rotate out of each match and avoid burnout. While other teams relied heavily on the contributions of one or two players, Davidson’s team forsook individual glory for the success of the whole. “What distinguishes these guys is that they work so well together,” Gibert said. “Their personalities and skills complement each other unusually well. Everyone contributes, and that is why we win so consistently.” The team may also have been aided by Mercadante’s predictive ability; team members noted jokingly that

see Bowl, page 4

Peeping Tom caught at Akers Hall
By Blevin Shelnutt
Senior Staff Writer

On Monday evening at about 11:30, a student notified the Campus Police of a suspicious man lingering outside of Akers Hall. After apprehending the man, the campus police officers recognized him as an individual with an extensive criminal record concerning “Peeping Tom” incidents. “He’s an individual that we were already familiar with from activity within the town of Cornelius,” said Davidson College Director of Public Safety and Police Fountain Walker. Walker said that he was not aware the man is residing in Davidson and believes this to be the first time he has been on campus. Walker added that he has notified the surrounding police departments of the man’s activity and that Campus Safety is now on “high alert.”

“‘High alert’ means that if we see him again on this campus, he goes to jail,” said Walker.

It was less than a year ago that a similar incident occurred at the same dorm. Last March, an intruder entered an unlocked bedroom in Akers and began cutting a female student’s pajamas open. She awoke during the ordeal, frightening him away. Male students pursued him across campus until Campus Safety was able to act. Even though the intruder was later caught, the event highlighted how easily intruders could gain access to many college buildings. Despite the similarity of these two incidents, Walker says that there is nothing particularly unsafe about the sophomore apartments. However, he encourages students to lock their doors at night. “It’s only a small percentage of people who come on campus who have bad intentions, but students still need to take precautions to protect themselves from them,” said Walker.

Echoing Walker’s remarks, Director of Residence Leslie Marsicano sent an email to all students Tuesday morning, warning them to keep an eye out for future intruders.

NEWS: Plans for town charter school underway
Courting on the Court: a love story
PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 11
Art at Davidson: Have you noticed it?
A&E, PAGE 7