THE DAVIDSONIAN
Arts & LIVING
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004

Battle over the boob: Janet, Justin, CBS (and TiVo)
By KAYLEEN HARTMAN
Senior Staff Writer

If our modern political atmosphere can be divided into Pre-9/11 and Post-9/11 spheres, I think it fair to assume that
in the entertainment industry we can identify two distinct eras of pop culture: Pre- and Post-Boob. Just as the attacks
of September 11 have been pivotal in the identification of our nation’s political enemies—Saddam Hussein, Osama bin Laden et al.—the
exposure of Janet Jackson’s breast to 140 million American victims has been instrumental in creating opposing camps within entertainment and
pop culture. Boobs, it seems, are the national enemy and we must unite to keep mammary glands and all that
they represent out of the public eye.

Startlingly, the 9/11 comparison isn’t one of my usual thinly constructed metaphors. As a society, our level of disturbance over
the unsheathing rated comparably to 9/11 and its wake. The Lycos 50 Daily Report (published shortly after the Big Boob
Incident) suggests that the total number of internet searches related to the unfortunate “wardrobe malfunction” is equaled only by the
total number of searches related to the September 11 attacks. If this is the train wreck of morally catastrophic proportions
that the reactionaries would have us believe, it is clearly one we are unwilling to ignore.

The Monday morning following the MTV Super Bowl Halftime Show, Michael Powell, the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, announced
an investigation into the evening’s shocking events to establish the extent of the law that had been violated. “We all
as a society have a responsibility as to what the images and messages our children hear when they’re likely to
be watching television,” Powell pontificated. He went on to explain how the incident followed America’s greater struggle for the moral
high ground. “I don’t think I’m being moralistic, and I don’t think that’s government trying to tell people how to
run their business. I don’t think you need to be a lawyer to understand the basic concepts of common decency
here.”

CBS, of course, denies any prior knowledge of the incident, Justin claims all he expected to unleash was a red
lacy corset, and Janet is very, very sorry. Country, corporation, and coquette grapple together to support and mold the nation’s
threshold for public indecency in the name of good showmanship—and salesmanship. Incidentally, the stock price of Viacom, the parent company
of CBS, rose more than 1 percent the very next day. Janet’s “Miss Janet” international fan club website received so
many hits that it was temporarily taken down.

E-bay ‘Capacitor’ dances in Duke
By CHRISTINE HAYCOOK
Special Contributor

Critics would agree that this Friday night at 8 pm in the Duke Performance Hall will be an overwhelmingly stimulating
sensory performance. “Capacitor” was originally established in 1997 in San Francisco through the creative minds of professionals from varying fields—dancers,
engineers, scientists, and philosophers—to develop understandings of science, technology, and human form coexisting in the modern world. The creative laboratory
behind the scenes focused on the design of the show as one meant to “stretch the limits of physical poetry.”
The repertory of performances, of which there are several—“Digging in the Dark,” “Avatars,” “Within Outer Space,” to name a few—embody
different ideas (ranging from the creation of the universe to the modern phenomenon of video gaming) that are all constructed
to provoke intellectual thinking and encourage dialogues on the subject matter.

This type of theatre is made to engage the audience: to provide not only a visually entertaining and stimulating performance,
but to stimulate the mind of the audience, not only during the performance, but well after the show has ended.
“Capacitor” utilizes performances in dance, martial arts, fire stunts, circus juggling, acrobatics and large-scale props to create a setting that
spellbinds the audience and stands apart from this usual world. By creating somewhat of a separate “other world,” the artists
are given a platform on which to raise questions and promote discussions on the bounds of technology within this world.

“Capacitor” is a performance not to miss. If you have not, nor have you any intention of seeing an Artist
Series production at Davidson College, let this be your exception. “Capacitor” is not a show, but an experience—something so different
and unique that it can only be adequately described through the eyes of the audience. Tickets are still available for
the one showing at 8 p.m. on Friday, February 13 in the Duke Performance Hall. Master classes in modern dance
and ballet and Capoeira—a martial arts form—will be offered free of charge on Saturday, February 14.

Grammys, from page 6
appearance. Or consider the mirage-like appearance of Andre 3000, accepting the award for Best Rap Album. The camera swung around
the audience searching for Andre as if a drunken “Price Is Right” cinematographer directed it. When he finally made it
to the stage, he thanked no one. So thank you, Andre 3000. Celebrity car wrecks also occur with far more
alacrity on the red carpet. In fact, theRed carpet is fashion’s answer to our own Interstate-77. Setting the standard for
all time is JLo’s sheer jungle-print housecoat that buttoned solely at the crotch—you think they would’ve noticed that at the
couture factory, but no. But this year, instead of spearheading the next big trend in chinoiserie/Goth/Kabbalah strings, Madonna actually looked
good in an already-trendy pink satin slip dress. Lil’ Kim went her usual route of choosing an outfit by first
smoking crack and then opening up her closet. And John Mayer remained the world’s most boring man by accessorizing his
tux with—gasp!—a pale pink tie! Unfortunately, no real entertainment value could be gleaned from this year’s Grammys because the whole
thing was on a five-minute time delay (in case of the need for censorship). Damn Janet and her errant boob.
In a post-award’s show press conference, however, CBS reps stated that after a careful five-minute deliberation, Beyonce’s panties were deemed
a necessary and decorous addition to her ostrich-feather miniskirt.

But despite the sublimely ridiculous nature of award shows, despite ugly trophies for doubtfully “best” performances, despite Christina Aguilera’s hair
looking much like mildewed anchor rope, the Grammys went on. The show could not be conquered, not by rain, wind,
nor snow—and it certainly was a nasty winter night out in California. Wait, wait, that wasn’t real snow. Just Adelphia.
Now sells “Janet’s breast nipple solar-time jewelry” for $14 and, on the pricier end, the “Nipple Medallion” sells for $19,995
out of Palm Bay, FL. So far no one has actually bid. It seems like the old maxim “there’s no
such thing as bad publicity” retains increasing value. So who, besides a slowly recovering American public, will really suffer as
a result of Justin and Janet’s indiscretion? Well, Janet lost her gig on Sunday night’s Grammys and once this FCC
investigation business is all said and done, CBS is looking at fines reaching $550,000. The FCC, which received a total
of 240,000 complaints all last year, received 200,000 in response to the halftime show alone. Fear not, Congress has already
set the wheels in motion to release a brand new set of decency standards to protect America’s children from nipples
and nipple medallions alike. The FCC has already been facing pressure to justify former rulings based on current standards. One
of the cases in question involves performer Bono using the word “f—ing” on cable TV and getting away with it.
The explanation given? The word was used as an adjective and not as a synonym for copulation. And of course,
there is NBC who, in the wake of last Sunday’s nipple attacks, declined to air a segment of “ER” that
inadvertently showed the bare naked breast of a 60-year-old woman on an operating table. Mammary moralists of the world, unite!
Although executives and producers agreed that the scene in question was “appropriate and in context,” the atmosphere in the entertainment
industry was enough to make them think twice about giving the kiddies an eyeful of grandma’s teat. CBS’s notion of
censorship can only be described as arbitrary. Just months ago, they refused to air a movie based on the life
of Ronald Reagan because they found the biography more critical than the current climate would allow. More recently, during that
same Super Bowl, the network refused to air an ad critical of Bush’s tax cuts sponsored by MoveOn.org. The ad
was deemed controversial and critical of the Bush administration, and the network claimed they had a blanket policy against “issue”
ads. The network then agreed to air a taxpayer-funded ad supporting the Bush administration’s Medicare plan. When MoveOn.org crafted a
response ad, CBS refused to air it.

I watched the halftime show while babysitting. I was sitting in the living room, flipping through an issue of “People,”
nestled in between a five-year-old, two eight-year-olds, a 12-year-old, and a 13-year-old. I am in general, a Janet Jackson fan—particularly
of the era of music from which she performed—but the performance was so thoroughly lacking in entertainment value, that by
the time she popped out her boob, none of us even noticed. Which brings me to my nagging suspicion that
the barrage of media events we've been subjected to, from the Britney/Madonna kiss to the Bennifer breakup, are just the
smoke and mirrors covering up the really big scandal in the entertainment industry. My hypothesis, confirmed by the recent self-aggrandizing
hollow antics of this week’s Grammys, is that we’ve simply run out of talent. We’ve placed such dire importance on
whose fireworks explode the brightest and whose bums and biceps are the tautest that we forgot to make sure we
had something to listen to while we’re watching all the glitz and glamour flash before our eyes. Sure, sure, we’re
all going to hell in a handbasket, but even Nero had a decent musical accompaniment as he watched his empire
burn. Shrug. Too bad for our generation. At least we’ve got TiVo.
