THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidsonian delivered SEE PAGE 3

Futon mattress flipped Volleyball team digs themselves into hole SEE PAGE 7

New vending machines threaten Soda Shop monopoly SEE PAGE 16

Alum still on campus SEE PAGE 11

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

Parking Garage

This year, more Davidson students have registered vehicles on campus than ever before. With the increased number of cars on campus has come a corresponding requirement for places to park those cars. The answer to their needs: Little Dormitory.

In response to numerous student complaints, the administration formed a Parking Committee consisting of six members of the faculty, the SGA president, and the College President. After deliberations with various student leaders, the Parking Committee presented their recommendations to the Board of Trustees, and their plan was quickly approved. Their choice of location, however, has brought with it some controversy; the proposed location for the new parking garage is on the site where the E.H. Little Dormitory is currently located.

While most of the outside of Little will look the same, the wall facing the Watts Dormitory will be opened up, and the entire interior will be gutted in order to create a three-story parking structure which the administration says should hold seventy-five vehicles. Parking will also be permitted on the roof. Furthermore, in order to compensate for the loss of campus housing caused by the loss of Little Dormitory, the Preyer building will be converted into freshmen substance-free housing.

The college is hoping to begin work as soon as possible and claims that neither inhabitants of Little nor faculty who have offices in Preyer should be bothered by the construction. They plan to have Preyer open to house students by the beginning of the 2005-2006 school year and expect that the Little dormitory structure will be ready for parking by November of 2005.

SGA president Mark Wilson ’05 believes this move will be tremendously beneficial. “Parking has been a major issue for the student body for a while now, and it’s great to finally be able to begin to fix that problem,” stated Mark. “The new parking garage, tentatively titled ‘the Belk Satellite E.H. Little Parking Garage,’ will be a great addition to our campus.”

CAMPUS VOICES

What happened to Davidson?
August I. Wallace IV Class of '46

This is about the hundredth time I’ve been back to old Davidson for homecoming, and I think it’s about time I spoke up about all the changes that have gone on here over the last 60 years. The most glaring difference is that the school has been invaded by Yankees. Especially them liberal ones. When I was here, you can bet your rear that we didn’t have no Young Democrats club on campus. Back in the day, if you even mentioned FDR, you would get rocks thrown at you. We didn’t have no New Yorkers neither. We could schedule homecoming games whenever we damn well pleased. In fact, we used to schedule homecoming on Yom Kippur on purpose. That’s how you knew when homecoming was. We had stuff in the honor code about them. That’s another thing. The honor code has gone completely soft. All those old provisions are gone. Now I can’t even tell if it’s the honor code or the pansy code. Heck, it was against the honor code to use ballpoint pens. Now you're allowed to use those dang-blasted computers even. Back in the day, we didn’t have any stinking Belk Computer Lab. We just had a room full of typewriters, not even nice ones. We called it the “typin’ and smoke room.” It was so full of cigar smoke you could barely see what you were typing. But it didn’t matter so much, because back then the school was a lot harder. We didn’t have no 24-hour library room, cause back then, we were so tired from our marching drills that we couldn’t stay up past ten o’clock. Even if we could get some extra energy, it didn’t matter nothing, cause there were none of these electric lights in the dorms. In our dorms we had to...sleep on cots. No mattresses neither, just wooden boards on cots. I saw that these kids get real beds with springs. Yet, these ungrateful youngsters still yappity-yap about every dang thing. I heard somebody complaining that the laundry ruined their clothes. In my day, they washed the clothes in the river. They complain about the cable? The only entertainment we had was when we would make freshmen perform vaudeville shows. Bats in the dorms? We had bats flying around our rooms. One night, I couldn’t even get onto my cot, cause there were all those doggone bats nesting on the board. With all that stuff going on, we didn’t worry ‘bout reviews or papers nearly as much as the poindexters that go here now. Heck, our application didn’t have no essay, which was dang good, because part of the test back then required you to fight in 2 years in a World War. Speakin’ of fight. Our football team had it. We beat the Bulldogs. No, not Butler, darn it. Georgia. And we always wore suits to the games, especially if we brought ladies. Ladies. That’s the one area the school is better in now. I saw the girls in their sundresses last weekend, and let me tell you, they were lookin’ mighty pretty. In fact, we didn’t even have girls here. I didn’t even see a girl for the first three years I was here. I went and ate at that newfangled Commons and heard some youngsters complaining in line about the food. So I pretended to trip and smacked them across the back of the knee with my cane. I hate hearin’ complaining about the food. All we had was salted pork and crackers at the commons. For drink, we had whiskey. None of those fancy fruits or vegetables, at least not till my freshman roommate came down with scurvy. We didn’t have none of this foreigner food like quesadillas. Next thing you know, this place is gonna be Vassar. If that’s what you want, be my guest, but I ain’t never coming back for homecoming unless there’s more pretty girls next time.

September 29, 2004

Artist’s sketch of the proposed parking facility

"Garage will be in a great location. Its location next to the Watts Dormitory will make it the closest parking option to Chambers.” Hector Trimble, Dean of Students and head of the Parking Committee explained the committee’s rationale for their decision: “Students have been complaining about the sizable distance between Satellite parking and the rest of campus. Some people also blame the break-ins that occur in Satellite parking on its remote location. This new parking garage should provide for a significant decrease in a student’s average walking distance per day as well as more security, since its location is on Dormitory Row. Plus, we are going to put video cameras all over the place.”

Some see the biggest benefit of the plan as the conversion of the Preyer building, located across Concord Road, into freshmen substance-free housing. The plan is said to provide those who choose to live in substance-free housing with more quiet hours, and an even more isolated dormitory. “It will be much easier for the inhabitants of the dorm to have the quiet college experience they need if they are further away from all the loud happenings of the rest of campus,” said Trimble. “It is a win-win situation. We get a new parking lot closer to campus and the sub-free freshmen will have a more ideal dorm. And we could sell the names of the new dorm and parking lot to help defray the construction costs.”

Others, however, are against the idea of a new parking lot. Said George Michan ’08, “I came to Davidson for the small classes, great professors, honor code, and its beautiful oak-filled campus. I didn’t come for convenient parking. What’s next, parking on Chambers Lawn?” Environmental Action Committee president Burt Edwards ’05 claimed, “If we keep accommodating for more cars, we'll keep getting more and more cars on campus. It’s a never-ending cycle. Soon we'll have to tear down the cross-country trails or even Alumni Stadium to make more parking lots. Eventually, the whole campus will be one big parking lot.”

Now hiring disgraced journalists
Classier than the New Yorker
More fun than the National Enquirer
More reliable than the Wall Street Journal
Contact brparets@davidson.edu with your ideas

Davidson College Record Book
Printed in Belk Computer Lab: 5325 Pages