Staff Editorial

Gaining strength by examining weakness

Davidson has struggled for a long time with how best to take a traditionally white college in a small southern town and turn it into a diverse society representative of the world its graduates will soon enter. Recently, the administration took a step that, if instituted correctly, could lead the way towards making Davidson a much more diverse institution than it is today.

As reported this week in The Davidsonian, the administration recently invited two faculty members from peer institutions to come and discuss ways in which the College could better recruit minority faculty members to Davidson. Among the suggestions offered was to create more flexible curricula in order to offer courses that might better fit in with the academic interests of a more diverse faculty.

Davidson’s faculty must certainly rank among the best in academia, not only as influential researchers but also as teachers who, for the most part, care a great deal about their students. Yet as strong as our faculty is, its diversity, particularly in terms of race, has never been what it can and should be. The recruitment of minority faculty has been among Davidson’s greatest weaknesses in achieving true diversity throughout the entire school.

Minority faculty members not only bring different experiences and interests to the school, but they also play a large role in attracting students who share those interests. Without minority faculty, how can Davidson expect to attract minority students? This move represents an admirable step in Davidson’s long struggle to create a school that more accurately reflects the diversity present in the world outside the Davidson bubble.

The great success Davidson has enjoyed over the past several decades in bringing more female faculty to the school shows how concerted efforts to bring about change can make a difference in increasing diversity. Today, a significant proportion of Davidson’s faculty and the majority of its students are women. Just over a quarter century ago, Davidson did not even admit women. Clearly, progress can be made, but only when we make every effort to examine rather than hide our problems. Placing issues such as faculty diversity in the open for all to see and discuss is the only way we may hope to solve such complex problems.

The administration should be commended for not just highlighting our strengths but also realizing and addressing our weaknesses. We can only hope that future problems will be examined with the same openness and determination.

The Davidsonian

Editor in Chief
David Crow

Managing Editors
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel

News Editors
Ruchi Turakhia & Sarah-Grace Wesley

Perspectives Editor
Zach Williams

Arts & Living Editors
Cannon Hodge & Chris Schmader

Yow! Editor
Colin Eagan

Sports Editors
Peter Allison & Mike Giglio

THE DAVIDSONIAN - WEDNESDAY, February 4, 2004

FAMILY MOVED FROM Patent Sweater
Ali Fitzgerald

30 AFTER. THE AND UM. THAT’S IT—MRS. FRANKSTEIN, THE POTATO WENT TO CONEY

Sick of this anti-Irish bigotry. I simply won’t stand for it. Oh, go tell it to the bottom of a root-beer.

Make an impact on Davidson’s policies

Every other year the Committee on Campus and Religious Life undertakes a review of the Alcohol and Illegal Drug Use Policy. A sub-committee of the CCRL, chaired by Associate Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano,will undertake this review and submit their recommendations, if any, to the CCRL for discussion. This committee will include students, faculty, and staff. Any suggested changes in the Alcohol and Illegal Drug Policy approved by CCRL will be submitted to the President for his consideration. I often hear from students that there is little opportunity to impact how policies are developed at Davidson. Whether you are a student, faculty, or staff member, this is your chance to do so. If you have any thoughts about either of these policies, please email Leslie Marsicano (lemarsicano@davidson.edu) with your suggestions. Thank you!

Thomas C. Shandley
Vice President for Student Life and Dean of Students

UNCC’s Army ROTC Dining-Out

The Army Dining-Out is a tradition in the Army that the cadets in the 49er battalion maintain. The Dining-Out normally takes place during the spring semester. The cadets and cadre wear their dress uniforms and are accompanied by their spouses or dates for a night filled with military protocol and tradition, humor, skits, unexpected surprises, dinner, and dancing. The University of North Carolina at Charlotte 49er Battalion will hold this year’s annual Dining-Out at The Adam’s Mark Hotel, Charlotte, North Carolina, at six o’clock, Friday evening, February 20, 2004. It will be a great opportunity for cadets from Gardner-Webb University, Johnson C. Smith University, Davidson College, Belmont Abbey College, Winthrop University, Catawba College, Wingate University, and the University of North Carolina at Charlotte to mingle in a social setting and experience another dynamic aspect of Army life.

Amanda Yeck ’04

Connor House to raise breast cancer awareness

Connor House will continue its annual spring benefit, Bosom Buddies, to raise money for breast cancer research. We are also putting together a collection of personal stories and photographs from individuals who have dealt with breast cancer to display at the dinner and in the Alvarez Student Union. Our hope is to emphasize how the disease affects the members of our community and the victim’s family and friends. Stories from the patients themselves as well as from their family members and friends will help to raise the Davidson community’s awareness of this prevalent disease. We realize this is a personal matter but would like to encourage any Davidson community members who are comfortable to share their stories. We will interview those who are interested in participating about their experiences with breast cancer and we will choose a particular section of the interview that really struck us to display in our exhibit. Next to the narratives, we will display black and white photos of the participant and their family or friend(s) so observers can put a face to the stories. The photos and quotations will be exhibited on a display board at the Connor Bosom Buddies annual spring dinner banquet and in the Student Alvarez Union. We’re hoping that the Davidson community will realize how close to home this disease really hits. Like all diseases, breast cancer affects friends and family, not just the patient. Moreover, we would like to emphasize the fact that men, too, are affected by breast cancer. If you are interested in sharing how breast cancer has affected you, please email Serra Aygun at seaygun@davidson.edu.

Serra Aygun ‘06

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor. Please e-mail submissions of less than 250 words to us. We reserve the right to edit for clarity and length.

A DOSA FILOSA, BY LAURA FILOSA

Ah, the Super Bowl!