14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Women’s Soccer Kicks Off
By Michael TELLIS
Staff Writer

After weathering a tough 2003 season, there is a definite sense of excitement from the women’s soccer team as it
opens its 2004 campaign in the midst of change. The 2003 season ended in disappointment, as the Wildcats were unable
to qualify for the Southern Conference tournament for the first time since the team’s inception after going 3-6-2 in conference
play, but the ’Cats hope to improve upon that result this year and return to the top of the Southern
Conference.

The 2004 version of women’s soccer sports many new changes and faces, including a new coach, a new stadium, and
four new players that all hope to jump-start a proud program. Long-time Head Coach Kevin Hunley left the Davidson program
in the off-season, opening the door for new coach Greg Ashton, who previously headed up Division III Trinity University for
four years. Ashton was the epitome of success at Trinity, where he received the Southern Collegiate Athletic Conference’s Coach of
the Year honors and accumulated an impressive 71-8-2 record during his four-year stay.

Despite the difficulties of the 2003 season, the Wildcats open the 2004 year with optimism since they return almost every
player from a year ago. In particular, 2003 All-Conference midfielder Kara Koehrn ’06 and senior goalkeeper and co-captain Sarah Hobart
’05 look to form the core of a strong returning group. Koehrn led the Wildcats in points and goals last
year, with 15 and 7 respectively, and will again be called to make an impact on the offensive side of
the ball. Hobart, meanwhile, looks to build upon a solid 2003 season in which she registered 5 shutouts and continued
to climb up the Davidson record books. She ended the 2003 season second on the all-time list for minutes played,
with 5,002, as well as for saves, with 309, and will undoubtedly add stability to a solid defensive group. On
her expectations for her final season, Hobart says, “We just want to end with a feeling of satisfaction that everyone
has done the best that they could.”

On the whole, the ’Cats return eight starters from last year’s squad, and 20 players overall. Furthermore, Coach Ashton has
also signed a solid incoming class that includes Bevin English ’08, Nancy Haskell ’08 and Kristen Koehrn ’08, sister of
the junior All-Conference performer. The younger Koehrn impressed during her debut against Charlotte on Sunday, playing all ninety minutes of
the game.

The Wildcats’ progress will be tested early and often. They will face four teams, High Point, Wake Forest, Duke and
UNC Greensboro, that all qualified for the NCAA tournament play last year in the 2004 season. The Sept. 15 match-up
with High Point, in particular, will be an early barometer for the Wildcats. Once conference play begins, the Wildcats will
look to recover from last year’s disappointing performance, and again qualify for the postseason tournament after a one-year absence. The
team has also pointed to the Oct. 17 match-up with Furman as a highlight of the 2004 season, as the
’Cats look to avenge a disappointing 0-3 loss to the archrivals.from last year. The Wildcats opened the season with a
1-0 victory over Charlotte, their first-ever victory over the cross-town rivals, and will next travel to California for some West
Coast competition in two showdowns with San Diego State and UC Riverside. Nahum Navas ’06 focused intently on the ball
in a preseason exhibition vs. Liberty.

From Men’s Soccer, page 13

...ing a school-high ten shutouts. Other defenders who contributed to the ’Cats stellar performance were Bart Creasman ’05, Ben Kittinger
’05, Joey Bass ’05, Nahum Navas ’06, and Will Carroll ’06. Though the result of the preseason finale against Liberty
was not in Davidson’s favor, it gave each player and the team as a whole the chance to see what
can be improved upon before the season-opener. One especially encouraging facet of this year’s team is the good chemistry that
is already evident so early in the season. “[My teammates] are a great bunch of guys, and we get along
both on and off the field,” said Creasman.

Even though Davidson loses little from its 2003 championship team, the media recently voted Davidson as only the third best
team in the Southern Conference behind UNC Greensboro and the College of Charleston, perhaps because of concerns about a consistent
offense. “We had a good spring season, a good summer training program, so we do feel ready [for the fall
season],” said Spear, who also admitted that “we need to build offense.” Still, it seems that there is certainly a
wealth of talent to fill that void, including returning sophomores Mac Wilkie ’07 and Marco Antunez ’07. Spear says “the
rankings show that other coaches do not respect our program, but that only motivates us.”

As always, Davidson will be tested throughout the season, as the 'Cats are prepared to play a difficult schedule that
includes five teams that finished in the Top-20 at the end of the 2003 season. UNC Greensboro and Charleston are
the programs to beat within the league, and Furman remains a contender despite its two losses to Davidson last year.
“Every game in the conference is a rivalry,” explains Spear. “We lost players, but so did everyone else.” Other big
games take place against South Carolina on September 29, Wake Forest on November 2, and cross-town rival Charlotte on November
5. Davidson’s home opener takes place against Marquette, picked sixth in the coaches’ poll of Conference U.S.A., on Wednesday at
7 p.m. in Richardson Stadium. Conference action begins September 26 at the College of Charleston.

Coach Spear regards the upcoming season with optimism but also with realism. “We don’t want to try to base our
expectations on last year’s success. We want to make our own story.”

Tickets on sale Now!
- Shaw and Nancy
Koresh Dance Company
Friday, September 10, 2004
- Chicago City Limits
Saturday, November 6, 2004

For tickets, call the Davidson College Union Ticket Office at 704-894-2135. Series packages at special rates are available through September
10.

- Bruce Wood Dance Company
Friday, January 28, 2005
- Poncho Sanchez
Latin Jazz Band
Saturday, April 9, 2005

Students, faculty, and staff discounts available, call the ticket office at ext. 2135.
