By Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

Judging by the preseason coaches’ rankings, the women’s tennis team’s post-College of Charleston schedule features a slew of second-tier teams until the final two matches of the season against Wofford and Furman. The conference results so far this season, however, have shown greater parity than expected, making every match a challenge. Five days after losing a tough match to the College of Charleston, the defending champion and conference favorite entering this spring season, the Wildcats hoped to return to their winning ways with three more conference matches in three days last weekend. After hosting the Chattanooga Mocs on Friday, the women traveled to East Tennessee State and Appalachian State on Saturday and Sunday, respectively. While they barely squeaked by Chattanooga in their opening match of the weekend with a performance below their standards, the ’Cats rebounded in the final two matches, proving that they belong among the top teams in the Southern Conference this year.

Friday’s match against Chattanooga figured to be one of the more challenging remaining matches this season for the Cats. Davidson got off to a great start in the doubles matches, attacking the Mocs in all three to gain early leads. Chattanooga fought back, though, and the Wildcats struggled to keep the pressure on their opponents. The first match was decided when Katherine Hatch ’04 and Sarah Borkowski ’05 fell short in their comeback attempt at number three, losing 8-6. Kelly and Meghan Fillnow ’05, at number one, were the next two Wildcats to leave the court, dominating their opponents in a tiebreaker after failing to close out the match earlier. The ever-important doubles point came down to court two, where Meggie Patterson ’05 and Lindsey Powel ’06 were in a back-and-forth battle. Unable to match their opponents’ consistency, the two fell short, losing in a tiebreaker. “We had the better doubles teams,” stated assistant coach Kelley Cantrell. Davidson could just as easily have swept the three doubles matches, and the women carried this confidence into the singles competition, where they needed to win at least four matches.

see Tennis, page 15

Baseball loses 2 of 3 by combined 3 runs in weekend series
By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Senior Staff Writer

As the halfway point of the baseball season approaches, Davidson stands at 5-6 in the Southern Conference and 9-13 overall after dropping three of its last four. On Sunday afternoon, the Wildcats finished up a three-game series at SoCon rival Western Carolina by losing 3-2 to the Catamounts in 10 innings. Co-captain and pitcher Brian Akin ’04 went eight strong innings, scattering six hits and surrendering two earned runs while striking out eight and not yielding a single walk. Western pitching held the ’Cats to two runs as well, on a Carter ’05 scattered seven hits while allowing two earned runs in the ‘Cats’ 5-4 win over WCU.

Player of the Week
Russ Burns ’05
Men’s Tennis
Hometown: Banner Elk, NC
Major: Philosophy

Last Friday, Burns pulled out a crucial three-set victory, giving the ’Cats their first conference victory of the season. Despite being down a break 4-3 in the third set, Burns pulled off an impressive three straight games to clinch the match over the opposing Mocs. The following day, Burns teamed up with Rob Gould ’04 to secure the doubles point that would give the ’Cats another slim 4-3 victory, this time against SCSU. The men are now 8-5 on the season and 1-3 in the conference.Solo home run from Gregory Zage ’07 in the seventh and a clutch RBI double by Alden Crissey ’07 to tie the score in the top of the ninth. Facing reliever Rob Wilson ’07 (3-2), Western opened the bottom of the ninth by putting runners on first and second with one out. Fortunately, Jay Heafner ’06 snagged a line drive at third base and flipped it to second for the inning-ending double play. Davidson was held scoreless in the top of the tenth, and the Catamounts picked up the win in the bottom half on a walk-off home run. Offensively, the ’Cats were led by Crissey, who went 2-for-3 with a walk and a run batted in.

Saturday’s game was a quintessential slugfest, with both teams combining for 22 runs and 31 hits. Davidson jumped out to an early 2-0 lead in the top of the first, but then surrendered six runs in the bottom half and never led for the rest of the game. Zage led all hitters, going 3-for-5 with two runs and two more batted in, while Andrew Musashe ’05 also drove in two and Crissey scored two more. Justin Hartanov ’05 (0-2) was charged with the loss after allowing four runs, three of them earned, in three innings of work.

Davidson opened the Western series on Friday, picking up a 5-4 win by scoring twice in the top of the ninth. Eli Benefield ’05 started the ninth with a walk, followed by a Sam Navarro ’05 single that put runners on first and second. Muniz then laid down a sacrifice bunt to put both runners in scoring position for Alex Entrekin ’06, who dropped a single into left field, scoring two as Davidson grabbed an unrelinquishing lead. Heafner retired the side in the bottom half en route to earning his sixth save on the year, which puts him in second place on Davidson’s single-season save list. Five Cats had two hits on the day, and Musashe scored twice while Muniz and Zage both drove in a run. Wilson improved to 3-1 on the year despite facing just three batters and throwing 12 pitches in two-thirds of an inning. Starter Andy Carter ’05 went 6.2 innings, allowing four runs, only two earned, while striking out seven against two walks.

A week ago, the ’Cats literally threw the game away against Radford, committing five errors en route to a 7-4 loss. Of the seven Radford runs, only one was earned; as Matt Mead ’07 (0-3) was charged with the loss despite not allowing a single earned run. Hartanov looked solid in just his second career start, yielding just two hits in five innings of work.

Davidson returns to action tonight in Raleigh against N.C. State before returning to Wildcat Park for a four-game home stand beginning tomorrow at 3 p.m. against Harvard and continuing this weekend as Wofford comes to town for a three-game series, starting with a double-header on Saturday at 1 p.m. and finishing with Sunday’s 1 p.m. game.

CLARIFICATION

Last week’s From The Sideline column, “NCAA Recruiting Scandal, Davidson-style,” was entirely fictional and meant as a satire. The point of the column was to emphasize that recruiting at Davidson would never reach the scandalous levels it has at big universities such as CU that have been in the national spotlight, and that it will almost certainly never have any scandal level at all. Unfortunately, the article failed to make that clear enough, resulting in confusion from many who read it. We would like to apologize for this confusion and reiterate that all events were fiction. Please read this week’s column for more on the subject.