12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Wilson McCrory
Sports Editor

My favorite Sports Illustrated of the year is not the Swimsuit edition or the Sportsman of the Year. They are
quality issues, without a doubt, but my favorite issue comes several times a year, including last week when I pulled
the 2004-05 NFL Preview out of Box 6245. With the exception of the NHL preview, I devour the pre-season editions,
learning how Missouri’s Tim Smith could lead his team to a Big-12 Title and why Mike Shanahan believes Champ Bailey
is the lynchpin to the Broncos’ 2005 Super Bowl hopes. I stuff useless stats in my head, learn who could
be the X-factor this year, and read worthless rankings that will invariably turn out wrong. Still, I was excited when
SI picked the Panthers as one of four teams “to be feared” in 2004. After being shafted in the media
for so many years, and even throughout their Super Bowl run last year, people are finally noticing the franchise from
Charlotte, North Carolina.

The best thing about the preseason issues, however, is the eternal optimism that oozes from every player and coach as
clichés run rampant. In the preseason, there are question marks, but there are always explanations and rationalizations. Before the laces
are tightened, everyone still has a chance to be a champion, whether it is for an NCAA title, a Conference
title, or the Super Bowl.

For you Sports fans...

PROOKIE'S PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat game of the week: Men’s Soccer in Davidson/Adidas Classic

By JEFF HAMILTON
Guest Columnist

After winning their home opener vs. Marquette and dropping a game on the road vs. 18th ranked Old Dominion, Davidson
will host Vanderbilt and UAB this weekend.

They're baaaaaaaaack! I know you missed them. It’s OK fellas, you can admit it without throwing your masculinity on the
ground and jumping up and down on it: you were utterly lost without the WNBA while they were on their
Olympic break. As one of maybe three or four legitimate WNBA fans at this school (OK, in the country) who
actually knew the league took a break for the Olympics, I thought it would be appropriate to enlighten the rest
of you as to what you’re missing.

Since I had been counting down the days until my team, the Connecticut Sun, returned from the break, and since
they resumed play in Charlotte, I knew I would be in attendance when they took on the Charlotte Sting. Now,
you need to understand that Sting-Sun is a bit of a rivalry. Think Davidson-Furman, I guess. Big, but not that
big. You have to remember that nothing in the WNBA is that big.

Anyway, we got to the old Charlotte Coliseum just in time for the anthem. As my buddy (he made me
sign a contract that I couldn’t give anybody his name if he went to the game with me, so don’t
ask) and I tried to proceed to the lower level seats, we were stopped by an overly ambitious usher who
informed us that we would not be sitting in the lower level with our $10 tickets. Dejected, but still happy
to be there, we proceeded to our seats in the upper level.

On the first possession of the game, Sting center Tammy Sutton-Brown got fouled and went to the line for two.
It occurred to me that this was the perfect time to prove my loyalty to the Sun, and I began
yelling “BRICK” as the rest of the arena had gone into respectful foul line silence.took the dirty looks from startled
mothers in stride, and after the first free throw, repeated the same line for the second attempt. No less.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2004

Championship, or a Vince Lombardi Trophy. And because sports are now so defined by parity, as demonstrated by the Panthers,
the Lightning, the Twins and the Cinderellas, everyone now has a reason for hope. Even the Bengals went 8-8 last
year.

Our Davidson Wildcats, meanwhile, won’t grace any glossy preseason preview issues, flying on the outskirts of Division I athletics throughout
much of the year. We do have the occasional bright spot, such as the 58-54 victory over the Tar Heels
in 2001, the men’s soccer team’s Final Four berth in 1992, and the football team’s 13-0 season in 2000, but
those moments are few and far between.

This year, we again won’t have a national champion or an SI cover, and no one is talking about us
over on ESPN, but as the school year begins, we can be equally optimistic about our chances in 2004-05. The
men’s soccer team returns almost everyone from its Conference Championship team of a year ago, and looks to open the
new Alumni Stadium in style for the 2004 season. Hopefully, a disappointing opening-round loss to Coastal Carolina in the 2003
NCAA tourney will serve as a learning experience for the 2004 ’Cats.

The women’s cross country team is primed for another run to the top of the Southern Conference, and is looking
beyond even the Conference Championships this year. Senior All-conference runner Kelly Fillnow ’05 returns for her final year, and twin
sister Meghan Fillnow ’05 looks to pick up where her sister started last year as a first-time runner.

Men’s basketball loses only Nick Booker ’04 from last season’s 17-12 season, and hopes to return to the NCAA tournament
after a two-year absence. The out-of-conference schedule, despite the loss of the Tar Heels, includes high-profile games against Duke, Georgetown,
and Seton Hall.

Women’s tennis returns four all-conference performers from the 2004 season, and looks to claim its first-ever SoCon title in 2004
after a disappointing loss to College of Charleston in the 2004 conference finals.

Those stories, and the others, will not all turn out as well as they look on paper; there will be
injuries, heartbreaking losses, and unmet expectations. Holes will be exposed, optimism will be doused, and the eternal hope of a
grand season may have to wait for another year. But before the seasons start, we’re all 0-0, and anything is
still possible. So while I can’t read about the ’Cats in any Sports Illustrated, I can dream nonetheless.

...enough to yell ‘Brick!’ than half the arena (read: 14 people) then turned to give me a perplexed look, which
was either related to their bewilderment that a Sun fan was in the building or to their incredulity that anyone
cared that much about the game... I'll go with the latter.

The game maintained ho-hum intensity for 35 minutes, until the Sun finally decided to chip away at a double-digit deficit.
They ended up pulling within one, but the final was Charlotte 62, Connecticut 55. Despite the loss, it felt good
to have the girls back. It’s the home stretch of the season and the playoffs are right around the corner.
I’m hoping the Sun can outdo last year’s Eastern Conference Finals performance and bring home the trophy to Uncasville, Connecticut.

I invite you all to take a look at the WNBA, maybe even watch a game on ESPN2 (if it
ever unfreezes). So what if they can’t dunk and often have trouble holding on to loose balls; it’s basketball, and
these girls can shoot.

On September 15 the Sun returns to Charlotte and you can bet I'll be there again. Call me up if
you want to go, because the one person who went with me last time said he’d never go again.
