= BAYIDEONIAN TODAY'S NEWS

Reading skimmed SEE PAGE 3

Chef’s table leftovers again SEE PAGE 5

Sub-free girl kind of cute SEE PAGE 16

Pig taking test needs new pen SEE PAGE 11

Report: New soccer stadium looks a lot like old one SEE PAGE 13

When I hopped in my car and headed east for college several weeks ago, a torrent of anxieties were running through my head. How hard will my classes be? Will I make friends quickly? Will the Commons serve my favorite type of vegetable blend, the Scandinavian? Foremost in my head, however, was probably the question of the social scene. I was reared in the small North Dakota town of Goodrich with a tiny population. But I figured it was time to leave my quaint life behind, and throw my feathers out into the wind. Davidson’s cosmopolitan atmosphere, its close proximity to the growing metropolis of Charlotte, and its ten club sports were my deciding factors when I chose the school. I really wanted to see what big city living was like. It’s like my grandpa always used to say, “An opportunity like this is like the cows. It only comes around once in a while, and that’s to get milked. So, what do you do? You have to just go out and milk it, whether your boots are on or not.”

After all the parents left from Orientation, everyone on the hall was eager to get to partying. Unfortunately, we found out that freshmen weren’t allowed down to the Court to party until some night called “first night down” (FND). We tried to have parties on the hall, but it was kinda lame, and we kept getting alcohol citations. Then we decided to go off campus to party, but the article in The Davidsonian about those quickly changed our minds. So, we waited patiently until last weekend. I heard a ton of stories about the Court parties. Everything seemed so different and glamorous! We had parties back in North Dakota, sure, but they were all one-pig parties. Also, people seemed to be a lot more excited about the drinking involved before going to the party rather than the party itself. Back in Goodrich, the most important part of having a good get-together was the dancing and the people there, but here all the excitement comes before it. That’s like having a crop growing contest and instead of eating the winner, you chuck the losers in the back of the hay barrel.

Finally, the day of FND came: Friday. I found it hard to concentrate in my philosophy class that morning. I kept day-dreaming of all the excitement to come later that night. My roommate, Steve, and I had been invited to our flickerball coach’s house, off-campus, for a “pregame” to FND, but between me and you, I’m still confused about that whole game business. Several hours later, we made our way down to Patterson Court to join the rest of the school for FND festivities. Although I can’t pick out too many details from much of the night after that (it was too much of a rush!), I do know that it lived up to all my wildest expectations. Heck, I thought that parties like those were only in the movies or corny teenage novels. First night down was, without a doubt, the best night of my life.

THE YOWL
Your Davidsonian Humor Section

THIS WEEK'S BIO-ETHICS SOCIETY
Jeff Yeakel
Bobby Kenner
Jordie Poncy
Robbie Reynolds

Students with story suggestions or interested in writing should contact the editor at brparets@davidson.edu

Note: If you haven't been living in a cave for the past six months, then you should know that the Yowl is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

UBI ORTA UBERTAS
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2004

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER
Davidson's Premier Humor Publication
September 15, 2004

Smart Enforcer takes charge

Davidson students returning to campus this fall may have noticed a change in Internet setup. Students were required to install a new program known as Smart Enforcer on their computers before they were allowed to connect to the network. Smart Enforcer, distributed by Information Technology Services (ITS), was originally installed as a complement to Anti-Virus software. Smart Enforcer could detect machines on the network that lacked the proper, up-to-date virus detection technology and then send them to a “quarantine area,” so they were no longer a threat to network security. And, according to ITS, it has done its job perfectly, as there have been no major security threats thus far this semester.

Quickly, though, the Smart Enforcer software recognized its ability to help improve other areas of Davidson life. ITS reported Smart Enforcer’s involvement in the resolution of many recent campus incidents. For example, Smart Enforcer detected pornography on one seventeen-year-old student’s computer and subsequently notified officials. As of late, Smart Enforcer has become more directly involved with the enforcement of its policies. In an incident last Friday, a Belk resident was issued an alcohol citation from Smart Enforcer for visiting a website condoning underage drinking. Smart Enforcer had become suspicious of this student and was closely monitoring his Internet habits after he had purchased a John Belushi “Animal House” poster from allposters.com. In another incident, Smart Enforcer detected a noise violation through a Richardson Hall resident's computer microphone.

Smart Enforcer’s new presence on campus has come with mixed reviews by students and faculty. Brett Russell ’06 is supportive of the new measures, stating, “It’s about time we had something like this to keep everyone in check.” However, others feel that the software is an invasion of privacy and are concerned about the extent of its monitoring capabilities.has completely changed my outlook on life, especially college social life. When I first got here I decided that there was no way I would join a frat, but after seeing how much fun the frats know how to have and how hard they party, there’s no way I’m not joining one. Never before had I seen so many people packed into such a small area. It was like having my whole town in one small, slippery-floored room. Girls were dancing on the tables left and right. At one point, I jumped up on the table and they started doing these crazy dances where they rub up against you. There wasn’t one single line dance either! Everyone was there, cause I think I even saw a pair of soccer players and someone from the basketball team! The whole time I was there it was like I was living that Andrew W.K. song: 

“When it’s time to party we will party hard, 
‘Cos we will never listen to your rules (no)...
Do what we like and we like what we do, 
So let’s get a party going (let’s get a party going), 
Now it’s time to party and we'll party hard (party hard), 
Let’s get a party going (let’s get a party going), 
When it’s time to party we will always party hard, 
Party hard (party hard, party hard, party hard, party hard, party hard, party hard, party hard, party hard, party hard...)”

After the excitement of last weekend, I wonder if life could possibly get any better. I remain optimistic though, because I hear that Court Selection Night is coming up in a couple of months!

Brett was having an AOL Instant Messenger conversation with his girlfriend about sex. Smart Enforcer, recognizing a chance to help out the couple, sent the conversation in an email to geringle@davidson.edu. “Smart Enforcer is always there for you,” insisted Brett, “and is always looking for some way to help improve your quality of life.”

Others, however, are not so optimistic about Smart Enforcer’s intentions. Said Katherine Faulk ’07, “I don’t feel comfortable changing in my own room anymore since Smart Enforcer is always watching from my computer. Now I have to change in the closet. Hopefully, Smart Enforcer isn’t there, yet.” Campus Police are also wary of Smart Enforcer, as they feel it is eroding their authority. Seventy-five percent of all alcohol citations and parking tickets in the last month were given by Smart Enforcer. One student attempted to disable Smart Enforcer on his computer after Smart Enforcer informed the RIAA of his mp3 downloading habits. His roommate’s copy of Smart Enforcer detected his attempt and promptly gave him an electric shock through his keyboard.

Despite its name, some suggest Smart Enforcer may not be as “smart” as it claims. Since it is computer software, it has no discretional abilities. Math major Steven Smith ’05 attested, “Computer programs [such as Smart Enforcer] run on a programmed logic sequence and they cannot stray from it at all. If there’s a bug [problem] in the code, the program cannot recognize it, and will do whatever it has been programmed to do.” “Bugs” in Smart Enforcer are beginning to be seen. Smart Enforcer brought one anonymous student before the Honor Council because in an email to his girlfriend, he confessed to “cheating” on her last weekend at SAE. Smart Enforcer recognized the keyword “cheat,” and due to its programming automatically associated that with an Honor Code violation. Still, one important opinion is missing. And, when given the chance to defend itself against claims of privacy invasion, Smart Enforcer replied, “I JUST FOLLOW MY PROGRAMMING CODE. YOU MUST FOLLOW THE CODE I IMPOSE.”

The Davidsonian Princeton Review: Davidson lacks bullies

A recent ranking performed by The Princeton Review praises Davidson’s excellence in financial aid, campus aesthetics, and overall quality of life. Lacking, however, is diversity among the student body in terms of race, religion, and apparently, bullies. The publication cited low percentages of African-Americans, Jewish students, and wedgies in its findings. Junior Ryan Jackson considers Davidson's bully deficiency to be quite serious, “You're telling me racial diversity is a problem? The real problem is bullies. Where are they? I haven’t seen a purple nurple since high school.” Jackson’s observations are not unusual. Campus Safety reported that car break-ins alone outnumber swirlies, wet willies, and wedgies combined.

Surprisingly, not everyone views the College's lack of bullies as a deficiency. Administration cites the low levels of geek torment as beneficial to learning, substance-free housing, and tucked-in shirts. The issue certainly has created a flurry of debate among the student body. “I love the fact that Davidson doesn’t have so many jerks,” said Chambers lawn frisbee enthusiast John Merkis ’07, “For the first time in my life, I’ve lost more discs to the woods than some big guy’s knee. It’s great.” Senior Jamie Hobin disagreed. “I’m sure we'd all love to play an uninterrupted game of frisbee, but the fact is that’s just not how the real world works. The real world has bullies. If you don’t think so, just go off campus and try having a discussion about mock trial. See how fast your underwear gets pulled over your head.”

Though the bully deficiency will surely dominate campus conversation for years to come, most experts agree that the consistently high admission standards and academic difficulty do not bode well for bullies at Davidson.

How did you spend your first night down?
- Chilling with Paris and Tara Reid
- www.collegehumor.com