THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2004 3

Admissions, from page 1

Rosenstein ’07. “I would have to say that they do not outwardly state their religious affiliation, or how religious the
school is.”

Other students felt that they were aware of Davidson’s religious affiliation when they applied, but once they arrived they were
surprised at how religious life plays out on campus. “This school does have a strong Christian tradition so it would
be naive to think that Christianity wouldn’t be a huge part of this campus,” said Oliver Curtis ’07. “But for
me in particular I was a little surprised by how many churchgoers there are and I think there is a
split between churchgoers and non-churchgoers.”

Members of the Admissions Office said that most prospective students are not interested in religion. Therefore the Admissions Office does
not make a point to discuss the issue with everyone who applies. “It’s not up to the admissions office to
decide what’s important to say about Davidson,” said Dean of Admissions Nancy Cable. “It’s up to us to be responsive
to [prospective students].”

The Admissions Office stresses the academic aspects of the school, including the Honor Code and strong faculty-student relationships that Cable
says are “truisms at Davidson.” “Some prospective students have interest only in our academic or athletic programs,” Cable said. “We
never make the assumption that all students need to know all pieces of information.”

If prospective students do express interest or concern about religion on campus, the Admissions Office provides them with the information
they need to make an informed decision about coming to Davidson. “We try to put students in touch with [College
Chaplain] Rob Spach and with students in leadership positions. We put them in touch with students who have the information
they want,” said Cable.

Spach speaks with a variety of prospective students, from Jewish and Catholic students who want to make sure they will
not encounter hostility to their religious perspectives to evangelical Christians who are searching for a vibrant Christian community at college.

Davidson students who work with the Admissions Office also field questions that prospective students have about religion on campus. “When
addressing this concern, the first thing I say is that Davidson is affiliated with the Presbyterian Church,” Admissions Fellow Erika
Dean ’05 said. “However, this does not mean that religion is forced upon our students, but it can be something
that students are mindful of. We have some students who go to church every Sunday. Then, we have some students
who go every blue moon. It really depends on your personal preference.”

Senior Admissions Fellow Justin Hartanov ’05 has not found religion to be a major concern for most prospective students. “After
working around the office for four years, I do not feel that many students feel that religion is a major
factor in their decision to attend Davidson.”

Yet many of The Davidsonian sources for this article acknowledged the difficulties of talking about religion in the context of
recruitment efforts. Spach realizes that prospective students can potentially misunderstand what Davidson’s Presbyterian heritage actually means. “The problem is that
Presbyterians are a very small minority, only two million in the U.S.,” Spach said. “The way that Presbyterians think about
the interaction of the mind and spirit is not necessarily shared by all Christians. If prospective students and their parents
don’t understand, they may hear that it’s church-affiliated and make assumptions that are incorrect.”

Some students acknowledge that Davidson’s religious affiliation makes it harder to attract non-Christian or non-religious students. “Some of my Jewish
friends didn’t even look here because of its affiliation and because there aren’t many Jews here,” said Curtis. “It seems
like in this day and age the college isn’t ashamed of their heritage, but I don’t feel like they embrace
other religions as much as they should.”

Trails, from page 1

...ing the young woman’s directions to the couple and thought at first that the young woman had played a trick
on him. He eventually found the couple on the inner loop of the trails (about 3k into the 5k) with
ROTC members who had arrived. At least half an hour passed between the time of the man’s collapse and the
arrival of a pickup truck with three trained medics. A little later, the ambulance reached the victim, only after Professor
of Military Science Major Patrick Leslie called the physical plant to open the back access gate to the trails. The
man was neighbors with Associate Professor of Political Science Patrick Sellers and Dr. Tim Beach-Verhey, Director of the Lilly Programs.
He was a regular runner and in good health. Emergency personnel pronounced the man dead for...some time. “It was quite
a while before we got out there,” said Frank Mollaneck, one of the medics who arrived on the scene. He
said that after a heart attack a person’s chance of resuscitation diminishes ten percent each minute, and even more rapidly
after 7 or 8 minutes. The young woman’s difficulty in finding help and then describing an exact location on the
trails, which led to a dilatory emergency response, shows the desperate need for new safety measures on the trails. Mollaneck
said that the issue is two-fold: first, how does someone find help, and then how does help find the person
in trouble. Fountain Walker, Director of Public Safety and Police, said that the short-term goals in addressing the issue of
safety on the trails include signage and maps as well as widening the trails for emergency vehicles. The mapping of
the trails has recently been completed. Maps will be color-coded and inform people of their exact location. The widening of
the trails should be complete by spring, he said. In the long-term, blue phones will be placed at intervals along
the trails so that fire and medic first responders can reach emergency situations faster. The blue phones will enable emergency
crews to pinpoint locations. Walker also plans to ask for safety suggestions from the fire and medic first responders. Walker
also plans to have all campus police trained to the first responder level so that they can use AEDs (Automatic
External Defibrillators), put people on stretchers, and basically “perform a higher level of medical service,” he said.

RIAA, from page 1

music downloading. Students at Boston College, James Madison University, and other institutions have been charged with music piracy by the
RIAA. “I understand the seriousness of violating copyright laws and the problems it causes the recording industry, but downloading is
something everybody does and a better system needs to be developed to control music pirating,” said Wilbrandt. The Student Government
Association, Internet Technology Services, and Shandley are planning to meet to discuss ways to curb the illegal music sharing problem
and to protect students against further legal action. One possibility is purchasing a legal downloading source, such as wes for
the entire Davidson student body. Cornell, Middlebury, and George Washington University, along with a handful of other institutions, have already
purchased Napster for their students. Until a solution is reached, the RIAA realizes that the potential for music piracy among
college students is high since many college students are enthusiastic music fans with access to their own computers. “I would
expect we are going to get more of these,” said Shandley.

Some AADA alumni...

Audition

Other students feel that non-Christian and non-religious students should not be deterred by Davidson’s religious affiliation. “Overall, I believe the
school could do a better job portraying the influence religion has, but I would not say that this would deter
a minority in any way, as long as they understood that the student body and the school prides itself on
being diverse and accepting those with different beliefs,” said Rosenstein. President Bobby Vagt believes it is more important for prospective
students to understand Davidson’s ties to the Reformed Tradition rather than its Presbyterian heritage. “What does get marketed is that
while we do not, will not, and have not force-fed a particular set of tenets, we will make occasion to
nurture the development of the spirit as well as the mind,” Vagt said. Spach believes that Davidson’s Reformed heritage is
important in many more ways than just religious life on campus, and in fact it influences many of Davidson’s core
values. “It underlies things like the Honor Code and the educational vision of the institution,” Spach said. “That vision is
rooted in a Reformed understanding of the fact that our lives are lived in the context of the community, in
which we are called by God to use our gifts for the common good, and the fact that we are
an institution that values and supports religious life.” Vagt went on to emphasize that Davidson's connection to the Reformed Tradition
actually should make Davidson an institution especially open and accepting of students of different faiths and backgrounds. “The importance is
not the relationship to a specific church, which I think drives people away,” Vagt said. “There’s an openness to whatever
tradition you come from because that’s part of the Reformed Tradition.”

LEARN ONE OF 21 LANGUAGES

As a Soldier at the Defense Language Institute in Monterey, California, you'll learn one of 21 languages. And you don’t
need to speak a foreign language to qualify.

Call Sgt. 1st Class Boyce at 563-0560 to find out about college loan repayment and more Army benefits.

goarmy.com ©2001. Paid for by the U.S. Army. All rights reserved.

in Charlotte, January 29

800 463 8990 | 800 222 2867

www.aada.org

The American Academy of Dramatic Arts

New York & Hollywood
