THE DAVIDSONIAN
Restaurant Review
ARTS & LIVING
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2004

Vietnamese food: the new frontier in Asian cuisine

The Vietnamese specialty Bun.
By ANDREW SCHAPIRO AND VIRGINIA GREGORY
Restaurant Reviewers

In the past few years, a number of new Thai, Chinese, and Japanese restaurants have popped up in the Davidson area to cater to the growing demand for Asian cuisine. New on the scene, however, is Mai Cafe, which fills the void in Vietnamese food that previously plagued this stretch of I-77. While Vietnamese often goes unrecognized in favor of more popular Thai and Chinese counterparts, one visit to Mai Cafe is bound to win you over. The synthesis of the unique food, sophisticated atmosphere, and accommodating staff yields an extraordinary dining experience.

Owner Jenny Hoang, who moved to the United States from Vietnam about 18 years ago, opened Mai Cafe this past June. Located in the Magnolia Estates shopping center in Cornelius, Mai Cafe is slightly off the beaten path but this has not kept it from being discovered by throngs of Davidson professors. After a number of faculty raved about the restaurant, we decided to try it out only to find half a dozen professors dining there the same night.

The tiny restaurant’s facade is plain with only a small sign above the door, but the interior is quite another story. The dining room is a striking contrast of white paneled walls, and black booths and chairs. Unique pieces of art hang over each high banquette which creates a more private atmosphere for diners. Larger parties can request to sit in the back nook of the restaurant which is more intimate though equally elegant.

By Monica JAMONEAU
Special Contributor

From what I remember about First Night Down, it was pretty good. Patterson Court wasn’t too hard to find, and I love dancing. The only problem came from the spaghetti dinner at Chambers lawn that afternoon. I thought it tasted alright, but an unusually large number of students were sick later that night, so there must have been something wrong with the preparation.

I’m pretty sure that the guy I hooked up with was cute. For some reason, though, when I tried to find him in the Facebook, there was no listing for an Alfredo Rigatoni. I must have heard him wrong. But it doesn’t matter since I'll probably see him a lot around campus. Even if my memory is a bit blurry when it comes to his face, I do remember he had a really hot tattoo. I thought it was strange that the naked mermaid on his forearm seemed to come off a little when I rubbed it, but he assured me that he had only just gotten it, so flaking was normal.

I may have ended the night with Alfredo, but I began it with my roommate at the court. I had never been to a frat party before, and I get high marks for style, while vinyl tablecloths and mauve polyester napkins leave something to be desired. The red leather stools at the tiled bar clashed with the simplicity of the decor, but the drink menu was replete with inventive cocktails and a decent selection of wine. As a whole, the ambiance is perfect for all occasions whether it be a casual lunch with friends or a special occasion.

All of the dishes that we tried at Mai Cafe contained high-quality ingredients, filled their plates artistically, and gave off wonderfully distinct aromas. We feel confident that the handful of entrees we sampled well represent the Cafe’s extensive menu of over one hundred items. Some details like the trendy, square plates.

I saw a lot of people I had never met, which slightly intimidated me. This senior guy taught me how to introduce myself, though, so by the end of the night I knew all of the guys, and some of the girls. I’m still not sure where my roommate went, but I hope she gets back soon.

Speaking of upperclassmen, they are all so nice! Every time I got thirsty, one of the older kids would offer me something to drink. At first, the soda tasted funny, but Alfredo told me that was just because frats don’t have a lot.of money to spend on refreshments. They must have gotten in a better shipment toward the end of the night—I drank a lot of it, so it couldn’t have been that bad. It was obvious that everyone but me had had a lot of alcohol. Once the earth stopped spinning from exerting myself so hard on the dance floor, I noticed some crazy stuff, including a bunch of girls dancing on a table. I’m just glad that I was smart and limited myself to only a few glasses of vodka after my last class on Friday. Even somebody with my high tolerance can become stupid if she drinks too much. By the way, if anybody finds a red lace thong in the bushes behind Phi Delt, this girl I know kind of wants it back.

Owner Hoang recommended the spicy chicken with lemongrass as one of the more popular dishes, and it turned out to be the most stereotypical of our entrees. An abundance of chicken came sautéed with bell peppers and onions in a lightly spicy sauce that was hardly reconciled to the flavors of each ingredient. Our Bun Special, a room temperature bowl of rice vermicelli noodles with grilled pork and shrimp, topped with vegetables, mint, and finally accompanied by an egg roll, amazingly maintained the integrity of each of its distinct components. Even the clear garlic sauce that comes with the Bun Special mingled well with the other flavors. Pan-fried noodle dishes come with the choice of four types of noodles including the curry vermicelli variety, which we found in a delicate nest beneath tender chicken and crisp vegetables.

The most inventive dish we sampled, and another of the most popular on the menu, comes under the heading of Do Nuong, which is a Vietnamese interpretation of fajitas with ingredients like pickled carrot, daikon, pineapple, mint, and soft rice noodles. Sizzling beef and onion arrived along with a bowl of hot water used to soften the rice paper wrappers. We proceeded to pack and wrap, each time pairing different vegetables and herbs with beef within delicately smooth rice paper. A peanut sauce with chili paste and chopped nuts tasted more like a standard plum sauce but perfectly complemented our makeshift egg rolls. Mai Cafe offers a more expensive version of the Do Nuong prepared tableside for two people with ingredients like lobster, salmon, and sea scallops. Hoang was enthusiastic about offering Vietnamese-style fondue come winter.

Daily specials and tasting menus are varied and constantly available and, on our visit, we found an entryway table covered with photographs of a nine-course tilapia tasting menu for two people, both of whom would have to be discerning gourmets. The staff was extremely friendly and attentive, evidenced by our water glasses which were never less than half full. Both of our servers, which seemed to be the entire waitstaff that evening, were eager and able to field numerous questions about the ingredients and preparations of the dishes. They patiently explained the different consistencies and shapes of all the noodles and introduced us to purple basil mint, which neither of us had ever encountered before.

The only snag in the otherwise perfect service was that dishes seemed to arrive on an unorthodox schedule. One entree was presented before the appetizer was finished, and the other two followed in five-minute intervals. This kink will probably work itself out as Mai Cafe ages to a successful and mature restauranthood; since most dishes were intended to be passed around and shared, it did not pose an enormous problem.

Prices at Mai Cafe cater to all budgets. Almost all of the lunch entrees fall under $8, while dinner prices range from $10 for noodle bowls to over $70 for elaborate shared meals. Hoang offers a 10% discount for Davidson students who present their cat cards. If elaborate praise alone seems unconvincing, hopefully the discount will tip the scales since Cornelius’ Mai Cafe is sure to please those who wish to venture beyond routine Thai and Chinese cuisine.

Mai Cafe
8301 Magnolia Estates Dr. #11
Cornelius, NC 28031
704-892-9171
M-Th: 11am-2:30pm and 4:30-10pm
F-Sun: 11am-10pm

Mai Cafe
Food: A
Atmosphere: A-
Service: B+
Dinner for 2: $45