THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2004

Town council approves commercial property plan
‘Quality, full-service’ grocery store included in plan

By Carey BAXTER
Staff Writer

On Wednesday, September 15, the Davidson town council unanimously approved a commercial property plan that includes a full-service grocery store
such as Harris Teeter.

The town council is working to realize this plan with Harris Associates, a developing company, and Edens and Avant, a
building company that manages 300 shopping centers around the United States.

The two companies hope to open a new, “quality, full-service grocery store,” said Ed Harris of Harris Associates, on Griffith
Street at the corner of Jetton Street by the summer of 2006. They also plan to open retail stores in
the center that will span about 20 acres.

The town council organized public workshops with landscape architects, land planners, and engineers to plan the new shopping center.

“The plan involves the redevelopment of an existing large industrial building,” said John Woods, the Davidson Commissioner and Mayor Pro-Tem.
A charter school for kindergarten through fifth grade students will also occupy half of this building.

The new shopping center, consisting of “a line of small shop-spaces,” as well as “some live-work units and a larger
concentration of townhouse-type residential [units]” will surround this building on the east side of the property, said Woods.

Hopefully, the center will provide “services and products that are not available in town,” said Harris. A bagel shop is
one possibility for the rest of the 24,000 square feet of retail space that will need to be filled.

The prospects look good, said Woods, as approximately 1700 potential customers “with predictable buying habits and needs” live nearby, which
“might encourage some attractive business opportunities.”

“A full-service grocery facility nearer campus is a good thing for students,” said Woods.

Lauren Woodall ’08 said she would definitely like a new grocery store, even if it meant a drive, because “CVS
needs some competition,” and because she wants to shop in more than just the natural foods store across the railroad
tracks.

“It is important that retailing can attract not only those of us who live in Davidson, including students, but also
those who live in the surrounding area, which has developed quite a large population,” said Woods.

The companies have not yet signed a lease with a grocery store. They plan to contract a store like Harris
Teeter or Whole Foods that is full-service and offers a “wide variety” of services, said Harris.

Harris, a Davidson resident for 25 years, said that Davidson College “has become more and more self-sufficient.”

see Grocery, page 4

Krugman, from page 1

Krugman also discussed his belief that a radical movement in government has been building up for several decades.

“The White House and Congress want to change the country into something different,” he said. “They want to roll back
the New Deal.”

Krugman said he first became aware of problems in 2002 when Bush said in his campaign that Social Security should
be the people’s money to invest. Social Security is a government program that is meant to give economic aid to
the disabled, unemployed, and aged.

“What happens to the 59-year-old guy who paid for social security all his life? Who pays for his retirement? It
was a two-minus-one equation. A proposal of a major political candidate that literally did not add up,” Krugman said.

Krugman also expressed his distaste for the Bush administration’s tax cuts.

“Tax cuts go to high-income families. Forty percent of tax cuts go to the top one percent of families,” he
said.

Krugman also said that these tax cuts have a negative effect on the federal deficit.

“We have a $400 billion deficit and $280 billion are due to these tax cuts,” he said.

Krugman further expressed his belief that the government attempts to disguise their intentions.

“Elitist tax cuts are sold as if they are populist,” he said.

Krugman also discussed the influence of the media and criticized the presentation of both sides of an issue.

“If Bush said the earth was flat the headlines would read: ‘Shape of the Earth: Views Differ,’” said Krugman.

The media’s “pathological evenhandedness” makes it hard to get the truth reported, he said.

“The [World Trade Center] towers were still burning and they were saying, ‘How can we use this to go after
Saddam?’”

--New York Times columnist and economist Paul Krugman

“Something has really snapped in politics,” said Krugman. He concluded his lecture with Howard Dean’s campaign slogan, “I want my
country back.”

Andrew Yancey ’05 approved of Krugman’s speech.

“Dr. Krugman laid out very logically and systematically why President Bush’s economic plans have been and will continue to be
unsuccessful,” he said. “His lecture should have been very convincing to everyone who heard it, regardless of their political ideology
or socioeconomic background.”

Krugman is the author of 20 books and over 200 articles, including his recently published book “The Great Unraveling: Losing
Our Way in the New Century,” and a well-known critic of the Bush administration.

Campus Police blotter

10/3 Martin Court Vehicle Damage

Officer received a call at 3:20 p.m. about damage to a vehicle in the Martin Court B PVA. The victim
said that they found their Kawasaki motorcycle lying on the ground with a broken signal light and right-side mirror.

10/2 Dorm Room Property Theft

Student reported that an unknown person(s) entered their unlocked room and removed an Apple MP3 player from the top of
their desk as well as $120 in cash.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety
