16

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 1, 2004

STEPHEN J. HALLIDAY
Staff Writer

Wildcats look to bounce back after rough 2003 season

After a disappointing ’03 season in which the Wildcats went 3-8, including an 0-6 home record, Wildcat football is looking
to come back strong for 2004. With the return of Damion White ’05 and another year of experience for the
still-young team, the outlook is far more promising than a year ago.

Offensively, under the leadership of White and senior tailback John Leverett ’05, the ’Cats look ready to put up points
in bundles. Head coach Mike Toop hopes to have a more balanced offensive output this season, instead of having to
rely on a quick-strike passing attack to keep the Cats in contention.

If the Wildcats can avoid the early deficits they so often faced last year, the team will be able to
take advantage of White as well as the stable of runners in the backfield, including Leverett, who rushed for over
1,000 yards last year, Jonathan Hubbard ’07, and Christian Hunt ’05, who missed time last year with injuries after leading
the team in carries during his sophomore season. A more experienced and healthy offensive line also promises to greatly assist
the team’s running attack.

The biggest question mark is White, who is trying to come back from season-ending reconstructive knee surgery after tearing his
anterior cruciate ligament, or ACL, at the end of last year’s season. Before going down with the torn ACL, White
threw for nearly 1300 yards and 12 TDs in only 9 games of action, despite struggling with his consistency and
sharing time at the starting position.

It will be tough to replace the receiving threat of recently departed Barret Johnson ’04, the school’s all-time leader in
receiving yards. But, Brett Dioguardi ’07, the school’s all-time leading freshman receiver and tight end Jeremy Sundheim ’06 lead a
deep group of talented receivers.

This group includes emerging juniors Jake Rice ’06 and Brian Purcell ’06, as well as sophomore Rob Manire ’07. Toop
is quite pleased with this year’s corps, and has bright hopes for its future.

The offense should also improve with a more mature offensive line. Last year, the line was decimated by injuries that
forced three freshmen into the starting line-up and contributed to Davidson’s Pioneer Football League-high 41 sacks allowed. This year the
line, led by fourth-year starter Blair Reynolds ’05, hopes to show great improvement, and should help the offense prosper.

On the opposite side of the ball, the ’Cats defense appears to be sound and turnover-hungry, with a line anchored
by seniors Chris Leftwich ’05 and David Welch ’05, as well as all-PFL candidate Jim Walter ’07.

The linebackers are looking to have another strong year, led by tri-captain Brandon Dete ’05 and returning starters Raleigh Robinson
’05 and Alex Arinsmier ’06. Mark Nesselroad ’05 is the only new starter in the 3-4 system.

see Football, page 13

Baseball
Hometown: Louisville, Kentucky
Major: Mathematics

Following a stellar senior season, Davidson graduate Brian Akin ’04 was selected in the 14th round of the Major League
Baseball First-Year Player Draft by the Los Angeles Dodgers. He is now pitching for the Ogden (Utah) Raptors, a minor-league
rookie level team.

Brian Akin ’04

Damian White takes the snap in the ’Cats 34-0 exhibition win over Greensboro College. The offensive line hopes to stay
healthy this year after an injury-plagued 2003 campaign.

Cake Race shows off speed, sweets and Willy

AUSTIN MERCADANTE
Senior Staff Writer

The summer of 2004 will be remembered for the Olympic Games in Athens, the political events leading to the presidential
election, and, most importantly, the 68th running of the annual Cake Race for incoming freshmen.

Each year, hordes of wide-eyed first-year students toe the line seeking fame, glory, and cake. The race is approximately 1.7
miles, and the course starts in Richardson stadium, winds around campus, and finishes back on the track. The Cake Race
was originally used to determine the fastest runners in the school to form a cross-country team, but is now all
about the cake.

The men’s race started five minutes before the women’s race, and the 75 men tore off across the field as
they would have in Pamplona for the running of the bulls, minus the white clothes and red sash. The pack
exited out the back gates and immediately started running off the course. If it hadn’t been for the quick thinking
of a few level-headed freshmen, the whole race would have been a disaster. As it was, everyone made it back
on the designated route, none worse for the wear after the quick detour.

When the men re-entered the stadium, Andy Kifer ’08 and Sam Morris ’08 were running stride-for-stride, twenty seconds ahead of
the next closest runner. Both are members of

see Cake Race, page 15

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Midway through the first half of the soccer team’s opening game of the 2004 season, Jessica Lahre ’07 lofted a
perfect corner kick to classmate Robin French ’07, who drilled the ball past the Charlotte keeper for the first and
only goal of the afternoon by either squad. As a result, the ’Cats beat their cross-town rivals for the first
time in eleven match-ups since 1994, and opened up new coach Greg Ashton’s tenure at Davidson on a winning note.
