2 The Davidsonian News, Wednesday, March 24, 2004

3/16 - Chambers Missing Violin
A student reports that they left their unsecured violin in a black case outside of the Chambers building on the stairs. The black case has a luggage tag with the words "Suzuki Hart" and the victim's name. The violin is brown in color and has a tag with the words "made in Chicago and the workshop of Christopher Pu". Total value $2300.

Your Ad Here
Call Laura (704) 894-7261

Just Peace remembers anniversary of war in Iraq
BY SAMI JARRAH
Staff Writer

On Friday, Just Peace, a campus organization that advocates peace, organized several events to remember the one-year anniversary of the declaration of the war in Iraq. Along with others in the college community, members of Just Peace wore black armbands to symbolize the anniversary of the U.S.-led war against Iraq. Each armband had the names of two people killed as a result of the war: one Iraqi person and one American soldier.

The organization’s charter states that Just Peace believes in “non-violent means to change.” The charter holds, though not unanimously, that group members “support all troops, not because we support war, but because we support soldiers.” They did not want the college community to forget that it has been one year since the war began and that people—both Iraqi and American—continue to die.

Professor of Biology Dr. Malcolm Campbell said, “Time has shown us that lasting peace has been reached by dialogue, not killing.” Unconvinced of the justification for the Iraqi invasion one year ago, many members of Just Peace are frustrated with the nation’s evolving validation of the war. In spite of this, however, remembering the lives lost, the most emotionally intense outcome of the war, was important to Just Peace members.

“Since Just Peace works primarily by consensus, the group felt that armbands and a flagpole silent vigil were appropriate ways to commemorate the event and to remind our Davidson colleagues that the true cost of war is human beings.”

“I do support the war in Iraq,” said Just Peace member Tammy Ivins ’07, “but I feel that no matter what your views are on the war, it is important to honor the dead and their sacrifices. I mean, I have a brother who is training for the service, and I have friends in active combat.”

In addition to wearing armbands, approximately 40 members of the community gathered around the flagpole for a moment of silence on Friday afternoon. The gatherers formed a circle, held hands, and individually reflected on the war in Iraq. The club also believes that it is important to remember the immense loss of life caused by this war. Members of Just Peace indicated that it is too large to be forgotten,” said Campbell.

The club continues to live up to its belief, indicated in its charter, that “questioning the status quo is good and patriotic, not subversive or treasonous.” As a reflection of this, the group is sponsoring a movie showing in the 900 Room on Wednesday, March 24. The movie will explore if and how Americans were manipulated into believing war was necessary over a year ago.

Just Peace was established by Campbell in the spring of 2003. Members of Just Peace include faculty, staff, and students who discuss issues of local, national, and international significance.

Adderall abuse on the rise?
Nationwide problem calls into...Question whether prescription drug abuse occurs at Davidson

By ADAM MARTIN
Senior Staff Writer

The national problem of student abuse of prescription drugs Adderall and Ritalin has called into question whether such abuse occurs at Davidson. Adderall and Ritalin are two common prescription psychostimulants, or “uppers,” that help users focus on mental tasks. While Davidson has not had one official report of abuse of Adderall, Ritalin, or similar prescription drugs, like in many other colleges and universities, students report abuse.

An anonymous Davidson senior who has a prescription for Adderall said that she refuses to give the medication to friends. “Yeah, I know students without prescriptions who take it regularly to help them study for a test or stay up writing a paper. I don’t think it’s that big of a problem here as in other schools, but there will always be that person who has to cram and there always will be that friend who will loan one or two pills,” she said.

Dr. Eric Heiligenstein, director of clinical psychiatry at the University of Wisconsin, said in The Boston Globe, “Caffeine is fine. This is better. Students are able to accumulate more information in a shorter time frame. These drugs keep you awake longer. They minimize fatigue and help maintain a high performance level.” The drugs could help you pull an all-nighter, but in the state of North Carolina, unlike caffeine, abuse (including un-prescribed use) of Adderall or Ritalin is a Class I felony.

At Davidson College, abusers would also suffer consequences of a violation of the Code of Responsibility that prohibits the possession, manufacture, use, sale, or distribution of any quantity of prescription drugs or controlled substances except for “the prescribed use of medication in accordance with the instructions of a physician.”

According to the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA), before 1991 approximately 2,000 prescriptions were written per year for methylphenidate hydrochloride (i.e., Ritalin, Ritalin Long-Acting, or Concerta). By 2000, over 11 million U.S. school-age kids per year were being prescribed the drug. Likewise, the number of dextroamphetamine prescriptions (i.e., Adderall) increased steeply from approximately 1.3 million in 1996 to approximately six million in 1999.

Side Effects

Though milder, Adderall and Ritalin affect the central nervous system in similar ways to their chemical cousins, speed, cocaine, and “crystal meth.” The most common short-term side effects are increased heart rate, insomnia, nervousness, and loss of appetite (weight loss). Though rare, an overdose could be fatal, especially if mixed with any other drug.

Individuals respond differently to Adderall medication levels and dosages, depending on the level of dopamine in the brain, a chemical that helps send messages to the body. “For people who have a normal level of dopamine, it feels good, like a rollercoaster. It’s like an adrenaline rush, but those people can come down hard. And they feel like they need it and more of it,” said the anonymous senior.

The DEA classifies Adderall and Ritalin as “Schedule II controlled substances,” a classification given to medical drugs with the highest abuse potential and dependence profile. Therefore, Adderall and Ritalin abuse can lead to marked tolerance, escalation in Adderall dosages, and psychological addiction, especially when taken improperly.

“While the ideal dosage and proper intake method [ingestion] shouldn’t make you feel any different (besides more focused), people can crush it up and snort it or dissolve it and inject it intravenously for a drug high,” said Dr. Craig White, a physician at the Davidson Family Practice and the campus health center.