- THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2004

Field Hockey ends losing streak vs. Hoyas

By Britt MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

Over Fall Break, the field hockey team traveled to our nation’s capital to face No. 7 American University, Davidson’s third
straight top-ten opponent, before facing off against Georgetown.

On Oct. 10, Davidson faced an American University team that head coach Lisa Thompson said was “extremely skilled and talented.”
Davidson entered the match with a three-game losing streak in which they had given up 18 goals without scoring a
point on their own offensive end. One has to keep in mind, though, that two of these games came against
North Carolina and Duke, both ranked in the top five in the nation. American, on the other hand, was coming
off a win against nationally ranked Maryland.

Despite the odds, Davidson hung in tough against a relentless offensive attack by the Eagles. Although the staunch defense, led
by senior keeper Sarah Nolan and senior defender Courtney Hughes, managed to stave off many of the 38 shots taken
by the Eagles, American still found a way to the net twice in the first half and three times in
the second. Nolan recorded 20 saves in the game, while Hughes added another to prevent the score from being more
lop-sided. Thompson said of the effort, “We played well defensively for about 35 minutes.” The offense, meanwhile, was not able
to solve the American defense, as Davidson managed only one shot for the game. Still, Thompson said, “We could have
taken advantage of more offensive opportunities.” Overall, Thompson said, “We still learned a lot from the game in order to
get ready for Georgetown.”

On the following day, the Wildcats, looking to break their four-game skid, returned to the field to face the Hoyas.
Eleanor Cowley ’08 finally notched a goal for the Wildcat offense just 3 1/2 minutes into the game, but Georgetown
responded with a goal of its own to knot the score at 1-1 at halftime. In the second half, Catherine
Ransone ’08 assisted junior Molly Blackman to give Davidson a lead that they would carry for the rest of the
game. Kayli Maxwell ’08 added an insurance goal, her ninth for the year, in the late minutes to prevent a
Georgetown comeback. Thompson was happy with her team’s performance, as she said, “Everybody really came out focused and ready to
play.” With the win, Davidson snapped the four-game losing streak to go to 4-8 on the season. Georgetown fell to
2-11.

The Nor-Pac Conference East Division awarded Nolan for her efforts against American and Georgetown, where she had seven saves, by
naming her the Player of the Week. In the game against American, Nolan broke the Davidson record for career saves,
which was set previously at 477. Nolan also has 114 saves on the season, and she has been instrumental on
defense for Davidson. This was the third time that someone from Davidson has been the Player of the Week for
the Nor-Pac East Division, as Maxwell has been given the honor twice.

Davidson’s next two games will be at Belk Turf Field in two crucial matches against Nor-Pac foe St. Louis. The
first game of the doubleheader will be Friday at 7:00, while the second will be held on Saturday at 1:00
as the team looks to improve on its 0-2 conference mark.

Leverett pulls away from would-be tacklers in the 14-10 win vs. Morehead State. The running back could still break the
record for career rushing yards this year, but he just wants to win a league championship.

From Leverett, page 16

well, as he now has 228 points on 38 touchdowns. The performances against Jacksonville and Morehead State earned Leverett his
third and fourth consecutive 100-yard games, respectively, and he currently has 12 100-yard performances in his career. Leverett’s play against
Morehead State also more importantly helped preserve a hard-fought 14-10 affair.this past Saturday. For his work against Jacksonville, Leverett was
named Pioneer Football League Co-Offensive Player of the Week, the third such honor he has received in his career. His
two previous awards, however, were for his special teams work. Leverett himself was quick to note that he alone is
not responsible for his accomplishments. “This year, from a blocking standpoint, has been as good a year as any before
I’ve had here. Blair Reynolds ’05 is a great tackle. He’s come a long way since our freshman year. Mike
Iafrate ’07 is the engine of the line. Mike Chapman ’07 has stepped up a lot this year to fill
in and excel. Also, I’d say we have the smartest tight end in Jordan Sundheim ’06 that we’ve had in
any other year.”

Listening to Leverett go on about his teammates makes one feel that he is knocking on the door of a
team, not personal, record. Although a career rushing record may seem like a big deal to some, head football coach
Mike Toop did not want to focus on it. “Let’s wait and see if he gets it first,” warned Toop,
who, naturally, is more concerned with his team’s upcoming opponents. Leverett added, “When it comes to records, it is best
not to think about them. If you focus on them too much, bad things are liable to happen.”

After having a stellar first three years as a running back, Leverett came into this year somewhat aware of the
possibility to break Sinclair’s record. Still, the mark was never the focus for him or the team. “I didn’t think
about those kinds of things. I was told I’d have a chance to get on the field and contribute as
a freshman, and I believed that. All of this happening now has very recently become a realization to me.”

In response to excitement over a possible career record, Toop said, “We still have four games left, there’s still a
lot of football for John to play.” Clearly, Toop and his team are not overly worried about Leverett’s potential run
to the record books. As they have said all season, team goals have come first and foremost. And, it should
be noted that the team holds Leverett in a position of high regard. When asked about Leverett’s accomplishments, Toop said,
“The fact he was voted captain by his teammates speaks to the commitment, work ethic and devotion he has for
the team and the sport.”

When asked what he wants to be his lasting legacy, Leverett said, “If I get my wish, my lasting legacy
will be to have won a [PFL] Championship this year and to have helped my teammates create a great, life-lasting
memory.” Clearly, whether Leverett, who cites his mother as his biggest supporter, achieves this daunting career mark or not, he
will be remembered by teammates, coaches and fans alike. “If I’m lucky enough to reach that mark,” concluded Leverett, “I’ll
definitely try to keep the ball.”

According to Toop, San Diego will be the best team we’ve faced since Coastal Carolina...defensively they're very tough.”

From Women, page 16

In the second frame, both Ashley Burgin ’06 and Stephanie Bouts ’05 stepped in to add two more scores each.
Amanda Traver ’07 recorded two assists in the second half, and the Citadel scored on itself for the final goal.
For the game, Davidson out-shot the Bulldogs 22-7. In one half of play, Hobart saved two Bulldog attempts, and goalies
Bevin English ’08 and Laura Schulenborg ’06 had two saves and one save, respectively, over the final 45 minutes. With
only four games left, and all of them conference matches, Davidson hopes to keep its first place status within SoCon.
This Wednesday’s game versus Wofford at 7 p.m. will be the last home game and Senior Night for the Wildcats.

STSTRAVEL.COM
Join America’s #1 Student Tour Operator
1-800-648-4849 / www.ststravel.com
