‘THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24, 2004

Vote Kerry: less patriotism, higher taxes
By Jack Huppart
Guest Columnist

The international community respects John Kerry and is more supportive of him than President Bush: Kerry stated that he’s met foreign leaders who are saying “You’ve got to win this, you’ve got to beat this guy, we need a new policy.” George Bush has damaged our image in the world, insisting that America’s interests come first, while completely ignoring countries like France who have better track records of defending themselves than the U.S. Bush has some nerve in not allowing the UN to dictate US policy. John Kerry is going to stop this Pro-American nonsense and start outsourcing our security responsibilities to the experts. The UN is much better suited to make decisions regarding U.S. military action than the elected President of the United States and John Kerry understands that.

The Bush team tried to claim that Kerry was making up his claim to foreign support, but this week Kerry has received two crucial endorsements that show how popular he is around the world. Kerry’s first big international endorsement was from Spain’s newly elected socialist Prime Minister Zapatero. Zapatero won his election on the grounds that Spain should leave Iraq in hopes that the terrorists will leave his country alone. The second big endorsement came from the world revered former Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad who believes John Kerry would “keep the world safer than President Bush.” Mahathir Mohamad has also stated that, “Muslims will forever be oppressed and dominated by the Europeans and the Jews.”

The Bush team can try all they want, but John Kerry has some of the most well-respected international socialists, appeasers, and anti-Semites in his corner of the ring. Let’s see Karl Rove respond to that. Anyway, let’s forget about terrorism because it really isn’t the most important issue in this election. Moving on, the American economy is in shambles with an unemployment rate of 5.6 percent. I fear we are in the worst economic period since the Great Depression. John Kerry is going to stop this Pro-American nonsense. In our recent history, no President has had such a terrible unemployment rate. President Clinton’s economic brilliance was able to maintain a healthy 5.6 percent unemployment rate in May of 1996. It is clear that this administration’s unemployment rate is much worse than Clinton’s, leaving our economy to be doomed.

John Kerry sees this drastic increase from 1996 as a result of companies moving overseas and taking their jobs with them. Unlike George Bush, John Kerry has a plan to stop companies from fleeing our shores. Kerry is going to tax the heck out of evil corporate America. These corporations will fall to their knees and come crawling back to our shores, excited to pay more of their profits to the federal government. Let’s take America out from under the dark cloud of exaggerated patriotism and conservative tax cuts. So on Election Day, you know who to vote for!

Labels categorize people, ideas too tightly
By Georgie Ahrendt
Staff Columnist

At the grocery store, you can pick up any box of cereal, can of soup or jar of pickles, read its label and find out exactly what it’s made of. But you can’t do that with human beings. Labels don’t reveal the stuff we’re made of. We don’t live in a black and white world. Not everyone will fit neatly into the categories of liberal or conservative, masculine or feminine, right or wrong. Not everyone fits snugly into our concepts of race, ethnicity, gender or religion.

Some people I know here at Davidson insist on labeling. Several people have labeled me an atheist because I don’t regularly attend church. But this word doesn’t describe me at all. In fact, I don’t think there is any word out there that could describe my religious beliefs. But people still try to label me. “Well, then, you must be agnostic,” they say. Nope. “Okay, then, you’ve got to be more like a Unitarian.” “Don’t think so,” I reply. “Then what are you?” I’m just Georgie.

I think one of the most prominent labels students at Davidson like to stamp on others is the liberal or conservative label. We like to characterize people by their political viewpoints. But I don’t think telling you who I voted for will tell you anything about my sense of humor, my personal values or who my friends are. I once heard a friend say, “I saw so-and-so reading a National Review. He must be a Republican.” If only things were so simple! If we could just look at a person and know everything about her or him, life would be so much easier. We would never have to waste our time getting to know anyone. And wouldn’t it be easier still if...liberals and conservatives were color-coded? If all the liberals walked around with blue skin and all the conservatives walked around with red skin, we’d already know with whom we best get along. Think of all the conflicts we would prevent! All sarcasm aside, I truly believe we apply labels for a reason. It feels natural for us to do it, and it helps us rationalize the world around us and handily navigate our way through it. Labels are useful. And from the outside, they seem to make sense. But labeling people can also be misleading, inaccurate, and dangerous. Most of us know better than to step into this quicksand of stereotypes, but we often stumble into it because it’s disguised to look like solid ground. Labels are often disguised to resemble the truth.

Labeling someone would be like trying to define a person on the side of a cereal box. There’s just not enough room to describe what makes someone who they are. I, for one, refuse to be imprisoned in a world of words. I’d rather define myself, thank you.

If someone were to pick me up at the grocery store and read my label, I would hope that it wouldn’t list my ingredients as: female, liberal, atheist, white. Like everyone else, I’m too complicated to be stereotyped. I'd rather just be me.

Long term gains exceed short term pains in globalized market
By RICHARD GUYER
Staff Columnist

I’m still not sure whether Ricardo Ampudia’s recent article was an attack against me and a few others, a condemnation of capitalism, or a general diatribe against the way economics is taught at Davidson. Perhaps it is some combination of these things, or something totally different. But regardless, I believe that Mr. Ampudia misunderstands the case that people like me put forth. My opinion is not a flippant dismissal of Noam Chomsky, but a decision to side with his intellectual rivals, such as Paul Krugman and Milton Friedman.

Economic theory leaves little place for assaults on the market-based organization of economies. There is no substitute for Adam Smith’s “invisible hand.” I do not pretend short-term human costs to this system are nonexistent — but I am certain that they are smaller than the long-term costs of any other economic mechanism yet developed.

The market system has created, top to bottom, the most prosperous civilization in history. Today, even the working classes in America and Europe live longer, more comfortable lives than almost anybody else in history. Moreover, they live better than their contemporaries elsewhere. Where would you rather be a member of the lower class today — Cambodia or Canada, Botswana or Belgium, Angola or America? The spread of the capitalist system is the surest way to bring the third world out of poverty. Without the creation of capital, technological innovation, and commercial spirit that free markets generate, there is scant hope for these lands. It’s difficult to contend that isolating India from trade with America is going to help the Indian people in any way; it’s just going to make it harder for them to find jobs.

Where would you rather be a member of the lower class today — Cambodia or Canada, Botswana or Belgium, Angola or America? Many third world nations have huge comparative advantages over the Western world in fields such as manufacturing and information technology. As I sought to show in my last column, utilization of these advantages benefits everyone.

The fact is, nothing can prevent globalization. Modern communications and transportation ensure that it will occur. It is easier than ever for people to do business all over the globe, and as long as the marginal benefits exceed the marginal costs, they will. Congress could try to prevent this, but the best — or is it worst? — it can do is slow the process. Besides, this will only delay people everywhere from realizing the benefits of trade.

Society should not ignore the short-term losers of globalization. When jobs get sent to India, people in the United States do suffer. But suggesting that capitalism is bad because it caused Bethlehem Steel to go under is like saying that surgeons should not remove cancers because a nasty scar can result. We do need to help the short-term losers. Policies which aid people through the bumpy yet inevitable transition towards a more global economy should be implemented. Perhaps, as Robert Reich suggests, the government should give wage insurance to families who lose their jobs to overseas workers, or maybe the state should invest in reeducation programs for displaced workers. But our power in this realm is limited; ultimately we must trust the innovative power of the free market. In the long run, everybody wins from globalization. Market-based societies are by nature flexible, and they will adapt to changing global conditions and emerge more prosperous than ever.