14 Tue DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2004

from Coach, page 16

ment [like the one here at Davidson] led us to him,” Murphy adds.

Already paying dividends

Although the season is young, Koehrn seems excited to be a part of a new beginning for Wildcat women’s soccer.
“So far, I think they are doing a great job. When we step out onto the field this year for
games, we have a little chip on our shoulder that was missing last year, and it is making all the
difference,” says Koehrn. The results seem to be paying off already, as the team is off to a great start.
“The outlook is great so far,” says Koehrn. “We are 1-0 [in the SoCon] and [3-2] for the season. The
win against Appalachian State on Thursday felt really great, beating probably the most physical team in our conference.”

Davidson’s new physicality was outlined by Ashton as a place the ’Cats needed to improve this year. “We need to
continue to work on our strength and conditioning in order to maintain a consistently high level of play throughout the
season,” Ashton says. “Coming here as a new coach, moving his family... was a big gamble, and we are trying
our hardest to make it worth his while.”

Not only does Davidson have a tough conference slate, but a road trip to California started off the season in
challenging fashion. Hopefully, the lessons learned in San Diego will come to fruition in SoCon play this fall. “The two
games in San Diego were tough, but we played very well, and showed a lot of promise for the upcoming
season, contending against such big schools [San Diego State and UC-Riverside].”

Clearly, Ashton’s arrival has begun to pay off, as the team seems to be on a path they unfortunately have
not been down in the past several years. “The win against UNC-Charlotte (1-0 on Aug. 29) was a great way
to start a season, having not beaten them in the past three years,” Koehrn adds.

All the right moves

The bottom line seems to be that the addition of Ashton and Corrigan to the Davidson soccer family has brought
new life to the Wildcats this year, and will hopefully continue to do so in the future. Even after a
dismal year in 2003, Ashton has the team looking to a new beginning. “What has happened has happened, and now
it is time to move on. [We can build on] a new fresh attitude of excitement and optimistic outlook for
the future,” says Ashton. “Everyone on the team has an opportunity to succeed and it is up to them to
take the chance or let it pass them by.”

With an unbelievable resume, “[Ashton] brings the experience and talent we believe are important to the success of our program
at this time,” Murphy says. Koehrn’s analysis sums it up best, as she says, “Playing for [Ashton] is really great.
He has really brought a new energy to the team. Seeing him excited about being here coaching us, putting a
lot of confidence in the team, has made us rise to new levels.”

“Coming here as a new coach, moving his family out to a different part of the country was a big
gamble, and we are trying our hardest to make it worth his while,” says Koehrn.

Coach Ashton and the Wildcats can next be seen in action at home on Sept. 15 at 7:00 against High
Point. On Sept. 17 they travel to Wake Forest. They do not play at home again until Sept. 29 at
5:00 against UNC-Asheville, a team they defeated at the beginning of last season.

Women’s Soccer nets two comeback wins

By Monica JAMOUNEAU (Staff Writer)

After a 1-2 start to open the 2004 season, the women’s soccer team rebounded this past week to defeat both
Appalachian State on Thursday and Gardner-Webb on Sunday. The ’Cats had to recover from early deficits to their opponents in
each game, but persevered to bring their record to 3-2 after the two wins.

Davidson opened up Southern Conference play with a 4-1 at Appalachian State. The match was planned for Wednesday, but was
postponed until the following day due to inclement weather in Boone. The Mountaineers opened up the scoring in the first
half, but Davidson answered with a goal by Jenny Soldano ’06 seven minutes later to take a 1-1 tie into
the locker room. “It took a few minutes for us to get adjusted, and that’s when we were scored on,”
said Soldano.

Davidson continued to put pressure on the Appalachian State defense in the second half, while the Mountaineers did not put
a shot on goal against Sarah Hobart ’05 after intermission. Early in the second half, Kara Koehrn ’06 executed a
perfect header into the top left corner of the Mountaineer net on an assist from Brittany Eddy ’06. Koehrn, who
was chosen for All-SoCon honors last year, also used her head to assist on the third Wildcat goal by Anne
Stevens ’07. Davidson kept up its domination for the rest of the second half, recording a fourth and final goal
at the 78:12 mark by Ashley Burgin ’06 on Eddy’s second assist of the game. For the game, the Wildcats
registered fifteen shots on goal, compared to just seven for the Mountaineers.

Sunday proved to be more difficult for the Davidson women, as the outcome was undecided after ninety minutes of play.
The Wildcats didn’t need much more time than that, however, as...Anne Stevens capped her solid day by scoring the game-winning
goal only twenty-eight seconds into the overtime period. Like on Thursday, Gardner-Webb took the lead first, forcing Davidson to play
catch-up for the rest of the game. The Bulldogs scored twenty minutes into the second half, but the Cats did
not panic with a one-goal deficit. Stevens’ first contribution came on an assist to Robin French ’07, who finished a
header into the opposing net with less than nine minutes left in regulation to tie the game at 1-1. Both
teams kept the opposition scoreless until the ninety minutes of play ran out. Then, the Wildcats needed less than half
a minute before Stevens scored unassisted for her second goal of the season.

“Our goal is to come out strong for every game,” said Soldano, “But if we get behind we have to
have the resilience to get back on top and control the game.” The Wildcats out-shot Gardner-Webb twelve to nine in
the contest and ended the Bulldogs’ nine-game winning streak at home in Boiling Springs. Davidson will take to the field
again tonight against High Point at 7 p.m. in Richardson Stadium.

Football’s fourth-quarter rally falls short
By STEPHEN J. HALLIDAY
Staff Writer

With slightly over eight minutes remaining in the fourth quarter and the team trailing by three touchdowns, the outlook for
the ’Cats looked dim against Coastal Carolina. With a slow start on offense and a defense struggling to stop the
run, Davidson trailed 31-10. Rather than concede defeat, however, the ’Cats launched an impressive rally and came within yards of
forcing overtime.

Davidson found itself behind big early in the game, as the Chanticleers piled up seventeen first-quarter points against the ’Cats
defense. Davidson was unable to answer the initial offensive explosion by Coastal, as the one Wildcat drive into the Chanticleer
red zone ended in a missed 35-yard field goal by new place-kicker Brad Smith ’07. Davidson eventually answered with a
long 12-play, 72-yard touchdown drive to get within 17-7, but the Chanticleers responded with a touchdown drive of their own
and took a commanding 24-10 lead into the locker room.

The second half seemed like much of the same for the Wildcats, as the Chanticleers had numerous scoring opportunities before
finally punching in a touchdown with just over eight minutes remaining to take the seemingly insurmountable 31-10 lead. That touchdown
appeared to awaken the Wildcats, however, as a quick scoring drive with long passes to Jake Rice ’06 and Brett
Dioguardi ’07 was capped off by John Leverett ’05 pounding it in from two yards out for his first touchdown
of the season. The defense held strong and forced Coastal to punt, but another long Wildcat drive ended in an
interception at the Chanticleer seven-yard line.

With the game again seemingly out of reach, the Davidson defense responded with another stop. After a 22-yard punt, the
’Cats launched another quick scoring drive, capped by a 15-yard touchdown reception by Leverett. With only 1:38 left in the
game, the ’Cats were forced to try an onside kick, which was recovered by Mark Nesselroad ’05. White led the
possible game-tying drive deep into Chanticleer territory, eventually facing fourth down at the five-yard line. With fourteen seconds remaining on
the clock, the pass went incomplete to tight end Jackson Whetsel ’07, sealing the victory for the Chanticleers.

Although the game resulted in a tough loss, the team showed great promise against a very strong opponent who last
year beat the ’Cats 52-27. White, who set a new school record with 431 passing yards and also threw for
two touchdowns, was named Co-PFL offensive player of the week for his efforts. Leverett also turned in an impressive performance,
with 40 yards rushing, 72 yards receiving, and two touchdowns. Rice also had a career day, catching 11 passes for
192 yards and a touchdown. On defense, the experienced linebacking corps once again proved fierce, led by Alex Arinsmier ’06,
who recorded 13 tackles including two tackles for loss, and safety Ricky Childers ’06, who led the team in tackles
with 14.

Next week the ’Cats face Division II Lenoir-Rhyne (0-3). Nevertheless, head coach Mike Toop says that the ’Cats will not
take this game lightly, as there are several areas which the team needs to improve from last week. One aspect
that certainly needs improvement is the run defense. Coastal out-rushed the ’Cats 208 to 54, allowing them to control the
ball and dominate the pace of the game early on. The offense also needs to avoid costly turnovers and White
needs to improve his decision-making, as he completed less than 50 percent of his passes and threw three interceptions in
this week’s game. The pass protection showed signs of improvement from last year, however, as the Wildcats allowed only four
sacks on 57 pass attempts.

Special teams also plagued the ’Cats throughout this game. In the first quarter, Coastal blocked two punts, leading to two
quick touchdowns and a sizeable early lead. The field goal kicking also continues to be an issue, though Smith did
convert his second field-goal opportunity to go 1-2 on the day. The receivers looked very good, however, with strong contributions
from Dioguardi, Brian Purcell ’06, and Rice. Toop also emphasized their downfield blocking, which contributed greatly to both the running
and short-range passing games.
