2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

704-651-6668

_ News

$10.00 Off 1st Brazilian or Back Wax!

Licensed Esthetician
With Over 10 Years Experience

Main Street
Davidson/Cornelius
Heritage Plaza - Suite 105
(Next to Carolina Cones)

_ WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004

COMA holds first meeting,
makes plans for semester

Despite ‘very good’ turnout, more
majority student participation wanted

By Adam Martin
Senior Staff Writer

The revived Committee on Minority Affairs wasted no time in planning upcoming events at its inaugural meeting of the semester, two weeks ago. This SGA committee is meant to serve as an umbrella organization for the ten minority student groups on campus.

Chairperson Tiffany Hollis ’04 hopes that COMA will reassume its role as a voice for minority concerns and a support for more minority activities. SGA reappointed Hollis last October to her second term as Chairperson. She is also the Vice President of the Black Student Coalition (BSC).

Despite a “very good” turnout at their meeting, Hollis wished to see more majority students interested in COMA and minority activities on campus.

“I want to open membership up to anyone who wants to help improve race relations, promote tolerance, and encourage diversity here on campus. We had a lot of people come, but I would have liked to have seen more than two white men,” said Hollis.

One of those white men was Mark Agerton ’06 who said, “I’m not really conscious of what ‘white privilege’ means on a day-to-day basis. I went to the meeting because I wanted to hear the concerns of minority students and I wanted to start actively seeking out opportunities to build relationships.”

Amrote Abdella, President of Davidson International Association (DIA), one of the minority groups under COMA, spoke of COMA’s contributions in years past.

“Our discussions have been very fruitful. Through COMA the concerns of some are spread to all the other minority groups. Through this, we are learning to understand our differences and creating a sense of unity. COMA also gives minorities one, stronger voice to administration,” he said.

Hollis emphasized COMA’s active involvement in student life. “We can get things done,” she said. “You got problems with the curriculum, tell us. Student life concerns, tell us. We have some financial resources for events and the administration’s ear for problems.”

COMA’s budget tripled this year to $450 and has already co-sponsored three events this semester.

On MLK Day members helped lead discussions on race. Last Monday they helped bring a Psychology professor from Guilford College to give a lecture about the “Integration of America’s Boarding Schools: Blacks in the White Elite” sponsored by the Public Lectures Committee and the Sociology Department as well as other organizations. The Gay-Straight Alliance (GSA) and COMA also recently held a film-fest in the Sprinkle Room.

On February 20, the Asian Cultural Awareness Association (ACAA) and COMA will bring the first Asian comedian to Davidson, Eliot Chang. Chang recently appeared on Comedy Central’s stand-up comedy show, Premium Blend.

The litany of minority organizations COMA represents includes the Jewish Student Union (JSU), Muslim Student Association (MSA), Davidson African Students Association (DASA), Organization of Latin American Students (OLAS), DIA, ACAA, BSC, GSA, Students for New Learning, and the Chronically Disabled Student Association (CDSA).

Historical note: Records show that one of the first student committees at Davidson created to provide social support for minorities began in 1984. This committee, Racial Attitudes Concerns Everyone (RACE), was chaired by a white student named Andrew Yon ’86. At that time “minority organizations” meant the BSC, the American Guild of Organists, Catholics, NOW, and the Young Libertarians.

Campus Police Blotter

2/7

Patterson Court

Unknown person(s) damaged the kitchen door at the KA house. Reporting officer found a number of glass panes broken out of the kitchen door. It appears that loose bricks from the sidewalk were used to break the glass. Estimated damage $200.00.

Damage to Property

www.philactr.edu

Get a taste of life in one of America’s greatest cities.
Earn academic credit living, working and studying in Philadelphia!

Financial Aid applies and Academic Credits transfer!

445.735.7900 |