12

By WILSON McCrory | Sports Editor |

It came as no surprise last Sunday to see that Vijay Singh had claimed yet another tournament victory in 2004, this time beating lefty Mike Weir in the Canadian Open after taking his first lead of the tournament on the 72nd hole of play. Singh has had a remarkable run this year, winning six PGA events, including the 2004 PGA Championship, his third career major championship win. The golfer from Fiji is the leading money-winner on tour, will soon be named Player of the Year, and recently stole Tiger Woods’ 264-week reign as the number one player in the world of golf. He finally overtook Tiger’s reign by beating him head-to-head in the final round of the Deutsche Bank Championship two weeks ago. His accomplishments are remarkable, especially for a 41-year-old man that should be past his prime. His swing looks effortless, and the results are even better. Still, I am not rooting for Vijay, nor will I cheer for Ernie Els or Phil Mickelson.

THE WEEK AHEAD

By RICHARD CONNOLLY Staff Columnist

At the risk of sounding too much like ESPN’s The Sports Guy, I’m going to tell you about my Fantasy League draft. Initially, I wasn’t going to do it. After all, what do you care about my friends and me? But, then I realized all sports fans—well, males at least—love fantasy sports. In fact, of the roughly 15 million fantasy players, 93 percent are males. What’s more, Sports Illustrated recently reported that only pornography is more profitable on the internet than fantasy sports. Now there’s a shocker. That’s like saying the only thing more profitable than hookers in Amsterdam are drugs. But, I’m getting sidetracked here.

We had all agreed that the draft would begin by 8 pm, and by some small miracle (or perhaps a testament to how little else happens in our lives) we all arrived on time. If you told this same group of guys to be anywhere else—say, class—three would have been tardy, two would have simply forgotten, three more would have sent an email with a bogus excuse and, inevitably, one would have mistaken “class” for “Brickhouse.” Our team names speak volumes to the level of maturity present that night. Imagine sending a group of fourth-graders to sex-ed, then asking them to come up with the most offensive combination of words they could, multiply this by ten and you’re halfway to understanding how our creative minds work. Somehow, several of us have girlfriends.

Anyway, prior to the draft I had spent the better part of an hour concocting a list of all the NFL players that I knew. As a hockey and baseball guy, creating said list was like Jessica Simpson trying to prove Pythagorean’s theorem. So I show up to the draft room proud that I had actually named more than a handful of guys at each major offensive position, only to discover that everyone else had simply gone to ESPN.com and printed the fantasy rankings. I felt like Lloyd Christmas when he discovers Harry Dunn went skiing with Mary Swanson—completely heartbroken and

PICKS OF THE WEEK:

Field Hockey vs. Longwood
Sunday, 9/19 at 1:00
Belk Turf Field

The Wildcats are still playing at home

By Drew BROOKIE Sports Editor

New York Yankees ace pitcher Kevin Brown recently punched a wall in frustration during a game against the Orioles, breaking his hand and putting him on the disabled list for the rest of the season. With the Boston Red Sox nipping at the Yankees' heels like Jack Russell terriers, Brown’s injury could not have possibly come at a worse time for the Yankees. Or, perhaps you are a Red Sox fan, such as myself, in which case you should join me by sending thank you notes, flowers, and “Don’t get well soon!” cards to Brown. At least, for the Yankees and Brown, the pitcher thought enough to punch with his left, non-pitching hand. But you can’t do that in a pennant race, or when you work for George Steinbrenner. Not when you get paid over 15 million dollars a year in order to throw a ball. Not ever.

The Yankees are sliding fast. First, they dropped from 10 1/2 games ahead of the Red Sox to 2 1/2. When they lost Brown, the Yankees had to promote Esteban (Where Have You

Admittedly, I have always been a big Tiger Woods fan since he stormed onto the golf scene with his record-setting victory at the 1997 Masters. He is everything golf could have hoped for; a vivacious force who has the star-power golfers have lacked for so many years. When Tiger plays, people show up inutterly betrayed. (If you don’t understand that analogy, stop reading now. Seriously, stop.) I draw the eighth pick, so I must sit there while my buddies employ the “best-available” tactic, meaning they simply take the highest-ranked player on ESPN’s list. This coming from a bunch of guys who none of you will see on Sundays until early February. And remember when you were little and couldn’t sit still on car trips, so you incessantly asked, “Are we there yet?” Well, my buddies have yet to evolve past that stage, so for two hours all you heard was, “Is it my turn yet?” I mean, it wasn’t exactly rocket science: nine guys pick in order, and then the ninth man turns around and begins the next round. Yet absolutely no one in the room could figure this out. Davidson, a self-proclaimed “highly selective” institution, admitted these guys. You tell me. Our draft finally ends with all of us hating each other, and some guys hating their teams. Not me. You see, I adhere to a certain set of guidelines when it comes to fantasy drafts. 

First, never print a list; lists are for attendance and food-shopping. You don’t show up to a party with a list of girls to talk to; you just pick and hope for the best. Same goes for fantasy. Second, as a Bostonian, never select a New York Jet. Giants, though frowned upon, are acceptable here, much like a Met would be and not a Yankee. Third, when in doubt, go with Brett Favre. The man was once addicted to painkillers, so there’s no way he gets injured. He has ibuprofen coursing through his veins, and that’s why he’s my backup QB. Which leads me to my final point. When Tom Brady is on the board in the 8th round, do as Harry and Lloyd would: pick him up! After all, you just never know when the guy will go 26-for-38 for 335 yards and 3 TDs. Sorry, Colts. And a heartfelt apology to my friends. The league is back together and to paraphrase Celtic great Larry Bird, “Who wants second place?”

Kevin Brown’s injury cost his team greatly, but it wasn’t the stupidest baseball injury ever. While Brown’s action was undoubtedly stupid, I can think of some other baseball injuries that far surpass Brown’s for idiocy. As much as I would love to take the rest of this column to berate Brown and the Yankees, it would be much more amusing to see how Brown’s injury ranks among the stupidest ever. So let me create a completely arbitrary new statistic called the Kevin Brown rating, starting at five for the number of fingers on his left hand. I will also count down the five dumbest baseball injuries, with Brown’s just making the list.

4. Earlier this year, Sammy Sosa sneezed his way onto the 15-day disabled list. The slugger strained a ligament in his lower back after suffering from a violent attack of the sneezes. How could a man that strong strain his back sneezing? One popular theory is that he may have had sawdust in his nose from carving bat barrels he was corking. When it actually happened, an embarrassed Sosa said, “It would have been better if I had run into a wall or had a fight with somebody.” What about a fight with a wall? Kevin Brown can attest that Sosa was wrong; it would not have been better. Kevin Brown Rating: 7

3. Back in 1990, another burly outfielder, Glenallen Hill, was sidelined by imaginary spiders. No joke, the man was having a nightmare about spiders and tried to run from the creepy crawlies in his sleep. He fell through a window and injured himself. 

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2004

Tiger Woods’ emergence has caused attendance to increase in droves, and ratings to skyrocket. There is no coincidence that the PGA and the game of golf in general have reached a golden era of success since the emergence of Tiger. After his stunning success in the ’97 Masters and his subsequent rise to the top of the golfing world, the PGA was able to negotiate a new TV package that was twice as high as the previous best. According to the Sporting News, since Tiger’s arrival on the PGA Tour, attendance, sponsor interest, and tournament purse money have all increased dramatically. Tiger is the front-man for Nike Golf, headlines his own EA Sports game, and makes more than $50 million away from golf annually. At the Wachovia Cup in Charlotte this past May, when people heard that Tiger was coming, there was an immediate buzz about golf. Tiger overtook Tar Heel basketball at the water-cooler, if only for a week. Woods is still the #2 player in the world.