16 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sports Talk...

PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat game of the week: Baseball vs. Duke
Sunday at 2:00 p.m. at Belk Stadium

When these two teams met at Davidson earlier in the season, Rob Wilson ’07 pitched a gem of a game, recording the 3-2 victory. Unfortunately, the ’Cats have not been playing nearly as well lately, as they are in the middle of a seven-game losing streak. Still, this Sunday's game is the last home game of the school year, so the 'Cats would like to go out on a high note. Come out to Belk Stadium to sit back and watch a little baseball on the last lazy Sunday afternoon of the year.

Outside the Den: Kings vs. Mavericks, Game 5
Thursday at 10:30 p.m. on TNT

With the Mavs down 3-1, Dirk, Steve, and Michael certainly have their backs against the wall. Still, Sacramento’s offense seems stagnant at times, and the Kings are certainly vulnerable as the team continues to mix and match rotations in an attempt to find ones that work well together. Also, Dallas is no stranger to this situation, as you can remember last year when they were up 3-0 against the Blazers and then proceeded to lose three straight. What did Nowitzki do in game seven, in the face of adversity? He shot 52 percent from the field for 32 points to go along with 11 rebounds. Can Dirk do it again this year? We'll just have to wait and see.

SPORTS

It’s been a pretty good year for sports at Davidson. The men’s soccer team made it all the way to the NCAA tournament, taking down top teams like Duke and South Carolina along the way. Meanwhile, the field hockey team won seven straight games — their longest streak in over a decade — en route to their first ever NorPac division title. Speaking of streaks, men’s basketball won all 13 of their games in Belk Arena on their way to a first-place finish in the South division of the SoCon.

The spring has seen some impressive Wildcat performances as well. Women’s tennis won a team-record eight games in the Southern Conference this year. And baseball, their recent losing streak aside, has beaten some of the best teams in the country this season. Seeing Davidson take out teams like Duke, Wake Forest, and No. 22 College of Charleston on our home turf should be enough to make any student here whip out a cell phone to call up any friends unfortunate enough to attend these esteemed universities and boast with pride.

That’s one of the best things about the sports here. We might go to a “highly selective independent liberal arts college for [only] 1,600 students,” but we take on some of the best — and biggest — schools in the country. More importantly, every once in a while we show that we can and will take them out. It’s very refreshing to anyone who’s ever fallen victim to a “you go where?” or “that’s in Pennsylvania (or Ohio), right?” to be able to say — even for just a night — The Blue Who? The Deacon What? That’s right, we’re not Stu-Pid (what a satisfying sore-loser salute), and our athletes can hold their own against your juiced-up jocks, too — then go home and churn out a fifteen-pager.

BY MIKE GIGLIO

And the best is yet to come. Many of our top players will be around for another year — or two, or three. Four of the top five batting averages on the baseball team belong to sophomores; the other to a junior. Field hockey’s top four scorers will be back next year. The Fillnow twins (juniors) might be the best doubles tandem to grace Covington Courts, and they dominate in singles, too (a combined 35-19 on their own this year). Kate Levitt ’07 was SoCon player of the month in March. The team will graduate just one player. So will lacrosse. The wrestling team has bounced back from near extinction in the last two years, and it now boasts two extremely strong classes of sophomores and freshmen. By the time the next two recruiting classes arrive, the team will have made a complete turnaround. Our best four golfers are freshmen and sophomores. So are some of our best runners and swimmers. Et cetera.

Men’s basketball will see all five of its top scorers return to the floor next season. Three of them are sophomores — including all-conference selection Brendan Winters, who could become the best player in the SoCon by the time he’s a senior. They’ll be back in the NCAA tourney before I graduate (in 2006). I'll be there screaming as loud as I can. I hope there will be a lot of you there yelling with me. As the level of play of the teams here increases, so should the level of intensity in the stands. The best part of beating all the teams I just mentioned is gloating about it.it — while it’s happening. And the best part of losing is being sore about it. Make the other team know you’re there. More importantly, make the other people who go to school here — and the athletes who are out playing even though they have just as much work as you do — know it too. Get out of the library and to the games on weeknights. Roll out of bed and to the field on weekends. Tailgate. Get excited, and be loud. Remember that pre-gaming implies that you’re going to a game afterwards. So go.

see Cats, page 17

Little Rascals of the Sports World: a vignette

Something a little different this week. If you were hoping for more streakers I apologize. I'd like to dedicate this to my editors Peter _ and Mike.

Little Rascals

(Three boys walking home from school)

Boy 1: What do ya'll want to do?
Boy 2: Why don’t you show us your new house?
Boy 3: Yeah. I want to check out that Playboy collection I’ve been hearing about.

(They enter Boy 1’s house.)

Boy 2: Can I bring these almonds with me?
Boy 1: Yeah, whatever.

(All three enter bedroom.)

Boy 3: This is tight, especially the big bed. Where are those Playboys?
Boy 1: Check the bottom drawer.
Boy 3: Ooooh, I like this centerfold, all in her nurse outfit. Delish!
Boy 2: Too bad you’ll never marry a woman that pretty unless you pay her. Baseball players like me get the best women.
Boy 1: (To Boy 2) Silence your baby-voice please. B-ball players get the finest women, everyone knows this.
Boy 3: I’m keeping this issue, aight?
Boy 1: No way, my dad will find out.
Boy 3: It’s all right. I’ll never get caught.

(Boys enter new room.)

Boy 1: Check it, this room's got the big screen, the bar, and my new squirt gun collection.
Boy 2: How’s this one work? (Points to squirt gun.)
Boy 1: Like this, see. I’ll hit that window. Bang.
Boy 3: Yeah, yeah, so cool. Can we play ball now?
Boy 2: If ya'll are gonna play ball then I’m gonna bounce. My godfather and me are hitting at the cages tonight.
Boy 1: Naw man, stick around, I thought we were all having dinner here.
Boy 2: What you having?
Boy 1: I think the Beef, Tuna, and Chicken casserole.
Boy 2: That sounds perfect, but let's keep this a secret, I don’t want my folks knowing that I’m eating all this meat.
Boy 3: Can we play already?
Boy 1: If you want to lose so badly, then yeah, let’s play.
Boy 3: Oh no, my dad said that I am the best 13-year-old he’s ever seen.
Boy 1: Big deal. I played with the Globetrotters last weekend.
Boy 2: Yeah, I guess I'll just chill over here.
Boy 1: Play some pinball. See if you can set a new record.
Boy 3: Check.

(Boys 1 and 3 begin to play basketball)

Boy 1: AHHHH! My leg! I think it is broken.
Mom: (yells) Jayson, Barry, Kobe! Dinner time!

- By RICHARD CONNOLLY Staff Columnist

Ah, the sports section. It’s the first, and often times the only, part of the morning paper I turn to. Judging by the piles of USA Today’s and Observer’s littered about the Union on any given day, it seems as though you people feel the same way. SportsCenter runs on repeat in my house to the point where my daily life seems to be narrated by Dan Patrick and Stuart Scott, and I’m sure some of you share a similar problem. At dinners and lunches, between classes and in the car, my friends and I talk almost exclusively about sports, girls, and food, and I wouldn’t believe anyone who told me they don’t talk about their team every single day. Let’s face it, we’re a culture and school obsessed, perhaps unhealthily, with sports.

For its part, I think the Davidsonian does a fine job putting together a sports section geared specifically towards athletics here at Davidson, but with a little national flavor as well. Sure, some of you may complain that the columnists tend to talk about Boston and New York all too often, but practically the only people who offer columns each week are from the Northeast. (Speaking of which, the Red Sox swept the Yankees in New York last weekend.) It’s not that we’ve monopolized this section; it’s just that no one else seems to write. Personally, I’d like to hear about how other people from other parts of the country feel about sports, and if I were you, I’d probably be sick of my pro-Boston crap too. Columns are not hard to put together; this one will take me maybe 30 minutes, and I’m doing it while watching TV and eating a delicious turkey sub from the Union.

(By the way, see South?, page 17)

CHARLOTTE