16 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2004

By Brian HELFRICH
Senior Staff Writer

The Davidson men’s soccer team had a flair for the dramatic all season long, and the final weekend of the
season proved no different. After rallying to stun top-seeded and No. 2-ranked UNC Greensboro on Friday in the Southern Conference
Tournament semi-finals, the fourth-seeded Wildcats suffered a golden-goal defeat at the hands of NCAA-Tournament bound College of Charleston on Sunday.
The ’Cats conclude their season with an 11-10-1 record—their fifth straight winning season, and fourth consecutive under head coach Matt
Spear ’93.

Semifinals: UNCG

Davidson traveled south to Charleston for the semifinals on Friday afternoon, looking to shock one of the nation’s finest squads.
Having played the Spartans exactly one month before and feeling disappointed by that 2-1 loss, the Wildcats entered the game
looking for revenge. In an even, hard-fought match, the Spartans jumped on top of the ’Cats early. Midway through the
first period, Southern Conference Freshman of the Year Matt Smith received a long pass and scored to give UNCG the
early 1-0 advantage.

The goal did not discourage the determined Wildcats, however, and falling behind inspired Davidson to play with more confidence and
initiative on the offensive end. A few minutes later, the ’Cats struck right back to tie the game at 1-1.
Mac Wilkie ’07 found Tom Lavan ’08 with space in the box and the freshman calmly slotted home the goal.
The two teams battled back and forth, but strong play by the back three of Joey Bass ’05, Nahum Navas
’06, and First Team All-Southern Conference John Latting ’06, along with goalkeeper Bart Creasman ’05, held the potent Spartan attack
at bay for the remainder of the contest. John Latting ’06 helped the ’Cats stop the UNCG attack with strong
defense, holding the Spartans to only one goal.

Sophomore Cass Baltz ’07 broke the deadlock with just 12 minutes remaining in the contest when he finished off a
pass from Marco Antunez ’07. Greensboro could not deny the Wildcats of the victory on this day, as the ’Cats
became the lowest-seeded team in history to reach the SoCon Tournament Championship.

“We were really confident heading into the game,” Spear said. “I don’t want to say that they looked past us,
but they weren’t prepared for us. It made some national headlines, and it was a good win against a top-ranked
team.”

Finals: Charleston

For the second straight season, Davidson faced off against College of Charleston in the championship match. Last year, a goal
by Nick Hansell ’03 sent the Wildcats into the NCAA field of 48, and the home side wanted revenge. In
a complete polar opposite of their meeting early this season, when Charleston defeated the visiting ’Cats 3-1, this contest remained
scoreless through regulation. Davidson had the automatic berth in its grasp when Lavan’s pass found the foot of fellow freshman
Robby Hoak ’08 with less than 20 seconds to play in the second half, but the Charleston goalkeeper stoned Hoak’s
shot from three yards out to extend the match into the golden goal period.

In the 99th minute of the game, a hard challenge by Bass earned the home team a free kick from
28 yards out. The Cougars’ Ben Hollingsworth headedIn the restart for Charleston, sending them to the NCAA Tournament and ending
the season for the ’Cats. It was only the second overtime loss for Davidson in seven tries this season.

“We were looking forward to this match because we didn’t play well against them earlier in the season,” Spear noted.
“We played well and did everything we needed to give ourselves a shot at winning. We left everything on the
field.”

Although the Wildcats end their season with a tough loss, they rallied from a 3-7 start to finish with an
8-3-1 record in their last 12 matches. Creasman, Bass, and fellow senior co-captain Ben Kittinger ’05 earned All-Tournament honors.

“We made a great late-season run,” Spear commented. “The three seniors did a lot to push the program further. We
have a great schedule for next year and I am confident that the program has never been as healthy as
it is now.”

Football ends season with disappointing loss to Georgetown
By STEPHEN J. HALLIDAY
Senior Staff Writer

On the first play from scrimmage in Davidson’s game against Georgetown this Saturday, running back John Leverett ’05 broke the
career rushing record that has stood for 23 years. With that seven-yard carry, Leverett surpassed Ray Sinclair ’82’s mark of
3,085 yards, making him the most prolific running back in the school’s history. Fellow running back Christian Hunt ’05 said
of Leverett’s record, “I think John was a great leader on the field and definitely played an instrumental role over
his career, so it is only fitting that he is the all-time leading rusher.”

Unfortunately, that record-setting moment was the highlight of the day for Davidson, as the ’Cats were unable to defeat the
Hoyas, losing 23-0 and ending the season with a disappointing record of 2-7. The offense looked promising to start the
game, leading a drive into Hoya territory and nearing scoring position. The drive was foiled, however, when Beaux Jones ’08
had his pass batted at the line of scrimmage and intercepted. The Hoyas then drove into field goal range, but
on third down Brandon Dete ’05 sacked the Hoyas’ quarterback, backing them up and forcing them to punt. The ’Cats
failed to move the ball on offense, however, and see Football, page 15.

The Wildcats failed to move the ball effectively on offense and ended the season 2-7.

Player of the Week
Matt Pendle ‘08
Wrestling
Hometown: Hazlet, New Jersey
Major: Undeclared

This weekend in the UNC Pembroke Classic, Pendle made the most of his debut as a Wildcat wrestler. The freshman
earned tournament MVP honors by pinning his first five opponents and winning the title bout at the 157-pound weight class.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Leverett Breaks Rushing Record

John Leverett ‘05 went into Saturday’s game with Georgetown needing only four yards to break the Davidson career rushing record.
On the first play from scrimmage of the game, he blasted his way up the middle in his typical hard-nosed
form for a seven-yard gain. The previous record of 3,085 yards, held by Ray Sinclair ‘82, stood for 23 years.
Leverett finished the game with 83 yards on 25 carries, giving him 3,165 yards in his career and 1,084 in
nine games this season.
