Campus Police Blotter

1/18 Patterson Court
Larceny of a tent
The canopy tent that had been set up for Patterson Court events on 1-16-04 had been torn down and damaged
by unknown person(s). Estimated value of damage: $50.00.

1/18 Patterson Court
Possession of drugs
Several students were caught at the SAE Frat House with drugs and drug paraphernalia.

1/19 Patterson Court
Larceny of a cell phone
Student reports that their Motorola cell phone was taken while attending a party at Phi Delta Theta. The cell phone
is valued at $250.00.

1/24 Patterson Court
Damage to Property
Student discovers that the rear glass door at the FIJI social house had been shattered by a vodka bottle. Total
loss value approximately $200.00.

News
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2004

New Chambers invites confusion, complaints and compliments
By LESLIE HEMPSON
Senior Staff Writer

Physical Plant, in collaboration with its contractor Rodgers Builders, completed construction on the north wing of Chambers over Winter Break
and began construction on the south wing. According to David Holthouser, Director of Physical Plant, the newly renovated north wing
is more energy-efficient than its predecessor. Construction workers installed occupancy monitors, sensors that automatically turn off the lights in a
classroom when no one is present, and a global lighting control system that permits the College to turn off all
the lights in Chambers instantly at an agreed-upon time.

Holthouser said, “Physical Plant spends a great deal of money in utilities, and we are constantly looking for ways to
reduce that amount and spend our energy dollars wiser. For the past three years, we have not increased the utilities
budget for this college one dollar, while at the same time, we have added more square footage. So obviously, we
are doing things more energy-efficiently than we did.”

In addition, the engineers responsible for designing the new wings moved all faculty offices to the extremes of the building
and filled central spaces with classrooms. Dr. Louis Ortmayer, Professor of Political Science, approves of this new arrangement. He explained,
“I like the configuration. I like that they’ve now dedicated the ends to faculty offices. I like that idea rather
than having [offices and classrooms] all mixed up. It’s quieter.”

Holthouser said that construction was proceeding at an exceptional pace. While Physical Plant and Rodgers Builders had originally planned to
devote one year to renovating each wing, they soon discovered that the north and south wings could be finished in
one semester each.

Although Holthouser said there was no strict target date, construction on the south wing will be completed before the beginning
of the next term. Construction on the center of Chambers, which includes Perkins Auditorium and the lobby, will start as
soon as students leave school for the summer and conclude before they arrive for the fall semester.

Students expressed mixed opinions regarding the renovation project. Putnam Ivey ’05 said, “I just feel like a lot of stuff
they put in [the north wing] is a new coat of paint.”I know there’s more to it, but I just
can’t see it. I guess the first day when I walked in, I was expecting a lot more change for
the construction they put in.” Many students complained that the new numbering system made it difficult for them to find
their classrooms. Anne Pearlstein ’06 said, “I think the numbering system is confusing. My first day of class, I think
I wandered through every hall looking for room 2130.” However, Pearlstein noted that the new technology and carpeting in most
classrooms were welcome additions. Holthouser said that Physical Plant had made a strong effort to improve handicap access to all
parts of the building and make bathrooms larger and more sanitary. The current phase of construction will be very similar
to the previous one. However, instead of just renovating classrooms and faculty offices, workers will also renovate administrative areas, such
as the Registrar’s Office and President’s Office.

Allport, from page 1

posed solely of raw foods can be very unhealthy. The second piece Allport read from was entitled “Eating Dirt” and
discussed the international habit of eating clay. Allport highlighted the medicinal and nutritional benefits of clay, including its high calcium
and iron content and ability to protect embryos against toxins a pregnant mother might digest. Allport’s final piece, “Eating at
the Ends of the Earth,” dealt with the typical Inuit diet characterized by eating large portions of meat but virtually
no carbohydrates. This diet has become popular in contemporary America through the Atkins’ diet. Allport indicated that although such a
diet might decrease one’s risk for heart disease and obesity, it contributes to such conditions as nosebleeds, large livers, and
osteoporosis. Allport commented on the anticipated effects of her lecture: “I think it might open some people’s minds concerning the
role of food in helping us become human.”

Allport attended Claremont College in New York for her undergraduate degree and received a Masters in Science from Tulane University
in New Orleans. At her home in Westchester, New York, Allport works as a full-time writer. She is a monthly
columnist for the science publication “Discoverer” and has published four non-fiction science-based books, including “Primal Feast: Food, Sex, Foraging, and
Love,” “Natural History of Parenting,” and “Sermons and Stones: Stone Walls of New York and New England.” Allport is teaching
Intermediate Composition and Writing Nonfiction Prose this semester, both concerning the art of science writing. This is Allport’s first teaching
experience. “I was very nervous initially about teaching, but the students have been helping me, and we seem to be
having a good time,” said Allport. Jessica Broaddus ’06, a student in Allport’s Nonfiction Prose class, said, “I’ve never done
science writing before, but Professor Allport has gotten me really interested in it. She has opened my mind concerning what
science writing consists of; it can be much more personal than I would have thought.” English Professor Dr. Cynthia Lewis
said, “As a teacher of non-fiction, I’m thrilled to welcome a McGee Professor of Professor Allport’s stature.”
