DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Che £ @ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @ WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2004

First Class U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC

VOLUME 96, NUMBER 3

Bats invade Fourth Watts dormitory
RLO works to remove unwanted visitors from Watts attic

By BEN WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

Bats invaded three separate rooms on the fourth floor of Watts Residence Hall during the past few weeks. While no
bites have been reported, one sophomore sustained minor injury in removing the animals. School officials are looking to contain the
bats, which nest in Watts’ attic.

“You can hear them fluttering around at night,” said Lisa Vander Griend ’07.

Current residents began having problems two weeks ago. In the first incident, a bat entered the room of sophomores Ariel
Bugosh and Ruchi Turakhia through an open window. The bat perched behind the blinds for some time before they noticed
it.

“When I heard it rustling behind my blinds, I thought it was a bug. Once I realized it was a
bat, all I could think was rabies, so I left as fast as I could,” said Bugosh. “Fortunately there were
enough gutsy people on the hall who were willing to chase the bat around the room for over an hour
until they caught it and took it away. It was very disturbing and I haven't opened my window since.”

“Gutsy people” Elizabeth Berndt ’07 and Amir Vaez ’07 captured the bat and released it outside the building.

“I was going to throw shoes at it, but some people had caught it in a cereal bowl,” said fourth
Watts Resident Advisor Lauren Finley ’07. “It’s good it didn’t get hurt.”

A few days later, Mandy Rhyne ’07 fell asleep in the late afternoon with her windows open. Rhyne awoke after
dark to find a brown bat circling around her room. Rhyne lay frozen for several moments before covering herself in
a blanket and darting into the hall. She then yelled for help. Coming to her aid, Berndt entered the room
and tried to drive the bat out the window with a lacrosse stick. Chad Barlow ’07 later joined the effort,
using his hat to strike at the bat. While successful in forcing the bat out the window, Barlow pulled a
muscle in his neck.

“It’s still pretty sore,” said Barlow.

A few days after the incident, Berndt and her roommate Margaret Whipple ’07 awoke at 6 a.m. to find two
bats perched on their blinds. Berndt managed to knock one bat out the window and trap the other in a
trash can. Her window had been closed, however, prompting concerns that the bats entered through holes in her closet.

“The first thing that concerned me was that bats can carry diseases, especially rabies,” said Berndt. “If someone gets bitten,
it could keep them out of school for weeks.”

Biology professor Matt Stanback reassures Davidson students that the risk is minimal. “The bats on fourth Watts are big.”

See Bats, page 2

Students gather beside the Chambers flagpole on September 11. See story, page 3.

A&L, PAGE 6

First years mingle with the rest of the campus for the first time on Patterson Court during First Night Down.

First Night Down sees fewer violations, mixed reviews

By CAREY BAXTER
Staff Writer

After much anticipation, First Night Down came and went with fewer violations than last year and mixed reviews. First Night
Down names the first Friday that first-year students are allowed down to Patterson Court, occurring after three weeks of school.
It officially begins the recruitment season for fraternities and eating houses. And it is “a“Rite of passage,” according to Davidson
College Chief of Police Fountain Walker. Walker reports that “between Friday and Saturday, approximately seven alcohol violations were issued by
your Public Safety & Police Department. There were two individuals transported to the hospital due to alcohol-induced illnesses. One was
a student and the other an alum.” Public Safety issued more violations last year, “but not by much,” said Walker.

Walker expressed a desire for students to enjoy themselves but to be aware of the fact that they can go
too far. Officers from Public Safety went to every freshman hall before First Night Down to remind students of the
health risks of alcohol abuse. “Our expectation is for people to be safe and be aware of one another,” he
said last Thursday. “I want people to be looking out for each other.”

Eight of the 12 houses of Patterson Court underwent serious makeovers prior to the big event. Thanks to a financial
gift from Davidson College, “the houses have received upgrades in kitchen equipment, enlarged bathroom facilities, and cosmetic refurbishment,” said Patterson
Court Advisor Joy Hamm. Other improvements include central heating and air conditioning and new fire and security systems. Members of
the houses participated in the renovation process by choosing their own interior layout design. They also decided on paint color
and tile style “to make the house see Court, page 5.

Davidson recognized for student-faculty research
By Jackie McKeon
Staff Writer

Davidson’s commitment to undergraduate research opportunities was recently recognized in U.S. News and World Report’s annual ranking of Colleges and
Universities. Davidson was among 36 institutions most mentioned in a peer assessment survey of colleges at which faculty members and
students “do intensive and self-directed research or creative work that results in an original scholarly paper or other product that
can be formally presented on or off campus.” Davidson shared the list with such schools as Williams, Carleton, Harvard, Duke,
and UC-Berkeley.

“We’ve set ourselves apart,” said President Vagt of the U.S. News recognition. “Over the last four to five years, student-faculty
research has see Research, page 3.

Professor Herb Jackson at work in his art studio.

The double life of Dean Jeffries
Assistant Dean of Students serves as pastor on Sundays
By Kate Gillespie
Staff Writer

Monday through Friday, Assistant Dean of Student Life Ernest Jeffries handles minority student services and provides academic support for the
college. On Sundays, however, he takes on a different mission: ministering to the congregation of Gethsemane Baptist Church.

“I’m a person who is really moved and inspired by people and the relationships I form,” Jeffries said. “Just to
see people being uplifted and encouraged after a service inspires me. Church is a place where people with problems need
to come to get a different perspective of how they can handle their problems.”

Jeffries began working as a dean at Davidson nine years ago and is currently responsible for providing support and services
to minority students. He directs the tutoring program and administers student emergency loans. Jeffries also serves as the college’s chief
judicial officer, meaning that he oversees the Code of Responsibility and the process that students go through when they commit
Honor Code infractions.

Jeffries’ positions as Assistant Dean of Student Life and advisor of the Black Student Coalition, Alpha Phi Alpha, Intervarsity Fellowship,
and the gospel choir have allowed see Jeffries, page 4.

Over concerns
PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 11

NEWS: Jewish poets visit Davidson
SEE PAGE 2

Columnists spar pre-election
Fantasy Football rules and advice
SPORTS, PAGE 12
