THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Nolan continues to build strong legacy in final season

By AUSTIN MERCADANTE
Senior Staff Writer

Last Tuesday, Sarah Nolan ’05 was selected as one of the two goalkeepers for the South in the Division I
North/South Senior Field Hockey All-Star Game, adding yet another credential to her ever-growing resume as one of the best goalkeepers
in Davidson history.

Nolan has been a stalwart on the defensive end for Davidson since her freshman year, when she started three games
for the Wildcats and registered a team-best 2.36 goals-against average. As a sophomore, Nolan took over the goalkeeping duties full
time, and she played every single minute of the 2002 season in goal for the ’Cats en route to being
named the Team MVP that year. Last year, Nolan posted four shutouts and eight wins to earn yet another team
MVP award and help carry Davidson to a first-place finish in the NorPac’s East Division. She was also named second
team All-NorPac in 2003, as well as the NorPac East Division Defensive Player of the Year.

Nolan was ranked in the top 20 in the nation last year for saves and save percentage; this year she
is ranked 11th in the country for her 136 saves. Nolan is also ranked No. 1 in the NorPac for
saves. Nolan commented on her records, which also include all-time Davidson records for minutes played (over 4300) and total saves
(505), “Those records are all pretty great to have. It’s fun to have the last four years of hockey imprinted
in the record books. It says a lot about what a great four years it’s been.”

All these honors, awards, and nominations show how integral Sarah Nolan is to the Wildcat defense. Coach Lisa Thompson says,
“Sarah is a strong and decisive leader on the field. Her competitiveness and skill have made a huge difference in
the direction of this program.”

With the NorPac tournament looming on the horizon, the team’s thoughts are focused on their first-round game against Cal Berkeley,
currently ranked No. 15 in the nation. Nolan says, “As a team, we’re just looking to go into the tournament
and win one moment at a time, and if we lose any moments, our plan is to just keep on
pushing through and win the rest of them.” With the experience gained from playing some of the best teams in
the nation during the regular season, the field hockey team looks to be well prepared for this year’s tournament, which,
incidentally, will be hosted by Davidson this Thursday-Saturday.

Entering her senior NorPac tournament, Nolan has earned many accolades for her play, and she works hard to elevate the
play of her teammates as well as her own. “Personally, I want to do my job on the field this
week to prepare my teammates and myself...My goal is to play the best field hockey that I’ve ever played in
my life,” says Nolan. Coach Thompson effectively summarized Nolan’s importance to the team, “The legacy Sarah is leaving on this
program is truly remarkable.”

Women’s Soccer unable to end regular season with win

By MONICA JAMOUNEAU
Staff Writer

Women’s soccer ended the regular season with a pair of losses to conference foes College of Charleston and UNC-Greensboro last
week. Davidson dropped from a tie for first place in the Southern Conference with UNC-G to sharing third with UT-Chattanooga
with a 7-3-1 conference mark.

Last Thursday’s game against the Spartans of UNC-Greensboro was the deciding match for the conference championship, and the Wildcats’ 2-0
loss dropped Davidson to second place in the Southern Conference. The hosting Spartan team dominated the first half of play,
outshooting the Wildcats 7-2, but neither team was able to get on the board before the break.

Davidson came out strong from the locker room, with Jenny Soldano ’06 and Kara Koehrn ’06 each nearly driving the
ball past the Spartan keeper for the game’s first goal. Unfortunately for the Wildcats, neither player was able to convert
on scoring chances, and UNC-G finally converted on a corner kick opportunity with less than 25 minutes to play to
take a 1-0 lead. The Spartans’ second goal came in the 87th minute and squelched any chance of a Wildcat
comeback.

After the 2-0 loss, the women then traveled to South Carolina on Sunday afternoon to play the College of Charleston
for second place in the conference. Despite entering halftime tied 1-1, Davidson could not finish on another shot for the
remainder of the game. Charleston got on the board first just 10 minutes into the contest, but Kristen Koehrn ’08
scored on an assist by Soldano to put the Wildcats on the scoreboard with about seven minutes left to go
before halftime. The goal was Koehrn’s first of the season, but it would not be enough for the Wildcats. After
the break, Charleston scored in the 75th minute, and the Cougars controlled the ball for the remainder of the game
to claim the 2-1 win. Overall, the Cougars outshot the Wildcats 14-4 in the contest.“In regards to the season as
a whole, I think we are excited with the progress we have made. I wouldn’t say content, as we felt
we had the potential to really win the conference. However, I cannot even begin to explain the fervor on this
team in anticipation for the coming weekend,” said Hobart. Her teammate Kara Koehrn agrees that the team is really looking
forward to the post-season. She said, “All of the losses we have had this season in SoCon play have been
winnable games for us. There is not a team in this conference I feel we cannot beat.” With the regular
season over, Davidson is preparing to travel to Greensboro to participate in the Southern Conference tournament taking place Nov. 4-7.

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2004

...will prove to be a tough first round match-up for the Cats. For more NorPac Field Hockey information, check out
www.norpacfieldhockey.com, the official conference website. The tournament begins at 11 a.m. on Thursday, and continues through Saturday, with the championship
game at 12:30 p.m.

Field Hockey falls in last two regular season matches
By Britt MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

Heading into the final week of the regular season, the field hockey team anticipated a favorable outcome in their two
matches against NorPac opponents. Unfortunately, things did not go as planned as they lost 2-0 to Appalachian State last Wednesday,
and 2-0 as well against Radford on Sunday.

In the game against the Mountaineers, the Cats were looking to continue their recent NorPac success, as they had just
come off a thrilling overtime victory against Saint Louis University. It was not to be, though, as App. State outshot
Davidson 15-6 on the way to a 2-0 victory. Although the game was close for the majority of the first
half, a lucky bounce off a Davidson defender gave the Mountaineers a lead they would not lose for the remainder
of the game. A score a minute into the second half sealed the deal for App. State, as they climbed
to a 2-4 record in the NorPac East Division.

Some bright spots in the game for Davidson included a defensive save by Courtney Hughes ’05 to bring her total
to a conference-leading eight for the season, as well as 10 saves for goalkeeper Sarah Nolan ’05. Unfortunately, it was
not enough to save the game for Davidson, as the team fell to a 1-4 record in the division with
undefeated Radford next on the schedule.

The first match between Davidson and Radford early in the season was an intense game, with Radford ultimately coming out
on top with a 1-0 score. Although the result was nearly the same, the level of play dropped from the
previous game as Radford dominated the Wildcats, especially on the defensive end of the field. The Highlanders limited the Wildcat
offense to only four shots the entire game while engineering 17 opportunities on the other end of the field. Radford
scored their first goal a little less than thirty minutes into the first half, and a second half goal for
the Highlanders ended any thought of a Davidson comeback.

Although Davidson coach Lisa Thompson was unhappy with the performance of her team, she is still optimistic about next week’s
NorPac tournament, which is hosted by Davidson this year. “We did not play the level of aggressive hockey that was
needed,” Thompson said, “but we have a great home field advantage for the NorPac tournament.” In order to succeed in
the tournament, Thompson said, “We need to play skilled, aggressive and tenacious hockey to get the job done.” The victory
ensured the Highlanders of their first undefeated season in the NorPac East Division. Davidson, on the other hand, had to
settle for the number four seed in the East and will face California, the West’s first seed and the defending
NorPac conference champion, on Thursday at 1:30 p.m.

From X-Country, page 16

...that since we did not have any front runners, we would have to pack in five finishers fairly closely together
as we had done the past two races. Unfortunately, we did not get this, with two of our top five
runners having a sub-par day.” Co-captain Nick Lehman ’05 added, “We were not pleased with finishing sixth. This is the
third year in a row now we’ve been sixth in the SoCon, so it is certainly a little disappointing and
frustrating that we seem to have gotten stuck at that spot.”

Nonetheless, with the regional competition still looming for both teams, there is opportunity to end the season in a better
way. To build toward that end, Brew said that the women will have to “pull together as a team more
than we did at SoCon.” Regarding the next meet, Andrew said, “The Regions give us a chance to regroup and
end the season on a high note. We have run well at the Regions in the past and I expect
the guys to do so again this year.”

The NCAA Southeast Region Championships will take place at ECU in Greenville, NC on Saturday, Nov. 13th.
