THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2004

Fix the Patriot Act
By SIAN JONES

There is no God, but there are us atheists
By JC Bove
Guest Columnist

Do you wake up in the morning thinking about your civil liberties? If the answer is no, you’re probably not
alone, and I would guess that the most invasive procedure you have been subjected to is a bag search at
the airport. Since the passage of the Patriot Act in late 2001 though, the government’s ability to access information most
of us consider private, conduct secret searches of property, and, ultimately, make arrests with less substantial evidence has been greatly
increased. If you’re sitting there saying “I haven’t and won’t do anything to make the Feds want to look at
my stuff,” you might be right, but you might also be Oregon lawyer and Muslim convert Brandon Mayfield who spent
two weeks in jail in connection with the Madrid train bombings based on a fingerprint that wasn’t his and “Spanish
documents” obtained through a secret search which turned out to be his kid’s homework.

Yes, John Kerry did vote for the Patriot Act in 2001 and yes, now he does not support renewing it
in its entirety next year when its “sunset clauses” come due. Voting for legislation in Congress and subsequently opposing its
flaws and abuses of its provisions by members of the Executive Branch, namely John Ashcroft’s Justice Department, however, does not
a flip-flopper make. The practical fact is that, in the climate immediately following the attacks of September 11, 2001 and
the subsequent anthrax scares, there seemed to be little time to debate the flaws and the Justice Department and the
F.B.I. have since exploited them every way they can. The Bush administration likes to say that Senator Kerry opposes renewing
this vital tool in the war on terror when it expires in 2005. This is misleading because only certain parts
of the Patriot Act will be reviewed next year, and those are primarily the most controversial portions like the authorization
to search people’s public library records.

In the end, laws are only as good as the people who implement them. John Kerry actually supports the majority
of the Patriot Act and the improvements he advocates aim to reverse the limits placed on the courts’ ability to
review the actions of law enforcement officials, who can currently do all sorts of things by simply telling a judge
that they are protecting against terrorism. Federal officials already had many of the surveillance abilities that the Bush administration lauds
through the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978, the Patriot Act just makes them applicable to more cases, including non-terrorist
criminal ones. In the end, laws are only as good as the people who implement them and the biggest flaw
with the Patriot Act is that President Bush’s Attorney General is more concerned with using domestic spying to short-cut good
detective work than he is in finding a way to balance our civil liberties with his job to keep us
safe. The best way to protect ourselves and the principles we are fighting the war on terror to protect is
to inform ourselves about what the government is doing and to remove those who don’t value those principles.

Staff Columnist

Last issue’s article on campus religious diversity scored an important point by omission — nowhere was there mention of a
student organization for freethinkers, and the existence of possible members of the demographic was barely touched upon. Given that there
is no evidence of the absence (pun intended) of atheist and agnostic students, this should not be the case. Davidson
atheists — say it loud! You're godless and proud!

The transition from a wholly secular environment to Davidson came as a breath of oddly-scented air. In high school, more
of my friends were Hindu than Christian. Here, people make an effort to wake up early on Sundays and even
bow their heads before every meal. I am reminded of the famous reaction to the 1972 election: “But no one
I know voted for Nixon!” Sure, I knew evangelical Christians existed, I’d seen them on street corners, I’d looked at
polling data, but how could so many of them be so nearby? The Christian presence on campus is pervasive. While
there are frequent events sponsored by a plethora of religious organizations, I have yet to witness even one flyer for
a gathering of secular humanists. According to statistics cited in The Davidsonian, one-fifth of the student body is non-Christian, so
the lack of presence must somehow have to do with lack of ambition. As a significant minority under a vocal
religious majority, more than anything we need some semblance of a presence. The need is clear and the possibilities are
obvious. Not only would an atheist organization promote diversity, it could also serve as a forum for discussion in order
to bridge the gaps between the sectarian and secular. Many Christians on campus may have never engaged in an organized
discussion with atheists or agnostics, and a significant percentage of the latter group may not have been able to find
fellow secularists. It’s long been time to promote true religious diversity and establish an organization for this significant demographic. Davidson
atheists — say it loud! You’re godless and proud!

Election polling is inexact, but still useful
By Laurin Arial, Ev Chapin, Lauren Martin, Bill Riggs & The Students of Political Science 319, Public Opinion
Special Contributors

In the elections this fall, polls have dominated many discussions and arguments with our families and friends. We think it
is important to address several questions that emerged from the discussions, because their answers are crucial for understanding how elections
work.

When is a candidate really ahead? A September Gallup poll gave George Bush a 51/45 lead. This 6-point advantage was
greater than the survey’s 4-point margin of error. Many observers concluded that the president had a small but real lead.
This interpretation is incorrect. The poll only suggests that we can be 95% confident that Bush’s true support lies between
47 and 55 (i.e., 51 +/- the margin of error). If his true support lay at 47, Kerry’s true support
could easily be at 49, putting the Democrat ahead. The moral of the example is that a candidate’sLead in a
poll must be at least twice the margin of error for us to be confident of the candidate’s advantage. Why
do polls give different results? Surveys include different types of people. In the same Gallup poll, Bush’s 6-point advantage was
among all adults in the survey. But among the poll’s likely voters, that advantage jumped to 13 points. The latter
number is arguably a better predictor of the election. Polling results also vary because of the partisan composition of the
survey samples. Gallup’s 13-point margin for Bush was larger than in other polls, in part because Gallup’s sample included a
higher percentage of Republicans than the other polls (and than the actual voters in 2000). With more GOP respondents, it’s
not surprising that the Gallup poll produced a bigger Republican advantage.

Is the wording of questions important? Yes! One survey in the mid-1990s asked Americans if they favored “cuts” to Medicare
in order to balance the budget. Only 27 percent of respondents expressed support. At the same time, another poll asked
the same question but used “limits” to Medicare. This time, support increased to 41 percent. These framing effects certainly do
not discredit all polls. People are sensitive to the specific policy differences, such as between cutting and limiting Medicare. But,
it is difficult to determine objectively whether one interpretation of an issue is better than another.

What’s the use of polls? In close elections, surveys often tell us little about which candidate is ahead. In this
year’s presidential race, many survey margins aren’t large enough to determine who’s leading. But at the same time, we should
not dismiss all surveys. They can tell us why people support candidates, particularly how the public reacts to competing interpretations
of issues. These interpretations are the tools that politicians use to build electoral coalitions. In their efforts to win election
as our representatives, candidates attempt to define policy issues and alternatives in a way that links often disparate groups and
voters. Polls tell us which of these arguments and coalitions are strongest, and which ones will crumble on Election Day.

Bush II, like his father, was born with a silver foot in his mouth
By HALLEY AELION
Staff Columnist

Bush is a rich, white, Christian man. I challenge anyone to think of a more obvious statement. Yes, Kerry fits
this description as well, but there is something about Bush that makes these characteristics painfully obvious. Maybe it’s the condescending
tone he takes when talking about homosexuals. Maybe it’s the blatant disregard he shows for a woman’s right to choose.
Maybe it’s the confident way he throws his religion into the faces of voters everywhere, assured his god is THE
god, and no one has a right to challenge his decision to use faith in a secular setting. Maybe it’s
all these things. But in the last debate, it was Bush’s stance on health care that really underscored his white
Anglo-Saxon Protestant self and the way he abuses that identity.

The misconception that it is in everyone’s power to pull themselves up by their bootstraps is most commonly found among
those born with a silver spoon in their mouth, a category of people with which Bush is easily identified. To
watch this man, sent to Yale because of legacy and handed oil companies worth billions of dollars by his daddy,
get up in front of America and defend his decision to give tax cuts to the wealthiest top percent of
Americans in the place of giving more working-class Americans and their families health coverage, is a disgrace. What is the
single mother trying to support her two school-aged kids supposed to do when her youngest gets sick? Considering Bush is
the first president in over half a century to be in office during a time when the number of jobs
in America has been declining, taking substantial time off work is not an option. Four million more Americans are now
without health care than before Bush’s term began. Without adequate health care, however, there is going to be no one
to prescribe the right medications or diagnose the illness of her child quickly and accurately. This single mother is going
to need help, but Bush is not going to be the one to give it.

However, things could be worse. Think about the same family in the same situation, except that the mother has just
brought her two children to America after having obtained legal citizenship from Mexico. By depriving this mother of health care,
Bush has basically sentenced her to failure. In a new country, she has no one to which to turn, no
family or friends to call for help. One illness and that’s the end of the road. The fortunate tend to
forget that there are people out there who are, essentially and tragically, alone. It’s an alien thought to most of
us here at Davidson, as it is to our president. But just because it does not affect us, that doesn’t
mean we can turn our backs on those without financial and social security. Ironically, as leader of the country whose
Statue of Liberty asks, “Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses,” Bush has consistently and definitively managed to
present his back to his people time and again. Health care costs have gone up 64 percent under Bush, and,
not surprisingly, four million more Americans are now without health care than before Bush’s term began. The number of Americans
without health care is now at a record high 44 million people.

Kerry has plans to fix this. Yes, these plans come at a cost, but Kerry is ready to get privately
run health insurance companies involved in his plan, which would take some of the burden off taxpayers. Additionally, Kerry has
no plans to give tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans, which will further add to funds for his plans to
better the quality of life for all citizens. So go back to your oil fields, Bush. Go back to where
you are comfortable as ‘king,’ among your white and Christian family-owned land. America is far from white and Christian, and
it is far from your land.
