_ THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, March 31, 2004 5

Davidson greets Belk nominees

By Blair McGraw
Senior Staff Writer

The finalists for the nine 2004 John Montgomery Belk Scholarships visited Davidson for final interviews this past Thursday and Friday. Thirty high school seniors from 19 states were present on campus for the interviews and also to get a taste of life at Davidson. This year, for the first time, the Belk Scholarship interviews were not held during Scholars Weekend.

The nine final recipients will receive comprehensive funding for tuition, room, board, and fees. This year, there were 586 nominations for the Belk Scholarships. The field was narrowed down to 130 and then to 65 potential scholars who admissions staffers interviewed by telephone. The 30 finalists were then invited to Davidson for last weekend’s events.

The finalists arrived on Thursday evening when they were matched with hosts, almost all of whom were current Belk Scholars. “The current scholars are absolutely integral to the event,” said Sally Stone Richmond, Associate Dean of Admission and Financial Aid and Belk Scholarship Coordinator.

The Belk Scholarship program began when John Montgomery Belk, a Davidson graduate from the class of ’43, gave the college a gift of $28 million. Belk feels the scholarship program will bring the country’s best students to Davidson. Dean Nancy Cable, Dean of Admission and Financial Aid, said that Belk Scholars must demonstrate “superlative leadership, athletics, service, student government, and civics,” as well as “superlative academics, character, and principled leadership.” The scholarships are given to those students “who will make a difference even in a community as stellar as [Davidson],” said Cable.

The Belk Scholarship is a “tool that really helps to draw kids’ interests to Davidson especially outside of the Southeast region,” said Wilson McCrory ’07, a current Belk Scholar who hosted one of the finalists last week.

On Friday, the finalists had breakfast with their hosts, attended classes, and heard from a distinguished faculty panel. “We were able to show them what we believe Davidson has to offer,” McCrory said. “Davidson really comes alive when the kids come here.”

In the afternoon, the final interviews were given to each finalist by teams of four. Each interview team included at least one professor and one current Belk Scholar. Former judge Claudia Belk, wife of John Belk, is also active in the selection process as she serves on one of the interview teams. Although only nine scholars will be chosen, “it’s likely that every strong candidate will be given some form of merit-based aid,” said Cable.

Cable stressed that the Belk Scholarship program is different from those at other major schools, such as the University of North Carolina, since there is an effort to integrate the Belk Scholars into the community and student body at Davidson. “It is important to understand that is one of the differences from the other major programs,” said Cable.

Admissions, from page 1

...cess in further realizing Davidson’s goal of diversity. However, while minority acceptances increased, according to Ortmayer, “alumni’s kids’ acceptance rates went down to its lowest rate in a while.” This does not suggest that the quality of potential legacies has decreased at all; rather, there is simply the fact that their applications...Average ACT scores for the students accepted into the class of 2008 ranged from 28 to 33. The middle 50 percent for SAT scores was between 1350 and 1500. Quality has not increased at the same rate as the quality of the rest of the applicant pool. This is simply one of the disadvantages of Davidson’s increasing competitiveness, Ortmayer said. “Good students who in previous years would have gotten in, didn’t this year,” he said. Vagt was “delighted with the increased number of applicants and interest in Davidson College” as well as the continued increase in “breadth and depth” of each individual student that applies. The average ACT scores for accepted Regular Decision applicants ranged from 28-33. The middle 50 percent for SAT scores was between 1350 and 1500. Within the first hour of posting the results on the web, 479 applicants logged in to discover their fate. The rise of Davidson applicants' statistics often leads current students to ask, “Would I get in if I applied this year?” Vagt assures that he hasn’t seen a “paradigm shift” in the kind of Davidson student enrolling over the last seven years.

Early vs. Regular Decision
Before Regular Decision applicants were admitted, Early Decision applicants already filled 188 of the 460 slots available. Admitting such a high percentage—41 percent—of the class raises questions of fairness to Regular Decision applicants, who face more rigorous competition as a result of this. “You end up penalizing students who perhaps are looking at their college choices from a broader perspective,” said Ortmayer. Ortmayer thinks this will be an important topic of discussion among this year’s Admissions self-evaluations, which occur annually. He also thinks that his committee would probably feel more comfortable admitting around 33 percent of the class through Early Decision.

The Work Ahead
Vagt, Ortmayer, and an Admissions representative all agreed that the real work involves convincing these accepted students to enroll and deciding on merit scholarships between now and May 1. Since finalizing decisions last Wednesday and mailing decisions last Friday, Admissions has hardly had a moment of relief. Last Friday, Davidson also held 30 interviews for potential Belk scholars. This week, nine of the 30 were selected. Now Admissions has two weeks to prepare for Scholars’ Weekend, when approximately 130 admitted students will be on campus. Some of those will be competing for merit scholarships while some have already been awarded. “The real rub is between now and then,” said Ortmayer. Ortmayer and Vagt hope that current students will help Admissions glean the best possible class of 2008 by counteracting disaffected waitlisted applicants and hosting scholars and accepted students.

Davidson President Bobby Vagt said that he knows Haynes, and of any words he might use to describe him, “important constitutional principles” while referring to him as another of President Bush’s “ideologues.”

Senior Class Gift Update
The Annual Fund thanks you for your participation in the Senior Class Gift. Come celebrate 80% participation with free cold drinks and koozies, Friday, April 23rd, 3:30-5:00 @ Martin Court between Hart and Jamieson (rain location: F 304). If you have not yet given to the Senior Class Gift, log on to www.davidson.edu/giving.