The Davidsonian

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”

First Class
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2004

VOLUME 96, NUMBER 5

Homecoming King and
Queen Collin Setterberg
and Emily Upchurch.

Alums return
to Davidson for
Homecoming

By LYNIE WHITE
Staff Writer

Davidson celebrated a well-received Homecoming this past weekend, successfully bringing together all manner of students present and former.

Last Thursday’s SGA-sponsored Patterson Court bonfire kicked off the weekend’s festivities by honoring all fall sports.

SGA president Katharine Hubbard '05 hoped that this would become a new Davidson tradition.

“I thought the pep rally was a huge success,” she said.

“I think the bonfire helped to make people aware of and excited about Homecoming, and about fall sports in general,”
said Freshman class

see Homecoming, page 4

War in Iraq hits Davidson community close to home

Alumni, faculty share
personal realities
of war in Iraq

By LIZ BARRY
Staff Writer

While his charter plane bound for Iraq refueled in Maine last Thursday, Second Lieutenant Keith Carmack used his free time
to make one last phone call on American soil. Keith’s two-minute conversation with his wife was briefly interrupted when he
heard a friendly voice behind him call out, “Hey, Big Guy!”

“We always call him ‘Big Guy’ because he is big, tall, and athletic,” said Economics Departmental Assistant Barbara Carmack, recounting
her son’s surprise encounter. “When Keith turned around, it was President Bush sending off soldiers. That was a real surprise.”

For Carmack and other members of the Davidson community, the ongoing efforts to restore order and democracy in a war-torn
Iraq are much more than distant struggles in a far-off land. For many, the realities of war have had profound
personal importance.

Keith Carmack
252 Armor Division

Barbara Carmack has worked in the Economics department for 16 years and has been associated with the college for over
30 years.

“I usually do very well,” she said during an interview last Thursday, the same morning her son left for Iraq.
“It’s just times like this when I’m really focused on him leaving, that it

gets very hard.

Last week Keith joined B Company, 252 Armor Division, a U.S. Army unit that has been in Iraq since February.

Although Keith was not told where in Iraq he would be stationed, he told family members prior to departure that
he would be joining ground troops.

“It is disconcerting not knowing where he is,” Carmack said. “But I guess the good part is that if I
knew where he really was, I would be a wreck. Maybe not knowing is better.”

Davidson’s tight-knit community has helped Carmack deal with the emotional stress of sending her son off to war.

“I’ve gotten a lot of support, especially here at work,” Carmack said. “Many of my colleagues know my family very
well, so I’ve gotten a lot of support through the faculty.”

The Office of Support Staff is compiling a box of useful items, ranging from Nutri-Grain bars to magazines, to send
to Keith’s platoon during the Christmas holidays.

Carmack has also set up a collection for Keith’s platoon in the staff lounge.

Carmack usually receives updates from Keith’s wife, Shannon, who Keith contacts directly by phone or e-mail whenever possible.

Shannon lives in Raleigh with their infant son.

“We have a very close family, and that’s the only way you can get through these things,” Carmack said. “We
try to stay strong for him. That’s all we can do.”

Tommy Dugan ’98

U.S. Army Reserve Captain Tommy Dugan ’98 was a Biology major and captain of the football team during his time
at Davidson. He joined ROTC during his freshman year to help pay his way through college.

During the six years after graduation, Dugan served in North Korea, Afghanistan, and Iraq.

see Iraq, page 5

MECCA campaigns for Arabic professor

By ADAM MARTIN
News Editor

Eight hundred eighteen students recently signed a petition in support of hiring a full-time Arabic professor.

The new student organization Middle-Eastern Cross Cultural Association (MECCA) began the “Bring Classroom Arabic to Davidson” campaign soon after its
inception this fall.

The group will present its petition and proposal to Dean of Faculty Clark Ross and President Bobby Vagt and then
SGA next Thursday.

David Jemison, MECCA’s founder and president, said “there is an overwhelming demand for Arabic at Davidson and in a post-September
11 world and the onus is on the academic institutions of the world to meet this demand.”

Thirty-one students also signed a different petition that said they would be “willing to take classroom Arabic here at Davidson
if offered by an Arabic professor.”

A handful of leading liberal arts schools, such as Amherst, Williams, Wellesley, Vassar, and Middlebury, have hired full-time tenure-track Arabic
professors.

President Bobby Vagt showed general support for the idea.

“It is certainly worthy of consideration,” he said.

However, when asked about the reality of bringing an Arabic professor to Davidson in the near future, Vagt said “scarce
resources require you to make choices” and that “you don’t pick courses because of immediate popularity.”

Davidson currently offers Arabic in its Self-Instructional Language Program.

SILP allows only five students to enroll in each of its two Arabic

see MECCA, page 3

PERSPECTIVES, PAGES 10-11

Debate heats
up as election
draws near

Player/fan
altercations:
who’s fault?
SPORTS, PAGE 12
