By Steve KALISKI
Senior Staff Writer

The Coen brothers weren’t born for a large audience. For most of their careers, which began with “Blood Simple” and “Raising Arizona” and which peaked with “Fargo” and “The Big Lebowski,” their visions have been too acutely twisted to appeal to a broad demographic. In fact, legend has it that the idiosyncratic filmmakers accompanied the casting of the endlessly marketable George Clooney in “O Brother, Where Art Thou?” with a warning like, “You may be famous, but don’t screw this up.”

So it’s sadly appropriate that on the same weekend that indie icon Kevin Smith whored himself to the mainstream with “Jersey Girl,” the Coen brothers officially betrayed themselves. Believing that Tom Hanks would be the key to Hollywood gold, they have created a flat, one-note, and thoroughly off-putting parody with “The Ladykillers.” Trying to recapture the deep-fried Southern charm that made “O Brother” such a hit, the Coens have instead manifested something shockingly unimaginative and borderline racist. With Hanks getting as much mileage out of exaggerated eloquence as possible, “The Ladykillers” wears out its welcome long before you understand the meaning of the title.

Irma Hall reprimands Marlon Wayans for not ‘speaking proper’

By Liz BILLET
Senior Staff Writer

“America’s Next Top Model” is a reality television program that manages to both repulse and intoxicate its viewers. Hosted by the unlikely Tyra Banks, bountifully filling time slots on UPN, “America’s Next Top Model” is quite the sleeper hit of cable television. From whence does the glitter come for this diamond in the rough of the rotting reality TV genre? Imagine placing 12 hot girls between the ages of 18 and 25 in a small Manhattan loft. Now make them confident or conceited enough to believe they can make a living off of their hotness. Then dangle a modeling contract and other prizes before their little upturned noses. Promise them success as long as they can deliver a nude or almost nude pose for every episode, all of which aired on the family-friendly time slot of Tuesday at 9 p.m.

The recipe is interesting to those with an understanding of contemporary fashion, those who enjoy ridiculous spectacles, and those who like to see “naked chicks.” Clearly almost no segment of the American population is left unaccounted for in taste, thanks especially to the “ridiculous spectacle” clause. No need for the grotesque formulas of other “reality” television shows—pregnant, poorly edited pauses, overdubbed noises signifying sex and scandal, and alleged twists in “plot” that are so underwhelming, they have actually

As advertised by the film’s shrewdly intriguing previews, “The Ladykillers” pits Hanks’s Professor Goldthwait Higginson Dorr against Irma P. Hall’s sweet old Mrs. Munson. Professor Dorr, a remarkably retro Ph.D. with a mysterious mind to rob a casino riverboat of its bounty, takes shelter in Mrs. Munson’s home, a residence nearly adjacent to the casino’s vault. Masquerading as musicians, Dorr and his “ensemble” of fellow criminals plot their score in Mrs. Munson’s basement. They plan to tunnel through the earthen walls of her cellar without her ever suspecting that they are doing anything more than creating beautiful music.

The ensemble includes some of the most dedicatedly stereotypical caricatures ever conceived: Gawain MacSam (Marlon Wayans), the black janitor and “inside man” for the riverboat; Garth Pancake (J.K. Simmons), an explosives expert with severe irritable bowel syndrome; the General (Tzi Ma), an Asian so hardcore he can swallow a lighted cigarette; and Lump Hudson (Ryan Hurst), a moronic football player who dumbly offers his muscles to the scheme.

From this tantalizingly promising setup, “The Ladykillers” becomes both too much and not enough at the same time. Too much of Hanks’s uber-English contrasting with Wayans’s numbing profanity, and not enough genuine social commentary. Too much attention to Garth Pancake’s IBS and not enough self-awareness from the Coens to realize that fart jokes are way beneath them. In fact, the problem with “The Ladykillers” is that it never becomes more than a really great premise. The Coens recycle the same material over and over, allowing the one token mannerism of each character to reinvent itself in as many ways as possible.

While I don’t take much stock in the often prudish accusations of the presence of racism in mostly innocent movies, the failure of the Coens’ parody here could result in some disturbed audience reactions. Wayans, Hall, and the town’s raucous gospel church each portraySouthern blacks as cartoonish and simple-minded. A scene in which the patronizing Dorr stopped heart attacks. These disgustingly obvious malignancies marring the face of primetime television are unnecessary when one considers the basic and brilliant premise of ANTM. Girls breathe, sleep, and eat their desire to be objectified. Well, some of them don’t eat. As supremely hormonal young women, or overgrown girls, they love each other with ardent passion, and hate each other with rummy malice. The fights are sharp, crisp, and filled with prettily-mouthed curse words, not the booze-induced screaming of other live-in reality shows. Tears flow freely from Episode One, in which no one wakes up Jenascia for the 5 a.m. nude body-paint shoot, all the way to the announcement of the winner. The editing is altogether much less showy, except during elimination time, when Ty-Ty, as she calls herself, demands 10 minutes of close-up on her face as she dramatically announces the loser. Afterwards, all parties elicit touching, choking sobs, or wildly funny grins of glee. This emotional tornado touches down repeatedly in studios, fashion shows, photo shoots, and Milan. The girls must sprint to a makeup table in a race to complete a Sophia Loren look. They must swivel their bony hips madly as they play backup dancers in Ty-Ty’s new music video. They are given five minutes to magically reshape a Hanes Beefy-T into a hip clubbing shirt (under the premise that models don’t have much time to cut up their Beefy-T’s before going clubbing). This was dubbed by Hannah Noll ’04 as the most idiotic challenge in the history of reality television. And yet Hannah watched the show every week. There is a dichotomy inherent to “ANTM,” if such a word can be applied to a television show about modeling on a secondary cable channel. It is the ideal reality show; it takes itself seriously and yet is completely unlike most realities, such as those of “appearance” or “work.” Sometimes I laugh at the self-importance of these pretty girls, of their frustration with menial tasks like enduring a haircut, or posing underwater. But sometimes I think the competition might be rather difficult, particularly considering the privileged lives most of the contestants have led. Their pathos is real, and yet ridiculous. What of the “unreality” of these wannabe models? Their blatant and lustful desire to be recognized only for their sex? Surely it has translated into great entertainment, but what does it mean for them, or for all American women? If it is all to be mocked, then these women are worthless. But if their goals are taken to be legitimate, does this legitimize objectification for everyone else? From inside the industry, I imagine, a model is like a garbage man. Garbage men stink. Models get objectified. After becoming “used to it,” the stink and the objectification go unnoticed. However, garbage men are an essential part of the functioning of our posh nation. Models, most would argue, just aren’t. It’s a good thing the producers stuck “America” in the title. Although Tyra has taken pains to pick a smattering of races, backgrounds, and sizes, all women work through one lens. This is the lens of American fashion, which naturalizes an unbelievable (because uncommon) set of appearances. Of course, “America’s Next Top Model” champions this vision of perfection and beauty. But it also rather deliciously, and often unintentionally, unveils the reality behind the camera. Banks plays host in the latest “reality” show, ‘ANTM.’

WEDNESDAY, March 31, 2004

Marlon Wayans and D.K. Simmons fight dirty in ‘The Ladykillers.’ explains to Mrs. Munson that there are more good books than just the Bible is more offensive than charming. The question then naturally becomes, to fault Tom Hanks or to not fault Tom Hanks? Admittedly, his performance is sickeningly well-studied and executed. With a better showing from the Coen brothers, this may have become his best comic role. However, as the movie launches into its absurd, unwatchably unfunny conclusion, Professor D.H. Dorr’s clever but exhausting language loses the novelty of its appeal. As always, Hanks does his job well, but “The Ladykillers” is that rare example of Hollywood’s most reliable actor signing on to some seriously disastrous material.

The Ladykillers
Directed by: Ethan and Joel Coen
Starring: Tom Hanks, Irma Hall, Marlon Wayans, D.K. Simmons, and Tzi Ma
Running time: 1 hour, 37 minutes
Rated: R