16 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2004

Wildcats rally vs. top seed UNC-G but fall short in finals

By Monica JAMOUNEAU
Staff Writer

Going into the final week of the regular season, the women’s soccer team was tied for first in the Southern Conference standings with UNC-Greensboro, but an 0-2 mark to close the regular season put the Wildcats in a tough position as the No. 5 seed in the Southern Conference tournament. In SoCon history, no fifth-seed had ever advanced to the conference finals. The Wildcats responded emphatically to the challenge, however, beating UT-Chattanooga in the tournament opener and then rallying back from two goals down to beat top-seeded UNC-G in the semifinals. Davidson eventually fell 3-1 to Furman in the SoCon finals, but the runner-up finish was a testament to how far this team has come since not even qualifying for the conference tournament just a year ago. The Wildcats had not reached the SoCon finals since 1999, and they finished head coach Greg Ashton’s first year at the helm with a 12-9-1 record.

Quarterfinals: Chattanooga

On Nov. 4, the ’Cats faced off against Chattanooga, a team that handed Davidson an embarrassing 4-0 home defeat earlier in the year. Determined to turn the tables this time around, the women came out strong. After missing several scoring chances early in the match, leading scorer Kara Koehrn ’06 finally netted the first goal on an assist from Cady Blackey ’06 in the 21st minute. Less than ten minutes later, Jenny Soldano ’06 scored unassisted to give the Wildcats a 2-0 lead they would hold for most of the game. Chattanooga finally got on the board with less than four minutes to play, but Davidson was able to hold on to the one-goal lead and preserve the 2-1 win. Sarah Hobart ’05, named to the First Team All-Southern Conference for her play this year, had three saves in the game.

Semifinals: UNC-Greensboro

In the most amazing show of heart from the Wildcats this year, they came out the next day to upset UNC-G, the regular season conference winners and defending champions of the tournament, after falling behind by two goals. The Spartans had defeated Davidson seven consecutive times until this Saturday. The first half was dominated by a quick-footed UNCG offense, which came out strong and continued to frustrate Davidson en route to two goals in the first 38 minutes of play. Not willing to end the post-season without a fight, the 'Cats roared back following the break. As Hobart said, “We had to use our heart. [Coach Ashton] talked about attitude at halftime, and how that would determine the outcome.” Just minutes into the half, Kara Koehrn sent a ball into the back of the net on an assist from Heidi Wilbrandt ’07. Twenty minutes later, Koehrn once again came through, this time connecting on a corner kick from Anne Stevens ’07 to knot the score at 2-2. The game-winner for the Wildcats was a family affair, as Kara fed the ball to sister Kristen Koehrn ’08, who scored with under five minutes to play to give Davidson a 3-2 lead and prevent the game from going to overtime. “We knew that we would be coming out against a great opponent,” said the elder Koehrn, “but we didn’t hold back in a defensive shape. We came at them with three forwards early in the second half and for the majority of the game. It definitely paid off in the second half with our three hard-fought goals.” Added Hobart, who had five saves in the contest to break the tie.

Men’s Soccer holds on against Eagles

By Brian HELFRICH
Senior Staff Writer

The rollercoaster season continued this week for the men’s soccer team, as they defeated UNC Charlotte and then twice bested Georgia Southern after a late-season two-game losing streak. The Wildcats concluded their regular season with a disappointing, yet respectable, 9-9-1 record, earning the fourth seed in the Southern Conference with their 1-0 victory against Georgia Southern on Sunday. The victory meant Davidson would host the Eagles two days later on Tuesday night at Alumni Stadium in the opening round of the Southern Conference tournament.ference tournament. Charlotte

In a very physical clash with cross-county rival Charlotte, Davidson gave the home team much more than they expected. The ’Cats got on the board first in the 23rd minute when Cass Baltz ’07 beat a defender and ripped a shot from 20 yards out off the post and into the net. Just moments later, Charlotte’s leading scorer Adam Ruud received a red card and the home side had to play a man down for the remaining 66 minutes. Both sides had a few good chances on goal, but Davidson held the 1-0 lead entering halftime. The Wildcats doubled their lead early in the second period when Matt Allen ’06 knocked home a rebound after the 49er goalie dove to save a Mac Wilkie ’07 header. Charlotte capitalized on a penalty kick soon after, halving the Davidson lead, but captain Ben Kittinger ’05 fired right back when he got loose on the right flank and buried the strike for a 3-1 lead. The seesaw battle continued as Charlotte’s explosive offense struck again, narrowing the lead to just one goal. Fortunately, Davidson’s overpowering offensive attack, aided by newly placed forward Robby Hoak ’08, struck again. With less than ten minutes remaining in the match, Aaron West ’08 tallied his second goal of the season off another Wildcat rebound, and Davidson, behind the outstanding play of Bart Creasman ’05 throughout the entire game, held on for a 4-2 win.

Georgia Southern, Part I

Two days later on Sunday, the Wildcats concluded their regular season with an ugly 1-0 home victory over the visiting see Men’s Soccer, page 12

Players, coach rake in postseason and tournament awards

Women’s soccer players Sarah Hobart ’05, Kara Koehrn ’06, and Nancy Haskell ’08 were recently named to the All-Southern Conference teams, and head coach Greg Ashton received Coach of the Year honors in the SoCon.

- Hobart, goalkeeper for the Wildcats, finished her final season with 402 saves, breaking the all-time Davidson record of 399 in her second-to-last career game against UNC-G on Saturday. In her fourth year as a starter, she had already surpassed the record for most career minutes played earlier this year.

- This is the second year in a row that Koehrn has received All-SoCon honors, and in 2001 she was named SoCon Freshman of the Year. She scored two of the three goals this past Saturday in helping the Wildcats advance against top-seeded UNC-Greensboro, and she was credited with the assist on the winning goal by her sister, Kristin Koehrn ’07. Koehrn had four goals overall in the SoCon tournament, and scored 11 on the year.

- In her first year with the Wildcats, Nancy Haskell has achieved All-Southern Conference second team recognition. The 5-2 defender has contributed to the team’s six shutouts and scored a goal and two assists.

Native New Zealander Greg Ashton was honored as Coach of the Year for the 2004 season. It was his first at the head coach position. He led the ’Cats to a 12-9-1 record and a 7-3-1 conference mark, just one year after the Wildcats failed to qualify for the SoCon tournament for the first time in school history. Davidson defeated Georgia Southern twice in three days to advance to SoCon semis.

Player of the Week
Kara Koehrn ‘06
Soccer
Hometown: La Mesa, California
Major: Biology

With four goals in three games, Koehrn’s performance in the SoCon tourney nearly propelled the Wildcats to the NCAA tournament. Against top seed UNC-G in the conference semifinals, she scored two second-half goals against the Spartans to tie the game at 2-2, and then assisted on the game-winner by her younger sister, Kristen ’08.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Kittinger breaks the ice

In Davidson's quarterfinal match-up of the SoCon tournament against Georgia Southern, the Wildcats thoroughly out-played the Eagles in the first half of play as they amassed an 8-1 advantage in shots-on-goal. On the scoreboard, however, both teams were still knotted at 0-0 at the intermission. That changed quickly in the second half of play, however, when David Sartorio '06 fed a long cross into the box in the 47th minute that found senior Ben Kittinger '05, who converted on the opportunity to give Davidson a lead it would not relinquish.