THE DAVIDSONIAN

Madrid, from page 1

right now. Al Qaeda terrorism is another issue altogether, adding the fear of anti-American actions and the possibility of another
attack at any moment.

“If our group were in Spain right now, we would have to be living with that fear, which would seriously
detract from the high spirits that usually accompany travel and, for our group, art,” Pate said.

Dawson expressed a similar attitude.

“It’s hard to pass on a trip to Madrid that was graciously given to all of us, but in the
end it came down to being safe and peace of mind for our class and families,” she said.

In addition to concerns about national security, many students felt that it would be inappropriate and disrespectful to tour Madrid
in its current state.

“To be there and try to carry on with our planned itinerary would force us to ignore the pain that
Spain is suffering right now, and none of us want to be insensitive,” Pate said.

Smith echoed a similar attitude in a statement issued on March 14.

“Thinking about 9/11, most students didn’t want to appear like tourists, going to Madrid to view their sadness, and then
leaving. They felt like it would have been disrespectful,” said Smith.

Currently, Smith is looking into scheduling another trip for the art students to go on this spring.

Ball, from page 1

thousand emotions and reach more people in different ways,” Moore said.

President of Adopt-a-Country AIDS Campaign (ACAC) and member of Warner Hall Judie Kaplan said, “I don’t think any of us
was prouder to be a member of Warner Hall or ACAC. Everyone really pulled together.”

Kaplan, whose father died from AIDS during her childhood, spoke to the group about her experiences and the importance of
AIDS awareness, testing, and research.

Moore said, “I hope the tradition of service will forever be changed because of this event because we all should
act locally, but think globally.”

Metrolina AIDS Project was founded in 1985 by Leslie Kooeyman. The organization provides respite care for infants and toddlers, HIV
testing, and education.

News

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17, 2004

Election bylaws changed

Honor Council candidates may now submit 100-word statement to student body

By Blair McGraw
Senior Staff Writer

Students running for the Honor Council will now be able to submit a short statement for distribution to the student
body, the Student Government Association (SGA) decided at its meeting last Thursday.

The SGA overwhelmingly passed a resolution changing student election bylaws to allow those running for the Honor Council to submit
a personal statement.

SGA President Katharine Hubbard ’05, running her first meeting, told the SGA that “over the years there has been a
lot of debate back and forth” regarding this issue.

The previous SGA bylaws did not allow candidates for the Honor Council, Review Board, Student Conduct Council, Defense Advisor, or
Student Solicitor to “campaign in any manner.”

Now, candidates may submit a 100-word statement to the elections chair, which will then be distributed to the student body.
Candidates, however, may not campaign in any other manner or they will face disqualification.

The SGA decided to alter the bylaws to allow students to be more familiar with the candidates for which they
vote. The resolution said that the previous restrictions made “voting difficult for students who do not know the candidates” and
that “[the short statement will] be beneficial for both candidates and the student body.”

“A lot of times students don’t know who they’re voting for when they vote for honor council,” said Hubbard. Since
the honor council is an “integral part of our school,” in an election that important candidates should have the opportunity
to express why they are running, she added.

Because of the Honor Council’s importance, Walker Saik ’06 suggested sending the statements out a week in advance of the
elections. SGA Vice-President Francois Trappey '06 agreed, saying that such a measure would prevent the statements from being lost among
the numerous other positions.

The next elections for these positions take place the final week this month.

Work in Davidson This Summer

Summer Employment in The Library

The Library is now accepting applications for student summer workers. Positions are available in all departments.

Interested Students should Contact Jean Coates, Library Circulation Office. Ext. 2332
