THE DAVIDSONIAN

Campus Police Blotter

8/28 Belk Dormitory
Suspicious Characters
Officer received a call that there were four young males outside the west side of Belk Dorm who were talking
to female residents of the dorm. The only description given was of a white male with blonde hair and a
green shirt with the number six on the back. The officer searched the area but was unable to locate anyone
fitting the description.

8/28-8/29 Vehicle Damage
Richardson Dormitory
Between 9:35 p.m. on August 28 and 10:35 a.m. on August 29, some unknown person(s) attempted to take a golf
cart locked to the bike rack in front of Richardson Dormitory. The golf cart had two scratches on the front
and a bent bumper, and the bike rack had been dragged about 10 feet. The estimated damage was $500.

8/29 Akers Dormitory
Vehicle Theft/Damage
Between 2 and 10:30 a.m., some unknown person(s) broke the lock attached to a bike rack in front of Akers
Dormitory and took a golf cart. The golf cart was found covered in grass and with damage to the top.
The estimated damage was $500.

8/29 Parking Lot
Theft
Between 9 a.m. on August 24 and 10:15 a.m. on August 29, some unknown person(s) entered a vehicle and took
items. Estimated value of the items is $600.

PC TROUBLESHOOTING:
Virus or Spyware Removal, Maintenance Repairs, and PC Training
Does your PC need maintenance or suffer from infection? Here are some of the symptoms:
* PC seems sluggish, especially online
* Programs, especially e-mail, not functioning properly
* Mouse and keyboard not behaving properly
* Unexplainable shut downs or slow performance
If your PC has been infected, the virus/spyware should be removed before file loss.

News
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2004

Chambers renovation finishes one year early
By SARAH BOGUE
Staff Writer

The renovation of Chambers has been finished a year ahead of schedule, while Belk Dormitory finished on time thanks to
a hardworking team of faculty, architects, engineers, and workers. This wraps up an eight-year series of building projects at Davidson.

The new and improved Chambers will advance Davidson’s learning capabilities. With immaculate bathrooms, beautiful walls, and ample space, Chambers is
far more aesthetically pleasing than the somewhat dark building of years past. Rooms now have amazing technological capabilities, allowing professors
freedom to teach with PowerPoint, the Internet, or any sort of audio-visual apparatus.

David Sheibley ’07 said, “It’s really cool how the building still looks old on the outside, but has such a
new look on the inside.”

The venture was no easy task to fund. Costing a whopping $21 million and requiring approximately 300 workers, this project
would not have been possible without the “Let Learning Be Cherished” Capital Fund. This campaign, which spanned five years, will
provide $250 million to support the various building projects on campus.

Many students are enjoying Chambers’s new look. Andrea Applebee ’06 said, “Chambers is classy and it smells like newness, and,
even though it feels more corporate, elite, and institutionalized, I am grateful to the immense funds that have made it
a modern sort of lovely.”

Chambers is not the only building on campus that has a brand new look. Incoming freshmen and upperclassmen alike marveled
at the new interior of Belk Dormitory. A new plumbing and electrical system, and a faint smell of fresh paint
greeted Belk’s newest residents. Director of Residence Life and Associate Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano oversaw the renovation, which cost
the college $5 million.college $4.5 million dollars and followed those of Little and Martin Court. Former Belk resident Ryan Creighan
’07 said, “It just doesn’t seem fair. Last year I couldn’t wait to get out of Belk and now it’s
practically a hotel. I wish I had never left.” Director of Physical Plant Facilities David Holthouser said, “Originally, Belk was
scheduled to happen over two summers because of the magnitude. But a decision was made to squeeze all of Belk
into one summer.” In just 88 days and with virtually no hassle for the students, Belk was transformed.

The renovation of Chambers was no different. In the initial plan, each of the four phases of the transformation was
to take a whole academic year and would be completed in August of 2005. Many faculty members were required to
move their offices several times during the construction. Landscaping behind Chambers replaces a former construction zone.

Council, from page 1

“100 percent of the organization is the same as the websites,” he said. After the questioning by Dr. Thomas concluded,
Powell testified in his own defense. Powell admitted to using the websites that Dr. Thomas had found but stated that
he had simply memorized what the sites had said rather than copied the information directly from them during the test.
He described how after doing poorly on the previous tests in that class, and after finding that the texts for
the class did not provide all the information he felt Dr. Thomas wanted, Powell decided the only way to study
for the final exam was to “study the websites and memorize them.”

Powell’s mother and best friend also testified on his behalf. Both said that Powell had talked to them about how
he planned to study and memorize websites to prepare for his exam. Powell’s friend also stated that he helped him
study and saw how prepared Powell was for the exam. “By the end he could use the same language,” he
said.

Finally, Dr. Ed Palmer testified as a character witness for Powell. Dr. Palmer said Powell had rented an apartment from
him last year and he saw that Powell had “a deep respect for honor and the military.” After seven hours
of deliberation, the Honor Council rendered their guilty verdict. This trial was significant for being the first Honor Council trial
since the fall of 2002 in which the defendant chose to open the proceedings to Davidson’s entire student body. Most
Honor Council trials are closed, leaving many students unaware of exactly how the trials are conducted.

Chris Knowles ’05, Chair of the Honor Council, said of the trial, “I hope that it gives the student body
an appreciation for the hard work that the Honor Council puts into each case.” For at least some students, the
trial seems to have done just that. Craig Carlson ’08 said after the trial, “I was surprised that the Honor
Council had actual real power. I had thought that the Honor Council would just watch the faculty make a decision
and then put their rubber stamp on their decision. It was great to see the proceedings completely student-run.” Yet watching
the trial also made some students call into question just how fair a trial Powell received. “It seems that Powell
had to prove his innocence instead of the professor having to prove his guilt,” said Carlson, “it just seemed that
by the time Powell spoke most people made up their minds that he was indeed guilty, and did not even
listen to him.”
