8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

TODAY'S NEWS

Shorts worn
SEE PAGE 8

Cheerwine:
Why are we
drinking
this?
SEE PAGE 10

Horn player
blows

Patient on
death’s door;
Health Center
pulls him
through

Student really
wishing toilet
had manual
flush
SEE PAGE 26

PHOTO OF THE WEEK

Humor Section

March 24, 2004

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24, 2004

The Davidsonian

Prospective wondering why there aren’t
as many minority students as on Website

‘Oh, I’m sure
they’re sleeping’
says tour guide

GREY HOUSE—Visiting high school senior Michelle Dylan thought Davidson was everything she’d always imagined as she crossed campus on the
1:30 tour this Monday: tall trees, red bricks, abundant SUVs. And yet, something was missing. There were so many minority
students on the college website—where were they now?

Her query is not a new one. Throughout the past year, an increasing number of prospective students and their parents
have been expressing sentiments of confusion over Davidson’s outward portrayal of diversity.

Fortunately, admissions officials couldn’t be less concerned. “Here at Davidson we have a remarkably diverse student body, with literally dozens
of non-white students,” said Howard Brooks, special director of diversity recruitment in the admissions office. “Now the whole world can
finally see the true reality of Davidson’s commitment to diversity. We don’t just have heart—we’ve got soul.”

Submit your best caption

What's going on here? Submit your best caption of this YOWL documented event and we'll run it in next week’s
paper. Send all entries to COEAGAN.

ATOMS:

The college homepage, located online at www.davidson.edu, was outfitted last semester with a new database of randomly-loading photos highlighting Davidson’s
diverse student body. While previous photos featured only token minorities amidst a sea of white students, the current images feature
a minority-to-Caucasian ratio grossly disproportionate to the actual racial distribution on campus.

“This is truly a step in the right direction,” Brooks continued while hitting the homepage ‘refresh’ button a whole bunch
of times on his computer screen. “We still have some room to improve in terms of minority enrollment, but these
new photos confirm just how seriously we take diversity here at Davidson.”

The photos were uploaded onto the site by Marty Bohner, a recently employed web designer in the College Communications office,
who comes to Davidson with experience at Gettysburg College and the University of Vermont.

“It’s great to work among such an incredibly diverse student body,” Bohner commented. “When I was at UVM we had
to digitally add minorities to our publication graphics with Adobe Photoshop. It’s just so much more convenient when you have
real, living non-white students to work with.” Bohner went on to explain that, despite some rumor to the contrary, all
non-white students on Davidson’s webpage were in fact photographed on Davidson’s campus at one time or another. “These were all
real photos printed on actual paper and scanned with an actual scanner,” he said.

In appreciation of the diversity they bring to campus, Brooks and his admissions staff have pledged their dedication to minority
students here at Davidson. Minorities have enjoyed an array of special privileges, such as a specialized freshman orientation process, frequent
inclusion in college brochures, and numerous appointments to panels for visiting high-schoolers.

In further appreciation, the admissions office hosted a diversity picnic this Saturday, which was filmed for use in a new
video for prospective students. Among the students invited was Devon James ’04, who was even permitted by admissions officials to
bring a few guests. “Mr. Brooks was really excited about meeting my roommates, so I felt sort of bad when
I had to tell him they were away for the weekend,” said James. “But he was really understanding, and said
I could just bring some of my friends from the BSC. Although that’s odd, because I’m not even in the
BSC.”

The picnic, described by the admissions department as a “dazzling multi-hued success,” was a true showcase of diversity at Davidson.
Brooks also took the opportunity to point out, however, that “diversity comes in forms other than skin color.”

“I saw one guy who was at least 6’5” there tonight,” Brooks exclaimed following the event. “You should have seen
it, he was standing next to this girl who must have been under 5 feet tall. I just chuckled to
myself and thought, ‘If that isn’t diversity personified, then I don’t know what is.’”

Despite Davidson’s strong commitment to diversity, admissions officials assure students that the campus still boasts plenty of non-minorities, also known
as ‘white guys.’ In fact, white guys can be seen just about anywhere on campus grounds, where they engage in
any number of white guy activities, be it throwing Frisbees, walking entirely too quickly to class, or playing mediocre Dave
Matthews on acoustic guitars.

“Davidson certainly has the best of both worlds,” commented Lauren Field-

See DIVERSITY, page 9

BRIEFLY
