THE DAVIDSONIAN | News | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17, 2004

Administration cites liability issues, national trends for no-keg policy

By DAVIDSONIAN STAFF
* Joint Staff Contribution

In the early 1990s, kegs were a popular addition to campus parties. Not only were the kegs allowed, but they
were not restricted to concealment in the basement. They were permitted upstairs and even on the porches of Patterson Court
houses during parties.

In 1992, the administration changed the college policy by requiring kegs to be kept in the basement of houses to
prevent underage drinking. The next year a new policy prohibited students from carrying up more than two cups at one
time.

Finally, in 1996, the college adopted a no-keg policy, completely eliminating the oversized beer barrels from the Davidson social scene.
At the time, the change was not a matter of great controversy.

“We were given a real awareness of the liability factors related to kegs, and it didn’t disturb the party scene
on the court,” said David Wick ’97, Kappa Sigma president and member of the Patterson Court Council during the policy
implementation. “The college administration educated students about the liability and safety factors related to kegs and worked with us to
ensure a smooth transition. It really didn’t disturb the party scene on the court.”

“These organizations have chosen to do this because of the large number of alcohol-related injuries and deaths that were resulting
from over-consumption when party guests were served from kegs or other bulk-quantity, common-source containers,” said Patterson Court Adviser Joy Hamm.

Hamm stressed that kegs increase liability risks. “Kegs place a tremendous amount of liability on the individual organization. Serving from
a keg can be more difficult for organizations to manage, and in some cases can lead to heavier alcohol consumption,”
Hamm said.

Addressing the liability issue, former PCC President Greg Stewart ’05 said, “At registered parties, we fill up a 12 oz.
cup with beer from a can. How is filling that same 12 oz. cup up with beer from a keg
any different? While the school has argued that people can’t count drinks when it is coming from a keg, when
it comes to a registered party you would receive beer in the same way.”

Stewart also noted that purchasing the same amount of beer through kegs would be cheaper for Patterson Court houses than
buying cases of cans. While administrators claim kegs lead to dangerous levels of drinking, there is

---

What does PROSPERITY mean... if the government can no longer ensure it?
What does security mean... if the threats disregard national borders?
What does SOVEREIGNTY mean... when the challenges require global solutions?

The 2004 Bank of America Conference
NATIONAL INTERESTS/GLOBAL CHALLENGES: PROSPERITY, SECURITY AND SOVEREIGNTY IN THE 21ST CENTURY
MARCH 28-31, 2004

For a full schedule of events, visit www.davidson.edu/international or call the Dean Rusk Program at 704-894-2440.

---

Long a non-issue, some now long for kegs on Court.Concern that it has only pushed alcohol consumption off-campus and out
of sight. Several students contacted by the Davidsonian declined to comment on the record but admitted to attending off-campus parties
and, in some cases, on-campus dorm room parties where kegs were present. One student who would go on record, Sean
Wentworth ’05, said he, too, had attended off-campus parties where kegs had been present on several occasions. “Some of these
places were beyond what some people were willing to walk to,” implying students might drive to and from these parties.
Wentworth said he did not know of any drunk driving that occurred, but he added, “it’s not a stretch to
imagine,” Wentworth said.

Yet the no-kegs policy is hardly a restriction unique to Davidson. Both Dean of Students Tom Shandley and Director of
Residence Life Leslie Marsicano emphasized that most colleges and universities do not allow kegs for the same reasons. “Kegs were
prohibited eight years ago as a result of the institutional self-study of all aspects of student life,” said Shandley. “Not
only are they banned by national fraternities, but the reason that common containers are prohibited is because there is substantial
evidence that it increases dangerous drinking.”

Despite these assurances and the smooth transition at the time, not all Davidson students are convinced of this wisdom. Some
students speculated that image, as much as legal liability, influenced the college’s decision. “Davidson does not want to permit kegs
because of the stigma that accompanies the ‘college keg’ party. I fail to see the difference between six cases of
beer and one keg, with the exception of less aluminum waste and an easier clean-up for all involved,” said Catie
Williams ’04. Other students are more radical, claiming the liability issue is just a cover for a larger anti-alcohol campaign
at Davidson. “I am always skeptical when an individual or institution outlaws an item or activity because of ‘liability,’” said
Roland Foss ’05, an independent. “You have to wonder if Davidson has another motive here. We’ve got the ban on
kegs and open containers, and the relegation of liquor to the basement. Now we’ve got the smoking ban and the
17% campaign. What is the college trying to do here?”

While such claims are only opinion, buttressed with circumstantial evidence, it is a view shared by many a reveler on
and off the Court. Concern about the no-kegs policy has also come from an unlikely source — the Environmental Action
Coalition (EAC). “A typical party produces about 60 to 70 gallons of aluminum waste, plus the cardboard used in the
case boxes. Multiply that by the number of parties each week on the court, and you get an unnecessary amount
of waste and work. One keg is the equivalent of 70 cans of beer. A reusable keg would eliminate a
very large percentage of court-generated waste,” said Carlson.

On the green issue, President Vagt said, “It’s one thing to say we need to recycle... but I am reluctant
to say that the reason we should allow kegs is to improve recycling. There has got to be a better
way to solve the problem.” Waste generated by cans is an issue already being addressed by the administration. Recently, PCC
has worked with the EAC to add a recycling component to the set of standards that all Patterson Court houses
must meet.
