Che Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2004

First Class U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC

VOLUME 96, NUMBER 10

School increases job opportunities with SLAC

By Carey Baxter
Staff Writer

Many Davidson seniors do not perceive Career Services as very helpful in finding jobs outside of the traditional medical, law, and banking sectors. “I don’t think my friends utilize the services because they aren’t seeking typical jobs,” said Brian Creech ’04.

In order to expand its employer base, Davidson joined the Selective Liberal Arts Consortium (SLAC) this year, creating new job interview opportunities for Davidson seniors. Director of Career Services John Adams said Davidson joined SLAC “to make ourselves more present to a broader range of employers.”

SLAC is comprised of 12 small liberal arts colleges ranked in the U.S. News and World Report “Top 50 Best National Liberal Arts Colleges.” Each year SLAC hosts pre-arranged interview days in five major U.S. cities: Boston, Chicago, New York City, Philadelphia, and Washington D.C.

Out of the 26 companies participating in the interview day in Washington, only three have previously come to Davidson for on-campus interviews. By gathering together in a convenient location, the small liberal arts colleges that make up SLAC are able to open themselves up to more employers than would usually trek to their disparate locations to seek out students.

About 30 Davidson students applied online this October for interviews with SLAC corporations, government employers, and/or nonprofit organizations. Those students selected for interviews will travel to one of the five cities in December or January to meet with representatives of different organizations.

Because this is Davidson’s first year as a SLAC member, Davidson students are only invited to participate in the day of interviews in Washington D.C. Davidson must earn its way into the other four cities by attracting new companies to the list of participating companies in each city. Davidson hopes to add one or more cities next year, said Adams.

The problem, said Kate McVane ’04 who interns at Career Services, is that many students are so busy that they don’t make time to utilize these resources. Dan Coslett ’04, majoring in Classics and Political Science, said “[Career Services’] resume workshops and specialized career panels are pretty good but they should be clearer about how much they help with the grad...

see SLAC, page 4

Photo by Matt

Communication between the Patterson Court Council and Campus Safety is hoped to make parties safer.

Patterson Court, police seek to improve relations

By Liz Barry
Senior Staff Writer

Recent concerns about the relationship between students and police officers on Patterson Court have prompted efforts to open the lines of communication and seek a common ground. Student concerns stem from inconsistent enforcement of PCC policies, the presence of town police at campus parties and a general lack of communication between Campus Safety and the leaders of Patterson Court Organizations, said Weston Waxweiler ’05, president of Patterson Court Council.

Several PCC representatives met with Chief of Police Fountain Walker, Dean of Students Tom Shandley and Patterson Court Advisor Joy Hamm this afternoon to discuss tensions between students and campus safety officers. Lack of communication between the PCC leaders and campus safety is the main cause of the strained relationship between students and officers, Warner Hall president Rachel Voyles ’05 said.

“I think all too often negative feelings result when students are unsure of police officers’ intentions and when police officers are unsure of the level of respect...students have for them,” Voyles said. 

See Police, page 5

Summit forced to close for renovation

A sign on the front of Summit informs customers that the shop will reopen Friday.

“The Incredibles” unincredible

A&L, PAGE 6

By ZACH WILLIAMS
Managing Editor

For those who include a trip to Davidson’s Summit coffeehouse in their daily routine, the temporary closing of Summit this week is an unexpected shock. Since its inception as Davidson’s very own coffee shop six years ago, Summit has become a main street staple and never closed its doors during regular store hours with the exception of yearly holidays. However, repeated water damage forced management to close the store for four days this week in order to primarily replace floor tiling.

Besides serving coffee, Summit is best known for its quaint atmosphere and cozy store interior. Much of Summit’s uniqueness comes from the 100-year-old building it is housed in. The building’s old age, while affording many aesthetic benefits for management, employees, and customers, has also contributed to consistent water damage. During rainy days, customers would have been unsurprised to find towels strewn across the floor in order to keep the coffee shop from becoming an indoor swamp.

Although re-tiling the floor is the major reason for closing down the shop this week, management decided to renovate other parts of the store at the same time. Among these projects include painting the bottom parts of the walls a rich, dark green while painting the upper walls a more grayish green color. While a contractor has been hired, see Summit, page 5

Four nominated for Watson

By Don WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

Davidson has named its four nominees for the 2005 Thomas J. Watson Fellowship. Amanda Green ’05, William Haas ’05, Kristy Marynak ’05, and Ben Nelson ’05 have submitted formal proposals to the Thomas J. Watson Foundation after having been selected by the Dean of Students Office to compete for some of the 50 fellowships offered to students at 50 private institutions nationwide.

Watson Fellowships provide graduating college seniors with a one-year grant for independent study and travel abroad. According to a description by the Career Services web page on graduate fellowships, “Students have an opportunity for a focused and disciplined Wandarjahr of their own devising - time in which to explore with thoroughness a particular interest, test their aspirations and abilities, view their lives and American society in greater perspective and, concomitantly, to develop a more informed sense of international concern.” The Watson Fellowship provides a grant of $22,000 to make this experience possible.

The nominees were chosen after an application process that included submission of a three-page proposal and a personal statement, a list of extracurricular activities, two faculty recommendations, and a series of interviews. 

Green’s proposal is titled “Language Revitalization: Preserving Unique Forms of Human Expression.” Haas submitted “The International Scouting Movement: Fusing Culture and Developing Youth.” Marynak’s topic is “Sounding Together: Dynamics and Demographics of Youth Symphonies in Chile, Dominican Republic, India, and South Africa.” Nelson has chosen “Stringing Together My Tradition.”

Green is seeking to travel to Russia, China, and Namibia to live in communities that have programs aimed at preventing the loss of local languages and preserving oral history. Green will work with these programs, enrolling in classes and working with local language activists. See Watson, page 4

SEE PAGE 4 INSIDE THIS WEEK

NEWS: RFK Jr. to speak on environment

People take class participation too seriously

PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 10

Our Davidson Basketball Preview

SPORTS, PAGE 14