THE DAVIDSONIAN

The election is over. Some of us won; some of us lost. Regardless, it is time to move on. For once in my life, I find myself agreeing with the President. It is time for a reconciliation of the American people. Regardless of who is our Commander-in-Chief, the country must come together.

If America re-elected
By HALLEY AELION
Staff Columnist

When I hear that “moral values” were what got our President into office, my stomach drops. When I hear what those “moral values” were, it drops even a little lower. America’s decision in 2004 is a clear sign this country’s citizens are not only confused about what constitutes a good leader, but also that the morals we value are outdated and embarrassingly backwards.

Let’s pretend, at first, that Bush’s moral values are exactly what they ought to be. I know it’s a stretch. Even then, even if George W. Bush was Saint Teresa incarnate, it still would not validate the fact we, as a country, voted him President of the United States. There is a difference between a role model and a leader. This is something so basic, yet it is constantly blurred in America’s society, where everyone’s personal life is public business.

A role model’s job is to exhibit good moral values. These values include providing first and foremost for their family, living life by their chosen religion, and leading a balanced existence of work, leisure, faith, and family. A role model would do anything to prevent his or her son from going off to war in order to ensure the safety and survival of their family. A leader, on the other hand, has a different job. A leader must guide the country, no matter what the cost. A leader puts the country first, lives his life by the laws of the land, and makes decisions based on what is best for the nation as a whole.

PERSPECTIVES
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2004

Tomfoolery, rubbish, and overall silliness
By SAM SPENCER
Staff Columnist

A lot of things have been on my mind lately. I’ve been troubled by the reluctance of some of my peers in SGA to adequately fund our fledgling club baseball program. I’ve felt the pressure of numerous assignments in my physics class, and endless demands from various organizations on campus. I feel spread thin, like too little butter over too much toast. And don’t even get me started on the election; every time I see Joey Suits, a rancorous look comes over my face.

We are living in troubling times. We have so much freedom, and yet it would still be very easy for a group of terrorists to affect our country again. There is a war abroad in which people are dying. I have friends who are being legislated against for something that they can’t help—an identity that they are proud of. And for some reason, reality TV and Clear Channel are taking an even firmer grasp of our media.

But there is something—someone—who gives me hope. Comfort. Strength. The ability to persist in the face of Vegas odds and Richard Branson-esque challenges. The assurance, more so than any Captain Picard tire commercial, that I belong on this Earth as a human being with a purpose. This someone is Nich Carlson.

I first saw Cap’n Carl, as we call him at the Davidsonian, [no we don't -ed.] when I was visiting Davidson College during my junior year. I went into Summit Coffee and saw this Adonis of a man, with golden blonde hair and a face that launched a thousand word processing programs. He was dressed in a stunning casual coat ensemble that may have been stolen from that season’s GQ—or maybe he got a sneak peek at the next one.

My infatuation with this frisky Floridian didn’t end there. [ed. has a girlfriend -ed.] When I was a naive, vulnerable freshman, Nich took me under his wing, and got me a ride home from a Radiohead concert. [Zach Williams claims he was driving -ed.] Such great taste in music is by itself a cause for admiration, but later that year, as Nich and I reminisced about our Radiohead experience under the night sky on the back porch of Rusk, I tried to look up at the beautiful night sky, but I couldn't take my eyes off Nich. Maybe it was the lemon drop shots in my system from Rusk’s around the world... but something in Nich’s eyes spoke to me that night. [Were they saying, “Sam, you're making me uncomfortable”? -ed.]

This year, Nich has been a mentor, and a friend. He is like my Rabbi, a wise elder whose editorial chopping is like a magnificent journalistic bris, chopping the extraneous parts of my stories down to the candid meat that editorial writing is all about. [shalom -ed.] He has been there for me. And I think if everyone could have a little Nich in their lives, we could forget about all of the pain in the world and sit at the table of brotherhood once again.

Hypocrisy reigns in right’s gender politics
By JOE REED
Staff Columnist

In the third presidential debate, the candidates were asked if they believed homosexuality was a choice. To this question, Senator John Kerry gave an answer that, inexplicably, was seen by many on the right as stunningly offensive. After noting that “we’re all God’s children,” Senator Kerry pointed out that “if you were to talk to Dick Cheney’s daughter, who is a lesbian, she would tell you that she’s being... who she was born as.” The Vice President’s wife, Lynne Cheney, went particularly apoplectic over this statement, calling it a “cheap and tawdry political trick” which revealed the senator as “not a good man.”Outrage on the part of many Republicans, given both the context of Senator Kerry’s remark and the fact that Mary Cheney’s sexual orientation was not exactly a state secret prior to the debate, seemed a bit excessive even at the time. However, given recent statements by certain anti-gay groups, that outrage now seems downright absurd. Joe Glover, president of the ultraconservative Family Policy Network, seeing Mary Cheney and her partner on the stage with her father and the Bush family at a victory rally, expressed outrage that the administration would show such disrespect to the Christian conservatives whose high turnout was so crucial to the president’s re-election. Glover was furious that President Bush, after receiving such political help from the religious right, would “allow his vice president to not only put his lesbian daughter on the platform, but to bring her lesbian ‘partner’ up on the stage with him.” The suggestion that it was wrong for the vice president’s daughter to be allowed to enjoy such an important moment with her father would seem to be an infinitely more offensive attack on Mary Cheney than Senator Kerry’s statement during the debate. Where, then, is the Republican outrage at Glover’s remarks? Where are the right-wing bloggers condemning such a blatant attack on the family of the vice-president? Perhaps most of all, where are the angry Cheney parents who appeared after the third debate to condemn Senator Kerry’s statements about their daughter? As of this writing, no high-profile Republicans have stepped forward to condemn Glover’s statements, and even if some do in the future, it will have taken about a week to find the same anger that came out about five minutes after the debate. When John Kerry mentioned, in passing and in the context of an argument that homosexuality is a choice, that Dick Cheney’s daughter is a lesbian, Republicans appeared absolutely furious. When Joe Glover argued that Mary Cheney should not be allowed to appear in public with her loved ones and her father, those same Republicans have kept largely silent. Unless Republicans, in particular the Cheney family, say something to condemn Glover’s outrageous remarks, one will be forced to conclude that their outrage at Senator Kerry’s statement was no more than, well, a cheap and tawdry political trick.

President Bush on moral values, for shame. How can you honestly call a man compassionate when his domestic policies have cut back funding for after-school programs in lower-class neighborhoods? And furthermore, how can you honestly claim Bush is honest? I have only to look at the most prevalent event in American news for the past year, the war in Iraq, to see a plethora of Bush’s lies and deceit. The man claimed, “Saddam Hussein had the materials to produce as much as 500 tons of sarin, mustard, and VX nerve agent” during the State of the Union Address last year. There have been NO, absolutely zero, chemical weapons found in Iraq. The man lied! This deliberate lie to an entire nation proves a lot about Bush’s character. It also shows the lack of respect Bush holds for the intelligence of the citizens of his country. But maybe this is where I can almost agree with the President. If this election is a reflection on America’s moral values, frankly, I’m a little embarrassed, and I can see why we, as citizens, don’t get the respect we may think we deserve. I can’t decide whether I should be more worried about the blurry line America has drawn between role models and leaders or about the moral values the country has elected into office. And I know I’m not the only one. The rest of the world is embarrassed for us, too. Every country that disagreed with Bush’s policies during his first term (quite a few, if you’re wondering) saw America as a good country with a bad president. Now they see a country of stupid people who have elected one of their own kind. I can only hope the next four years pass quickly.