THE DavidsonIAN SPORTS - WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2004

Wildcat defense unable to ’Cats edge past Spiders in last set, ready for conference

By: Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

In a battle between two teams who have traditionally played each other very closely, men’s tennis hosted the Richmond Spiders
Friday at the Covington Courts. The Wildcats’ first outdoor action of the season proved to be yet another tight match
against Richmond, in fact the third straight match between the two teams decided by a 4-3 score. After losing heartbreakers
to the Spiders the past two years, Davidson emerged victorious last weekend behind the strength of two crucial three-set singles
wins, improving their record to 5-2.

Entering the match, the Davidson coaches anticipated a battle that could turn ugly, as the conditions were not conducive to
outstanding tennis. Not only had the Wildcats only practiced outdoors twice prior to the match, the wind was gusting and
wreaking havoc all over the courts. Even so, head coach Jeff Frank always expected that the 'Cats would have a
chance to win.

Davidson got the match off to a great start in the doubles matches. Bryan Stonestreet ’04 and Russ Burns ’05
cruised to an 8-3 win at the third position, while Rob Haywood ’04 and Donald Miles ’05 also were victorious
at number one with an 8-5 win. With the doubles point already in hand, the Wildcats narrowly missed a sweep
of the doubles matches when Jonathan Britt ’04 and Rob Gould ’04 lost an early lead to fall 8-6 at
number two, only their second loss together so far this season.

Davidson’s 1-0 lead rapidly became a 2-0 lead after Miles dominated his opponent at the number two singles position. Miles
lost only one game against a very solid opponent, controlling the match from start to finish for a 6-1, 6-0
victory. “Donald played great,” remarked Frank. “He played against a guy who could have been a pretty good player, but
Donald just never let him [get into the match].”

The Spiders did not stay down for long, fighting back to level the match at 2-2 with victories at the
one and four slots. Haywood, despite not having fully recovered from recent injuries, attempted to play at the top position,
though he was clearly not at full strength and lacked sharpness due to his recent layoff. As a result, he
lost a tight match 6-4, 7-5. The Spiders win at number four came at the expense of Britt, who fought
hard against Richmond’s scrappy player but ultimately lost 6-4, 6-4.

With the match knotted at 2-2, three matches remained on the court, and all three would stretch to three sets.
Burns bounced back after losing the second set of his match at number five to easily close out the victory
in the third set by a 6-4, 2-6, 6-0 score. Porus Jetli ’07, perhaps bothered more than any other Wildcat
by the windy conditions due to his style of play, lost a tough three-setter at number six. After winning the
first set, Jetli could not maintain his momentum, falling 2-6, 6-3, 6-2 to again even the overall match at 3-3.

The Wildcats did not have to wait long for the resolution of the back and forth match, as moments later
on court three Stonestreet closed out his opponent for a 5-7, 6-1, 6-2 victory. Frank called Stonestreet’s match “a good
match for him” in which he started to return to the style of play that earned him a 14-8 record
last year, tied for the most victories on the team. Pleased with the win, Frank labeled the match “a pretty
good indicator for us.”

An even bigger indicator looms on the horizon, as the Wildcats travel to Charleston this weekend to open conference play
against College of Charleston and The Citadel, two teams that defeated the ’Cats last season. The biggest concern for Davidson
at this point is injuries, as multiple players have been plagued by nagging injuries. Picked by a preseason poll of
SoCon coaches to finish seventh in the conference, the men are in a prime position to pull some upsets as
an underdog as long as they can get healthy in time for the grind of the conference season. “The difference
last year between a great season and the season we ended up with was these 4-3 matches,” observed Frank. If
the Wildcats can continue to pull out these 4-3 matches, this year could be that great season.

1,000 meter school record broken on unusual track

Running on an ‘oddly octagonal’ track, Greg Scott ’04 finished in 2:30.6

By AUSTIN MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

As a final preparation for the upcoming Southern Conference Championships, the men’s Track and Field team took a small contingent
to Appalachian State to race on their oddly octagonal 300-meter indoor track. The meet proved worthwhile when several Wildcats ran
seasonal bests, including one schoolRecord. In the sprint events, Davidson runners displayed their hard work with great efforts in all
races. Andrew Pratt ’04 led the Wildcats in the 55-meter race with a time of 6.55 seconds. In the 200,
David Ritchie ’07 was once again impressive as he powered around the track in a time of 23.40 seconds, the
best of the day for Davidson. Cisco Morales ’07 led the squad in the 400, as he crossed the line
in 53.7 seconds. The middle distance crew had a great day, setting one new school record and barely missing a
second record. Greg Scott ’04 set a new school record in the 1,000-meter run. He ran 2:30.6 for the seldom-run
race, and he looks fit and ready for more competition at the conference championships this weekend. Douglas Noreen ’07 showed
a glimpse of his potential as he sped to a 1:56.6 in the 800-meter race. Noreen missed setting the school
record by three hundredths of a second, and the race was a great improvement on his other races this season.
The distance squad that traveled to the meet all ran in the 3,000-meter race. Jonathan Baker ’06 was the first
harrier to finish, as he crossed the line in 9:18.0. John Doehring ’07 had a blistering last lap, as he
finished right behind Baker with a time of 9:20.5. Head coach Gary Andrew was pleased with the results from the
meet and looks forward to competing at the Southern Conference Indoor Championships this Saturday in Johnson City, Tennessee. “We went
into this meet viewing it as a tune-up for the conference championships next weekend, and it served its purpose,” Andrews
said. “We’re expecting many outstanding performances from our athletes next weekend.”

Contain Northwestern in loss
By KATHERINE SWAIN
Staff Writer

The lacrosse team lost to American Lacrosse Conference rival Northwestern last Friday afternoon on the turf before a crowd of
over 100 fans. The ’Cats fell to NU by a final score of 25-6. Northwestern notched the first two goals
in the half, but Millie McKeachie ’05 scored off a beautiful feed from Lindsay Frank ’05 to make the score
2-1 only five minutes into the contest. NU scored again to extend their lead to two goals, but Frank answered
back with her first goal of the game, scoring within the first seven minutes of the half. Eloise Grose ’06
then scored off a free-position shot to put Davidson within one goal at 4-3 with 19 minutes left in the
half. That would be as near as the ’Cats would come to the Northwestern Wildcats. NU then scored nine unanswered
goals, with Abby Mead ’06 tallying a goal to break their spree with 3:30 remaining in the first half. The
second half started with Northwestern scoring another four straight goals, extending their lead to 17-4. Frank’s second goal of the
game was the last mark on the Davidson side of the board for the day. Missy Gilbert ’06 added one
goal and one assist against NU, giving her a team-leading five total points for the season. Goaltender Becca Nussbaum ’04
tallied 14 saves, playing despite a thumb injury. Captain Lauren Williams ’04 commented on the ’Cats’ performance, saying, “Our attack
played well, moving the ball effectively. Our defense needs work. We need to get back quicker and communicate more. It’s
the beginning of the season, so as we get more comfortable on the field that should definitely improve.” The Wildcat
defense is young and has many new players, returning only two starters in the midfield from last season. The settled
defensive play around the eight-meter struggles, because the defense, as a unit, lacks the experience between players that only playing
in more game-like situations can improve. Time of possession plagued the ’Cats, with NU dominating the draws and retaining the
ball on their attacking end much more than Davidson. The settled defense was fairly strong, but the transition killed the
’Cats, with Northwestern scoring most of their goals in a “run and gun” fashion. The Wildcats face their next opponent
this Friday, playing Johns Hopkins (ALC) at 4 p.m. on the Carol G. Belk Turf field. Hopkins is their last
home game for a week, with the ’Cats traveling to Connecticut immediately following the game to play three games over
Spring Break.

Senior Class Gift Update
Congratulations, Seniors! The Senior Class Gift has reached 78.2% PAID participation. LET’S HAVE ANOTHER RECORD-BREAKING YEAR, SURPASSING THE CLASS OF
2003’S PARTICIPATION OF 84%. To pay your pledge online, visit The Annual Fund website at www.davidson.edu/giving or mail check or
cash to The Annual Fund, Box 7170. Please contact Maria Tardugno (x2113) with questions. Have a fabulous Spring Break!

Photo by Peter Read
Missy Gilbert ’06 has a team-best five total points on the season.
