JANUARY 21, 2003

PAGE 3

SATELLITE PARKING LOT—A conversation immediately preceding the Wednesday night hookup of sophomores Dave Stern and Lisa Campbell failed to address any topic outside of the pair’s former, flawed love interests. The two, who had never hooked up with each other before, engaged in the conversation following a trip to exit 36 to purchase items for a class project.

“It was one of those talks where you really feel like you get to know someone,” commented Stern, a biology major and resident of first Cannon. “I really didn’t know Lisa before, but man, by the end of the night I felt like we’d been dating for years. Or at least a long weekend.”

The hookup-inducing conversation began towards the end of the pair’s car ride to Mooresville’s Super Target to purchase two funny hats for a Theater 101 skit they performed last Friday. Stern also took the opportunity to buy a bottle of hand cream and a box of Total. While driving back to Davidson in Stern’s '98 Honda Accord, the pair broached the topic of how relationships are so incredibly screwed up, inspired by a disapproving comment of Campbell’s regarding the '90s hit single “All My Life” by KC and JoJo that happened to be playing on the radio.

“The whole trip had basically been one long, awkward silence, so I was really just grasping to find something to say,” recalled Campbell, a second-year Irwin resident and Jersey City native. “Little did I know we would strike up one of the most meaningful conversations I’ve had all year. It was really amazing. I mean, wow.”

Following Campbell’s general denunciation of love and all matters pertaining to love, she informed Stern of her breakup with her most recent boyfriend. “I just started talking about Joe [Colgan ’05] and how we'd ended things over the break, and suddenly I was just pouring my heart out,” she said. “I told Dave all about the fights we’d had on the phone, how Joe thought things were getting too serious, about his tramp ex-girlfriend Sally, our long, painful battle with herpes simplex B—all of it. He was just so understanding.”

Coincidentally, Stern was in the process of a breakup himself, the facts of which he soon divulged to an equally sympathetic Campbell. “Dave just went on and on about his ex from home, and how the whole long-distance thing just wasn’t working out,” Campbell continued. “I totally understood what he was saying. He was just so compassionate and thoughtful... and his ex so had no right to just walk in on him and that Denny’s waitress like that. I mean, have some common courtesy.”

By this point in the conversation, the couple had already returned to campus, where they continued talking in the dark of their Satellite parking spot.

see HOOKUP page 4

CAMPUS VOICES

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

Entire freshman class relocated to Lake Norman Regional

REO—Longstanding rumors were confirmed on Monday when, in response to record numbers of alcohol-related hospital trips among members of the freshman class, the Residence Life Office announced that all first-year students would be moved to new housing in the emergency ward of Lake Norman Regional Medical Center.

“RLO considered the problem very carefully and we feel this is the best available solution,” said area coordinator Sarah Jameson. “I don’t have to tell you that over the past few days this place has been overwhelmed.”

Lake Norman opened its beds to the freshman class this weekend.

This entry-level math class is a great way to meet freshmen girls! Picture this: I’m sitting in the back row of a classroom, erudite and worldly following my return from my junior semester abroad, and I’m completely surrounded by underclassmen: most of them female, in their prime, uncertain, scared, and searching for a firm and confident hand to guide them. And just who might be able to openly extend that guiding hand? You guessed it. This entry-level math class is a great way to meet freshmen girls!

Some guys might recommend getting girls through frats. Some might tell you to join an activity, like Concert Choir or Campus Outreach Weekly. But not me. My secret to social success? Finite Math With Advanced Computer Applications, Section C.

The idea to enroll in an entry-level math class struck me on the plane ride back from Florence this December. I wouldn’t necessarily say I did much studying during my three months in Italy. Actually, in all honesty, I can’t even tell you where our school was. But I can tell you the one thing I did learn a lot about: life. From the Irish pubs to the amazing tourist sights, I really soaked up the local Italian culture—and am a whole lot more worldly for it. And you know who’s not so worldly? Freshmen girls. That’s why I enrolled in this class: to impart my great wisdom to those less experienced than I. That, and I still needed my math core requirement if I hope to graduate on time.

In my entry-level math class, I’m king of the roost. I barely even listen to the professor, this class is so basic. Not that I’m that good at math. In fact, I haven’t taken a math course since junior year of high school, and that was Beginning Statistics with Mrs. Flunger, who was deaf and spent most of the semester in a daze.

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

Editor: Colin Eagan

Contributing Editors: Tom Anstrom, Lindy Baldwin, Chris Knowles, Dan Kriebel, Michael Megison, Mark Murray, Susan Robison

The YOWL is published on select days during the academic year as an edited feature of The Davidsonian. Content aims to be biased, erroneous, and needless to say, opinionated. Opinions in the YOWL do not necessarily reflect the views of The Davidsonian Editorial Board. Please address all correspondences to the YOWL Editor at yowl@davidson.edu. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College, although they probably wouldn't admit it.the hospital with jaundice. But that’s what entry-level college math classes are for—an easy A. And an easy way to meet girls! Getting back to the girls, they’re hot. And they’re all really impressed with my nonchalant attitude to this entry-level class, clearly noting my seniority and wisdom. I can help them navigate the challenging textbook buying process early in the semester, suggesting used books instead of the more expensive new ones. I can help them understand that ‘review’ means a test and not a final gathering and study of potential test material, as many first-year females often mistake. And man, I can’t wait for exam time to come by.

HARUY BENTZ ’05

Proud—because who’s going to be the guy to come to when the scary ‘self-scheduling’ process needs to be explained? You guessed it. Me! Of course, I suppose they might have learned a few of these things last semester, seeing as how they probably took classes then and all... but whatever, it takes more than a semester to get down all the intricacies of Davidson academic life. And let’s not forget about the transfers! Oh, the transfers!

Did I mention the group projects? In entry-level math classes you get to work on group projects with one to three partners. And you know who makes the best partners? Freshmen girls! In fact, our partner selections for our first project on The Probability of Getting Heads When Tossing a Coin are due next week. I can only begin to imagine how many freshmen girls are going to put my name down on their sheet. In fact, I can give you my answer in a probability: All of them!

Oh, another thing I forgot to say about projects is that you get to work on them outside of class, and that means going to freshmen girls’ rooms. And that’s so hot, because freshmen girls don’t wear as many clothes in their rooms as they do in the classroom. Especially in the winter. Needless to say, I’m just really looking forward to this class.

Now, to all you guys out there, no going and taking my idea and drop-adding my entry-level math class, because that will just scare the freshmen girls and sketch them out a lot. But even if you do, I’m not worried; I have a feeling these girls are going to have no trouble at all deciding who to get to know and who to avoid in this class. You go girls!

...sounded like Baghdad on a hot night. We simply haven’t had enough emergency lanes to accommodate all of the ambulances and fire-trucks. We've actually had to redirect traffic through the tennis courts.”

RLO made a careful study of the problem and determined that, on average, 87% of first-year students make a trip to Lake Norman Regional during Court Selection weekend, either for alcohol poisoning, broken limbs, or overexposure caused by running around in a Speedo like an idiot. Special alcohol-awareness hall programs, free t-shirts for those who didn’t get drunk, and extra Davidson 101 sessions were all considered as potential solutions. Ultimately, it was decided that the temporary move to Lake Norman was the best possible answer.

“Our valuable first-year students will now have instantaneous access to high-quality medical care,” Jameson said. “It was the most efficient and practical solution for everyone involved. And it saves me one hell of a siren-induced headache.”

Jameson added that in addition to ambulance pickups, less critical trips to the hospital were putting a strain on RLO staff members. “The amount of time and gas money hall counselors spent traveling between campus and Lake Norman Regional was becoming a big burden,” she said. “Now that the hall counselors spend Court Selection in the ER, they won't have to drop everything and drive down to the hospital at four in the morning when one of their residents needs a stomach pumped. They can just walk down the hall.”

Once the decision to move the freshmen to a hospital was made, Lake Norman became the obvious selection. “Lake Norman Regional has consistently been Davidson students’ number-one choice for alcohol-related medical care,” said Jameson. “They basically know half our kids by name.”

The announcement has drawn mixed reactions from the first-year students. “I mean, I like Lake Norman Regional and all—the nurses are really nice about it when you barf on their shoes—but will we have cable TV and internet access?” wondered Katie Jackson ’07. RLO officials quickly assured the students that they would have the full range of amenities, including twice the usual number of toilets.

ANTE-BELLUM FUN CORNER

Pictured above is an original concept for the building of Old Chambers, named for Maxwell Chambers, a South Carolina plantation owner who left $260,000 to the college upon his death on February 7, 1855. Observers shall note that it’s freaking huge. Only the front eighth of the building was ever completed, which highlights the fact that Chambers’ monetary contribution really went to peoples’ heads.

The donation is in fact considered to be the largest sum of money ever given to an ante-bellum southern college, which comes as a surprise to many today, who are still trying to come to terms with the fact that the confederacy actually possessed a system of higher education. The complex’s uncanny resemblance to some grand pastoral palace of the Bourbon dynasty might have something to do with the college’s continued obsession with John Stuart Ney, an elusive Frenchman who worked for Napoleon before realizing he was a crazy person and moving to North Carolina. Tune in next week, when Ney’s story is re-born...right here in the Antebellum Fun Corner!