2/15 Patterson Court

broken by a thrown object. Damage is estimated at $25.00.

Damage to Property
It was reported that some unknown person(s) broke a window pane in the kitchen door at the Connor House. Nothing
was found outside or inside to indicate that the pane was broken by a thrown object.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2004

68 students ‘love responsibly,’ participate in HIV testing

By BREEVIN SHELNUTT
Senior Staff Writer

This past Thursday, Davidson’s Adopt-A-Country AIDS Campaign sponsored “Love Responsibly,” an HIV testing drive at the Student Health Center. Students,
faculty, and staff were given the opportunity to be tested anonymously and without charge.

Sixty-eight people participated in the drive, a dramatic increase from last semester’s free HIV testing day in which only 23
people were tested. There are plans to hold an additional testing day after spring break.

To demonstrate their support of the drive, several administrators agreed to be tested. Dean of Students Tom Shandley commented on
his decision to be tested.

“I agreed to do this because I am willing to do all I can to both raise awareness about the
real health issues regarding HIV/AIDS among college student populations, and to highlight the importance and simplicity of testing for HIV,”
said Shandley.

Director of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano also voiced support for the project.

“People at risk for HIV infection should be getting tested as routinely as they have physicals and get their teeth
cleaned. It should be an ordinary precaution taken by ordinary people rather than something that only exotic people with exciting
or unusual lifestyles do,” said Marsicano.

ACAC began in 2000 with objectives to fundraise for an adopted AIDS organization in Africa, raise awareness of the international
HIV/AIDS crisis on campus, and educate students about HIV/AIDS issues.

Other projects of the ACAC include setting up a display of 3,000 luminaries around campus in support of World AIDS
Day and delivering valentines with condoms attached in recognition of National Condom Day on February 14.

In addition, ACAC will be hosting a “Red and Black Ball” on March 13 to benefit people affected by the
AIDS epidemic. The ball will feature a brief speaker and include desserts, a cash bar, a live band, and a
silent art auction.

All Davidson College students, faculty, and administration as well as top Metrolina AIDS Project donors and several local community members
will receive invitations to the ball.

Tickets will cost $10 for students and $30 for regular admission. Students can RSVP with payment through mail or buy
a ticket in the college union during the week before spring break or the beginning of the week following break.

All of the ticket price for the ball will go to AIDS charities. Half of the proceeds will go towards
ACAC’s adopted organization, the KiHo HIV Hope Group in Kikuyu, Kenya, and half will go towards Charlotte’s Metrolina AIDS Project.

ACAC president Judie Kaplan ’04 encourages students to support the ball.

“I actually traveled to Kenya this summer and worked with the KiHo HIV Hope Group. These people do not have
health insurance, government assistance programs, or even the support of their families. They need more desperately than any group of
people I have ever met.

“A student ticket to the Red and Black Ball costs ten dollars, the cost of a pizza from Papa John’s,
as well as the cost of feeding a family of three for more than a week in Kenya: this money
goes further than many students at Davidson can imagine.”

Outbreak of sore throats, respiratory infections keep Health Center busy

By AMANDA STEPHENS
Senior Staff Writer

It’s that time of year again. Everywhere on campus the cacophony of sneezing, wheezing, and hacking synonymous with January and
February can be heard.

Union cafe tables, computer stations, and library desks boast students with runny noses, glassy eyes, and scratchy throats, reminding us
once again that the cold and flu season is upon us.

According to Jan Poole, R.N., at the College Health Center, sore throats and upper respiratory infections account for approximately 40-50
percent of visits right now.

Cases of conjunctivitis (pink eye) and gastrointestinal viruses are also abundant during this stretch of the year, as opposed to
the flu, which usually strikes right before Christmas break. Cases of the flu have decreased over the past couple of
weeks.

Because of the close quarters, viruses spread easily in dorm rooms, apartments, and classrooms. According to the health center, the
best ways to prevent getting sick are what many know to be common sense practices such as frequent hand washing,
staying well-rested, and eating properly.

According to Poole, symptomatic treatments are a popular way of dealing with viral infections. While symptomatic medicines might lower a
fever or decongest your nasal cavities, they have no impact on the virus itself and only offer temporary relief. Still,
there is no shortage of Davidson students flocking to CVS for aspirin, decongestants, and cold medicines.

The common cold, which can be caused by over two hundred different viruses, is also very prevalent right now. Although
most people would believe that the common cold is spread mostly by coughing and sneezing, it is actually transferred by
hand-to-hand contact.

Colds are easily spread after coming into contact with someone who has the virus and then touching your hand to
your nose or eyes. Viruses can also be caught by contact with hard surfaces like telephones and doorknobs.

Because viruses account for the majority of current illnesses around campus, getting extra rest and drinking lots of fluids make
for the fastest road to recovery.
