DAVIDSON COLLEGE
The DB
“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2004

First Class
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC

VOLUME 96, NUMBER 11

Survey reveals cable does not affect studying
By Kate GILLESPIE
Senior Staff Writer

An annual survey conducted recently by Associate Professor of Political Science Pat Sellers’ Public Opinion class has revealed that Davidson
students are studying more and watching only slightly more TV than they did last year, despite the fact that students
now receive cable TV service in dorm rooms. The survey shows that students on average watch 3.08 hours of TV
and study 21.85 hours per week. Both figures have increased from the 2.45 hours of weekly TV viewing and 20.13
hours of weekly studying that students reported last year, but the rise in TV viewing is not statistically significant according
to Sellers. The survey was sent via email to a random sample of over 900 students, or about half of
the student body. Sellers reported a 52 percent response rate from students.

Although the amount of time spent studying has increased overall, students who responded in a separate question that they supported
the administration’s decision to bring cable TV into dorm rooms averaged only 19.94 hours of weekly studying. The 24 percent
of respondents who did not support the decision, on the other hand, reported they studied an average of 27.98 hours
per week. The statistics showing that having cable TV in dorms has not significantly affected academic life has come as
good news to RLO, as well as to the SGA representatives who fought for the passage of the resolution.

see Cable, page 4

Student makes semifinals of College Jeopardy!
By Kate GILLESPIE
Senior Staff Writer

Davidson student Amy Jendrek '08 competed against 14 other college students in the “Jeopardy!” College Tournament filmed at the University
of Pittsburgh from October 9-10. Jendrek made it to the semifinals of the competition and appeared on a show that
aired November 10, as well as one that will air on November 18. Jendrek tried out for the show with
her father and younger sister in May. “My family has always watched ‘Jeopardy!’ together,” Jendrek said. “One day we saw
an ad that they were having tryouts in Nashville, which is like two hours from my house.

see Jeopardy, page 3

Amy Jendrek ’08 met Jeopardy! host Alex Trebek when she competed in the show’s College Tournament.

A&L, PAGE 6
Broadway hits come to Davidson

Members of the Davidson College Dance Ensemble performed last weekend in Duke Family Performance Hall in front of a packed
audience. See story, page 7.

Mass emails creating problems
By BEN WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

A chain of mass emails started by Arifuz Zaman ’08 early in the semester generated a hostile response from members
of the student body. A later unauthorized email by Cameron Hardesty ’07 received a reportedly “positive” reaction from the majority
of students. The email aimed to generate support for the Davidson women’s soccer team. Zaman started a chain of mass
emails as a joke several weeks ago.and more recently replied to Hardesty’s mass email. Student complaints led to the suspension
of Zaman’s email account after both incidents. Despite the negative response to his emails, Zaman downplays the event. “I didn’t
realize it was such a big deal,” he said. When asked whether he feels any regret, Zaman said, “besides random
kids hating me, not really.”

On November 5, Hardesty sent out a mass email that encouraged fan support for Davidson’s women’s soccer team in the
SoCon tournament. Reactions to the email were much more positive than with Zaman’s email. “I got a lot of really
positive replies,” said Hardesty. “About 20 people replied back to give encouragement.” Hardesty does list one negative reaction. “[A student]
wrote me back an email with a lot of expletives and things like ‘didn’t you read the user license agreement.’”
Hardesty said that an email dialogue developed between the two and that peaceful terms were not reached. Although she herself
began one, Hardesty condemns the mass email started by Zaman. “I thought that was one of the dumbest things I’ve
ever read,” she said. “I think that was kind of a silly way to use it.” The mass emails come
at a time when many students are sending out authorized surveys for class projects. The mass emails do not seem
to be interfering with their responses.

see Emails, page 5

Young Life helps students grow their faith
By Liz Barry
Senior Staff Writer

With cheeks flushed and the smell of bonfire embedded in her jacket, Emily Presley ’07 entered the library still buzzing
from an evening spent roasting marshmallows and sharing stories with local high school students. Presley is one of 41 Davidson
students who devote countless hours to Young Life, a national organization aimed at “introducing adolescents to Jesus Christ and helping
them grow in their faith.” During the school year, Young Life leaders organize and enact weekly club meetings, bible study
groups, and contact work. Because of the religious requirements necessary to become a leader, Young Life is not recognized as
an official Davidson club. There is a team of leaders for each high school in the area.

“I sometimes feel that Young Life is completely set apart from my experience on the Davidson campus, and that can
be difficult,” Janie Gonzalez ’05 said. “What has kept me involved is knowing that what I do has eternal value.
The fact that so many high school girls look up to me for guidance and advice reminds me that I
am in their lives for a reason.” Weekly club meetings usually include creative games, songs, and skits followed by a
brief gospel discussion. Young Life leaders work hard to organize these events, which serve to reach out to young people
in a relaxed, informal atmosphere. “I never thought getting covered in shaving cream or drinking chocolate syrup could be so
satisfying,”

see Young Life, page 5

NEWS: Club Baseball finally gets funding SEE PAGE 3

PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 11
The values debate continues...

Can Davidson Compete with Duke?
SPORTS, PAGE 12
