12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sports fans...

PICK OF THE WEEK

Wildcat game of the week: Lacrosse and Rugby Saturday at 12:00 on the IMAC fields

Despite being 3-12 overall and 0-6 in the conference, the lacrosse team has a chance to finish the season on
a good note with two home SoCon games. Saturday’s match-up against W&M should be entertaining, as it falls right in
the middle of Spring Frolics. With the field only a short distance from Patterson Court, no one has an excuse
not to be rowdy and cheer on the 'Cats. And when there’s a break in the action, you can always
turn around and watch some raucous rugby in the adjacent section of the field.

SPORTS

With the North Carolina weather of late doing its best to distract us during term paper season, countless hours of
library and computer lab time have undoubtedly been spent daydreaming about the hundreds of golf courses that fill the state.
Covington Links aside, a beautiful golf course (or a really cheap one) on a sunny day can be one of
the most alluring excuses this side of a bad hangover to put off class and homework. For the typical semi-lazy
college kid, few things can beat an afternoon spent golfing in the sun with some friends. It’s a perfect way
to forget about the late-semester stress of life at Davidson.

Talk to someone who loves the game for more than its value as an escape from the daily routine, though,
and you’ll find a different way to appreciate golf. You might consider making it a part of your own schedule.
“It was beautiful out today. I played 15 holes,” was the first thing I heard from my grandfather when I
called him up last night. He’s been golfing regularly on the Long Island course he partly owns for the past
30 years (or so). “There are seven days in the week, and unless it’s raining, I play six,” he says.
“I gotta give up one day.” That day is usually reserved for an unplayable one, as the only thing my
grandfather is less likely to miss than his golf game is the Mass he goes to each morning. “Our course
is open all year round. When it’s cold, we put on another jacket.”

“We” is my grandfather’s group of six cronies that meets every day around noon to play until they get tired.
They always scramble, to leave a small margin for error, and if that margin isn’t big enough they sometimes find
other ways to make up for the little bits of yardage that time has slowly taken away. “After you’re 80,
you can move the ball a little. I remember the days I wasn’t allowed to move the ball and did
pretty well.” There’s also the added advantage of being able to shoot your age, an impossible feat for anyone under
the century mark on everything but a putt-putt or par three course. “I’m 81.”

Hitmen, four-story falls, and I’ll start you off with a doozy. St. Louis Blues forward Mike Danton was arrested early
Friday morning after his team had been eliminated from the NHL playoffs by the San Jose Sharks. Earlier in the
week, Danton had made a phone call to a 19-year-old friend, Katie Wolfmeyer. He told her that a man was
coming from Canada to kill him. Danton then said that he would pay Wolfmeyer $10,000 to find a hitman to
kill this man. Wolfmeyer did her part and found a hitman, then took him to Danton’s apartment. Danton wanted the
murder to take place there so they could fix it to look like it was a burglary turned homicide. When
Wolfmeyer and the hitman arrived at the apartment, Danton’s agent was inside. This led to the hitman leaving and Wolfmeyer’s
arrest. The man she had asked to complete the kill had reported the incident to the FBI and was working
for them the whole time. It is still up in the air as to why Danton would want his agent
killed; however, one complaint alleges that Danton was trying to kill a male acquaintance who he had fought with earlier
over Danton’s “promiscuity and use of alcohol.” Some notes about Danton:

A week of welcome!

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Columnist

There’s a first time for everything. It all begins with a first word, then a first step, and hopefully progresses
from there to things like first real job (still haven’t gotten that) and first bachelor party (need a first date).
With spring decidedly here and everything surging back to life, it was fitting that, over the past 10 days or
so, the sports world was blessed with three extremely memorable and lively firsts.

Hopefully by now most of us have progressed beyond the “first kiss” phase of our lives and have moved onto
loftier goals. Freddy Adu, though, is only 14 years old, and would be forgiven if he hasn’t smooched a cute
blonde outside the school gymnasium while waiting for his ride home (What? Isn’t that how it happened for you?). You
see, Adu has been preoccupied over the last several years being the greatest young soccer talent since Pele, and on
Saturday, com-Reports have claimed he changed his last name from Jefferson to Danton in the summer of 2002, and his
dad claims that David Frost, his agent, is a “monster” who is responsible for his poor relationship with his son.
A few minutes in the penalty box is not going to straighten this one out.

An unfortunate break turned into a gold medal-winning performance. 17-year-old Steven Jehu, an under-16 gymnast champion from England, fell from
a fourth-floor hotel window after a bar broke on which he was leaning. Instinctively, Jehu completed a somersault on his
quick descent and landed on his feet. The thirty-three-foot plummet did cause him to suffer a broken ankle as he
landed on a grassy area. It’s a good thing he didn’t listen to his mom and become a diver.

Last year, the young phenom signed a multi-year contract with Nike worth $1 million, and he is the highest-paid player
in Major League Soccer. When I was 14, I was the highest-paid caddy at my local golf course. What’s more,
many soccer pundits believe that when Adu decides to play in Europe, his transfer fee will be high enough to
pay for every other contract in the MLS. He is a fresh new face, with a smile as bright as
his future, and many believe he will do for soccer what Tiger Woods did for golf. Speaking of golf...

They say the blacker the berry, the sweeter the juice. On Easter Sunday, Phil Mickelson tasted one of the sweetest
berries the golf world has ever known. Since 1992, Mickelson has gone 0-for-42 in Majors, leading many to liken him
to Jan Brady, forever in pursuit of the elusive Marcia. On Easter, though, Mickelson rose up and pulled off a
miracle of his own, shooting an incredible 31 on the back nine and sinking an 18-foot putt on the 18th
green to become just the fourth player ever to win the Masters with a birdie on the 72nd hole. All
day long, Mickelson hardly displayed the demeanor of a man who was carrying a monkey on his back that had
been feasting for the past 12 years. He was smiling from ear to ear even as he approached his birdie
putt on 18, and his almost childish four-inch leap/spasm when he sunk that putt.

Last week, the annual World Marbles Championship took place at the “House of Marbles,” Greyhound Pub in West Sussex, England.
27 teams showed up for the annual event, which began in 1930. Hundreds of fans came to witness Germany take
back the trophy as Saxonia beat MC Erzgebirge by the score of 24 marbles to 11. There was word that,
for the first time ever, an American team was going to toss their marbles among the world’s best, but the
team reportedly pulled out of competition because of a “collective bad back.”

Condos, cars, movies, and fans of SC Goetingen 05. Hertz, Blockbuster, and ‘Fans without a Club.’ If you can’t see
where I am going with this, do not worry, it’s bizarre. Last October, SC Goetingen 05, a fourth-division soccer club
in Germany, went bankrupt and disbanded. With no team to pull for, the fans of the team have started a
vocal support group for hire. They accept offers over the Internet and charge the price of a few beers and
a sausage. For their first “job,” 30 fans showed up to help Wolfenbuetteler SV to a 2-0 victory. Currently, the
Atlanta Hawks front office is busy trying to learn German.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2004

Today, and I shot an 81,” he told me with pride. “Then I went to the 14th hole.” This, apparently,
was an uncharacteristic performance. “I usually play in the 70s. But if it gets too hot, I stop playing.” A
kicked ball or fudged scorecard could mean the crucial difference, as any golfer knows, in determining who wins whatever bets
have been made that day. For my grandfather and his five friends, the wager is always the same. “We play
a dollar each for every nine holes, and if you lose it costs you two dollars. All the money goes
to St. Vincent de Paul’s. Today my threesome put in nine dollars, and the other put in three. That means
we lost twice. We'll get those guys tomorrow.” Maybe they will. One thing’s for sure, though. They’ll be out playing
tomorrow as long as the weather holds up. Hopefully, it will, so six “dear friends” won’t have to miss some
of the best four or five hours of their daily routine. “It keeps me busy,” my grandpa says. And it
can still be useful for taking your mind off things. “I’ll tell you something. I have back problems and so
forth, but once I get on the tee, I don’t remember anything but the ball. It’s the greatest sport in
the world.”
