THE DAVIDSONIAN

Patrick Coman '06 went 3-0 over the weekend, but the 'Cats were 0-3

SPORTS

Wrestlers prepare for home finale after tough road trip

By MIKE CHAPMAN
Staff Writer

The Davidson wrestlers opened the month of February on the road this past week, facing Southern Conference opponent Appalachian State on the 3rd and heading off to Franklin and Marshall to face the host and Drexel in a tri-meet last weekend. Unfortunately for the 'Cats, they were unable to tally a win and came home empty-handed each time.

Against Appalachian, all appeared to be well when the team went up 9-0 following the opening two matches. Patrick Coman '06 defeated his opponent 5-1 at 125 pounds to open the match, and Jim Avola '07 followed with a win of his own in the 133-pound weight class. With the score tied 5-5 heading into overtime, Avola needed little time to put his opponent on his back, earning a pin in 46 seconds. Appalachian then built what appeared to be a comeback, which would later turn into an outright victory. Davidson's league record dropped to 0-5. Down by nine points, Appalachian went on to win eight straight matches, pulling off a 39-9 win. The Mountaineers accomplished this with three major decisions and three pins.

"We felt like we wrestled tough against Appalachian State," said Coman, "but we just never got the momentum rolling."

The team was back in practice the following day, preparing for their tri-meet at F&M last weekend. Opening the day versus Drexel, the 'Cats were able to win only three matches. Two of the wins came at the very end of the matchup. Coman came out with a solid 8-1 victory at 125 pounds, while co-captain Adam Sperling '04 (154 lbs) and Marcus Boyd '07 (165 lbs) both had major decisions, 10-1 and 13-3, respectively. Drexel, with the help of three pins, ended up winning the match 30-11.

The 'Cats had no time for disappointment, though, as they had to face F&M soon after. They found themselves in a hole following the first four matches, losing 19-0 after three out of the four upper weights had been pinned. The 'Cats didn't give up, however, and went on to score 19 out of the last 25 points of the day. Coman won his second 125-pound match of the day 6-2 to spark the comeback, bringing his record for the week to 3-0. Avola and co-captain Matt Leonard '06 followed with a pin and a major decision at their respective weights to bring the score to 19-13. F&M won the next two matches, and unfortunately for Marcus Boyd '07, his pin at the 4:43 mark in the 165-pound match was too late to give Davidson the win.

"After [the Appalachian State match] we had a good week of practice and came out and wrestled a lot better against F&M," said Coman. "Having two starters out really hurt us in that match, but there's not much we can do about that. We just have to keep improving."

Davidson's next four matches are at home, starting with a tri-meet this Sunday against American and Gardner-Webb. Wrestling begins at 1 p.m.

"We're excited to have our last two matches at home because we want to send Adam and Mark (O'Hair '04) out as winners in front of a home crowd," added Coman. "They've been through a lot of ups and downs in the past four years, and we'd like for them to be able to end their careers on a positive note."

from Women's, page 16

score. Hatch, at number six, stepped up to meet this need, coming back from a tough first set loss to earn the victory. After losing her first set 6-1, Hatch began to take advantage of her opportunities, controlling her opponent with more frequent trips to the net. The result was a 6-4, 6-3 finish in the second and third sets that evened the overall match at 2-2.

With the match tied, the focus turned to Patterson, who was battling at the number two slot. She lost the first set 6-0, with long, close points played throughout. In the second, the big points started falling Patterson's way, as she ran her opponent all over the court on her way to winning the set 7-5. The match and momentum seemed to be in Patterson's favor at this point, as her opponent was breathing heavily and taking as much time as possible between points. Ultimately, however, after questionable calls and scoring disputes from the Wolfpack player, Patterson fell 6-4 in the final set. Price called the match "one of the best I've ever seen Meggie play. She deserved to win." Patterson's loss gave the Wolfpack a 3-2 advantage, and no more than ten seconds later N.C. State had won the match when Kate Levitt '07 fell short in her attempt to force a third set.losing 6-2, 7-5 at the number five position. Even with the match already decided, Meghan Fillnow continued to fight for victory at number three. After losing the first set 6-4, Fillnow came storming back to win the final two sets 6-1, 6-4, bringing the final margin of victory for N.C. State to 4-3. “I was really proud of the team and their mental toughness,” Price said. “That was a hard match physically. To know that one bounce the other way and it’s our match, that’s huge for our confidence.”

Up next for the Wildcats is Armstrong Atlantic State University on Friday at 3 p.m. Davidson competed against the Pirates in Georgia last season, losing a surprisingly tough match 7-2. The Pirates, ranked 5th in the nation in Division II, will travel to the Knobloch Tennis Center this year for a match in which the ’Cats are hoping to get some revenge.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004

Indoor runners impress at UNC, set for SoCon tourney
By AUSTIN MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

This Saturday, the men’s and women’s track and field teams returned to Chapel Hill for the second time this year to race against some of the best competition in the Southeast. Some seemed hesitant about the return to UNC’s famed indoor track. “It feels kinda funny running on a baby blue track,” said Matt Rhodes ’07. However, positive thinking was the phrase of the day as the team anticipated great races against good competition.

The first event of the meet was the 5-kilometer race, and the Wildcats started the day off with several impressive performances. On the women’s side, captain Laura Puckett ’04 ran in her first indoor 5k of the season and finished a respectable 5th against quality competition. The men’s race featured fine performances from all three Davidson runners, as each placed in the top five. They were led by senior Ben Gaspar’s 15:21.33, which was good enough for second place.

As the meet progressed, more and more Wildcats turned in stellar performances. Nick Lehmen ’05 romped his way to a new personal best in the mile with a 4:24.8. He was followed soon after by Rhodes, who crossed the line in 4:25.88, also a seasonal best. Captain Greg Scott ’04 ran near his school record in the indoor 800, barely missing the record with a time of 1:56.65. The best race for the women in the mile came from Ashley Griffith ’05, as she finished the mile race in 5:29.47. Also, Hillary Leister ’06 ran a very respectable 2:25.04 for the 800 meters.

The distance runners were not the only ones to perform well at this meet. The sprinters and throwers progressed toward the ultimate goal of running fast and throwing far at the conference meet from February 27-28. Chris Rouisse ’04 led the effort with his 24.15 in the 200 meter run, his personal best for an indoor 200 meter track. Mike Ariselmo ’06 put the shot 11.30 meters, his best for the season.

The performances of the day, however, came from David Ritchie ’07 and the Distance Medley Relay squad (Rhodes, Doug Noreen ’07, David Ritchie ’07, and Gaspar). Ritchie ran 51.62 seconds for the 400 meter dash, a school record for indoor 400 meter track. He then ran an even faster split as the 400 meter leg of the DMR (a relay of four legs: 1200, 400, 800, and 1600 meters). Gaspar then ran a blistering 4:20 in the 1600 meter leg to secure the win and establish a new school record of 10:23.67.

Head coach Gary Andrew was excited about the results, especially the new school records, saying, “The guys are really working hard in practice, and we are beginning to reap the rewards of this effort.” Scott was proud of the effort his teammates put forth while keeping an eye on their goal at the conference meet: “This meet was one of the best team-wide efforts in my four years at Davidson. It gives us a lot to look forward to as we approach the indoor Southern Conference championships.”

MOVIE EXTRAS/MODELS NEEDED
Local and statewide productions
No exp. req. all looks ages 18+
Minor and major roles avail.
EARN UP TO $300/DAY
1-800-818-7520

FRIENDS WORLD PROGRAM
ISLAND UNIVERSITY LONG
Live, Study and Work Abroad While Earning College Credit
Year and semester-long programs in:
Japan • China
England • India
Costa Rica
Year-long program in Comparative Religion in:
Taiwan • India
Thailand
Experiential learning through cultural immersion, academic seminars, and independent field study makes Friends World the educational experience of a lifetime.
For information contact:
Friends World Program
Long Island University
239 Montauk Highway, Southampton, NY 11968
(631) 287-8474
e-mail: fw@liu.edu
www.liu.edu/friendsworld

FRIENDS WORLD PROGRAM
LONG
The Friends World Program is part of Long Island University, the eighth largest private university in the country.
NEW! $500 Travel Incentive Award for Fall 2004 Visiting Students