THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2004 3

Club baseball funding issue remains unresolved

By Ben WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

For the second week in a row, controversy over the newly-chartered club baseball team remained the dominant issue at last
Thursday’s SGA meeting. After two extensive discussions among SGA members, the matter is still unresolved.

The first-year club baseball team has requested $3954 worth of funding from the Activities Tax Council. Currently, SGA bylaws limit
first-year organizations to $250 in direct funding from the ATC.

“It is a significant request, but consists of only a portion of our anticipated operating expenses for the year,” said
Roland Foss ’05, the team’s founder. “It is a conservative request.”

Club baseball claims to need extra funding due to a high operating cost. Davidson’s lack of adequate field space forces
the team to rent out field space, and league fees will alone cost $1500.

“I can’t believe SGA and ATC are even considering denying the baseball team funds,” said Senator Mac Skelton ’07, a
supporter of the extra funding. “The ATC allocates thousands of dollars every year to things that are, in my opinion,
of little benefit to the student body. How can we do this and then deny a mere $1,000 to the
baseball team? It just doesn’t add up.”

The current $250 cap on funding for newly-chartered organizations was upheld in a similar situation with the club lacrosse team
last year. The SGA refused the lacrosse team’s request for more than $250.

ATC chairman Adam Gerstenmier ’05 expressed concern that providing club baseball with extra funding will undermine the current precedent that
limits funding on first-year programs.

“If the SGA does decide to give them extra money, then it would eliminate the precedent that we used for
lacrosse last year and for other organizations as well,” he said.

Thursday’s discussion lasted an hour and both sides of the argument were presented. Senator Chris Burks ’07 proposed an amendment
to the bylaws that would allow for the first-year organizations to get extra funding. The amendment was voted down by
a small margin.

Still, the club baseball team might get their extra funding through a loophole.

“This does not preclude club baseball from getting more than $250 because technically they fall under club sports charter rules
and not SGA’s rules,” said SGA president Katharine Hubbard ’05. “Club sports as a whole are chartered by SGA, not
each individual club.”

The club sport charter’s position as a middleman creates a potential loophole for the club baseball team. SGA bylaws only
disallow funding in excess of $250 for newly-chartered organizations that are funded directly by the SGA. Since club baseball falls
under club sport charter rules, they are potentially eligible for more than the current limit.

The club baseball organization, however, will not depend entirely on funding from the SGA.

“The portion of the funds that ATC does not grant us, and those future expenses not outlined in the budget
request, will be taken care of by fundraising,” said Foss.

The club baseball team has attempted to limit costs by using their own gear.

“We are already shouldering a significant amount of the burden,” said Foss. “So it is not as if we are
asking the ATC to give us money for everything.”

LEARN ONE OF 21 LANGUAGES

RSC visit to cost $1 million

By BEN WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

The Royal Shakespeare Company’s visit to Davidson College this March comes with a one million dollar price tag. The visit
is one of four, which have a total cost of $2.5 million. The high costs will exceed ticket revenues, and
the school is already busy with the fundraising effort.

School officials express confidence in their ability to raise the funds.

“We’re bumping up against our deadlines, but I feel confident that we’ll reach all of our goals,” said Kristin Bradberry,
Davidson’s Vice President of College Relations.

Members of Davidson’s administration and theatre department insistthat the unique opportunity to attract the highly-esteemed RSC justifies the expense. “The
Royal Shakespeare Company is the foremost producer of Shakespeare,” said Bethany Prestigiacomo, the Director of Artist Residency Programs. “The study
of Shakespeare is such a liberal art and to attract [the RSC] is a special treat.” President Bobby Vagt is
largely credited for successfully bringing the RSC to Davidson. “It is important for the academic mission of the school, it’s
important for the liberal arts mission of the school because of the interdisciplinary nature of what they offer, and it’s
important for the community at large since we’re bringing Shakespeare to them,” said Vagt.

Attracting the RSC came down to proper facilities and financing. “We appealed to them and they liked what they saw,”
said Professor Joe Gardner, chair of the Theatre Department. He said that the RSC found Davidson’s theatre facilities compatible with
their artistic direction and agreed to come. Still, money was an important factor. “A lot of it comes down to
money,” said Gardner, “and we were willing to pay to bring them over.” Supplying those funds will largely rely on
fundraising efforts as ticket sales will not approach the visit’s cost. So far, the school has been unable to find
a single donor willing to provide for the full cost of the upcoming visit. “Our preference would have been a
single big donor,” said Bradberry, “but right now we don’t have one individual or company willing to pay the total
expense.”

Current efforts are looking at smaller sponsorships that range from $5,000 upwards. Bradberry added that the school is especially focusing
the fundraising effort on “local companies that could use the publicity, companies that do business with Davidson, and alumni.” While
ticket sales will help cover some of the costs, the fundraising effort is not counting on any predefined ticket revenue.
“Ideally, the ticket revenue will supplement the fundraising effort,” said Bradberry, “but we’re approaching our fundraising like we’ve got to
get the full million.”

Despite the high costs, supporters argue that the RSC will help advertise Davidson and provide a unique cultural experience to
both the school and the surrounding community. The community has agreed to promote a Shakespeare-themed March with the college. “The
Davidson Public Library agreed to do a month-long Shakespeare book club, schools are doing a month-long focus on Shakespeare, and
5th graders will rehearse Shakespeare plays,” said Prestigiacomo. Davidson will also provide an Academic Symposium involving public speakers of national
renown. Beyond efforts to maximize the cultural experience, supporters point to the simple quality of the RSC. “Every student owes
it to himself to go see these plays,” said Gardner. “It’s like the Red Sox coming to campus. To see
the best of anything at this level is truly amazing.”

---

CAT CUPPS ARE HERE!!!

Pick up your Cat CUPPS on Monday, November 15th and Wednesday the 17th at (or near) the Union Amphitheater around
10:30 to 3:30. FREE CUP FOR ALL NEW STUDENTS, suggested donation of $3 for upperclassmen and faculty. FREE HOT CHOCOLATE
AND BAKED GOODS INCLUDED.

Reasons to use your Cat CUPPS:
1. Discount in the Union Café
2. Use as a to-go cup in commons (can't do that with other mugs)
3. Earth-friendly solo cup
4. Look cool!
5. ‘Cause every other liberal arts college uses one

---

As a Soldier at the Defense Language Institute in Monterey, California, you’ll learn one of 21 languages. And you don’t
need to speak a foreign language to qualify.

---

It's that time again! If you like to reduce waste (or dig through other people's trash), come out to the
WASTE AUDIT on November 16th from 10-3 in Baker Parking Lot. Forty cubic yards of trash will be sorted and
categorized. Our waste audits help us determine how well Davidson's recycling program is performing.

---

Call Sgt. 1st Class Boyce at 563-0560 to find out about college loan repayment and more Army benefits.
