“We’re so close”: Kelly and Meghan Fillnow ’05 were in sync all season as Davidson’s no. 1 doubles tandem.

By Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

Despite losing their final match of the regular season in devastating fashion to Furman, the women’s tennis team entered last
weekend’s Southern Conference tournament with realistic hopes of earning an NCAA tournament berth. The ’Cats performed extraordinarily this year, both
as a team (reaching their highest win total in conference play since entering the SoCon in 1993) and as individuals
(players were twice awarded SoCon Player of the Week awards, in addition to a SoCon Player of the Month award).
Their only conference losses were to the defending champions, College of Charleston, and a perennial conference force, Furman.

The draw revealed a challenging, but not impossible, path to the championship for the ’Cats, with potential matches against East
Tennessee State, Charleston, and Furman. After starting their run with their second win over ETSU this season, a 4-2 victory,
the Wildcats played as tight a match as could be played with Charleston in a rematch of last year’s championship.
The ’Cats fell just short of the victory, though, with a 4-3 loss, and Davidson’s season came to an end
two wins short of the prize.

Friday’s quarterfinal match with ETSU was a worrisome matchup for the Wildcats. Despite falling easily to Davidson 6-1 several weeks
earlier, East Tennessee State had picked up some big wins down the stretch, including a victory over the tournament’s second
seed, Charleston. ETSU’s improved play was evident from the start of Friday’s match, as the sixth-seeded Mocs earned victories in
two of the three doubles.

Track & Field takes home victories and school records at Belk Invitational

By AUSTIN MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

This past Saturday was Davidson’s home track meet, the Irwin Belk Invitational. Races were run, distances were jumped, javelins were
thrown, and shots were put. When the dust settled, Davidson finished with several victories and a new school record.

The women’s 1500-meter race started the day with two great performances. Allie Martin ’06 and Ashley Griffith ’05 once again
waged an epic duel over the last lap, with Martin finishing ahead by the slightest of margins. Martin’s time of
4:51.42 was her best this season. Griffith set a new personal best as well, running 4:51.43.

The men’s 800 was a battle between several of the top middle-distance runners in the Southern Conference. Gregory Scott ’04
crossed the line in third place, running a season-best of 1:54.36. Finishing close behind was Nicholas Lehman ’05, setting a
new personal best for 800 with his 1:57.20.

Carissa Skrivanek ’06 dominated the women’s 3-kilometer run. Skrivanek pulled away during the 7.5 lap race, finishing in first place
with a time of 10:55.03. Sally Stanhope ’05 finished the race in fourth place, with her smooth stride carrying her
to a time of 11:12.45.

In the men’s 3K, Ben Gaspar ’04 continued his winning ways. Gaspar moved to the front with a mile left
in the race, then dropped the pack like a bad habit. Gaspar cruised to victory in 8:43.01. Finishing soon after
were Chris Schmader ’04 and David Bunge ’04 in their last races in Davidson’s illustrious stadium. Bunge pulled away from
Schmader in the final 400 meters of the race, finishing in 9:00.94 to Schmader’s 9:03.73.

David Ritchie ’07 continued his amazing improvement in the 400-meter hurdles. Ritchie used his enormous stride to pull away from
all his competitors en route to finishing first in the event. Ritchie’s time of 54.55 seconds is his fastest time
of the season.

It was in the relay events, however, that Davidson runners had the greatest success. The 4x100 relay team of Chris
Rouisse ’04, Andrew Pratt ’04, John Bialas ’07, and David Ritchie ’07...Page 17

In doubles matches for the doubles point, Katherine Hatch ’04 and Sarah Borkowski ’05 made up for Davidson’s 8-4 loss
at number two with an 8-6 win at the number three position, putting the pressure on Kelly and Meghan Fillnow
’05 at number one. But the Fillnows were unable to come up with the victory, falling 8-6 to the Mocs’
top doubles team and surrendering the early 1-0 lead to ETSU.

“ETSU came out strong,” said head coach Caroline Price. “They’re a strong doubles team, so we knew that was going
to be a competitive point.”

The Wildcats returned strongly in the singles matches, winning four of the five to be completed, good enough for a
4-2 victory. After losing at the number four position to fall behind 2-0, the ’Cats rallied with four straight-set victories
in a row in which no Davidson player surrendered more than four games, and Kelly Fillnow clinched the match with
a 6-2, 6-2 win at the top position.

Only two matches away from the championship, the Wildcats faced in the semifinals the Charleston team that defeated them 5-2
a month earlier. After earning a quick 8-3 victory at the top spot in doubles, Davidson only needed one more
doubles win to gain the advantage in what was sure to be a tight match. Neither doubles team at positions
two and three could come up with a win, though, leaving the Wildcats in an early 1-0 hole.

“We knew it would be a challenge to win the doubles,” said Price. “When you’re playing one of the top
teams, if you don’t win that doubles point, you’ve got quite a mountain to climb.”

Another early loss at number four in the singles matches once again put Davidson down 2-0. But, just as they
had a day earlier against ETSU, the Wildcats fought back. Meggie Patterson ’05 overcame her opponent 6-1, 6-4 at number
two, while Kelly Fillnow battled to a 3-6, 6-2, 6-1 win at number one, evening the match at 2-2.

“Meggie was cranking it up on her opponent, and that was a super win for Kelly, her first over that
opponent,” Price said.

The Cougars and Wildcats traded victories in the next two matches to leave the courts, as Charleston earned a straight-set
victory at number three and Davidson’s Kate Levitt ’07.

See Tennis, page 18

Doug Noreen ’07 and the ’Cats were both exhausted and victorious this past weekend.

Play of the Week — Taylor Shoop ’06
Baseball
Hometown: Malibu, CA
Major: Undecided

A .300 hitter on the season, Shoop is one of the more underrated players on this year's team. While his
laid-back attitude off the field is clearly a result of his Malibu upbringing, his concentration on the field is the
exact opposite. Often a designated hitter, Shoop's .529 slugging percentage is tops on the team and his 17 RBI tie
him for second. With a good off-season workout regimen, look for Shoop to hit around .400 next season to go
along with 30 RBI and five home runs.

One of Jeter’s younger teammates, John Bolton ’07, said that he had never worked out so hard in his life.
Another teammate, Luke Justus ’07, said, “With the help of Jeter to keep me motivated, I was able to work
out twice as hard as I ever was before.”

After the frustrating loss of their number two and number four singles players, the men’s tennis team finished out the
season with a second-round loss in the SoCon tournament to top-ranked ETSU. If the ’Cats can maintain the same level
of off-court training that they did throughout the winter, however, next season looks to be more than promising. Led by
Thomas Jeter ’06, the ’Cats hit the weight room harder than ever. During matches, the crowd could be heard whispering
about how swollen the team looked.
