THE DAVIDSONIAN

Hermes & Fae Milanes

PERSPECTIVES

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2004

Bush’s mandate means progress for US.
By JOSEPH ADAMS
Staff Columnist

After absorbing months of campaign rhetoric, media coverage, and heated discourse, the American people on Tuesday re-elected President George W. Bush and expanded Republican control of both the House of Representatives and the United States Senate. Perhaps second in significance to the presidential race was the Senate race in South Dakota, in which former Congressman John Thune (R-SD) unseated the Democratic Senate leader, Tom Daschle (D-SD). Now that the president’s first-term record and his second-term agenda have both been endorsed by the American people, all Americans should have high expectations that the president will effectively address the challenges our nation faces over the next four years.

President Bush won Tuesday’s election for two primary reasons. First, the president won because he effectively mobilized his base. While high voter turnout is generally assumed to benefit Democrats, it does so only when the Democratic candidate is well-liked. In the case of Mr. Bush, more than three-fourths of his supporters said they voted “for” the president instead of “against” his opponent, while only half of Mr. Kerry’s supporters say they voted “for” the senator. The president’s victory also resulted from his incredibly effective use of theme throughout the campaign. The American people know the difference between principles and platitudes, and they sided with principles in re-electing George W. Bush.

Before we consider how President Bush will govern in the next four years, it seems helpful to look back at how the president led in his first term, throughout which the president’s political “mandate” was debated. Following the close election of 2000, President Bush wasted no time before promoting his ambitious domestic and foreign policy agendas. The 3.5-million-vote margin of victory for President Bush in Tuesday’s elections gives his administration a clearer mandate than any administration in recent history. In an election featuring the highest voter turnout since 1968, President George W. Bush captured 51 percent of the vote. Furthermore, both houses of Congress registered gains for the Republicans. If the president’s victory in this election does not constitute a mandate for his second term, then no president in our history has ever received one.

With both the House and Senate remaining in Republican hands, the president’s tax cuts and education and health care policies seem bulletproof, and it is probable that he will capitalize on his mandate early by immediately pursuing further reforms in these policy areas. As strong as the president’s victory was on Tuesday, it is possible that stronger still is the Democratic Party’s defeat. Perhaps the most important domestic issue in the president’s second term will be the nomination of justices to the Supreme Court, where two or more vacancies are expected next year alone. With a 55-seat majority in the Senate, President Bush has the political power to appoint justices whose ideology aligns with his own. Indeed, the president should have little trouble seating pro-life justices on the Court. Minority Whip Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV), a pro-life Democrat, is poised to become the new Senate Minority Leader, and he seems less likely than Sen. Daschle to lead a Democratic filibuster of conservative, pro-life court appointees.

If those Americans who supported John Kerry’s candidacy exhibit the same class and dignity that the senator conveyed in his concession, then Americans can move forward—together—to confront the challenges on our nation’s horizon. Our country will be immeasurably better off if we can again choose to put the well-being of our people ahead of our political affiliations.

Remember Davidson
By SAMI JARRAH
Staff Columnist

For many of us November 2 was among our first forays into the illustrious (read: perplexing) world of voting. Some of us used Number Two Pencils to fill in bubbles, while others punched holes, mindful to avoid those pesky hanging (or dimpled!) chads. Still others had our eyes scanned and used touch-screen computers. Deep down, though, I know this election was about more than Bush or Kerry, Democrat or Republican, Ohio or Florida, Conservative or Liberal. This election helps us express our values, where we want our country to go. We vote because we have good reasons to do so.

This is where I get worried. The results of this election suggest to me that our country is treading a dangerous philosophical path. Where are Americans placing their values? According to the exit polls, what Americans most value in their presidential candidates is strong leadership, the capacity to bring change, and a clear stand on the issue. Forgive the hyperbole, but most of history’s dictators fulfill these requirements. These same surveys report that the least important quality in a presidential candidate is intelligence. In our little ivory tower that is Davidson, this inspires little hope. Don’t worry, though, those polled report that religious faith is only slightly more important than intelligence.

According to Davidson College’s Statement of Purpose, our education here is charged with teaching us “to think clearly, to make relevant and valid judgments, to discriminate among values, and to communicate freely with others in the realm of ideas.” I wonder if we, as American voters, are fulfilling our goals. Could our country’s voting population, as a whole, live up to this? Should it have to? I think so, but I could be jaded. Could President Bush live up to the same expectations that we, as Davidson students, are expected to uphold? I fear the answer is no. The values by which we judge our leaders are skewed, and it should, atthe very least, arouse individual introspection. Ask yourself, “Why did I vote the way I did?” I am reminded of the great prophet Michael Corleone (from “The Godfather”). He said, “Hyman Roth has been dying from the same heart attack for the last twenty years.” I think our country is Hyman Roth. And that heart attack is the ideological distortion through which we judge our leaders. Granted, Election Day has come and gone, and we survived. Kind of. I’ve shed my tears, and I will move on with hope for brighter days ahead. Call me naive. Call me disillusioned. Even call me Sami. But Davidson has helped me to value mind over bravado, rationality over whim, logic over rhetoric. I hope we can all address why we make our decisions and strive for meaningful criteria for our positions of leadership.

To vote only with ‘values’ in mind is to devalue the vote in vain.

By SAM SPENCER
Staff Columnist

The exit polls Tuesday night said that the Republicans won not on the economy or Iraq, but on values. Many born-again Christians even feel they have a personal connection to Bush. However, while many Republicans are true believers in Christian and conservative values, the party leadership consistently puts politics ahead of piety. Let me explain.

The Republican Party leadership feigns interest in “values,” running on conservative platforms with evangelical candidates. I’m sure that most of these candidates believe in these values... maybe even President Bush himself. But their beliefs are apparently not important (except on the campaign trail), and this is reflected in recent policy decisions by the Republican leadership. Bush says he will not fund abortions, yet he increased international family planning funding. He told his base that he took millions of dollars out of one family planning and abortion program, but then he turned around and put it in another. He has supported abstinence education in the face of psychological and sociological evidence that demonstrates that such education leads to more abortions, not less.

On the issue of Partial-Birth Abortion, or D&E, the Republicans wrote their bill to lose. The bill that Congress passed (that Kerry voted against) was almost exactly like the Nebraska PBA ban that was struck down by the Supreme Court in 2000 because it was vague and did not allow a provision for the life of the mother. Obviously, the authors did not want the PBA ban to pass Judicial Review. Why would the GOP do this? To put it simply, they did it to increase turnout among their “base,” the born-again voters. If measures like a Federal Marriage Amendment and a PBA bill do not pass, it energizes the base if the GOP blames the failure on “activist judges.” Nobody thought the FMA would pass, but by having it fail, the GOP ensured that voters would vote against gay marriage in individual states. To add insult to injury, the GOP can run ads against Kerry that say he is for PBA when he is actually against it. This continues this year’s theme within the GOP, by reducing votes to “yea” or “nay.” It is simply deception by oversimplification. But in this climate, one cannot call someone out on being a liar, even when they are lying. Nevertheless, calling a lie a lie and a spade a spade is not an ad hominem attack. Calling someone a flip-flopper based on fallacious information is.

If the GOP leadership really has values, how could they forget scripture like “thou shalt not lie” and “let he who is without sin cast the first stone?” Don’t get me wrong — the last thing I want to do is call a person who votes on faith insincere. The people who are running the ads and making policy in the GOP are the ones that have been inconsistent. They know they can never ban abortion, because that will mobilize the other base, the slight majority of Americans that are pro-choice. They know that their voters get angry and vote when they do not have victories on moral issues.

The GOP says that Democrats don’t have values. At the Republican National Convention, the GOP even talked of having a big tent, where some groups were welcome, but a few were not. Well, when I think of the Democratic Party I think of a Big America, a land of the free where everyone is invited, where people can live and worship how they choose regardless of the color of their skin or the size of their wallet. We still have a long way to go, but as long as we believe in America, as long as we look to the future, and as long as we love our neighbors as ourselves, we will overcome terrorism and create that shining city on the hill that John Winthrop envisioned.

We cannot let the discourse in this nation rest on values. Values will not save us from terrorism and economic ruin. If all we talk about is faith and values, then we will not be united. Bush said that he will “do all he can do” to earn the trust of those that voted for Kerry; unfortunately, Mr. Bush’s faith creates a climate of subjugation on one side and adoration on the other. If we want to be united, we have to let wedge issues go and remember that we are all Americans. If someone is sincere about uniting America, they must take this to heart and quit playing games with the faith and values of Americans.