12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

For you sports fans...

PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat game of the week: Baseball vs. Wake Forest
Tuesday at 3 p.m.

Baseball is the national pastime, and it finally returns to Davidson. The team opens with a difficult opponent in the
Demon Deacons, who are looking to make a run at the ACC title this year. Come support our guys by
filling the stands. This is one of nine home games.

SPORTS

Davidson athletes aren’t out for public glory or special privileges. They don’t play their sport to make fellow students hold
their breath when they enter the room. They don’t expect better housing, better meal plans, or to cut you in
line. And, like any other Davidson student, they certainly don’t expect easy grades. If anything, good grades must be harder
to come by for the athletes here. With study time sacrificed for the practice field (or court, or track, or
pool) and weight room, they enjoy less free time than most among a student body that echoes with complaints of
an overflowing schedule.

For the most part, however, these complaints are seldom heard from those involved in a varsity sport. They’re more likely
to come from a poor soul who has to sacrifice his or her Wednesday night drinking binge for the sake
of writing a research paper. Which is why I'll have to do the complaining for at least one athlete here,
since he refuses. Please excuse the vagueness. This athlete, who already gets nothing but sore limbs and personal satisfaction for
his efforts, has a tournament to attend in the next few weeks that will require him to miss a good
amount of class. Last year, he recalls, it took him over a month to make up for the missed time.
He’s already begun to read ahead in preparation. In fact, he began to prepare for the missed time at the
start of the semester, when he emailed the professor for a class in which he saw he’d be missing a
lab. The professor’s response to his student’s request for a make-up: Nope.

The best solution that the registrar and professor could come up with: take an F on the lab. The student
will automatically fail his lab when he takes his excused absence to fulfill an obligation to his school and team
by competing in the tournament. He will not be permitted to make the lab up ahead of time, as he
suggested, by working with another lab group. The professor will not go out of his way to set up a
special lab for the student, which is understandable, since faculty members here have considerable time constraints of their own. But
the fact that the professor won’t go out of his way to simply excuse his student from the lab —
one of quite a few throughout the semester — is absurd. The fact that the only option offered to the
student besides taking an F was to miss part of his Division I tournament is enraging.

That Davidson doesn’t make many special excuses for its athletes is one of the most alluring aspects of our unique
Division I program and one of the biggest reasons to root for and respect our athletes. An example like this,
however, takes the idea too far and presents a challenge to establishing our program as legitimate and competitive among our
divisional peers. The brilliant and caring faculty here is one of the best aspects of the Davidson experience.

A boob at halftime, the revoke of a fine to Bengal’s quarterback John Kitna for wearing a hat with a
cross on it to a post-game press conference, a federal judge’s decision to allow underclassmen college players into the draft:
one thing leads to the next, and what do you get? An NFL mommy! At this year’s Pro Bowl, eight-year
veteran and three-time Pro Bowler Simeon Rice was sent home early from the event after repeatedly proving his inability to
take good care of himself. In a letter written by Herald Henderson, chairman of the NFL management council (aka NFL
mom), Rice was accused of “showing up two days late to training, missing team meetings, making a disturbing scene in
the Honolulu hotel lobby, and lastly, showing up to practice with his shoelaces untied.” If only his real mommy had
taught him to loop, swoop, and pull...

An interesting tale of five college basketball players and a married woman: after losing in a Big East match-up to
Pittsburgh, five St. John’s players headed to a strip club for a night with unexpected turns. Also at the club
was 38-year-old Sherri Ann Urbanek-Bach, who met up with the players and eventually made her way back to their hotel
room. Upon exiting the hotel the next morning, she claimed to have been raped and sexually assaulted by the St.
John’s roundballers. Bad news for the Red Storm, until technology took its course and a video was given to the
police from a St. John player who had recorded evidence on his digital camera cell phone. The tape showed Bach
saying that she would have sex with these men for money. Apparently, $600 dollars was the offer, and when only
six dollars was paid up, Bach felt the need to make false claims that she was assaulted and raped. Although
not in trouble with the police after the cell phone proved them innocent, one of the players has been expelled
from the university and the other four have been suspended from the team and the school. As for Bach, she
spent eighteen hours in jail for filing false reports and is still waiting for her husband to pick her up
from the slammer...

A Brazilian referee ended

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004Most of the professors, probably even the one mentioned here, wouldn’t think about acting unfairly towards their
students or making them suffer for being responsible athletes. Intentional or not, though, it does happen. And in cases like
this, an athletic program that is constantly trying to overcome the many obstacles that face one of the smallest Division
I schools in the nation suffers yet another disadvantage. Hopefully, this is an exception, and it likely is. It would
be hard to find out if it weren’t, at least from the players. They’re not about to complain. “That’s just
the way it goes,” the athlete says. It shouldn’t be.

He left his match twenty minutes early due to the embarrassment of his actions. Carlos Jose Figueira Ferro, who was
refereeing a soccer game in Anama, Brazil, was about to send off Paulo Coise for misconduct as he proceeded to
reach into his back pocket for a red card. What he did pull out was red, but not in the
form of a card. Instead, what were reported as red lace panties were drawn from Ferro’s pants. With that said,
Ferro ended the game early, Coise was never booked, and Ferro’s wife, present at the game, who didn’t recognize the
lingerie, got on her cell phone to file for divorce...

NO BOUNTY, BUT HEAD WANTED!

Also wanted, the person who stole the head. The head of the Philadelphia Phillies mascot, the Phillie Phanatic, worth $3000,
is missing. Tom Burgoyne, the man responsible for acting as the Phanatic, left the suit in a changing room as
he took a short break from a charity event at a Wachovia bank. When he returned to the unlocked room,
the head was gone. Only someone in need of desperate cover-up would surrender to stealing a green, furry head with
a large snout. How far is Pittsburgh from Philly?

Every man can have sports as his Valentine
By PETER ALLISON
Sports Editor

With Valentine’s Day fast approaching, I would like to give a shout-out to my first love. At times she is
cruel, leaving me with a sick feeling in the pit of my stomach, but I will always come back to
her, for she has the ability to make my jaw drop, the ability to let me sit back with a
content smile on my face, even the ability to make me feel like I am on top of the world.
Gentlemen, girls may come and go, but my love of sports will last me a lifetime.

A man’s love of sports is more than the personal enjoyment of a hobby. For one, it gives every man
the opportunity to be a hero. Anyone who has ever hit the game-winning shot in a pick-up game, or scored
the game-tying goal in stoppage time, understands that feeling, and the idea that no matter how exhausted he may feel,
or how close his legs are to giving out on him, he must keep going. The drive is different for
everyone, but it is alive in all athletes. It may be the fear of letting yourself down, of knowing you
stopped running just one mile from home, and maybe you could have finished it. It could be simply the desire
to win, or just wondering what it would feel like to finally get that first victory.

I played three years of high school football. After my first twenty-one games, my team was 0-21. Going into my
final game, the final game of football in my life, I wanted nothing more than to win that game. I
wanted to understand what it felt like to, in the immortal words of Vince Lombardi, to “lie exhausted on the
field of battle...victorious.” Every night during the week leading up to the game, I went to bed wondering how much
I would regret if... Luckily, I never had to deal with that feeling. My glory days of high school sports
ended with my school rushing the field to celebrate my team’s one victory. Those are the moments every man looks
for when he steps on the field. Honestly, I don’t even know how well I played. What I do know
is that I put more effort into that game than I had in my body that day, because if I
had lost, I would not have wanted to leave that field.

I think a lot can be said for certain high school sports, like football or soccer. Those sports, as in
others, force players to become like brothers. I do not think anybody who has played one of those sports could
look me in the eye and say that after four years of sweating with his teammates during practices, suffering together
through wind sprints, shedding blood in an effort to reach the same goal, that those teammates are not his brothers.
Even on a more superficial level, sports can leave a person feeling enamored: sitting on the couch and casually tossing
the koosh ball over your shoulder, then watching as it ricochets off the closet door, off the ceiling, and hits
nothing but net; trying to figure out how that guy sitting opposite you just bounced eight quarters in a row
into that shot glass; realizing that all a person needs to have fun is a plastic bat, a ball with
holes in it, seven guys, and a beautiful day. All those feelings only enhance our love for sports.

My eighth-grade English teacher once told me there were three great moments in life: the moment when the mind finally
figures out a difficult intellectual problem and goes “ah ha,” and the moment in sports when a person puts forth
a great effort and is justly rewarded. The third, he said with a wink, we would know when it happened
to us. Well, moments one and three are great, but I’ll take two, because it’s so much easier to get.
