THE DAVIDSONIAN \ WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004

Wedding plans? Classic Bride provides everything but the groom

By ANNA LAUZON
Staff Writer

(Fact: Current rumor has it that three percent of Davidson College seniors are either engaged or married.)

Valentine’s Day can be bitter for those who don’t have a sweetie, and even the love-struck can get testy when
their soon-to-be-insignificant other doesn’t acknowledge the holiday. But there’s no reason to pout. February is half over. The slush is
melting, and the marriage season is about to begin. This year, don’t let it pass you by. With the resources
available on Main Street, there’s no excuse to procrastinate. Who knows how long it could take to find the perfect
dress or cake filling?

In Davidson, Classic Bride now offers designer and custom gowns, veils, shoes, and tiaras for the special day. For women
unfamiliar with the process of buying a wedding dress, B.J. Knox and her daughter Z.Z. are an invaluable asset. Knox
spent years in the fashion industry in California, and Z.Z., a college student, is already designing bridesmaids’ dresses and wedding
gowns. Their objectives are to find a flattering dress that the bride loves and to keep costs within reason. Knox
says, “I want them to look good. It’s not about price; it’s about fit and look.”

Just bring in a picture of your favorite dress from “Elegant Bride,” or whatever bridal magazine you have hidden away
in your room, and the Classic Bride’s crew of designers and seamstresses can custom-design a dress for you reminiscent of
the Vera Wang and the Amsale that dance in your dreams. Cost for custom dresses depends on design, fabric, size,
and embellishments. The store also sells dresses off the rack and sample sizes, which are affordable designer dresses that can
be altered to fit.

In addition to wedding, bridesmaid, flower girl, and mother-of-the-bride dresses, Classic Bride can design dresses for any special occasion. Offering
professional alterations and wedding/event planning, this adorable boutique on Main Street is a bride’s one-stop shop. (Sorry, men; they don’t
sell tuxes.) For the bride who wants to tone her arms before she wears that sleeveless dress, Classic Bride arranges
fitness sessions with a trainer. Knox explains that she works with Oak Ridge Flowers and Sweet Pickens down the road
for catering, flowers, and cakes. The store can even arrange for area makeup artists and hair stylists to work onsite.
When there is a wedding going on, Knox and Z.Z. are on call and ready to help out if the
bride runs into any snags. Says Knox, “We want to take the pressure away from the experience.” At Classic Bride,
you can feel secure and confident. When the big day arrives, you know you’ll be in good hands.

Not to be overshadowed by the bride, the cake plays its own very important role in the wedding festivities. Julie
at Sweet Pickens says that their most popular flavor is butter pecan, which is followed by the traditional favorite, almond.
Cakes start at $2 a slice. When planning out cake costs, you will have to budget in sugar flowers and...the
Brady family. Plan your invitation list accordingly. With the plethora of choices—almond, marble, cookies and cream, hazelnut, citrus, and amaretto—a
bride could spend hours sampling cakes and deciding on accents. Looking over the list of cake flavors, fillings, and frostings,
I reach for the phone. The trainer says that she is available and asks when the wedding is. “Oh, I
don’t really have a date picked yet.” Or a spouse. Once I get everything planned, I figure the groom will
just fall into place. There is no rush really, but why put off until tomorrow what you could do today?

Classic Bride
106 South Main Street
P.O. Box 1856
Davidson, NC 28036
704-896-3655
www.classicbride.com

Sweet Pickens’ and Oak Ridge Events etc.
Cornelius, NC
704-987-7767

Glitter and narcissism detected at Grammys
By Liz BILLET
Senior Staff Writer

The most pressing question of the 46th Annual Grammy Awards was: who invited Jennifer Love Hewitt? Never has anything been
more statistically impossible than a Hewitt Grammy nomination. Oh, but she was there, forgetting that dating Carson Daly and releasing
three albums that only went platinum in Japan does not a musician make.

So go all award shows, each a melee of predictable winners and B-list losers who are drawn like scantily clad
moths to the flame of success. This success is meted out in questionably symbolic trophies. Fact: a Golden Globe is
understood as an icon of the extensive wealth (Golden) and world domination (Globe) of American celebrities. But what about the
Grammy? It says to the winner, “To celebrate your musical prowess, here is a shiny new miniature of the very
first sound system.” The outmoded gramophone has yielded to the phonograph, the record player, the 8-track, the cassette tape, the
compact disc, the mini-disc, and the MP3. Hell, you’d probably rather listen to music on a Pocket Rocker than on
a gramophone, the sound quality is so bad. But don’t worry, it’s not functional, it’s just for decoration. That’s why
they’ve added this heinous faux-mahogany base. The Grammy trophy has become the plump cherry on the ludicrous sundae of celebrity
worship that is otherwise known as an award show.

TERRY’S TAXI
Serving Iredell and Mecklenburg County
24 Hour Service
Daytime: (704) 663-9411, (704) 663-9413
Evenings: (704) 663-9415, (704) 663-9812

If you need transportation to and from the airport, bus station, or other areas call Terry’s Taxi
Over 50 years of service

Beyonce’s dress: definitely not Christian Dior

As if you tuned in to find out whom the winners were. No, you didn’t, because you knew that the
money shot of Beyonce with 15 miniature gramophones tucked in her armpits was inevitable. You tune in for the real
money shots: the moments in live television which torture those with bad nerves to the edge of nausea and leave
those who live to rubberneck at the edge of their seats, waiting for a celebrity car wreck. For example, during
the opening performance by Beyonce and Prince (a very smoking duet, actually), Beyonce’s pink dress was carefully designed to flash
her matching pink underwear throughout her Tina-Turner-slash-Parkinson’s-twitch dance moves. Sadly, Prince’s buttcheeks decided not to make an appearance.

see Grammys, page 7

1-800-648-4849 / www.ststravel.com
