TODAY'S NEWS

New Chambers bell extremely Parents: Don’t be fooled! The average GPA at Davidson is 3.76

Men's Soccer team struck by notorious Davidsonian curse SEE PAGE 7

Freshman has 113 friends on thefacebook.com SEE PAGE 10

Blood drive pressures students. There was an impressive turnout for this year’s annual American Red Cross Blood Drive sponsored by Davidson College ROTC, with both veterans and first-time donors coming in droves to the first floor of the Alvarez Union. While most were enthusiastic and ready to roll up their sleeves, some students found the entire ordeal to be a disturbing form of peer pressure.

John Gries ’07 explained how he felt when confronted with the scene of the Blood Drive, “The signs everywhere, the ROTC kids glaring at you from behind the sign-up tables, the bright ribbons around all your friends’ arms...it was even worse than last year. If there were this much coercion involved in something like drug abuse, half the college would need to be put in detox.”

Students like Gries feel that because they are in the minority in not donating blood, the rest of the community regards them differently. “I had to look away and duck into empty classrooms whenever I saw a sign-up table,” said Katie Nicholson ’08, “when I went into the Union, I'd pretend to check my cell phone or something so that I didn’t have to make eye contact with the students at the table. It was even worse than that guy walking around asking whether or not people were registered to vote in North Carolina.”

Other students also feel pressure from students who were not officially involved with the Blood Drive. “If you don’t wear one of those ribbons on your arm by the end of the day, you might as well be wearing a neon sign that says ‘I Didn’t Give Blood,’” Gries added. At his first Blood Drive last year, Gries allowed himself to be pressured into giving blood by his hall-mates. Since then, he has been working to tell other students that they have a choice. “People treat it like a requirement for graduation. That’s wrong, and I don’t want others to have to live with the guilt I felt. I happen to like my blood right where it is—in my own body.”

Nicholson, after a week of dealing with her stigma, looked up the term for the fear of needles. “Aichmophobia is my new favorite word.” Many tried other approaches to avoiding the Red Cross. Jamie Douglas ’05, a volunteer at the sign-in desk on the first floor of the Union, recounted at least twenty different excuses given by students. A group of junior girls claimed to have traveled to Namibia last semester. One freshman said that he had eaten a hamburger in Europe over the summer, and so he might have mad cow disease. Another freshman explained that she had just gotten a tattoo in a private area of her body. Several students pointed out that they had AB+ blood, which meant their blood could go only to AB+ patients. Douglas’ favorite excuse, however, was that of his own roommate. “He comes by and tells me that he isn’t sure if he had unprotected sex on First Night Down or not. I reminded him that he definitely had not, but he still didn’t want to take the chance.”

The administration, while respecting students’ rights not to participate in any activity they do not wish, encouraged the entire community to “strongly consider the benefits to others when deciding to give blood.” Nicholson and Gries both agree that such phrasing is not only an endorsement of giving blood, but also a clear indication of the approval of one choice over another. The Union Board, in an effort to pacify the situation, plans to organize some kind of activity for the day of the next blood drive that will essentially be “something to do all day to avoid Alvarez Union and the ROTC.” Says Gries, “It’s a start, but I really think we need to do more than just avoid the Union.”

THE YOWL
Your Davidsonian Humor Section

Your YOWL FRIENDS ON THEFACEBOOK.COM:
Jeff Yeakel
Nate Bradshaw
Robbie Reynolds

Editor: Brendan Parets
Students with story suggestions or interested parties should contact the editor at [contact information].

Note: If you have been in a coma for the past six months, you should know that we now publish a super-condensed version of The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2004

Happy Parents Weekend! October 20, 2004

Naming opportunities prove popular in Chambers

After two long years, the renovations of Chambers were finally completed at the beginning of the fall semester. In order to pay for these renovations, the school has raised money by taking donations from individuals and corporations in exchange for the naming of halls and wings within the building. To commemorate the naming, large commemorative letters spelling out the donor’s name were placed on the archway of the hall entrances.

Initially, the college sold the names of each hall on all three floors of the building. Among the initial sponsors was Gerald Wachovia ’75. “I suppose I should have paid the extra hundred grand and got the initial of my first name put up,” said Wachovia. “Not only do people not realize it was me who donated the money, but even worse, it looks like the school has allowed a big banking corporation to sponsor it.”

Also donating was Brett Krand ’80, father of Mark Krand ’09. “It’s great that the school has allowed for smaller naming opportunities. I’m not in the position right now to lay out the kind of money that it takes to be one of the namesakes of the Alvarez or Knobloch Union. I’m just happy to have the Krand hall within the McCall wing of the Chambers building.”

Another improvement that students might have noticed is the new bell on top of Chambers. The bell, however, is one of the few things that have not been named after a donor. Even the urinals are sponsored in the new Chambers.The problem.” Few yet unnamed aspects of the new building. All the halls are currently named, as well as most of the classrooms. Donors have also claimed many other parts of the building for sponsoring. For example, all of the remaining classrooms have been sold out. These names, however, will not appear on the course catalog until the fall of 2005. Due to the unexpectedly expedient completion of the renovations, many donors did not get their contribution into the college in time to reserve a hall or classroom name though. In order to ensure that all who wished to help the college could, new naming opportunities were offered. The bricks outside the main entrance of Chambers will be sold off for inscription. In addition, the college plans to offer nameplates below the Chambers columns to the two highest bidders. The Belk family, consistently philanthropic towards Davidson College, was one such late donator. As some may have noticed, however, their generous gift allowed for the addition of a commemorative placard in their name inside every urinal in the building. Another new commemoration will be the Cannon Handicap Access Button, on the north side of the building. The closet on the south side of the second floor will now be known as the ‘Joel’s Grill Janitorial Closet,’ and the Chambers building will be cleaned by the Marlowe Family Building Services Staff. Even the courses are being named. Fall 2005 will see the first offering of Fuel Pizza presents Contemporary Political Theory and BB&T Introduction to Economics. Other courses that have already been endowed include Pepsi’s Intro to Psychology, Microsoft Finite Math, and ESPN presents Literary Analysis. “Fall 2005 will see the first offering of Fuel Pizza presents Contemporary Political Theory and BB&T Introduction to Economics.” Most students are apathetic about the naming trend, claiming that they mostly do not notice the new labels. Others see it as positive, as it increases the College’s endowment, allowing them to hire more professors, such as a professor in Arabic or Communications. Still, some students are offended by the development. Said Peter West ’05, “We are bombarded by advertisements everywhere we go, and now even within our hallowed halls of learning we are not safe. What’s next, Davidson College being renamed Time Warner College at Davidson?” Professor of Economics Troy Simms explained that advertising is a growing phenomenon in colleges, professional sports teams, cities, and even secondary schools. “Any time a company has a chance to advertise, or an individual has a chance to advance his or her legacy, a market gets created. With little opportunity cost, the organization has a chance to make a nice profit. Speaking of which, I’m sure the College could easily clear a couple hundred grand by selling the name of Alumni Field to TJ Maxx or tent duiwitl The Davidsonian Yankees hatred sweeps campus yet again For some students on campus, October means one thing only: baseball. For most, however, it means something slightly different: actively rooting for the Yankees to lose. The New York Yankees, World Series Champions on twenty-six different occasions out of ninety-nine total championships, are a team that many despise. In addition to winning over a quarter of the World Series ever played, New York has lost thirteen World Series, and has been eliminated from the playoffs four times. Each of those seventeen years of defeat for the Bronx Bombers has been a year of celebration at Davidson, going all the way back to the 1921 loss to the Giants. “How can you like them? They always win!” said an indignant James McMahan ‘08 as his entire 2nd Belk lounge nodded in agreement. Other comments from students around campus are all similar. “I hate Roger Clemens! I don’t want any team he ever played for to win!” exclaimed Greg Markus ’06. “Babe Ruth was my favorite player until he moved to the Yankees for more money,” Heidi Frizell ’05 explained. “I’m a Bears fan. How could I do anything but root against the Yankees?” answered Nikki Venadici ’07. And, as Peter Cillion ’05 asserted, “I always root for the underdog, and in this case they are the low budget Boston Red Sox.” The sentiment is all but unanimous across the campus. One of the few Yankees fans at Davidson, Graham Edwards ’08, was willing to give this comment, “I’m sorry, but I just happen to be a Yankee fan. It’s not like I’m jumping on the bandwagon. I remember the days of the early 90s, when they were terrible. Anyone here a Melido Perez fan?” Another Yankee fan, Sam Katch '07 claimed that the majority of Davidson students had no rational reason to hate the Yankees, “The kids here just hate the Yankees because it’s the cool thing to do. It’s not like they are huge fans of other baseball teams or something, because I never see anyone in the Union watching baseball unless the Yankees are playing. They wouldn't know Bernie Williams if he came up behind them and played a classical guitar concert.” Davidson has a history of attracting students who, if not Red Sox, Orioles, or National League fans, are at the very least Yankee-haters. The archives contain information regarding a sizable donation to the college’s endowment from Red Sox owner John Taylor in 1916—a mere two years before he needed to sell baseball legend George Herman “Babe” Ruth to the Yankees in order to finance a Broadway show. Evidently, the roots of Yankee hatred were sowed four years later, when Taylor’s son Roger Taylor matriculated at Davidson. Allegedly, the elder Taylor later donated a projector to be used in the precursor to the 900 Room under the stipulation that only news reels presenting the Yankees in a negative light could be shown. So, during the playoffs this year, the Alvarez Union and countless lounges across campus are filled with those who, while they may not watch a single game of baseball from May to September, will live and die by the fate of the Yankees. “I hate how Steinbrenner uses money,” Bob Bramwell ’06 said, “Why can’t he be like every other owner in the league and just have players who play because they love the game and not because they are getting millions of dollars?”