‘Tae Davinsontan rc After leading the women to an impressive third-place finish, first-year swim coach Tim Kelly was named CAA Women’s Coach of the Year. Kelly honored after women shatter records at CAA’s By ASHLEIGH FINN Staff Writer The swim teams finished their season on an extraordinary high. The Wildcats came away from the recent four-day Colonial Athletic Association Championship with 12 new school records, a 3rd-place finish for the women, and a Coach of the Year Award. The Wildcats managed to accumulate more points in this one championship than they have over the past five years at CAA’s. The women ended the meet in third place, with a total of 497 points. The men placed eighth out of 10 with a total of 212 points. Davidson’s new head coach, Tim Kelly, was honored with the Women’s Coach of the Year award. The women’s outstanding performance can be attributed to their motivation and determination to place in the top three at this year’s conference. The third-place finish is a stark contrast from four years ago, when the ’Cats’ senior girls have faint memories of placing dead last. The women’s records and scores show incredible versatility and depth within the team. Standout Eli Trefzger ’07 led the way for underclassmen, smashing three school records in the 500 and 1650 free with times of 5:04.51 and 17:17.81, respectively. Her time in the 1650 was over 15 seconds faster than her previous record. Megan Hollar ’06, CAA’s 2003 recipient of Freshman of the Year, reinforced her claim as one of the best breaststrokers in the conference in her victory in the 100 breast, with a time of 1:04.34. Hollar’s time is now number three in the Davidson Top 10 All-Time Best Performances in the event. Hollar also swam to third in the 200 breast and placed second in the 200 individual medley. She closed out the meet by participating in the women’s 400 free relay team with a new school record. The relay team consisting of Hollar, Brigit Barry ’07, Kristen Shields ’06, and Vanessa Witt ’04 placed fourth overall with a time of 3:33.28. The juniors and seniors went headstrong into the championship, determined to finally gain recognition from their rivals. Trisha Blackwell ’05 and Megan Perez ’05 showed an impressive comeback after a semester abroad in the fall. Blackwell made top-eight finals in the 200 back and top sixteen in the 100 back. Perez went a lifetime-best in the 100 fly with a time of 59.82. Sara Laws ’04 ended her outstanding four-year Davidson career with a second-place finish in her last event of the conference, the 200 back. Carrie Rafer ’04 and Leslie Cook ’04 placed in the top eight in the 200 back as well, with a sixth and seventh place finish, respectively. Witt set a new Davidson record in the 200 fly with a time of 2:07.45. Captain Ashley Cain ’04 and Trefzger followed with a fifth and sixth place finish. When asked about the success of the women this past season and at the CAA’s, Cain commented, “Over the course of the year the women’s swim team has reached and far surpassed many of our goals. We finished with a winning record, raised our average GPA, became a closer and more unified team, and finished third in the CAA conference.” Captain Charlie Hunter ’04 led the men’s team to an eighth-place finish. His time of 52.15 in the 100 fly earned him a placement in the top eight as well as a new school record. Hunter took fifth in the 200 back with a time of 1:52.90 and helped the 400 free relay team to a seventh-place finish. The relay team consisting of Brad Poole ’06, Robert Koch ’04, and Steve Tolson ’06 swam a time of 3:09.09, over five seconds faster than their seeded time. Solo diver Chris Wrobeleski ’05 earned a 10th-place finish in the three-meter board finals and a 7th-place in the one-meter, scoring points for the diving team. Coach Kelly recognized the team has accomplished more this past season and in the recent CAA meet than any previous Davidson team. The coaching staff attributes the success to the “direct result of focusing on the process and preparation of the events and not on the end result.” The captains also believe that the team’s unity and unanimous determination throughout the meet contributed to their overall success. As Carrie Rafer ’04 comments, “Other coaches during the conference commented that they have never seen the Davidson girls look as unified or swim as fast. Tim and the coaching staff had a lot to do with our improvement.” In fact, Coach Tim Kelly’s strong leadership in his first-ever conference meet was recognized by the CAA with the Women’s Coach of the Year award. When asked about his recognition, Kelly responded,“It was a truly nice and surprising honor, but as any coach will tell you, you are only as good as your athletes perform. This was a team award. When you have dedicated assistant coaches like Jacqui McLaughlin, Mark Dell, and James Messer, the best diving coaches in the conference, and your swimmers and divers believe in themselves, you have the right combination to get that recognition.” Kelly explicitly thanked the nine senior women and four senior men for their leadership both in and out of the water this season: “They were a big part in the success of the teams and have all been a great help to me in my first year as head coach here at Davidson.” He believes that “next year’s team will continue to build upon this past season’s success.”

SPORTS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2004

Opponents beware: ‘Winters is on his way
By WALKER SAIK
Senior Staff Writer

In case you missed the memo, TPS reports are out of the picture. And Brendan Winters is in it. Having just reeled in SoCon Player of the Week for his 27 and 23 point efforts against Furman and Georgia Southern, respectively, Winters is hot on the move. He’s on the table for SoCon Player of the Year, and he’s good to go for the SoCon Tournament coming up shortly.

But what drives this fiery, intimidating player to his young success? “Proving everyone wrong,” says the 6’5” sophomore from Milwaukee who credits Coach McKillop as the first person to truly believe in him. “Every day, I’m out to prove everyone wrong [for doubting], so I can shove it in their face a little bit.”

Winters turned some heads last year when he took the role as one of the freshmen trio consisting of Ian Johnson, Matt McKillop, and Winters — who saw significant playing time. Averaging 12.4 points per game, he earned a spot on the conference all-freshmen team. But now is now, and Winters isn’t wasting any time moving up the ladder. He knows his goals, and he’s ready to own up to opponents who try to get in his way. “I won’t lie and say I want to be a good or an ok player. I want to be a great player. That’s what’s driving me. I want to be great.”

But don’t forget his teammates. Winters credits his aggressive play to their toughness. “Any guy on the team, if he goes down with some sort of injury, whether minor or major, and comes back, everybody feeds off that energy,” he says, citing an instance where Johnson left practice to get stitches and immediately returned ready to play. “Every guy on this team has a lot of heart... and when you’ve got tough guys like that, you breed so much confidence in your teammates.”

And talking to him about the early-season troubles, it’s pretty obvious that Davidson is out of its funk and ready to blow stuff up. The road fears are gone, and the squad is ready to head to Charleston with full confidence, no matter how they’re seeded. “We did have the monkey on our back of not winning a road game, but once we got that road win at The Citadel, we got the monkey off our back and from there we started winning. Now it’s business as usual.”

What about the ugly start to the season? You know, those 20-point losses on national television? Could Winters see the positive in that? Yup. “At the beginning of the year, we had to learn how to play with each other while we got our butts kicked by these top-25 teams. But it was only a matter of time before we started winning... and the schedule is definitely going to help in the end, so I definitely wouldn’t take it back for anything.”

The fact is, Winters is a sophomore, but he plays and acts like a senior. His grit, passion, intelligence, and class complement well a team that builds itself around these qualities. See Logan Kosmalski ’05 or Kenny Grant ’06 or Nick Booker ’05 or anyone else who steps foot on the court in a Davidson jersey. These guys play tough, and Winters is no different.

Think back to the Georgia Southern game. Winters got gashed right above his eye just after tip-off and left the game to get examined. Returning with a band-aid, Winters got two more shots there, having to leave for brief moments each time. So he backed off after that, right? Took the game off, right? Right... if you call 23 points and six boards backing off.

Winters does have at least one last message, though, for his opponents: “We’re on a roll, and I wouldn’t want to be a lot of other teams that’ll have to face us come tournament time.” Few would.