14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Wednesday, March 31, 2004

Super sophs lead the team in most offensive categories

The surge of talented underclassmen continues with Zage '07 and Crissey '07

By Wilson McCrory
Senior Staff Writer

In 2003, the baseball team sported only two players who batted over .300 for the season: right fielder Sam Navarro '05 at .329 and second baseman Eli Benefield '05 at .301. Those two figured to be the leaders of the young 2004 squad as well, which features only three seniors on the roster.

Unfortunately, Navarro and Benefield have struggled to recapture their sophomore form, as each has failed to reach the .300 mark behind the plate this year. The Wildcat line-up has not missed a beat, however, as the 2004 squad has found production from other, younger areas.

This year's team features four players that have batted over .300 for the season, double last year's total, but that list is headed by three sophomores and a junior, none of whom batted over .250 in 2003.

In particular, sophomores Alex Entrekin, Jay Heafner, and Ronnie Shore have thrived in their everyday roles, leading the stat sheet for the Wildcats with .364, .333, and .335 averages at the plate, respectively. Each saw extensive playing time last year and was expected to take on more of a role, but it would have been hard to predict such a jump in performance for the new season.

Entrekin, for example, has seen his average sky-rocket by more than 150 points and has proved to be a clutch-hitter, with two game-winning hits and a 17-game hit streak to his credit already.

"You have to adjust to the speed of the pitching and quality of play [as a younger player]... but this team has worked really hard to improve," he notes. "A lot of the younger guys have really stepped up this year, with us having only three seniors on the team."

Along with the sophomores, a talented group of freshmen has also emerged, both in starting roles and in filling in the depth of this young Wildcat team. Gregory Zage, who can play in the outfield and at first base, has been the offensive hero of late, hitting the game-clinching home run in the win against Wake Forest and a two-run homer against Western Carolina in this past weekend's loss. Zage's recent offensive explosion has left him with a .600 slugging percentage, tops on the team by almost 150 points.

"I hoped, going into the season, to get some [playing] time, but I did not plan on playing immediately," Zage says. "I felt that some time would be needed so that I could adjust to how the college game is played before I saw more than occasional playing time.

Alex Entrekin '06 paces the team in RBI (15).

"I felt that I had had some good experience prior to college, but I knew that I would need to give myself time to adjust to the game, especially with regards to pitchers' off-speed stuff. I had no idea how I was going to perform prior to opening day. I had just hoped to contribute when I had the chance."

Freshmen Alden Crissey and Rob Wilson have also seen significant playing time, with the two sporting .270 and .263 averages, respectively.

Furthermore, while the pitching staff is primarily dominated by upperclassmen, including senior captains Matt Dellinger and Brian Akin, Wilson, Matt Knight '07, Heafner, and Matt Meade '06 have all provided much-needed depth in both starter and reliever roles.

Wilson, in particular, has stepped forward to take the fourth spot in the Wildcats' starting rotation, sporting a 3-2 record and a 4.18 E.R.A. over 23 innings this season.

He earned many accolades at local Myers Park High School as a senior last year and helped lead the Mustangs to a State Finals berth, but he knew "that the transition would be tough both physically and psychologically.

"It's more physical and much faster at this level, and the workload on and off the field is so much more than it was in high school," Wilson said.

Still, Wilson came into the season expecting to produce early on, saying, "My goal was to start all along, as I think it is for everyone, and we were all competing throughout the fall and winter for those spots... You can never be completely satisfied with how you play, but I've been pretty happy with my play so far this year."

While the youthful emergence of this team has been a pleasant surprise, its relative inexperience has also contributed to an inconsistent start, with victories over ACC foes Wake Forest and Duke but an overall record below .500 at 9-14. Nevertheless, despite the struggles that often accompany a young team, that youth has the team excited for the future of the program, one that has languished at the bottom of the SoCon standings in recent years.

With only three seniors on the current roster, and a precocious group of sophomores and freshmen, the main nucleus of this team will remain together for several years.

As Wilson says, that "bodes well for the future" of this program.

photos courtesy of Sports Information

Betlacino's

WOOD FIRED PIZZA

Davidson College Bookstore

Davidson would like to thank the following sponsors for their support of Wildcat Red and the fundraiser for Ada Jenkins

INDIAN CUISINE

MAY 2001 * 16 SCREENS * ALL STADIUM

TURN LEFT, 1.4 MI. ON RIGHT