THE DAVIDSONIAN

On Sports

PICKS OF Wola W EIBIK

By Wilson McCrory
Staff Writer

As Jake Delhomme downed the ball for the final time against the Philadelphia Eagles and the clock reached all zeros, I still couldn’t believe what was happening; in dominating fashion, the Carolina Panthers were going to the Super Bowl. The Panthers, the same team that had gone 1-15 only two short seasons ago, had beaten Bill Parcells, the Greatest Show on Turf, and Donovan McNabb in successive weeks and would be going to The Game in Houston, TX. With them, they would also bring a sparkling new bandwagon, stuffed to the brim with a throng of “fans.”

Since Carolina’s opening-round playoff victory against the Dallas Cowboys in early January, the Panthers’ fan base has grown considerably. The Sports Authority and Dick’s Sporting Goods have been flooded with young and old alike, and shoppers have left with a freshly printed jersey of Julius Peppers, Stephen Davis, or Delhomme. At the very least, they leave with a new Panther sweatshirt or hat. Suddenly, all of the talk throughout the region has been diverted from ACC basketball for five minutes. Thousands of fans now flock to downtown Charlotte simply to send the Panthers off to Houston.

By Jackson Herlong
Staff Writer

The only way I could see the Panthers’ fans getting any more grief from this school’s population is if the New England Patriots weren't in the Super Bowl. For all the resentment tossed at Panthers fans from around this campus, you’d think Davidson was located in New York or something, not twenty minutes down the road from Ericsson (now Bank of America) Stadium. The Carolina Panthers, lovingly referred to by the media as the “Cardiac Cats,” have been on Fox almost every weekend here at school, so chances are you’ve seen them play at least once if you go to school here. There are a lot of Carolinians at school here at Davidson, and I count myself among their number. The statement that Panthers fans are all fair-weather fans is not a fair assessment; my hometown of Greenville, SC, follows the Panthers as closely as anyone from Virginia or Maryland follows the Redskins, or someone from Maine follows the Red Sox. I think that a lot of this resentment towards Panthers fans comes because no one expected them to be competitive this season, let alone make it to the Super Bowl. Everyone else is just jealous and looking for ways to discredit the Super Bowl underdogs.

By Patrick Braxton-Andrew
Guest Contributor

As a Panthers fan, I have no problem being a seven-point underdog to the Pats, a proven championship contender. What is killing me are all the idiot media members and other football “experts,” like those among any given college student body, who continue to deny the Panthers even a tiny sliver of credit. Is it just that these morons can’t swallow their pride and admit that we’re the better team? Sadly, that seems like the only logical answer. Yes, Carolina was 1-15 two years ago. But this year’s team is obviously a different one, in both character and personnel, which now wins close games instead of squandering countless victories. Early in the season, I wouldn’t have been so adamant in my defense of the Panthers against doubters, but they won their division. This didn’t silence the critics, though, despite the fact that the Panthers outplayed and out-coached their opponents all season long.

Entering the playoffs, the Panthers continued to be ripped by the media and casual observers alike, claiming that the team’s supporters are no match for the ever-loyal fans of St. Louis, Philly, and Boston, and that they don’t really deserve to revel in the newfound success of their franchise. And for the most part, those critics are right. But the bandwagon fans can’t truly enjoy this success as much as those of us who have weathered the losing, the six years without even a sniff of the postseason. For the most part, my teams have all found winning to come relatively easily. The Tar Heels, Braves, and Charlotte Hornets of old all enjoyed at least moderate success since I have followed them. Each is a fixture in the postseason, and the only question is whether a championship is in the cards in a given year. In 1996, when the Panthers went to the NFC championship against Green Bay after a 12-4 season in only their second year of existence, I thought they too would enjoy similar success. But after going 34-62 over the next six years, I learned that wasn’t the case. I learned to enjoy every victory, whether it had playoff implications or not, because I knew how hard they were to come by. Despite our losing ways, I looked forward to every Sunday contest and was optimistic that “They’re not going to win because their fans don’t really care that much about their team, they’re just happy they’re winning.” So what? It’s okay to be a passive fan, just as much as it’s okay to be a die-hard fan. Trust me, your team isn’t going to win or lose any game based on how much YOU know about how many pounds per lineman your offensive line is giving up that day. They won’t win because of any long-standing game-day traditions. The Panthers are one of the youngest teams in the NFL, and in a city that has suffered a considerable amount in recent years, it’s a wonder that the Panthers have any fans at all. Take Rae Carruth, the former Panther who killed his pregnant girlfriend.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

and hid from the FBI in the trunk of his car. George Shinn, the owner of the Hornets, took his team and ran when the city shunned him after his sexual harassment lawsuit. Kerry Collins, the same quarterback who proclaimed the Panthers as “the new dynasty” after they reached the NFC championship game in their second season, was run out of town after drinking problems and alleged racism alienated him from his team and fan base. Bobby Phills, one of the favorite players on the Hornets, was killed while street racing with teammate David Wesley outside the Charlotte Coliseum. I know, I know... this doesn’t compare to BANS used in their role as the underdog, but in the Wildcard round they pulverized the Dallas Cowboys with a stifling defense and suddenly explosive offense. But by the media response, you would have thought that the Panthers were simply a figment of the collective imagination of those in the Carolinas. “The Who? They did what?” Would a victory the next week over the heavily favored Rams help that? Nope. Despite the fact that the Panthers earned a huge upset, the focus of the following week was Mike Martz’s play-calling at the end of regulation. Apparently, the so-called “experts” had another mental lapse and forgot about the several interceptions that Bulger had thrown. Again, the Panthers were given no credit for their victory. They were 11 points ahead until a late Rams flurry tied the game. And the Rams weren’t the only team to miss a potential game-winning field goal. Next up, Philly. “A sure loss for the Panthers.” “Not a chance.” “Can’t stop McNabb.” Except once again the Panthers’ defense dominated. In fact, it was as dominating a performance as they have produced all year. The offense was also strong, scoring needed touchdowns and possessing the ball. But as usual, there is some detail for the media and everyone else to harp on, and this week it was the Panthers turning McNabb into McScab. Yes, McNabb was initially sacked on the now infamous play, as replays revealed, but Greg Favors was simply doing his job when he continued playing and hit the fallen McNabb. As the play had not yet been blown dead, Favors had no way to know that McNabb was down. For Favors to let him lay there untouched would have been completely insane, as anyone watching the playoffs has seen what can happen if a fallen player is not tagged.

The rest of the nation still wants to explain the Panthers season with one word: luck. If continually beating opponents on both sides of the ball, often as an underdog, is luck, then, yes, luck is the right word. All year, the rest of the nation has waited for the Panthers to stumble so they could turn to the Carolinas and say “We told you so.” Now it’s our turn to laugh and say “We told YOU so.”

When the Panthers were nowhere to be found on TV in Chattanooga, TN, I would sit at my computer and listen to the internet radio broadcast, then fastidiously watch the highlights later in the day just to catch a glimpse of my team. The only time I questioned my devotion to the Panthers came just over two years ago, on a dreary January day, as the Panthers finished out their 1-15 campaign in Ericsson Stadium. A few weeks later, I hardly even noticed as that Tom Brady-led New England Patriots team marched on to Super Bowl victory. In only a matter of days, the Panthers will have a chance to avenge that ultimate blemish and become the 2004 version of that same Pats team. The Panthers too sport an unheralded quarterback in his first year as a starter, a defense that is recognized among the league’s best, and a defensive-coordinator-turned-coach that is quickly turning heads as one of the best tacticians in the game. Fans new and old will soon don their favorite Panthers regalia, cheer wildly for Delhomme, Davis, Steve Smith, and Mike Minter, and enjoy the Panthers’ first-ever appearance in the Super Bowl. But it is those who have stuck around for both the struggle and the glory that will truly reap the rewards of Sunday evening.

All Panthers fans welcome the “Curse of the Bambino” or whatever you Red Sox fans call it. But Charlotte finally has something to cheer about. So instead of dumping on the fans for being apathetic during the Panthers’ woeful seasons up until this point, jump on the bandwagon. There’s room for plenty more, and us “die-hard” Panthers fans (I was at the team’s first game ever, vs. the Jacksonville Jaguars at Clemson University) aren’t nearly as exclusive a club as those Bostonians. When I came to this school, I was amazed at how many Red Sox hats there were at a school in North Carolina. Those things are almost as ubiquitous here as North Face fleeces or Nalgene bottles. I was really dumbfounded by this, until I realized that the school assigned these hats to the losers. Just kidding. I actually love Boston, but who wants a team from Boston to win a championship again, anyway? Even Boston fans, come on. That’d take away from the city’s “loser-chic” charm. Honestly, if you’re a New England fan, you should want your team to lose. If they win, you won’t have much to complain about, and then there will be this gaping hole in your lives. But seriously, I’m excited for a great game on Sunday, and I won’t be aggravated by any “bandwagoners” rooting for my team.