SPORTS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2004

PEER'S PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat game of the week: Baseball vs. Georgetown
Saturday & Sunday at 1 p.m.

Well, I tried to get everyone excited last week about the return to the baseball diamond, but unfortunately, the weather failed us. So let’s try it again. Barring any natural disasters, baseball will return to Davidson this coming weekend in a two-game series against Georgetown. Come see the diving grabs in the outfield, the beautifully turned 6-4-3 double plays, and the crack of the bat as the Wildcats take the field.

Outside the Den: Sacramento Kings vs. Minnesota T’wolves
Thursday at 7:30 p.m. on TNT

The two best teams in the league square off shortly after the All-Star break. Sacramento leads by a mere one game in the standings, having played two less than Minny and also having two fewer losses. With Webber still out, look for KG to make a statement about his case for MVP by posterizing Brad Miller and (possibly) winning the game single-handedly.

While Red Sox fans insist on lamenting about the past, they apparently lack the faculty of short-term memory. The entire New England area has united in denouncing the Yankees for the Alex Rodriguez deal (the recent one, not the one where the Sox embarrassed themselves), calling George Steinbrenner the destroyer of baseball and his Yankees the Evil Empire. Maybe denial from the embarrassment of that first A-Rod deal has forced Boston fans to forget one thing: the Red Sox were a part of it. In fact, they were the ones who were supposed to get Rodriguez. The Beantown babies are criticizing the Yankees for doing the very same thing they tried so hard to accomplish a couple of months ago. The only difference is the Yanks were actually able to pull it off.

That seems to be the real complaint of Boston fans: the Yankees do what the Red Sox wish they could. They sign the best players, make the biggest deals, and win the most games. Not that Boston doesn’t try. Second in the headlines and second in the AL last year. This all goes nicely with the second-highest payroll in the league. Despite the fact that their payroll is bigger than all the teams in baseball besides the Yankees, Red Sox fans don’t hesitate to shout about the evils of big money in baseball. They claim the Yankees are trying to buy another championship by successfully adding the highest-paid player in the game to their team. Manny Ramirez has the second-richest contract. Both teams are trying to do the same things: get the best players and win the most games. The Yankees, as they demonstrated again last season and this winter, are just better at it. And so the Sox are stuck without A-Rod and without anyone to blame but themselves. But that’s not about to happen.

Ben Affleck, the epitome of Boston whining, recently described George Steinbrenner as the center of evil in the universe after being asked about the trade. He went on to sarcastically claim that the Yankees might eventually just buy everyone in the league. They might, but they’ll have to beat out the Red Sox again to do it.

Brutus “The Barber” Beefcake - do you remember this guy? Let me refresh your memory. The Barber was known in the prestigious WWF of the eighties for cutting opponents’ hair after pinning them in the ring. Teamed with Greg “The Hammer” Valentine to form the Dream Team, he won the 1985 WWE Tag Team title. A good friend of Hulk Hogan, this athletic superhero, whose real name is Ed Leslie, is making headlines once again. The Barber has traded in his wrestling stardom for a part-time job with the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority; and his talc powder for a similar-looking substance. Investigators must have mistaken the Barber for WCW wrestler Brian Knobbs, aka “the Terrorist,” when they feared the powder to be anthrax. Luckily, it was just cocaine, and Ed has cooperated nicely with police. He has entered rehab.

Euro 2004 is the second-largest soccer tournament on the world stage next to the World Cup. A sixteen-team tournament consisting of the best national teams in Europe, it...

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Columnist

Valentine’s Day, by definition, is all about love. But, let me tell you, no one from Boston was feeling the love on Saturday. Riding shotgun around 6 p.m. on Saturday evening, I received a call from back home. Had I been driving, the car would have surely gone off the road. At that very moment, ESPN was reporting that Alex Rodriguez, widely regarded as the best player in baseball, was being shipped to the Yankees for Alfonso Soriano and some minor-league pitcher. For those not privy to the current state of Major League Baseball, this is like trading a Porsche for a Dodge Dart and a can of Quaker State. But it’s not so much the absurdity of the trade that bothers us Red Sox fans; it’s that Rodriguez was ours—or so it seemed.Late December, in a deal that could’ve given so many Bostonians their greatest Christmas present, the Red Sox offered to send Manny Ramirez to Texas in exchange for Rodriguez. By some cruel twist of fate, however, the negotiations fell apart, and a month later the Rangers named A-Rod their team captain, seemingly securing his place in Texas for the next several years.

Bay Transportation Authority plays for the right to the crown of the continent and will be held in Portugal this June and July. Tournament officials have added a new format for the fans. Adjustments are being made to try and correct the problem from Euro 2000, when 1000 fans were arrested, mostly those hailing from England. Upon arriving at the stadiums this summer, fans that look slightly intoxicated will have to pass a Breathalyzer test. If test results exceed the legal driving limit, spectators will be turned away and not allowed into the game. Who would ever have thought going to one of the greatest tournaments in the world representing the best players in its sport and attending a high school dance would have something in common?

Forty million people missed Janet’s tease during this year’s Super Bowl halftime. Poor souls? Not exactly. These lucky lads (and some lasses) were too focused on pay-per-view’s Lingerie Bowl. The game involved models wearing skimpy lingerie while playing football. The event was so popular, it has sparked a new league: The Lingerie Football League, which will consist of four teams and play league matches for a chance to play during next year’s Super Bowl halftime. Making up the league are the Chicago Passion, Los Angeles Dream, New York Euphoria, and Dallas Desire. Are these football teams, or a list of the country’s top strip clubs?

As you may know, Alex Rodriguez has been traded to the Yankees for Alfonso Soriano and a player to be named. A-Rod will likely play third base so Derek Jeter can stay at shortstop. The Yankees picked up the remaining years on his previous contract with the Rangers, consisting of roughly $115 million over the next six years. So where did the Red Sox go wrong in trying to obtain the greatest player in baseball? The Sox must not have offered him a suite in the hotel for road games and permission to put a link to his personal site on their web page, both included in his deal with the Yankees.

It should come as no surprise, then, that no one in New England saw this whole Rodriguez-to-New York thing coming. We were just waiting for Spring Training to begin, happy to have had what many are calling the best off-season of any other team, acquiring both Curt Schilling and Keith Foulke and thus creating what on paper looks like the best pitching staff in baseball. What’s more, the Yankees had lost their two best pitchers in Roger Clemens and Andy Pettitte, who both went to Houston, and looked capable of not making the playoffs for the first time since Saved by the Bell was producing the College Years (1995). For so many Bostonians and baseball fans in general, this trade was more surprising than discovering Maggie shot Mr. Burns. The sad thing is we all should have seen it coming because, let’s face it, we’re talking about the New York Yankees. Many Sox fans agree with Ben Affleck, who recently said, “You know, George Steinbrenner is the center of evil in the Universe.” Sure, Steinbrenner has played the role of rich kid with no friends, buying his way into the hearts of New Yorkers with his scary lineups and formidable pitching staffs, which usually combine to produce World Series rings.

I’m convinced, however, that there is a bigger culprit here, and that he doesn’t even know it. Aaron Boone had arguably the worst ALCS of anyone on either the Yankees or Red Sox. There were times when Boone was our best player. With all those errors and strikeouts, Boone was helping Sox fans forget all about Bill Buckner. But then, of course, he goes yard in the bottom of the 11th to become King of the Bronx, if only for a night. (And no, it was no consolation that the Yanks lost the Series; for Boston, there was no Series). You can blame Grady Little and curse Babe Ruth, but it was Boone’s shot over the left field fence that sent an arrow through the heart of Red Sox nation. And now this: sometime over the last two weeks Boone went down with a knee injury in a game of pick-up basketball. So now the Yanks need a third baseman. Logically, of course, they elect to trade for the best shortstop in the game. This is like the Lakers trading for Yao Ming and playing him at point guard. And while the whole chain reaction may be a coincidence, there certainly is a new enemy in Boston right now. The only problem is Aaron Boone has no idea it’s him.

When it comes down to it, though, this may be the most important fact of all: Alex Rodriguez wears number three. So did a man named George Herman Ruth.