Ece '04 portraying Jack, the troubled uncle who returned from Africa.

Despite strong cast, weak script hounds ‘Lughnasa’

By Steve KALISKI
Senior Staff Writer

I don’t know if you could classify “Dancing at Lughnasa,” the Theatre Department’s spring main-stage play, as an against-all-odds production. After all, Brian Friel’s acclaimed 1992 work touts both a Tony Award and a Meryl Streep film adaptation on its impressive resume. And yet, as I crept into a routine run-through last Friday night, I certainly had my doubts. Subtlety and student theatre often don’t mix, and with the potentially unstable combination of an Italian director, mostly gumshoe actors, and a distinctly Irish 1930s setting, this project seemed doomed from the start.

The doubts, for the most part, turned out to be unfounded. With “Dancing at Lughnasa,” the Theatre Department and director Roberto Prestigiacomo have assembled an elegant and sophisticated rendering of this renowned play. Beautifully produced and proficiently acted, “Lughnasa” should offer the Davidson community a satisfying evening of drama.

Melancholy and nostalgic, this play closely resembles Tennessee Williams’s “The Glass Menagerie” in both tone and structure. It is told through the eyes of Michael (Ryan Creighan ’07), a young man who vividly recalls the tumultuous events of the summer of 1936, a time in which his closely knit family began to fall apart. Raised by his mother Chris (Jax Lacaire ’07) and her four sisters (Lisa Burr ’05, Tammy Ivins ’07, Liz Sykes ’04, Amy Trainor ’07), Michael enjoys a childhood free of outside tension. However, when both his troubled uncle Jack (Cahit Ece ’04) and his playful father Gerry (Andrew Reichel ’06, a few octaves away from Pierce Brosnan territory) return to the family’s home, old memories open new wounds, testing the strength of Michael’s loved ones.

Returning from extended missionary work in a Ugandan leper colony, Jack battles with both his health and his sense of self, which identifies far more with Africa than with Ireland. Also, the smug Gerry mounts a serious campaign at winning Chris’s hand in marriage, something that arouses deep anxiety within the rest of the family. The sisters believe that they have enough to worry about, especially with the vulnerable emotional state of Rose (Trainor).

Given the acclaim of the source material, most of the weaknesses in the production are consequences of weaknesses in the script. Friel writes with almost frustrating restraint, implying much but showing very little. In fact, he leaves most of the high drama to Michael’s monologues, which ultimately provide a depressing “Where are they now?” glimpse of all of the characters.

Although the performances are quite skilled all around, a couple of the actresses create particularly lasting impressions. As the eldest sister Kate, Burr mixes her role with appropriate amounts of kindness and genuine concern for her sisters. In a relatively smaller role, Trainor masters the required understatement of the trapped, yearning Rose. In a scene in which Burr interrogates Trainor, these two women ignite the truest suspense in the entire play.

The good sport award goes to Creighan for his earnest portrayal of the omnipresent narrator. Through a theatrical convention that poorly mimics the stage manager from Thornton Wilder’s “Our Town,” Creighan unnecessarily remains on stage for the entire show. A round of applause to him for holding character for the duration of this inexplicable and distracting staging choice, which assumes that the audience is not smart enough to remember that this play is actually a slice of Michael’s memory. Again, this happens at no fault of the cast and crew. Prestigiacomo nobly and professionally leads the ensemble through this intermittently moving drama, and the result is about as good as “Lughnasa” can get.

Expectedly, Joe Gardner’s set design is absolutely enchanting. Rich with detail and geographically specific, the sprawling stage manages to be both intimate and vast at the same time. Note: although the title includes the word “dancing,” don’t expect to see the sisters launch into “Riverdance” mode. The few times when these ladies do break it down are entertaining but not particularly Michael Flatley-caliber.

“Dancing at Lughnasa” runs March 17-20 at 8:00 and March 21 at 2:00 in...the Duke Family Performance Hall.

Arts & LIVING
WEDNESDAY, March 17, 2004

Figure-study elevates the body beyond normal view
By HANNAH NOLL
Special Contributor

Every Wednesday night from 8 to 10 p.m., in the VAC drawing studio, the flesh of our brethren is exposed in the name of high art. For $5 a session (an excellent deal), students and faculty can study and draw from a live and kicking model. On a larger campus, figure study models would probably go unrecognized, yet in this pint-sized community, the model may be someone you know—a chain smoker or churchgoer. As off-putting as this may seem to a newcomer, the maturity of the models and students, along with the professional atmosphere of the sessions, provide an incredibly productive and rewarding studio art opportunity.

Models are made comfortable with an optional space heater, pillow, and control over musical selection. Anyone with an interest in drawing from life is encouraged to come to this very informal drawing session. From cave paintings to Picassos, the human figure has been a critical study (in Western art) for great, mediocre, and aspiring artists. The complexity of the human figure provides endless outlets and challenges for the artist to explore. Proportion and perspective are skills which can be first mastered in the figure and explored further in representational and abstract works. Furthermore, the longer you study the figure, the more he/she becomes less of a person and more of a series of lights and darks, sharps and blurs, curves and straights. Texture and tonality begin to define a figure more so than outline or precise representation. With these skills developed, an artist can approach any subject.

This is not to say, however, that character or personality does not emerge from a figure into a drawing. Every subject (whether human or not) has an identity or charm to it, and this is what makes new weekly models an exciting investigation for the draughtsman. Every person has a different approach to drawing the model—some focus on a three by three inch square patch of the body, while others attempt to capture the whole figure in precise detail. Either way, the figure inspires. An animate object is easier to bring to life than an inanimate object. Viewers seem also to respond most positively to artworks which feature human figures or anthropomorphized shapes. Perhaps all we really want to see and draw is ourselves, but I think more likely we see in nature this animation, and it is satisfying to see that interpreted through art.

Traditionally, the term ‘nude’ is applied to academic art which depicts the human figure in a state of classical splendor—these figures couldn’t be imagined in clothes; they are Greek gods, Venuses, and Zeuses. A person who is ‘naked’ is aware or embarrassed by an element of surprise—the startling reality that someone is watching them. We turn a spotlight on the nude, but dim the lights for the naked.

In recent travels, I have pieced together a flesh mosaic from Ft. Lauderdale flashers to Charlotte strippers. As beautiful as these bodies may be, the intent of both model (we’ll kindly grant them this undeserving title) and participating viewer is about something other than art or education (or anything of value for that matter), and more about money, attention, and sick fetishistic pleasure (on behalf of the viewer). Participants, or oglers, at a strip club reduce the stripper (or model) to an object, but not one which is celebrated; instead, one which debases and perverts the human body and the individual. The participants or artists in a figure study elevate the model through an intelligent study and appreciation of the human body. I find that most figure study models are interested and curious about the artworks they inspire.

VAC figure study sessions are a little-known, yet important extracurricular activity (which includes music, popcorn, and full frontal nudity).

Francisco Goya’s ‘Clothed Maja’ painted in 1797.

Snapshots of Davidson
William High roughs it on a Davidson Outdoors trip.