4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2004

Cable, from page 1

“RLO certainly wants to support the academic mission of the college,” said Associate Dean of Students and Director of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano. “On the other hand, we were really happy to be able to provide this because students complained to us all the time that they didn’t have it. We do try to provide services that students want.”

The results of the survey are not surprising to SGA senator Jack Hubbard ’06.

Hubbard chaired an ad hoc committee last year devoted to the passage of the SGA Cable Resolution.

“I think that the type of people Davidson admits are responsible enough to handle watching TV,” Hubbard said. “It’s not something novel; we’ve had it in our homes all our lives. I think that students are acting responsibly, and they’re being treated like adults. That’s a good thing.”

Although the issue of bringing cable TV into dorms surfaced years ago and was periodically discussed among students, no action was taken until 2003.

Then, last year, SGA drafted a cable resolution and conducted a survey that determined that there was enough student interest in bringing cable TV to dorm rooms to warrant the extra costs of providing it.

“Over the years that we had been talking about it, more and more students had cable TV in their bedrooms at home and were accustomed to that,” Marsicano said. “Also, we were overcrowded and were using lounges as rooms.”

The resolution was debated within the Committee of Campus and Religious Life, a group of students, faculty, and staff who meet regularly to advise the president.

The CCRL eventually sent a recommendation to President Bobby Vagt that cable TV be allowed in dorm rooms.

Vagt agreed to this resolution in January 2004.

Although the majority of students and staff supported the decision to bring cable TV into residence halls, there were nevertheless some people who objected to the passage of the cable resolution.

Assistant Dean of Community Service Ruth Pittard addressed the CCRL and spoke out against the resolution.

“First of all, this is college, and the main thing you do in college is read,” Pittard said. “TV takes away from that. I am certainly not against watching TV, but I think that having it in rooms is too tempting.

“Having it in rooms makes it too solitary and takes away from community. There are lots of other things you can do in your life rather than sitting passively in front of the TV, especially in college.”

Marsicano believes that it is too soon to assess the effects of cable TV in dorms on community life among students.

“At the end of the year, it will be interesting to do some research into that and talk to hall counselors to see how their hall operated compared to the one they were on as freshmen,” Marsicano said. “My impression so far has been that it has not made a big difference.”

RLO and SGA are now focusing on developing the two cable TV stations that are allotted for Davidson programming.

The stations may be used in the future to broadcast Davidson games, SGA meetings, speeches by guest lecturers, and even movies provided by RLO.

Christina Boye ’06 is the SGA representative on a new committee composed of representatives from ITS, the physical plant, and RLO that will decide how to use the two stations.

“Maybe with announcements, the Crier, and the social calendar. My committee, the RLO committee, is investigating other schools and what they are using their cable for.”

Students for the most part are excited about having cable TV in their rooms.

“I think it’s a nice feature because I’m not a huge sports fan, and I can watch my own programming without feeling bad for taking the TV away from people who want to watch sports,” Johnny Cummins ’08 said. “I like being able to watch the news whenever I want. It helps me stay up-to-date because I can just have the news on in the background while I’m doing other things.”

Hubbard said that in general, students were “thrilled” about having cable TV in their dorm rooms.

“I have met very few students, maybe two or three, who are fundamentally opposed to it [cable in dorm rooms],” Hubbard said. “Even people who don’t watch cable TV want the right to be able to do it.”

---

Your application: “I want to become a doctor.”

The Johns Hopkins Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program prepares college graduates with strong academic records to apply to the best medical schools by giving them the personal attention, the necessary science and math courses, and one-to-one academic advising.

If you or someone you know wants to pursue a career as a doctor, apply during the period of September 1 to March 1.

For more information, visit www.jhu.edu/postbac or call 410-516-7748.

Your reality: “I don’t have the required courses for medical school.”

JOHNS HOPKINS
Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program