By Jessica STRAUS, Staff Writer

What-A-Burger! in Mooresville is the hamburger joint of your “Happy Days” dreams. Mr. Ebb Bost founded it in 1965, and
this relic from the past is still bold today. Located about 10 minutes from campus, What-A-Burger! has all the neon
signs and greasy cooking you could want. My favorite part is their shameless rip-off of Whataburger, the much larger Texas-based
chain of the same name and orange color scheme. According to Assistant Manager, Mary Sesperman, What-A-Burger! is “not associated with”
the non-hyphenated version. But who needs big chains? This Mooresville staple also has locations in Kannapolis and Concord. Welcome to
those in need of old-time service and food.

Old-style hamburgers and fun

The whole beauty of What-A-Burger! is its greasy goodness. And by greasy, I mean, you must be willing to get
down and dirty with this hamburger. The food options are of the basic hamburger variety. The house special, the “What-A-Burger,”
is probably the way to go. It’s bigger than their normal burger - and we all know that bigger is
better. What’s also better is the price. The cash-only policy is just fine with a $2.30 What-A-Burger, $1.95 milkshake, and
$0.90 apple pie. Talk about the perfect place to take a date; you could both eat for about $10. As
an added benefit, you don’t have to leave the car to eat “Carolina’s Finest.” You park, and the waitress comes
right to you.

Of all the what-a-options, I would say the chocolate milkshake is a must. It falls into the same ambiguous ice-cream-drink
category as a Wendy’s Frosty—tasty, but it is difficult to explain its grayish color and lack of chocolate flavor. You
should overlook these things in order to fully immerse yourself into the rare cultural “experience.” The “Witch Doctor” is another
What-A-Burger! specialty, and it’s yours for the bargain price of $0.90. The Witch Doctor is your basic Coke, Sprite, Cherry
SunDrop soda mix, but wait, add three pickles and one lemon slice. Why pickles? “Because that’s what makes it good,”
was the straight answer from an assistant manager. A woman, who seemed like a regular, told me she didn’t know
what it was, but her kids always liked it. In the spirit of What-A-Burger!, all unidentifiable food should be given
to children, or to the friend who will eat anything. This reporter did not subject herself to the Witch Doctor,
but feels that Davidson students brave enough will probably like it.

So go, take the random afternoon trip to Mooresville. Just turn right out of the Belk parking lot and keep
driving straight, you won’t miss it. Enjoy. The What-A-Burger of Mooresville is located at 210 South Main Street, (704) 664-5455.

Lindsey Smith’s “Virgin on the Guadalupe River.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY | March 17, 2004

By CANNON HODGE, Arts & Living Editor

It’s amazing how quickly a handful of paintings can transform a room. A simple stretch of canvas and its layered
colors manipulate a wall’s dimensions and tone until a previously familiar space feels completely different. Senior Studio Arts majors Zoe
Segnitz and Lindsey Smith proved this phenomenon as the Smith Gallery walls adapted to their Senior Art Exhibitions. Segnitz’s show,
“the heartHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"is an organ, an organ is the heart,” explored the multidimensional facets and interpretations of the human heart. Segnitz’s hearts
are not sterile depictions of medical gore but are sensually crafted meditations of self. Strangely delicate and almost eerie, Segnitz
places the heart into abstract and poetic landscapes. Pastel fronds mix with arteries, thin trees stretch from the heart’s center
and melt into the canvas’s white space, and an organ slides from an ephemeral notion of science into an everlasting
impression of soul. Art, for Segnitz, is her way of illuminating her personal story, and by using the heart Segnitz
is responding to its own dichotomy: heart as a working organ and origin of feeling. Thus, Segnitz’s autobiography is written
amid the liquid shades of watercolor, ink, and acrylic paint.

“Solitude and the Sea,” by Lindsey Smith, is a bold sweep of femininity and sense of place. Smith’s acrylic paintings
illustrate her proficiency with the human form and her yearning for South Texas mythology and family. Mermaids lazily gaze into
an unknown kingdom while children pout as they wait for their suncream to dry. Each painting employs a bold use
of complementary colors, shadows, and stark edges. Smith’s fascination with the ocean began when she was a child vacationing on
the Gulf of Mexico. The Texas Gulf, known for its dingy waters and oil refineries, is magically reinterpreted so that
the canvas becomes the viewer’s lens to Smith’s childhood imagination. Smith believes that childhood is not at all temporary but
that it persists and builds on memory and nostalgia until the real memory cannot be separated from pure imagination. Humans
become part of mythology and its creatures, and the canvas is where they exist.

A simple stretch of canvas and its layered colors manipulate a wall’s dimensions and tone until a previously familiar space
feels completely different. The Smith Gallery is forever changing and adapting to the progression of Senior Art Exhibitions. As the
exhibitions progress and change, the gallery’s sterile walls project the artists’ words and emotions. Last week, the gallery walls were
fluid with the history of a student’s heart and her celebration of identity, and this week the gallery has transformed
into an enchanting mythology of oceans, summertime, and family. Senior Art Exhibitions will follow “Solitude and the Sea” and show
a range of talent, interpretation, and personal interest.

The Smith Gallery is located in the VAC. Its hours are 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on weekdays and 12
p.m. to 4 p.m. on weekends. “Solitude and the Sea” began on Tuesday, Mar. 16 and ends on Monday, Mar.
22. Its reception is on Saturday, Mar. 20, 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. “the heart is an organ, an organ
is the heart” opened on Monday, Mar. 8 and ended on Saturday, March 13.

Coming Soon to the Smith Gallery:
Brendan Wittstruck’s “Machines of Love [synecdoche]” opens Mar. 25.
Martha Hunt’s “Signs of Life” opens Apr. 3.

---

TERRY’S TAXI
Serving Iredell and Mecklenburg County
24 Hour Service
Daytime: (704) 663-9411, (704) 663-9413
Evenings: (704) 663-9415, (704) 663-9812

If you need transportation to and from the airport, bus station, or other areas call Terry’s Taxi. Over 50 years
of service.
