14 Tue DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2004

Dykstra leads young volleyball team just like a veteran

By Monica JAMOUNEAU
Staff Writer

Hailing from Manhattan Beach, California, sophomore setter Jenna Dykstra ’07 is looking at this season as a perfect opportunity to make a name for herself while helping her team succeed on the court. Much was expected of Dykstra coming into Davidson last year, as she had a very successful high school career at Marymount in Los Angeles. Dykstra led the Sailors to the Sunshine League and State Championship crowns in her senior year, and the team finished with an impressive 34-4 mark.

Outside of high school competition, Dykstra participated in the National Beach Championship as a part of the AAU Junior National Volleyball Program in 2003. With her partner Taylor Carico, also from Manhattan Beach, Dykstra won the event in the women’s Under-21 division.

Dykstra, however, is proof that Davidson is looking for more than athletic skill from its student-athletes. Graduating from her high school magna cum laude, she earned a departmental distinction in English and became a member of the California Scholarship Federation, a statewide organization that recognizes those students who have displayed particularly impressive academic achievement.

Last year, Dykstra was invaluable for the ’Cats, starting every game and playing a wide range of positions. She ended the 2003 season with 317 kills, 232 assists, and 293 digs, a mark second only to Tamara Gallen ’05, and she had three triple-doubles and seven double-doubles. After moving around the court last year, Dykstra was penciled in as the setter this year to replace departed captain Nicole Tonelli ’04, and because of her successful freshman season, Dykstra was the lone Wildcat named to the preseason All-Conference team.

Dykstra has not disappointed either, as she has certainly met the heavy expectations in the early part of the season. In particular, Dykstra has been the leader of the Davidson offense, leading the Wildcats with 773 assists. In contrast, the next closest Wildcat has 19. Dykstra has also registered 64 kills and is tied for second best on the team with a .198 attack percentage. As a result of her play, she has been named to the all-tournament teams at the...

Football drops game to top-ranked Dayton on the road

By STEPHEN J. HALLIDAY
Staff Writer

The football team fell to 1-3 this week after another tough loss, this time to top-ranked 1 AA mid-major Dayton. The ’Cats offense looked good at times despite playing without starting QB Damion White ’05, but Dayton was dominant throughout the game on both sides of the ball, racking up 500 yards of total offense and forcing two Davidson turnovers.

The game started out with the teams exchanging touchdown drives, but the Wildcats were down 7-6 after failing to convert on the extra point try. The Wildcat defense forced a three-and-out on the ensuing Flyer possession, but Davidson fumbled the punt and Dayton recovered the loose ball in the end zone for their second score. On the first play after the kickoff, Beaux Jones ’08 was unable to connect with Christian Hunt ’05 on a pitch, and Dayton again recovered the football at the Wildcat three-yard line and ran in for a touchdown a few plays later. The Flyers then quickly added two more touchdowns to take a 35-6 lead with 6:23 remaining in the second quarter.

Davidson was able to cut the lead before the half, as Jones connected with Zach Schrandt ’08 on a 55-yard completion and then converted on a 10-yard touchdown pass to Jake Rice ’06 with 1:08 to play in the first period. Following the score, the ’Cats forced the Flyers to punt after three plays, and the Wildcats recovered a bad snap on fourth down at the Dayton 30. Jones then completed a touchdown pass to Schrandt, making the halftime score 35-20.

Dayton dominated the time of possession in the second half, however, and used three scoring drives to take a 45-20 lead with 3:44. Davidson responded with its only scoring drive of the half, when John Leverett ’05 ran it in from 10 yards out for his 35th career touchdown, leaving him just one point shy of Davidson’s career scoring record.

For the game, Dayton racked up 340 total rushing yards and dominated the time of possession, holding the ball for nearly 40 minutes. The ’Cats managed over 300 yards of total offense, including 119 rushing yards from Leverett on just 19 carries, and 194 passing yards from Jones in his first career start. Rice and Schrandt had good games receiving, with 89 and 91 yards respectively, and both had scoring catches.

Next week the ’Cats face Pioneer League rival Jacksonville (0-4) in Richardson Stadium in what will be an important game for the team.is Davidson’s first game against a PFL South opponent, and they need a win if they want to remain in the hunt for the PFL South crown and a chance at the PFL Championship. NAU and Liberty Invitationals. Dykstra’s integral role on the team as an underclassman is not unique, however, as nine of the eleven players on the current squad are either freshmen or sophomores. “Last season the team was already established and as freshmen, we just filled in the gaps. This year the team is new and the dynamic is completely different. As a young team we are definitely out to prove something,” said Dykstra. Dykstra has certainly had help from the newcomers too, as she says, “The freshmen are doing awesome. They are all filling positions that they do not normally play, and they are all playing their roles well. I think that they are definitely contributing positively to the team.”

As is common with young teams, however, the Wildcats have struggled in the early season, and are currently 6-13. The youth appears to be growing up, though, since the ’Cats are 3-1 over their last four games, and also 3-1 in Southern Conference play. Said Dykstra, “Our schedule prepared us very well for conference play. We had three tough pre-conference tournaments that exposed us to good teams from all over the country. We’ve definitely grown up a lot since then as a team, in terms of how we play and how we work together rather than as individuals.”

“I anticipate our team really clicking and coming together in the next couple of weeks. There is no team that is dominating in our conference, so everyone really has a shot. I expect our team to take this opportunity by winning close matches and establishing ourselves as a contender in the conference tournament,” she said. And if Dykstra’s play is any indication, she will do everything she can to see that prediction becomes a reality.

Photo by Dorset Clark

Dykstra has 63 kills so far, and leads the team in assists with 773.

Field Hockey hangs with UNC, falls hard at Duke
By Britt MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

After a successful 2003 season, field hockey decided that an easy schedule just wouldn’t be enough to challenge the team this year. As a result, the Wildcats have played one of the most difficult non-conference schedules in the nation, including games this past week against national powers UNC-Chapel Hill and Duke.

Davidson traveled to Chapel Hill this past Tuesday to play the undefeated Tar Heels, currently ranked No. 1 in the NCAA Division I poll, but the ’Cats did not wilt against the strong North Carolina squad. The Tar Heels feature one of the strongest offenses in the nation, highlighted by first-team All-American Kelsey Keeran, but the stingy Davidson defense limited the Tar Heels’ top three scorers to one goal. North Carolina still dominated on the offensive end, as they registered 70 shots in the contest, but goalkeeper Sarah Nolan ’05, who head coach Lisa Thompson said “was outstanding in the cage,” made 19 saves to keep the Wildcats in the game.

Although the Wildcats lost 4-0, the result against the top-ranked team in the country was encouraging for the ’Cats. Thompson says, “[It] was the finest performance of the season. We played as a complete unit. We took risks, and played with a lot of confidence and determination.”

After the strong showing in Chapel Hill, Davidson then traveled to Durham on Sunday to face No. 5 Duke. Against the Blue Devils, however, the defense was unable to control an explosive Duke offense that scored 13 goals in total. The Davidson offense, on the other hand, was unable to create any opportunities against a stalwart Duke defense that has limited 11 opponents this season to just five goals overall. Davidson managed just two shots to Duke’s 40. Thompson said, “[The team] came out flat-footed right from the beginning. There is no reason to play hesitant hockey. Duke is a fantastic team, but I know we could have challenged them more.”

Although field hockey has played two of the top five teams in the nation in one week, they cannot relax too much, as their next game comes Oct. 10 against American University, currently ranked ninth in the NCAA Division I poll. The Wildcats then complete their four-game road stint at Georgetown, before they return to Belk Turf Field for three of their last four games of the season. Thompson is optimistic for the remainder of the season, as she has “a roster full of strong and determined women” who “will roll with the punches and get back up stronger than we have ever been.”