THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2004

New senators sworn in, election plans discussed
By Kate GILLESPIE
Staff Writer

Davidson’s Student Government Association (SGA) held its first meeting last Thursday. The group swore in new senators and discussed upcoming elections as it opened the year with a theme of “building bridges.”

“We need to work on continuity,” SGA president Katharine Hubbard ’05 said. “As so many people come and go, we need to keep up the pace because we are the umbrella organization for all other organizations on campus.”

As clubs begin organizing and preparing for the school year, SGA is focusing on the campus-wide elections that will be held this Monday from 8:30 a.m. to 8 p.m. Students will receive an email on Monday with a link that will allow them to vote electronically.

“We hold the elections when school starts because we want the freshmen involved as soon as possible,” Hubbard said. “We don’t want to set goals without our new members.”

First years will choose six freshmen senators. All students will participate in the elections of the six independent senators who are not affiliated with any Patterson Court organization. SGA also coordinates Honor Council elections; students vote for four sophomores, three juniors, and two seniors to fill open positions.

Candidate sign-ups for the elections were held in the Dean of Students Office in Chambers and ended last Monday. According to SGA Elections Chairperson Ryan Creighan ’07, prospective senators were subject to strict campaigning procedures. Candidates would be disqualified if they campaigned prior to the mandatory meeting held last Tuesday. Candidates for the Honor Council were not allowed to campaign.

“The cost of campaigning may not be more than $15, and there can be no campaign signs hung up in an educational building,” Creighan said. “This also includes all structures of the building, such as outside steps, columns, or banisters.”

If the top six candidates do not receive at least 50 percent of the vote, SGA will hold a runoff election on Tuesday. The top twelve candidates will run again, and the results of the runoff election will determine the students who become senators. In any case, the top vote-getter will be named class president.

“The most successful campaigns have been creative signs, posters, and slogans and word of mouth, especially for the freshmen class,” Creighan said.

At Thursday’s meeting, SGA also decided to hold its annual retreat on Sunday, October 3 at Erwin Lodge. The organization uses the retreat to plan its year-long goals and to teach SGA procedures to new members. At last year’s retreat, senators and representatives decided to push for cable TV in dorm rooms and an extension to the pass/fail deadline; both these goals have been fulfilled this fall.

SGA is currently planning several events for the student body. For example, on September 11, students will receive ribbons and gather at the flagpole in remembrance of the 2001 terrorist attacks. The ceremony will be held at 12 p.m. this year rather than 8:45 a.m., as the date falls on the Saturday after First Night Down. SGA also plans to cosponsor an event for the campus with the Union Board and PCC and is planning another “April at the Lake.”

SGA meetings are open to all students and are held Thursdays at 9 p.m. in the Sprinkle Room.

Pass/fail, from page 1
interest or importance to them,” Epes said. Epes also reported that, in any given semester, about 8 to 10 percent of all classes are taken pass/fail. However, out of these same pass/fail enrollments come nearly 40% of all Fs given in a semester. These numbers disturbed many faculty members at their last meeting.

There were a few SGA members who expressed the concern that a later deadline might encourage students to simply use the option to improve their GPA. However, having more feedback about the current grade before making the decision to pass/fail remained a compelling benefit for the SGA. SGA senator Mac Skelton ’07 echoed some of the sentiments of the group. “I’m incredibly indecisive. More time is always better,” he said.

After passing through the SGA, the proposal was considered by the Trustee Educational Policy Committee and then voted on and endorsed by the faculty. A significant number of the faculty voiced reservations about the idea of taking courses pass/fail at all. Over four years, all students are permitted to take six courses on a pass/fail basis. Freshmen and sophomores may only take one pass/fail course per year, while upperclassmen can take one per semester. 8 to 10 percent of all classes each semester are taken pass/fail. However, out of these classes come 40 percent of all Fs given in the same semester. --Registrar Hansford Epes

With a C- requirement to pass the course, as opposed to the D otherwise required, the policy is implemented under the discretion of departments when major requirements are taken into consideration. The question still remains as to the opinion of graduate schools towards transcripts showing “pass” instead of a grade. However, the general attitude on campus toward the extension remains very positive and most students appreciate the option. Kelly Dresser ’07 is excited about the decision, but knows that it is not necessary. “I could live without pass/fail, but it’s a nice option to have,” she said.

Charlotte increases anti-terrorism security
By BEN WHIGHAM
Senior Staff WriterAs a major city with a large banking foundation and nuclear power plant, Charlotte and its surrounding towns have taken measures to increase anti-terrorism capabilities during these times of heightened concern for national security. These increased measures resulted in the detainment of 35-year-old Pakistani national Kamran Akhtar last month by the Charlotte police, who caught Akhtar videotaping the Bank of America skyscraper and other important buildings. At the center of Charlotte’s defense system is fifth-term mayor Pat McCrory, uncle of Wilson McCrory ’07. “We’re one of the more prepared cities,” said Mayor McCrory, citing programs created to guard government and banking infrastructure. McCrory serves on the national Homeland Security Advisory Council. He said his involvement with the council largely focuses on the partnership of federal and local governments in combating terrorism. “(Charlotte has) great cooperation with the federal and state governments,” McCrory said. Primarily composed of individuals from academia and the private sector, the council reviews the work of two subcommittees in the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. “It is extremely important how the federal government distributes money,” said McCrory. “There is enough of it, but that doesn’t necessarily mean it is being spent in the best ways.” Charlotte, as one of the largest 50 cities in the country, receives direct funding from the federal government. The remaining funds are distributed to the state governments to allocate as they see fit. McCrory faults many state governments for distributing their money based on population density rather than on risk of attack. “Once the governors get the money, they distribute it per capita rather than where there is danger of attack, and that just doesn’t make sense,” said McCrory. To maximize its anti-terrorism capabilities, Charlotte has formed a coalition with surrounding towns and communities to pool resources and create an organized response. “When we get a grant, we’re sharing it with all the towns around us,” said McCrory. As a private institution, Davidson does not share in the federal funding. It does, however, coordinate its anti-terrorist and public safety operations with Mecklenburg County. “We’re in the network and they’re keeping us up to date,” said Davidson Director of Public Safety and Police Fountain Walker. “We have to be coordinated.” The Cornelius police have purchased a mobile command unit in case of emergencies. The unit is an RV-style vehicle that can provide mobile coordination in case primary police systems are downed. “We’re never completely safe in a free democracy because terrorism doesn’t have any rules or guidelines. But to get terrorism, you have to get them before they attack and catch them ... You have to take the fight to them, and that’s my firm belief.” --Charlotte Mayor Pat McCrory Walker has full authority to request use of Cornelius’ mobile command unit in case of emergency. Another resource, the All-Hazards Advisory Committee, offers training opportunities for public safety personnel untrained in dealing with a terrorist attack. Walker stressed the fact that terrorist threats are not restricted to foreign militants. He defined a terrorist as “anyone, anywhere with a certain belief that compels them to violence.” Walker expressed reserved confidence in the anti-terrorism groundwork. “In my opinion, Charlotte is far more advanced in preparation than any other city,” said Walker. “But you can never be completely ready for every single threat.” McCrory described the challenge in evaluating Charlotte’s anti-terrorism efforts. “No one knows what type of prevention job we are doing at this time,” he said. “So far everyone’s got a clean slate, but you won’t know until it happens.” McCrory supports preemption as the best measure against terrorist threats. “We’re never completely safe in a free democracy because terrorism doesn’t have any rules or guidelines,” he said. “But to get terrorism, you have to get them before they attack and catch them before they enter our country. You have to take the fight to them, and that’s my firm belief.” Due to increased security, Pakistani national Kamran Akhtar was detained by the Charlotte police last month for videotaping the Bank of America skyscraper, left, and other important buildings in the Charlotte area. Photos, from page 1 would not be as concerned with the issue.” However, some students believe that taking pictures to document relatively minor violations “undermines the integrity of the student body,” said Billy Ferguson ’05. In a school so defined by its honor code, the word of the student alone should suffice when dealing with disciplinary matters, he said. Walker said that under certain circumstances, such as violations at unregistered parties on Martin Court, photographs are necessary to ensure an accurate representation of the situation. During registered parties at Patterson Court, which require the presence of a police officer, taking pictures is rare. “We would only take pictures at Patterson Court in extreme situations,” Walker said. Walker said that during the past two years, he has only found it necessary to take pictures at Martin Court before First Night Down. He said that the combination of a new set of seniors living at Martin Court and the students’ excitement to be back on campus tends to cause large numbers of students to disregard officers’ requests to disperse when parties become too large. The officers will only take pictures of crowd situations when an initial warning has been ignored. To avoid these situations, Walker encourages students to be proactive and police themselves.