By ANDREW SCHAPIRO AND VIRGINIA GREGORY
Restaurant Reviewers

Mention the word sushi at Davidson and most people immediately think of Joel’s and Sushi at the Lake. Out of
curiosity, however, we decided to break the mold this week and try a different venue for Japanese food—Sekisui. Located just
west of Exit 23 in Huntersville, Sekisui is a refreshing change with a unique atmosphere and an extensive menu that
offers everything from sushi to noodle bowls.

The first thing that caught our attention when we entered the restaurant was the fountain of water running smoothly down
a rippled, metallic wall. A mission statement in the menu explains that Sekisui means water and stone in Japanese, and
these natural elements are integrated into an otherwise modern decor. Red beams radiating across the ceiling contrast with black and
white Japanese prints that adorn the gray walls. Small light fixtures of different colors extend down from the ceiling, shedding
just enough light on the table to read the menu, but they are not so bright that they overpower the
restaurant’s sophisticated, dim atmosphere. Despite its boring brick-box exterior, the interior’s unique ambiance hardly suggests that it is part of
a family of restaurants.

After we were seated, our server quickly brought warm towels to wipe our hands with before we began our meal.
The service was attentive but not intrusive. The timing between the presentation of our soup, appetizer, and the entrees was
just right. This reinforced the serene atmosphere created by the waterfall.

Our server was knowledgeable about the menu, and he proficiently answered the questions we had about some of the sushi
rolls. When we asked if we might speak with the owner or manager to learn more about Sekisui after our
meal, he quickly ushered us to the sushi bar, where manager and chef, Yoshiyuki Takusagawa, was hard at work preparing
sushi.

Sekisui prides itself on integrity to Japanese cuisine perhaps more than any other restaurant in the area. As Takusagawa pointed
out, hibachi grills that Sushi at the Lake, Kobe, and others flaunt for their entertainment value do not exist in
Japan. Sekisui foregoes them in favor of more authentic cookery like sushi and tempura, while other specialty entrees like teriyaki,
skewers, and udon noodle soups complete the menu.

With tempura, lightly battered vegetables are fried quickly at a high temperature so as to maintain the integrity of the
ingredients. Our appetizer portion was perfectly cooked and came to the table almost too hot to consume. To our surprise,
Sekisui includes asparagus among its tempura vegetables, adding flavor and color to the dish. Japanese eggplant, sweet potato, and onion
were also fried to golden perfection.

As at Joel’s and other Asian grills, most of the entrees are served with soup and a salad. The miso
soup was excellent and not too salty. Small cubes of tofu and pieces of seaweed articulated the hot, cloudy broth.

The salad appeared standard: iceberg lettuce topped with shredded red cabbage and served in a glass bowl. However, Sekisui’s ginger
dressing was more complex and less watery than we have come to expect of Japanese restaurants. It was a pale
yellow in color, and the tangy flavor hinted at soy and miso paste. Each of the appetizers we tried satisfied
us completely.

While neither of us claims to be a sushi expert, we were impressed with the quality of the fish in
our sampling and the creativity of some more adventurous maki rolls. The Huntersville roll stood out, a unique combination of
crab and sweet chili sauce and topped with shrimp and avocado.

Other special rolls mix various raw fish with shrimp tempura, steamed blue crab, and even Japanese chicken nuggets. The more
traditional rolls and nigiri sushi offer a range of raw fish, from sea urchin and conch to scallop and salmon.

We also tried Kushiyaki, skewers of chicken, beef, or shrimp grilled with mushrooms and onions and served with tempura sweet
potatoes.

Steamed sticky rice dusted with black sesame seeds also accompanied the skewers. Oranges sliced and arranged to look like butterflies
decorated the blue glass plate and were further evidence of the restaurant’s authenticity. Japanese cuisine emphasizes presentation, namely contrasting color
combinations like blue and orange and representations of nature like butterflies.

Sekisui’s other offerings were expected dishes with somewhat unexpected ingredients. For example, teriyaki versions of yellowtail and salmon are offered
along with the predictable beef, chicken, and shrimp. There are a few noodle soups and stir-fried items on the menu
as well as grilled eel over rice. If the choices seem overwhelming, order a bento box which includes a sampling
of sushi, teriyaki, and tempura and is served with rice, soup, and a salad.

To complement the meal, Sekisui offers a selection of Japanese beers, wine, and unique cocktails. The sake menu highlights a
handful of the rice wines with detailed descriptions of each one’s bouquet.

For those who save room for dessert, the mango, green tea, and red bean ice creams are a light, refreshing
way to end the meal. Off the beaten path, Sekisui promotes a more relaxed and refined alternative to the more
familiar Japanese restaurants to which students go. We left Sekisui happy to have discovered a restaurant that prides itself on
fresh ingredients and authentic cuisine.

Sekisui
14211 Reese Blvd W, Huntersville
(704)-992-1234
www.sekisuiusa.com
