THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2004

Checking in with D.U.F.F.

By Brian HELFRICH
Senior Staff Writer

Ultimate Frisbee requires high degrees of stamina, speed, agility, and more importantly in the case of Davidson’s Ultimate Frisbee teams, DUFF, fun. Often, people look at Frisbee as a recreational activity, and largely, it is. DUFF, however, offers both male and female students an equal opportunity to participate at either an intramural or interscholastic level of competitive fun.

For those who are unfamiliar with the sport, it is a combination of many sports that closely resembles football. The positions mirror the setups of most other sports, with three separate groups of players. Two teams of seven players battle non-stop in a framed field of play, trying to score points by entering the opposing end zone. The teams toss the Frisbee from player to player, trying to avoid the opposition while still advancing the disc. A player may not run with the Frisbee and if it hits the ground, it changes possession. While the game is often unorganized, especially on a recreational level, DUFF actually draws up plays to create order.

Much like the Wildcat varsity teams, the DUFF squads (Folk: Men/Coed, Foxes: Women) compete on a high level and often defeat teams that draw from a larger student population. Senior Katherine Rockwell ’05 said, “Both the men and women went to a tournament in Berea, KY in the beginning of November where both teams were third and the girls won the spirit award. The spirit award means the other teams thought we best encompassed the spirit of the game and sportsmanship.” The men’s team also went to a tournament in Tennessee, knocking off the University of Tennessee in the process.

This fall, DUFF also hosted a successful “Witch’s Brew” Tournament over Halloween weekend. The tournament brought in six teams from all over the southern region and players are hopeful that the tournament will evolve into an annual event.

More important to the athletes than the competitive aspect, however, is the social opportunity that the organization provides. Students participating in DUFF build unique relationships, much like fraternities and eating houses. Sophomore Jeff Yeakel ’07 comments, “The balance between the two [athletic and social aspects] is what makes it such a special organization, one I feel is an essential part of Davidson.”

If you’re looking to get outside, have a great workout, and meet awesome people, then DUFF is waiting for you.

DUFF prides itself on being a frisbee family on and off the field.

Swimmers come out strong at Davidson Invitational

By Britt MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

The swim team hosted the Davidson Invitational Nov. 19-21, and both the men and women continued to show promise in the early season en route to second and third place finishes respectively in the four and five-team events.

Freshmen Will Broughton ’08 and Fiete Stegger ’08 continued to impress on the men’s side, as the two swimmers combined for six first-place finishes between them in individual and relay events. Broughton destroyed the competition in the 1650 free, winning by more than 20 seconds over the closest competitor to set a season’s best in 16:18.48. In all, Broughton totaled three individual wins and a team relay win over the weekend, earning the Colonial Athletic Association’s Swimmer of the Week award for his efforts.

In the 100 free, Stegger touched the wall at :47.37, more than a second and a half faster than the next closest swimmer. Freshman Robb Broughton ’08 was also impressive, swimming to a second-place finish in the 200 fly at 1:58.16.

The men capped the meet on a high note, as Stegger, juniors Brad Poole ’06 and Steve Tolson ’06 and senior Michael Flower ’05 in a first-place finish for the Wildcats in the 400 free relay.

Stegger was happy with the outcome of the meet, as he believed it gave the team “an opportunity to swim fast and build confidence.” Fellow freshman Will Broughton agreed, as he said, “The meet showed that the Davidson swim team has really improved since last year...Everyone put forth a strong effort to swim their best...[but the team] has a long way to go.”

Davidson finished with 975 points overall and lost by just 45 points to James Madison. The Wildcats finished ahead of both College of Charleston and VMI.

On the women’s side, senior Trisha Blackwell ’05 finished first in the 200 back, and freshmen Kirsten Allen ’08, Maddie Stough ’08 and Ivey McAliley ’08 all performed well over the weekend.

Eli Trefzger ’07 also finished second in the 100 fly, and Kirsten Shielders ’07 was second in the 200 free.

Overall, Stough said, “[The] team did really well despite having several girls sick or injured,” while Allen believed “it was a nice warm-up meet for conference.”

For the weekend, the women finished third behind both Gardner-Webb and James Madison and ahead of College of Charleston and Radford.

Both teams next swim at Duke on Jan. 21.

All Students, Faculty, and Staff receive 20% off with CatCard!