Davidson violinists and competition winners will perform solo, duet

Student violinists to serenade Davidson College audience

By SARAH ROBINSON
Staff Writer

Every fall semester, the Music Department holds a Concerto/Aria Competition for the chance for students to perform a solo or duet with the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra (DCSO). This year’s winners will perform a solo by Jean Sibelius and a duet by Johann Sebastian Bach. The solo will be performed by violinist Brian Conaway ’06 and the duet by Susan Stroebel ’04 and Lee Ballard ’07 (also violinists). All three have chosen pieces that allow them to combine their love of music and their technique, so that they may entertain the audience with history as well as harmony.

Stroebel started playing when she was three and a half, and attended an arts school from fifth to twelfth grade. Conaway has been playing for over fourteen years, starting with his parents’ suggestion and then continuing once he fell in love with music. On the other hand, Ballard started after watching a concert on television and seeing a solo violinist.

The concerto winners have a unique opportunity to perform for the student population and show their ability as violinists. For the auditions, the musicians were accompanied by piano. Now, the three players have rehearsed with DCSO, working to adjust the sound for harmony. Stroebel says the experience has taught her that, “communication is really the key to working with a larger group as a duet. Not only do Lee and I have to be on the same wavelength at every moment, but also have to be sensitive to the orchestra.”

When choosing the music, the three chose compositions that would challenge them and were arranged by composers whom they admired. Since Ballard liked the third movement and Stroebel liked the second movement of Bach’s Concerto for Two Violins, they decided to perform all three movements. Ballard states, “Bach always has engaging textures and driving rhythms, as well as creating space and beautiful melodies that hang in the air. His mood tends to be more consistent within the movements than Beethoven or the Romantics.”

Conaway, who also composes, states, “the Serenades are very lyrical and melancholy, and Sibelius’s orchestration is very unique. He ranks right up there with Mahler and Berlioz on my list of favorite composers.” He will perform Serenatas One and Two. The two different pieces will complement each other in their styles and from their contrasting musical periods (while Bach is from the Baroque Period, Sibelius wrote in the twentieth century). The different styles of Bach and Sibelius will expose the audience to the violin’s versatility.

The concert will be on February 26 at 8:00 p.m. in Duke and will include the Davidson College Wind Ensemble.

Snapshots of Davidson

Arts & Living encourages students and faculty to submit creative or personal photographs for the ‘Snapshots of Davidson’

LIVING
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2004

Southbound 77: Pat Green sings Texas to Charlotte

By Cannon Hope
Arts & Living Editor

Since pop music and its breast-baring, mini-microphone-wearing trolls invaded Nashville, good country music has completely died. Concerts are lip-synched and roughly choreographed, and today’s lyrics are so poor that they consist of nothing more than a simple generic chorus. Even worse, some “country music” artists have released crossover albums that offer both twangy and techno versions of their lyrically deprived ballads. Lord, whatever is going to happen to the face of country music? Where are the songwriters? Where are...Steve Earle, Waylon Jennings, and Walt Wilkins hiding? Oh, please tell me that they haven’t given up to those wannabe cowboys who wear black leather cowboy hats and sing about sexy tractors. Wait - have any of those clowns even driven a tractor? Don’t worry, there’s hope. Conquering the Texas Music world is simpler than taking on Nashville’s megalomania. 

The band makes money by selling tickets - putting butts in the seats and selling T-shirts. That’s how we make a living. Thus, Green’s concerts are memorable, unique to each venue, and catered toward any audience. This Friday night’s show, however, will be in a larger venue. The Grady Cole Center houses 1,600 fans and is much larger than Green’s previous concert locations. This slight change indicates Green’s recent success. 

Green’s music is not typical contemporary country, and his band is as eccentric as the Texas Music capital is. In fact, Green’s band consists of some of Texas’ finest musicians, and the band’s influences include Stevie Ray Vaughn, David Grissom, Mark O’Conner, Nigel Kennedy, Eddie Bayers, Dwight Yoakum, Old School Motown, Buck Owens, and the Highway Men. This band is far more eclectic than your average hackneyed, soap-box produced pretty boy group dressed in tight jeans. 

Honeybrowne, another Texas Country band, opens for Pat Green. The Austin-based group has opened for Texas greats Willie Nelson, Pat Green, and his best friend artists like Django Walker, Harris and Ryden, Cross Canadian Ragweed, Kevin Fowler, and Jack Ingram. They have a strong Texas following but rarely venture beyond the state line. Pat Green, however, has. He was born a Texas good ole boy and he certainly has not forgotten his roots. 

Many of Pat Green’s Texas fans argue that the Texas artist has joined the Nashville milieu and militia, but many others firmly support Green’s move to New York-based Universal Records. While his Texas concerts regularly sell out to audiences of over 100,000, attendance at Green’s east-coast venues matches that of his early-day college pub shows. Audiences as small as 45 have been known to sit on the floor of some pubs to listen to acoustic duets performed by Green and Walt Wilkins. These concerts are far more intimate than his Texas performances, but the energy is still there. 

Live concerts are more important to Green than his radio success. While “Wave on Wave” ranked #3 on Billboard’s Country Music Charts, Green maintains that “the goal for our band is to kind of be a country Widespread Panic or String Cheese Incident. The real way that a band makes money is by selling tickets - putting butts in the seats and selling T-shirts. That’s how we make a living.” 

Thus, Green’s concerts are memorable, unique to each venue, and catered toward any audience. This Friday night’s show, however, will be in a larger venue. The Grady Cole Center houses 1,600 fans and is much larger than Green’s previous concert locations. This slight change indicates Green’s recent success. 

Green’s music is not typical contemporary country, and his band is as eccentric as the Texas Music capital is. In fact, Green’s band consists of some of Texas’ finest musicians, and the band’s influences include Stevie Ray Vaughn, David Grissom, Mark O’Conner, Nigel Kennedy, Eddie Bayers, Dwight Yoakum, Old School Motown, Buck Owens, and the Highway Men. This band is far more eclectic than your average hackneyed, soap-box produced pretty boy group dressed in tight jeans. 

Honeybrowne, another Texas Country band, opens for Pat Green. The Austin-based group has opened for Texas greats Willie Nelson, Pat Green, and his best friend artists like Django Walker, Harris and Ryden, Cross Canadian Ragweed, Kevin Fowler, and Jack Ingram. They have a strong Texas following but rarely venture beyond the state line. Pat Green, however, has. He was born a Texas good ole boy and he certainly has not forgotten his roots. 

Many of Pat Green’s Texas fans argue that the Texas artist has joined the Nashville milieu and militia, but many others firmly support Green’s move to New York-based Universal Records. While his Texas concerts regularly sell out to audiences of over 100,000, attendance at Green’s east-coast venues matches that of his early-day college pub shows. Audiences as small as 45 have been known to sit on the floor of some pubs to listen to acoustic duets performed by Green and Walt Wilkins. These concerts are far more intimate than his Texas performances, but the energy is still there. 

Live concerts are more important to Green than his radio success. While “Wave on Wave” ranked #3 on Billboard’s Country Music Charts, Green maintains that “the goal for our band is to kind of be a country Widespread Panic or String Cheese Incident. The real way that a band makes money is by selling tickets - putting butts in the seats and selling T-shirts. That’s how we make a living.” 

Honeybrowne and Jack Ingram have been touring with Green for a while. This band has been called one of the hardest working bands on the Texas Music scene and is sure to expose North Carolina to a true Austin sound. Touring with Honeybrowne proves that Pat Green will continue to fight the overwhelming Nashville stereotypes. Since beginning their February tour, Honeybrowne and Green have sold out in New Orleans, Auburn, and Tallahassee. While North Carolina usually is inundated with sappy-soaked Nashville country, Pat Green and Honeybrowne will prove that they are talented and that they did, in fact, appreciate Johnny Cash before his surge of posthumous popularity.

Concert Information:
Honeybrowne opening for Pat Green
Venue: Grady Cole Center
Date: Friday, February 20, 2004
Time: 8:00 PM
Tickets: $18.00
704-336-2884

MOVIE EXTRAS/MODELS NEEDED
Local and statewide productions
No exp. req. all looks ages 18+
Minor and major roles avail.
EARN UP TO $300/DAY
1-800-818-7520