4 THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2004

Folk artist Newcomer advocates peace through her music

By Mary KATHERINE EVANS
Staff Writer

Last week Davidson hosted folk musician and songwriter Carrie Newcomer. The visit was sponsored by the Lilly Programs for the Theological Exploration of Vocation. Lilly Programs director Tim Beach-Verhey heard about Newcomer through her agent and decided after learning of her music and workshops that, “she would be perfect for Davidson.” Newcomer was the first musician to come to Davidson as a part of the Lilly Programs.

“I think bringing a musician to campus really worked wonderfully. Music helps us to explore the deep territory of our own existence in a way that lectures often do not. Somehow, good music resonates at the heart of things, and that is what the Lilly Programs is all about - the heart of things,” said Beach-Verhey.

Newcomer led two open workshops called “The Sacred Ordinary” and “The Spirit of Peace and Justice: Living Your Dreams,” and capped off her stay by performing a concert in the 900 Room. Both workshops centered on vocation and the spiritual component of daily life. She also encouraged those in attendance to practice peace in relationships with others and with the world in general.

In the workshop entitled “The Spirit of Peace and Justice: Living Your Dreams,” Newcomer quoted her favorite Quaker adage, “Let your life speak,” and led a thoughtful discussion about calling and connection with the larger world. The dialogue was facilitated by students and faculty as they discussed the difficulty of fulfilling this saying. “When you’re brave enough to take the first step, sometimes other people will take the step to meet you,” said Newcomer.

Newcomer also discussed the importance of respecting the opinions of others during the workshops. Her visit to campus was well-timed with newly formed divisions and debates about the upcoming election. Beach-Verhey said that despite Newcomer’s one-sided opinions, “It certainly was not the intention of the Lilly Programs to promote a particular partisan agenda. It was our purpose to bring someone to campus who could help us all reflect on the depth and significance of daily life and action.”

Beach-Verhey was pleased by the turnout. “At each of the workshops there were between 30-40 people there. At the concert, I think there were around 150. One of the things I liked best about each of these events was the mix of people in attendance. It seemed fairly equally divided between students, faculty and staff, alumni, and community members. This allowed for a great mix of experiences in the workshops, giving folks a lot to talk about,” he said.

“Carrie’s presence was one of peace and patience that we often don’t find on this campus. It was a gift to be in conversation with her about matters of finding sacredness among the ordinary hum-drum of life. Her gift of music was also special as those attending the concert were able to gather together to relax and enjoy her gifts of guitar and voice,” said Patricia Massey ’07.

A Quaker and an activist, Newcomer values and teaches the nobility of the individual life. In the brochure that describes her workshops, it states that Newcomer “encourages a continuing dialogue with the sacred and a more mindful way of experiencing life.” Newcomer has been very successful in the folk music industry, having performed with singers such as Bonnie Raitt, Alison Krauss, and Mary Chapin Carpenter. Nickel Creek covered her song, “I Should’ve Known Better,” for theirGrammy-winning album, “This Side,” and hosted two workshops last week. Sushi @ The Lake (704) 987-8080 www.sushiatthelake.com 10% Off with School ID Monday-Friday 2pm-6pm Saturday 11:30am-5pm

Homecoming, from page 1

President Sarah Allen ’08. Saturday afternoon the football team, in their first home game of the season, captured their first win of the season against Butler by a score of 21-14. At halftime, the Homecoming Court was announced. Colin Setterberg ’05 and Emily Upchurch ’05 were named Homecoming King and Queen.

“I am very surprised and flattered to have been elected. It’s a huge honor and I am extremely appreciative,” said Upchurch, who is in Rusk and was representing Sigma Phi Epsilon. Setterberg expressed similar sentiments. “It was a joy and an honor to represent some of the amazing people here, even though I ended up wearing a silly purple hat while doing it,” said Setterberg, an independent.

Turnout was better than expected. Over 330 alumni and over 500 guests in total attended the Homecoming celebrations. The college held reunions for the classes of ’99, ’94, ’48, ’49, and ’39. Happy Gladstone ’31 of Greensboro, N.C. was the oldest alumnus to come.

“Despite the unfortunate conflict between the scheduling of Homecoming 2004 and the Jewish holy day Yom Kippur, our alumni returned in record numbers and, by all indications, had a wonderful time reconnecting with each other and with Davidson,” said Director of Alumni Relations Matt Merrell.

President Bobby Vagt addressed the 10 members of the class of ’39 at dinner on Friday night. Vagt also visited and offered remarks at the class dinners of all the alumni classes on Saturday night. On Saturday morning, Associate Professor of Political Science Pat Sellers addressed many of the alumni in a lecture he provided on the presidential campaign. The college also held a two-day leadership conference with the intention of training alumni volunteers for positions in the Alumni Office, the Annual Fund, and the Davidson Athletic Foundation. Vagt praised the “intergenerational energy” surrounding the weekend, such as the networking of ’39 alumni with ’99 alumni.

According to Vagt, the goal of these alumni weekends is “to make alumni feel the connection.”

“It was wonderful to see so many members of the Class of ’99 back on campus for our 5-year reunion. We had a great turnout, enjoyed receptions at the VAC and in the renovated Chambers Gallery, and got to see how much Davidson has changed since we graduated. Most of all, we enjoyed catching up with each other and reliving our college days a little,” said class of ’99 Alumni Co-Chair Liddy Hall.

“I’ve never seen one that appeared to involve better planning and execution,” said class of ’39 Alumni Co-Chair Don Davidson. “I just hope we haven’t killed a great college president named Bobby Vagt. He was everywhere, and what a marvelous job he does in making people feel glad they came and, if possible, love Davidson College even more,” he said.

CASES, COURTHOUSES & ROASTERY

Bring your Davidson ID and receive a FREE Port City Java Iced or Brewed Coffee for the month of September. Pastries, Muffins, Bagels. Free Wireless Internet for All Customers. We're open: Mon-Fri 6 a.m., Weekends 7 a.m. 19930 West Catawba Ave., Cornelius Near McAllister’s Deli, Exit 28, off I-77 704-896-1900