Staff Editorial

Always be prepared, even in the South

Davidson students are lucky to go to a school where Carolina blue skies and moderate temperatures are the norm, even
in the dead of winter. Unfortunately, every so often our sunny skies turn gray and we must deal with the
same forces of nature that torment our friends in the North throughout the winter months. Last Sunday, students awoke to
the sight of flurries falling, covering the campus, town, and roads in a blanket of snow and ice. Snowball fights
and sledding soon gave way to worried looks on many students’ faces as it became clear that roads and walkways
were dangerously slick and little was being done to clear them.

The decision by the College not to follow the lead of other schools in the area and cancel classes meant
that many faculty and staff faced a risky and treacherous journey to and around Davidson due to the College and
the town’s inadequate preparation for snowstorms. With the exception of some sand placed in a few key areas of campus,
little effort was made until Tuesday by the College to clear the roads and make them safe for those who
needed to drive in order to get to their classes or to work. This lack of preparedness for snowstorms is
simply unacceptable, particularly when the administration insists the school remain open for business during such poor weather conditions.

Davidson receives enough snowfall on a regular basis to possess the basic equipment necessary to make the roads relatively safe
for driving. A simple snowplow that could be attached to one of the College’s numerous trucks would be all that
is needed to at least ease the worries of those individuals asked to come to work during such poor conditions.
If the administration fails to take steps to adequately prepare the school for future snowstorms it will not only be
acting discourteously towards its hardworking faculty and staff, but also placing them in serious danger.

Last week The Davidsonian introduced a new humor section, The Yowl, to papers on campus. The Yowl is part of
our long-term plans to increase the paper’s scope by adding new sections and expanding existing ones. We are asking our
readers to help us in this task by telling us what you thought of The Yowl and what other types
of new coverage you would like to read in future issues. Please email any comments or suggestions to The Davidsonian.

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2004

Ali Fitzgerald

---

WHATD YOU IT SYMBOLIZES MY ANTAGONISTIC RELATIONSHIP WITH SNOOPY Q-TIP? DISPENSER BOYS HANKY—

---

Alumnus demands Panther respect

I have no problem with Dave Letterman, Mike Giglio, and Jeff Davis calling out Panthers fans as bandwagon-jumpers and fair-weather
fans. It’s largely a true statement given the giddiness of people who can’t tell right guard Kevin Donnally from Right
Guard, the deodorant. I don’t even have a problem with Richard Connolly proclaiming his beloved Pats “the greatest thing since
sliced bread.” New England is an outstanding football team: talented, tough, well-coached, smart, and bereft of cell-phone, Sharpie-toting egomaniacs. The
problem I have with all of this is that all of those same adjectives apply to my Carolina Panthers.

Yes, Vir Giglio, real Panthers fans exist. But I’m not here to defend my fan-hood. Frankly my dear, I don’t
give a damn what anyone else thinks of me, my football knowledge, or my team. I like the Pats. I
genuinely respect them. I think we use the term genius too often in regards to football (it’s a game), but
if anyone deserves the moniker, it’s Bill Belichick. My biggest problem with all this incessant Patriot hype revolves around Tom
Brady. Brady’s a great quarterback. He has all the intangibles. But aren’t these comparisons to Joe Montana a little premature?
I mean, the guy is one tuck-ruling away from really being just another quarterback. If Brady is the second-coming, then
New England will win. And if he is, then let the comparisons begin. However, if I were a Pats fan
I would shy away from such talk lest I invite the retribution of the football gods.the crime of blasphemy. I
don’t know who’s going to win Super Bowl XXXVIII. I do know that if the Pats win, they’ll be lauded
as one of the greatest teams ever and deservedly so. Certainly, it would be the most impressive run since the
free-agency era began. I also think the Panthers have a better chance in the Big Game than many, including that
which Davidsonian’s own renowned sports-writing crew give them. And if Carolina pulls off the upset, I know that it would
be nice to get some genuine respect from a paper that publishes not more than 30 minutes from the freshly-named
Bank of America Stadium. Rather, in last week’s issue, all I got were the sour grapes of someone whose Jets
were mediocre and someone else who has his facts wrong. Listen, even if Carolina starts the year 0-3 in 2004,
and Atlanta visits in week four, there will be more than five fans in attendance. A healthy Mike Vick would
draw 10 fans at least. So until we get maybe a semblance of fair coverage from the sports columnists of
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly,” maybe you should swap “South” for “North” in your subtitle. After all, if you aren’t
going to provide equal time, at least be honest about what you are. Until then, I’m going to follow Mr.
Giglio’s lead and bite my tongue. Trash-talking, much like bandwagon-jumping, is better left to the post-game wrap-up.

Jeremy Trantham ’03

We are all elitists

As an active participant and frequenter of almost all of the “elite” groups mentioned in the Davidsonian’s article, “Examining the
Davidson ‘elite,’” I was shocked to learn that I am perhaps the most elite of anyone in our student body!
Just think, I go to Libertas meetings, I’m on the D.O. email list, and I even spend an occasional evening
at the Kappa Alpha Order! (By the way, the boys are actually pretty caught up in their masculinity and don’t
usually wear sundresses or pearls, though you were right on with the polo shirts observation...) Devastated by my apparent association
with this frowned-upon flaw, I ran to my best friend, the Oxford English Dictionary, and this is what he told
me: Elite is 1. A person chosen; a bishop elite. 2. election. Then he said he thinks the article may
have been referring to the word, “Elite” with an accent over the “e,” which means “the choice part or flower
(of society, or of any body or class of persons).” And that was all he said. With that in mind,
while I adore the Libertas, Davidson Outdoors and KA, I would by no means call them (as a group) “the
choice part...of society.” Certainly, they were chosen from the larger elite, which is, Davidson College. However, as for the cream
of the larger cream, there are certainly a few in each group, but the whole group? No way! I doubt
if they would claim such a title themselves! Of course, within the elite student body at Davidson, there are a
number of subgroup elites: athletes, Terry Scholars and English majors, to name a few. Even those extreme followers of the
much-beloved Dr. Kuzmonovich are part of an elite. But then again, who am I to judge? Oh...okay! I will! In
regards to elitist groups, take into consideration the Cambridge Program, for a moment. Its description reads, “Limited to 30 students,
the Cambridge Program...blah blah blah.” In fact, those are the first words of the description. Funny, sounds kind of selective,
almost as if one would have to be chosen to go. (By the way, everyone should go on the Cambridge
Program because it’s awesome.) Then, of course, we have to examine statements like: “I was drinking a Tetley’s in a
pub called The Anchor by a river named the Cam in the town of Cambridge last summer...” I mean, talk
about elitist—you’re name-dropping beverages, locations, rivers... will this elitist jargon never end!? It’s not necessarily bad to be exclusive. You
vie, apply, try then live or die. Life is exclusive. Cast not the first stone but rather realize that we
are all elitists. Best of luck in the future— Equalize the world!!!

Maggie McDougall ’04

IA DOSA FILOSA, BY LAURA FILOSA

I’m sure I’m not looking for the meaning of beating Bush.
