THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2004 . 15

’Cats return from tough California trip with two losses

The Wildcats lost to San Francisco and Santa Clara on the trip, but also gained valuable experience against playoff caliber
teams.

By Brian HELFRICH
Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team traveled west this past weekend to California for the adidas/Santa Clara Classic and suffered two tough
losses to very strong opponents. In their opening clash against former soccer powerhouse University of San Francisco last Thursday night,
the Cats were unable to maintain their 1-0 lead and fell to the Dons, 3-1.

The first half saw numerous Davidson scoring opportunities go for naught, as both sides were scoreless entering halftime. The Wildcats'
dominating play continued into the second half, as junior midfielder Will Carroll ’06 and sophomore striker Mac Wilkie ’07 both
missed close calls on the offensive end. In the 57th minute, Davidson finally tallied a goal, as sophomore forward Robbie
Reynolds ’07 buried a header to give the ’Cats the 1-0 lead. Reynolds’ second goal on the season came courtesy
of an assist by fellow sophomore front-liner Marco Antunez ’07.

The Wildcat lead lasted only six minutes, however, as a USF forward snuck behind the defense for the tying score.
“They scored a great goal to tie the game and with it they gained confidence,” said head coach Matt Spear.
San Francisco went on to score two more goals in the next twenty minutes, and Davidson lost 3-1. “It’s a
disappointing loss because we controlled the game and were up 1-0 in the second half,” Spear said. “It was a
game we were in control of, but [we] let it slip away. We had many scoring chances in the first
and second halves that we just couldn’t put away.”

The failure to capitalize on scoring opportunities has been a common theme throughout the season.

Women’s Soccer splits two games on road

Jessica Lahre '07 scores two goals in victory against High Point, but Wildcats drop ‘difficult’ game to tough competition at
Wake Forest.

By MICHAEL TELLIS
Staff Writer

The women’s soccer team split a pair of road games this past week against High Point and Atlantic Coast Conference
foe Wake Forest, beating the Panthers on Wednesday but falling to the Demon Deacons on Friday in Winston Salem.

The Wildcats continued their fine early-season run earlier in the week, as they beat High Point 3-1 on Wednesday. Forward
Jessica Lahre ’07 scored twice in the second half on assists from Kara Koehrn ’06 and Heidi Wilbrandt ’07. Wilbrandt
then capped an impressive performance with her first goal of the season and Davidson’s third of the game in the
69th minute to put the match out of reach. Anne Stevens ’07, who seems to be involved in almost every
Wildcat goal this season, assisted in Wilbrandt’s goal. High Point finally managed to score against freshman goalie Bevin English ’08
in the 79th minute of play, but by then the game was a foregone conclusion. The win boosted Davidson’s record
to 4-2 this season.

According to head coach Greg Ashton, the victory over the Panthers was the ’Cats’ best offensive game of the season.
“At halftime I was disappointed that we hadn’t gotten any goals. But then we had a couple of fine headers
in the second half. We had a lot of scoring opportunities and could have won by an even greater margin.”

The ’Cats were hoping to continue their winning ways on Friday against the Demon Deacons, but Davidson was unable to
hold off an early Wake Forest onslaught in a 4-2 loss. Davidson went behind by two goals early in the
game, as Wake Forest netted a pair of shots in the first 15 minutes of play. Davidson fought back, as
Koehrn responded with a goal minutes later to pull the ’Cats within 2-1. The Wildcats went into the locker room
still down 2-1 at the half, but Wake Forest used a relentless offensive attack in the second half to score
two more goals and put the game out of reach for the Wildcats. Still, the Wildcats had their chances in
the contest, as three Davidson shots hit the crossbar but did not find the back of the net. Also, despite
allowing three goals on the day, Hobart had a solid performance in goal with eight saves overall, including one on
a second-half penalty kick. Wilbrandt then struck in the 89th minute to register her second goal of the season and
pull the Wildcats to within 4-2, but it was too little too late for the Cats.

“It was a difficult game. We went behind early but then came back. We hit the posts a few times.
We are disappointed whenever we lose,” said Ashton."We lose, but so long as we are learning from each performance, it
serves us well," said Ashton. The defeat has also not affected team morale much, as evident from the attitude of
defender Kara Hawkesworth ’07. "Wake Forest is a great team. Even though we lost, it was a good game. We
hit the posts on three occasions and are not the type of team that is going to give up if
we are scored against."

This week the ’Cats hope to maintain their stay atop the Southern Conference standings when they travel to Elon on
Wednesday. Davidson started their conference slate on a winning note earlier this month, beating Appalachian State 4-1, but defender Robin
French ’07 says, "We are focused on our conference game against Elon. It is a big game and we hope
that it is a good one." Ashton believes that the game will be tough and is hoping for the best.
In his words, "I hope that we can come back [this Wednesday] with a win. Elon has a tough schedule
with a lot of non-conference games. This is their first conference game and they will be fired up. We are
hoping to make our conference record for this season 2-0."

The ’Cats then have another big game on the road this Friday against Duke, and Davidson will be looking to
avenge last year’s 7-0 loss to the Devils. "Duke is ranked in the top 25. It is a great opportunity
to take on strong opposition," according to Ashton. Hawkesworth says, "The team is really excited about the Duke game. Our
game against Wake Forest shows that we can play well against anybody."

The young season thus far has seen the Wildcats outshoot the Dons 9-6 for the game. For just the second
time in this young season, however, the offensive inefficiency resulted in a Davidson loss. The ’Cats were back in action
on Saturday night, and they fell 3-0 to No. 4 Santa Clara. The host Broncos dominated the game early on,
and Davidson could not recover quickly enough to keep the game within reach. Still, the game against the powerhouse Broncos
was a good early test for the young Wildcats. "Playing such a good team early on in the season is
a huge learning experience for us, win or lose," Spear said. Santa Clara possessed size and speed that proved too
much for the ’Cats. The Broncos scored early and often, putting away three goals in the first 37 minutes of
the contest. Davidson, missing a few key players for the weekend, battled tirelessly, but the quick three-goal deficit was too
much to overcome.

The game did allow all 18 Davidson players that made the trip to receive significant playing time. Their second-half effort
only resulted in one shot, by freshman midfielder Robby Hoak ’08, and the ’Cats were outshot 14-1 for the game.
"Santa Clara is a great team. They high-pressured us, we didn’t react, and we let it slip away," Spear said.
"The game did allow us to play all of our guys that made the trip. Jordan Hauser ’06 and Jon
Bassett ’08 played particularly well in the second half." Reynolds was named to the all-tournament team for the first time
in his career, and teammate Joey Bass ’05 made his second all-tournament team in as many weekends. The ’Cats have
a brief eight-day hiatus before their game next Sunday afternoon at College of Charleston.

From Spectator, page 12:
Various promotions at each of these feature games are an effort to bring fans out to field hockey, women’s soccer,
and cross country, along with the mainstream sports such as football and basketball. But let’s not just wait for those
featured match-ups, as our teams need us now, as they do every time they suit up here on campus. Let’s
start the trend this homecoming weekend, as football, volleyball, and field hockey all have games at Davidson after early season
road swings. Show up to homecoming on Saturday, enjoy the festivities, and help the football team turn around a tough
start to the 2004 season against Butler. Get out to Belk Arena on Friday night for volleyball’s SoCon opener against
the Citadel, or to field hockey’s Sunday match-up with Radford before they hit the road again for almost a month.
If not this weekend, just get out there and support the team sometime during the year, or congratulate the players
on a good game when you see them on campus. Hopefully, then we might someday be able to live up
to the dreaded "wine-and-cheese" label that still haunts the Tar Heels.

STSTRAVEL.COM 1-800-648-4849 / www.ststravel.com
