THE DAVIDSONIAN

photo courtesy of Sports Information

Brendan Winters ’06 drives to the basket during an early-season loss in Cameron Indoor Stadium

With one of the most difficult schedules in the nation, it is no wonder wins have been hard to come
by

By Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

Men’s basketball head coach Bob McKillop wishes he could restart the season today. Sure, you could point to the team’s
7-9 overall record or 2-3 conference record as obvious reasons to shake the Etch-a-Sketch of this season and start anew.
You could point to the slew

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2004 13

Men’s basketball hopes tough schedule will pay off in the second half of the season

of lopsided early-season losses or the turnovers that have evaporated many a Wildcat lead or comeback.

There are many aspects of this season that, given the opportunity, the team would choose to rectify, but Coach McKillop’s
desire is not to erase a few unpleasant memories but to capitalize on the valuable knowledge the Wildcats have gained
thus far. In short, he believes that Davidson basketball is better for having endured its early-season struggles and will benefit
from its experiences as the season progresses.

The Wildcats’ season until now can be divided into two definitive parts: non-conference games and the still-young conference season. Aside
from handing the Wildcats a collective 0-5 record, tough November and December games against the likes of Texas Tech, North
Carolina, Seton Hall, Georgetown, and Duke earned Davidson the top-ranked schedule in the nation. Are the losses worth the title
of Most Difficult Schedule? “I'd do it again,” reveals McKillop. The players, the coaching staff, and even the fans entered
the season with high hopes; consequently, the team’s struggles were disappointing for many. But the advantage of playing such a
difficult schedule, observes Coach McKillop, is learning what it takes to be a top-ten team.

Not to be forgotten is the players’ lack of experience with each other. Transfers Logan Kosmalski and Kenny Grant join
Nick Booker on the list of Wildcats who sat out last season.

...the advantage of playing a difficult schedule, observes McKillop, is learning what it takes to be a top-ten team.

As a result, the players had to accustom themselves to each other without much of a grace period at the
commencement of this season. McKillop defined this transition as a learning experience: “Players were adapting to roles they had never
had to play before.”

The conference season, while barely underway, has already shown much more promise for the Wildcats. An early-December game against perennial
conference favorite College of Charleston went down to the wire, with the Wildcats falling after leading for most of the
game. January signals the official opening of the conference season, and the Wildcats have already posted victories over The Citadel
and Western Carolina, while losing two more heartbreakers to Chattanooga and Wofford.

Despite the ‘Cats’ current losing conference record, McKillop emphasizes how close the games were, saying, “In each of those games
we were a possession or two from victory.”

Additionally, all three conference losses came on the road at venues that have been less friendly than Belk Arena.

While the first half of the season can be summed up as a learning experience, the future seems to hold
a better outlook. More than half of the Wildcats’ remaining games are at home, where Davidson is a perfect 7-0.
Additionally, the ’Cats have protected the basketball better lately, committing more than 14 turnovers only once in the last five
games, a vast improvement over their consistent forays into 20+ turnovers earlier in the season. Let us not forget that
the large-scale measure of success in the mid-major conferences lies in a conference championship and a bid to the NCAA
tournament.

Through all the ups and downs of their 16 games, the Wildcats have not given up. “We’ve been disappointed in
the losses, but never the effort,” comments Coach McKillop. “The tremendous effort of these players has been constant.”

photo courtesy of Sports Information
Conor Grace ’05 grabs a rebound during the ’Cats’ blowout at Duke

Retail Price of a Used Textbook based on data from

Copyright 2003-2004 Half.com. Half.com, the Half.com logo, eBay, and the eBay logo are trademarks of eBay Inc. All rights reserved.
"Average Retail Price of a New Textbook based on data from Follett Corp (as reported by The Associated Press in
January 2003). Average Half.com Price for New and Used Textbooks based on August/September 2003 sales of over 500,000 books sold
on Half.com. Quantities, pricing, and availability are not guaranteed and will vary due to supply and demand. Coupon is for
first-time buyers only. Limited time offer; excludes shipping and handling; offer subject to change or end without prior notice.

Same textbooks. Smarter prices.

How smart is this: All the textbooks you need for up to 50% off retail prices. New or used, all
you have to do is go to half.com and type in the book titles, or ISBN numbers. Then let nature
take its course.
