12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2004

Darryl Childers ’04 receives recognition for his outstanding season with I-AA Mid-Major All-American honors

By WALKER SAIC
Senior Staff Writer

After tying the Davidson single-season record with 11 sacks, recording 59 tackles, and forcing three fumbles, senior Darryl Childers was
“surprised” to be named to The Sports Network’s prestigious I-AA Mid-Major All-America Team this past Friday.

So what did the humble athlete have to say for himself?

“This award is a tribute to our defense as well. It might seem like it, but this isn’t really an
honor about individual effort. It takes a lot of different people on the team doing their jobs for anybody to
be successful.

“I’m just glad I had the people around me that I did, including a great group of coaches. I’m not
sure if me making the All-America Team says anything about the season or my career here at Davidson, but it
is definitely a credit to them.”

The defensive lineman from China Grove, NC finished his career with an eye-gauging 167 tackles, including 37 for a loss,
and 23 sacks. He was named 2003 Pioneer Football League’s Co-Defensive Player of the Year for the South Division and
had a Co-Defensive Player of the Week honor for his efforts against Dayton during the homecoming nail-biter.

While Childers sees the award as a great culmination to his career, he admits that he’s “going to miss [football]
a lot... so you never know what I might end up doing if a good opportunity to keep playing presents
itself.”

Don’t expect to talk to the excitable Childers, though, without a plug about Davidson football.

“I want everybody to know that it was a rough season, but don’t count Davidson football out,” he said. “The
team’s already working hard and getting ready for next year. Expect a much better season. If everybody comes out in
support of our team, it can make for some really exciting games.”

Childers finished his Davidson career in style, tying the single-season school record for sacks with 11 in 2003.

Along with tight end Mike Chase ’03, Childers is only the second Wildcat to ever receive this honor.

“I’ve never received any type of recognition like this,” he continued, “so this is really something special.”

From Wrestling, page 16

and earned a pin at the 4:57 mark.

Henry Blue ’06 showed some heart by coming from behind in his first two matches of the day to earn
a pin and a decision for the team. He ended the day with a second-place finish after a loss in
the 149-pound final.

Co-captain Adam Sperling ’04 gave the team another spark with his 10-0 major decision in the 157-pound final. Marcus Boyd
’07 wrestled in one of the most exciting matches of the day, earning a clutch 11-9 overtime victory in the
165-pound final. Mark O’Hair ’04 had a nail-biter of his own, riding out his opponent in the final seconds of
the third period to hold on to a 9-8 lead in the 174-pound final.

The team finished with a total of nine wrestlers in the finals, six of whom took first place.

Winning the tournament is a major boost in confidence for the team, yet with this win under their belts, the
Wildcats head into an even tougher weekend of serious Division I competition.

“The team morale now is high,” said Leonard, “but we realize that this past weekend is behind us, and we
are already focused on this coming weekend, when we’ll be wrestling much bigger and better teams like UVA and UNC.”

The Wildcats head back to Lexington on Friday, January 23 to face VMI.

Half.com

Retail

You do the math.

How smart is this: All the textbooks you need for up to 50% off retail prices. New or used, all
you have to do is go to half.com and type in the book titles, or ISBN numbers. Gotta love that
new math.

Retail Price of a Used Textbook based on data from Monument Information Resources. Average Half.com Price for New and Used
textbooks based on an Aug 2003 study of over 500,000 books sold on Half.com. Prices and availability are not guaranteed
and will vary due to supply and demand. Coupon is for first-time buyers only. Limited time offer; excludes shipping and
handling; offer subject to change or end without prior notice.

Copyright 2000-2004 Half.com. Half.com, the Half.com logo, eBay, and the eBay logo are trademarks of eBay Inc. All rights reserved.
*Average Retail Price of a New Textbook based on data from Follett Corp (as reported by The Associated Press in
January 2003). Average Retail Price of a Used Textbook based on data from Monument Information Resources. Average Half.com Price for
New and Used textbooks based on an Aug 2003 study of over 500,000 books sold on Half.com. Prices and availability
are not guaranteed and will vary due to supply and demand. Coupon is for first-time buyers only. Limited time offer;
excludes shipping and handling; offer subject to change or end without prior notice.

Same textbooks.

Smarter prices.
