THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2004 5

The Davidsonian’s guide to Election 2004

COMPILED BY DAVID CROW AND ZACH WILLIAMS
Editor-in-Chief and Managing Editor

The 2004 election is shaping up to be one of the closest and most polarizing in American history. In order
to provide the Davidson community with a quick reference guide for voters, The Davidsonian has compiled a list of each
presidential candidate’s positions on the major issues. Additionally, since many Davidson students are registered to vote in North Carolina, we
have provided a similar rundown of the positions taken by the candidates for U.S. Senate from North Carolina, Erskine Bowles
and Richard Burr. Finally, we have provided brief descriptions of several important issues to watch out for next Tuesday night
that could affect the ultimate outcome of the election.

Battleground States

With the presidential election likely to come down to the electoral wire, both the Bush and Kerry campaigns have focused
almost exclusively on the so-called “battleground states” in the waning days before November 2. Although each side can rely on
getting the electoral votes of some major states (for example, Texas for Bush and California for Kerry), the closeness of
this year’s election has turned the attention of campaigners to these less predictable but increasingly important battleground states that have
significant numbers of electoral votes but could still swing either for the Democrats or Republicans on election day. In the
electoral college’s winner-take-all process, winning a majority of the popular vote in most or all of these battleground states is
crucial in order to attain the 270 electoral votes needed to win the election.

Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Florida are among the most important battleground states in this year’s election. With 20, 21, and 27
electoral votes respectively, it is almost a necessity that the winning candidate wins at least two of these three states.
In all three of these states, and especially Ohio, the hot-button issue today is jobs. Although Ohio is slowly gaining
jobs back, the state has lost 200,000 since Bush took office. Despite overall economic improvement in Florida, the state lost
almost 10,000 jobs last month. In Pennsylvania, jobs have actually been consistently on the rise for a year now. Taking
all these numbers into account, both Bush and Kerry continue to try to spin the job outlook in their favor.

In Florida, home to the 2000 election debacle, high numbers of immigrants make the state’s diverse population hard to gauge
politically. Although Bush’s brother Jeb is a popular governor in the state, Bush’s narrow Florida win in 2000 is believed
to have galvanized the Democrats and should help get out the vote for John Kerry. In Ohio, Bush continues to
emphasize what many see as his strengths on terrorism and homeland security. Polls show that in Pennsylvania, on the other
hand, voters may have recently turned to Kerry precisely because of uncertainty over Bush’s handling of Iraq. All three of
these states, while extremely important to both candidates, will likely remain too close to call right up until election day.

The Colorado Referendum

Come November 3, this year’s major electoral controversy could be seen, not in Florida, but in the seemingly benign state
of Colorado. With only nine electoral votes and Bush’s consistent lead over John Kerry in the polls, Colorado would probably
be of little importance in this year’s election if it were not for the attachment of Referendum 36 on the
November 2 ballot. The referendum, if passed, would go into effect immediately and split the state’s electoral votes proportionally according
to the popular vote. In this case, if Kerry were to win 45 percent of the vote and Bush won
55 percent, instead of Bush getting all nine electoral votes, he would only get five while Kerry would receive four.
With numerous lawsuits being threatened, one might think Colorado voters would want to avoid such an electoral aberration.

On the major issues

Kerry
The Economy
Education
Foreign Policy
Believes in building broad coalitions before taking military action as a last resort.
Voted against the $87 billion proposal to provide support for troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Social Security
Opposes personal retirement accounts.
Opposes raising the retirement age.
Stem Cell Research
Says he would provide federal funding for stem cell research.

Bush
The Economy
Has significantly cut taxes.
Education
Supports the No Child Left Behind Act.
Foreign Policy
Believes in the U.S. policy of pre-emption and says the U.S. can and should act unilaterally to protect itself if
necessary.
Invaded Iraq and claims the world is safer without Saddam Hussein in power.
Successfully overthrew the Taliban in Afghanistan where elections were recently held.
Social Security
Wants to give workers the option of placing some of their Social Security tax into personal retirement accounts.
Has not ruled out raising the retirement age.
Stem Cell Research
Has allowed limited federal funding for stem cell research.Federal funding for a limited number of existing stem cell lines has
been allowed, but federal funding is refused once those existing lines are used. Colorado would be the first state to
ever institute an awarding of its electoral votes based solely on the popular vote. If the referendum were to pass
and the election was so close that it hinged on Colorado’s nine electoral votes, the results of this year’s election
could again be subject to intense political disputes and prolonged legal controversy.

Recent National Polling
Popular Vote
Bush: 51%
Kerry: 46%
10/25/04; +/- 3 margin of error
CNN/USA Today/Gallup

Projected Electoral Votes
Strong/Leaning Bush: 227
Strong/Leaning Kerry: 225
Still up for grabs: 86
10/26/04; estimated by the New York Times

On the contrary, recent polls are showing a hefty 47 percent of likely Colorado voters support the referendum while only
35 percent oppose it. Although Maine and Nebraska both have partially proportional electoral systems, Colorado would be the first state
to ever institute an awarding of its electoral votes based solely on the popular vote.

What if there is an electoral tie?
One of the scenarios pollsters and political pundits have recently brought up is the possibility that neither President Bush nor
Senator Kerry will receive the necessary 270 electoral votes needed to win the presidency. Instead, there are several possible scenarios
in which the two candidates tie with 269 electoral votes apiece. While this situation might seem unlikely, it is a
real possibility. For instance, if all the states voted the same way they did in 2000, with the exception of
New Hampshire and West Virginia going Democratic, then each candidate will have 269 electoral votes.

If such a situation did occur, how would the election be decided? The first possibility is that both sides would
try to convince a member of the Electoral College to change their vote. Although electors are sworn to vote for
a specific candidate, there have been 10 electors in the history of the country who have switched their votes for
various reasons. Most recently, an elector from Washington D.C. refused to cast any ballot in the 2000 election as a
protest against Washington’s lack of voting representation in Congress.

Assuming that neither side can convince an elector to change his or her vote, the decision goes to the House
of Representatives. However, individual House members do not vote. Rather, each state’s delegation in the House gets one vote, regardless
of that delegation’s size. Delegations in which the vote is tied must abstain from voting. The current makeup of the
House has Republicans controlling 30 state delegations, the Democrats 15, with four tied and one independent. Given this breakdown, it
seems likely that a tie in the Electoral College would result in a victory for President Bush.

Getting out the vote
With the 2000 election decided by just 537 voters in the key battleground state of Florida, and with President Bush
and Senator Kerry virtually neck and neck in most polls, Republicans and Democrats alike are taking no chances when it
comes to registering new voters and ensuring a high turnout among their respective bases this year.

Perhaps the most significant attempts to get out the vote this year have been in the huge numbers of new
voters both sides have registered in key battleground states. In the battleground state of Ohio, a study found that new
registration in key Democratic areas, such as urban and poor minority neighborhoods, has increased 250 percent since 2000. In comparison,
new registration in largely Republican areas of Ohio has increased by only 25 percent. Despite this seeming discrepancy between registration
in Democratic and Republican areas, it is still unclear whether or not these new voters will actually turn out to
the polls on Election Day.

In addition to registering new voters, both Republicans and Democrats are trying to rally their base supporters. Earlier this week,
both sides deployed some of their most popular faces to stump for their respective candidates. The Republicans unleashed both former
New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani and California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger to campaign for the President, while former President Bill Clinton
made his first public appearance since having heart bypass surgery to campaign for Senator Kerry.

Other efforts to increase turnout among the core constituencies include placing several initiatives on the ballots in states. The most
prominent among these initiatives are state efforts to ban same-sex marriage, either by altering their state constitutions or by creating
statutes requiring that married partners consist of one man and one woman. Republicans hope that these initiatives will make many
of their core supporters more likely to come to the polls on Election Day.

Even with all these efforts to increase turnout, it remains unclear if any of them will make a significant difference
to the final outcome of the election.
