By Steve Kalifki
Senior Staff Writer

Near the end of “Closer,” the seething new relationship flick from Mike Nichols, the pathetic and self-confident Larry (Clive Owen)
confronts the pathetic and desperate Dan (Jude Law) with a dose of reality. “Have you ever seen the human heart?”
asks Larry rhetorically. “It’s a fist, soaked in blood.” No other image quite as accurately captures the brilliant and demoralizing
passions of “Closer,” a talky drama more vicious than any action movie on the market today.

This adaptation of Patrick Marber’s play is a romance, yes. It is about love, sex, and honesty, true. But it
addresses these sensitive issues with such a feverish anger that it obviously has no interest in painting the human heart
as a beautiful thing. “Closer” is out for blood, and with mesmerizing performances, piercing dialogue, and riveting direction, it succeeds
as this holiday season’s official downer.

“Closer” opens with a few moments of fairy tale harmony. Dan and Alice (Natalie Portman) fall in love at first
sight after they spot each other across a busy London intersection. Sadly, Alice forgets to look both directions before she
steps onto the road, leading to a lost fight with an oncoming taxi. Dan takes her to the hospital, and
they fall in love. Cue the romantic intrigue.

Dan eventually falls for his photographer, Anna (Julia Roberts), who doesn’t love him back. To play a joke on her,
Dan pretends to be Anna in a London sex chat room, asking the cluelessly horny Larry to meet him/her at
the London Aquarium. Larry and Anna do meet, and eventually they marry. But Anna now loves Dan. And Larry likes
Alice. But Larry really loves Anna. And each character has sex with precisely the wrong person at the wrong time.
Multiple times. Or something.

To make a long story short, love is not patient and love is not kind. These four souls are all
relentlessly drawn to one another, and the reasons behind their countless liaisons span the continuum between true love and physical
desire. Tragically, not one of these characters recognizes whether their attractions are spiritual or sensual, and the result is a
hellish cycle of give-and-take that drives each of them into deeper and deeper deceit.

On the surface, “Closer” appears an abrasive and irrelevant study of truly miserable people. Mercilessly chronicling the banal betrayals that
result from the romantic overlapping among these four lonely individuals, the movie is consistently unpleasant, asking the audience to accept
an idea that no one this side of fatalism would ever want to believe—that love is an inherently ugly practice.

Viewers will no doubt consider the plights of Law, Owen, Roberts, and Portman as exceptions to the rule. After all,
don’t most couples enjoy clean relationships that effectively avoid the repeated backstabbing explored by the film? The only joy some
people may experience in this film is determining which of the characters is the most dismal.

However, a closer look at “Closer” reveals something deeper about the nature of human trust and honesty. Even if the
film does not resonate for some on its literal, sexual level, it does challenge viewers to question whether or not
they can ever truly trust anyone other than themselves. The hyperbolic brutality of the characters may seem forced, but it
makes the movie’s point abundantly clear. Why do people ask for the truth if they do not have the maturity
to hear it?

I will not give away the ending, but I will say that Nichols’s searing staging of the final reveal between
Portman and Law poses this interesting question, and the answer is not a clean one. If you really want the
truth, Nichols seems to say, be ready for a deadly answer.

Regardless of how audiences react to the subject matter of “Closer,” no one can deny that the quartet of performers
triumphs in every respect. As the manipulative Anna and the despicable Dan, Roberts and Law each deliver their most uncompromising
megastar turns to date. The stunning Portman continues her rapid recovery from Star Wars Amidala syndrome, and Owen is nothing
less than a revelation. As Larry, this rising British star conveys perversion, fear, humor, and confusion in deft, balanced strokes.
If the Academy hands out...Only one nomination out to this superb ensemble, I hope it goes to _

A ‘Festivus’ for the rest of us: ‘Seinfeld’ tradition carries on

George’s father and the Festivus pole.

By SARAH ROBINSON
Arts & Living Editor

As the finals pile on and my tenure at The Davidsonian ends, I am reminded of the many crazy things
students do at this time of year. There have been sightings of multiple people on single bikes, signaling a much-needed
break from reality. However, the time of holiday cheer is here and as Davidson celebrates diversity, a question was recently
posed to me about the lack of recognition of other religious holidays, most particularly, the presence of a Christmas tree
in the Union without any thought to the traditions of Ramadan and Hanukkah, which are also celebrated this time of
year. Sadly, this goes overlooked as we scurry around to the library and computer labs.

One holiday which stands out from the rest around this time is Festivus. While it is not a holiday, Festivus
is a special tradition in the minds of select Davidsonians who participate each year. For those who don’t know, Festivus
was created by the writers of “Seinfeld.” In “The Strike,” the crew discovers that George’s father created Festivus because he
was “tired of the commercial and religious aspects of Christmas.” The celebration includes an airing of grievances, the feats of
strength, and a Festivus pole. The airing of grievances allows people to tell others what they think of them, while
the feats of strength display who is strongest. The pole replaces the tree or menorah as the symbol of the
holiday.

At Davidson, the 3rd Watts hall of 2002-2003 carried on this tradition. People watched the episode and then ventured down
to Commons to enjoy a meal of... somewhat good food and better company. It concluded with the airing of grievances
and feats of strength. During this time of the year, this break between the monotony of finals comes at a
great time. It became something to anticipate and provided the opportunity to see people outside of the busy rat race
of December. Last year, the tradition grew exponentially and the room in which students watched the episode was quite full.
The fact that it was in Little might help explain the claustrophobic feeling. Festivus was still “organized” by the guys
of 3rd Watts and they guided the growing group down to Commons... forgetting to warn the establishment of the flux
of people. The facility had no reason to complain because their side of the dining hall was left the way
it was found.

Excited about the continuation of the tradition, Michael Flake ’06 and Barratt Park ’06 have organized this year’s festivities. Asked
why they participated the first year, both responded, “we were just kind of there.” Exploring the growth of the tradition
at Davidson, Flake explained “we tried to put our own spin on it.” Including the viewing of the episode serves
as a tribute to the originators of the holiday. Some anti-Commons students will also be in attendance, breaking their resolution
to not eat in the dining facility so that they may participate once again. As one of the Anti-Commons crowd,
Joseph Adams ’06 stated, “If there’s anything that can motivate me to visit Commons, it’s Festivus.”

This year, the feats of strength will include a rematch between Park and his roommate, Ben Meza ’06, who competed
last year when Park emerged as the victor in a contentious match that took place. When asked the point of
observing the holiday Park stated, “that should be left as a rhetorical question.”

While no one likes taking finals, this is nevertheless a time to enjoy the end of another semester. It is
a time when you can talk to your friends, have fun, and not run around to all the meetings normally
scheduled. We are the most in control of our lives, and we can choose when/if to study, take exams, sleep,
eat, and celebrate the holidays. It is a hint of what is to come; yet, it is a unique time
because life does not have these breaks. Whatever comes in our grades, we know that four more classes are done
and we are that much closer to joining the real world.

For those interested, Festivus will commence on Monday, Dec. 13 at 5:30. The “Seinfeld” episode will be aired at this
time in the rooms of 1st Cannon. Everyone is welcome and may your holidays be bright.

STSTRAVEL.COM
Join America’s #1 Student Tour Operator
1-800-648-4849 / www.ststravel.com
