DAVIDSON COLLEGE
"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17, 2004
First Class U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1 Davidson, NC
VOLUME 95, NUMBER 19

Art majors’ trip to Madrid cancelled out of respect, safety
By AMANDA STEPHENS
Senior Staff Writer

In light of the recent bombings that occurred in Madrid on the morning of Thursday, March 11, the senior seminar
studio art majors’ trip was cancelled. After discussing the matter amongst students, administrators, art department faculty, and some parents, it
was decided that for reasons of safety and respect it would be best not to go. The trip, led by
Professor Shaw Smith, the head of the Davidson art department, was supposed to depart for Spain on March 13 and
return March 19.

Fourteen senior art history students were to have gone on the trip. Thanks to the generosity of an art history
alumna, most of the trip’s expenses were to be paid by the school. “Our class has been preparing for this
trip since the beginning of the semester and our professor has been working extremely hard on it for over a
year! Because of that long period of time, we all devoted to the trip it was definitely a disappointment when
we had to cancel it,” said art student Pryor Dawson ’04.

According to the original itinerary, students had planned to visit many different art museums in Madrid, so that they could
view some of the original works of Spanish art they have been studying since mid-January. The Prado, a world-famous art
museum and destination of the cancelled trip, is located only one block away from the Atocha commuter train station, one
of the recent bombing sites.

In spite of obvious disappointment, a majority of the art students agreed that it was best to cancel the trip.
Many were concerned with issues of safety. Art student Grace Pate ’04 said, “If the bombing could be traced to
ETA it would be an isolated and politically motivated attack, and so I wouldn’t be scared to be an American
in Spain.”

see Madrid, page 3

Author Michael Cunningham to speak

ACAC president Judie Kaplan discusses her father’s struggle with AIDS at Saturday’s event that hosted over 500 people.

Red and Black Ball raises over $10,000
500 attend Metrolina AIDS Project Benefit
By SARAH-GRACE WESLEY
News Editor

On Saturday night in Chambers Gallery, around 500 students, faculty, and community members attended the First Annual Red and Black
Ball to benefit the Metrolina AIDS Project. Davidson College and Warner Hall co-sponsored the event, which included a silent art
auction, speakers, a band, and desserts. Overall, the evening raised a net sum of over $10,700, surpassing the goal of
$7,000. Profits came mostly from ticket sales, the art auction, private donations, and fundraising from members of Warner Hall.

Emily Moore, Co-Service Chair for Warner Hall, reported that the total amount raised was still increasing. “More [money] is still
coming because we receive donation checks daily,” Moore said.

In attendance at the ball was College President Bobby Vagt, who expressed great admiration for the phenomenal turnout and success
of the evening. “I am both grateful and very appreciative of those who put so much time and effort into
[the event],” Vagt said.

Davidson College faculty, students, and alumni, along with several local private galleries and homeless persons from Urban Ministry Art Works
945 contributed art for the auction. Close to $5,000 of the night’s profits came from art sales. “We wanted to
spread awareness through the power of art because...A painting can express more than a see Ball, page 3

Understaffed Public Safety not a problem, says Walker
By Les HeMPson
Senior Staff Writer

According to Director of Public Safety Fountain Walker, Public Safety has been understaffed since at least last August. Walker attributed
this understaffing to a string of bad luck: one sergeant could not continue working full-time because of a physical impairment,
and an officer hired by the department last summer developed an illness in August and could not complete his basic
law enforcement training.

Others are claiming that the vacancies are actually the result of forced resignations. Former Assistant Director Jim Lyon said that
he was forced to resign on January 5. Lyon, who had been with the department since August of 2001, also
served as interim Director from April to June of 2003 after the departure of then-Director Sam McKelvey. According to Lyon,
Walker informed him that he had violated department policy by letting “[his] wife carry [his] department-issued cell phone” and instructed
him to resign.

Walker disputed Lyon’s explanation, asserting that the resignation was a “joint decision.” He said the cell phone incident was merely
“something that helped [the resignation process] along.” Walker added, “I think there were just some issues about communicating and understanding
what the overall goals were for the department. [The goals] were spelled out and there was just a matter of
doing it.” Walker, citing the College’s policy of keeping personnel decisions confidential, declined to comment further on the matter. Lyon
could not be reached for additional clarification.

Sergeant Dane Laney left the department on January 12. While Laney expressed a desire to keep the reasons for his
departure “confidential” at present, he said that he would probably be willing to elaborate on his resignation next semester. Before
January 12, Laney had planned to continue with the department for another 10 years.

When reached by telephone, McKelvey said that he had nothing to “gain” by discussing his resignation which officially occurred last
May before Commencement. Lyon said that McKelvey was

see Safety, page 5

Freshmen arrested for duffel bag stunt
By BEN WHIGHAM
Staff Writer

While returning home is a routine exercise for most Davidson students, two freshmen’s use of an athletic bag landed them
behind bars this spring break. After an odd stunt involving a duffel bag and an impressive showing of flexibility, Dan
Troyen-Schwartz ’07 and Molly Sawyer ’07 now face charges of obtaining property under false pretenses.

Authorities report that the pair lacked the money to pay for a second bus ticket for the ride from Charlotte
to South Hero, VT. The two freshmen then attempted to steal a ride by hiding Sawyer in a duffel bag.
The two freshmen contend that they had no intent of deceitfully earning a ride and that the stunt was only
a joke. “We had no plan to go all the way,” says Schwartz. “It was meant as a joke.” Schwartz
also disagrees with how the police reported that he lacked the money for a ticket. “I was arrested with $140
in my pocket: the price of a one-way ticket,” he said.

The students’ stunt has drawn a good deal of attention due largely to the stunt’s improbable success. The 5’6” Sawyer
worked herself into the four-foot-long duffel bag, and the two snuck onto the bus without raising suspicion. Sawyer squeezed into
the bag in the fetal position, although it proved uncomfortable.

see Duffel, page 5

PERSPECTIVES: The war debate revisited SEE PAGE 10

Did terrorists decide elections in Spain? PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 11

Davidson loves Bob.
