THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Women’s Basketball runs with No. 6 Duke

STAFF REPORT

Davidson women’s basketball started the season off with a bang, opening with an exhibition victory over Lander and giving preseason
No. 6 Duke a hard-fought game before falling 89-69.

Their first action of the season was an exhibition against Lander, who enters the season ranked 18th in Division II.
In what will hopefully be a continuing trend, several Wildcats scored big points at crucial moments in the game. Davidson
went on a 15-5 scoring run midway through the first half of play to gain a comfortable 30-14 lead that
put control of the game in Wildcats’ hands.

Lander fought back to make it a competitive 39-30 game at the half, but four quick points by Janell Crayton
’05 gave the Wildcats a solid 17-point cushion with under ten minutes to play to essentially put the game out
of reach. Crayton, Emily Callahan ’05, and Cara Reed ’08 all scored in the double digits, with Reed scoring a
game-high 14 points in the first appearance of her collegiate career. Contributions were made all around, as nine players scored
and eleven played. Coach Annette Watts admitted that depth is a big goal for this team, “Our plan is to
have five scoring in double figures.”

Shortly after such a confidence booster of a first game, Davidson traveled to Cameron Indoor Stadium to play Duke, a
perennial national title contender and this year’s No. 2 ranked squad in the Atlantic Coast Conference. It was an intimidating
start to the Wildcats’ 2004-05 season, especially for a young team entering one of the rowdiest venues in the nation,
but the Wildcats stormed into Duke and played the Blue Devils as hard as possible all game.

“We prepared for Duke the same way we prepared for Lander, the same way we prepare for any game. We
had a plan, and we stuck to it,” stated Watts. Davidson actually opened up a quick 4-0 lead on Reed’s
first collegiate points, but Duke pulled ahead and held a nine-point lead at the half. The Blue Devils opened up
a 17-point lead with over ten minutes to play, but Duke was not able to pull away from the ’Cats
all night. With four minutes to go, Davidson was still down by only 11 points.

Most of Davidson’s points came from Reed, who scored a game-high 25 points, and Katie Hamilton ’07, who put up
21 points for the Wildcats, but the Wildcats shot at just a 37 percent mark for the game. Davidson also
struggled with turnovers, as the Wildcats coughed the ball up 23 times, including 9 turnovers by Hamilton. Still, the players
have learned a lot about themselves and the team during the past two games. “We showed everyone that we could
hang with the No. 6 team in the nation...We’re going to surprise some people this year,” said co-captain Emily Callahan.

After two games, the Wildcats look ready to take on anyone, but Watts admits that there are always things that
can be improved throughout the season. She says that she is always trying to find...

Club Sports Spotlight...

New Club Baseball team joins NCBA for first spring season

By Monica JAMOUNEAU
Staff Writer

Spring 2005 will mark the inaugural season for the brand new Davidson baseball club. The team was granted $1400 by
the ATC in a recent meeting to pay for the club’s expenses. This concession is only a portion of what
will be needed by the team to provide for uniforms, playing facilities, and membership in the National Club Baseball Association.

Formed in 2000, the NCBA had its first season in 2001 with 34 teams competing. It is the first-ever governing
body for club baseball in the United States and the only to have a national title. Dues for the NCBA
are $1500 for the initial year and $1000 each following year. Davidson will play in the Carolina West Conference, of
which Clemson, Wake Forest, UNCC, and Furman are also members. Season play includes three games against each of the conference
opponents, culminating in a chance to play in the organization’s World Series.

“We don’t have to be in the NCBA to have a club team here at Davidson,” said founder Roland Foss
’05, “But scheduling enough games would have been difficult. If we tried to independently contact teams [from other colleges] we
wouldn’t have as many games because they’d be busy playing important NCBA competitors.” Most colleges and universities that carry club
baseball and are within traveling distance of Davidson are members of the student-run association.

“Belonging to the NCBA [will] make our team much more legitimate. [We’ll] be paying a fee for membership, and [we’ll]
be getting more visibility. Having structure and following the rules [of the NCBA] gets us in the door,” said Foss.

There are 77 teams from all over the country included in the association, and an additional nine are slated to
play next season. The Davidson players, of which a majority are freshmen and sophomores, have been practicing three times a
week at the Lake Norman High School in Mooresville and the Hopewell High School in Huntersville, which was rated the
9th best high school baseball stadium in the state of North Carolina. Because of the lack of funds, the men
have had to supply their own equipment and pay for renting fields. Interest has not diminished, however, and the players
are determined to have a solid first season. Said Foss, “When I brought up the idea of playing in the
NCBA, the guys were all very enthusiastic.”

The first installment of membership fees in the association has already been paid with hopes that the college will eventually
reimburse the team. The idea for a baseball club was initially introduced by Foss this fall. “I started thinking about
it this summer...Then I put up a booth at the...activities fair and got a long list of names. "A lot
of guys were surprised that there was not already a club baseball team here,” he said. Along with the 29
men signed up to play now, eleven more have signed up to play in the spring. The constitution for the
club was ratified last week and elections for officials will be held soon. Emily Callahan ’05 and the ’Cats were
able to show that they can compete with top teams. * The right combination on the court, and the team
can’t hesitate to try new things. It is still key for this team to build confidence, and to gel as
a whole to make the long run to the Southern Conference Tournament in March. The Wildcats next play in the
C & L/Lancer Invitational Nov. 19 and 20. “The upcoming tournament will be a good test for us to see
how we are progressing and to see how we fair against some different styles of play,” said co-captain Hamilton.

From Demuro, page 12 Bonds breaking the record. Home runs are commonplace nowadays; almost too commonplace. Ballparks are smaller, and
cater to power hitters, baseballs are wound tighter (and thus carry better), strike zones are smaller (which is conducive to
hitters), pitcher mounds are smaller (which keeps a ball from sinking more), and baseball’s wood bats are better built to
have more ‘pop’ on the ball. Baseball is a different game than it was even thirty years ago. Thus, one
cannot look at Bonds’ record and compare it completely to Aaron’s; the MLB of today markets power hitters and home
runs, thinking that baseball fans do not wish to see pitcher’s duels. The average pitcher’s earned run average has skyrocketed
from 20 years ago, and teams carry more pitchers, as starters do not go as deep into games. The extra
pitchers carried by a team are pitchers who, 20 years ago, would have been playing minor league baseball, and these
extra relievers are not as talented as one would expect. There are also more teams in baseball, 30, than ever
before. With more teams all carrying more pitchers, the talent pool is spread thin, and the overall quality of pitching
decreases dramatically. Unfortunately, the MLB will not change its course here; baseball is arguably now more popular than ever. The
marketing of power hitters and high-scoring affairs have found popularity among fans that would not have generally paid attention to
the game closely. This is, I believe, unfortunate for baseball in the long run. Bud Selig and the game’s heads
have gone on too long sitting on their laurels while steroid controversy swirls, and the game becomes completely catered to
hitters and home runs. For baseball to “return to form,” there need to be major changes that take away advantages
from hitters, and return the game to a fair playing field between pitcher and batter.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2004

From Football, page 16 Following a short punt, the Hoyas led a quick scoring drive resulting in a field goal
to give them the early lead they would not relinquish. Following more Davidson offensive struggles, the Hoyas launched a touchdown
drive with 1:37 remaining in the first quarter, making the score 10-0. The ’Cats offense struggled throughout the first half,
hurt by several penalties and inconsistent play. The ’Cats launched one final drive in the first half into Hoya territory,
but Jones threw his second interception of the afternoon and put an end to the first half scoring chances. Ricky
Childers ’06 gave Davidson a scoring opportunity early in the second half when he picked off a pass at the
50-yard line, but the offense was again unable to capitalize and was forced to punt the ball away yet again.
The third quarter went scoreless, leaving the ’Cats down 10-0 entering the fourth. Both teams exchanged punts to begin the
quarter, but Georgetown caught a break when Jones threw his third interception of the game, which the Hoyas returned to
the Davidson 19. Following a short drive, Georgetown capitalized on their field position and scored a touchdown, making the score
17-0 and putting the game essentially out of reach. With Jones struggling, Damion White ’05 entered the game and led
a drive to the Georgetown 32-yard line, but facing a 4th and 6, the offense failed to convert. The Hoyas
immediately took advantage, launching a quick scoring drive to make the score 23-0 with just over five minutes remaining. For
the final drive of the game, freshman quarterback Matt McGreevy ’08 entered the game and led the ’Cats down the
field rapidly, getting to the Georgetown 28-yard line before throwing an interception on the last play of the game. Guard
Derrick Thompson ’07 said of the game, “Defensively we played a good game. We were just ineffective on offense, which
is disappointing because that has been the story of the season. We just couldn’t put together a complete game on
both sides of the ball.” John Leverett ended the game with 83 yards rushing, setting the new career rushing record
at 3,165 yards. Ryan Hubbard ’08 also managed a good game, gaining 65 yards receiving on seven catches, both career
highs for the freshman. On defense, Kevin Saunders ’05 led the team in tackles with nine, Childers contributed eight tackles
and an interception, and Dete recorded seven tackles, a forced fumble, two deflected passes, and a sack. Frankie Jones ’05
recorded a blocked field goal in the second quarter, as well as six tackles.

LEARN ONE OF 21 LANGUAGES

As a Soldier at the Defense Language Institute in Monterey, California, you'll learn one of 21 languages. And you don’t
need to speak a foreign language to qualify. Call Sgt. 1st Class Boyce at 563-0560 to find out about college
loan repayment and more Army benefits. army.com ©2001. Paid for by the U.S. Army. All rights reserved.
