By ANDREW SHAPIRO & VIRGINIA GREGORY
Restaurant Critics

We were expecting a small bar but instead were seated in an airy dining room. We anticipated a menu filled
with traditional tapas like fried artichokes and marinated lamb; instead, we found an array of sophisticated cuisine with a southern
twist. Above all, we looked forward to trying a variety of dishes without spending a small fortune, and here Vidalia
& Grapes met our expectation.

A crepe filled with quail confit and melted leeks does not come to mind when one imagines typical tapas bar
fare, but Vidalia & Grapes is far from your traditional Spanish tapas restaurant. Due to its southern hospitality, artfully crafted
fare, and extensive wine list, Vidalia & Grapes competes with more established restaurants as one of Charlotte’s most unique fine
dining experiences.

The beauty of tapas is the ability to build upon your preliminary order. Ordering at Vidalia & Grapes requires some
guidance from the wait staff. Our server explained that every item on the menu serves small tapas portions and that
most are also available as an entree. The menu is divided into light and heavy portions. The lighter fare offers
soups, starters, and salads, and the heavier courses have over 15 meat and seafood selections. We carefully considered each item
and its accompaniments as we enjoyed the homemade focaccia with sun-dried tomato-infused olive oil. We chose four small portions to
share and then held on to our menu, knowing that temptation would lead us to order another one or two.

The pistachio-encrusted, fried goat cheese salad certainly deserves an award for its presentation. Large pieces of pistachios guarded a smooth,
warm interior of delicious goat cheese. A ‘burrito’ of field greens tightly wrapped in a thin piece of prosciutto rested
on a plate drizzled with vinaigrette. Our other appetizer, a red pepper and black-eyed pea empanada with manchego cheese, delivered
a pleasant contrast of the creamy filling and the crisp, flaky phyllo shell.

Tim Henderson, a Johnson and Wales trained chef, impressed us with the abundant flavors and sophisticated presentations that accompanied our
petite entrees. The sea bass filet came atop a ‘paella’ of spaghetti squash, chorizo, and shrimp and was adorned with
a julienne of cucumbers. The unique flavors and textures of each part of the dish combined to form a complexity
of tastes, yet none masked the delicious, subtle flavor of the fish. The quail confit, which is cooked for 72
hours, was less heavy than the French make it, and we found it light, tender, and not overly gamey or
rich. Two quail legs, a lingonberry-Merlot chutney, and jus completed its delicate balance.

As we expected, four tapas did not quite satisfy our hunger, and curiosity led us to order a tender rack
of lamb that was succulent and well executed. A nice, warm strawberry pan dowdy served with homemade vanilla ice cream
rounded off our meal.

MARK YOUR CALENDAR
Did you know that eight percent of Davidson students are members of the Dance Ensemble? Yes, 134 dedicated dancers have
prepared yet another recital to remember. This spring’s performance incorporates styles such as tap, ballet, reggae, hip-hop, and jazz. The
musical score includes...Popular movie soundtracks and shower-songs from the sixties and eighties. Buy your tickets soon because this is a
show that is sure to sell out!

Spring Dance Ensemble: Friday, April 16 — Saturday, April 17. Show begins at 8:00 p.m. Tickets are $2.

Our meal was rounded out with cream. In addition to the numerous desserts available every night, the pan dowdy changes
nightly as do the cheesecake, the crème brûlée, and a variety of sorbets. Tapas-sized portions of a starter, entrée, and
dessert make a light meal; however, anyone with a large appetite should consider ordering an entrée-sized portion or two substantial
tapas as their main course. Because the prices range between five and $15, Vidalia’s tapas dishes can easily rival prices
at other upscale Charlotte restaurants, but this restaurant’s courses are justified by the quality and diversity of ingredients. The discerning
eye can piece together a meal for a good value that simply cannot be found anywhere in the Lake Norman
area.

The house manager, Alan White, informed us that “Vidalia” is meant to reflect the restaurant’s southern undertones and “Grapes” represents
the impressive wine list. Nearly 60 wines are offered by the bottle, the glass, and the ‘taste’. Flights, trios of
different wines, are also available and are a great choice at only ten dollars each. Unconventionally prepared martinis and various
after-dinner coffee concoctions complete the drink menu.

The professional yet down-to-earth service first impressed us when the manager seated us, took our jackets, and placed our napkins
in our laps. While those looking for a private evening might find that the friendly service approached the boundary between
interested and intrusive, we were won over by the end of the meal and appreciated our server’s knowledge and suggestions.

There is little coherence throughout the dining room, whose greatest assets are the large windows overlooking East Boulevard. Artificial grape
vines, black lacquer chairs, and flimsy tablecloths undermine the high-class food. We were surprised to hear that the restaurant opened
less than three years ago since its interior had led us to believe it might have been a product of
the 1980s. Simply put, Vidalia’s decor was not impressive. Still, few restaurants are worth the drive into Charlotte, and Vidalia
& Grapes is certainly one of them. While an intimate place for a date, the continuous ordering and sharing of
tapas is conducive to conversation and makes it an ideal place for small groups.

Located in the Dilworth area south of uptown, Vidalia & Grapes is surrounded by numerous bars and ice cream shops
that could make for a fun evening on the town. Reservations are suggested, and we recommend nothing less casual than
a polo shirt for men. Special fixed-price menus and additional wines are offered on Valentine’s Day and other special occasions.
Vidalia & Grapes is open for dinner only, Tuesday through Saturday.

Vidalia & Grapes
1626 East Boulevard
Charlotte, NC
(704) 358-8188

Restaurant Report Card
Food: A
Atmosphere: B
Service: A-
Value: A-

Average price for one person (excluding tax, tip, and beverages): $35

Snapshots of Davidson
The clash of the titans: Bud Light versus Booze It & Lose It.
