By Bossy DeMuRO Staff Writer

The Davidson men’s basketball team of 2003-04 was strong, fairly deep, and a perfect 13-0 in Belk Arena. But that
was last year. This year, the ’Cats return four of the five starters who guided the team to an 11-5
Southern Conference finish and the top seed in the SoCon Tournament, and the Wildcats enter the new year with hopes
of surpassing their semifinal exit at the hands of eventual champion East Tennessee State in the tournament last year.

According to recent polls of SoCon coaches and the media, as well as a prediction in The Sporting News, Davidson
has been picked to finish first in the South Division of the Southern Conference. Not only that, but Brendan Winters
’06 has been named to the Preseason SoCon All-League Team by the coaches after averaging 17.8 points per game a
year ago. When asked about these high expectations of the team and Winters, head coach Bob McKillop said, “The expectations
are a statement about the success the program has enjoyed.”

The ’Cats are well aware of the outlook here prior to the season, which begins Nov. 19 at the University
of Missouri, but these predictions have not changed the focus of the players. “The team has expectations of itself that
exceed those presented by others, including the media, fans, and alumni,” says McKillop. “The Conference Championship runs through Johnson City.”

Last year, even though Davidson entered the tournament 11-5 in conference play and seeded first out of the South Division,
East Tennessee State was the eventual winner and qualified for an automatic NCAA Tournament bid. Picked to finish first in
the North Division of the conference, the Bucs will again be one of Davidson’s biggest conference rivals. While ETSU loses
2004 SoCon Player of the Year, the ’Cats open the regular season in Columbia against Quin Snyder and the Tigers
of Mizzou. The Tigers are a perennial contender in the Big 12, but had a down year last year when
they failed to qualify for the NCAA tournament and lost to Michigan in the NIT. Missouri will also visit Belk
Arena next year as part of this two-year home-and-home series.

Nov. 22, Duke, 7:00 p.m., Charlotte Coliseum
In perhaps the biggest non-conference game of the year, the ’Cats host the in-state rivals from Durham at the Charlotte
Coliseum. Duke is ranked No. 11 in the preseason AP poll, and returns a strong group that includes Daniel Ewing,
Shelden Williams, and J.J. Redick, but Davidson will look to avenge a tough 88-54 loss in Durham from a year
ago. The game will also be televised nationally on ESPN2, the Wildcats’ only national TV appearance scheduled for this year.

Nov. 27, at St. Joseph’s, 7:00 p.m.
Davidson travels to Philadelphia to face the Elite Eight team from a year ago. NBA first-rounders Jameer Nelson and Delonte
West are gone, but the Hawks still return a strong squad under 2004 Coach of the Year Phil Martelli.

Nov. 30, Georgetown, 7:00 p.m.
The ’Cats host the Hoyas in one of their first tests at Belk Arena.

Dec. 4, at Georgia Southern, 7:30 p.m.
Davidson travels down to Statesboro, Ga. to open conference play against the underrated squad of GSU.

Dec. 8, Charlotte, 7:00 p.m.
Davidson hosts the cross-county 49ers of Charlotte in Belk Arena. This is the battle for the Hornets Nest Trophy, annually
given to the winner of this rivalry. Charlotte features a breakout star in Curtis Withers along with a supporting cast
that led the 49ers to the NCAA tournament last year.

Dec. 29, Seton Hall, 7:00 p.m.
With the students on break, the ’Cats welcome 2004 NCAA Tournament participant Seton Hall to Belk Arena.

Jan. 5, Furman, 7:00 p.m.
The ’Cats’ game against Furman marks their first home SoCon game of the year. They will try to keep their
impressive home SoCon winning streak alive against the rival Paladins.

Jan. 26, East TennesseeState, 7:00 p.m. Davidson welcomes the Buccaneers, the other projected division winner and NCAA participant for the
past two years, to Belk Arena. Watch for point guard Tim Smith, who may actually declare for the NBA draft
after his junior season if he can match his postseason play from a year ago, when he was the MVP
of the SoCon tournament and nearly led his team to a victory over No. 4 seeded Cincinnati in the NCAA
tournament.

Feb. 26, Wofford, 7:00 p.m. The ’Cats host the nearby Terriers in their SoCon regular season finale in what will
serve as a tune-up for the Wildcats’ run in the conference tournament.

Mar. 2-5, at Chattanooga, Tennessee, SoCon Tournament The Southern Conference Tournament, after being in Charleston for the past two seasons,
has moved to Chattanooga for the 2004-05 season. Here, Davidson will hopefully try to knock off East Tennessee State and
other conference opponents in their quest for an NCAA Tournament bid. Zakee Wadood, the Bucs return lightning-quick junior Tim Smith,
the 2003-04 SoCon tournament MVP that is regarded as one of the best point guards in college basketball. Smith’s quickness
makes ETSU a threat to run the ball at every opportunity, and he can break down the defense in both
the full and half court sets. When asked, Coach McKillop said, “ETSU is clearly the defending champion [having won both
of the past two seasons]. There’s no doubt that the conference championship runs through Johnson City [Tennessee, home of ETSU].”
Not only is ETSU a threat, but Chattanooga in the North Division and Georgia Southern and the College of Charleston
in the South Division are also thought of highly by media and conference coaches.

Strengths “We shoot the ball extremely well,” McKillop said. “We are very unselfish, we rebound effectively, and play like a
team of defenders. Also, we have a good basketball IQ.” The statistics would back much of this up; last season
Davidson shot at a .441 clip, out-shooting and out-scoring their opponents. As a team, Davidson averaged 73.1 points per game,
one of the better marks in the SoCon. Not only that, but the ’Cats held a +5.2 rebound margin over
their opponents, indicating their physicality and height advantages. Davidson returns the frontcourt of Logan Kosmalski ’05, Conor Grace ’05 and
Ian Johnson ’06 from a year ago, and should again dominate the boards with a deep and experienced group in
the post. On defense, the ’Cats held opponents to a shooting percentage lower than their own, and averaged 5.8 steals
per game as a team. Another strength, while not quite as tangible in the stat sheet, is the home-court advantage
the Wildcats are treated to in Davidson. Last year, the ’Cats were a perfect 13-0 at Belk Arena, including victories
over College of Charleston and Georgia Southern. Although this trend may be difficult to continue when Georgetown and Seton Hall
come to town, it is surely a plus when the ’Cats face off in the SoCon. Davidson has only lost
two SoCon home games in the past two seasons, including the perfect mark last year.

Weaknesses Weaknesses may be few and far between for the ’Cats this season, but there are several areas which need
some improvement. “Athleticism, size, and dribble penetration,” says Coach McKillop. “That’s about it.” With the loss of Nick Booker ’04
to graduation, the Wildcats are without one of their most athletic presences on both the offensive and defensive end from
a year ago. Size may be an issue against the likes of Duke and Missouri, but the Wildcats still sport
one of the deepest front-court rotations in the Southern Conference. Dribble penetration is another weakness outlined by Coach McKillop, although,
with the return of quality guards like Winters, Kenny Grant ’06 and Matt McKillop ’06, this issue may be fast-improving.
The guards will also need to do a better job of securing the ball on the offensive end, as Davidson
averaged 17.3 turnovers per game last season. In comparison, the Wildcats forced 15 turnovers per game.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2004 Search for a SoCon title
