14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2004

Swimming falls short against East Carolina

By ASHLEIGH FINN
Staff Writer

The swim team traveled to Greenville, North Carolina this weekend for its first road meet of the season. The Wildcat men and women faced East Carolina University in a challenging and highly competitive meet. The men and women ultimately fell to the Pirates, with the men’s final score of 152-91 and the women’s final score of 153-90.

With an addition of four freshmen to the women’s team and seven freshmen to the men’s, the Wildcat underclassmen came up strong for their fellow teammates. Will Broughton ’08 won the 1000 free with a time of 9:48.49. Adam Topaz ’08 came right behind Broughton in the 1000, placing second with a time of 10:02.02. Broughton also placed second in the 500 free (4:47.56). His twin brother, Robert Broughton ’08, came in second in the 200 fly with a strong time of 1:58.76. Vincent Nardone ’08 finished in the top-five in the 200 breast, as well as 5th in the 200 IM. Fellow teammate Fiete Steggar ’08 also finished in the top-five, placing second in the 200 free with a time of 1:46.23. Josh Pappas ’08 placed in the top-five in the 200 back.

Co-captain Brad Poole ’06 praised the efforts of the underclassmen, saying, “The addition of seven strong freshmen has allowed us to compete with strong teams such as ECU, which we have not been able to compete with in the past. Our seven new freshmen will significantly benefit our team as we head into conference opponents; I feel like we have, for the first time on the men’s team, the right combination of talent and size to shock and challenge our rivals.”

The women’s team has also seen an infusion of talent with the new crop of underclassmen. Kirsten Allen ’08 came in third in the 50 free (25.12) and fourth in the 100 free (55.21). Maddie Stough ’08 and Leslie Sherrill ’08 finished in the top-five in the 200 breaststroke, placing fourth and fifth respectively. Ivey McAliley ’08 had a strong third-place finish in the 200 fly. The ’Cats gave a tough performance despite the small size of their current team. Captains Jenny Hoekstra ’05 and Trisha Blackwell ’05 also performed well in their events. Hoekstra came in 5th in the 50 free and Blackwell came in the top-five in the 200 backstroke. Kristen Shields ’06, the lone junior swimmer on the team, notched an impressive fourth-place position in the highly challenging 500 freestyle.

When asked about the women’s performance against ECU, Blackwell stated, “Despite our small numbers, the women’s team rallied together to pull out some great swims and great races. Swimming against a school as large and as fully-funded as ECU gave us an awesome opportunity to race some fast competition and to challenge ourselves.”

The Wildcat men rallied together as well, with impressive top-five finishes from swimmers of every class. Junior Steve Tolson ’06, despite an arm injury, showed resilience and strength in his fourth-place swim in the 50 free. Calvin Schildknect ’07 and Charlie Raver ’07, two sophomores who have already begun to show strong leadership in the beginning of this season, pulled in important top-five finishes in their individual events. Schildknect finished in the top-five in the 200 breast and Raver came in third in the 50 free.

Davidson will travel to Fairfax, VA for its next meet in a quad-competition against George Mason, Drexel, and the College of Charleston. The level of motivation and competition already seen from the Wildcats foreshadows the high level of performance that fans should expect throughout the 2004-2005 season.

from Freshmen, page 16

Ojai, CA where she was the captain of her team. At the year’s end, she placed 19th at the state finals in Fresno, CA. According to O’Donnell, the transition from high school to collegiate races “has been pretty easy.” Speaking on the progress she has made, O’Donnell said, “Coach Jen [Straub] knows how to push us. As a result, I dropped 45 seconds from my high school personal record at Davidson’s first cross country meet at Wake Forest.” O’Donnell’s best time is a 19:24 and eventually she hopes to run “near 18:30.” Regarding her success thus far she said, “For the most part I am happy with my times and how I am able to help out my team points-wise. As for the success of the team, I am proud of where we stand.”

Burns has also made quite a difference this season, as she has consistently been in the team’s top-five. She ran to a 13th place with a time of 18:54.81 at the recent Furman Invitational and also placed 13th place in 18:31 at the Wake Forest Meet. From Asheville, NC, she went to Carolina Day School and ran for a “small but talented team.” Like O’Donnell, she says, “The adjustment to the college team was pretty easy for me.” She credits the smooth adjustment to her coach and her teammates, saying, “They’re like my family away from home, so going to practice each day is something Ilook forward to.” Burns’ best time for a 5K is 18:14 and she says “her next goal will be to break eighteen minutes.” Finally, Crawford is from Syracuse, NY, where she ran track and cross country. Impressively, she advanced to the state finals every year in cross country and three out of four years in track. At one point, she was ranked 8th in the nation for the indoor 3000 meters. So in addition to running cross country for Davidson, she will also be running track. Unlike the other two girls, Crawford considered the transition from high school to college “a huge jump,” as she had to work to become acclimated to some of the collegiate training regimens. Nonetheless, her impact has been huge. In the Wildcats’ last meet at Furman, Crawford finished second on the team behind Fillnow and fourth overall in the meet with a time of 18:24. Her best personal time, recorded in high school, is a speedy 17:52 and she hopes to be able to compete at nationals by her junior or senior year. Said Crawford, “I'd like to run in the low seventeens.” She would also like to place in the top five at conference and the top twenty-five at the regional meet. Most importantly, all three girls share a love for the team this year, as O’Donnell summarizes her thoughts by saying, “I love these girls.” Meanwhile, Crawford believes that the closeness has produced definite results. She says the competition in practice “is more like pushing each other.” Also, a common goal for the three is a strong performance at the SoCon Championship this Saturday at Furman, where the Wildcats have already run once this year. Said Burns, “I think our team goal should be to dominate at our conference meet this Saturday, and each year after that. We can definitely prove ourselves to be one of the best teams in the region.” Davidson will be able to look forward to the fulfillment of such a prediction both on the coming Saturday and in the next three years as O’Donnell, Burns, Crawford, and others on the team continue to develop.

From Soccer, page 16

Davidson dominated the game early on, gaining the 1-0 advantage when David Sartorio ’06 converted on a penalty kick. Unfortunately, Davidson failed to capitalize on additional chances and Elon hung in the game, gaining confidence in the process. The Phoenix capitalized on one of their numerous counter-attacking chances and knotted the game at 1-1, a score that held up through the first period. Elon came out in the second half playing a smarter, more possessive brand of soccer and they took a one-goal lead just five minutes after halftime. Davidson failed to give in, however, and great saves by Bart Creasman ’05 kept them in the match. Davidson struck again, however, as Robbie Reynolds ’07 headed home a beautiful service from Marco Antunez ’07, equalizing the match at 2-2. The goal forced the fourth consecutive overtime game for the Wildcats, as Davidson could not settle their game in regulation. And just like in the previous two games, Davidson was able to steal a victory. Midway through the first overtime period, a session dominated by the Wildcats, Reynolds headed home his second goal of the match on a Lavan assist. As a result, Davidson improved to 7-7-1 on the season, including 3-2 in the Southern Conference. The ’Cats hope to extend their five-game unbeaten streak this week as they travel to Appalachian State for a crucial SoCon battle. The Wildcats then play host to Wake Forest next Tuesday night at 7:00 p.m. The game, which is also the dedication of the new Alumni Stadium, will give Davidson one more chance to upset a nationally ranked opponent.

From Field Hockey, page 16

Davidson and Saint Louis traded one goal apiece for the rest of the period. Overtime did not last long, though, as junior Molly Blackman ’06, from an assist by Courtney Hughes ’05, scored less than two minutes into the extra frame to give the Wildcats their first victory in the East Division. Thompson said “[I] was extremely proud of all of the athletes. The hockey was tough and aggressive, and they fought hard each minute.” Thompson credited the victory to “the second and third efforts defensively, on the cage, and on the attack.” Nolan had a career day in goal for the ’Cats. Not only did she record 13 saves, including several critical saves late in the game, but she also set a school record for career minutes played in goal with 4312:51, surpassing the previous record of 4301:06. With the win, the Wildcats improved to 1-3 in the Nor-Pac East Division and 5-9 overall. The loss was the first East Division loss for the Billikens, who fell to 3-1 in the conference and 5-7 overall. Davidson continues NorPac play on Wednesday of this week when they host Appalachian State on Belk Turf Field at 7:30 p.m. Earlier this season, Appalachian State defeated Davidson 3-0 in Boone. Then, Davidson concludes its season against the Radford Highlanders in Radford, Va., on Oct. 31 at 2:00 p.m. Last month, Davidson lost to Radford 1-0 on Belk Turf Field.

STSTRAVEL.COM
Join America's #1 Student Tour Operator
1-800-648-4849 / www.ststravel.com