Carter ’05 pitched a gem against Wofford, going seven innings and giving up one earned run in the win.

SPORTS 3 by Dorsett Clark

’Cats creep by Crimson, go 2-1 at Wofford

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Senior Staff Writer

After winning this weekend’s series against Wofford, the baseball team improved to 7-8 in Southern Conference play, but the team has not been above .500 since March 9th, standing at 12-17 on the year. Co-captain and team ace Brian Akin ’04 improved to 5-0 on Sunday, scattering six hits in six innings of work while allowing four earned runs, as the Wildcats roared to a 10-5 victory over the Terriers.

Davidson grabbed the early lead and never looked back, as Jay Heafner ’06 ripped a bases-clearing double to center to give the ’Cats a 3-0 advantage in the first. Davidson tacked three more runs on the board in the second, highlighted by an Alden Crissy ’07 home run to left. Heafner made the most noise offensively, scoring once while driving in four, and Alex Entrekin ’06 scored twice and knocked in three more. Justin Hartanov ’05 replaced Akin in the seventh, holding Wofford to one run off six hits while striking out seven en route to his first career save.

On Saturday, Davidson and Wofford split a doubleheader, with the Wildcats winning the front end, 3-1, and the Terriers taking the nightcap by a score of 10-2. Andy Carter ’05 (1-3) turned in a brilliant performance in game one, surrendering just one run over seven innings. Rob Wilson ’07 held Wofford at bay in the eighth, and Heafner struck out one and induced a game-ending double play in the ninth to notch his league-leading seventh save. Ronnie Shore ’06 drove in Sam Navarro ’05 in the second to give Davidson the early lead. Wofford drew even in the fourth, but Entrekin singled in Andrew Musashe ’05 with two outs in the fourth with what proved to be the game-winning run. Shore plated Navarro in the sixth for some added insurance. Offensively, Navarro led the ’Cats going 3-for-4 and scoring twice, while Shore went 2-for-4 with two RBIs.

In game two, Wofford grabbed a 1-0 lead in the fourth and never looked back, as the Terriers rolled to the 10-2 victory. Heafner provided all the offense, going deep in the sixth for his third home run in 2004 and nearly clocking a grand slam in the eighth, coming up just short but driving in the other run with the sacrifice fly.

Last Thursday, Davidson hosted the Harvard Crimson in a game that went to an extra frame before the ’Cats pulled out the 6-5 victory. Harvard jumped out to a quick 3-0 lead in the first, but was then held scoreless until the ninth. Davidson finally got on the board in the fourth, as both Musashe and Eli Benefield ’05 crossed the plate. The ’Cats took the lead in the fifth when Benefield doubled to left, scoring both Michael Muniz ’05 and Shore, and then increased their lead to 5-3 in the seventh when Crissy crossed the plate on a fielding error. The Crimson plated two in the ninth to send the game to extras, but Navarro laced a two-out single in the 10th to score Muniz and give Davidson a well-fought victory. Matt Meade ’07 pitched five strong innings, yielding just two hits while striking out eight, but Heafner was given the win as he improved to 2-1 in 2004.

Last Wednesday, N.C. State scored 11 runs on just 10 hits and cruised to an 11-2 victory.Victory over Davidson in Raleigh. The lone bright spot for the ’Cats was Brett Pheiffer '04, who had two of Davidson’s three hits. Davidson returns to action on Friday, traveling to Appalachian State for a three-game SoCon series, then faces Wake Forest in Winston-Salem on Tuesday. The next home game will be April 16th, when SoCon rival College of Charleston comes to town for a three-game weekend series.

We'll help you move even if your friends won't. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 2004

We carry everything you need for your next move:
- A variety of moving boxes
- Bubble cushioning
- Packing peanuts

We can ship boxes to your new address for you. Low rates direct from UPS®.

©2003 United Parcel Service of America, Inc.

From Men’s Tennis, page 20

Georgia Southern maintained its momentum from the doubles matches, winning in straight sets at positions two, three, and four, the first three matches to finish. Davidson did not give up despite already having lost the match. Haywood, Jetli, and Bermeo won their matches at one, five, and six, respectively, in three sets, leaving the final margin of victory for Georgia Southern at a narrow 4-3.

With two consecutive conference losses, the team hoped to turn things around on Saturday against Wofford. The Wildcats hosted the Terriers at Covington Courts on Senior Day, the team’s last home match of the season. Davidson got the match off to a great start with wins in all three doubles matches. Coach Frank made another slight change to the lineup, inserting John Bolton '07 at number two doubles with Gould. The resulting 8-6 victory validated Frank’s adjustment, as the two played well together in their first action as a team.

The singles matches went back and forth, with Davidson winning at positions one and six, and Wofford prevailing at two, four, and five. With the match knotted at 3-3, the attention turned to Britt on court three. Both players played quality tennis throughout the match, battling down to the wire in the third set. After Britt was broken while serving for the match at 5-4 and his opponent held serve to go up 6-5, Britt served an excellent game to force a tiebreaker. Britt fell behind early, with his opponent racing to a 6-3 lead, before making his comeback. After evening the tiebreaker score at 6-6, the players traded points back and forth before Britt finally toppled his opponent 14-12. The final match score of 7-5, 3-6, 7-6 (12) indicates the closeness and quality of the match, but the most amazing statistic was Britt’s ability to hang tough in the pressure points, saving eight match points before emerging victorious.

The hard-serving senior punctuated Senior Day with an amazing victory, his eighth of the year, which Frank called “the most monumental match I’ve had in my 32-year career. I’ve never seen somebody stave off eight match points like that. It showed a lot of character for the team to win Saturday, with everyone knowing how big Donald’s loss is for our team,” Frank said.

The win over Wofford elevated the team’s conference record to 2-5, with three conference matches and a non-conference match against Charlotte remaining. The remaining matches will be tough tests for the ’Cats, especially given their new positions in the lineup. “We’ll have to play our best tennis of the season,” said Frank. “But we have some talented young players, so we can put some good players in the lineup [in Miles’ absence].”

The UPS Store
19722 One Norman Blvd.
Cornelius, NC
Half mile west of I-77 in Bucks & Sushi-at-the-Lake.
M-F 8:30 - 6:00
Sat 10:00 - 3:00
704-892-9760
store2193@theupsstore.com