Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

12 For You Sports Fanatics...

BROOKIE'S PICKS ON SUNDAY'S WEAK

Wildcat game of the week: Women’s Volleyball Mizuno Wildcat Classic

Friday and Saturday in Belk Arena

This year’s young squad — nine of the eleven players are sophomores or freshmen — will be tested immediately in this early season showdown on the home court. DePaul, Florida Atlantic, and Virginia Commonwealth will all square off in a non-conference battle for early season momentum.

Outside the Den: Anaheim Angels at Boston Red Sox

Wednesday at 7 p.m. on ESPN

Cable on campus brings ESPN into dorm rooms, which will mean some quality procrastination as baseball teams head into the home stretch. To kick off September, the two hottest teams in baseball will fight for the lead in the AL wild-card race. Boston enters the pivotal three-game series riding the wave of...

SPORTS

By Wilson McCrory
Sports Editor

It seemed clear after the debacle at the 2002 World Basketball Championships that USA Basketball was no longer the dominant force that it had been for so many years, but no one really paid attention to the signs. USA Basketball has always been at the pinnacle of the sport, winning a medal in every Olympic competition since the sport’s inception, and with the advent of the Dream Team era in 1992, it appeared the Americans’ dominance would continue for years to come. That aura of superiority fell flat when the Americans, led by the likes of Ben Wallace, Jermaine O’Neal, Paul Pierce, Baron Davis, and Michael Finley, embarrassed themselves in losing the final three games at the World Championships two years ago for a sixth-place finish in the competition.

George Karl, coach of the worst USA Basketball showing ever in international competition, rationalized that the failure resulted from a lack of competitive fire amongst a group of millionaires that cared only about dunks and shoe contracts. Karl admitted that the world was catching up to USA Basketball, but said the Americans were still the model for basketball around the world. That was the case back in 1992, when the first Dream Team suited up in red, white, and blue, and the Americans sported the single greatest collection of talent...

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Senior Staff Writer

Excuse me, but have you seen my summer? Not so long ago I was in parking-lot traffic on the George Washington Bridge with only the thought of sitting by the pool with my dog keeping me from strangling the woman who thought incessantly beeping her horn would magically make cars disappear. And then, faster than a Britney marriage, I’m heading back to school, avoiding the GW at all costs, only to find myself lost in Pennsylvania Amish country without a map or a clue. While cruising by covered wagons and men with braided beards, I kept my sanity by thinking about time spent parked not on a bridge but on my couch watching copious amounts of football.

Last fall I was in Australia, where the people think all Americans have guns (thanks to Bowling for Columbine) and that Boston still has massive tea parties (thanks to, well, their own stupidity). Worse yet, they also have literally no interest in football. Instead, Aussies religiously watch rugby, a sport seemingly created in a middle-school gym class when someone combined kickball and kill-the-carrier. In the end, it was five months and two football games, hardly a satisfying ratio. I saw...

Men’s Soccer

By Monica JAMOUNEAU
Staff Writer

Despite a tough one-goal loss to Liberty University on Saturday to close out the exhibition season, the Davidson men’s soccer team appears well-prepared for the new fall season. “The upperclassmen will lead the way,” said head coach Matt Spear ’93, referring to the host of talented veterans returning after winning both last year’s regular season and postseason championships. At the top of the list of those returnees is John Latting ’06, a junior defender who was recently named to the All-Conference preseason team and received first-team Southern Conference honors last year. “Our defense is where our strength is based,” remarked Spear. That fact is obvious in light of the numerous defensive records broken last season, including...

See Men’s Soccer, page 13

---

This cleaned text maintains the original structure, punctuation, and meaning of the provided OCR text.On one court, ever, in Michael, Magic, Larry, Pippen, Ewing, and Robinson. USA Basketball was unquestionably the best, and opponents would literally have their friends snap pictures of them as Magic or Michael posted them up in the lane. The United States won the gold going away that year, blasting Croatia 117-85 in the championship game. 

USA Basketball has declined to a depressing level. More yellow-eyed penguins, one of the rarest birds on the planet, than football games. You can only imagine my excitement, then, when recently invited to my beloved Patriots’ preseason game against the Panthers on Saturday night. Outfitted in matching Tom Brady jerseys, my buddy Jeff and I arrived at Bank of America Stadium around 6:30 PM, giving us ample time for tailgating. Before I go any further, I must give Panthers fans credit. Never before have I seen so many dual-propane-tank grills in a parking lot. Usually, when I tailgate I'll cook up a few dogs on a small hibachi. These people had machines that wouldn’t fit in my bedroom; cow-sized portable restaurants fully equipped to cook an entire animal. It was like going to Bible study and bringing along Billy Graham.

After slowly wading through a sea of anti-New England sentiment, we found our seats, which were next to a guy from Concord, North Carolina, and a girl from Concord, New Hampshire. Now, I’m from Concord, Massachusetts, so this was one of those Twilight Zone moments you experience once every couple of years, like the time my former girlfriend Jenn and I sat down next to a woman named Jenn Connolly. Girls love that crap, but it just freaks me out. Anyways, the game went as expected, with Brady (18 of 27 for 217 yards, 2 touchdowns) and newcomer Corey Dillon (50 yards on 13 carries) giving all of New England hope for another successful campaign.

For the better part of the game, Jeff and I were your atypical New England fans: polite, reserved, respectful. Towards the end of the fourth quarter, though, we weaseled our way to the front row directly behind the Panthers’ bench. There sits Steve Smith, the Panthers’ bite-sized receiver, just relaxing after a tough game. Jeff starts yelling, “Stevie! Hey, Steve!” Thinking Jeff was a fan, Smith turns around to give his acknowledgment. As soon as their eyes meet, Jeff matter-of-factly says, “Troy Brown is better than you.” At this point, Smith told Jeff to do something to himself that, as far as I know, is anatomically impossible. The game ended with Carolina on top 20-17 (it’s just preseason, people), but it was a good start to my return to football fandom.

So, while my summer has become nothing more than a fond memory of coming in last place at golf tournaments and knocking out my front tooth hopping Jersey barriers, I welcome with open arms the prospect of a promising football season. But, you'll have to excuse me once again, for I must register for classes. Apparently, there’s no preseason in academia.

But since that magical 1992 campaign, when Team USA blew out the competition in overwhelming fashion, the international game has steadily improved, and in the process has begun to highlight the flaws of American basketball. Team USA still has the unquestioned corner on talent, sporting a line-up of All-Stars at every event that, at least on paper, is head and shoulders above the competition. But just because the Americans can produce better SportsCenter highlights doesn’t mean Team USA is the best team anymore.

American basketball now places far too much emphasis on individual play, with little coaching of basic fundamentals at even the lowest levels of basketball. The media so often scapegoats the NBA for creating this new, selfish style of play, but the problem has roots much earlier, such as the high school AAU circuit that glorifies the individual player instead of a team concept as players seek to draw attention for college scholarships, and now, even early-NBA entry. Gone is the art of the pick-and-roll, the extra pass, off-ball movement, the bank shot.