THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2004

Club baseball funding resolved; new visual arts group created

By LYNIE WHITE
Staff Writer

Last Thursday’s SGA meeting resolved the question of how much money was to be allocated to the Davidson club baseball team. SGA also ratified the creation of Davidson’s first visual arts organization, Ars Longa.

SGA approved the Activities Tax Council (ATC) suggested funding of $1400 to the club baseball team. Currently, SGA policy grants new clubs and organizations a maximum of $250 for first-year funding. However, Club Baseball differed in that it lacked playing fields, and therefore was forced to pay for local field use as well.

Club Baseball president Roland Foss ’05 spoke to SGA on behalf of the team. “The SGA made the right decision to grant Club Baseball the money it needs to pay for renting field space for the year. Unlike other club sports, ours is one that has no on-campus field—baseball or otherwise—to play on. It is only fair, then, that the school reimburse Club Baseball for the costs of renting a field that the school cannot provide,” he said.

SGA president Katharine Hubbard ’05 said the decision was hard to make. “As a general practice, we do not like to allocate more than $250 to newly chartered clubs. However, Club Baseball was not so cut and dry because they are chartered by club sports, not SGA,” she said. Hubbard commented that the bylaws regarding the $250 allocation limit to new clubs would be discussed in later meetings.

SGA also approved the creation of a new visual arts organization called Ars Longa. The group will incorporate a variety of visual arts-related events and activities, including photography, ceramics, general artistic projects, and visiting art-related professional lecture series. They also plan on a travel component to organize and facilitate student travel to area lectures and exhibitions.

“We are currently working on a number of projects including securing facilities for students interested in photography and ceramics, sponsoring A Day Without Art, monthly trips to Charlotte’s NODA district to peruse galleries and learn about local artists and we have recently secured a wonderful visiting artist, Kendall Buster, who will visit in March,” said Jessica Cooley ’05, who is the organization’s leader.

SGA also approved a $160 allocation to the Chess Club and a $250 allocation to both MECCA and the Students for New Learning organization. SGA also made concrete plans to provide transportation to the Davidson-Duke basketball game. Students can sign up for transportation at the Union. Transportation will cost $10.

Eid Al-Fitr, from page 2

coast), he would wake up to attend a special prayer just before sunrise. “We would be wearing our best (new) dress by then. Then we return home and greet our parents, brothers and family members.” The rest of the day, Ismail said, he would go to relatives’ and friends’ houses “to greet them and most likely enjoy lunch and dinner with them. Children celebrate this day by collecting money from their parents, uncles, grandparents, etc.”

The three biggest mosques, or Muslim houses of worship, in Charlotte jointly held a special sunrise prayer service in the Charlotte Convention Center. Amr Elrafei, a homebuilder in Mooresville, attended the Sunday service and estimated about 4000 people were present. Elrafei is also the son of Karima Elrafei, one of Davidson’s Arabic Self-Instructional Language speaking partners. They attended Davidson’s Eid Al-Fitr with the rest of their family.

Monday and Tuesday Second Meal at (Equal ° Sushi @ The Lake (704) 987-8080 www.sushiatthelake.com » Hipae hoe wi 10% Off with School ID Monday-Friday 2pm-6pm Saturday 11:30am-5pm

Noted Civil War historian speaks on war interpretation

By JACKIE MCKEON
Senior Staff Writer

Dr. Gary Gallagher, distinguished Civil War historian and the John L. Nau III Professor in the History of the American Civil War at the University of Virginia, gave the Kendrick K. Kelley Program Lecture on Tuesday, November 9 in Tyler-Tallman Hall. Gallagher’s lecture was titled “A Contested Historical Landscape: Understanding and Interpreting the Civil War.”

Kelley Scholars Sian Jones ’05 and Becky Behizadeh ’05 introduced Gallagher’s lecture, along with Dr. Robin Barnes, professor of History and faculty advisor of the Kelley Program for the 2004-2005 academic year. “Everyone was pleased with Gary Gallagher’s lecture. Whether you agreed with him or not, you had to respect the manner in which he presented his research, which was at once entertaining and scholarly. In his interaction with the Kelley students outside the lecture, he proved a wonderful resource for investigating the life and methods of a historian,” said Behizadeh.

Gallagher focused his lecture on three major interpretive traditions: “The Lost Cause,” “the Union Cause” and “the Reconciliation Cause.” “The Lost Cause” interpretation of the Civil War was “how the white South attempted to come to terms with their loss,” he said.South] did not want to think that [it] had fought without a cause.” “The Union Cause” was a “direct challenge to ‘the Lost Cause,’” said Gallagher. The North used this interpretation of the Civil War to counteract the beliefs of the South. “The Reconciliation Cause” concentrated on the bravery and honor of the soldiers while ignoring troublesome issues, such as slavery. “‘The Reconciliation Cause’ celebrated the valor and pluck of the soldiers,” said Gallagher. “Americans were devoted to their causes and sacrificing themselves in a way that subsequent generations should look to.” Gallagher tied his lecture to contemporary American issues and he stressed the importance of understanding the history of the Civil War in relation to current events. “The Civil War is the most important point in American history. It would be impossible to understand us now if you do not understand the Civil War,” he said. “His most important statement was that to understand American history and current events you have to understand how we view the Civil War as a nation,” said Brian Jennsen ’05. “He was extremely informed, a dynamic lecturer, and he really held the attention of the audience,” said Professor and Chair of History Sally G. McMillen. The Kendrick K. Kelly Program in Historical Studies was established in memory of a Davidson College honors history graduate, Kendrick K. Kelly ’63, who was killed in the Vietnam War. In addition to supporting the Kelly Lecture series, which occurs once a semester, the program provides accepted students with funds for travel and research.

Jeopardy, from page 1

“We all went and tried out. I was just the only one who made it,” she said. During tryouts, Jendrek completed a written test with fifty questions, thirty-five of which had to be answered correctly in order for participants to advance to the next round. She then competed in a mock version of the game with buzzers before interviewing with the show’s staff. “Basically they want to see if you’re able to talk to them and if you’ll be good for TV or if you’re going to clam up,” Jendrek said of the tryouts. Jendrek did not receive any information about the results of the tryouts until Sep. 14. Her mom received a FedEx package from the show and immediately called to tell her that she would be competing in the “Jeopardy!” College Tournament over Davidson’s Fall Break. Jendrek did not go to much extra effort to prepare for her appearance on the show. “Either you know it or you don’t,” she said. “If you make it that far, you know you must be good. My roommate and I would sit, and she would ask me trivia questions. My friends came over, and we played the ‘Jeopardy!’ computer game.” Jendrek received an outpouring of support from family and friends both before and after her appearance on the show. “My roommate went all out,” Jendrek said. “She had signs in the Union and signs outside of Belk. She made me a card before I left. When I got home, all of my friends from Knoxville threw a huge party because it was right after my birthday.” Cash prizes were awarded to all the participants. The winner received $100,000, and second and third place received $50,000 and $25,000 respectively. As a semifinalist, Jendrek won $10,000, and participants in the quarterfinals received $5,000. Jendrek plans to put most of her winnings toward her Davidson tuition, but she hopes to have enough money to help her family take a trip this summer. Their destination will either be overseas or Disney World. As a participant on the show, Jendrek had the chance to make “Jeopardy!” host Alex Trebek laugh with her response to one of the questions. “The question was in NASA technology,” Jendrek said. “It was ‘Black and Decker developed this for astronauts to use on the moon.’ I buzzed in and was really excited because I was kind of behind. I said, ‘What is an extension cord?’ Alex Trebek started laughing and said that that would have to be one long extension cord to go from the moon to the earth. The answer was cordless technology.” Although she did not win the entire tournament, Jendrek enjoyed competing on the show and meeting students from colleges all over the country, including Georgetown, Williams, Florida State, Columbia, the University of Texas, and Stanford. “I really just had so much fun,” Jendrek said. “It was a surreal experience. The other contestants were so nice. The people who run the show are Hollywood people, but they make it really fun.” Jendrek is the fifth Davidson-affiliated contestant to appear on “Jeopardy!” College Registrar and Professor of German and Humanities Hansford Epes competed in 1992. Shari Gravett ’81, Michael Schill ’89, and Emily Eagan ’99 have also appeared on the show.

STSTRAVEL.COM
Join America’s #1 Student Tour Operator