Staff Editorial

Remembering the reality of war

As students, we grew up at a time when 24-hour cable news was gaining in popularity, making world events all the more apparent to us in our own homes. Many of us can still remember the first Gulf War, when CNN brought us images from guided bombs rapidly approaching their targets and eventually turning the screen into digital snow, or the eerie image of green night-vision cameras recording tracer fire from anti-aircraft guns. We grew up in an era when the realities of foreign wars were more apparent than ever before due to the advances in communications and the news media.

Yet at the same time, we now live at a time when we seem much more disconnected from what is going on in our current war in Iraq than we have in any previous wars. Looking back through The Davidsonian archives from the Vietnam era, words such as “protests” and “walkouts” scattered this newspaper’s headlines. Today, on this same campus, we sense students feel much less of a personal stake in the current Gulf War.

Perhaps this disconnect compared to previous wars such as Vietnam is not surprising. There is no draft today. Most students will never themselves serve in combat. And for many, the closest they will ever personally come to knowing what it is like to be in the line of fire is from hearing stories of strangers they have little in common with on the evening news. Yet for a group of students, alumni, and close friends and family in the Davidson community, the realities of war are far too apparent.

This week, The Davidsonian tells the stories of just a few of the members of the Davidson Community who have been directly affected by this war, either through serving themselves or having a close relative serve. Some of the soldiers profiled here are just leaving for Iraq, while others have already served several tours of duty. They come from different backgrounds and each has a different story to tell. Yet what they all have in common is a connection to this school and to the community that we are all a part of.

Read their stories and think about what these soldiers have gone through. Think about both all they have accomplished and all they have sacrificed. Reading the stories of soldiers who, just a few years ago, sat in the same seats we sit in today, may remind us that the war is real and not just an image on our TV screens.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORT/ LIBERTAS

Editor in Chief
David Crow

Managing Editor
Zach Williams

News Editors
Zach Kazior, Adam Martin & Ruchi Turakhia

Perspectives Editor
Nicholas Carlson

Arts & Living Editors
Andy Martin & Sarah Robinson

Yow! Editor
Brendan Parets

Sports Editors
Drew Brookie & Wilson McCro

Photography Editor

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2004

Letters to the Editors

Homecoming Court doesn’t belong here

I have a question. A quick one, one I thought I knew the answer to, but I’m not so sure anymore. Am I in college, or am I still in high school? You see, I was pretty sure I was done with the whole high school bit, I’d done my four years, I’d paid my dues. But then this weekend came: Homecoming Weekend at Davidson College, 2004. A grand old tradition I’m sure, dating back from some grand old time and not changed since who knows when.

There were some things I expected to see this past Friday and Saturday. A big football game. Check. A big football win. Check again, and congratulations to the team! A lot of alums. Definitely check. Not to mention a lot of alumni’s kids. A super clean campus and a great weekend of parties were also part of the equation. So what was amiss? It wasn’t actually an issue of something missing. It was an issue of something existing. I hadn’t thought twice about this being a reality at Davidson until I got the e-mail asking students to vote for a Homecoming king and queen. A Homecoming king and queen? They have to be kidding. That was honestly the first thing that went through my head. Davidson College, one of the most elite liberal arts colleges in the country has a Homecoming Court? Nominated by what merit? Grade point average? Number and quality of extra-curricular activities? Most trips abroad? Most meaningful community service? I could not bring myself to believe my newfound home of four years would organize an event based on good looks and popularity.

Maybe in high school, when the world remains small enough to make who dates who and who wears what significant, a Homecoming Court may be thought of as an interesting and enthralling campaign. Even then, the emphasis the custom puts on social hierarchy and physical appearance is only detrimental to the people involved. It teaches the wrong priorities, hurts feelings, and belittles the institution that sponsors it. These injurious effects are even more unnecessary and ridiculous in a college setting. This is a time and place meant for students to broaden their horizons, focus on the real priorities in life, and create an existence that is unique and their own. In short, it is a time to learn to be productive and independent, not a time when students should be worried about the approval or disapproval of the rest of the student body.

Halley Aelion ‘08

Rushdie offends my God

Scheduling Homecoming during Yom Kippur isn’t the only example of a lack of consideration fornon-Christian religions. I see a similar issue with the choice for Salman Rushdie (lack of capitalization intentional) as the Conarroe lecturer. Whether or not the college thinks Salman a suitable lecturer, they should take into consideration how such a choice would be received by the Moslem student population. I do not wish to limit Salman’s free speech, for I feel American citizens and non-citizens alike should be able to enjoy our Constitution when in our country. At the same time, the KKK has marched in Washington, DC, yet I hope Davidson never invites them to speak. Personally, I feel the choice is a slap in the face for Moslem students, and my college’s choice embarrasses me before God, my parents, and myself. I am not implying that the college wishes to scorn Moslem students; I am implying that the college acts without thinking. The Davidsonian reports President Vagt as saying “If I had known about it, I would’ve changed it, and I should’ve known about it,” in reference to the scheduling conflict between homecoming and Yom Kippur. The college should know how a decision affects the student body before acting. The fact that it didn’t displays a noteworthy lack of consideration.

Richard Shayegan

The Davidsonian welcomes and strongly encourages letters to the editor. Please e-mail submissions of less than 250 words to Savidemalangiasioson edu:

Bush is reckless in plan to contain WMDs
By Sam SPENCER
Staff Columnist

While making the case for Iraq in 2002, numerous Bush Administration officials, from Condi to Rummy to Cheney to the big man himself, said that they “didn’t want the smoking gun to be a mushroom cloud.” Never mind that the official administration stance was that there were no nuclear weapons in Iraq; the Bush administration seemed dedicated to keeping WMD - and especially nuclear weapons - out of the wrong hands. However, the administration was only focused on Iraq; not the countries that actually had nuclear weapons programs. Bush hasn’t done much to keep nuclear weapons and other WMD out of the hands of terrorists, and the administration has done nothing to strengthen or overhaul U.S. nonproliferation efforts. They have not secured nuclear weapons stockpiles, they have weakened international agreements and regulations, and they have not stopped the fermenting nuclear projects in Iran and North Korea.

This is in direct contrast to Kerry’s plan for our security. According to Kerry, “preventing terrorists from gaining access to weapons of mass destruction must be our number one security goal.” The Kerry plan proposes securing fissile material in the former Soviet Union within four years (under Bush’s leisurely pace, this is supposed to take 13 years), and we would lead the world by ending production of nuclear weapons. Kerry got it right when he laid out his simple formula: “No material. No bomb. No nuclear terrorism.” A Kerry plan stops nuclear terrorism at the source by getting rid of the fissile material; Kerry wants the U.S. to go to the U.N. to get nations to pledge to never use highly enriched uranium or plutonium, while at the same time working across the globe to shut down enrichment plants and confiscate illegal fissile material. Kerry’s plan also involves strengthening counterproliferation agreements like the Cooperative Threat Reduction program and the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, and dealing with “rogue” states by giving them nuclear fuel in return for shutting down enrichment facilities. Finally, by working with the international community in sharing intelligence and stopping the trade of nuclear materials and technology, the massive failures that led to the A.Q. Kahn incident will never happen again under Kerry.

Contrast this with Bush’s plan: Bush does not propose strengthening any of the broad (involving 70+ countries) international agreements, and in his “Agenda for America” Bush takes credit for stopping A.Q. Kahn’s proliferation network, though nothing has been done to punish Kahn. Bush’s plan does not propose that we lead the way by ending the production of nuclear fissile material. Bush’s plan also states that “in an era when rogue regimes still seek long-range missiles, the President continues to protect America by pushing forward with missile defense.” Instead of focusing on keeping weapons out of the hands of terrorists, or keeping Kim Jong-Il from building more weapons, Bush is wasting money on a missile defense system that won’t protect likely targets like Tokyo, and won’t protect the U.S. from a dirty bomb or a high-yield EMP blast from a nuclear weapon detonated above American soil. Terrorists could easily smuggle a bomb into the U.S., right under our noses and under the reach of a missile defense system. Kerry’s nuclear nonproliferation plan involves working with the international community and acting quickly to keep fissile material out of the hands of terrorists. Bush’s plan is slow, is not comprehensive, focuses on obsolete plans like missile defense, and divides the world into “good” and “bad” guys. Kerry believes in using international agreements to help countries that are on the fence stay away from nuclear programs, while Bush’s plan for nonproliferation in the “Agenda for America” starts with a threat. Though Kerry reserves the right to use force when our country is in danger, he will try and win the nonproliferation battle without a war. This election, we have a choice between the nuclear policy that let A.Q. Kahn get away with nuclear proliferation, and a comprehensive policy that will make our country safer from a possible WMD attack. If you don’t want the evidence for my case to be a mushroom cloud, vote for John Kerry in November.