Sixth straight conference win puts team at 7-1, in position to take title

By Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

The women’s tennis team continued their Southern Conference dominance yesterday afternoon, winning their sixth straight conference match and almost recording
their fourth straight conference shutout. Hosting UNC-G at the Covington Courts, the Wildcats earned their seventh conference victory of the
season — their most since joining the SoCon in 1993 — with an impressive 6-1 win over Greensboro.

The ’Cats got off to a slow start in the doubles matches, falling behind early at positions one and three.
While the team struggled at those positions, Meggie Patterson ’05 and Lindsey Powel ’06 dominated their opponents at number two
for an 8-2 victory. Kelly and Meghan Fillnow ’05 were the next team to finish, recovering from an early 4-1
deficit at the top doubles slot to record an 8-5 win, earning the ’Cats the doubles point and early 1-0
lead.

Davidson carried the momentum into singles, earning straight-set victories in five of the six matches. In helping her team to
its record-setting seventh conference win, Meghan Fillnow also won yesterday for the seventh consecutive time. Her recent efforts earned her
SoCon Player of the Week honors.

After extending their conference record to 4-1 with three wins two weeks ago, the women’s tennis team looked to continue
their winning streak and conference dominance in three more matches last week. Playing consecutive matches against Elon and Western Carolina
on Tuesday and Wednesday followed by a tough non-conference matchup with Charlotte on Saturday, the Wildcats emerged from the week
with a 2-1 record. Though their winning streak came to an end with Saturday’s loss to their cross-town rival, the
’Cats’ solid performances early in the week brought their conference record to 6-1.

Because of bad weather, Tuesday’s match against Elon took place in Greensboro at the Piedmont Indoor Racquet Club. The last-minute
venue change did not affect the ’Cats, as they cruised through the singles and doubles matches to an easy 7-0
victory. All three Wildcat teams won their doubles matches, with no team losing more than four games. The dominance continued
into the singles matches, as the Davidson women swept all six matches without anyone losing more than five games.

Their winning streak now at four, the Wildcats hosted Western Carolina on Wednesday at the Covington Courts.

Davidson see Women’s Tennis, page 17

Gutsy play by Britt lifts Cats over Wofford on Senior Day

By Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

The men’s tennis team, after consecutive wins against Chattanooga and South Carolina State two weeks ago, entered last week on
a roll. “At that point, we were playing our best tennis of the season,” according to head coach Jeff Frank.
With conference matches against Elon, Georgia Southern, and Wofford, the Wildcats seemed to be peaking at just the right time
to make a conference run. What transpired next would bring the team to its lowest point of the season, but
by the end of the week the ’Cats rebounded for one of their biggest wins.

Hosting Elon indoors at the Knobloch Tennis Center last Tuesday, the Wildcats looked to continue their strong play. Playing without
Rob Gould ’04 (out with an injured ankle) in the doubles matches, the team was at an early disadvantage. Russ
Burns ’05 and Bryan Stonestreet ’04, the usual number threeteam, moved up in the lineup to play number two, with
Nick Lewis ’04 joining Gould’s partner Jonathan Britt ’04 at the number three doubles position. The ’Cats will be left
scrambling after Miles ’05 went down with a season-ending ankle injury. Gould’s absence from the lineup proved to be too
much for the ’Cats to overcome against Elon’s doubles teams, as Davidson lost all three matches to go down 1-0.
Needing to come out strong in the singles matches, the Wildcats suffered a huge loss when, at 2-2 in the
first set of his number two singles match, Donald Miles ’05 went down with an ankle injury. Though forced to
retire from his match, early prognoses indicated that Miles would not miss much time. 48 hours and several revealing x-rays
later, Miles underwent surgery on his ankle that will keep him out of the lineup for the rest of the
season. According to Frank, after Miles went down, “everybody seemed deflated.” Only Stonestreet and Porus Jetli ’07 picked up singles
wins, and the ’Cats fell to Elon 5-2. While the loss to Elon was disappointing, the loss of Miles from
the lineup was a much more devastating prospect. Miles has been a solid performer in both singles and doubles this
year and has played some of his best tennis in recent weeks.

Friday’s home match against Georgia Southern was the team’s first without Miles, and the Wildcats struggled in their new roles.
The one and two doubles positions featured new combinations, as Britt joined Rob Haywood ’04 at number one and Jetli
joined Gould at number two. The newly paired teams had barely played together, and their inexperience was apparent. Only Stonestreet
and Burns, at number three, prevailed in the doubles matches, putting the ’Cats at an early 1-0 disadvantage. The Wildcats
also struggled in their new roles in the singles matches. The entire lineup shifted up one position as a result
of Miles’ absence, with Daniel Bermeo ’06 stepping in to take his place.

Play of the Week
Jay Heafner ‘06
Baseball
Hometown: Lincolnton, NC
Major: Political Science

Heafner was a beast behind the plate this past week, going 5-for-16 (.313) in four games. In the process, he
drove in seven runs and scored another two himself, accounting for 60 percent of the ’Cats’ total runs over those
four games. On the mound, Heafner went 1-0 with a win in extra innings against Harvard, and he also recorded
his conference-leading seventh save later in the week against Wofford.

This past Saturday, the men’s tennis team played their final home match of the season, traditionally designated Senior Day. Four
days earlier, in a match against Elon, number two singles player Donald Miles ’05 went down with a season-ending ankle
injury, forcing every player in the spots behind him to be bumped up one position. Saturday’s match against Wofford would
prove to be one for the ages, as it came down to one player, Jonathan Britt ’04, whose match consequently
went to a third set tiebreaker. Down 3-6 in the breaker with three match points staring him in the face,
Britt, a senior, was able to fight off all of them and another five more afterwards. Up 13-12, Britt finally
closed out his opponent, taking home a win for both himself and his team in the last match of his
career on Davidson’s Covington Courts.
