THE AVIDGONIAN

Spotlight on campus buildings: Sophomore apartments designed by noted Iraqi architect

It is common knowledge that for most sophomores, the experience of living in the “Sophomore Apartments” is forgettable. Students complain that the dormitories consisting of Peter Knox, Mary Irwin Belk, and Akers Residence Halls have small rooms, are loud, and are located far away from the main academic buildings. But, what is lesser known is that all three of the identical buildings were designed by a famous architect.

Daniel Rahim, most renowned for his design of Saddam Hussein’s Tikrit hideout, honed his skills designing buildings for Davidson College in the early 1980s. Beginning in 1979, he designed the interior of Vail Commons, dedicated in 1981. At the same time, he planned the entirety of the Knox and Irwin residence halls, which were also completed for the school year of 1981. Akers, completed in 1984, was simply a duplicate of Knox and Irwin. Rahim finished his work with the college in 1985, when he designed the drainage system for the entire campus.

After his parting with Davidson, Rahim, whose work has been described by numerous architectural experts as “functional,” brought his talents to Hollywood where he designed the sets for several hit movies. When Saddam Hussein saw his work on “Teen Wolf Too,” he invited Rahim to work for him as his head of “special architectural projects” which included work on missile-proof basements, nuclear shelters, and of course the infamous “spiderhole” Tikrit hideaway. According to rumor, Rahim was set to return to Davidson in order to be in charge of the Belk Residence Hall renovations, but his plans were destroyed in the Shock and Awe bombing campaign.

An Irwin room that shares similar design characteristics with Saddam’s hideout.

Vampire discovered nesting in fourth Watts

The source of the notorious bat problem afflicting the infamous Watts Dormitory has been discovered. Recently, Watts residents have complained publicly of a bat problem for two weeks, but they reported that no progress has been made towards removing the bats.

Early last week, it was discovered by Third Watts resident Steve Turner ’07 that the bats were not coming from outside the dorm, but from within. As Steve was climbing the stairwell up to the fourth floor late one night, he noticed a figure climbing into the fourth-floor ceiling panels. Curious, he climbed up himself and peeked through the tiles. Reported Steve: “I saw some caped dude lowering himself down into a coffin while singing along to Dispatch’s ‘Bats in the Belfry.’ There were all these crazy bats flying around everywhere, and a bunch of candles. There were also capes lazily strewn about the room, I could tell he hadn’t taken his laundry down in a while.”

As it turned out, the “caped dude” was actually an enrolled student, who would only give his name as Vincent ’06. And, the reason he hadn’t taken his laundry down in a while was only the tip of the iceberg in an ongoing battle for Vincent. “The laundry hours only run during the daytime,” he said, “so how is a vampire like me supposed to get down there?”

Vincent went on to argue that the school has not done a very good job in making itself vampire-accessible. In order to go to his classes, Vincent must fly over to Chambers shortly before dawn, and wait around for several hours until classes start. He can also only take classes in the new wings of Chambers where the classrooms have no windows. Moreover, he has difficulty finding a place to eat. Since the Union Café closes at 1:00 AM, his dining hours are severely limited. “A long roost in the attic of Chambers during the day can build up quite an appetite,” Vincent stated, “and it’s frustrating to wake up only to find that there’s no food available anywhere on campus.”

Vincent attributes the recent bat attacks to poor allocation of funds by the faculty. “Bats can eat over 1200 flying insects per hour,” informed Vincent, “but there clearly are not enough flying insects around campus for that to happen. Perhaps if the college spent less money on new athletic facilities and more on bat food, the bats would not have to go after human flesh for nourishment.”

One thing Vincent does like about the college, though, is the party scene. “On the weekends it is so easy to find victims...uh, I mean...friends,” says Vincent, “but a lot of times their blood is tainted with alcohol.” Another attractive feature of Davidson for Vincent is the general lack of vampire hunters here, the last being Blade in the class of 1986. Vincent explained that he is hoping to major in sociology and that he plans to graduate in ’06, although he’s willing to work for it even if it takes an eternity. His academic path has not been without roadblocks though. “Most of my professors disagree with my analysis of the human species,” he reveals. “I think they are looking for papers with more emphasis on the intraspecies relationships rather than the interspecies ones.”

Contact the Señor: Señor Delecto Investigatory Services
* Multi-lingual
* Unmatched knowledge of computers and computer-related technology
* Charming Personality
* No criminal record or outstanding arrest warrants
* Well versed in the latest "hip" styles and lingo
* Strong privacy protection
* Rated #1 Internet Interrogator by Net Detective Quarterly
* Competitive rates!
senor_detecto@yahoo.com or AOL Screen Name Senor Detecto
www.SenorDetecto.tk

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2004

Wabte Mastenlcs Prctenac

Bava Feinberg was sick of all the talk. “All I've heard since the year began was how expensive the Union Café is, so I decided to check it out for myself,” explained Feinberg. Armed with years of economic experience andVast amounts of statistical data, the visiting professor ordered a grilled chicken sandwich. Unfortunately for Feinberg, he placed the order around 6:15 p.m.—right in the middle of meal plan time. “I waited and waited. Finally, at precisely 7:42 p.m., I received the sandwich. The opportunity cost of lost time alone was well into the hundreds of British pounds purchased at the forward rate corresponding to the time of expected delivery. In dollars? Impossible to say.”

The chicken’s exact cost paid at the register is unclear as well, said Feinberg, because he also bought a Snapple. But one thing is clear; the price paid was not minimal. The Union Café is known for slow lines, Big League Chew, and yes, high prices. Not until Feinberg’s experiment, however, have the true costs been uncovered. Lamented Feinberg, “A grilled chicken sandwich goes for around five dollars, hours of lost time, and one man’s dignity.”

College to permit smoking in Chambers to relieve stress

In a stunning turn of events, the college administration has decided to allow smoking in Chambers classrooms. Not wanting students to have difficulty learning due to stress or tension levels, school officials cleared the way for the popular method of anxiety-release. The new smoking permissive atmosphere got off to a rough start when a fire alarm caused students to miss 17 minutes of class. The Dean of Students assured students the problem has been fixed and students can continue to puff away without worry of disrupting their education.

In the wake of the decision, many students are bewildered, puzzled, and somewhat annoyed. Michelle Blanchett ’06 feared for her health. “I suppose I'll have to bring my inhaler to class, now.” “It feels a little too much like the Brick House,” commented Steve Aikman ’06, “I like to keep my studies separate from my social life. What’s next? Installing cups on desks for spitting tobacco?” Ryan Rutgers ’08 was more positive in his assessment: “I mean, Davidson students need stimulants to stay awake. For me, it’s caffeine. For others, cigarettes. Plus, if anything, this will make the window seat that much more wanted.”

For smokers, the news carries excitement over a more tolerant environment. “I can’t tell you how many times I’ve wanted a cigarette during an in-class exam,” exclaimed junior Adam Pittman. Most faculty were upset by the announcement, accusing the college of giving in to requests by “activist donors.” Many noted they were already having trouble recognizing student faces without a smoke screen in the way.

CAMPUS VOICES

You call yourselves a Flickerball team?
A message from Coach Willis
Peter Willis ‘05
Third Rich Co-Flickerball Coach

Vince Lombardi once said, “Winning isn’t everything, it’s the only thing.” Third Rich I hope you're listening. Our game last week was pathetic. First off you all showed up only 5 minutes before the game. That’s not nearly enough time for proper stretching and warm-ups! Not only were you extremely late, but you were also extremely lethargic. What were you all doing last night? It’s a freakin’ Sunday morning, and that means one thing: Flickerball. Have you forgotten our motto by Winston Churchill, “We shall show mercy, but we shall not ask for it”? You should have been so pumped that you accidentally tackled the other team.

Which brings me to another point: You call what you did last week tagging? Where I come from you only see that kind of touching late at night on Cinemax. It’s no wonder the refs never saw any of the tags. Speaking of which, the refs really screwed us over. I mean were we playing flickerball or rugby out there? Last time I checked headlocks and sweeping low kicks were illegal. Don’t quit your day jobs.

Girls, we’re third in the brackets right now, and if you keep up these lackluster performances you'll have plenty of time to eat a nice long lunch at Commons during the championship tournament. Another thing we need to work on is our t-shirts. Who designed them? Did you see the team we played last week? Those were some classy shirts. I’m ashamed to be seen walking to the fields with ours on.

A word about practice: attend. How do you expect to win any games if you don’t even have the commitment to come out three days a week to practice? Yeah, Jenny, I’m talking to you. Winston Churchill once said, “Continuous effort - not strength or intelligence - is the key to unlocking our potential.” Another thing, the weightlifting sessions on Friday are not voluntary. They’re mandatory. If you can’t squat 300, you won’t be able to do squat on the field. It’s a direct relationship.

A word of advice: from now on when you eat at the Union you’re only allowed to order from the Deli. No more Bistro Beef sandwiches. Those will only slow you down. They go straight to your thighs, and take away from your 40 time. My freshman year, we went undefeated. No, it wasn’t because we had football players that came out and played illegally. It was because we had heart. We must keep fighting. As Churchill once said, “It’s not enough that we do our best; sometimes we have to do what’s required.”

THE YOWL
Your Davidsonian Humor Section

THIS WEEK'S CAMPUS PARIAHS:
Jeff Yeakel
Bobby Kenner
Andrew Schapiro
Evans McGowan
Jordie Poncy
Robbie Reynolds

Editor: Brendan Parets
Students with story suggestions or interested in writing should contact the editor at brparets@davidson.edu

Note: If you've been living in a cave for the past six months, then you should know that the Yowl is a satirical Davidsonian. Hence, to the truth it should be taken as truth.

A Jiff of Jeff
“The Cycloptopus”
I'm a math major. I love numbers!
By Jeffrey Yeakel

You love who? 
Face. Book