THE DAVIDSONIAN — SPORTS. WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2004 15

Volleyball gets defensive as the new season approaches

First game on Wednesday at home against Winthrop

By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

Last year was an up-and-down season for the volleyball team, as a 14-21 record left them in the middle of
the Southern Conference standings. This year, with four 2003 freshmen now boasting a year of experience, the Wildcats are looking
to move upwards in the Southern Conference pack.

Last season’s team was characterized by youth, as several freshmen were forced into integral roles on the team despite their
inexperience. This year’s version, on the other hand, is blessed with both youth and greater experience. The four returning sophomores,
along with Erin Balak ’06 and captain Tam Gallen ’05, make up the core that looks to lead the ’Cats
back to a winning season.

The freshmen, however, will again be a key part of the squad, and will see a great deal of playing
time on the court this year. Courtney Cron ’08 says, “It’s almost like we’re not new kids because we are
going to be asked to step up and shoulder responsibilities that a typical freshman wouldn’t be asked to handle... We’re
going to be seeing valuable court time and going up against juniors and seniors.”

Gallen, the libero, or defensive specialist, is determined to place the emphasis, both personally and as a team, on defense
this year. The Wildcats want to be a team “that tracks down every ball,” says Gallen. “I think that we
have the ability to be one of the top teams in the conference, defensively.”

Even in the preseason alumni game, the Wildcat defense was impressive, as the team surrendered only a handful of aces
and used gritty play to pull out a 3-2 win. The ’Cats fell behind 2-1 to the former players, but
came back to take the last two games and win the match. The game featured solid teamwork and execution by
the Wildcats, with far fewer miscues than a team would expect this early in the season. Katie Pierruci ’08 played
an outstanding offensive game along with classmate Lindsey Woeste ’08, showing that the freshmen truly are ready to step up
this year.

Gallen, true to her word, held down the defensive side and recorded more digs than an archaeologist does in a
lifetime. Gallen, as the only senior on the team, shoulders a lot of the responsibility to lead the young squad,
but coach Tim Cowie has a tremendous amount of confidence in the captain. Gallen admits that the leadership role will
be a difficult one, but she calls it “a healthy challenge.” She adds, “I have to be the best leader
that I can so that we are pleased with the outcome of our season.”

The Wildcats open their season at home on Wednesday against Winthrop, and will then play host to the annual Wildcat
Classic this weekend against Virginia Commonwealth, Florida Atlantic, and DePaul.Before finally hitting the road for a Sept. 7 match-up with
High Point.

202 South Main St. Davidson, NC. 704-892-0604

From Cake Race, page 16

Davidson’s cross country team displayed their potential by finishing first and second, respectively, in the race. Morris was clocked at
9:02, with Kifer a step behind at 9:03. Grant Connette was the third-place finisher, with a time of 9:23. Rounding
out the top ten were: 4th Dudley Calhoun 9:30, 5th Britt Mercadante 9:41, 6th Josh Sonneland 9:46, 7th Jon Bassett
9:47, 8th David Lebhar 9:48, 9th Adam Gregory 9:51, 10th Scott Sherrill 10:03.

On the women’s side, the women’s cross country team entered their first-year runners in the Cake Race for the first
time in several years, and the team swept the top four places, with a member of the field hockey team
picking up fifth place. The girls were running hard from the gun, and the top three of Brittany Crawford ’08,
Megal Atias ’08, and Brenna Burns ’08 quickly pulled away from the rest of the field. To the ovation of
the upper-class students that packed the stadium, Crawford crossed the line first in 9:40. Atias finished close behind, finishing in
9:53, and Burns was right on Atias’ heels with a time of 9:59. The rest of the top ten were:
4th Annie O’Donnell 10:25, 5th Catherine Ransone 10:58, 6th Kristen Koehrn 11:08, 7th Mary Megan Daly 11:08, 8th Colleen McKown
11:08, 9th Nancy Haskell 11:10, 10th Ivey McAliley 11:23.

Cake Race winner, Sam Morris ’08, showed off his bunny cake. Brittany Crawford ’08 smiled after winning the women’s cake
race. Photo by Caitlin Ranson.

One additional participant was non-first-year student and Davidson College President Bobby Vagt, who has become a comical mainstay of the
event. Every year, he dons the headpiece of Willy the Wildcat and blazes the course alongside all the freshmen. President
Vagt’s presence in the race adds a bit of humor, school pride, and a lot of respect for a man
running with what must feel like a sauna on his head. “I love that Bobby Vagt runs every year... and
the mascot head just makes it that much better!” says Kristen Koehrn ’08.

What makes the Cake Race special, however, are the cakes. Annie O’Donnell ’08 enjoyed the fact that instead of getting
a mass-produced medal, the qualifying runners received cakes that people volunteered a good amount of time to make. In all,
92 cakes were donated by students, faculty, dining services, and other members of the Davidson community. The cakes ranged from
vanilla, to double chocolate, to bundt, to carrot, and everything in between. There was a cake decorated with the structural
formula for the active ingredient in chocolate. Another cake had Athens written in Greek, and one cake was shaped like
the head of a giant white rabbit. A cake with frosting in the pattern of a soccer ball was made
specifically for the women’s soccer team, but it was chosen by Andy Kifer ’08, who is not on the women’s
soccer team. Well, all is fair in love, war, and the Cake Race.
