2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2004

Sushi @ The Lake

(704) 987-8080 www.sushiatthelake.com

Sushi Grill Specials

10% Off with School ID
Monday and Tuesday

50% Off Second Roll

College Night!
10% Off with School ID
Monday-Friday 2pm-6pm
Saturday 11:30am-5pm

Davidson ROTC chapter hosts Guest PT Program

By Carey BAXTER
Staff Writer

The Davidson chapter of the Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC) hosted a Guest Physical Training (PT) Program open to all students and faculty members early on Wednesday, October 20.

President Bobby Vagt was among the approximately 70 guests who got up early and trudged to the cross country course to experience just a morsel of the intense training that the 25 members of the ROTC must endure three times each week, in addition to weekly leadership classes and field training exercises (FTX) one weekend each semester.

This year’s three-day FTX was held in September at Camp Butner, North Carolina.

“Cadets train on marksmanship, leadership skills, rappelling, and obstacle courses amongst other things,” said Major Patrick Leslie of the Special Forces and Assistant Professor of Military Science at Davidson. “It is usually very physically demanding.”

This week marks the beginning of a three-week Squad Training Exercise (STX), which “represents a new phase in training the juniors and underclassmen,” said ROTC member Chris Hallett ’05.

STX basically involves “playing war on the cross-country trails,” he said.

“Junior cadets are appointed as a squad leader in charge of 10 other cadets and are given a tactical mission to accomplish. They are evaluated on their ability to plan, lead and execute under a strict time constraint,” said Leslie.

Upon graduation, the nine current senior ROTC members, the largest class yet from Davidson, will not only receive a degree from Davidson, but they will also receive the commission of second lieutenant, the same rank that graduates of the U.S. Military Academy at West Point achieve upon graduation.

It is hard to emphasize enough “the significance of this achievement,” said Francois Trappey ’05.

Officers, unlike ordinary enlisted soldiers, must be able “to motivate 30 strangers into taking bullets for their country,” he said.

Trappey has chosen to specialize in the Air Force division of the ROTC Program. He commutes to the University of North Carolina in Charlotte for his training.

This past summer Trappey reported to Tyndall Air Force Base in Panama City, Florida for a four-week boot camp.

“The entire point,” he said, “was to evaluate my composure and ability to lead in stressful situations while being yelled at, deprived of sleep, physically trained into the ground.”

The training at Davidson allows ROTC members to “get a feel for the military,” said Hallett.

First-year students and sophomores act as soldiers while juniors and seniors assume the position of officers and lead the younger students through simulated real-life combat situations.

This allows officers-in-training to get a feel for how the soldiers they will be leading feel under the direction of officers.

During their four years at Davidson, ROTC members complete basic officer training.

Three to six months after graduation, they are able to specialize in fields such as military intelligence, field artillery, aviation, armored vehicles, or the signal corps (radio and satellite).

Leslie’s leadership development classes, which address management skills and how to give soldiers broad, general directions, are held once or twice each week and prepare ROTC members for the very important Leadership Development Assessment Course (LDAC) that is held in Washington D.C. after their junior year.

The LDAC accounts for 25 percent of ROTC members’ final rank of merit, which determines the flexibility of their future working schedule with the U.S. Army.

The other 75 percent of the rank is determined by grade point average (50 percent) and the grade given by the commanding officer that evaluates the potential of each officer-in-training to become a leader (25 percent).

The Army allows officers in the top 10 percent of the merit rank, which will be posted in December for seniors, to choose his or her place in the army or whether or not he or she wishes to defer service for a few years.

The Army then satisfies its own needs by assigning the remaining officers to jobs that need filling.

Right now there is a shortage of military intelligence officers.

Many Davidson ROTC members are on a scholarship from the Army and are thus obligated to serve the Army for four years following graduation.

The Army often grants educational delay to officers who wish to continue their education before beginning military service.

This can be to the Army’s benefit, as in Hallett’s case.

Hallett plans to spend two years at Hebrew University in Jerusalem studying Islamic and Middle Eastern Studies before serving as an officer.

Campus Police Blotter

10/26 Little Library
Property Theft
Unknown person(s) stole a $20 bill from a wallet which had been left unsecured in their handbag at the Little Library. Nothing else was taken.

10/28
Property Theft
Unknown person(s) stole $120 from a wallet between 10:30 p.m. on October 21 and 5:00 a.m. on October 28.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety