THE DAVIDSONIAN

HUMOR

Goose jokes retired at ceremony

This past Thursday, in a ceremony taking place in the Duke Family Performance Hall, all jokes having to do with Davidson College’s infamous goose incident of 2003 were officially retired from active use. The “goose incident,” in which six pledges of the now-defunct Kappa Sigma fraternity used golf clubs to beat a goose to death, gained national notoriety for the six, as well as the college. In short time, the incident became part of the college discourse, and soon after, many jokes emerged having to do with what some saw as the ridiculousness of the episode or what others saw as an overreaction by the media, college, and the United States judicial system.

Explained Martin Underwood ’03, “During the heyday of the goose mania, you couldn’t go more than eight minutes without hearing a goose-related joke. It was almost like a rule, when in doubt, just make a goose beating joke. Even back then, in the fading spring glory of my Davidson career, the jokes got a little old.”

The move to retire the jokes stemmed from what Troy Scranton ’06 described as “a general tiredness of the goose jokes.” Scranton continued, “I’ll be honest, I never thought that the goose jokes were that funny. But now, one and a half years after the whole thing, it’s time to end them. I mean, isn’t there anything else people could joke about?”

Officially, the quest for retirement began at a September 3 SGA meeting, when Sophomore Senator August Jackson brought up his sentiments on the goose issue. After a seventy-minute deliberation, the SGA voted to form a committee to discuss possible actions, ranging from a moratorium on goose jokes to outright retirement. When the committee presented their findings on September 16, they recommended that the SGA pursue a policy of goose joke retirement. The bill to retire the goose jokes was quickly ratified, and the retirement ceremony was scheduled for September 23.

Most students are relieved by the move. Said Claire Wilson ’07, “I wasn’t even here for the whole goose thing. It’s all I heard about when I was a prospective. ‘At least it wasn’t a goose’ or ‘It’s not a party until somebody kills a goose.’ It just gets old after like two years.”

Many in the administration do agree that the retirement is a good idea, but for a different rationale than the students’ reasons. Associate Dean of Students Anthony Lepage said, “We should just forget about the whole thing; it’s done. The whole experience was embarrassing for the college. The sooner it’s swept under the rug, the better.”

Others are angry about the retirement. Claimed Mike Wilton ’06, “The goose incident is still hilarious! They beat a goose with golf clubs! You can’t make up that kind of stuff!” Jess Hamilton ’05 alleged that “the administration is clearly stealing some of the students’ history in order to be more presentable. By forcing a retirement of the goose incident, they rob from us our very freedom to joke about things that are very meaningful to each and every one of us.”

Still, some do not plan on observing the retirement, as there is no punishment for contravention. Said Craig Linson ’05, “We're just going to keep on making goose joke after goose joke. If they take that away, how could we entertain? We got nothing.”

Furthermore, according to some sources, goose jokes are not the only jokes to be retired, as recent discussions within the SGA may allegedly lead to the retirement of duffle bag jokes in the very near future.

9th Annual Voice Your Choice Food Show: A shining moment for Dining Services

Last Tuesday, I attended the 9th Annual Voice Your Choice food show in the Vail Commons. As a journalist, I was there to inquire about and observe the potential new delicacies to be added to the menu, but as a student, I was there to participate in perhaps the best food-related event on campus.

When I came close to the Vail Commons building, my excitement reached its climax. As I descended down the stairs I could hear the mix of loud, thumping music and the cries of joy echoing upwards. I stepped off the last step and the festive scene revealed itself. My eyes beheld vendors as far as the eye could see, students waiting in lines for samples, and others crowding around the tables to feast on their spoils. A professional DJ was playing hit songs and telling hilarious jokes. Everyone on campus seemed to be there. I saw professors, physical plant staff, and even soccer players enjoying the atmosphere.

While I was waiting in line to pay the measly four-dollar fee, I heard one student with a smile from ear to ear rush by saying, “This is like a dream.” And perhaps it was a dream. Prizes were being distributed left and right. Students seemed to have an extra skip in their step. People were happy. If variety is the spice of life, then commons served up a “five alarm” food show. Local vendors from all over the greater Charlotte area brought in the finest of their freshly prepared products. Everything was homemade and, in my opinion, delicious. EvenMore difficult to believe was that all this amazing food was all-you-can-eat! A local ice cream shop, Breyers, was the first booth I visited: Eating dessert first is not something I usually do, but that’s the beauty of these annual food shows: they rip you away from your comfort zone of eating off the chef's table every afternoon, and toss you headfirst into an overwhelmingly diverse culinary experience. It’s not every day that you are able to get ice cream in Commons! Another important booth was the local wing company, Dutch Quality. In my understanding, Commons will use the most popular of their wings, either the Garlipper or the Buffalo Wings, for the upcoming Commons Chicken Wing Eating Contest.

For most people, the Commons food show is like a Christmas in late September. On several separate occasions, I heard students saying, “I’m so happy right now” or “this is like eating at a restaurant. Everything’s so good and fresh.” Others, however, questioned the naivety of those who enjoy such a display. Aaron Smith ’05 is one such student. “Doesn’t anyone see that this is all an excuse for Commons to take a day off while still serving the same mass-produced junk? They don’t ever serve any of the food we vote for. Check the hot rolls drawer a month from now and you'll see it still has the same stale, lukewarm rolls in it, instead of the Ciabatta Variety dinner roll you voted for.”

Despite what the naysayers might say, the 9th Annual Vote Your Choice Food Show was a shining moment for Dining Services. Not only does it help the local economy and connect students to the community, but it sure makes for one delicious and satisfying lunch.

By Jeffery Yeakel

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2004

College crams for SACS review

Davidson has begun to prepare the campus for its accreditation renewal with the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, and the administration has been working overtime to get ready for the review. Members of the Office of Planning and Institutional Research, the group assigned to oversee Davidson’s compliance with SACS regulations, have reportedly been working 18-hour days and drinking 10-12 cups of coffee. Most of the work involves pouring through a 600-page manual of rules and regulations. Elaine Scolnick, the director of Planning and Institutional Research, says teamwork has helped them get through all of the material. “Well, none of us really kept up with the reading, so we split the manual up into six different sections and are emailing each other our notes. Dean Jeffrey Hammond hasn't sent his to us yet, and my friend Betsy says she saw him out drinking at Warner last night. That is so totally not cool.” Scolnick believes they will be well prepared for the review, especially if Hammond’s friend with the Ritalin prescription comes through for them.

The SACS evaluates and accredits numerous undergraduate and grammar schools in the southeastern United States. Other below-the-Dixie Line academic institutions facing renewal include Duke University, Wake Forest University, and Jim Bob’s School of Veterinary Medicine. The grading process is said to be very stringent; Jim Bob's School is said to have failed their recent SACS review when it was discovered that instead of actually healing rabbits, they just buy a new rabbit that looks like the old one. Problems like this one are exactly what the Planning office is trying to avoid.

The SACS evaluation is threefold: academics, student life, and aesthetics. The academic evaluation mostly involves depth and difficulty of material taught and student proficiency. Material difficulty at Davidson gets a boost from classes like Physics, Mathematics, Spanish, and other classes that students such as sophomore Marissa Marks claim are “like, totally impossible to understand.” Dean Joseph Hafker believes Davidson’s high academic standards will sail past the SACS’ requirements; however, he has been quoted as asking some members of certain less demanding departments to “wear janitor uniforms for a while.”

Similarly, campus aesthetics have not been regarded as much of a problem. Davidson’s beautiful brick buildings and lush green lawns are renowned across the Southeast. Problematic, however, may be some of the college’s uglier students. Hafker discussed possible remedies to this touchy issue, “We haven't discussed a cage per se, but there have been talks of some sort of an enclosure. Needless to say, any affected students will have regular feeding times and daily outdoor playtime to run around or dig.”

The review of student life, however, is a different issue. Many members of the administration are reportedly worried about the state of Davidson’s social scene. Even though the quality of life at Davidson is currently ranked number one overall by the Princeton Review, they worry that it has peaked due to an increase in sub-free housing, more strict policing, and unnecessary student petition tables in front of Chambers have been on the rise. Numerous plans aimed at student life have been suggested; one favored proposal is to lure the many squirrels to the Cross Country Trails.

Overall, everyone believes that the College will be ready within fifteen minutes of the evaluation. The SACS is known for tough reviews, but with the Office of Planning and Institutional Research pulling an all-nighter, Davidson’s renewal should be a safe bet.

Write for YOWL

THIS SPACE FOR SALE

Contact brparets@davidson.edu with your ideas, comments, or suggestions.