THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004 3

Jack Hubbard ’06
Political Science Major
“An aggressive and determined President of SGA willing to tackle the tough issues involving the Union Cafe meal plan, the pass/fail deadline, and our ridiculously early spring break.”

Andrew Yancey ’05
Political Science Major
“I am part of a student body with a wide variety of talents and desires...I will...ensure that students have the most opportunities to go wherever these talents and desires take them.”

Katharine Hubbard ’05
English Major
“[SGA] has become a part of my Davidson experience. My vision of SGA is not an organization composed of a select group of students doing all the work, but an association representing all individuals.”

SGA Vice President

Francois Trappey ’06
Chemistry Major
“[I have] served on SGA for two years. What I can bring to the table as SGA Vice President is experienced leadership in the SGA, and a committed, proven drive to improve the quality of our student government.”

Union Board President

Nathan Cox ’05
Political Science Major
Wants to “keep up the action-packed program that's been part of the Union Board;” wants “more diverse groups” and more controversial speakers to get students to think; and wants “to maintain the type of programs that Davidson students like.”

ATC Vice Chair

Adam Gerstenmier ’05
Economics Major
“To be able to appropriately divide the student activities fee among so many competing organizations...is a difficult task that I hope you allow me to be a crucial part of for my final two years at Davidson as well.”

Brandon Zeigler ’05
Economics Major
“I am running for the ATC Vice Chair because I want to assure that current and future campus organizations have the financial support needed to thrive on campus.”

Photos by Dorsett Clark

Teach, from page 1
special assistance.

“[Teach for America] is targeting low-income kids that they basically already know are the most-need kids,” Jackson said.

“Those kids typically need the most and they need the teachers with the most experience, but what the program is doing is sending teachers with the least experience.”

Jackson also criticized Teach For America for marketing itself as a “pit stop” on the road to graduate school or a “real job.”

Since the program lasts for only two years, many participants exit the teaching profession just as they have started to gain experience. Thus, Teach For America might exacerbate one of the greatest problems confronting America’s current educational system: high turnover rates among teachers.

Jackson added, “The idea that you’re just going in to teach for two years is going to decrease investment [in students] and motivation.”

Elizabeth Devlin ’04, one of two on-campus coordinators for the program, admitted that she does not plan to make teaching her career but noted that Teach For America alumni positively affect public schools long after their commitment has ended.

“I think that the kind of students Teach For America chooses, after their experience, will go out into the larger national community to affect bigger system changes,” Devlin said. “I think that there are many things that need to be changed from the top-down.”

Devlin said that program participants relate well to their students because they are closer to them in age than their more experienced fellow-teachers.

Also, they are filled with enthusiasm and have not yet been “disillusioned” by years of teaching. Devlin expressed her admiration for the “amazing enthusiasm and dedication” Teach For America representatives have for children.

She said, “I was just really drawn to the mission of Teach For America which is to end educational inequities in our country.”

Established in 1990, Teach For America works to provide an “excellent education” for all children who live in the United States.

Devlin said that 35 Davidson students have begun an online application, although not all will choose to submit their application.

A total of 30 Davidson graduates currently participate or have participated in Teach For America.

Applicants will receive a letter indicating whether they have been selected for an interview by February 24 and should receive final notification of their acceptance in early to mid-April.

Love Responsibly:
Free HIV Testing Drive

February 12
10:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. and 1:00-4:00 p.m.
Student Health Center

For information or to sign up for testing, email Georgia Ringle at geringle@davidson.edu, Judy Kaplan at jukaplan@davidson.edu, or Hanako Kawabata at hakawabata@davidson.edu

Sponsored by the Adopt-a-Country AIDS Campaign.

Senior Class Gift Update
100%

Congratulations, Seniors!
The Senior Class Gift has reached 71.2% PAID participation

IF THE CLASS REACHES 73% PAID PARTICIPATION, PRESIDENT AND MRS. VAGT WILL CONTRIBUTE $12,004

To pay your pledge online, visit The Annual Fund website at www.davidson.edu/giving or mail check or cash to The Annual Fund, Box 7170. Please contact Molly Shaw (x2831) or Maria Tardugno (x2113) with questions.