THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, March 24, 2004

News
Davidson to host Bank of America Conference

Stephen Krasner
“The Exhaustion of Sovereignty”
Sunday, March 28, 8:00 p.m.
Duke Family Performance Hall

Student Involvement

Members of the Dean Rusk Program’s Student Advisory Committee (SAC) have attempted to encourage student interest in the conference by hanging informational banners around campus and soliciting volunteers to make conference-related presentations to their classes.

Josh Craft ’04, Co-Chair of the SAC, said that about 15 to 20 students volunteered to make presentations.

Alexander said that the Dean Rusk Program has made a conscious effort to involve students in the conference. Student volunteers will serve as handlers for the speakers, driving them to and from the airport and showing them around campus. Other students will eat lunch and dinner with the speakers and introduce them before some of the events.

An endowment fund that was created by what is now called Bank of America supports the conference.

Charlene Barshefsky
“Global Trade and Economic Interests”
Monday, March 29, 3:00 p.m.
Smith 900 Room

Kwesi Botchwey
“Trade, Sovereignty, and the Challenges of Development”
Monday, March 29, 8:00 p.m.
Duke Family Performance Hall

Kurt Campbell
“Preemption, Deterrence, and the Politics of Alliances”
Tuesday, March 30, 3:00 p.m.
Smith 900 Room

Traditional definitions of the sovereign state have become increasingly useless in today’s world.

Day Two

On Monday, March 29, Thea Lee, Assistant Director for International Economics at the AFL-CIO, and Ambassador Charlene Barshefsky, U.S. Trade Representative from 1997 to 2001, will conduct a panel discussion on global trade.

Lee worries that U.S. manufacturing jobs have fled overseas and calls for an end to “unfair trade agreements” and an “overvalued dollar.” Barshefsky, on the other hand, condemns most protectionist trade legislation and is a staunch proponent of free trade.

Later that evening, Kwesi Botchwey, Executive Chairman of the African Development Policy Ownership Initiative, will speak about trade and economic development.

Botchwey laments the decrease in foreign direct investment to low-income countries and urges developed states to drop some of their protectionist barriers.

The next day, March 30, Kurt Campbell, Senior Vice President at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, will discuss preemption, deterrence, and the politics of alliances.

Fareed Zakaria wrote that in Iraq, the U.S. must “first establish a stable security environment and create the institutions of limited government” before it attempts to construct a “full-fledged democracy.”

Day Four

Stephen Mills, Director of International Affairs at the Sierra Club, and Kathryn Washburn, Director of International Affairs at the U.S. Department of the Interior, will debate the politics of sustainable development on Wednesday, March 31.

As representatives of an environmental advocacy organization and a government agency respectively, Mills and Washburn often adopt conflicting positions on development issues.

David Runnalls, President and Chief Executive Officer of the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD), will conclude the Bank of America Conference with his Wednesday evening address.

Runnalls works closely on sustainable development projects and, through his job with the IISD, encourages the private sector to embrace social responsibility and sustainable development.

Craft urged students to attend as many events at the conference as possible, helping to understand the complex and important international issues being discussed.

Radek Sikorski
“Preemption, Deterrence, and the Politics of Alliances”
Tuesday, March 30, 3:00 p.m.
Smith 900 Room

David Runnalls
“Can We Save the World Without the US?”
Wednesday, March 31, 8:00 p.m.
Duke Family Performance Hall

Stephen Mills
“Managing the Commons: the Global Politics of Sustainable Development”
Wednesday, March 31, 3:00 p.m.
Smith 900 Room

Fareed Zakaria
“The Next Security Crisis: Global Threats and US Foreign Policy”
Tuesday, March 30, 8:00 p.m.
Duke Family Performance Hall