4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News | Service trip to Haiti postponed due to political unrest

By Blair McGraw
Senior Staff Writer

A group of Davidson students planning to travel to Haiti over spring break has decided to postpone the trip until
the summer. The decision came last week as political unrest and violence continued to grow in the Caribbean nation.

“It is a shame that we have to postpone, but I think it is the only responsible decision we can
make at this time,” said Allison Whiteman ’06, who is in charge of the trip. Whiteman added that the violence
“is not going on close to where we will be, but I didn’t want to take too many risks.”

Recently, anti-government rebels took control of the city of Gonaives, in northern Haiti. The conflict has its roots in President
Jean-Bertrand Aristide’s victory during the disputed elections of 2000. Opposition groups have called the results fraudulent. According to BBC News,
the violence has claimed around 70 lives since September. The deteriorating economic situation in Haiti has also contributed to the
current situation.

According to Whiteman, the goal of the trip is more than just service — it is also a learning experience.
“We will be doing some service projects, but I think it is important to learn about the culture before we
can do anything,” Whiteman said.

SGA, from page 1

Union Board President. The presidential campaign this year focused on several hot issues that have grabbed students’ attention in recent
months. Katherine Hubbard had campaigned on extending the Pass/Fail deadline past its current date and working with the administration to
offer course credit to students who participate in summer internships. Among her other goals for the coming year, Hubbard hopes
to extend CatCard use to other parts of Davidson.

“If the trial period for CatCard use off campus works, I would like to extend that to more businesses,” Hubbard
said. Hubbard also hopes to enact the Improve Davidson Fund, first thought up by former SGA President Gray Patterson. Hubbard
described the goal of the Improve Davidson Fund as a “collaboration of many organizations for a common project of a
string of events that would better our community.” Through this initiative, Hubbard hopes to create greater collaboration among different groups
to get them working together on large projects such as events at the Lake Campus in the spring.

Trappey’s campaign for Vice President focused on restructuring and reevaluating SGA standing committees to get more students involved in the
decision-making process. Trappey also pushed for getting cable in dorm rooms within a reasonable time period and installing printers for
student use in the Union.

After the election, Trappey suggested there should be an “attitude change” within SGA. “I think that very visionary ideas can
be cultivated in the Senate and on SGA committees,” Trappey said, “but I think these ideas need an environment where
there are effective lines of delegation, more student input and involvement, and where there is more pressure on the administration
for action.”

By delegating authority more clearly to various committees, Trappey hopes to help the President accomplish her goals more effectively. Washington
expressed full confidence in the

“I want my group members to not just see the poverty of Haiti but to see the other types of
wealth that it has to offer.” The group of 14 Davidson students and one adult trip-leader from Whiteman’s church in
Raleigh will spend most of their time in Haiti’s capital, Port-au-Prince. Some of the activities of the trip include a
visit to a church in Cite Soleil, the poorest slum in the Western hemisphere, a visit to an old slave
plantation, and a hiking trip to the Bason Bleu in Jacmel. The students will also be working at a home
for disabled children and teaching a computer class to poor sixth graders. The trip is officially sponsored by the DCPC,
but that was primarily for grant writing purposes. Thestudents applied for Dean Rusk and Staley grants. The students were also
able to raise money during a 24-hour fast which was held last week. Over 100 people donated to the trip
during the fast. Whiteman said she had been planning the trip to Haiti since last summer, when she talked to
her friend Clark Scalera ’01, who currently lives there. “We got our group finalized in November, and we have all
been working hard ever since,” Whiteman said. The trip will probably now take place in August.

Category I Election Results
SGA President: Katharine Hubb
SGA Vice-President: Francois Awad
Union Board President: Wale
Union Board Vice-President: Jennifer M
Activities Tax Council (AFC) Vice Chairperson: Advisors Defense Student Solicitor
United Community Action President

Future leaders of SGA. “Katharine is organized, knowledgeable, and has a great working relationship with the administration,” Washington said. “Francois
will bring an energy to the SGA that will encourage new ideas, and strong participation from the Senate.” Both Trappey
and Hubbard agree that extending the Pass/Fail deadline is one of the most important issues that need to be discussed
in the coming year.

Athletic Policy Trustee: Brandon Zctigict
Finance and Budget Trustee: Samu Jarrah
Academic and Educational Policy Trustee: Patel
Admissions and Financial Aid Trustee: Gardner
Buildings and Grounds Trustee: Hay
College Relations Trustee: Student Conduct Council

“We all want to do well here so we can accomplish the goals we’ve set for ourselves when we graduate,”
said Trappey. “That’s why I think that projects like extending the pass/fail deadline are so crucial to our community.” Despite
all of the ideas both student leaders have for the coming year, Hubbard is still always open to new suggestions.
“I gain a lot of my ideas from those around me. Davidson students are an amazing source for ideas in
our community,” Hubbard said.

Wednesday, February 18, 2004

Trustees, from page 1

Church in Raleigh and a trustee said via email, “By reading articles on the Reformed Tradition, listening to presentations and
sharing in discussion, the Trustees began to get deeper insight into what it means to be a college shaped by
the Reformed Tradition.” While discussion on the trustee religion requirement was not part of the agenda, the topic remained the
backdrop for much of the retreat. According to McCartney, “several suggestions were made” about the requirement. “One of the outcomes
[of the meeting] was to ask the executive committee to examine this issue,” he said. The executive committee of the
Board is comprised of the Chair, Vice-Chair, Secretary, President, Chairs of the standing committees and three members appointed by the
Chair. President Vagt said via email, “As with most Excoms, it is empowered to act on behalf of the full
Board, to consider issues between meetings of the full Board, and refer and make recommendations to the full Board.” McCartney
said the requirement “will be addressed over the next couple of meetings.” The Christian requirement for Trustees has been a
topic of debate among many students, many of whom feel the makeup of the Board of Trustees should represent the
religious diversity already visible in the student body. Several sections of the Board’s Bylaws require trustees to affirm their commitment
to the Christian faith. Article IV reads, “It is natural and desirable that the educational service of a church-related College
should be carried forward from one generation to another by persons committed to the Christian faith.” Last November trustees voiced
their support for the Board’s Christian membership requirement, claiming the College’s Christian commitment provided a more open and inclusive atmosphere
to students of all faiths. “The discussion was both stimulating and wide-ranging,” McCartney said of the retreat. “A broad consensus
of trustees felt that we accomplished our objective of building a sound education and understanding on these issues, which will
serve us well in the future.”
