THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, March 31, 2004 3

ATC approves funding for Goldberg lecture

By JOHN HELMS
Staff Writer

At the SGA meeting on Thursday, the ATC proposed several expenditures.

One of the more notable items on the ATC’s list was the approval of funding for guest speaker, Jonah Goldberg, of the National Review, to come to Davidson on April 7.

The proposal asked for $1,500 to go towards the $6,510 that is needed to bring Goldberg to campus. The original amount requested was for the full $6,510.

Some suggested that the rest of the money be raised from sources such as the Union Board, but the Union Board is not planning to allocate any more funds until after the Ben Folds concert in April.

SGA senator Jack Hubbard ’06 emphasized the need for more conservative speakers on campus. “There is a drought of conservative speakers on campus,” he said.

The speaker was invited and paid for by the College Republicans. The overall impression was that the members of SGA wanted assurance that they were dealing with funding for the College Republicans in the same way that they allocate funds for the Young Democrats.

Little opposition to the proposal was expressed when the vote was taken. Most of the SGA members voted for the proposed funding and a few voted against it or abstained from voting.

“I am very pleased that Mr. Goldberg will be coming this month,” Hubbard said. “I think SGA made the right decision and I stand by my vote.”

Jonah Goldberg of the National Review.

Category II Election Results

SGA Senior President
Claire DeBord

Senior Senators
Maria Tess Leppert

SGA Junior President
Jack Hubbard

Junior Senators
Annie Butler
Christina Boyce

SGA Sophomore President
Jac Skelton

Sophomore Senators
Bill Moore
Wilson McCrory

Senior Honor Council
Megan Lyle

Junior Honor Council
David Crane
Oliver Foley

Sophomore Honor Council
Joel Hewett
Bryant Kirkland
Elizabeth Ireland

Trespassing incidents raise questions about college policy

By ZACH KAZIOR
Staff Writer

Five incidents of trespassing in the last seven months have raised questions over whether there is an official policy about non-Davidson people coming onto the campus.

According to Campus Police Chief Fountain Walker, Dean of Students Tom Shandley, and Associate Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano, there are no policies that prohibit a visitor from coming on campus, as long as they are law-abiding and don’t cause disturbance.

However, President Bobby Vagt describes college policy a little more strictly. “Solicitation of students on campus is strictly forbidden,” he said.

Vagt said, “We like to be generally open to the community to the extent that it doesn’t impinge upon the students and faculty.”

There are a large number of visitors on this campus every week, said Shandley, especially with admissions tours, concerts, and other events going on all the time.

Although there is no official policy concerning visitors in general, there is a 72 hour/4 nights a month limit to how long a guest may stay in a residence hall. Furthermore, any guest is the responsibility of the hosting student.

Dean Marsicano believes that it is a good thing that the college has no policy limiting the amount of visitors on campus.

Marsicano said that we would be isolating ourselves from the world and all the interesting and challenging people in it if we were to limit visitors.

“We can hardly train students for lives of leadership and service if they never experience the world they are training to lead and serve.

As a community, we are willing to accept some risk of dangerous or dishonest people coming to campus because that is the only way we can let the interesting, inspiring non-Davidson people have access to the campus.

“We can all work together with the Campus Police to limit the risk,” Marsicano said.

The Honor Code, Marsicano said, is both aspirational and realistic, articulating what we hope and strive for, but at the same time recognizing that humans make mistakes and requiring that violators be turned in.

Students must appreciate the special freedoms the Honor Code affords, while at the same time taking common sense steps to protect themselves, such as locking rooms and making sure valuables are safe.

Walker said that students can do a lot to prevent trespassing by communicating suspicions to the police.

“Information sharing is very important to law enforcement agencies as well as the communities they serve. We are better able to locate individuals suspected of criminal activity or charged criminally,” Walker said.

Walker said that it is the goal of the Campus Police to promote and provide a safe environment for the campus community as well as visitors.

To be consistent, sometimes even relatively harmless visitors are asked to leave. Recently Vagt told Walker, “The ice cream man on campus has got to go.”

“The Public Safety and Police Department encourages collaboration and participation of students, faculty, and staff to identify such persons so that this Department can resolve any issues if they exist,” said Walker.

see Trespassing, page 4

Rape Awareness Week
April 1-8, 2004

Thursday April 1st:
Carnations will be placed around dorms to represent victims of rape or sexual assaults that occurred there.

Tuesday April 6th:
Take Back the Night
7:30 in the 900 Room

Take Back the Night is a forum where women and men who have been raped or sexually assaulted are given the opportunity to speak about their experience. It is a large step in the healing process for many individuals. If you are a survivor of rape or sexual assault and wish to share your story, please email either bedashabeb@davidson.edu, krlothman@davidson.edu, or geringle@davidson.edu to get more information.

Thursday April 8th:
“No Visible Bruises”
7 pm in the 900 Room
part of the Bean Bag Series

Rape Awareness Week is sponsored by the Rape Awareness Committee and RLO.