Trustees procrastinate SEE PAGE 3 Union Café Snapple case finally refilled “Urban Plunge” officially worst break ever SEE PAGE 8
Field Hockey team tries really really hard

HUMOR UBI ORTA UBE A RTAS DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

Davidson's Journalism Experiment October 27, 2004

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2004 The Davidsonian

Admissions policy to be drastically changed

Change is brewing in the Davidson College Admissions. On Friday, the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid will officially release
their revised expectations and standards of admission for applicants to the school. Along with these general guidelines, the Office will
also, for the first time, release an “Admissions Matrix” which they will run all applicants through to assess their likelihood
of admission to the class of ’09.

Newly hired Dean of Admissions John Duran is excited about both the efficiency and impartiality improvements that are expected to
come with the new matrix, as in the past each student’s application had to be personally reviewed by an admissions
officer, a process that took much time and could potentially be subjective. Said Duran, “This new matrix will solve many
of the problems we’ve been battling in the admissions process. The matrix will primarily be used to weed out those
students who would typically be ‘clear denials.’ The program will automatically change those students’ decisions in the Banner system used
for organizing decisions. This way, the counselors don’t have to waste their time reviewing applications that would not meet the
rigorous standards of this highly-selective institution, and they could spend more time making the tougher admission decisions.”

Duran continued explaining the workings of the matrix, “The matrix program would give each student a numerical value based on
a number of things we're looking for in a student, this total score we have named the ‘Wildcat Worth Indicator’
or WWI for short. Some examples of these include: High School GPA, SAT/ACT scores, Athletic Prowess, and Strength of Schedule.
In addition, the picture sent in with a student’s application is carrying a lot more weight this year. Once the
scores are compiled, we will sort them from highest to lowest and begin reading. That way if we run out
of time and can’t review some applications, it won’t really matter because they have a low score. It’s a

First year student removed from Connor House Semi-Formal for lack of date

Last Saturday night, Connor held its annual fall semi-formal. The themed event was open to all first-year women with invitations
and their respective dates from the hours of 10:00 PM-12:00 AM. Afterwards, it was open to all Davidson College students
from 12-2 AM. “The hours were very clearly printed on the invitations and on the Social Calendar,” said Connor House
Social Chair Sabrina Moore ’05. Moore emphasized the point, “I don’t see how anyone could have gotten confused about who
was allowed into the closed portion of the party. It clearly said it was open only to girls with invitations
and their dates, but I had to kick some guy out at about 11 who was there alone, with no
date.”

The student removed from the party was first-year student David McMahon. McMahon claimed he had no clue that the party
was closed. “Like I read the Social Calendar,” stated McMahon. When asked how he got into the party with no
invitation or date, he had this to say: “I walked in the front door.”

Some students believe that McMahon consciously tried to sneak into the closed party. Said Connor member Jessica Leigh ’06 “It’s
so obvious that he tried to crash our party so he could hang out with the beautiful people. After all,
who wears khakis and a tie down to the court? It just makes me feel unsafe to know that any
loser without an invite could possibly sneak into one of our parties. We really need to increase security at our
upcoming date functions to make sure that none of the riff-raff creep in before 12.”

Other students were less forgiving of the Connor Eating House. Said Warner Hall member Bridget Clark ’07 “Just because they
might be having some financial difficulties does not lessen the embarrassment that they should feel with this mishap. It’s unbelievable
to me that some random kid could sneak into a date-only semi-formal. It really makes me question the security at
these functions. If that guy can get into a heavily secured date-only function, then what about terrorists?”

Connor members were extremely embarrassed about the incident, but claim that it was hard to prevent, as McMahon was successful
at mimicking

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Humor Section

SEEN DOWN AT THE COURT: Bobby Kenner, Cameron Hardesty, Nathan Bradshaw, Dan Hudspeth

SENIOR STAFF WRITER: Jerry Yeakel

EDITOR: Brendan Parets

Students with story suggestions or interested in writing should contact the editor at brparets@davidson.edu

Note: If you haven't been living in Richardson Hall for the past six months, then you should know that the
Yowl is a satiricalHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"Very logical way to look at admissions, and one that many Ivy League and large state schools have been using
for years. The rest of the admissions office and I are very excited about the new matrix.” Many of the
faculty and students have expressed vocal opposition to the unveiling of this new process, though. Classics professor Dr. Dan Gilmore
said, “This new system flies in the face of everything this college has stood for in the past. Instead of
individually reviewing each student’s integrity and academic strength, we are now simply relying on numbers.” Math major Russel Caldwell ’06
added, “I’ve looked at the matrix, and it is obviously very biased towards potential athletes. I thought this school prided
itself on not lowering admission requirements for athletes at all, but with this new matrix it’s clear the administration has
taken a 180-degree turn in its policy. It seems apparent that next year’s class will have athletes accepted that are
not as qualified academically as the rest of the student body.” Sociology professor Dr. Amanda MacDowell, on the other hand,
is pleased with the new matrix. “A new process will relieve some of the pressure that had been put on
the Admissions Office over the last few years, and will get new types of students into our classes.” Admissions Officer
O.J. McGrath disagreed with claims that the new matrix is biased towards athletes, wealthy students, and attractive applicants. “The new
matrix accurately predicts applicants’ expected worth to the Davidson College student body. If athletes, rich people, and attractive girls and
guys seem to be helped, well that’s just because they are arguably much more important to the school than some
dork who just studies for class and maybe does a little charity work on the side.”

Some dork who just studies for class and maybe does a little charity work on the side or something. Obviously,
we are saving a couple of spots for students who fit the classical definition of ‘smart,’ and depending on the
recruiting needs of our varsity sports, perhaps a couple of ‘artistic’ ones could be let in too.”

The actions of a legitimate invited date. “Who knows how long that kid was in our party?” questioned Moore. “It
was hard to spot him, because he was all dressed up with a tie and everything. When I first spotted
him by himself leaning up against a wall, I thought maybe his date had gone to the bathroom or something.
But then I looked back about 10 minutes later and he was still standing there, staring at the other people
dancing.” Moore first asked McMahon who his date was. After McMahon responded that he didn’t have one, Moore asked him
to leave the party, informed him that it opened to everyone at 12, and invited him to come back then
to party with the “Jesters of the Court.” McMahon claims the incident was much more violent than Moore reported. “I
just happened to be wandering by Connor when I heard the loud music and ecstatic screams of joy. I figured
I’d check out the party. I had no clue that invite-only parties were so selective and secretive! I mulled around
for a while, danced with a few fine ladies, and then this huge guy comes up to me and tells
me I need to, quote, ‘get the [expletive deleted] out.’ So obviously I left, but not before swiping one of
their 2-liter bottles of Mountain Dew. I thought about coming back a few minutes later and sneaking in the back,
but there was a well-placed overturned table and a couch blocking the steps of the porch that were obstructing my
entrance.”

Davidsonian Article of the Week 3 originated on their annual retreat. Staff infections contained

Adam Martin & Carey Baxter

Many Trustees have also come down with Staph, which is thought to have originated on their annual retreat. Staff infections
contained

News Editor & Staff Writer

2003. The Residence Life Office, Health Services, Building Services, and Athletic staffs have responded in full force to contain and
prevent the spread of a particular strain of bacteria called Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus (MRSA). This fall, MRSA infected about six
trustees and Davidson staff. Twelve students, despite a seemingly low number, have been affected by the bacterial infection in the
fall of 2003. The administration is taking every precaution. “It's obviously contagious, and you can die from it,” said Leslie
Marsicano, Director of Residence Life (RLO) and Associate Dean of Students. “We don’t want people to panic, but we want
people to be wise.” Most cases of MRSA can be “resolved within about 10 days” with certain antibiotics, according to
Dr. Craig White. In rare cases, though, MRSA enters the bloodstream and could be fatal. White is one of two
part-time Student Health physicians at Davidson. RLO issued a health alert through email two weeks ago, warning students.

See MRSA, page 4
