14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2004

Cross Country teams blaze different trails in 2004 season

By PIERCE TRUMBO

Staff Writer

As the fall sports season dawns, the women’s and men’s cross country teams are journeying down different trails. The women
are seeking to defend and build upon their first-ever Southern Conference Title from a year ago. The men, meanwhile, led
by 19-year Head Coach Gary Andrew, are hoping to improve upon last year’s sixth-place conference finish.

Improvement for the men, while certainly possible, will not be without obstacles. After losing three of their top seven runners
from a year ago, including most-valuable runner Chris Schmader ’04, the men have several holes to fill. A series of
off-season problems, ranging from mononucleosis to a leg injury, will not make this process any easier.

These problems, though nagging and inconvenient, are hardly insurmountable, and Andrew is optimistic about the upcoming season. Captains Jonathan Baker
’06, last year’s leading point scorer, and Nick Lehman ’05, according to Andrew, “have taken their roles seriously and are
working hard to bring the team together.” Additionally, sophomores John Doehring ’07, Andrew Hazen ’07, Douglas Noreen ’07, and Alex
Varner ’07 “have the potential to contribute to the team effort and step it up over last year,” according to
Andrew.

The freshman crop is also promising, as Andrew has been impressed with the early season training of Sam Morris ’08
and Andy Kilfer ’08 and expects that after the adjustment to the collegiate format, they will “be in our top
seven, if not in our top five.”

Also contributing will be Lee Wheless ’05, Austin Mercadante ’06, and Matt Rhodes ’07, who has just returned to training
after a severe case of mono. Wheless is at last healthy this year. Baker believes he, along with Mercadante, are
the runners to watch. Baker also said Mercadante has “been leading most workouts” this year, which is not surprising since
the junior paced the Wildcats in the season-ending NCAA regionals with a time of 32:43 in the 10K race last
year.

Overall, Andrew was pleased with the off-season efforts, and he feels that with “some tweaking,” his team’s mindset will be
where it needs to be. He expects “that everyone will round into racing form by mid-October, just in time for
the Southern Conference Championships.” Lehman supported this sentiment, saying, “If we stay focused and work together as a team, we’ll
surprise some people on October 30.”

The women, on the other hand, return six members from last year’s championship team and add a group of nine
new runners that senior co-captain Anna Brew ’05 termed the “best recruiting class the women’s program has ever had.” As
a result, it appears that women are set for another impressive season.

The nine newcomers include five freshmen, Megal Atias ’08, Brenna Burns ’08, Brittany Crawford ’08, Colleen McKown ’08, and Annie
O’Donnell ’08. Also joining the team will be sophomore Sara Madison Davenport ’07 and senior Meghan Fillnow ’05. Meghan is
the twin sister of Kelly Fillnow ’05, the second-place finisher at last year’s Southern Conference Championship. Allie Martin ’06, Carolyn
Mohr ’06, and Lindley Swartz ’05 will likewise return to the team from time spent abroad. Rounding out the lineup
are Co-captain Ashley Griffith ’05, Sally Stanhope ’05, and Carissa Skrivanek ’06.

With such a strong group of runners this year, the ’Cats are aiming high yet again this season in hopes
of surpassing last year’s success. Said Brew, “This season we also have goals beyond the Southern Conference Championship. This November
we’ll run in the NCAA regional meet, and we hope to do well there. It’s possible for us to place
in the top five, which would be phenomenal, and qualify us for nationals.”

Brew also says that the team is like “a big family,” and that they “enjoy each other’s company and like
to hang out together” away from practices and meets as well. This camaraderie only adds to the excitement for the
upcoming year, as Brew said the team is “confident and excited” to defend their title under third-year and two-time Southern
Conference Coach of the Year Jen Straub.
