The Koresh Dance Company. Koresh dance returns to DC By Casey BREWTON Staff Writer Ronen Koresh, noted for his passionate
numbers and unique, powerful style, brings a distinguished aura to the dance world. His artistic genius is unique and his
incorporation of Israeli folk heritage makes him a pioneer among choreographers. The Koresh Dance Company, coming to Davidson’s Duke Family
Performance Hall on September 10, blends ballet, modern dance, jazz, and Koresh’s own Israeli folk heritage into a unique, fresh
style that the troupe can call their own. The Koresh Company has performed at Davidson once before in 2000. However,
the old Love Auditorium offered limited stage space and little to no wing space. Although their mini-performance of four years
ago was spectacular, it cannot compare to the full performance they are bringing to Davidson’s Duke Family Performance Hall this
Friday. The Company will also be offering master classes in hip-hop, Afro-modern, and modern jazz with ballet. Classes are free
but space is limited. Koresh’s connection to Israeli folk traditions comes from his early dancing years in Yemenite folk dancing.
He later went on to study with the distinguished Bat Sheva Dance Company where he decided he wanted to pursue
a dancing career. He arrived in New York City at age twenty and began to dance with the Alvin Ailey
American Dance Theater. After dancing his way through many companies, Koresh began to make the transition from dancer to choreographer
and teacher. Finally, in 1991, Koresh developed his unique style and opened his own company in Philadelphia, the Koresh Dance
Company. Koresh describes his choreography as “solid in its presentation and purpose” and “characteristic of the times we live in.”
In an effort to promote arts education, Koresh company members perform widely, from charity benefits to national festivals, to university
performance venues such as Davidson’s Duke Family Performance Hall. Creating two to three new pieces each year, Koresh’s repertoire now
boasts over forty works. The company’s house style is “a blend of contemporary and traditional,” according to Union Board Assistant
Director Lee Ann Bannerman. “Everything they do is beautiful and graceful and fresh,” continues Bannerman, “they exceed your expectations.” By
Jimmy NEWLIN Special Contributor I spent this past summer in Davidson, where I became as well acquainted with Comcast’s channel
lineup as I did with the microbrew aisle of the Birkdale establishment Total Wine. With all of the added stress
of my final school year (Blackboard posts, Colloquium readings, Davidsonian submissions and what-not), I need to memorize the 67 television
networks provided by the new CAT-TV like I need a badly skinned knee. Like most others, I have my own
notions regarding CAT-TV’s legitimacy. Every single, last incoming freshman, TV-less or not, will By MICHAEL CAVELL AND DARRYL RATCLIFF Staff
Writers This week, Davidson freshmen/fashion experts Darryl Ratcliff and Michael Cavell along with model/Davidson freshman Cody Elder evaluated the shopping
scene at the Cornelius Goodwill. Located on 19710 Kunkleman Dr., the Cornelius Goodwill offers great deals with shirts as low
as $2.49, blazers for only $4.99, slacks for only $3.79 and much more. Michael, Darryl, and Cody picked a variety
of outfits and here’s what they found with pictures: Below Left: Button-down white Van Heusen Fitted shirt with flipped-up collar.
Pink Duckster-manufactured Oak Island hat, Model- Cody Elder DR: Simple yet elegant with the sky grey lines adding a slimming
effect, emphasizing physique and hiding bulges. The popped collar lets everyone know that you mean business. MC: I’ve only got
one word for this—wowzers! This outfit is perfect for so many different situations—the happenin’ party, an 8:30 class, you can
use it as pajamas at bedtime—the possibilities are endless! Above Right: Extreme Gear Black, white, and grey cotton sweater. Sergio
Valente white linen pants. Blue and white striped flip-flops. Model- Cody Elder. MC: Warm weather is still here, but it
won’t last forever. This is a great fall look that works for pretty much everyone. Everyone wears sweaters and you
should too. DR: Who would have thought? Sergio Valente at Goodwill! At $3.79 these white linen pants are to die
for. Black and white is just such a classy combination. Enough said. have to pay for the luxury. Couldn’t the
college provide, forthose without Magnavoxes, CAT-TV vouchers applicable towards exorbitant lab and PE 101 fees? And isn’t the ability to
make do without television one of the great skills you learn as a freshman? The two most intriguing channel additions
to our campus’ cable provider are, ironically, blank screens. Looking on CAT-TV’s website I see channels 2 and 3 are
labeled “Davidson Channel 1” and “Davidson Channel 2;” will these vacant pauses on my Sanyo dial one day be filled
with Wildcat football and lacrosse games, a student-run news show, or even a broadcast of my student film “The Wild,
The Innocent and the Mooresville Shuffle?” Only time can tell.

Aside from the addition of the ominously christened “Davidson Channel 1” and “Davidson Channel 2” and the subtraction of the
endlessly helpful TV Guide Channel, our new cable provider is not that much more exciting aesthetically than those services provided
by Comcast. Still no HBO, Showtime, Pay Per View or Cinemax. Lots of boring C-SPAN clones remain, although it’s always
fun to tune in to respected journalist Bill O’Reilly’s show on Fox News to hear more screaming than a Jesus
Lizard record. I can’t quite remember if we had the Game Show Network before, but I discovered while researching this
piece that its buffed-up “Star Search” is awfully depressing; not least of all because it’s hosted by Arsenio Hall. Church-skippers
can catch up on televangelists and “Diagnosis Murder” on PAX-TV. We now get MTV2, which is heartening since they sometimes
show reruns of “Beavis and Butthead.” We also get VH1-Classic, which I hoped would be the MTV2 to VH1’s MTV,
but which is really more “Speed 2: Cruise Control” to VH1’s “Speed.” For unintentional hilarity on VH1-Classic, though, you really
can’t beat the $250 (Canadian) budget of Bryan Adams’ video for “Cuts Like a Knife.” Leather jackets in an empty
swimming pool? Golly pete. It’s amazing everyone else with a guitar didn’t just give up.

Arts & LIVING fashion for cheap prices

Right: Alan Lolly pink and blue striped short sleeve button shirt with a Duckster Oak Island pink hat and baby
blue t-shirt. Model- Darryl Ratcliff.
MC: I love pink—enough said.
DR: This screams take me to a gallery. Funky and fresh. Two thumbs up for the pink hat. Once again
it all comes down to accessories.

Right: Arrow Brigade button-down white shirt. Topped by a blue Herrick Memorial Health Care Center jacket by Halloway. Model- Michael
Cavell.
MC: This is classic. The shirt and the jacket just give off an aura of vintage cool. And the model
is pretty fine. He’s one of those guys you can throw pretty much anything on and he’ll still look good,
and when you pick out something hip like this for him to wear, you can’t lose.
DR: This is such an 80s look. The blue bowler style jacket just sets off a simple outfit and makes
it glamorous and stunning. Someone go call Michael J. Fox.

Left: Aaron Carter T-shirt. Corona Extra Baseball cap. “Made In Poland Corduroy pants”. Model- Cody Elder.
MC: You know you used to listen to Aaron Carter—admit it! This is a very classy middle-school throwback for your
inner teenybopper.
DR: FUN, FUN, FUN!!! So dorky it becomes instantly cool. The corduroy pants are a good fall/winter look, and the
Corona Baseball cap says you are up for a party. This could be the surprise hit of the season.

Left: Arrow Brigade white long sleeve shirt with Cherokee burgundy sweater. Model- Michael Cavell.
MC: I can’t get enough of sweaters! Again, everyone else will be wearing sweaters when it gets cold and so
should you.
DR: This has to be the largest fashion coup de tat of the evening. Preppy yet smooth. The burgundy sweater
and white collared shirt on the outside. Come November this will be THE look at Davidson.

Left: Arnold Palmer pink/grey vintage-striped polo. Rhinestone pink-tint sunglasses, UV 400. Model- Darryl Ratcliff.
MC: Pink rocks! It’s so manly and macho. If you’re a guy and scared to wear pink, I think you’re
a girly-man!
DR: It is official: pink is the new white. The sunglasses take it to the next level. Jay-Z would definitely
approve. Can you say “Big Pimpin?”
