THE DAVIDSONIAN

_NEWS |

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2004

Alpha Phi Alpha introduces new brothers at Coming Out Show

By ZACH KAZIOR
Staff Writer

Alpha Phi Alpha’s Coming Out Show last Saturday was a huge success.

With over 500 people in attendance to watch the performance filled with greetings, poems, singing, and stepping, the new historically black fraternity presented the future of its chapter in five young men: Jacquin Gilchrist ’05, Thomas Johnson-Bean ’06, Amartey Nuno-Amarteifio ’05, Brendan Watkins ’07, and Kevin Wright ’07.

The event was meant to introduce Progeny 5, the second line of inductees to the Tau Omicron chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha to the campus.

The first line, G.E.N.E.S.I.S. 8, consisted of eight inductees and introduced the fraternity charter to the campus in November.

“I enjoyed the Alpha’s coming out show. I thought it was very intense because it revealed a special bonding within the organization and showed the ritualistic qualities that the fraternity possesses. These are things which have never been experienced by most non-Greek students from the other fraternities at Davidson,” said Jonathan Holman ’07.

The Coming Out Show was intended to introduce the new brothers of the Tau Omicron chapter to the world and to symbolize the hard work the young men have endured to get to where they are now.

“I’ve never been so proud of beginning something in my entire life. I say it that way because the celebration was not for me to end our process and come out to the campus, but to publicly begin doing the hard work of Alpha,” said Thomas Johnson-Bean ’06, a Political Science and Spanish double major. “I love my brothers and my fraternity so much more than I had ever imagined I could.”

Jacquin Gilchrist ’05 agreed.

“This experience has been the most challenging, rewarding, and beautiful of my life. Without a doubt in mind, I can say that my brothers have and always will be there for me and I will always be there for them. Saturday was the official beginning of a life-long commitment of doing the work of Alpha.

“For me, I have wanted to be a part of this great organization since I first heard about it and it is such a blessing to have attained my dream even through all I have been through,” Gilchrist said.

The inductees had to go through a rigorous process that is different from most other fraternities.

According to Alpha Phi Alpha President Vincent Benjamin, “Aspirants of our fraternity must be academically powerful, respected young men, who are involved on campus and reveal the potential for growth. As a chapter, we are very proud of these five young men, and we are confident they will represent The Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. and Davidson College extremely well.”

The boundaries of Alpha Phi Alpha exceed the realm of college life.

The work of the fraternity is a lifetime commitment. According to Public Relations chair Frankie Jones and Education Services chair Jason Scott, a great deal of the fraternity work is done after college, with graduate chapters throughout the country. The three graduating brothers, Vincent Benjamin, Jason Scott, and McKinley Glover, will all be joining graduate chapters upon graduation.

There is potential for a new line of Alpha men every semester. The journey into Alpha Phi Alpha begins by attending an awareness seminar that occurs each semester and is advertised to the entire campus.

Campus Police Blotter

4/14 Akers Dorm Property Damage
Officer responded to a call for damage to property at Akers dorm. Upon arrival, officer checked the ice and vending machine in the dorm and observed that same had been pulled out from the wall. There appeared to be no damage done to the machines or the connections behind the machines.

4/14 Akers Dorm Property Damage
Student reports that on April 8, they left their wallet between the seats of their vehicle. A search of the vehicle failed to locate the wallet. The wallet is a Quicksilver lady’s black wallet with a blue stripe around it. The wallet contained approximately $40.00 in cash as well as credit cards, a California driver’s license, pictures, and personal papers. The wallet is valued at $15.00.

4/15 Chambers Building Property Damage
Student reports that between 7 and 11 p.m., they discovered their green Cannondale M-400 damaged behind Chambers building. The bike was still secured to the bike rack, but the handle bars and fork were bent. Bike is valued at $150.00.

4/17 Duke Dorm Property Damage
Officer discovered ceiling tiles damaged at Duke dorm. The damage was at the first floor entrance. Reporting officer estimates the damage at $60.00.

4/18 Patterson Court Property Damage
Student reports that unknown person(s) entered Turner House through an unlocked window. Suspects consumed about $100.00 in food and left a mess.

4/18 Patterson Court Property Damage
Unknown person(s) damaged Pika House. The damage was done between the hours of 3:30 and 5:00 a.m. The rear door glass door was broken, ceiling tiles were pulled down, and window glass was broken, among other damage.