THE DAVIDSONIAN
Casie Hermes & Janell Milanes

PERSPECTIVES
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2004

Avoid the blind ideologies of partisanship
By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Staff Columnist

Bigotry. Prejudice. Intolerance. Propaganda. Blindness. Politics. Stop, right there. What do you think I am writing about? If you think
I mean the Republican party, get off your high horse, you are wrong. If you think it is the Democrats,
you are also wrong. My subject is Davidson College. Neither Republican nor Democrat are to blame, only the wonderful students
right here.

For those who think that one may be both an affiliated member of a political party and a student at
Davidson, it is my fervent hope that you will change your view. The idea of Young Democrats and Young Republicans
as campus organizations is slightly disturbing. In fact, the idea of anyone at all identifying him or herself as a
Democrat or Republican is disturbing.

Let us take the common assumption that the vast majority of people are stupid for the moment, and also assume
that at Davidson, one should strive, if not to be smarter than most, then at least to be less stupid
than most. Presumably, when one joins such an organization as the Young Democrats/Republicans, one is to be affiliated with them
for the remainder of one’s time at Davidson. And many freshmen join these clubs. So my question is, do any
eighteen-year-olds have the capacity to predict how they will feel in four years? Do any eighteen-year-olds know what Democratic and
Republican candidates will stand for in four years? Do any eighteen-year-olds know what is best for the country?

Folks, recall that Jefferson stood for the power of the states until he needed the executive branch to buy the
Louisiana Territory. Recall that Clinton stood for family values. Recall that Bush the younger stood for nonintervention. Recall that we
still do not really know what Kerry stands for. The bottom line is that, despite what we would like to
think, we as young adults know very little. What we do know is tainted enough by biased media and the
kind of blind party jingoism that leads to honest belief in the bumper sticker line “Friends Don’t Let Friends Vote
Republican/Democrat.”

My question remains. Do we have the capacity to choose the leader of the free world? To brave answering my
own question, I will offer what I hope to be the reason. I believe that the better nature in everyone
has a certain measure of faith in the young people of the nation. To see evidence of the ignorant immutability
of adults, one need look no further than the Ted Kennedy or the Strom Thurmond of politics today. I hope,
and apparently the nation hopes, that we young people are capable of being open to new and different ideas and
views. I hope that we can find the maturity to listen to all sides of the arguments and choose on
an individual basis what we find to be right and wrong, rather than blindly following a party banner and looking
no further than the labels of “Democrat” and “Republican.”

In disrespectful campaigns, we all lose
By J.C. BOYLE
Staff Columnist

Since the beginning of Bill Clinton’s presidency, partisans have found ways to sink political discourse into previously unfathomable depths. The
right-wing media heaped more vile accusations against Clinton than he could even begin to contemplate doing, and conspiracy theories against
George Bush occasionally violate civil discourse as well. The politicians have responded, and as politicians are wont to do, they
have responded wrongly.

The current administration has taken the unbendable dogma of extremist pamphlets and applied it to actual policy in an unmistakable
sign of the decline of rational thought. The uncompromising words have led to ruthless actions that frequently violate political tradition
and courtesy normally afforded to the opposing party. In recent years, Republicans in Colorado and Texas have gone against centuries
of tradition by engaging in redistricting battles even without a new census, deciding that an alteration in the legislative power
seesaw is enough to waste their constituents’ time re-deciding already settled issues. While it is by no means illegal, it
keeps focus away from matters of public policy and ultimately damages states in favor of establishing political advantage.

Democrats are also guilty, but since they lack the organization the Republicans have, they don’t do it nearly as well.
Less than an hour after President Bush’s convention speech was over, John Kerry made a speech against it, once again
going against years of tradition of one candidate enduring a "quiet period” during the other’s nomination. It was a doublyBad
move since it appears to have hurt Kerry more than it helped him. However, the most egregious and disturbing step
toward an irreconcilable partisan divide came from Dick Cheney last week, when he said that if voters “make the wrong
choice the danger is that we’ll get hit again.” He made the Bush Doctrine — either you’re with us or
you’re with the terrorists — applicable to American citizens on Election Day. There’s no real sense in tearing the statement
apart. It attacks itself by virtue of its vehemence and illogic: after all, who was in office when the last
terrorist attack occurred? The most repellent thing about it is the climate that produced it. Ann Coulter and Rush Limbaugh
are no longer rabid ideologues — they might as well be mouthpieces of the administration. Just when it looks like
it’s impossible for public discourse to plummet any farther, a new and deeper trench is opened. This is not only
bad for the politicians, it is bad for America.

By Evans McGowan
Staff Columnist

There I was, lying on my couch, wondering if I would die as my stomach twisted rocks: a rough start
to my second semester freshman year. Not all of us have needed an appendectomy, but we all have been or
will be in situations where we need immediate medical attention. Thankfully, most of us are insured.

Unfortunately, 45 million Americans (citizens, not immigrants) do not presently have insurance, and more than 70 million have gone without
health insurance for some time during the past two years. The uninsured do what all of us do in an
emergency; they go to the ER. By law, physicians must do a medical screening of all persons seeking aid, oftentimes
revealing insurance information. The physician must treat that person if his/her health is in jeopardy, regardless of insurance status. Since
the system is set up on a fee-based system, the physician has a larger incentive to treat a person who
has health insurance than someone without. Regardless, either the hospital or the government must foot the bill for the uninsured,
and the weight of millions of uninsured Americans is stretching our system to its limits: nurses and doctors are overworked,
hospital budgets are strained, and taxes and insurance costs rise.

Many people are uninsured because of the exorbitant costs of medical care. This despite the fact that 15% of our
GDP goes into healthcare costs; more than any other country. The problem is the outdated and wasteful healthcare system. Pulling
physical patient files can cost upwards of $25, whereas the equivalent electronic process at banks costs merely a penny. The
weight of millions of uninsured Americans is stretching our system to its limits: nurses and doctors are overworked, hospital budgets
are strained, and taxes and insurance costs rise. Gaps in communication between the primary care facilities and hospitals cause delays
in surgery and diagnosis, leading to millions of dollars wasted annually. Many unnecessary surgeries take place with too much attention
focused on expensive late-stage procedures rather than on lower-cost preventive care.

More than mere dollars are lost: 44,000 American lives (and possibly twice that number) are lost annually due to medical
error. Some argue the government must come in and regulate the industry. However, people often want a choice in doctors,
and managed healthcare providers only have a limited amount of physicians on their plan unless they obtain private health insurance.
In this regard, using healthcare is like using an ATM. If you stay within your own banking system, it’s free
of charge. But if you use other bank machines, fees incur and expenses mount. As people opt to choose physicians
outside of their healthcare provider, “transaction” fees skyrocket.

So what’s the solution? We need to update the antedated healthcare system by investing in information technology. Integration will lead
to increased efficiency in terms of care and cost. John Kerry has pledged $650 billion, funded by repealing the tax
cuts of those making over $200,000 a year, to update the system and provide better, more efficient healthcare at $1,000
less the premium per family. George Bush can only pledge $90 billion dollars because he wants the tax cuts made
permanent. Independent analysts estimate Kerry’s plan would cover 2/3 of the uninsured, while Bush would only cover 10%. As long
as we are willing to treat all persons in need, I can’t think of a better way to spend our
tax dollars than more affordable healthcare for all.
