8 __ THE DAVIDSONIAN RTS & ee

‘Hellboy’: Rasputin and Nazis fail to scare

By STEVE KALISKI
Senior Staff Writer

When a movie begins with hordes of Nazis hiring Grigori Rasputin (yes, of the mad Russian monk fame) to unlock an occult portal to Hell that will unleash a demon with the key to provoking Armageddon, you know you probably should’ve thought twice before buying that theater ticket. You also know that what you are about to see will undoubtedly be absurdly and unabashedly interesting. “Hellboy,” the latest bombastic attempt to bring Marvel’s most beloved comic books to the big screen, is nothing if not embarrassingly worthwhile.

Borrowing most noticeably from “Men in Black” and “X-Men,” “Hellboy” provides some very skilled summer-lite entertainment. While never reaching the same visual and kinetic heights of some of its superhero predecessors, it adequately passes the time with an intriguing plot and a charismatic title character. As Hellboy himself, Ron Perlman revisits the same nonchalant animal magnetism that gave him his big break in 1987’s famous “Beauty and the Beast” TV miniseries.

But back to that whole thing about Rasputin. The maniacal monk, played by Karel Roden (as if he had memorized “The Idiot’s Guide to Superhero Movie Villains” before the shoot), succeeds in opening the mystical portal long enough for an infant demon to sneak into our world. The plan goes awfully wrong for the silly Nazis, however, and the adorable Hellboy falls into the hands of the American good guys. Taken back to the mainland and raised by the mysterious Professor Bruttenholm (John Hurt) at the FBI Bureau of Paranormal Research and Defense, Hellboy develops into a nifty little crime fighter. Kept under a shroud of secrecy, the FBI enlists his mighty services only when the opposition gets otherworldly.

Since one of the first things we all learned about Russian history was that after poison, gunshots, and drownings, Grigori Rasputin still refused to die, director Guillermo del Toro doesn’t waste time in rousing this vicious adversary from the dead. Still determined to capture Hellboy and open the portal to the dark kingdom, the great showdown between good and evil begins.

But oh, there’s so much more to this movie than just that. While saving the world from Armageddon is a relatively consuming task, Hellboy still finds time to search for himself amidst the social ruins of American society. He files down his horns to look more like a real man. He throws back a six-pack of Bud Lights on a park bench and dreams about the time in which his freakishly pyrotechnic dream girl (Selma Blair) will escape from the insane asylum and elope with him.

In all seriousness, however, the greatest strength of “Hellboy” is its reverent fidelity to the comic book spirit. The most compelling superheroes have always been the most vulnerable, and Hollywood has done a splendid job recently in capturing this sentiment. Hellboy joins the sadly persecuted X-Men, the angsty and hormonal Peter Parker, and the emotionally ravaged Hulk as some of the most engaging superheroes with otherwise serious personal issues. Del Toro briskly and deftly navigates his way through the playful action, but Perlman deserves the most credit for separating this movie from the rest of the crop. The next morning, you’ll probably remember scenes of Hellboy sharing girl problems.With a thirteen-year-old more than the monumental showdowns between Nazis, immortal Russians, and a demon with a heart of gold.

Bilingual lecture exemplifies cultural misunderstanding

By Jessica STRAUS
Staff Writer

Last Friday night, Cuban-American author Roberto G. Fernandez discussed his writing and personal experiences. Professor Mary Vasquez, Professor Carlos Rivera, and Professor Hernandez-Chiroldes made his visit to the Davidson community possible.

Fernandez’s writing is influenced by his Cuban-American heritage. He calls himself a “bicultural writer” who is “working at a bicultural moment.” Rather than a “translation writer,” Fernandez writes in English and intermingles Spanish. The bilingualism of his work allows him greater faculty with his words because he can draw on two languages. Fernandez hopes to target a bilingual audience. His intended audience is very clear in his book “Raining Backwards.” His book explores the “Cuban Diaspora” through an assortment of quirky, clever characters and by specifically addressing Cuban-Americans living in Miami. Despite the importance of the characters, the true protagonist is the Miami Cuban culture, which can only be truly understood by those who possess the “database,” or the intimate familiarity with Miami-Cuban culture. Fernandez creates an insider space—a nod to his fellow Cuban-Americans—while also distancing the rest of the American population. Alternatively, by focusing on this specific community, he raises its importance in the mainstream American social conscience. He deftly creates this juxtaposition of alienation and inclusion in his novel.

As a speaker, I wish that he could have communicated the same emotional depth to his live audience. Fernandez spoke to a group of about 40 Davidson College and community members. Fernandez began speaking in English. He spoke about the “Cuban Diaspora” (an apt adaptation of a term usually used in conjunction with the Jewish exile from Babylon and subsequent scattered settlement of the area around Palestine). The Cuban Diaspora is a central exploration point for Fernandez. He communicated this exploration with the audience by reading excerpts from “Raining Backwards.” This is when Fernandez may have lost some of his audience. He began reading without providing the necessary background context for his excerpts. His most interesting readings were parts where he had translated Spanish idioms into English, which would have been incredibly funny to someone familiar with Spanish, English, and his book.

The second part of his talk was spoken entirely in Spanish. In his effort to access his bilingual audience, his monolingual audience was left wondering whether they should try to decipher some meaning from his intonation. It is unfortunate that so much of what Fernandez had to say was lost in the abyss of miscommunication. Speakers and writers should make it a priority to access their audience rather than expect the audience to wholly understand. The ability to engage with and listen to any audience is essential in gaining perspective and affecting change. Fernandez and his Friday night audience may have missed an important opportunity to become involved in a reciprocal conversation. In every encounter between a writer and his audience, the chance for a vital exchange exists, that allows both parties to reformulate things that were previously unquestioned.

Within his writing, Fernandez does revisit those unquestioned things. His wordplay with English and Spanish translations comments on how easily the two cultures can misunderstand each other. It is important for Fernandez to try and actively fix this lack of communication that he sees so clearly.