WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2004

The Police Department and Campus Police said there are no signs of forced entry in the recent robberies on Armour
Street and the Senior Apartments.

Vacation robberies damper New Year

Leslie HEMPSON
Senior Staff Writer

Two off-campus houses on Armour Street belonging to Davidson students and three Senior Apartments were robbed sometime over Winter Break.
According to Sgt. David Howie of the Davidson Police Department, there are no official suspects in the Armour Street incident.

Tim Robertson ’04, one of the off-campus robbery victims, said the items stolen from his house included a PlayStation, DVDs,
and televisions. Howie said that at least two computers had been stolen from the homes, as well. Although a passer-by
noticed on Jan. 8 that the backdoor of Robertson’s house had been kicked in, the robberies could have occurred any
time over the break. Howie said since the students were away for several weeks, it was difficult to determine when
the burglaries took place.

When asked if there had been other break-ins in the Armour Street area, Howie replied, “I can’t think of anything
recent, but I think [Armour Street] kind of is a concern to us. I guess just the fact that you’ve
got students, and I’m not saying it’s just students, coming and going with breaks and whatnot makes them a prime
target.” Howie also mentioned that the Police Department planned to monitor Armour Street more strictly when students leave on future
vacations. He said, “Armour would be a good place for us to do [patrols] on a regular basis when students
are on a break. It would be good on our part to take the ball and run with it.”

Fountain Walker, Director of Public Safety, said students informed him on Jan. 12 and 13 that DVDs, CDs, and other
items had been stolen from their apartments. Since there was no sign that any of the apartments had been forced
open, Walker and his staff have focused their investigation on determining who might have had key or Cat Card access
to the residences. Walker explained, “The officers here have interviewed staff from different departments that may have gone [into the
apartments]. We’ve interviewed the contractors that were on campus at the time, and I’m pretty sure I have a good
account and an idea of who may have keys and may have card access.”

While Walker noted he had no leads, he expressed some confidence he had been able to narrow down the pool
of suspects. “I guess I feel comfortable in saying that I don’t feel like [the robber] was a student on
break or anything like that, nor do I feel like it was a staff member.” The robberies took place in
Hart and F.

Howie said students who planned to be away from their off-campus homes for an extended period of time could request
the Police Department set up a zone check for their residence. When citizens request a zone check, “We come out
[four times a day], check the residence, and make sure no windows or doors are standing open,” explained Howie. Walker
agreed with Howie’s assessment, saying, “I would definitely put the house on zone check because the departments have to check
them at least [twice a day]. In my policing career, there’s only been one or two situations where a house
was actually broken into and it was on our zone check list. Not saying that it can’t happen, but it’s
a rarity.” Walker also mentioned students should leave...a light on and move valuable objects away from windows when they leave
school for a vacation.

College housing unable to cope with returning students
AMANDA STEPHENS
Senior Staff Writer

As students return to Davidson for the spring semester, the Residence Life Office is challenged to accommodate an unusually large
number of students. The housing situation has been further strained by the return of many juniors from abroad. The shortage
of space has forced some of these returning students into senior apartments and many others off-campus.

The number of students living on-campus this semester led to the housing crunch. Johnson-Bean ’06 said, “Not having a lounge
has made the hall far less social, because there is a definite amount of community building that occurs within a
hall lounge.” Sophomore Jordyn Griffin echoed a similar sentiment. “I love the girls living in the room, and it is
nice to have them on the hall, but it is hard not having a lounge because you lose the quiet
place to study or watch TV.”

RLO has also expanded its off-campus housing in an effort to provide more space. Five more college-owned off-campus houses are
occupied by students this semester, making a total of 21 off-campus houses. Traditionally rented to faculty, these 5 houses are
being used to accommodate the 135 students who have returned from abroad. Since more women than men studied abroad last
semester, it has been particularly difficult to find housing for females.

Because Davidson is currently renovating existing buildings, the college has no immediate plans to build any new dormitories. Efforts to
prevent housing shortages in the future will come from the Admissions Office. According to Associate Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano,
“The admissions office plans to be especially selective in choosing the Class of 2008.”

Further housing complications have arisen from students who had planned to go abroad in the spring and changed their plans
last minute as well as from students who had expressed interest in living off-campus but were unable to find housing.
In accordance with Davidson’s guaranteed housing policy, the Residence Life Office has tried hard to accommodate the overflow of students.
Nine student lounges in various dorm buildings up the hill have been converted into dormitory rooms. While this has provided
extra space, many students feel that not having a lounge detracts from the social life of the hall. A resident
advisor in Cannon, Thomas Johnson-Bean ’06 said, “Not having a lounge has made the hall far less social, because there
is a definite amount of community building that occurs within a hall lounge.”

SUNDRIES: a BAR
Lake Norman - Harborside
Voted “Best Waterfront Restaurant on Lake Norman”

STSTRAVEL.COM

Every Monday
1/2 Price Appetizers (dine-in only)

Every Tuesday
1/2 Price Wings
Buffalo, Barbalo, Barbeque (dine-in only)

Every Wednesday
Burger Madness
All Burgers: $4.95 (dine-in only)

KARAOKE NIGHT EVERY THURSDAY
10 UNTIL CLOSING
18665 Harborside Dr. - (704) 896-9013
Go W. on Catawba to Harborside Dr. Follow to end
