4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004

Seniors tie the knot in College’s newest trend

By Sami JARRAH
Staff Writer

For several years, students have berated Davidson’s lackluster dating scene.

Some students speculate that the problem is the hefty workload. Others point out the inability to see how romance and academic success can combine. The smallness of the campus is often cited as well.

Recently, however, romance has taken hold of several students, particularly those members of the senior class.

This school year, over a dozen members of the Class of 2004 have become engaged. Most of the engagements are to current Davidson students, while a few are to Davidson alumni or people outside of the college community.

This bit of news should not be surprising considering the fact that close to 10% of Davidson alumni are married to other Davidsonians, according to the Alumni Office.

Take the story of Betsy Pinchak ’04 and Ryan Gentzler ’04. On September 1, 2003, Gentzler invited Pinchak on a walk, a welcomed respite from the chaotic apartment and long night of studying ahead. As they walked onto the campus golf course, Gentzler began dancing with Pinchak on the green by the third hole. When Gentzler noticed the “ball” in the hole, he knelt down to retrieve a ring. The rest is history.

Two of Pinchak’s suitemates in Hart Residence Hall are also engaged to be married and plan to wed this summer. Michelle Hulme ’04 is engaged to Bobby Lippert ’04, and Alison Heck ’04 is engaged to David Dupee ’04.

Lippert proposed to Hulme on the balcony of Lingle Chapel, where he met her during Thursday night worship services in the fall of their sophomore year. The couple will marry in Houston on June 26.

The third roommate, Alison Heck ’04, is engaged to David Dupee ’04. While Heck and Dupee have known each other since childhood, they both decided separately to attend Davidson their senior year of high school.

After dating at Davidson for three years, Dupee decided to ask Heck’s father for his blessing in their marriage. He then proposed to Heck at his family’s mountain cabin in Kentucky. On the deck overlooking the snowy mountains, David revealed a lit-up sign reading, “Marry Me Alison.” A stunned and shivering Heck said yes.

The love is not confined to Hart. Brad Bridges ’04 recently proposed to Lindsey Beebe, a former Davidson College student who now attends Trinity University.

Bridges asked the big question in a big place: underneath the arch in St. Louis. The couple plans to get married this summer and live in Dallas afterward.

The love doesn’t stop there. Erin Berry ’04 became engaged to Mike Anderson ’02 last April. Anderson proposed in Duke Gardens in Raleigh.

Berry was amazed at how quickly the campus knew of her engagement.

She said, “Within about three days, I felt like the entire school knew, which is what happens on a campus this small.”

Clearly, something has taken over the students of ’04, and even they are not quite sure how they got so lucky.

Heck said it best: “So that’s our story, take it or leave it. We'll take it.”

Your Dream: “I want to become a doctor.”

Your Reality: “I don’t have the required courses for medical school.”

The Johns Hopkins Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program prepares college graduates with strong academic records to apply to the best medical schools by giving them the personal attention, the necessary science and math courses, and one-to-one academic advising.

If you or someone you know wants to pursue a career as a doctor, apply by March 1.

For more information, visit www.jhu.edu/postbac or call 410-516-7748.

JOHNS HOPKINS
Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program

Take photos. Get money.

Apply for photo positions with the Davidsonian. Contact Dorset at [contact information].