8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

TODAY'S NEWS

Magazine hid in shirt on way to bathroom
Ad-Aware run on girl’s computer; over 500 pieces of spyware found
Freshman has boyfriend | SEE PAGE 19
Commons knives just not cutting it | SEE PAGE 10
Girl gets nose ring | SEE PAGE 26
Star wide receiver deemed “cocky” | SEE PAGE 12

HUMOR ORTA UBERTAS — WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2004

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

Have an educational first night down! September 9, 2004

JSU: Too much diversity

It seems that the Davidson College Administration’s focus on increasing the College’s diversity has had some unexpected byproducts. For the loyal members of Davidson College’s Jewish Student Union, the growing number of Jewish students on campus has proven to have fairly high costs.

“I just can’t believe it. We have to take two cars to synagogue now for the High Holidays,” said JSU head Emily Cohen ‘05. “That stupid freshman makes it six people. I say double buckle but everyone else wanted to take another car. I really don’t want to use an SUV.”

Other JSU members tend to agree. As sophomore Brett Steinthal ‘07 explained, “This car problem is only the tip of the iceberg. Even in my two years here, I’ve been able to see changes. This past year, I’ve only been able to explain the laws of kosher one or two times. I guess my true worry is that the next step will be having my mom start asking why I’m not going out with a ‘nice Jewish girl’ because there are so many here.”

Gentiles are also seeing changes in the culture of the school. “Sometimes I feel like I’m in New York or something,” explained junior Nicholas Livingford ‘06, “During that one holiday, they had those Jewish Crackers in the Union for the whole week.”

Senior Christina Lee Nottingham ‘05 also noticed differences in the way classes are run. “It used to go without saying that everyone in a class was Christian. Now, you always have to explain things about the Bible and have to incorporate

Davidson Students are the cause of Davidson grade deflation

A recent independent study commissioned by the Davidson College Committee on Instruction has debunked the widespread myth of grade deflation at Davidson. The study concluded that the report of grade deflation among Davidson students is actually caused by the Davidson students’ own academic deficiencies.

“After analyzing the level of work done at Davidson, the researchers found that the breadth and the difficulty of the academic coursework at Davidson is actually inferior to the coursework found at all eight Ivy League universities, with the exception of Brown, as well as many of Davidson’s peer liberal arts colleges,” said Robert Clark of the educational research firm of Southeast Education Associates. “Moreover,” Clark continued, “through advanced deduction techniques we concluded that if the top 95% of the class of 2006 at Harvard, for example, went to Davidson they would have a cumulative GPA of 3.71, thus making Davidson grade inflated.”

Some students and professors disagree with the study while others are not surprised. “If this is true, then why do most graduate schools add point six to Davidson graduates’ GPA? I know that’s true, my tour guide told me,” said Kathleen Young ‘05.

English professor Dr. Cecil Jones feels vindicated by the study, “Finally! It looks like the old ‘we're at Davidson’ excuse just isn’t going to fly. I’ve had enough of students who hand in lousy papers and then when they get back a bad grade, just blame it on Davidson grade deflation. This place really isn’t the hotbed of intellectualism that people say it is.”

Alex Marks ‘07 was worried about the study. “Keep this one under wraps. Well at least don’t tell my parents,” said Marks before heading down to PiKA on a Tuesday night.

Humor Section

ALSO CONTRIBUTING THIS WEEK
Jeff Yeakel - Nathan Bradshaw
Bill Sommers - Jordie Poncy
Robbie Reynolds

Students with story suggestions or interested in writing should contact the editor at brparets@davidson.edu

Note: If you've been living in a cave for the past six months, then you should know that the Yow! is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.all these different viewpoints. Plus, when I advertise my “I’m sure that in my future professional life, I will need to know how to interact with the Jews” club, I have to cut down on the ‘Jesus’ references. But, I do see some positives, as I’m sure that in my future professional life I will need to know how to interact with the Jews.”

Some on campus believe that there could be more Jewish students, and that the College has not gone far enough in making them feel welcome. Describes JSU member Eli Friedman ‘06, “Come on! I mean, they served Challah in Vail Commons during Passover [a Jewish holiday in which it is forbidden to eat leavened bread]. They still don’t allow a Jew to be a trustee. They want us here, but they don’t want us to interfere with their ‘Christian Tradition.’”

The Administration takes a more charitable view of the state of affairs. According to admissions counselor Charles Montgomery, “Even though we still have a long way to go, we have made some tremendous strides. The numbers of Jewish students have risen exponentially, and with it has come increased discussion in classes and alternative outlooks which significantly enrich the classic Davidson students’ educations. Plus, this whole discussion of not having enough room in one car to go to Yom Kippur services is absolutely ridiculous. They should only need one car this year as Yom Kippur happens to fall on the same weekend as homecoming.”

Cohen still believes that there is a problem and has a response, “I just think Davidson College should strive to keep my people out like it used to five years ago. I chose to go to this school for a reason. If I wanted more of my type, I would have gone to Duke.”

We need writers like Kathy Lee needs Regis. You might have 99 problems, but not writing for the Yowl shouldn’t be one. Contact brparets@davidson.edu with your ideas.

The Davidsonian

Caterpillar convention turns ugly

Tragedy struck last week at Davidson College after the 19th Annual Convention of Yellow Gutted Caterpillars ended in chaos. For cost reasons, the caterpillars again selected Davidson as its location for the fall even though in the past, the conventions have ended nastily, for both Davidson College students who resented the deluge of caterpillars, as well as the caterpillars themselves who found thousands of their brethren crushed by careless students.

While members of the college administration were wary of again having such a volatile crowd of caterpillars wandering around the campus at all hours of the night, the convention was approved, as it would bring in a large influx of funds sorely needed to cover the costs of the soccer field renovations. So, after consulting campus security and determining appropriate safety measures for this event, the college went ahead with the plan to host the convention.

The caterpillars maintained a tolerable noise level throughout the first several days. Though some freshmen’s parents were perturbed by the presence of so many caterpillars as they went with their children to orientation, student/caterpillar interaction was largely calm and cordial. Over the weekend, however, a large group of caterpillars known as the “Leaf Eaters” was refused entrance to a local bar. Owner Tom Ackerson later explained, “I was called out of my office around nine or ten o’clock. They were intoxicated already.” The leader of the group persisted and eventually overpowered Ackerson at the door, forcing his way to the bar. When the bartender refused to serve him, a full brawl broke out.

From there, bad went to worse. The police recorded twelve reports of women being harassed by caterpillars, and some thirty men were injured in the pandemonium that ensued. While this alone would have been an unpleasant incident, it later turned into a major catastrophe. Outraged at the treatment of their fellow invertebrates, the entire convention decided to carouse and vandalize Davidson’s campus. With the aid of Davidson’s Orientation Team and select volunteers, the campus police were able to squash some five hundred caterpillars before the freshmen knew of the revolt, thus preventing campus-wide panic.

The Vail Commons Ice Cream Report