The Davidsonian
DAVIDSON COLLEGE @ "THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY" @ THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2004
First Class U.S. Postage Paid Permit #1 Davidson, NC
VOLUME 96, NUMBER 9

Alumni Relations: a growing job
By Kate Gillespie
Senior Staff Writer

In 1900, the average American lived to be 45 years old. Today life expectancy has soared to 85 years, producing
an unexpected result for the Davidson College administration: more work for the Office of Alumni Relations.

Director of Alumni Relations Matt Merrell describes the office as “a student of the study of demographics.”

“Unlike any time in the history of man, you now have multiple generations that make up America,” Merrell said. “The
Alumni Office reflects that. We’ve taken an approach of studying demographics to determine who our alumni are.”

Davidson currently has just under 19,500 alumni, 60 percent of whom have graduated since 1980. The Alumni Office considers the
differing needs and demands of each generation when sending out communications and planning reunion events.

“We know that our youngest alumni are an age group for whom technology is important,” Merrell said. “Increasingly the Alumni
Office is reaching out to them through a web presence and electronic invitations. They are more responsive to those than
by mail.”

Statistics about alumni are gathered through surveys that the Alumni Office sends to the classes every five years when they
hold their reunions.

see Alumni, page 5

Taylor Ansley ’07 and Dr. Pat Sellers color states red and blue as state election results come in.

Students crowd Union to watch election
By Davin Crow
Editor-in-Chief

Tuesday night, Democrats and Republicans alike crowded into the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room to watch the results of the
2004 election. By the time the room closed down at 1 a.m. the nation was still without a definite winner
as the Kerry Campaign, down significantly in Electoral College votes, refused to concede the election until every vote had been
counted in the key swing state of Ohio.

It was not until late Wednesday morning that Senator Kerry called President Bush to formally concede the election after the
Kerry Campaign concluded that there was no mathematical way that they could win Ohio.

For many of the Davidson students who were watching Tuesday night, the final outcome was somewhat of a shock. Taylor
Ansley ’07, Co-President of the Young Democrats, said after the election, “I was surprised. I honestly believed Kerry would win.”

However, for other students the results were just as they expected. Jack Hubbard ’06, Vice President of the College Republicans,
said he was not surprised how the results unfolded. “While the results may have been slow, we had a winner
within 24 hours of the last polls closing. This was a clear and decisive win for the President and conservatives
in this country,” said Hubbard.

Professor of Political Science Dr. Pat Sellers, who organized the event in the 900 Room, was also not entirely surprised
by the final outcome. “In the short term I was surprised

see Election, page 3

Ada Jenkins Center lets students share talents
By Jackie McKeon
Senior Staff Writer

The Ada Jenkins Center of Davidson functions as a nonprofit organization that provides health, education, and other necessary services to
members of the community. The Ada Jenkins Center provides Davidson students with numerous outlets to serve the local community and
to share their talents. Students volunteer in various capacities, such as tutoring for the After School Program, providing translation services
for the Free Clinic of Our Towns, and

Our Black Eyed Peas Preview
A&L, PAGE 6

performing light office duties. “The"Students are represented throughout all of our programming and, in some cases, are key leaders in
programs such as the After School Program and the Free Medical Clinic,” said Ada Jenkins executive director Bill Johnson. The
After School Program is in session Monday through Friday and places student volunteers with elementary school students from low-income families.
Volunteers act as mentors and tutors for the youths by assisting them with their homework and providing them with an
overall positive example. “The student volunteers have a tremendous impact on the children and, in turn, the program. Because the
children admire the volunteers so much, the children want to get to know them, to develop relationships with the volunteers,
and to be like the volunteers,” said After School Program director Diane Means. Bonner Scholars are large contributors to the
After School Program. “The Bonner Scholarship was founded with the intention that all Bonners would work with children."

See Ada, page 5

Survey shows students leaned toward Kerry
By Liz Barry
Senior Staff Writer

Despite Davidson’s conservative reputation, student voters leaned toward Senator John Kerry by 23 percentage points in Tuesday’s presidential election, according
to a recent student survey. Survey results indicated that 58 percent of students intended to vote for Kerry, 35 percent
for President George W. Bush, and seven percent were still undecided. Party registration revealed a smaller disparity, with 54 percent
registered as Democrat, 41 percent Republican, and 5 percent Independent. Over the past four years, survey results indicate a small
but consistent Democratic lean on campus, with students supporting the Democratic Party by just over ten percentage points each year.

Davidson’s high level of political diversity does not surprise many members of the Davidson community. Trey Skinner ’07, secretary of
College Republicans, said it is natural for college students to be generally more liberal than other age groups, and is
therefore not surprised by the survey results. “Young people are usually more liberal,” he said. “They need to live in
the world a little while until some of them can sober up. Of course, I’m being facetious, but that does
seem to be the trend.”

How Davidson students vote — Chris Burks ’07, co-president of Young Democrats, said he attributes high levels of Democratic support
among college students to negative perceptions toward the Republican Party. “In college, students generally are able to begin to form
political opinions separate from their parents,” he said. “College students are realizing that John Kerry and the Democratic Party have
a positive plan for the future of our country while many Republicans are still stuck in the divisive politics of
the past.”

When considering social issues, young people tend to support liberal policies that minimize the role of rules and regulations, said
Mary Thornberry, department chair and professor of Political Science. At Davidson, students’ active involvement in community service may have contributed
to their increased support for certain liberal ideals. “Through social service work, like tutoring at Ada Jenkins, many students see
the genuine disadvantage that some people run into across the country and that may open students to a certain kind
of liberalism,” Thornberry said. “They may see the role of someone’s duty, which may or may not be the government’s,
to care for the poor.” However, it is difficult to predict whether today’s young people will continue their liberal tendencies
in future decades.

See Survey, page 4

NEWS: Guests get a feel for ROTC life SEE PAGE 2
Post-election analysis and wrap-up PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 11
Bobcats: NBA returns to Charlotte SPORTS, PAGE 14
