16 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2005

Charleston heartache: 12-match streak ends

By ERIK SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

After starting last week with consecutive 7-0 victories over Appalachian State and Campbell, the 53rd-ranked Davidson women’s tennis team walked onto the court on Sunday against College of Charleston boasting a 12-match winning streak. In order to continue the winning streak, the women would have to break another streak: entering Sunday’s match, the Wildcats were winless against the Cougars in 19 meetings. Number 20 went right down to the wire.

Davidson gained the upper hand in the match early on, winning the doubles point with victories at positions two and three. Meggie Patterson ’05 and Kelsey Linville ’08 continued their dominance at the second slot, winning their 13th straight match by an 8-2 margin. Sarah Borkowski ’05 and Kim Whelan ’08 were equally impressive at number three, also overwhelming their opponents 8-2. Despite a loss by Kelly and Meghan Fillnow ’05 at the top position, Davidson earned the doubles point and the early 1-0 lead.

The day was far from over, though, as the singles matches stretched late into the afternoon, with the victory not far from the Wildcats’ grasp in their last home match of the year. Only one of the six matches concluded in two sets, as Linville prevailed 6-3, 7-6 (5) at the number three singles position to stretch the Wildcats’ lead to 2-0. Linville, the SoCon player of the week entering the match, remained undefeated in conference action with the win.

Davidson has been unstoppable on the doubles court but vulnerable in singles play. Kate Levitt ’07 managed a three-set victory at number five for Davidson, but losses by Meghan Fillnow and Whelan left the ’Cats clinging to a narrow 3-2 lead. Only Davidson’s top two singles players, senior captains Kelly Fillnow and Patterson remained on the court, and just one needed to win to earn the victory for the team. Fillnow took the first set in her match but could not maintain the momentum in the following sets, ultimately falling 4-6, 6-3, 6-4. Patterson took a different path in her match, dropping a tight, hard-fought battle of a first set in a tiebreaker, then rallying for an easy win in the second set. The final set was just as tight as the first, but Patterson’s opponent managed to squeeze out a 7-6, 1-6, 6-4 victory to clinch the match for Charleston.

“It was a tough match that went down to the wire,” said assistant coach Avi Kigel. “We didn’t catch any breaks; it just didn’t go our way. But I’m proud of the girls, they gave 100 percent.”

Overall, the day did not go as planned for the ’Cats, who earlier seemed well on their way to an undefeated conference season. After the loss to Charleston on Senior Day, the ’Cats have only three matches left in the regular season, the most difficult of which comes against Furman in the regular season finale next week. Now ranked 60 in the nation, the team is still in the hunt for the conference championship to be decided in several weeks.

“There are still a couple of things we need to work on over the next few weeks,” said Kigel, “but we’ll be ready for the SoCon tournament.”

By PIERCE TRUMBO
Staff Writer

With four matches in six days, the men’s team experienced a bit of everything in the past week—one win, twolosses, and one postponement. On March 29, Davidson suffered a tough home loss to UAB. The ’Cats did win two of three doubles bouts, but they captured only one of six singles matches to fall 2-5 overall in the match. The tandem of Donald Miles ’05 and Russ Burns ’05, playing at the number one doubles position, scored an 8-6 victory, and Flaviu Simihaian ’08 and Joe Cheaney ’06 also won their match at the number three doubles position, 8-5. In singles competition, only Jay Chitty ’07 at number six could manage a victory, as he won 6-1, 6-3. All other singles matches but one were two-set sweeps by UAB.

Against Northern Colorado on April 1, the ’Cats rebounded to record an easy home victory, 7-0. The team won every match on the day and didn’t lose a single set. Burns and Miles won their doubles match 8-3, as did Daniel Bermeo ’06 and Bolton at the number two doubles position. Simihaian and Cheaney won their match 8-2, and Miles, Simihaian, Bolton, Bermeo, Burns, and Chitty all won their singles matches in easy fashion. Bolton did not even allow his opponent to score a point, winning the match 6-0, 6-0.

The following day the ’Cats faced SoCon foe College of Charleston, marking the end of a five-match homestand. Davidson again captured two of three doubles matches but again won only one of six singles contests to lose 2-5.

No doubles troubles for the men

Miles acknowledged the disparity between singles and doubles, saying, “We’ve been playing really solid doubles lately. I think we’ve won the doubles point in five straight matches.” Bermeo and Bolton won their doubles match 8-1, and Cheaney and Simihaian won yet again, 8-4, but Bermeo was the only player to win a singles match. After dropping the first set 4-6, Bermeo fought back to win the second and third sets 6-1 and 6-4 to secure the win. Simihaian and Burns also took their opponents to three sets, but both suffered narrow losses, including a tie-break loss for Simihaian. “The Charleston match could have gone either way,” said Miles. “Four of the singles matches went to the deciding set, but unfortunately only Bermeo was able to pull off a win.” The ’Cats are now 3-3 in conference play and 10-9 overall, and their next match is April 8 at home against Boston College.

Player of the Week
Jay Heafner ‘06 Baseball
Hometown: Lincolnton, North Carolina
Major: Political Science

Heafner was named SoCon Player of the Week after he hit .714 (10-14) with four doubles, a homer, five walks, five runs, and seven RBI. Heafner is tearing up the ball on a seven-game hitting streak, and he is currently second in SoCon in batting average (.458), OBP (.535), and hits (49).

Play of the Week
Lindsay Frank’s (’05) goal frenzy

Senior lacrosse player Lindsay Frank scored a goal just 43 seconds into the game against Canisius College. She didn’t get tired of finding the back of the net. Frank followed the goal with another about three minutes later, two more before the break, and two in the second half. On the day she scored six goals to lead the Wildcats to a 20-10 victory.