THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES

A road to hypocrisy in Washington

In the game of politics, perception tends to be more important than reality. Politicians act to be seen and heard by certain people in a certain way—it doesn’t matter if that perception is in any way accurate as long as it is the image they want people to see. This might be good for the politicians, but it tends to be bad for the well-being of Americans.

Case in point is the $286.5 billion transportation bill passed by Congress this month, a truly jaw-dropping act of excess and an insult to American taxpayers, even by this Congress’s already depressingly low standards for spending. The reality here is that this highway bill, as it is oddly called even though much of the money is spent on projects irrelevant to highways such as bike paths and museums, shows that the public images put forth by our political parties are deceiving and hypocritical.

Let’s take a look at how the parties want us to believe they behave, and contrast that picture with how they actually behave as revealed by the highway bill.

Republicans like to portray themselves as the party of responsibility. They don’t want to redistribute money from hard-working Americans to decadent welfare queens because that encourages irresponsibility. Instead, they say they want to promote smaller government and a flourishing free market, in order to allow people to lift themselves up by their bootstraps. But in reality, the Republicans are rather content with redistribution, just as long as the money is being redistributed to the people they want to reward. This sellout to special interests can be seen in the ludicrous number of pork barrel projects in this year’s highway bill.

Pork barrel spending is money that members of Congress use to benefit local constituents, even though this money comes out of the coffers paid by all taxpayers, not just the select few who benefit. The 1991 highway bill had about 500 such projects at a cost of $6 billion. The next major highway bill in 1998 had 2,000 pork barrel earmarks, costing $9 billion. This is all chump change compared to the latest boondoggle. The 2005 bill has over 6,000 earmarks, and at a cost of $24 billion. There’s no doubt that the vast majority of these projects are not necessary improvements to transportation infrastructure, but wasteful throwaways to narrow interests. Some of the most egregious examples from the bill include $100,000 for a single traffic light in California, $1 million for a transportation museum in Chicago, and $230 million for a bridge in Alaska that serves an island of 50 inhabitants. All of this was approved by a vast majority of the supposedly “small government” party. Only four Republicans in the Senate and eight in the House voted against the bill.

But it’s no great revelation for many of us that the Republicans are hypocrites. The Democrats have to be better, right? After all, they’re the party who stands up for the least fortunate among us. They want to empower the dispossessed and transfer the wealth away from the economic elites of society and back to those who never had a fair chance. At least, that’s what Democrats want us to believe. The highway bill clearly violates these humanitarian principles. As is the nature of pork barrel spending, the winners of the transportation projects are wealthy and influential special interests rather than the needy. For example, included in the bill’s earmarks was $1 million for landscaping at Cedar-Sinai Medical Center in Beverly Hills, one of the richest and most distinguished hospitals in the world. So surely no Democrat could support this kind of welfare for the rich? Quite the opposite. The Democrats were even more unified in their support for this pork fest than the Republicans. Not one Democratic senator or congressman voted against the bill.

The highway bill is a particularly shameful reminder of the extent to which elected officials sacrifice principles, ideology, and the interests of an overwhelming number of their constituents for their own self-interest. Of course, many Americans have already come to expect this from politicians. But those who haven’t learned this lesson should be reminded that the perceptions which shape the political landscape—that Republicans are for small government, or that Democrats look out for the poor—often have no basis in reality.

The highway bill takes the nation down the wrong road.

Matt Bandyk is a senior political science major from Tampa, Fl., and co-editor of the Perspectives section. Contact him at mabandyk@davidson.edu.

Orientation a disorienting experience

“Work hard, play hard.” Apparently, this has been Davidson College’s mantra for more than a long time. As the child of an alumnus, I grew up hearing about all of the playing my father did at this school. “But Dad,” I would ask, “How did you manage to have so much fun with so much work?” The resulting answer seemed quite obvious: time management skills.

Flash forward to freshman move-in day. Four hundred and sixty scared high school graduates begin to realize that they will no longer be the big fish on campus. They are at the bottom of the totem pole now. “At least,” they think, “I am now on my own, and Orientation will not only let me meet new people, but also teach me some college survival skills.” Wrong.

I will allow that at first, orientation seemed necessary. There were, of course, the typical welcoming speeches from just about every Dean on campus. We were herded into “small groups” of about 120 in order to hear the obligatory lectures on campus security, spiritual life, technology, and the “traditions” of Davidson. In addition, there was a lovely convocation and mandatory hall meetings where we were told that our halls would be our support networks. SomewhereIn between name games and discussions about alcohol policies, I started to realize that I had not yet had a chance to breathe. For that matter, I had not even had time to finish unpacking my dorm room. If only I had some time management skills... The next day, we were herded into the Duke Performance Hall yet again, this time for a panel on academics at Davidson. Once more, the importance of time management was stressed and was still being emphasized at the approximate time that we were all sent rushing off to meet our academic advisors. Sure, we could change our schedule. If we could find the time. A Farewell Picnic later, we were on our own. Real college students. Wow. Until, that is, we were sent off to the Freshmen Olympics. And to the Swim Test. And to the Ice Cream Social at the Union. Did I mention getting up at nine in the morning to walk 6.2 miles for the CROP walk? I fully understand and respect the fact that Davidson is based on a community of honor and service, but service should come from inside, not as a mandatory requirement. Sure, the rest of the weekend was filled with other important activities. There was a day at Lake Campus, as well as an activities fair and a poster sale. There was the all-important Honor Code ceremony and yet another mixer at the Union. All of this could have been fit into one or two filled days before classes, not drawn out over almost a week. Overall, we played hard. But did we learn anything about time management at “Camp Davidson?” Did we learn how to plan out our workload or make free time to maintain sanity? No. We were herded around like cattle, forced to introduce ourselves to everyone twenty times, forced into “friendships” that should happen when the time is right. Freshmen orientation, while completely necessary, needs some major reform and some shortening. We want to become oriented to what is really important.

Kathryn Cole is a freshman from Sullivan’s Island, S.C. Contact her at kacole@davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31, 2005

Reprisal on Rove

One of the major political stories of the summer was undoubtedly the revelation that White House Deputy Chief of Staff and top Bush adviser Karl Rove apparently told reporters that Valerie Plame, the wife of administration critic Joseph Wilson, was an undercover CIA operative working on issues related to weapons of mass destruction. This leak, presumably orchestrated in retaliation for Wilson’s casting doubt on the administration’s prewar assertions about Iraq’s WMD programs, has triggered a Justice Department investigation and created very negative press for the Bush administration. Despite the conscientious and discreet way in which special prosecutor Patrick Fitzgerald has conducted the investigation, more facts about the case have been revealed to the public over the course of the summer, and the picture is not pretty for the administration. First, it seems quite obvious that Rove did in fact leak Plame’s name to reporters, possibly including conservative pundit Robert Novak, who published her name shortly after a conversation he had with Rove and thereby effectively ended her undercover career. Rove’s claim that he learned of Plame’s identity from reporters is inconsistent with the accounts of those very reporters. It has also become clear that a State Department memo apparently read by senior administration officials included information about Plame in a paragraph clearly marked with an “S” for “Secret.” This notation is significant because any government official who knowingly leaks the identity of an undercover CIA operative is guilty of a federal crime punishable by up to ten years in prison. Several news sources have also reported that Fitzgerald is looking into serious discrepancies between the grand-jury testimony of Rove and other White House officials and that of the reporters involved in the case. If Rove or others were indeed dishonest with the grand jury — something that, as you may recall, Republican leaders used to think was sort of a big deal — they likely lied about a matter relevant to the investigation and thus crossed the legal line from morally reprehensible dishonesty into criminally prosecutable perjury. In any case, while it is unclear at this point where the criminal investigation of the situation will lead, Rove’s role in leaking the name of a covert operative should lead to at least his loss of his job at the White House. The delicious irony for Democrats, of course, is that it appears as though the hyper-partisanship that has been such a key part of Karl Rove’s political strategy throughout his career may finally be coming back to bite him. It is important, however, for Democrats to take a lesson from the midterm elections of 1998. These elections, despite being held at the height of a sex scandal that received far more press coverage than has the Plame issue, saw the Democratic Party take back five seats in the House, an unheard-of achievement for a party in the midst of a second-term presidency. Perhaps just as important, in that year the Democrats also knocked off the two Republican senators arguably most involved in pursuing the Lewinsky scandal, Al D’Amato from New York and North Carolina’s own Lauch Faircloth. The Democrats must realize, then, that scandal-mongering, while it may be viscerally satisfying, is unlikely to help their prospects in 2006. Rather, they must continue to allow the special prosecutor to do his job while keeping their own attacks focused on the president’s plans for Social Security and tax reform and on his apparent lack of any serious plan for Iraq. Of course, that doesn’t mean that they cannot, in the meantime, enjoy watching Rove choke on the proverbial dose of his own medicine.

Joe Reed is a sophomore political science major from Raleigh, N.C. Contact him at joreed@davidson.edu.