The Davidsonian
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2005
First Class U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1 Davidson, NC
VOLUME 97, NUMBER 4

CAT-TV adds trial channels
By JILLIAN BARTELS
Staff Writer

CAT-TV added two Davidson-specific channels for a six-week trial basis that will end on September 30. If these channels are popular with students and the idea is approved by President Bobby Vagt and Dean of Students Thomas Shandley, the hope is to have them on the air permanently by the beginning of next semester.

The new channels, channels two and three, are being used as a TV Guide channel and a movie channel that runs movies in the late afternoon and evenings. Last spring, Shandley tasked a committee of Residence Life Office (RLO) staff, Information Technology Services (ITS) staff, and students from the Student Government Association (SGA) with deciding what to do with two local channels provided as part of the cable services of Campus Televideo, Davidson’s cable television provider.

The committee, unsure of what programming options Davidson students would prefer, contacted two companies that provide services for channels such as the Davidson local channels. Both of these programming providers said they would be happy to allow Davidson to run demos of the programs they were offering.

One of these companies is Zap-2-It, which provides scrolling channel line-up for any cable or satellite system, regardless of provider. According to student members of the committee, this service was strongly desired by the

See CAT-TV, page 4

CAT-TV added two channels on a trial basis this month.

see A&L, PAGE 6
‘Gardener’ a sure pick

P.S., the new student-run restaurant, prepared for its opening on Friday with a soft launch on Monday. Eleven student cooks prepared a four-course Indian meal all day in the kitchen of Vail Commons and then served 20 guests in the DuPont room at 6 p.m.

“[The soft launch] went wonderfully,” said Matt Hassett ’08, the chair of the restaurant committee. “It really felt like home. We had some no-shows for the people invited, so we just grabbed people on their way to dinner at Commons and offered them a four-course Indian meal. We had a good crowd, and everyone was really excited.” Students can purchase tickets at the Union Ticket Office.

Movie-viewing in Chambers not Code of Responsibility infraction
By MIKE TELLIS
Staff Writer

Davidson’s Honor Code allows Chambers to remain unlocked during non-academic hours as a place for students to study, but recently the administration has learned that many students are using the technology in the classrooms for other purposes, especially movie-viewing. Rather than adding classroom misuse to the list of infractions in the Code of Responsibility, the administration expects students to voluntarily stop using classrooms for non-academic purposes.

“We discussed early on whether classrooms should be locked at night, and decided against it, trustingIn the sense of responsibility of the Davidson community, not in locks or in detailed regulatory additions to the Code of Responsibility,” said Registrar Hansford Epes. The administration feels Chambers is equipped solely for academic purposes and that student misuse hinders these original purposes. “Not only does the equipment get worn out, but the misuse of classrooms causes lots of inconvenience when these classrooms are being used for academic purposes. Often, students will leave equipment on the entire night, unhook wires and reconnect them incorrectly, and sometimes even leave the equipment disconnected. Precious class time gets wasted in

Gruber named Dean of Admission
Gruber brings fresh, compelling vision to Davidson
By JOHN WATKINS
Staff Writer

Last week, the Board of Trustees endorsed the recommendation of Chris Gruber as Dean of Admission and Financial Aid. A search committee selected Gruber from two other candidates who made it to the final stage of the selection process. While the applicant pool for the position was exceedingly strong, there were a few things that set Gruber apart from the rest.

“Gruber has particularly effective management and leadership abilities [and was able to] present his vision in a precise and compelling manner,” said Professor of Psychology Julio Ramirez, member of the executive search committee.

Gruber will be responsible for managing enrollment, recruitment, and merit scholarships here at Davidson. Given that the Dean of Admissions is a vice president level position, it will also be necessary for Gruber to serve on the President’s cabinet for “college-wide planning, budgeting, strategic initiatives, and enrollment.”

Gruber’s admissions plan consists most notably of a process in which grades and test scores are a reflection of a student, not the things that define him or her. In shaping each class, Gruber wants to find students who can contribute to the overall student body experience.

“Mr. Gruber was able to broadly articulate not only an enthusiasm for but a fairly specific plan for Davidson admissions, electronic and otherwise, with respect to personal engagement. Also, he listens well,” President Bobby Vagt said.

The committee was looking for a candidate that would preserve the personal touch of the admissions process and continue to target certain skill sets or underrepresented groups, not just in terms of ethnicity, but also in terms of socioeconomic status, musicians, or science majors to name a few.

Gruber hopes to cast an image of the school that makes clear the uniqueness of Davidson. He believes that there are certain threads that run through the faculty, staff, and students that are unique. He wants these to be explicit in the admissions process and for applicants to immerse themselves so they can truly know what it is to be a Davidson student.

Gruber came to Davidson as Director of Admission from the University of Richmond last January. That position assisted the previous Dean of Admission and

See Gruber, page 5

‘The Sound of Speed’ see SPORTS, PAGE 12

Development encroaches local wetlands see NEWS, PAGE 3