THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Power supply: ’Cats’ offense light it up

By WALKER SAIK
Senior Staff Writer

Andrew Musashe ’05 had been a switch-hitter his entire career until last season, when he tried batting solely from the right side. He struggled heartily, striking out 85 times and ending the season with a paltry .228 average. This past off-season, though, Musashe dedicated himself to a return to switch-hitting, and the hard work has paid off many times over, as he is now leading the ’Cats in several offensive categories, including batting average (.411) and runs scored.

The turn-around for Musashe is only a small part of what the Davidson offense has done this year. A team that batted just .274 last year is hitting at a .328 clip through 15 games this season, and their slugging is up nearly 150 points from .379 to .528.

“We worked real hard this off-season and just re-dedicated ourselves as a team,” said first baseman Taylor Shoop ’05, whose five home runs and .700 slugging percentage lead the team. “This year, we just decided as an offense that we wanted to step it up and score more runs.”

Musashe, in turn, cites the improved practice time as a reason for the better play. “We now have two paid assistant coaches, which gives us additional options for extra batting practice,” said Musashe. “It’s common to have two or three guys stay after every practice to work on their swing, which did not happen in the past.”

Coach Dick Cooke, in his 15th season as the Davidson head coach, sees it rather as a continuation of their same approach. “There’s no one thing we’ve done any differently,” says Cooke. “Our guys have done a good job in practice and [batting practice], repeating the same things each day and not trying to re-invent the wheel. If we have a game where we don’t swing it as well, we don’t try to change our approach.”

It’s this game discipline that Cooke most credits the early success to—simply being able to bounce back from a tough day at the plate without panicking. “You can have times when a pitcher just said Cooke. “Hitters really have to be patient, and sometimes just tip their cap to the guy because he played really well.”

For all you stat-heads and Moneyball guys out there wondering just how much better the offense is, here is your one sentence of utter joy: Davidson is on pace to double its production in runs, home runs, and walks, while its on-base-percentage is nearly 100 points higher at .422, and the team is on pace for over a thousand total bases.

But Cooke doesn’t want his team to get ahead of itself and think of themselves as a power team. He says that windy weather has inflated power numbers a bit, and that it is important for his team not to start swinging for the fences. “We hit some balls hard, but there were some balls that got out of the ballpark for us that probably would not have left the ballpark on less windy days, so that’s inflated the power stuff a little bit,” said Cooke about some of the slugfests they’ve played in.

Shoop ’05 leads the team in home runs and slugging. “The worst thing is to start thinking ‘Hey, I’m a home run hitter now.’ That’s how you go 0-9.” Shoop also attributes the success to being more patient at the plate. With walks and on-base percentage way up this season, the team is seeing significant improvements.year, the ’Cats certainly have more RBI opportunities. “For me, it’s just about being patient, just doing the things I’m capable of doing and not trying to do too much,” he said. “It’s definitely a team effort, though, and no one player can shoulder the load. No one succeeds individually without the team succeeding.” With a home conference series against UNCG coming up this weekend, the ’Cats are getting ready for the heart of their season. 

“We don’t talk about the number of runs; we just talk about trying to win the inning and make adjustments as needed. We're playing a lot from this point on, so there’s not a lot of reworking. It’s more of repeating what made you effective.”

photo courtesy Sports Information

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2005

GRILL

Davidson fell short on a ninth-inning rally, losing 4-3 in the opener of the series. Heafner hit another home run in the ninth, but the two-run blast was not enough. Sam Navarro ’05 also added two hits while playing DH. The Davidson pitching staff was not as successful the next two days, surrendering 38 runs in just two games and losing the other two games of the weekend battle. Benefield and Musashe each blasted home runs in game two, and Navarro added another three hits, but Georgia Southern jumped on the ’Cats early and won comfortably, 17-8. The final game resembled a football score more than that of a baseball game, as the Wildcats scored ten runs and still managed to lose by 11. Shoop crushed three home runs for the visiting side but the powerful Georgia Southern offense was far too much on this day. Heafner had another two-hit, two-RBI performance, but the Eagles exploded for 15 runs in the first three innings and cruised to a 21-10 win.

“Andy battled well on Friday,” Cooke said, “but we just didn’t pitch well, and that drives everything else. When you pitch well, you can relax and everything else comes together.”

Davidson (8-7, 0-3 SoCon) looks to bounce back on Wednesday as they visit ACC foe NC State. The ’Cats will fight for their first Southern Conference victory this weekend as they host a formidable team, especially the pitching staff, in a three-game weekend series as UNC Greensboro travels into town.

when they’ll be playing four or five games a week. In addition, as the team faces other SoCon opponents, it'll begin facing tougher opposing pitchers that will test the early-season offensive success.

“We’re going to see three very good arms from UNCG,” said Cooke. “We try not to let one good pitcher shut you down, and I think it’s critical for a hitter not to change his approach just because he’s facing a good pitcher.”

Receive a $100 rebate when you enroll in a Kaplan course between March 1 and March 31. Limited time offer! Call or visit us online for more information or to enroll.

KAPLAN Test Prep and Admissions

Higher test scores guaranteed or your money back

1-800-KAP-TEST kaptest.com/rebate

Test names are the trademarks of their respective owners. **Conditions and restrictions apply. For complete guarantee eligibility requirements, visit kaptest.com/hsg. The Higher Score Guarantee applies only to Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions courses taken and completed within the United States and Canada. Rebate offer applies only to PCAT and TOEFL courses. Must enroll between 3/1/05 and 3/31/05. Visit kaptest.com/rebate for more details.

ALL-BEEF "JUMBO" HOT DOGS SERVED ON GRIDDLE TOASTED ROLLS, GERMAN BRATS, SWEET ITALIAN SAUSAGE, POLISH KIELBASA & OUR OWN PORK BAR-B-Q, BEAR'S BEST "SN8" PHILLY CHEESESTEAKS & CHICKENSTEAKS

109 B SAM FURR RD - HUNTERSVILLE NC 1-77 EXIT 25 - RT #73 - "EASY OFF/EASY ON"

Hours - Daily 11AM - 8PM; Closed Sunday

Phone Number: (704) 895-2692

www.buzzyandbearsgrill.com