THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

CAN HOCKEY BE SAVED? A FAN’S PROPOSAL TO SALVAGE THE NHL

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2005

By BRENT McCormick
Guest Columnist

At the ripe age of three, I learned how to ice skate. Carrying a hand-me-down pair of skates and a
rusty metal folding chair, I produced in one afternoon of chair-aided circles a lifelong love of all things hockey. In
a family made up of three hockey players and a figure skater, I spent the better part of my younger
years, in some capacity, inside an ice rink. I remember my last high school hockey game more vividly than my
high school graduation. When famed Boston Bruins forward Cam Neely retired, I took it upon myself, as a nine-year-old, to
personally retire his number in reverence. Needless to say, I pretty much cannot live without hockey.

When the NHL lockout proved to be a reality, I was shielded from the initial sting of it by being
in London. Upon my return, however, I found what I feared to be fully realized. There was no NHL season,
and worse, nobody cared. As Bobby Kenner, goaltender for our own Davidson roller hockey team sardonically expressed, “Lockout? More like
‘who cares’-out.”

Plagued by poor ratings and returns, the lockout stems from granting player contracts larger than what their product warrants. “Our
game is great, our game is popular, but not popular enough to control $8, $9 or $10-million salaries going out,”
said Jeremy Roenick, a perennial NHL all-star. Essentially, big contract players want their money, and owners won’t pay that without
increased revenue that can only come from increased popularity of the sport.

In an effort to save the NHL and hockey in general, I have devised a list of ways to improve
the appeal of hockey by making it a better, more marketable product:

1. Shorten the season: An 82-game schedule is much too long for the average American attention span. The NHL playoffs
are the most grueling and (extreme bias inserted here) without a doubt most entertaining playoffs to watch in professional sports.
Unfortunately, with the current season length, these playoffs conflict with the extreme popularity of a renewed baseball season as well
as the lackluster NBA playoffs (which, despite usually sucking, detract from the appeal and coverage of the Stanley Cup playoffs,
the oldest, most enduring trophy in all of professional sports). By shortening the schedule, you increase the importance of each
individual game.

2. Reduce the number of teams: Frankly, there are too many teams. Some teams exist in cities that just shouldn’t
have them, and relocation has further confused the geographic make-up of the league. The excess of teams dilutes talent level,
and it is this influx of mediocre players that makes the game so unappealing to many fans. With the decrease
in teams, the skill level and thus the product rises.

3. Relocate teams: Some teams need to be moved to more appropriate locations. For example:
- Nashville Predators: Move them to Canada. Just root for Ottawa, Toronto, or Montreal, because they are all better teams
anyway. Plus, the new uniforms are crap.
- Columbus Blue Jackets: Because no one really cares.
- Phoenix Coyotes: Again, because no one really cares.
- Dallas Stars: Because it is only a matter of time before Texas annexes itself and secedes from the Union.
- Tampa Bay: Because the senior discount absolutely kills ticket revenue.

4. Implement rule changes: Several rule changes can be applied to make hockey enjoyable even to those people who watch
the game and never successfully follow the puck. For one, shrink the goaltender’s padding. The average goals-against average for the
top five NHL goalies last season was the lowest it has ever been, and the last four years were the
first four ever where the leading GAA was below 2.00. This means goals aren’t going in.

5. Eliminate the two-line pass rule: This rule states that when crossing the two blue lines and red line, a
player’s pass cannot go further than some ten feet. This offensive handicap causes the lulls in hockey games where the
puck merely changes possession.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

While remaining in the neutral zone and neither team achieves substantial offense, by eliminating two-line passes, we create a more
open ice surface. Players can spread out and create adequate scoring opportunities and offense. Slow it down. When play resumes,
it maintains the momentum of the game. If the off-sides rule means just simply nod in agreement, you appear very
smart to those around you.

Touch-up icing is a phenomenon exclusive to the NHL. Only after a defensive player is forced to skate back into
the defensive zone is icing called. Not only does this rule put players in needless danger by forcing them to
race, but by immediately calling icing, the benefit of this blatant stall-tactic is completely negated. A large part of hockey’s
appeal is the speed with which it is played, and certain rules, like delayed off-sides, allow players to keep playing
despite six concussions and bouts of post-concussion syndrome. It is only a matter of time before dangerous rules such as
touch-up icing result in injuries that turn fatal.

Upon adopting these rule changes, the game will be more fast-paced, momentum-driven, and offensive, and visibly appealing, with a smaller
chance of death.

Induce Fan Loyalty: There are several ways that the NHL can induce fan loyalty, besides the obvious option of ending
the lockout. For one, they need to strengthen the sense of rivalry between, well... rivals. By adopting a system similar
to baseball, there would be various blocks of the schedule devoted to three or five-game series against established perennial rivals.
The immediate impact that these mini-series would have on the league standings would add to the sense of importance attributed
to each game. With a shortened schedule of 62 games (20 less), a three or five-game series against a divisional
rival could very well determine the fate of an entire season.

Fans need to feel a connection to the players. Any true fan knows the roster of his favorite team and
probably has a replica jersey of his favorite player, with the name on the back and everything. However, with the
trend of one-year contracts and renting players for a playoff run becoming more and more prevalent, fan favorites are traded
almost as soon as their merchandise is made available. By instituting a minimum-year requirement (say three years) for contracts above
a certain value (say $1.5 million), the fans are given sufficient time to make a connection with those players. By
requiring a player to stay with one organization for that set period, you also instill a sense of team loyalty
among the players. A player with a team-first, incentives-latent contract and a minimum-year requirement will have no motive other than
winning. After all, you can never have too much memorabilia commemorating your team’s championship victory.

Additionally, lower ticket prices. High ticket prices cause fans to purchase the cheap, upper-deck seats to a hockey game, seats
that often are less appealing than the view from a TV screen. By lowering the prices of the more premium
seating and making the upgrade more palatable to fans, premium seats will be sold and the game will be enjoyed
by the fans up close, as it should be, while still providing easily affordable upper-level seating. Players never look as
big as they do when you sit front row, hits seem bigger, shots seem harder, and it is only when
seen up close that you truly realize how much talent and skill is required to be a hockey player.

The lockout has truly hurt the future prospects of hockey and those who rely on it for a living. Not
only are bench players suffering due to the greed of a few overpaid players who fear a salary cap (i.e.,
response to their current, overpaid status), but those most vital to the game’s existence also feel the absence.

If and when the NHL returns, it has to make its priority those who are the source of its vitality:
its fans. Roenick, an outspoken advocate for the game of hockey, prophetically summed it all up. “Because of all this,
the owners and the players are going to have to find a way to give back to the fans, whether
it’s lower ticket prices, offering more packages, offering more TV exposure. There has to be something so fans can say,
‘This lockout was worth it because I got something out of it.’ If we take the hockey the way it
was during this period of time and keep it as-is, it’s going to be hard to get people back.”
