14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2005

Womack and Smith connect for win vs. Elon

By SUZIE ECKL
Staff Writer

The women’s soccer team extended its unbeaten streak to five games after Thursday’s 1-0 win over Elon and Sunday’s 3-0
win over Georgia Southern. Maggie Womack ’07 scored the Wildcats’ lone goal of the game against Elon, her first of
the season. After Tiffany Mumby ’09 drew a foul on the sideline, Mel Smith ’09 took a free kick that
deflected off of Womack’s knee into the net.

“I was in the right place at the right time for the finish,” said Womack. “Mel made a great free
kick.”

Throughout the game, the ’Cats created a number of scoring chances that they were unable to capitalize on. Nancy Haskell
’06 said, “We should have put away more of those opportunities; they were there.” Co-captain Kara Koehrn ’06 hammered the
ball into the crossbar with only 1:44 remaining in the first period, failing to make the most of what was
perhaps the best scoring chance of the night. Nevertheless, coach Greg Ashton said, “I’m proud of how our back four
and Laura played in the second half. Elon is a very organized team which makes it tough to defend against
them.”

Davidson finished on top in the shot department, registering 14 shots to Elon’s eight. Goalkeeper Laura Schulenborg ’06 stopped Elon’s
only shot on goal and recorded her second consecutive shutout of the season. She didn’t stop there. Davidson’s keeper continued
her streak Sunday night, bringing her shutout total to three after defeating Georgia Southern. With Davidson dominating the game with
a shot count of 35 to three, Schulenborg did not have much action and now stands as the only SoCon
goalie not to have allowed a goal in league play.

“Schulie is doing awesome,” Mumby said.

Mumby put in two of the Wildcats’ three goals of the day, both in the second half. Smith knocked the
ball over the top of the defense where Mumby ran on and passed it into the goal, her first in
her college career. Her second was not long in coming.

“Kara did all the work,” Mumby said of her second goal, which came after Kara Koehrn dribbled down the field
and shot off the post. Mumby was then able to put in the deflection.

“It’s nice that we have depth in all areas of the field. On any given day, any one of the
players, including the freshmen, can step up and pull the team through,” Womack said.

The Wildcats’ first goal did not come until the 66th minute when Amanda Traver ’07 scored her second game-winning goal
against Georgia Southern in as many years. Anne Stevens ’07 assisted after passing the ball to Traver who put it
in off of a shot with her left foot from about 20 yards out. The second half was definitely a
stronger offensive effort for the Wildcats. Of their 35 shots, 25 came after halftime along with all of their goals.

Even after three SoCon games and three SoCon wins, the Wildcats know

Cross country teams find success at Lehigh

By WILL BRYAN
Staff Writer

The men’s cross country team got a chance to run against tough competition last weekend. After a second-place finish in
their meet atWinthrop back in September, the *Cats traveled up to Bethlehem, PA, to compete in the Lehigh Invitational along
with 43 other squads. Davidson earned a team ranking of 36 out of those 44 schools as they were pushed
hard by excellent runners from all over the country. The Cats finished in last place a year ago, and this
performance shows great improvement over a year’s time. Individually, the ’Cats fastest runner was Lance Harden ’09, who turned in
a time of 25:42 in a race that spanned eight kilometers or nearly five miles. That performance was a great
improvement over his time of 27:06 in the Winthrop meet nearly two weeks prior. The time also earned Harden a
spot on the Davidson cross country “Top Ten Performers” list. “As a freshman, Lehigh was the largest, most competitive meet
I’ve ever run in, and I really enjoyed the experience,” said Harden. “We have a real close-knit team this season.
The seniors have really taken me under their wing, and their advice and encouragement has helped me both athletically and
academically.” Among the entire field, Harden’s time was good for 147th overall, while Jonathan Baker ’05 finished with an overall
ranking of 156th and his classmate Austin Mercadante ’05 placed 192nd. Every Davidson runner turned in a personal best time
on one of the season’s toughest courses with its greatest competition. “We have made great strides so far this season,
and we have the opportunity to significantly improve our standing in the Southern Conference,” said Harden. The ’Cats will look
to build upon this outstanding performance on Oct. 14 as they travel to Boone, NC, to compete in the Blue
Ridge Mountain Open.

The women also ran in Bethlehem this weekend. Brenna Burns ’08 finished 12th and brought her team to 12th place
honors among the 47 teams participating in the Paul Short Run at Lehigh University. Burns’ 20:56 run in the 6K
event was followed by Allie Martin ’06, who came in 32nd with a time of 21:28. Megal Atias ’08 rounded
out the top three for the Wildcats with a 47th place finish. Said Martin, “It was a great race for
the team. It was our first 6K of the season, and we stacked up well against the large and competitive
field. We raced against regionally and nationally ranked teams, which was great preparation for the rest of our season.” The
women will also participate in the Blue Ridge Mountain Open on Oct. 14 for their next meet.

They have to keep focused. “We need to improve on our finishes and get ready for Appalachian State on Thursday,”
Ashton said after Sunday’s game. Mirroring Ashton’s sentiment, Haskell said, “We haven’t run into the top teams in our conference.
We’ve got work ahead of us.” Despite winning both games, the team experienced moments of frustration. “We knew that we
were the better team and the games should not have been so close,” Womack said. Davidson hopes to further its
unbeaten streak on Thursday, Oct. 6 when the team meets Appalachian State on the field at 7 p.m.

WANT TO WRITE FOR SPORTS? EMAIL PITRUMBO OR MOJAMOUNEAU
