14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2005

The Wildcat Pulse: a glance at Davidson athletics

Field Hockey allows two early goals to Radford; loses second straight 3-1

An early start for host Radford caused field hockey to fall 3-1 in their Northern Pacific Conference opener this Saturday. Radford scored three times in two minutes to secure its victory in the first half of the game. The opening goal entered Davidson’s net unassisted by a Radford player at roughly seven minutes into the first half. The Highlanders went on to score on their next shot a minute later. A deflection into the goal off of a short corner shot put Radford up 2-0. A short 30 seconds later, the opposing team scored their third and final goal of the game.

After 27 minutes of play, the Wildcats finally found the goal when co-captain Emily Davis ’06 scored off of an assist from Kayli Maxwell ’08. Though the second half of the game remained scoreless, it was not without pressure. Radford continued to push and totaled 10 shots to Davidson’s two in the second quarter. Goalie and co-captain Rachel Kiselewich ’07 performed well, making six saves to keep the score 3-1. Maxwell also contributed the first defensive save of her career at Davidson.

Radford dominated the shot count, taking the ’Cats 15-8, with over half of their shots coming in the highly contested second half. Each team was awarded seven penalty corners, although none of them resulted in a goal.

“It was a really tough and physical game,” said coach Lisa Thompson. “This was a frustrating game, but it will not be a setback. We played strong all the way to the end. The girls never let up.”

“It is tough to rebound from three down. But Radford was able to score three goals in the first nine minutes, and so can we,” said Thompson.

Davis said, “Saturday’s game was disappointing because we let ourselves get behind so early in the game. It was frustrating for all of us, but I am confident that we are going to bounce back and not let ourselves get behind so early ever again. We are going to be working very hard this week to train for our upcoming games in Ohio and are all very determined to fix what we need to work on in order to win our games this weekend.”

Davidson will next travel to Oxford, Ohio, on Sept. 17 to play two noon-time games against Saint Louis on Sept. 17 and Miami of Ohio on Sept. 18.

Meghan Curtis, Staff Writer

Golf starts season with 16th-place finish at Mid-Pines Intercollegiate

This week, Davidson’s golf team spent three days at the Mid-Pines Intercollegiate, finishing in a 16th-place tie with Marshall University. As a team, the Cats shot a total of 886 in three rounds on the 72-par course. The score puts them three strokes above what they shot last year at the same tournament.

Alex Knoll ’07 finished on top for the ’Cats, shooting a total of 216. This brought him to a 24th-place tie out of 99 competitors. Knoll qualified for the U.S. Public Links Championship this summer for the second consecutive year and also participated in the 2005 U.S. Amateur. With only one stroke behind...Knoll, Tim Dillon ’06 finished in a tie for 30th while Steve Mayo ’07 came in tied for 40th. In each round, Knoll’s strokes were strong with a 73, 71, and 72. Dillon shot best in the first round with three-under-par at a 69. Mayo also shot at three-under-par in the second round. Chad Cocco, representing St. Mary’s (CA), came out on top with a total of 206, a full 10 strokes under par. The top finishing team, Charlotte, shot 14 under par for a three-round total of 864. Davidson stood tied for 14th place before starting the final round on Tuesday. Before the season began, coach Tim Straub said, “There’s a lot more depth on our team now. We’ve recruited kids who are serious about taking this team forward.” In fact, players on the team must compete for a starting spot as there is a full roster. Dillon is perhaps Davidson’s most consistent player. Last season, he put up top-20 finishes six times in just 10 tournaments. In eight of them, he placed first or tied for first for the Davidson team. The Wildcats hope to become stronger as the fall season continues. Their next tournament, the Rains Development Group Intercollegiate, will take place in South Carolina on Sept. 18-20.

Suzie Eckl, Staff Writer

Volleyball loses two, wins one in Classic

A 3-1 loss to East Tennessee State University, the fifth in a row for the ’Cats, began Davidson’s stint at the 2005 Mizuno Wildcat Classic on Friday night. Although the teams were tied at 13-all early in the first game, ETSU won 30-24. Game two ended better for Davidson, who took a lead against the Buccaneers, 28-24, and won with a kill by Liz Williamson ’07, making the final score 30-24. Unfortunately, ETSU had a high attack percentage in the third and fourth games at 30-25 and 30-22, respectively, and the Bucs took the match 3-1. With 14 kills and 17 assists, Katie Pierucci ’08 was the offensive leader for the Wildcats. Co-captain Erin Balak ’06 recorded 20 assists to lead Davidson in that area. The team’s first win of the season came at home against Howard on Saturday. Davidson won the first and third games, losing the second. Kittery Neale ’09 played well for the ’Cats, with four kills, while Balak and co-captain Jenna Dykstra ’07 each contributed five assists. Howard won 30-27 to require a fifth game. Despite an early stalemate, the ’Cats took command and won the deciding game. Davidson fell to Duquesne 3-0 in its next match. Though the first game was a close defeat for the ’Cats, ending at 30-26, the second game was a rout by the Dukes, 30-19. A tie in the third game gave Davidson hope, but with a five-point run, Duquesne took the match 30-16.

Monica Jamouneau, Sports Editor

EXPERIENCE FOR YOUR RESUME. MONEY FOR COLLEGE.

Strengthening your personal skills is not the only benefit of joining the Army. You can also receive cash bonuses and money for college. If you qualify, you can receive a $20,000 Enlistment Bonus, $65,000 College Loan Repayment, or $70,000 from the Army College Fund. Find out more at GOARMY.COM or 1-800-USA-ARMY.

Where: U.S. Army Recruiting Station
When: 9 a.m. - 6 p.m. Monday-Friday
Who: Sgt. 1st Class Powers, 704-563-0560

AN ARMY OF ONE

1-77 EXIT 25~RT #73~ Hours~Daily 11AM—9PM
Phone Number: (704) 895-2692
www.buzzyandbearsgrill.com

15% OFF WITH CATCARD!

GOURMET FLAME BROILED ALL-BEEF “JUMBO” HOT DOGS SERVED ON GRIDDLE TOASTED ROLLS, GERMAN BRATS, SWEET ITALIAN SAUSAGE, POLISH KIELBASA & OUR OWN PORK BAR-B-QUE, BEAR’S BEST “SN8” PHILLY CHEESESTEAKS & CHICKENSTEAKS

9709-B SAM FURR RD-HUNTERSVILLE, NC