THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Wildcats triumph in consecutive matches

By MONICA JAMOUNEAU
Sports Editor

Volleyball won their first back-to-back five-game contests this week before falling to Chattanooga by a score of 3-0 on Sunday.
The wins came against Gardner-Webb last Wednesday and Western Carolina on Saturday. Liz Williamson ’07 once again paced the ’Cats
on kills. Kittery Neale ’09 had a career-high performance against the Gardner-Webb Bulldogs, finishing with 13 kills. It was Davidson’s
third win of the season and the fourth match to be drawn out to five games.

Play began well for the Wildcats, and they went on to win the initial two games with 30-20 and 30-21
decisions. The ’Cats hit at a .341 team average in the first game, which was followed by a seven-point streak
by Williamson in the second. Game three and four ended in favor of the Bulldogs, who won the third by
a score of 30-28. In the fourth game, Gardner-Webb racked up a hit average of .368, had 17 kills, and
defeated the Wildcats 30-21.

The fifth game started without a clear advantage. Neale had an early kill to make the score 5-3, but after
taking a timeout, a quick 9-6 streak had the Bulldogs up 12-11. Erin Balak ’06 came through with a kill
to tie the game at 13-13. Balak and Neale gave Davidson the advantage with a double block. Davidson defeated the
Bulldogs in the final game 15-13, and an overall score of 3-2 for the match. It was only the third
loss for Gardner-Webb in its last 11 matches. Williamson led the ’Cats with 22 kills.

The team next played Western Carolina. With this second triumph of the week, also ending 3-2, the ’Cats improved to
a 4-1 record for matches decided by five games and began conference play 1-0. Williamson aided the Wildcats by contributing
her third 20-kill match. The first game was a battle for points, but after a 10-4 run, Davidson held the
game at 14-8. Despite a strong offensive effort by the Catamounts to bring the score within two at 17-15, the
Wildcats remained ahead and defeated the host team 30-21, with 16 kills.

In the second game, Lindsay Paroczai ’09 added six kills to her three from the first contest and helped Davidson
open the game with a 7-4 advantage. After a long fight, during which the ’Cats led by as many as
six points, a service ace from the Catamounts evened up the game at 25-25. Western Carolina continued to dominate and
tied the match 1-1 with a 30-26 win.

The match began to look like an eventual Wildcat defeat when Western Carolina handed the ’Cats another loss in the
third game. The opposing team held a seven-point lead early into the play, 11-4, and although Davidson came within two
points, it was never able to gain the advantage. Neale and Williamson, however, contributed consecutive kills in the fourth game
to give early control to the ’Cats, with a score of 10-6. A few minutes later, Davidson lengthened the lead
to 10 points. Despite that run, Western Carolina did not give in and eventually tied the game 22-all. After swapping
points, the Catamounts finally had a chance to end the match, but a block from Williamson and Alison Dwyer ’09
again evened the score. Katie Pierucci ’08 then made a game-saving kill, which was followed by an attacking error by
Western Carolina. Davidson won 31-29 and stayed alive to play the fifth game.

Williamson served up nine consecutive points in the final game and gave the ’Cats a decisive 9-0 lead. The Catamounts
were unable to come within six points and lost to Davidson 15-5 on the game and 3-2 on the match.
Said Pierucci, “It was great to pick up back-to-back wins for the first time this season, and hopefully they will
give us the advantage in our upcoming home games.”

The next day, Davidson traveled to take on host UT-Chattanooga. UT-C took an early lead in game one. Despite coming
within a point of the lead at 15-16, Davidson lost momentum and dropped the game 25-30. Both teams had 16
kills, but unfortunately for the ’Cats, Chattanooga ended with a higher hitting average (.297-.231). A 30-25 decision for the Mocs
gave them thewin in the second game, although strong play by Pierucci and Tierney Hodge ’09, who combined for six
kills and a block, tied the game 15-all earlier. The ’Cats looked their best in the third game and took
the lead at 8-5 when Balak served two aces. UT-C reasserted its control over the play and went on a
7-2 run late into the game. Williamson, who contributed 13 kills to the match, and Pierucci, with 10, could not
carry Davidson to the win. The Wildcats lost 30-22, which caused them to fall 3-0 in the match. Jenna Dykstra
’07 added a game-high 31 assists and 14 digs for her fourth double-double this season. The Wildcats will be back
in action this Saturday against visiting SoCon opponent Elon, to be followed by another conference match versus UNC-Greensboro on Sunday.
“They should be good games,” said Pierucci. “Although the competition will be tough, if we continue to play well, we’ll
win.”

(704) 655-4444
18059-8 W. Catawba Ave. * Cornelius, NC
BUFFALO WINGS
FRESH HOMEMADE DOUGH & SAUCE
HAND TOSSED PIZZAS
FRESH SALADS
OVER 20 VARIATIONS OF BREADSTICKS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2005

Lisa Cuellar ’07 and the Wildcats defeat Gardner-Webb and Western Carolina

Field hockey losing streak now at five

BY KEVIN BIRNEY
Staff Writer

Field hockey continued to struggle this weekend, losing at home to Indiana University (Pa.) by a score of 2-1. With
the loss, Davidson dropped to 1-5 on the season. Although the ’Cats outshot IUP 18-8, Davidson failed to capitalize on
many opportunities on the offensive end. The lone Wildcat goal was notched by Eleanor Cowley ’08, who scored off of
a rebound just outside of the cage from a shot by Catherine Rasone ’08. Rasone was given the assist. The
loss was the fifth in a row for Davidson, who began the season with a thrilling double overtime win at
home against Rider but has struggled since. Against Indiana, the ’Cats dug themselves into a hole once again, allowing IUP
to score the first goal 21 minutes into the game on a penalty shot. Davidson caused the Indian’s goalkeeper to
make four saves in the first half of the game but was unable to finish on the attack. Down 1-0
at halftime, the Wildcats tied the game on Cowley’s goal but could not hold on as an IUP forward scored
the winning goal on a penalty corner at 57:45. Despite several shots, Davidson could not answer. “Our main problem has
been finishing,” Cowley said. “We are playing great and doing wonderful things, but we just need to finish by putting
the goals in.”

The loss came after a major highlight a few days earlier when Jen Willis ’08 was named NorPac Defensive Player
of the Week. Willis has recorded five defensive saves so far through six games, good enough for her to place
second in the nation. She earned the honor this past week after an impressive weekend in Oxford, OH, where she
recorded one defensive save against St. Louis and one against Miami (OH). “Cal is a very skilled and fit team,
so we need to out-cut them to every ball and make sure we have clean passes and receptions. There won’t
be much room for mistakes against a team like Cal,” said co-captain Molly Blackman ’06. Cowley added, “Our team still
has high morale, and we are pumped up about playing Cal on Thursday.” Said Blackman, “I think our speed will
be a huge advantage for us. As long as we focus on the fundamentals, keep our composure defensively, and take
advantage of our scoring opportunities, we will put an end to the losing streak on Thursday.” The game, which begins
at 6:30 p.m. tomorrow, is the first of five straight games at home on the turf. With the home crowd
behind them, the ’Cats will hope to reverse their fortunes and end a streak of frustratingly close losses.

And study abroad means the University Studies Abroad Consortium where you can choose from 25 countries. Come soak up the
vibrant culture and be transformed by the experience. We offer personalized attention from start to finish. Summer, semester, and yearlong
programs. * Intensive language courses * Language courses at all levels * Field trips and tours * Small classes *
University credit * Scholarships * Housing. A USAC representative may be coming to campus. Visit usac.unr.edu for exact dates and
locations.
