THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2005

Learn the uncomfort; Skeptics of the expedition to Iraq were, quite understandably, silent amidst the footage of jubilation as Iraqis
went to the polls. It evinces a callous uncouthness to roll one’s eyes at such vivid expressions of emotion, regardless
of the cause for which propagandists deploy them. (Oddly, though, hawks often do not show the same decorum when confronted
with images of maimed Iraqi civilians and mourning orphans.) But contrary to what the most unreflective supporters of this war—and
the students responsible for the isn’t-voting-great flyers the day after the Iraqi election are certainly among their ranks—would have you
believe, pleasing photos and the mere words “freedom,” “liberty,” and “democracy” are not surrogates for sober judgment. To paraphrase Aldous
Huxley, people do not have liberties bestowed upon them; they have them taken away.

The New York Times informs us of the immediate ramifications of the elections. “In Basra, the second-largest city in Iraq,
where one of Ayatollah Sistani’s closest aides has enormous influence, Shiite religious parties have been transforming the city into an
Islamic fief since the toppling of Mr. Hussein. Militias have driven alcohol sellers off the streets. Women are harassed if
they walk the streets in anything less than head-to-toe black. Conservative judges are invoking Shariah in some courts.” And this,
writ large, is what we can expect from an Iraqi democracy.

Conservatives once knew that healthy societies are effluent from a respect for tradition and realized that liberal societies arise spontaneously.
No more. How else to explain the glibness with which commentators are prattling about the prospects for making a shift
from decades of rule by Iraq’s Sunni minority to a government dominated by the Shiite majority? Some Sunnis are already
grumbling about a nebulous feeling of anxiety behind the unsettling fact that a majority of them did not vote. “The
Shia were determined and encouraged their supporters to vote and to register, and the Sunnis didn’t care that much, either
out of fear or apathy,” observed Adnan Pachachi, a Sunni official from the pre-Saddam years. Even though the gains made
by Shiite Islamic fundamentalists will probably decrease with the tallying of votes from areas inhabited primarily by non-Shiites, the stubborn
religious divisions in this new, old Iraq are such that the naivete of the hawks will be insufficient to compensate.

To insist that the Iraqi election is somehow an endorsement of President Bush’s “vision,” as many in the cult of
the great leader have, is nonsense. Iraqis, like Americans, surely voted for reasons unique to each individual. For those most
invested in the war, however, the purpose of the election had nothing to do with the Iraqis per se so
much as their own egos. These opportunists—who, oddly enough, are the ones most likely to deride feel-good liberalism at home—used
the elections to prop up their own importance. Thus the sanctimony of the congressional Republicans sporting purple fingers during the
State of the Union speech, their shamelessness outstripped only by their vanity.

It is too much to expect this president or his most febrile acolytes to appreciate certain realities they would otherwise
heed. The “reality-based community” is, bizarrely, a category they have apparently outgrown.

Ashish George is a sophomore from Greensboro, NC. Contact him at asgeorge@davidson.edu.

The prospects of future democracy in Iraq

Many around the world are hopeful that last week’s elections in Iraq will usher in a wave of democracy in
that beleaguered nation. Indeed, the greater than expected turnout and enthusiasm on the part of the Iraqi people are encouraging.
Many columnists in the last week, including a few liberal ones, conceded that perhaps President Bush had been right to
invade Iraq and that perhaps the fears and apprehensions, which had previously dominated public discussion, would give way to hope
and optimism. Indeed, many correspondents, pundits, and political observers heralded the elections as proof that democracy was possible in Iraq.

It is very tempting to yield to this optimism, but let’s not be too hasty. There are many forces and
powers working against democracy and liberty in Iraq. The first and most powerful force working against democratization and liberalization is
regrettably Iraq itself. The Shiites, who appear to have done exceedingly well in last week’s elections, are prone to fundamentalism
and have religious ties with Iran. In addition, the Kurdish aspirations for self-government may hurt democratization. Indeed, the Kurdish independence
movement that directly affects Iraq and Turkey could lead to violence or even civil war.

In addition to these ethnic concerns, we must keep in mind that Iraq has not had long-term democratic experience, nor
has it had many aspects of liberalization or constitutionalism. Indeed, Iraqis are not familiar with the kind of political and
social structure that we are trying to institute. Many in the Bush administration have likened the situation in Iraq to
those of Germany and Japan after World War II. But one must bear in mind that both Japan and Germany
had experienced limited democracies prior to the outbreak of war. Iraq did not.

Other major concerns are Iraq’s neighbors. Iraq is an island of burgeoning democracy in a sea of entrenched theocracy and
dictatorship. The influence of nations like Iran, Syria, and Saudi Arabia cannot be underestimated. Moreover, the political and social ramifications
of democracy will threaten the governments of hostile countries in the Middle East and may create tension or conflict. Indeed,
the presence of democracy in Iraq will pit two governmental types against one another in the Middle East: democracy and
authoritarianism.

Do the elections signify democracy’s triumph? Iraq certainly has a long way to go, regardless of whether this first attempt
at instituting democracy...succeeds or not. Conflict may be necessary before democratization can begin. Civil war, regional conflict, or broad secularization
may be required. Generations may have to pass before democracy and liberty can become ways of life for the Iraqi
people. It is unfortunate, but this first attempt will most likely fail. There are too many things working against it.
Matt Hall is a junior history major from Bennington, Vt. Contact him at mthall@davidson.edu.

The inaugural address in context
By JOSEPH ADAMS
Guest Columnist

In George W. Bush’s second inaugural address, the president reaffirmed America’s commitment to the spread of freedom to all corners
of the earth. Citing mankind’s natural longing to be free and the hope that “liberty will come to those who
love it,” President Bush argued that the preservation and expansion of the light of liberty must play a more central
role in American foreign policy. While many commentators praised the address as ranking among the best of the 55 inaugural
addresses in American history, others criticized the speech on two grounds.

First, some critics doubted the need for a presidential speech focusing on freedom. To these critics, America’s commitment to liberty
is so unquestionably strong as to render President Bush’s remarks superfluous. Others criticized the idealism of the speech, mocking the
president’s ambitious vision of a world free from tyranny in the light of the harsh calculations inherent to international politics.

One way of addressing the argument that it was unnecessary for President Bush to reaffirm liberty’s primacy in American politics
is to consider the president’s inaugural address alongside the words of his predecessors. Hardly one decade after Washington took office,
Thomas Jefferson recommitted the nation to the preservation of “the sacred fire of liberty.” In America’s greatest hour of uncertainty,
President Lincoln reaffirmed the nation’s commitment to freedom at Gettysburg, where he urged his fellow citizens to take increased devotion
to liberty in honor of those American soldiers who had given “the last full measure” of their own devotion in
defense of freedom. One hundred years after the Civil War, John F. Kennedy engaged the hearts of a generation by
pledging that the United States would “pay any price [and] bear any burden...in order to assure the survival and the
success of liberty.” Placed alongside these invocations of the power of freedom, President Bush’s inaugural address was itself a thoroughly
American restatement of our nation’s first principles.

Although it is clear that the message of President Bush’s address closely follows his predecessors, there remains the criticism that
the speech cannot be taken seriously on account of its overly optimistic and ambitious tone. If the president’s words are
followed as closely as possible, critics argue, the inaugural address should have triggered an immediate suspension of relations with such
countries as China, Pakistan, and Russia. However, no one expects the United States to ever have the luxury of avoiding
the inescapable calculations of diplomacy. Instead of announcing an immediate radicalization of America’s foreign policy, the central message of President
Bush’s second inaugural address was that our worth as a nation could never be greater than the worth of our
ambition. To his credit, President Bush has set our nation’s ambition high for the century ahead.

Joseph Adams is a junior political science major from Angier, N.C. Contact him at jsadams@davidson.edu.

Asking questions: a conversation on substance-free housing

The following is a transcript of a sub-free student being interviewed by a non-sub-free student.

So what’s it like on sub-free?
Mostly clean, quiet and substance-free.

Are y’all all religious?
A few. We have nerds and athletes as well, and there’s some overlap.

So not everyone joined for religious reasons or because their parents made them?
Nope. I thought college would be a big enough change without having to deal with the party scene in my
living area. I’m all for a good time, but sleep is oh so nice.

But it’s not like we're all drunkards or make a lot of noise; there’s a few nights...
Try 24/7. It’s pretty sweet.

True, but don’t you ever feel isolated?
Yeah, but it’s like any club: you choose to join or not. Taking away that option would isolate our social
choice amongst a sea of peer pressure. Already they don’t let us choose where we live or who we live
with. Let us set some parameters.

But sheltering oneself is self-excluding, no?
Agreed. We can’t remain in our shell forever, and there shouldn’t be sub-free for upperclassmen...and things get way too dicey
Lottery Night with ‘select’ rooms for sub-free.

Yeah, if ever there was a brawl at Davidson...

But don’t you feel restricted or secluded in sub-free?
Sure, but I chose to be sheltered somewhat my first year. I paid good money to be educated academically; and
I can still get my social education down on the Court.

You know, not everyone drinks on the other halls. We’re just more... socially liberal.
That’s fine, but there’s still the gap between the Code of Responsibility and students’ actions; underage drinking and quiet hours
are largely not enforced.

So if RLO enforced the rules more, you wouldn’t mind not having sub-free?
Perhaps, but then you’re fighting general social trends—a battle you can’t win. I think a good compromise is having a
transition period for the first-years via sub-free, and then opening it up sophomore year once we have a solid foundation
of who we are and where we fit in at college.

Don’t you ever get tired of being taunted at all your flickerball games?
People will always stereotype; it’s a small price to pay for increased choice.

Evans McGowan is a senior political science major from Wilmington, DE. Contact him at evmcgowan@davidson.edu.
