10 ~ PERSPECTIVES THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2005

Staff Editorial

Fresh idea for SGA elections

The first four weeks of freshman year can be a whirlwind of adjustments. Everything from the workload to the social
life, the dining experience, and dorm living can be new and unfamiliar. And just as freshmen are getting to know
Davidson and their fellow classmates, they receive an email listing dozens of names, some familiar and others not. Based on
little information on the issues and the candidates, freshmen vote on the six classmates that will represent them as SGA
senators for the next year.

The SGA, including its six newest members listed on page 3, should seize this chance to do better. As an
editorial board composed of sophomores, juniors, and seniors, we feel that at the time we voted for our own freshmen
senators, we did not really know the candidates we were voting for. There were simply too many people to meet
in too little time. Though some have proven terrific, the system for freshmen senators feels like little more than a
popularity contest. Moreover, the elections happen far too soon for candidates to espouse what, if anything, they feel needs to
be added or reformed at Davidson. It is practically impossible to run on substantive issues.

Consequently, freshmen senators should be elected and take office at the beginning of the spring term. We are aware and
regret that this means freshmen will be unrepresented in the SGA for the fall term, technically speaking that is. The
SGA should certainly not forget to represent the class, but perhaps an alternative can be found; an upperclassman senator could
adopt a freshman hall, meet with them, and bring their concerns to the body. Senators could act as more than
representatives, but also as teachers, discussing the ins and outs of Davidson issues with the College community’s newest members.

It is also clear that the freshmen senators would miss out on the SGA’s fall retreat, during which the body
sets goals for the coming year. Without freshmen senators, they might be excluded in setting those priorities. This too can
be easily remedied. Perhaps SGA should have two retreats, one each semester. At the first, they can set both short-term
semester goals and year-long ones. At the beginning of the spring term, the new freshmen senators can join the SGA
in evaluating progress towards those year-long ambitions, and they can set second-semester specific targets as well. This may even improve
SGA’s efficiency, providing the opportunity to assess progress.

The voters deserve the best leaders and minds for the SGA. The candidates deserve time to prove themselves. The system
deserves change.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel

Managing Editor
Mike Giglio

News Editors
Kate Gillespie, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia

Perspectives Editors
Halley Aelion & Matt Bandyk

Arts & Living Editors
Sara Sams & Reid Wildman

Yowl Editors
Bobby Kenner & Jeff Yeakel

Sports Editors
Monica Jamouneau & Pierce Trumbo

Photography Editor
Jessica Hodge

Business Manager
Nick Horton

Advertising & Circulation Managers
Sarah Bogue & Janelle Milanes

Letters to the Editor

Yowl articles no laughing matter

We, the Davidson Women’s Committee, were incredibly offended by last week’s edition of the Yowl (Sept. 7). We’re referring to
the two articles, “Four Score and Seven Girls Ago” and “Freshmen Yet to Add Fifteen,” and to the cartoon “Freshman
Guide to Getting a Drink on First Night Down.” Although we realize that this entire section is meant to be
satirical, we think these articles failed by objectifying women. A clever satirist knows that well-written satire may antagonize or tease
its subject; however, these articles were simply harmful. We didn’t find ourselves giggling over stale Commons food; instead, we were
shocked to find two pages of misogynistic writing in one issue of The Davidsonian. These articles and the entire tone
of this week’s Yowl perpetuate stereotypes and encourage men to act in an inappropriate manner towards women. This time, the
Yowl clearly missed the mark.

This week’s Yowl undermines efforts towards campus change. As a campus, we need to take a stand against sexual assault,
especially when it involves alcohol. These pieces struck us as particularly ironic following President Vagt’s recent comments on sexual assault
and the health advisors’ recent campaign against sexual violence. Both the cartoon and the “Four Score” article objectify women. These
pieces imply that men have power over women and that the goal on First Night Down should be to get
a girl drunk and “hook up” with her. Although we’re not naive and know that hookups do happen on Friday
and Saturday nights, we should not be encouraging guys to take advantage of girls, especially freshmen new to the Davidson
social scene. This article encourages guys to “get their way” and not respect a woman, “unless she threatens to call
the police or RLO.”

The article regarding the “Freshman Fifteen” is also extremely inappropriate and potentially harmful. While the “Freshman Fifteen” is a common
phrase that is thrown around in jest, this article specifically addresses body image issues. The article basically describes “upperclassmen girls”
as fat and alludes to the fact that all Davidson women will eventually...become fat “if they’re not constantly working out.”
College women, especially freshmen, are extremely susceptible to body image concerns, especially on a perfectionist-oriented campus like Davidson. Ultimately, this
article mocks a serious problem that is often overlooked and misunderstood. We know the Yowl is meant to be humorous
and is not to be taken literally. Nevertheless, we simply do not find these pieces funny and were both offended
and saddened that these articles were even approved to be printed. In the past, The Davidsonian has prided itself on
printing a respectable paper, and any good journalist knows the potential impact of a printed article. Perhaps the Yowl simply
stretched the material too thin, trying to fill two pages with satire surrounding First Night Down. Nevertheless, the Yowl left
readers (students, staff, alumni, and parents) with this impression: Davidson women as confused, anorexic, easy bimbos waiting for the next
“hook up.” Gee, thanks.

We are asking that The Davidsonian and the Yowl acknowledge this lapse in judgment and strive to remain a paper
that’s both responsible and respectful to all readers.

Heather Yopp '06 and Lauren Heinze ‘07
Co-Presidents, The Davidson Women’s Committee

Katrina: Natural disaster or national disaster?

True story: My aunt leases a horse in a wealthy area of Maryland. This past week, when she went to
ride, the owner of the farm happened to be at the stable, and they began to chat. The owner of
this farmland is Upper Marlboro “old blood,” with “old money.” He keeps several horses primarily for fox hunting during the
fall when he and several members of his country club, mainly lawyers, judges, and doctors, get together for schmoozing and
riding. All in all, he’s a pleasant man, well-trained in the arts of conversation and diplomacy. Talk between him and
my aunt quickly turned to the horrific situation in the Gulf Coast: typical sentiments of disbelief, sadness, and sympathy were
expressed. As my aunt was getting ready to ride out on the trails, he added one last thought, which expressed
this sentiment: “You know, if I’ve really learned anything from all this news coverage of Louisiana, it’s how ugly Americans
can be. I mean, I know these people have been through hell and back, but they are just so ...
unattractive.” I wonder if he knows just how unattractive that statement made him. The audacity of this man to ridicule
thousands of victims whose lives have been turned upside down by a natural disaster of almost unprecedented magnitude is unbelievable.
The statement alone is a slap in the face to anyone with any amount of compassion.

In this situation, however, there is even more significance to the callousness of the words of this pampered and sheltered
upper-class “gentleman.” Anyone who has been following news of Hurricane Katrina in the newspapers knows that the unbelievable physical devastation
of our country is not the only outrage; neither is the inefficiency and lethal slowness of the government’s response to
those in need. The fact that those left in the worst conditions without food, water, or emergency supplies are primarily
poor and black is even more troubling and shocking. This is not to suggest the government is maliciously prioritizing whites
over blacks, but it does seem to be a clear indication that the government has less of a fear of
the repercussions it will face by leaving minorities stranded than it does of the white majority.

Descriptions of areas devastated by the natural disaster are comparable to living conditions in the worst of Third World countries.
In fact, they are so grim one could compare them to the potential consequences of the aftermath of nuclear warfare.
No human being should be left to struggle in conditions such as this. The fact that there are people living
in such filth, and that those people are American citizens, forgotten about because of their socio-economic situation and, arguably, their
race, is unthinkable.

But it is not just the government’s fault. It is the fault of Americans who are either so oblivious to
the reality of inequality that remains in this country or so content with their own way of life they see
no reason to advocate for change. Americans such as the Maryland gentleman I just mentioned, who are either so oblivious
to the reality of inequality that remains in this country or so content with their own way of life they
see no reason to advocate for change that the issue of inequality in America will, in fact, never improve.

It may take a hurricane to render the inequalities still inherent in our culture shockingly clear, but that does not
mean they aren’t all around us all the time. If the majority of us follow the example of merely expressing
contemptuous distaste at the “ugliness” of America without taking action to remedy it, life in America will never be beautiful.
So, by all means, give to the cause; give all that you can! Food, water, blood, medical supplies are all
going to help our fellow Americans. But when the water has receded and our country is physically back on its
feet, let’s not forget the deeper, more permanent problems this natural disaster has revealed. They need to be addressed just
as urgently.

Halley Aelion is a sophomore from Bowie, Md. and co-editor of the Perspectives section. Contact her at haaelion@davidson.edu
