16 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2005

By PIERCE TRUMBO
Staff Writer

The chant started up as the final seconds wound down against UNC-Greensboro on Saturday night. “This is our house. This is our house.” It wasn’t a surprise that Davidson was on its way to another conference victory, this time over the North Division co-leader, but the context of the cheer was strange. Davidson was playing at Fleming Gymnasium in Greensboro, not Belk Arena.

Last season the Wildcats struggled mightily on the road, as they fell to an early 3-5 record in league play by going a winless 0-5 away from Belk Arena in their first five tries. The ’Cats were within a possession of the lead in the final minute of each of those losses, but they were unable to get a road win until Feb. 3 at The Citadel. Since that Feb. 3, 2004 victory, though, Davidson has gone 20-0 in regular season SoCon play, including 9-0 away from Davidson. The Wildcats have won in every manner on the road since last year, including last-second thrillers against Appalachian State and Wofford and easy victories over Georgia Southern and Western Carolina. But in the end, the Wildcats have put up a win each time.

This week was no different, as the Wildcats earned victories on the road against UNC-G and Wofford. First, Davidson earned its 10th-straight victory with a 78-69 win over UNC-G last Saturday night. In the process, Davidson ended UNC-G’s 11-game winning streak on its home floor. The ’Cats began the game with an 8-0 run that included a lay-up by Kenny Grant ’06 and three-pointers by Brendan Winters ’06 and Jason Morton ’06. Five turnovers in less than five minutes, however, enabled the Spartans to go on a 14-2 run of their own and take a 14-10 lead with just over 11 minutes to go in the half. Davidson fought to a 20-20 tie at the 7:49 mark, and the teams then traded leads back-and-forth before intermission. Two free throws by Grant in the closing seconds gave Davidson a 31-28 lead at the half.

Davidson again opened up well in the second half, as threes by Winters and Logan Kosmalski ’05 and a pair of lay-ups by Winters and Grant gave the ’Cats a 43-34 lead at the 15:30 mark. Davidson worked to extend the advantage and led by as many as 14 with just over six minutes to play after two lay-ups by Grant in just 37 seconds. From there, the Spartans never got closer than seven, and Davidson finished the game with a 78-69 victory. The difference between the halves was evident, as the ’Cats shot just 37.9 percent from the field in the first half, compared to the 55.2 percent they shot in the second half. UNC-G experienced the reverse phenomenon, as the Spartans shot 46.2 percent in the first half and only 5

Photo by Dorsett Clark
Grant ’06 scored a career-high 21 at Greensboro.

The Meno Effect: Boris electrifies the Belk Arena crowd

By WALKER SAIK
Senior Staff Writer

Boris Meno ’08 is to Wildcat basketball as thefacebook.com is to college communities. They’re both brand new, damn good, and at least one of them is 6’8”. — Yeah, that’s right,Boris is the freshman from Paris ripping up basketball opponents. True, he’s not playing a ton, averaging just 6.9 minutes per game. When he’s in there, though, the crowd erupts with every play. Perhaps that’s because he is rebounding at a faster rate than anyone on the team and has nearly twice as many blocked shots, nine, as the next-best, despite playing just a fraction of the time. Then there was that time that he came into the game and immediately stuffed the shooter on two consecutive attempts, nearly causing Belk Arena to burst its top. Or when he dunked twice against The Citadel and actually had coach Bob McKillop draw up an alley-oop play for him. It didn’t work, but the fact that he tried says a lot.

Okay, let’s rewind. To give you a little background, the ever-friendly Boris was born in the Congo and moved to Paris when he was five. France is where he grew up, started playing ball, and picked up his killer French linguistics. So how’d we get this guy? Well, thank McKillop’s killer recruiting tactics and a little bit of luck. “Davidson was the first school to recruit me from France. They kind of found me,” said Boris. “I was playing on the prospect team, and a player on the pro team was a Davidson alum.” From there, McKillop got in contact with Boris, went up to visit him while he was a junior in high school, and presented him with two options. Boris could finish up school in France and then come to Davidson, or he could come to the U.S. for his senior year of high school and get used to speaking English, living away from home, and playing basketball in the States. The choice? Well, let’s just say those tasty chocolate croissants were a thing of his past. “I thought I’d have a better chance for basketball and academics [by playing in the U.S.], because in France, it’s not easy to play basketball at a high level and stay in school,” said the 215 lb. forward. “And I didn’t want to stop either.”

The transition for Boris into the U.S., however, was a tough one. “The toughest thing was the language barrier. I felt like I couldn’t understand anything in class, and understanding my teammates was really hard,” he said. “A lot of the time I thought about quitting and going home, but my mom kept telling me it was the best thing for me.” Another difference he’s noticed over here is how sports are ingrained in the education system.

Player of the Week
Jessica Mitchell ’07
Basketball
Hometown: Wilkesboro, N.C.
Major: Undeclared

Against league-leader Chattanooga, Mitchell went 9-15 from the floor (60 percent) and scored a career-high 22 points. Though Davidson ultimately fell to the Mocs, Mitchell led a late-game rally with two three-pointers in the final minute.

Play of the Week
Matt Pendle ’08 pins Davidson record.

It didn’t take long for Pendle, the New Jersey grappler with the unorthodox style, to tie the Davidson single-season record with his 13th pin. Wrestling at home against Chris Hardy of VMI, Pendle needed only four minutes and 24 seconds to stamp Hardy’s back to the mat. Though the pin put Davidson up 12-6 in the dual, the Wildcats eventually fell to VMI.