4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Students on the 2004 trip to Peru were able to immerse themselves in Peru, from page 1

Two of the courses will be focused on the Spanish language, with several levels of proficiency offered. Since the program demands no language prerequisite, beginner students can use these courses to practice conversation with two different professors. A third course will be taught by a Peruvian professor in English. For advanced Spanish students, direct enrollment in the university will be considered a means of both enhancing language abilities through firsthand experience and earning additional language credit. The attending Davidson professor will teach the fourth course according to his/her area of academic expertise. As a result, each semester will assume its own unique course load tailored to the professor’s interests and relevancy of subject matter.

“It’s a study abroad where there’s a very strong focus on something other than language,” President Bobby Vagt said. “Because of the way it originated, there will be a strong political and economic focus.”

Spanish majors who participate in the program may earn up to four major credits. “I think it would be such an experience to go to a program in Peru because they have such an indigenous population that still influences life today,” Spanish major Haley Acuff ’06 said, “but being a Spanish major with one of my goals being fluent, I would most likely still pick studying abroad in Sevilla because it really helped me get a solid grasp of my Castilian Spanish.”

Political science professor and co-director of the program Russell Crandall encouraged all students to consider Peru as a study abroad option regardless of their language experience. “Peru is the cradle of Incan civilization, with fascinating history, culture, and cuisine,” Crandall said. “It’s a real opportunity to get away from where most students experience university life in a foreign country.”

In addition to taking classes, students may have the option of conducting internships and participating in Davidson-led travel excursions throughout the semester. In particular, three expected week-long trips to the Andes, coast, and jungle will emphasize the pivotal natural attractions of Peru. A trip to Lima, the capital city, will provide a focused look at politics, culture, and human rights; a trip to Cuzco will lay the foundation for a personalized introduction to Incan civilization amidst the ruins of Machu Picchu; and a foray into the Peruvian Amazon will direct a study of ecology and economic development. The accessibility of Peru to other countries would also facilitate students’ decision to remain after the program’s conclusion in order to pursue independent travel. As for mid-semester travel, Crandall stressed that the Peru program was going to be “fun and fascinating, but also serious—a balance of exposure, language, and work commitment.”

Mangan, Crandall, and Associate Professor of History John Wertheimer are initial volunteers for presiding over the program, but in keeping with the idea of broad course options, faculty members of all departments are welcome to consider going on the trip.

Giving, from page 3

“relief projects at home and abroad,” says Brown. “It is a big party that has happened in Chambers Gallery each of the past two years and has been co-sponsored by the Adopt-a-Country AIDS Campaign and Warner Hall eating house.” The AIDS Ball raised $10,800 last spring and close to $14,000 in 2004.

Generally, Patterson Court organizations organize more fundraisers than UCA, Davidson’s umbrella organization for community service. UCA’s major fundraising event is the Souper Bowl, which is held in the spring and raises money to fix houses with Habitat for Humanity. “[Patterson Court] does more fundraising for causes, but that doesn’t mean that they don’t do good service as well,” Buechler said. “They are much more philanthropic because of their nature, their national status. They embrace causes. Connor does Bosom Buddies for breast cancer, for example.”

Brown hopes that recent procedural changes in the philanthropic process at Davidson will help students to realize their goals more efficiently. “When we..."Changed out policy... we were concerned about a couple of different things,” Brown said. “One was to help students plan out these activities carefully and make sure that people weren’t bumping into each other. We had very similar fundraising projects happening at the same time, close to each other.”

Student groups now have to apply before holding fundraisers. The application process involves outlining a description of the project for the Student Activities Center and acquiring various faculty signatures. Brown further requires that students file revenue/expense statements within seven days of completing their projects so that the Student Activities Center can ensure that the money is going where it is supposed to go.

It is expected that around 14 to 16 students will choose to study abroad in Peru during its initial run. The idea for the program originated in 2001-2002, when Davidson considered doing a joint program in Santiago, Chile with Wake Forest University. “That [the Santiago program] didn’t work out, but we kept the idea in mind and just waited until the right city, country, and program model came together,” Crandall said. “Jane Mangan’s arrival in the history department last year brought added enthusiasm to the issue. Both Jane and I are ‘Andeanists,’ so that’s a good reason why we chose Peru.”

The anticipated expansion of Davidson’s study abroad program has brought about questions concerning student participation in programs. There are currently four locations of study offered during the academic year. Davidson offers full-year study in Wurzburg, Germany, and Tours, France, while the Classics program is offered odd-numbered springs and the India program takes place even-numbered falls. Study Abroad Coordinator Carolyn Ortmayer confirmed that, while 372 students chose to study abroad last year, most of these students relied on other schools for their preferred course of study. “About 200 Davidson students participate in non-Davidson programs per year,” Ortmayer said.

Assistant Professor of French Leon Sachs, who served as resident director of Davidson in Tours during 2004-2005, credits a new location with potentially influencing students to look more closely at the entire program as a worthwhile endeavor. “I think if you go abroad, it will enrich your experience at Davidson after your return,” Sachs said.

Before it can be confirmed as a new study abroad option, the Peru program must be approved by the International Education committee, which is made up of students and faculty, and additional committees formed through the college.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2005

The changes also keep students from being bombarded with several fundraising requests at one time. “We tried to manage the front door of the Union so that we now limit that space so that no more than two fundraising projects can be there at a time,” Brown said. “We had gotten to a place where we had too many groups asking for money.”

Buechler and the Community Service Office have been trying to regulate student philanthropic efforts so they do not overlap. “What we’ve done with [William Brown’s] office is just try and get communication happening between the different organizations on campus,” Buechler said. “We now limit space so that no more than two fundraising projects can be there at a time. We had gotten to a place where we had too many groups asking for money.” --William Brown, Director of the Union and Student Activities

To make sure Katrina relief efforts do not compete with each other, the Community Service Office has been holding weekly meetings with the heads of Patterson Court, SGA, and other campus organizations. “Eventually our goal is to have a consistent meeting time between groups,” Buechler said. “We want to act as a hub for all of the community service and philanthropy happening on campus.”

Although student groups are constantly planning fundraisers, direct community service is still more popular on campus. “In my opinion, so many of us love to work directly with the folks to improve their community,” Buechler said. “Working on Habitat, building a house with the folks who are going to live there, feeds a part of your soul. With philanthropy, you don’t get that direct contact... and you need it.”

Live Broad And ious KISS 95.1 10 - Midnight $2 SMIRNOFF $1.50 MILLER LITES