THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2005 15

’Cats split games at Wildcat Classic

By JAMES WILL
Staff Writer

The women’s soccer team, now off to a 2-4 start on the season, spent last weekend at Northwestern University in Evanston, IL, playing in the Wildcat Classic.

Though Davidson began well on Friday, winning the first of two games by shutting out Kent State 3-0, they followed with a loss to host Northwestern on Sunday.

Led by co-captain Kara Koehrn ’06, who scored two early goals against Kent State, and goalkeeper Bevin English ’08, the team put together two well-played halves of soccer, leading to their second win of the season. Jenny Soldano ’06 added Davidson’s third goal at the end of the first half to put the score at 3-0 going into the locker room.

Neither team would score for the remainder of the game. With a career-high 10 saves, the shutout would be English’s first as a Wildcat.

The consistency between halves that the team showed versus Kent State is exactly what coach Greg Ashton wants to see.

“We need to work on getting two consistent halves per game if we want to win. It is very tough to win if you lack consistency,” he said.

It was the first match-up ever for Davidson and Kent State.

The second game of the weekend for Davidson pitted them against tournament host Northwestern on Sunday afternoon. Northwestern, a member of the Big 10 conference, came into the game with a 4-1 record and a lot of talent.

Bring your Davidson ID and receive a FREE Port City Java Iced or Brewed Coffee for the month of September

Pastries * Muffins * Bagels

Free Wireless Internet for All Customers

We're open: Mon-Fri 6 a.m., Weekends 7 a.m. 19930 West Catawba Ave., Cornelius Near McAlister's Deli Exit 28, off I-77 704-896-1900

Play was evenly balanced between the two teams in the first half, and Davidson “played extremely well and tough,” said Ashton.

Though the score was tied entering the second half, the ’Cats were unable to duplicate the strong first half and fell 3-0 to Northwestern, who outshot the ’Cats 15-9. Two of the three goals for NU came from the outside, while a third resulted from a penalty kick halfway through the second period.

The lack of consistency, as well as missing key opportunities to finish, ultimately doomed the Wildcats in this game.

“We didn’t deserve to lose by three the way we played, but Northwestern took advantage of a few key opportunities while we did not. They are a very good team, though, and we battled them to the very end,” Ashton said.

“The Davidson soccer team is constantly improving,” said Koehrn. “I think we realize now that, although we came out of the weekend a bit of a surprising 1-1, we could have definitely been 2-0 in the tournament. The team is pretty excited about having a home game after two weekends away.”

This weekend, Davidson will host a pair of games against UNC-Wilmington on Friday and Colorado College on Sunday.

The women’s cross country team had an excellent showing, including host No. 25 University of Virginia, who won the meet by 40 points. William & Mary finished second with a score of 61, followed by the ’Cats with a score of 81. Richmond rounded out the top four with 90 points.

Co-captain Brenna Burns led the pack for the Wildcats, finishing second overall with a time of 18:03. “We had a lot of good performances, but we need to work on closing the gap between our top finishers and the next few. We’re running with nationally-ranked teams and holding our own, so I’m very pleased,” said coach.

Co-captain Allie Martin also had a strong performance, as she finished fifth overall in the invitational with a time of 18:16.53. Megan Atlas ’08, who was 29th, Caroline Sanker ’09, who finished 31st, and Emily King ’09, who came in 38th, rounded out the top five for the ’Cats.

Davidson will next compete on Oct. 1 for the Lehigh Invitational, in Bethlehem, PA. The next two weeks will be spent resting up and conditioning for the event.

“I think the team will continue to turn in strong performances as the season progresses,” said Martin.

From Soccer, page 16

the net again, and at halftime the score stood at 2-0.

When the ’Cats returned to the pitch, they continued to batter the Campbell keeper with shots. Mac Wilkie ’07 came close to scoring in the box, but he could not finish. Finally, co-captain David Sartorio ’06 made his way through the defense to assist Robby Hoak, who scored his third goal this year.

Allen almost added another a few minutes later, but the ball was recovered by a Camel defender. The ’Cats would not get another chance for the remainder of the game. Davidson will travel to yet another away match to play UCF on Friday and will return home to play Jacksonville on Sunday.

INTERESTED IN WRITING FOR SPORTS? EMAIL MOJAMOUNEAU OR PITRUMBO