16 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Week Ahead

For you sports fans...

DROOKIE'S PICKS OF THE WEEK

I'd like to use my little corner of the sports section this week to say thank you and farewell. I
worry—lying in bed at night, frightened and shivering—that the Davidson sports fans will not know what to watch without my
weekly advice, but there is hope. Next year I'm passing the torch to Pierce Trumbo who will certainly prove to
match and surpass my wisdom, and to give you, the fans, great picks and insider information. For my final issue,
I will leave you with my three wishes for the coming weeks:

1) I wish the Nuggets will crush the Spurs on their way to an NBA Championship.
2) I wish my high school team, the Durango Demons, will finally win the Colorado State Baseball Championship.
3) I wish the executives will come to their senses and take me as a first-round pick in the Draft
(if this doesn't make sense, disregard it).

Best wishes,
Drew Brookie

PS. Thanks Wilson. Good times...

SPORTS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 2005

Three weeks ago, my brother and I were two of the few lucky enough to enter the hallowed ground of
golf in Augusta, GA, and with my apologies to those at Pinehurst, St. Andrews, and Pebble Beach, I am firmly
convinced the small patch of grass and trees three hours south of here is the most beautiful testament to golf
anywhere. I didn’t end up seeing much golf that Thursday afternoon, as rain delayed the starting times until 2 p.m.,
but I didn’t need to see a single shot from the tee box, fairway, or green to be happy that
day. Instead, I wanted only to walk around the course that I had seen on TV so many times but
never as an eye-witness. In the process, I also got to check off another item on the long list of
my life’s to-dos. Hopefully, I can have more moments like my first steps in Augusta National, when it struck me
just how green the grass can truly be. So if I may, here are a few of my humble requests
before I say my final good-bye.

-Break 80. I have played golf for almost 10 years now, and I still need more than just luck to
break 100. It takes me a few gimmies and mulligans to even get close to breaking triple digits, but I
somehow walk out onto the course every day convinced that I have turned the corner with my imaginary swing sessions
inside the friendly confines of Belk 141.

-Hit a game-winning shot. Pick-up ball doesn’t count, and there must be a clock.

-Coach a team to a championship. I worked with a seven and eight-year-old basketball team at the YMCA this winter,
and it was the most fun I’ve had with sports in a long time. Practices were an hour a week,
we didn’t keep score on game day, and the parents were actually civil. Even better, the girls were the best
players on the team. Someday, though, I want to coach a team—YMCA, high school, rec league, or whatever—to a championship.

-Go skydiving.

-Be there when Davidson wins an NCAA tournament game. It’s one thing to make it to the tourney, and I
fully expect to see that shortly, but it’s an entirely different step to put on Cinderella’s slipper. Next season could
be the year, as Davidson returns most of its core from the group that went 16-0 in SoCon play in
2005.

-Run with the bulls in Pamplona. We’ll see if I have the balls to go through with it if the
time ever comes. Only a handful of people have died in the annual Spanish tradition, but statistics get thrown out
the window when a 600 kg bull is barreling its way down the street towards you.

-See a game at Yankee Stadium, Wimbledon, Madison Square Garden, The Horseshoe, and Lambeau Field. I’ve already made it to
Fenway, Wrigley, Augusta, and...

My final chance to bash

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Senior Staff Writer

Over my four years at Davidson College I have called four different abodes home. It all began on 4th Cannon
where we made hall shirts that read, “We’re going to eat your children.” Next was a Patterson Court apartment that
has since been turned into a women’s bathroom. Junior spring I found myself at 213 Armour Street amongst a plethora
of stray cats and a neighbor who assaulted my friend and whose daughter rode around on her tricycle hissing at
people. This year it’s been Flowe, where every other tenant wants to drop me and my roommates from the third
floor balcony. Also during my Davidson residency I have had six different roommates from six different states, with an even
distribution of three above and three below the Grits Line.

So while I'll always be a New England boy at heart, the Southern culture has certainly been forced into my
psyche. I now understand what it really means to be polite, why Southern women always get what they want (that
accent should be classified as some sort of weapon), and that moonshine surprisingly makes your nights less lucid—quite the misnomer
there, fellas. I have pledged my allegiance to several different club sports teams, reaching the...

From the Sideline

...core from the group that went 16-0 in SoCon play in 2005.I say good-bye. Cameron Indoor, but those places are
only the beginning of my odyssey to the most renowned places in sports.

- Run a marathon. I don’t care how fast I run, but only that I can go from start to
finish without breaking into a walk. Bathroom breaks don’t count.
- Win the NCAA office pool. If Carolina’s in, they’re always my pick to win it all. That plan turned
out well this year, but my remaining Final Four picks, Wake Forest, Illinois, and Duke, weren’t enough to put me
over the top in any of my groups. Usually, it’s the other way around when my perennial championship pick bows
out early.
- Hit a baseball. When I was born, I was diagnosed with coloboma-micropthalmia, an eye condition that doctors said would
at best allow me to see only light and dark shadows. I got lucky and beat the odds, but I
am still legally blind with even the best technology around today. I have loved the game of baseball since I
started playing tee-ball at age five, but it passed me by once machine pitch arrived and vision became an issue.
I would love to have the chance to play for real someday, but I will probably have to stick to
the Braves instead.
- Play catch with my own kid. I can’t count how many hours I’ve spent in my front yard over
the years, tossing a baseball or football with my dad until it’s too dark to see. My mom says my
brother and I will only talk with the aid of a ball, and I wouldn’t have it any other way;
there’s something about the rhythmic motion and the pop of the leather that puts me at ease, and I will
cherish the moment when I too can have a kid that begs to hurl the ball around the yard until
the sun goes too far below the horizon.

Since this is the last issue of the year, I’d also like to take the chance to thank Drew, my
co-editor all year, and the only guy that could ensure we’d actually go to print before 4 a.m. on Wednesday
morning. I still can’t even import an article using the Quark software, much less put together the paper on my
own.

Also, I'd like to thank one of my readers in particular, as he called me out around November through an
e-mail to tell me how much he disliked my columns. It hurt to hear his criticism, but he was right;
I was usually just a couple of days behind ESPN.com in this space every week. Hopefully that’s not the case
anymore.

Finally, I’d like to thank my parents, who ensured that I’d have at least two readers every week.

Over time, though, I developed my own style, one that many of you may qualify as egotistical and arrogant. Still,
it’s my own. I have written close to 100 articles and columns, covering everything from LeBron James to Martha Burke,
and TiVo to high school football. Then there was that infamous (read: sophomoric) article explaining why Davidson should switch to
Division III. Oh, and occasionally I’d write about Boston sports.

Of course, there have also been those articles I wanted to write but never did. For instance, I’ve always wanted
to sit down one Sunday with a case of Budweiser and watch an entire NASCAR race. Only then—towards the end
of the race and the end of the case—do I think I’ll understand the sport’s appeal.

But this is finally it, the end of a long and sometimes foggy road. Hard to believe this is my
final opportunity to take cheap shots at Yankees fans or tell you what my friends and I did this past
weekend. I suppose I should offer some sentimental parting line, but like Jerry Maguire, I’m just not built that way.
It’s been a good run, and for that I’ll be forever grateful.

Goodbye Davidsonian, and thank you, Davidson College.
