THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2005 = 11

Bush to blame for hurricane inaction

Many on the left, most famously filmmaker Michael Moore, have used the now-famous footage of President Bush’s five minutes of stunned silence on the morning of September 11, 2001, to paint the president as indecisive and incompetent in the face of a national crisis. For what it’s worth, I think this criticism is largely unfair; it’s hardly unreasonable for a commander-in-chief who has just been told that his country is under attack to need a few minutes to gather his thoughts.

In the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, however, the deer-in-the-headlights expression so visible on the president’s face for a few minutes on 9/11 essentially stayed there for four days, and he and his administration were staggeringly indecisive and incompetent in responding to this new crisis.

The administration’s failure to grasp the seriousness of the situation began to become clear even before Katrina hit, but was even more horrifyingly obvious afterward. For the critical few days after the storm, it simply seemed that no one in the White House understood just how bad the situation was, as President Bush and other top officials—including Vice President Cheney, Secretary of State Rice, and White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card—remained on vacation while New Orleans drowned.

But the administration’s bungling, sadly, did not stop there. For instance, on the evening of September 1, three days after the storm hit, both Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff and then-FEMA director Michael Brown mentioned being unaware that the Ernest N. Morial convention center was filled with evacuees in desperate need of food and water. By this point, some of these evacuees had been in the convention center for over two days, and the New Orleans Times-Picayune had reported on their plight on August 31.

I suppose in some ways it’s hard to blame Brown for his agency’s embarrassingly poor response to the crisis; the simple truth is that the individuals President Bush placed in charge of FEMA were grossly unqualified for their positions. Much has been made of the fact that Brown’s job prior to working at FEMA was with the International Arabian Horse Association (hardly a training ground for emergency management), but it’s also worth noting that his top two deputies at the agency apparently got their posts by virtue of nothing more than having been involved in President Bush’s campaign. This seems to be part of a larger pattern of the president rewarding loyalty over competence, and its disastrous consequences may be felt by the city of New Orleans and its people for years to come.

Also exposed (again) over the past few weeks has been the administration’s continued willingness to put politics above all else—even, apparently, the rebuilding of a destroyed city and the rescuing of its citizens. I’m sure there are some who will take strong exception to this statement. I would respectfully ask them to then explain why a squad of 50 firefighters was dispatched upon arriving in Louisiana on September 2 to stand behind the president for photo ops rather than deliver food and supplies to people in desperate need of them. I would also ask them why we shouldn’t play the “blame game” in response to the disaster, considering that the White House has begun a campaign to shift the blame to Democratic state and local officials—a campaign that included the utterly fictitious claim, made by an anonymous senior administration official, that Louisiana’s governor had failed to declare a state of emergency until days after Katrina hit.

Finally, I would ask them why, as has been reported in both the New York Times and the Washington Post, the president’s choice to head the reconstruction effort is, of all people, his chief political advisor Karl Rove.

Of course, no one is suggesting that President Bush is in any way responsible for the horrific damage inflicted by Katrina. But he is responsible for the federal government’s response to the situation, and the blame for what has been the pathetic inadequacy of that response rests in large part with him.

Joe Reed is a sophomore political science major from Raleigh, N.C. Contact him at joreed@davidson.edu.

Should Katrina kill small government?

Hurricane Katrina’s batteringOf the southern Gulf Coast and New Orleans was an ugly tragedy, but one that has had a beautiful response from Davidson College. The campus is aflurry with numerous charitable efforts to benefit the victims of the disaster. Generosity and kindness were the first reactions for many students and other members of the Davidson community. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said of many commentators in the national media. Their first reaction was not to look for whom to help, but whom to blame. Too bad that most of these accusations missed the real culprit: the dependence on government for disaster relief, which condemned an unknown number of people to die in the chaos following Katrina.

If you believe many of the nation’s newspaper editorial pages, the main culprit for the devastation wrought by Katrina is not the government, but the lack of government. Supposedly, a stigma against public works, social programs, and other government action on the part of elected officials weakened infrastructure and the responsiveness of support agencies, leaving New Orleans vulnerable to disaster. The New York Times announced in a headline that “After Katrina, Big Government is Back in Style.” This is an odd argument because many of these same “big government” proponents turn around and blame the incompetence of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for the weak initial relief response. If the federal government failed so miserably, why should we entrust it with even more responsibility? The answer seems to be that FEMA and other agencies only failed because the “wrong” people were in charge.

Take out incompetent administrators like former FEMA director Michael Brown, and public agencies can run smoothly. This only takes place in an ideal world where government magically does the job it is supposed to do. Too bad that’s not the world we live in. Given the realities of the political world, it’s unlikely that the “right” people will come along to wisely and efficiently run these public works projects. No matter how educated and experienced the bureaucrat, he still lacks an incentive to do his job well because bureaucracies usually tolerate laziness and inefficiency. Bureaucrats only get fired when they make colossal errors, like Brown’s response to Katrina (or lack thereof). After all, this is not the private sector, where customers can punish incompetent businesses by simply not buying from them. In the public sector, the “customers” (the taxpayers) have no choice but to keep on buying.

I’m not suggesting that there should be no government role in New Orleans. The government made an obligation to protect New Orleans, so now it has a duty to provide compensation. But any use of federal aid must be tempered by the knowledge that federal disaster relief programs are responsible, to a large extent, for the nation’s vulnerability to disasters like Katrina. It’s the same principle that holds when your parents come to visit and take you out to dinner. Because someone else is footing the bill, you’re more likely to have the lobster or top sirloin that you would never buy with your own meager income.

FEMA has paid for many free meals. It has offered the residents of New Orleans, as well as many other flood-prone communities, billions of dollars in flood insurance. As a result, only a third of homes in New Orleans had purchased flood insurance. These subsidies encourage residents to build their homes in harm’s way and ignore the consequences. Private insurance should replace federal disaster relief, forcing people in other hurricane-prone areas to pay the full cost of their risky behavior. This would encourage many people to move away and thus reduce the loss of life and property when the next big storm hits. Local government could use modest housing vouchers to help those too poor to afford this transition.

The “big government” alternative is to count on federal and state bureaucrats who have little incentive to do their job well, or on legislators who have failed time and time again. As the people of New Orleans and the rest of the world saw, this is not much of an alternative.

Matt Bandyk is a senior political science major from Tampa, FL, and is co-editor of the Perspectives section. Contact him at mabandyk@davidson.edu.