14 THE DAVIDSONIAN: SPORTS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2005

Southern Conference

Wildcats the team to beat after rolling through SoCon

By ERIK SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

While most Davidson students will spend the next week on sunny beaches and atop snow-capped peaks, the men’s basketball team will travel to Chattanooga for the 84th edition of the Southern Conference tournament. The oldest tournament in the nation will take place at McKenzie Arena, on the campus of UT-Chattanooga. Here’s a close look at the league’s top teams, as well as the potential cinderellas.

The Favorite: Davidson (18-7, 14-0)

It’s hard to pick against the Wildcats this season. Davidson has dominated its Southern Conference opponents en route to clinching the South Division title, the fourth straight year the ’Cats have earned at least a share of a division title. Davidson has won 22 consecutive regular season SoCon games, and the team’s 10-game SoCon road winning streak demonstrates the Wildcats’ potential to run through the field in Chattanooga.

Several Davidson players rank among the conference leaders in various statistical categories. Guard Brendan Winters’ (’06) 16.8 point-per-game average is third-best in the conference, courtesy of point guard Kenny Grant’s (’06) conference-leading 5.24 assists-per-game mark. Additionally, Ian Johnson’s (’06) 55 percent field-goal percentage and Logan Kosmalski’s (’05) 8.4 rebounds-per-game average each rank fourth-best in the conference. The team’s impressive depth gives the ’Cats another advantage over opponents, as evidenced in a recent win over Georgia Southern in which Davidson’s bench outscored the Eagles’ reserve players 38-4. The Wildcats can get it done defensively too, allowing a SoCon-best 65.8 points-per-game against conference opponents. Davidson’s number five ranking in the CollegeInsider.com Mid-Major Top 25 poll exhibits the national attention and respect the ’Cats have gained as a result of their performance this year.

The Contenders:

UT-Chattanooga (16-9, 9-5)

After starting the conference season with four straight wins, the Mocs have failed to put together a winning streak of longer than two games the rest of the way. Still, the current North Division leaders have strung together enough wins to put them in position for a first-round bye. The Mocs will not shoot the lights out, but they do boast one of the conference’s top three defenses, and they out-rebound their opponents by an average of more than 11 boards per game. A 6-1 conference home record makes Chattanooga a threat to ride its home court advantage in the SoCon tournament all the way to the championship.

Georgia Southern (16-11, 9-5)

Georgia Southern easily possesses the most high-powered offense in the SoCon, but its defensive inadequacies have held the team back. The Eagles average nearly 84 points-per-game, but they give up an average of 77 points. With three players ranking in the conference’s top ten for scoring, Georgia Southern has the firepower to shoot its way to the conference title. A likely number two seed and first-round bye will benefit the Eagles, but if they want to win the championship, they will likely have to dispose of a Davidson team that has defeated them twice already this season.

Appalachian State (15-10, 8-6)

After losing four of their first five conference games, the Mountaineers have stormed back into the chase by winning five of their last six against SoCon opponents. ASU will not shut anyone down defensively, but watch out if its high-flying offense kicks into gear. The team’s 37 percent three-point percentage is third-best in the conference, as is their 75 points-per-game average. The Mountaineers boast three players shooting 39 percent or better from three-point range, which ranks all three among the conference’s top ten three-point shooters.

College of Charleston (16-9, 8-6)

Since joining the SoCon for the 1998-99 season, Charleston had won or shared all six South Division titles. Davidson’s 14-0 start to the season brought that streak to an end this year, but will the Cougars get their revenge in the postseason tournament? Offensively and defensively, Charleston ranks in the middle of the pack, and their success this year has largely been at home, where only Davidson has beaten the Cougars. Charleston has proven itself against the lesser teams of the conference this season, but the Cougars’ 1-5 record against the top two teams in each division does not bode well for their chances of reaching the NCAA tournament.

The Pretenders:

Furman (15-11, 8-6)

While its defense is second-best in the conference, Furman’s low-scoring offenselands the team in the middle of the SoCon. A recent overtime win over Georgia Southern should give the Paladins confidence going into the postseason, but their inability to beat the majority of the conference’s top teams spells trouble.

UNC Greensboro (14-11, 7-7)
UNCG raced to the North Division lead with a 6-2 record in its first eight conference games, but losses in five of their last six have brought the Spartans back to earth. A regular-season sweep of Appalachian State demonstrates their potential, but the Spartans’ inconsistency makes a run to the conference championship game unlikely.

Wofford (13-12, 6-8)
A slow start seemed to doom Wofford’s season, but a late-season turnaround in which the Terriers have played everyone, including Davidson, close makes Wofford a dangerous team in the tournament. The Terriers have won their last three games, but a 2-5 SoCon road record suggests their streak will come to an end in Chattanooga.

East Tennessee State (9-16, 4-10)
The Bucs hardly resemble the team that ran over the SoCon last season and nearly upset Cincinnati in the first round of the NCAA tournament. Picked to finish atop the North Division, ETSU currently sits tied for fourth despite Tim Smith’s conference-leading 20.8 scoring average. The Bucs’ tournament chances rest on Smith’s shoulders (which might be a very good place to rest) and the team’s substantial postseason experience, but a defense that allows a conference-worst 78 points-per-game will probably send ETSU packing early this year.

The Longshots:

Elon (6-21, 4-10)
An eight-game losing streak to start the conference season left Elon in the North Division cellar in January, but wins in four of its last six games have given the Phoenix some confidence heading into the postseason. Elon might have the ability to surprise some people when records are wiped clean in the conference tournament. Still, two regular-season losses to Western Carolina, the conference’s worst team, suggest that next week’s trip to Chattanooga will be a short one for Elon.

The Citadel (12-13, 4-10)
Though an early-January win over Georgia Southern bolsters The Citadel’s resume, the Bulldogs’ current eight-game losing streak signals an early exit from the SoCon tournament.

Western Carolina (8-19, 3-11)
The only team to fail to win four games, the Catamounts can rest assured that an early-round departure from the SoCon tournament will not erase the lone highlight of their regular season: a sweep of Elon.

Do we have a chance for an at-large bid to the Dance?
By Wilson McCrory
Sports Editor

The Southern Conference has never received multiple bids to the NCAA tournament, and odds are that trend won’t end this year, even if regular-season conference champ Davidson falls in the conference tournament. When Davidson went 25-5 in the 1995-96 season, including a 14-0 SoCon mark, the Wildcats did not receive an at-large bid to the Big Dance. Instead, Davidson made its second trip to the NIT tournament under coach Bob McKillop, and that is probably where the ’Cats would head if they don’t win the upcoming Southern Conference tournament.

However, since mid-majors are now receiving increased respect and notoriety after the success of teams like Gonzaga, Southern Illinois, and Kent State in recent years, Davidson may have a chance at its first at-large bid in school history. It will take some luck, as Davidson does not have the quality wins and strength of schedule to sport a glittering resume, but the committee does weigh more heavily a team’s work at the end of the season — in this case, a 13-game winning streak. Furthermore, non-conference foes Duke, Charlotte, and Missouri continue to help the Wildcats’ RPI, a main factor in the NCAA selection process. Not many mid-major schools can have a schedule as strong as the Wildcats, so the selection committee will know that they have been tested against some top teams.

According to ESPN Insider, Davidson is ranked 49 in the RPI ratings, which might be good enough for an at-large bid. If Davidson falls short in the conference championship game in Chattanooga, there may still be hope come Selection Sunday. Here’s a look at what the committee will use to judge the ’Cats.

Profile at a Glance:
Record: 18-7
DI Record: 15-7
Non-DI Record: 3-0
SOS: 77
RPI: 49
vs. RPI top 25: 0-2
vs. RPI top 26-50: 0-0
vs. RPI top 51-100: 0-3
vs. RPI top 101-150: 4-2