THE DAVIDSONIAN

Alcohol, continued from page 1

required at Patterson Court social events to ensure student safety and compliance with college regulations. Before the revisions, Court parties
were classified into at least four different categories: registered parties, spontaneous/impromptu, guest-list or date functions, and members-only. Based on these
categories, houses would supply the necessary number of risk management staff. These categories have now condensed to a single party
type with risk management policies based solely on the attendance at the party. One risk manager is now required at
parties of at least 30 individuals, a change from 40 under the old rules. For events attended by at least
60 individuals, organizations must now have two risk managers, one trained student bartender, and an ID checker. A further change
to risk management policies is the requirement of a police officer at all events of at least 80 individuals. The
only exception to the attendance-based policy is events where only members of the Court organization are present. Entirely members-only events
do not require the police officer.

Associate Dean of Students and Director of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano hopes that the attendance-based policy will help clarify the
policies. “Patterson organizations that appear before judicial boards [over violations of the risk management policies] often express confusion at the
rules,” Marsicano said. “One of our top goals was to design a policy that is clear and easy to understand.”

Adam Sperduto ’06, current president of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, found the clarification encouraging. “One large concern regarding risk management
policy in the past was the complexity of the regulations,” he said. “The new rules aim to simplify the system
and I believe they have.”

Other members of the Patterson Court expressed concern about the financial burden increased regulation of risk management policies will have
on organizations, as well as trouble finding increased numbers of risk managers. Alex Arinsmier ’06, president of Phi Delta Theta
fraternity, said via email, “The student population’s safety should be the first priority, but it appears the targeting of Patterson
Court to increase the number of paid risk managers at Court parties is an unfair assumption, which will lead to
a decrease in the number of parties on the court, and a probable increase in unsupervised alcohol consumption in dorms.”

In response to student concerns about cost last spring, a successful recommendation emerged that allowed organizations to hire risk managers
from within their own ranks. In the past, risk managers were forbidden from being in-house.

Date rape concerns lead to solo cup lids

Patterson Court organizations will also need to provide lids for drinks served at parties. The lids are meant as a
precaution against the introduction of any foreign substances or drugs into the drinks. “I do believe that the lids are
a step in the right direction,” Sperduto said. “We will have to assess the practicality of this solution as the
semester progresses.” Other environmentally-attuned students favored a “just can” approach to the policy. Becky Nolin ’06 said, “I like the
anonymity of the cups, but I favor the ecology of the cans.”

Drug policy revisions

The revisions to the Drug Policy were equally substantive. North Carolina law classifies different drugs according to “schedules.” Formerly, Davidson
College policy treated all schedules of illegal drugs in the same manner, for possession. For the first offense, this included
notification of parents, one year of disciplinary probation, and completion of a drug education program.plinary probation, and participation in a
drug education or treatment program. A second offense resulted in immediate and indefinite suspension from the college. For Schedules I
through V, the option for probation has been eliminated to bring college policy more into line with state law. A
first offense for these drugs will now result in indefinite suspension. An extensive listing of these drugs may be found
in Appendix B of the Davidson College Red Book. “Campus police were concerned about the drug violations because the drugs
are distributed by dangerous people, and they do not want that group on our campus,” Marsicano said. Section VI drugs,
defined as ‘Marijuana, THC, Hashish, Hash Oil,” retain the former punishment.

Room Search Policy

In addition, Residence Life Room Search policies have now been incorporated into the College’s Drug Policy itself. These include the
right of full-time college RLO or Public Safety staff to search any room, without notice, given “reasonable cause” — including
but not limited to drug or weapons searches. The policy makes no provision for the presence of student RLO employees,
like hall counselors, as witnesses or the presence of the residents themselves.

Student Government Association President Ryan Arnold ’06 said, “The [inclusion of] Room Search Policy was not discussed in CCRL,” or
the Council on Campus and Religious Life, an advisory body to the president made up of students, faculty, and staff.
“I’m only assuming it is new because it is in red [in Assistant Dean of Student Life Earnest Jeffries’ email
of the changes to the student body]. I was not aware of the former policy.” Arnold expressed concern that students
would also be unaware of this addition. “Students were not involved in the process of deciding this policy. At a
minimum, a student should be present during a search in order to witness the process,” he said.

The process of policy review

Discussion of the changes will be on SGA’s Thursday agenda, where they will discuss what role, if any, SGA has
regarding the new policies. The changes are a reflection of the college’s policy to update its alcohol and drug rules
every two years. A panel of students, faculty, and administrators drafted the changes and then presented them to the SGA,
CCRL, and Patterson Court Council for revisions and further suggestions last spring. Marsicano served on the committee that developed the
new changes to the alcohol and drug policies. The committee also consisted of students Weston Waxweiler ’05, Jennifer Mickle ’05,
Katherine Hubbard ’05, Christine Higby ’05, and Adam Martin ’06. Dr. Cindy Hauser and Dr. Fred Smith represented the faculty.
The proposed alterations were ultimately submitted to President Bobby Vagt, who decides on any changes to school policy.

“These changes come regularly and come on the recommendations of students and staff,” Vagt said. “I do not see these
as huge policy shifts, but as regular, every couple of years, fine-tuning.”

Managing Editor Mike Giglio and Senior Staff Writer Ben Whigham contributed to this article.
