THE DAVIDSONIAN

Professor Rubie Watson of Harvard University will speak on “Mao: An Impending Crisis?” on January 27 at the Visual Arts
Center. Call (704) 894-2035 for information.

Samantha Kerry of Duke University will speak on “Studying C. elegans: Are Humans Truly Different from Worms?” on January 27
at 4:30 p.m. in Room 146 of the Science Building.

Rusk Lecture
Dr. Hilary Inyang, Duke Energy Distinguished Professor and Director of the Global Institute for Energy and Environmental Systems at the
University of North Carolina-Charlotte, will speak on “Environmental Quality Aspects of Global Sustainable Development” at 7 p.m. on January 27
in the 900 Room of the Union.

Chemistry Lecture
Michael Collins, President and CEO of CEM Corporation, will speak on “The New World of Microwaves” at 2:30 p.m. on
January 28 in Room G10 of the Science Building.

Campus Police Blotter
1/17 Cannon Dormitory
Larceny of Clothing
Person entered a room in Cannon and removed over $500 worth of clothing.

1/20 Patterson Court
Unregistered Party
Officer noticed a large gathering at PIKA. PiKA members stated that they had been trying to get the people to
leave since they had not registered the gathering. Officer assisted them in getting people out.

1/21 Knox Dormitory
Crime Prevention
Two students were found in Knox with a 6mm soft-air BB pistol that had been designed to look like a
real pistol. Police officer advised students that BB guns were not allowed on campus. The weapon has been confiscated until
the student has the opportunity to take it home.

1/21 Belk Dormitory
Trapped Person
Police received a call reporting that a student was stuck in an elevator in Belk. The student was safely removed
without incident.

1/23 Patterson Court
Vandalism
A small pane was found broken outside of the kitchen door at Sigma Phi Epsilon. Nothing was missing or damaged
within the house.

1/23 Martin Court
Intoxicated Pedestrian
Officer observed a male student urinating off of the second-floor balcony in Jamison. The student, who appeared to be heavily
intoxicated, explained to the officer that he had to go to the bathroom.

1/23 Martin Court
Fire
A fire alarm went off when a roll of paper towels was set afire during a registered party in Ryburn.
Police responded to the scene. No damage was reported.

By LYNPIE WHITE
News Writer

As of last Thursday, the Student Health Center reported 15 diagnosed cases of the flu. Due to a nationwide vaccine
shortage, Davidson College was forced to forgo administering the flu vaccine to “well” people this past fall, leaving more people
at risk for the flu. Normally, the Health Center offers a flu vaccine clinic between mid-October and mid-November, and for
the past eight to 10 years has offered 500 to 550 shots. In addition, some students get the shots from
their physician at home. Generally, around a third of the students are protected.

Many other viral upper respiratory illnesses are being reported due to the winter season. The classroom and dormitory settings are
conducive to the spreading of these illnesses, as well. “A lot of people confuse other viral respiratory illnesses and gastrointestinal
illnesses with the flu,” said Health Facility Supervisor Jan Poole. “The flu is a viral respiratory illness, but rather than
a gradual onset there is a rapid onset of chills, fatigue, headache, muscle aches, and a high fever [102-104 degrees],”
she said. Poole said that a dry cough, runny nose, and scratchy throat are also typical symptoms.

The fever and acute symptoms usually decrease within five to six days, but the respiratory symptoms, fatigue, and a decreased
appetite may remain for two weeks or more. A person with the flu may be contagious one to three days
before the start of symptoms and five days after the illness begins. Besides avoiding the classroom setting and close contact
with others, anyone with the flu can help protect others by covering his or her mouth and nose with a
tissue when coughing or sneezing, then promptly disposing of tissues and washing hands.

“When someone at the Health Center has a positive flu test, we are asking for their roommate’s name and ...
[for the names of] anyone else that has had an intimate exposure, boyfriend, girlfriend or anyone they know [who] has
been drinking after them or...

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY26, 2005

Flu spreads through school
Vaccine shortage leads to increased susceptibility

"Otherwise had a very close exposure within the last day or two. We then try to contact those persons and
offer them a prescription for seven days worth of a medication that can help keep them from getting the flu,”
Poole said.

In addition to the prescription, there are other precautions that are beneficial in staying healthy. These precautions include frequent hand-washing
or the use of hand sanitizers. Viruses can remain active for several hours on inanimate objects that many people come
in contact with, such as doorknobs or telephones. Healthy behavior, such as getting adequate sleep and eating well, are helpful
in warding off sickness. Finally, an obvious way of avoiding the flu is to stay away from people who are
coughing, sneezing, or are visibly ill.

“Dean Shandley did let the professors know via e-mail Tuesday morning that the health center is seeing flu cases and
that students with the flu have been told not to attend class as long as they are running a fever,”
Poole said. Dean Shandley also let faculty know that the flu can leave its victim fatigued for a week or
two even after the acute illness subsides.

Washing one’s hands will help reduce the chances of getting the flu.

CoHo, continued from page 1

Project, such as Connor’s Breast Cancer Dinner or Sigma Phi Epsilon’s Turkey Trot, which will get both the house and
the campus excited. Stereotypes have also hurt the image of the eating house.

“I believe that one of our biggest problems has been our image. Ever since I joined, there have been some
common misconceptions about CoHo. It has been seen through an extremely lame stereotype,” said CoHo member John Geer ’05.

“CoHo has a certain reputation, and that deters people,” said Kristen Kavanagh ’06. “We offer something unique to the court.
The administration should be aware of that. The college works hard to provide something for everyone... CoHo provides another option.
It would not be good if we went under.”

Although CoHo contends that it will be staying at Davidson next semester, the administration’s response towards the financial and social
problems of the eating house has been mixed. Last semester, conflict arose over the presence of a box on the
women’s court selection form that said, “I want to join ONLY an all-women’s eating house.” CoHo asked the administration to
remove the option from the form with the belief that the presence of that choice singled the eating house out
among the others; the administration refused.

“It is my understanding that the box was placed on the Court Selection forms because the committee did not want
to force anyone into a co-ed eating house. We are not sure of any statistics on how many girls actually
check that box, but we do often wonder if it may have an effect on our luck in the lottery
system,” Groves said.

Former CoHo president Bekah Diehl ’05 and Patterson Court Advisor Joy Hamm refused to comment on the option, but Hamm
said that Patterson Court backs CoHo’s efforts to remain on campus. “We are not trying to close the door on
CoHo; its membership at Davidson is very valuable and its presence adds a different aspect to Patterson Court,” Hamm said.
“We want to support them, and we have talked about strategies, trying to find ways in which to improve their
situation, but it must be mostly an internal correction.”

According to President Bobby Vagt, “The issue here is not money... as difficult as it is for us to take,
no one wants to join a co-ed eating house. At this moment, that is not the experience people are looking
for,” he said.

Although she inherited many difficulties as the new president, Groves refuses to give up. “A big part of our plan
is to truly define what CoHo is and let people know it,” she said. “I think we are on the
right path to figuring out where we want to take it from here. It will take a lot of work
and a ton of determination, but I know that CoHo will persevere. We want to be the co-ed house that
survives.”

CoHo currently has 22 members, including three freshmen. 11 of its members are seniors.
