12 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2005

WEEK IN REVIEW

TRUMBO’S PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat Game of the Week
Saturday at 7:00 p.m.
Football vs. Lenoir-Rhyne

Behind the impressive performances of cornerback Patrick Fitzgerald ’08, Jonathon Hubbard ’07, and QB Ryan Alexander ’08, football looked solid
against GC. Now comes the next test. The ’Cats will be looking for an encore presentation against a team that
beat them last year 26-3.

Outside the Den
College Football
Saturday at 8:00 p.m.
Tennessee at Florida

Perhaps I should mix it up a little and pick a baseball game, but Tennessee-Florida is yet another match-up between
top-ten teams which promises to extend an already exciting rivalry. After our own game versus Lenoir-Rhyne, my advice would be
to find a TV and catch at least part of this one. My pick, of course, as a FSU fan
is Tennessee.

By Monica JAMOUNEAU
Sports Editor

I’ve previously stated that I don’t care when professional athletes act like idiots. Let me amend that: I don’t care
when they act like idiots and don’t mess with my team’s record. This isn’t the NHL, Jeremiah Trotter, and you
should be ashamed of yourself. It’s because of you that I will be getting that hour-long call from my brother,
bemoaning his Eagles, cursing the NFC, and praising Andy Reid for his ridiculously opportune time out in the fourth quarter
of Monday’s upset. The time out that couldn’t save Philadelphia from itself. Even David Akers, who is 82.4 percent in
his career, went one for three. At least it’s only Week One.

To explain my frustration to those who may have not witnessed the pain and suffering that was Monday Night Football
this week, two players, Jeremiah Trotter for the Eagles and Kevin Mathis for the Falcons, had some pre-game fisticuffs that
ended in ejection from the game. Trotter’s absence from his starting middle linebacker position cost the Eagles the win; Mathis’
absence couldn’t have meant less. According to Trotter, “[Mathis] threw a punch first. When he threw a punch, I tried
to defend myself. I tried to grab his facemask. I did get ahold of it. I guess the ref thought
that was a punch. He tossed us both.” Oh, so you were just trying to defend yourself. Sure. And the
fact that the Eagles danced on the Falcons’ image in the center of the field a few minutes later, causing
another semi-fight, that was...

By Ricky DIMON
Staff Writer

Ice-T has told us, “Don’t hate the player, hate the game.” If you watched any of the 2005 U.S. Open,
you probably no longer hate the game of tennis. And there’s no way you hate the player, Andre Agassi. In
fact, you probably love him. But if not, maybe you will after reading this.

Many in the United States were frustrated with tennis when Andy Roddick got bounced in stunning fashion from the U.S.
Open in the first round—they must have thought 35-year-olds are too old to play tennis. Andre Agassi’s stunning ride to
last Sunday’s U.S. Open final proved otherwise. Agassi delighted the New York City faithful by winning six grueling matches before
bowing out in the championship to Roger Federer, the No. 1 player in the world. At 24, Federer is already
considered one of the best—if not the best—player in the history of the sport. His record this year is an
incomprehensible 71-3. Last week, the Swiss star lost only three sets en route to his second U.S. Open title. One
of those was to the Ageless Wonder himself. Last Sunday, Agassi took the second set from Federer 6-2, before going
down in four sets 6-3, 2-6, 7-6, 6-1.

On his way to the finals, Agassi beat players of ages 28, 26, 20, 26, 25, and 24. To those
removed from the tennis world, the difference between those ages and Agassi’s 35 probably does not seem too significant. Consider,
however, these statistics: Agassi is the oldest U.S. Open finalist since Ken Rosewall appeared in the 1974 title match at
the age of 40. The oldest player—other than Agassi—in the top 10 of the current ATP Tour rankings is 26.Just
self-defense too. What began as trash-talking escalated into a wild, pumped-up, sold-out audience taunting Donovan McNabb and his offense. You
wouldn’t believe how loud that stadium can get, and after a few false starts, you could see that the atmosphere
got to the Eagles. I don’t know who said mental toughness was 90 percent of the game, but he was
awfully wise. The loss was especially painful if you consider that Philly is from the weak NFC, which only contributed
one Super Bowl champion in five years. Said Trotter, “It was the first time I was ever in a situation
like this. It was tough, being in the locker room, not being able to go out there and make some
plays, to try and help my team.” Stop, I’m about to cry. Putting aside Trotter’s eloquence for a moment, I’m
glad he felt that way. I hope that he regrets whatever trash he talked about Mathis’ mother that caused the
fight.

Michael Vick totaled 224 yards, almost 100 more than in the teams’ last matchup. He ran for a touchdown. He
got his revenge, while McNabb and Terrell Owens couldn’t pull off a TD. They may have come together for 112
yards, but as Warrick Dunn said after the game: “The main thing is to win.” If Philadelphia can start playing
as a team (read: TO, Trotter), then they definitely have the ability to make another Super Bowl appearance, and I
won’t have to talk any members of my family down from that slippery ledge of Philly-fan-self-hate.

Agassi is the oldest player in the top 100, and he’s at number six. Have I even mentioned that he
had to go five sets in three consecutive matches with those young guys? What Agassi did last week would be
the equivalent of Julio Franco, the 46-year-old Atlanta Braves’ first baseman, winning MVP of the 2010 NLCS. Agassi nearly pulled
off the improbable last week. The tennis legend’s run last week was proof enough to dismiss the other mistaken idea
that U.S. tennis is nothing without Roddick. As if to further scoff at such a notion, however, Agassi and fellow
American James Blake played one of the best matches the U.S. Open has ever seen in the quarterfinals. Blake, 10
years Agassi’s younger, led by two sets and had broken serve in the third when Agassi began a miracle comeback.
Agassi won the next two sets, and then stared defeat in the face once more when Blake served for the
match at 5-4 in the fifth set. But the wily veteran broke and eventually triumphed in a thrilling tiebreaker. Final
score: the old American over his young compatriot 3-6, 3-6, 6-3, 6-3, 7-6 (8-6).

After Agassi’s dream run finally came to an end two matches later, he was inevitably asked the same question that
he has been asked after practically every tournament since the start of the century: what next? He said, “I’m unsure
about what I’m going to do in a month, let alone a year from now. But as of now, my
intention is to keep working and keep doing what I do.” But what does “doing what I do” mean? As
much as Agassi does on the tennis court, he has done even greater things away from the game. In 1994,
he founded the Andre Agassi Charitable Foundation in his hometown of Las Vegas. Dedicated to improving the lives of children,
the foundation has raised more than $36 million for a variety of projects such as summer camps and a Boys
and Girls Club. In 1997, Agassi opened his own school, known as Agassi Prep. Located in one of the most
economically-depressed and crime-ridden areas of Las Vegas, Agassi Prep is funded completely by the Agassi Foundation. Tuition is free for
300 lucky students selected by a lottery. Says Agassi: “I have been very blessed and have had many opportunities available
to me. Children today face so many obstacles. If I can make a positive impact on at least one child’s
life, then it has all been worthwhile.” You do not have to like tennis to appreciate that.
