THE DAVIDSONIAN _ NEWS. WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2005

First-years dissatisfied with election process

By ALEX GREGOR
Staff Writer

The Student Government Association (SGA) held freshmen elections Monday from 8:30 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., followed by a runoff election
for the top 12 candidates on Tuesday. In retrospect, some of the freshmen candidates have criticized the campaign process.

“I think the election process needs a public speaking element ... the process is too superficial,” Mike Beaucaire ’09 said.

Many students who were not running criticized the election process as well.

“I wish that candidates would make more of an effort to show what policies they support ... I feel like
the candidates are focusing on who can make the coolest posters rather than on who’s the most qualified,” said Kelsey
Formost ’09.

“We've only been here for three weeks, and thus the majority of voters are not well-acquainted with every person running...
When you get down to it, it is a popularity contest.” --Sara Kay Knicely ’09

Other students echoed Formost’s sentiments.

“We've only been here for three weeks, and thus the majority of voters are not well-acquainted with every person running.
It’s hard to have a firm grasp on who will do the best job ... a fair amount of voters
are going to be voting for the people they know. When you get down to it, it is a popularity
contest,” said Sara Kay Knicely ’09.

Campaigning began on September 2, the last day members of the class of 2009 could declare their candidacy for the
SGA’s senatorial elections. Thirty-one freshmen registered as candidates for the six senatorial positions. The top vote-winner becomes class president.

During the brief time leading up to the elections, the candidates “are allowed to do whatever campaigning they want as
long as they don’t exceed the $15 campaign limit and as long as they do not campaign whatsoever in any
of the academic buildings,” said SGA Election Chair Ryan Creighan ’07.

Robbie Squibb ’09 disagreed with the policy of not allowing campaign buttons or word of mouth campaigning in academic buildings.

“Word of mouth campaigning ... is the best way to associate a candidate’s name and face, and restricting it from
the place where freshmen are most likely to see each other does not make much sense,” Squibb said.

Most candidates followed similar methods in campaigning, promoting themselves by word-of-mouth and festooning dormitory hallways and the Alvarez Student Union
with posters. The more brazen candidates decorated bathroom stalls with self-promoting flyers, and a few students even donated their bed
sheets to the electoral cause, flying them out of dorm windows or using them to clothe the columns of Vail
Commons.

“Some were corny, some were clever ... some tasteful, some not so tasteful,” Knicely said.

A number of candidates also created groups for their campaigns and supporters on theFacebook.com, a popular online social network.

“Oh, we ‘facebooked.’ We got 80 members in our group,” said Alex Hunger ’09, campaign manager for Kate Sternstein ’09.

On election day, candidates were permitted to publish a statement of 100 words or less “to promote their campaign or
to include anything they wish to be sent out to the student body,” Creighan said.

Some candidates used their statements to introduce themselves, others to vaunt themselves, and still others to propose ambitious campaign platforms.
Upperclassmen Honor Council and Independent Senator elections were held at this time as well.

Category | Election Results
Freshman Class President
Richmond Blake

Freshmen Senators
Brian Aoyama
Ben Ferguson
Coleman Hubbard
Omar Pickett
Kate Sternstein

Sophomore Honor Council
Kate Denning
Elizabeth Henry
Rob Heppenstall
Matthew Gregory

Community Service Office gets two new leaders

By BRIAN MORAN
Staff Writer

Following the resignation of two of its leaders last spring, Davidson’s Community Service Office has added Stacey Riemer and Kevin
Buechler to its ranks. Riemer will serve as Assistant Dean of Community Service, while Buechler joins Davidson as Director of
Community Service and the Bonner Scholars program.

While both Buechler and Riemer are impressed and pleased with Davidson’s community service program, they see opportunities for improvement and
changes they would like to make in the years ahead. Integration of all service efforts into the one office is
a major goal for the upcoming year.

“We want to create this [office] as a hub for all service,” Buechler said. “Our vision for the next year
is not only to get the word out, but also to present...a unified image of our purpose as community service
broadly defined.” --Stacey Riemer, Assistant Dean of Community Service

Similarly, Riemer plans to reach out to different groups across campus. “Beyond our major programs, we’re a resource to everyone,”
she said.

Buechler also identified the disparity between female and male participation in service as a major problem to address. He said
he hopes to overcome the image of “service as a feminine thing to do.” “Service is about leadership and citizenship,”
Buechler said.

Riemer joined Davidson from Syracuse University, where she was a faculty member of the school’s higher education graduate program as
well as Associate Director of the Center for Public and Community Service. Riemer was attracted to Davidson because of its
size and feel, as well as its attitude toward community service. “I missed the small liberal arts atmosphere,” she said.
Particularly, Riemer was “really struck by the consistency of Davidson doing what it says it does.” She noted that while
many schools often set service positions off to the side, Davidson “walks the service walk.” While here, Riemer will continue
to work towards her doctorate, focusing on the experience of students in paid service-learning programs.

Buechler, who has a bachelor’s degree in history and a graduate degree in humanities, was formerly a teacher of government
and English at Avon Old Farms School in Avon, Connecticut, where he also served as coordinator of community service. “I
found that working with my students in community-based projects was the most fulfilling aspect of my job,” Buechler said. When
he first took over Avon’s community service program, Buechler was faced with a program dominated by students looking to satisfy
their athletic requirement. During his five years as community service coordinator, Buechler was able to elevate voluntary service involvement from
under five percent to over 80 percent.

Buechler eventually decided that a move to higher education would be gratifying. Upon visiting Davidson, he was impressed by the
“friendliness of every person” that he met. “I don’t know how I could have said no,” he said. Buechler is
excited to join a community “committed to leadership and service.” Among the community service office’s strengths he sees are a
“wonderful pool of students” with a “willingness to get involved across the board.” Buechler cited Patterson Court and United Community
Action as particular assets to Davidson’s tradition of service. He noted that the response to the recent disaster surrounding Hurricane
Katrina epitomizes Davidson’s attitude toward service. “People just want to give their time and money,” he said.

Buechler and Riemer are very optimistic about the future of Davidson’s Community Service office. “Our vision for the next year
is not only to get the word out, but also to present a unified image of our purpose as community
service broadly defined,” Riemer said. “I really think there are opportunities here.”

Stacey Riemer is Davidson’s new Assistant Dean of Community Service.

Muchane, continued from page 2

From there, he continued to the University of Tennessee-Knoxville, where he received his master’s degree in planning with a concentration
in spatial information systems in 1990. He stayed at Tennessee until 1999, serving as associate director of university-wide technology and
as an adjunct assistant professor, teaching courses on information systems. According to Muchane, his previous experience in several different branches
of college administration and education provide him with a unique perspective. “Knowing what occurs in the classroom and in fundraising,
for example, gives me a better understanding of college functions,” he said.

When offered the position of an instructional technologist at Davidson in 1999, Muchane leapt at the chance to return to
a small school after having cultivated a “love of the liberal arts tradition” at Warren Wilson. Working as director of
instructional technology, Muchane helped to establish a fund for management and replacement of educational and research computers in the science
departments, introduce Blackboard to Davidson, and establish the Center for Instructional Technology in Chambers.

While immersed in his new position at the college, Muchane also finds time for involvement in the greater Davidson community.
He did not assume his new position until July 12, when he returned from a trip to Kenya he led
with the Davidson College Presbyterian Church Global Missions group, which he co-chairs while also serving as an elder in the
church. When not involved with his many commitments, Muchane enjoys running, singing in the DCPC Chancel Choir, and spending time
with his wife, Mary, who is Director of Grants and Contracts at the college, and his two sons Michael and
Mark.
