THE DAVIDSONIAN - WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2005

By Suzie Eckl
Staff Writer

Davidson, who recently moved up to ninth place in the Soccer Buzz and NCAA/Adidas regional weekly polls, brought home a close 1-0 win against Wofford last Thursday. The Wildcats scored in the first six minutes of the game but were unable to get a second goal to ensure the victory. They would not need it, however, as Wofford failed to put itself on the scoreboard during regulation time.

Kristen Koehrn ’08 netted the only goal for the ’Cats off of a free kick from Jessica Lahre ’07. After a Wofford foul, Lahre sent the ball toward the Terrier goalkeeper, who was unable to handle it. Koehrn followed the kick and touched the ball into the net. The shutout was Bevin English’s (’08) fourth of the season.

After falling behind to UNC-Greensboro 2-0 on Sunday at home, the women’s soccer team rallied for two goals to even the score with just over 15 minutes to play. With this tie, the Wildcats kept their unbeaten streak alive at 11 games. Kara Koehrn ’06 scored both goals to extend her point streak to seven games and her goal streak to six.

The Wildcats, however, failed to impress in the first half of their game. Registering only one shot in the entire period, Davidson let UNC-G get the lead in the 35th minute of play with a goal inside the box. On the play, a Spartan offender beat the Davidson defense and passed to her teammate, who one-touched the ball into the net. The Spartans’ second goal came after the break in the 60th minute. The goal occurred when the Wildcats committed a foul to give UNC-G a direct kick.

Kara Hawkesworth ’07 plays in a game earlier this year. The ’Cats are now 7-0-1 in the SoCon play. According to coach Greg Ashton, “The girls showed a tremendous attitude in the second half,” and they came out strong to put up the two goals necessary to get the game to overtime.

Davidson’s first goal came when Kara Koehrn headed home a corner kick sent by Mel Smith ’09, who got her fifth assist of the season. Koehrn, not yet finished for the night, put in a second and her 16th goal of the season with less than seven minutes left to play in the half. Unassisted, the goal came off of a 22-yard shot after Koehrn beat a Spartan defenseman one-on-one.

Although they were able to secure the two overtime periods, the Wildcats could not finish. Said Ashton, “We looked stronger than them in overtime even though the statistics look pretty even.” In the post-regulation play, the ’Cats put up four shots to the Spartans’ three. Even after a disappointing first half that yielded only one shot, Davidson won the shot contest overall 14-13. In goal for the ’Cats, English recorded five saves on the night in 110 minutes of play.

“There was a lot of emotion this game,” said Ashton. As the game took place on Parents’ Weekend, much of the crowd was made up of parents and family, and it was the team’s Senior Game. Davidson’s record sits at 11-4-2 on the season and 7-0-1 in conference play.

As the season winds down, the Wildcats will be playing hard in the hopes of securing the regular season championship and receiving the number one seed into the conference tournament. The ’Cats play their final home game of the regular season against College of Charleston on Thursday, Oct. 27 at 7 p.m. and will finish their season at Western Carolina on Sunday, Oct. 30 at 2 p.m.

Football has playoff hopes.Dashed yet again

By Mark CLAYTON
Staff Writer

For the first half of its game against Morehead State University last Saturday, Davidson appeared ready to seize the opportunity and to claim their first ever PFL South division title. Morehead State had other plans. The Eagles mounted a second-half comeback through the air and sent the Wildcats home from Jayne Stadium in Morehead, KY, with a 31-13 loss. Morehead State (7-1, 3-0) solidified itself as the South division champion while Davidson’s (3-5, 1-2) chances of postseason play will have to wait another year.

The Eagles jumped on the board early with execution on special teams. Morehead State returned a punt 48 yards to the Davidson nine-yard line. The Wildcat defense tightened up and kept Morehead State out of the end zone, forcing the Eagles to settle for three points. The ’Cats’ first possession resulted in a missed field goal from 23 yards out. Shortly after the failed kick, Davidson defensive lineman Kyle Kinsell ’07 recovered a fumbled center-quarterback exchange, and Davidson was in business on the MSU 27.

The brotherly combination of Ryan Hubbard ’08 and Jonathan Hubbard ’07 proved effective for the ’Cats. Ryan Alexander ’08 connected with Ryan for a 20-yard completion and two plays later Jonathan completed the drive with an 11-yard touchdown run. The PAT was good, and Davidson led 7-3. The remaining first-half action was a defensive struggle with neither team finding any offensive rhythm. The Wildcats carried the 7-3 lead into halftime.

It’s hard to say what changes exactly were made at halftime for the Eagles, but the adjustments proved to be just right. On the first possession of the second half, Morehead State did more than convert a third and ten at the Davidson 41. On the play, it appeared that a Davidson defender fell down in coverage and the Eagles had an easy 41-yard touchdown strike. Morehead State took a 10-7 lead just 1:52 into the third quarter.

“We had a solid defensive game plan and were in tune with what Morehead was going to run, but they kind of gave us a new look in the second half,” said free safety Zach Long ’08. After forcing another Davidson punt, Morehead State picked up right where it left off and went to the air, this time for a 33-yard touchdown pass. The Eagles now led 17-7.

The ’Cats continued to fight and on their next possession drove the ball 81 yards in 10 plays. The key play was a 27-yard pass from Alexander to wideout Brett Dioguardi ’07 for the touchdown. The extra point attempt was blocked, and the ’Cats trailed 17-13. Dioguardi’s six points were the last for Davidson, but Morehead State was not finished scoring. With the Eagles’ third touchdown pass in as many possessions, they took a 24-13 lead in early fourth-quarter action. The Wildcats could not muster up any sustained drives after falling down by 11. Two interceptions hurt the Davidson cause as well.

With a 13-31 loss vs. Morehead State, the ’Cats will stay home again this post-season.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Kara Koehrn’s ('06) goal against Wofford

Kara Koehrn continues her amazing season. With 16 goals to date, her timely play-making has been a big part of women’s soccer’s success this season. Against Wofford, she scored the only goal of the game to give the ‘Cats the win.

Katie Periucci ‘08
Volleyball
Hometown: Bakersfield, California
Major: Undecided

Periucci has had 39 kills and 17 assists in the last two games to help the ‘Cats to a pair of narrow 3-2 wins against Western Carolina and Chattanooga.