THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2005

15

Tennis wins back-to-back 7-0 matches

By Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

The women’s tennis team returned from a three-week hiatus last weekend to take on Liberty and Queens in a Saturday double-header at Knobloch Tennis Center. The long break did not seem to harm the women at all, as they came out strong against Liberty in the morning match and never looked back in coasting to back-to-back 7-0 victories.

The ’Cats took the court at 11 a.m. Saturday morning against Liberty and promptly swept all three doubles matches without losing more than three games in any match. The momentum they gained in the doubles victories gave the Wildcats an edge entering the singles matches, in which all six Davidson women rolled to victory. Led by co-captains Kelly Fillnow ’05 and Meggie Patterson ’05, who won 6-4, 6-3 and 6-1, 6-3, respectively, at the top two spots, the ’Cats did not lose more than three games in each of the remaining four singles matches. Lindsey Powel ’06 capped the strong singles performances with a 6-0, 6-0 victory at number six.

Finishing the morning match in almost two hours gave Davidson time to rest up for the afternoon match against Queens. The Wildcats got off to a quick start once again at 2 p.m., winning all three doubles matches against Queens with a scaled-back line-up that gave the team’s younger players more valuable match experience. The young ’Cats still dominated their opponents by scores of 8-1, 8-0 and 8-2, respectively.

In singles action, Fillnow remained in the top spot and recorded another victory, while the remaining players in the line-up shifted up several positions. Kim Whelan ’08 and Meredith Skeeters ’08 both won easily at positions three and four, while the third standout freshman and normal number three starter, Kelsey Linville ’08, rested after three matches earlier in the day.

Meggie Patterson ’05 won her singles match against Liberty 6-1, 6-3.

The opportunity to give the younger players experience was a valuable one for the team, which was reminded once again of the impressive depth on this year’s roster. “I think it’s the deepest team that we’ve ever had,” said Fillnow. “The three freshmen have already made an immediate impact on the line-up and are progressing at a much faster rate than we had anticipated. They’ve impacted the team through more than just tennis, too. The camaraderie and team chemistry this year have been great.”

The double-header should serve as a warm-up for a tough Thursday match this week at N.C. State. The then-nationally-ranked Wolfpack narrowly defeated the Wildcats at home last season, and N.C. State returns this year ranked 69th in the nation.

“Last year we had a really close match, and we’re looking to come back and beat them this year,” said Patterson. “Unfortunately, it’s an away match, but we’re confident that we can give them a fight.”

from Clinch, page 16

“We were tough on the boards again, and that made a big difference in the outcome of the game,” continued Watts. “Tia Washington ’07 and [Hemerka] were clutch players on both ends of the floor, and Brynn Kelly ’07 is really gaining her confidence as she overcomes an earlier injury.”

Crayton was the only other Wildcat to crack double-digits in scoring with 10 points. Washington led the team on the boards with seven rebounds, and she also tallied a career-best 10 assists. That is also the first double-digit assist performance for the Wildcats this season, and it is even more impressive since Washington committed just one turnover for the game.

Though Elon had the advantage in field-goal percentage, Davidson led in three-point percentage, free-throw percentage, rebounding, assists, turnovers, and steals.

Last night, the Wildcats traveled to Greensboro to face UNCG. Davidson seemingly had the game won in regulation, as the ’Cats led 68-65 with five seconds to play, but the Spartans hit a game-tying three as time expired to force overtime.

In the extra frame, Davidson again held a three-point lead with less than 10 seconds remaining, but again the Spartans nailed a three-pointer in the closing seconds to tie the game.

In the second overtime, Davidson had the chance to tie in the final seconds, but the Wildcats missed a three to fall 90-87 in double overtime.

Davidson will return home to face Wofford on Feb. 19 before hosting Furman in the regular-season finale on Feb. 24.

Photo courtesy College Communications

Co-Captain Kelly Fillnow ’05 said, “I think it’s the deepest team that we’ve ever had.”

Davidson College

February 17, 2005