. ARTS & LIVING THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2005

Speaking up for the artform of spoken word

By SARA SAMS
Arts & Living Editor

“What is slam poetry if it is not in your face, banging words, thrown at rapid speeds with a high infiltration of curse words and derogatory terms?” people often ask me. And I see how any phrase that includes the aggressive descriptor “slam” and is closely associated with teenage angst overflowing on stage might provoke such a definition. But there is an aspect to performance poetry—and to the community of performing poets created by poetry slams—that is lost in this common conception.

Vers Libre Slam Poetry Club, Davidson’s first organization of performance-poet-word-hoarders, aims to “educate, to enlighten, and to promote and celebrate the art of spoken poetry” here on campus. These lofty goals include helping writers perform without leaning too much on vulgarity and maladroit energy.

So what is slam poetry, this spoken word phenomenon? It began roaring in the early 1980s in Chicago, culminating in a style of poetry that, according to its founder Marc Smith (in the recently published “The Spoken Word Revolution”) is “about all styles... about expanding the possibilities of poetry instead of limiting them.”

As a poet, I often cringe in response to performances featured in slam-natured exhibitions (as in, for example, the Def Poetry Jam showings Vers Libre featured in the 900 Room); I can be irritated by the absence of word value and the performer’s oft misplaced emphasis. I identify with those slam poets who have called out themselves the tendency to drift towards angrier, less substantial poems. For example, in “How to Write a Political Poem,” Taylor Mali begins his piece by poking fun at the too many angst-filled political poems: “However it begins, it’s gotta be loud!/ And then it’s gotta get a little bit louder. / Because this is how you write a political poem / and how you deliver it with power.”

Traditional poets do often scorn slam poetry, claiming that they overcome what they lack in substance by loudness. But with all the criticism there is to be found about slam poetry, there is something more involved in the rhythm of carefully crafted words that makes me shiver rather than cringe. A poem can come alive on stage, and a slam poem has limitless possibilities (for poets and audiences alike). Repetition can play a powerful role, rather than one of redundancy, and the response from the audience plugs more vibrancy into the words than a poem on a page might be allowed by the silent, solitary readings of passerby. And all good poems have a performance aspect to them. Any poet that has played with the way words roll off their tongues, with the rhythm for their performances, keeping in mind what it is to read the poem aloud.

I can pop in my “Poetry Speaks” compact disc that features recordings of poets and be blown away by poetry uttered aloud. Darryl Ratcliff ’08, co-founder and co-president of Vers Libre, comments on what it is like to take this rhythmic power and deliver it to an audience. “Once one becomes involved in performing slam poetry, it becomes addictive,” he said. “There is a rush and feeling of excitement as you watch your words register with the audience as each person responds to the poem.”

And one of the most important things about poetry slams is the sense of community created in such intense deliveries of personal poems; Ratcliff likens it to a “call and response” atmosphere. To share a personal poem is always an intimate event. Any soul graced by Wanda Coleman’s reading last Thursday in the 900 Room experienced such an intense event. Her breath-taking performance featured luscious speech that often broke into song. In every lull, the heart-gasps of the audience members were palpable. I shivered.in my seat, recognizing the power of poetry. So do not let the title “slam” dismay you or close any doors to the performance poetry world. There is, on top of vibrancy and a sense of community, much literary loveliness to be found in the art of spoken word. The folks of Vers Libre have tested the waters of performance once already, bringing their words to the talent show hosted by the BSC last month. Now the group is in the process of planning workshops, hoping to “provide a forum for discourse as well as a mutually supportive and positive learning environment” in which members will have the opportunity to develop writing and oral delivery skills. The club’s goals include hosting slam competitions at Davidson and preparing teams for competitions elsewhere.

‘Much Ado’ about a dynamic performance
By Curis CATANESE
Special Contributor

After attending the Saturday night production of Much Ado about Nothing, the culmination of a semester of textual analysis, theatrical interpretation, casting, and rehearsals for Dr. Cynthia Lewis’s Performing Shakespeare class, applause was not enough to signify how much I enjoyed their show. They took a classic comedy and did it complete justice with a performance that caught me by surprise with its bold design and impressive execution.

It is such a pleasant surprise to attend a performance with such natural delivery of the Shakespearean language, dynamic blocking, and deep understanding of the motivations of each individual character. The willing suspension of disbelief came so quickly and the characters each acted so convincingly that it wasn’t until afterwards that I realized how well each actor had been cast in their respective roles.

Some of the modernizations risked coming across as gimmicky—there were substitutions in the script to reference Patterson Court and Fountain Walker, and the delightfully drunken Borachio wore an orange penitentiary jumpsuit and carried a six-pack of Natty—but the interpretation was overall excellent and the little Davidson-isms were a lot of fun.

One of the only things that I could find against this impressive production was the tendency to exaggerate some of the mannerisms and personalities of the characters. Indeed, several of the central figures seemed almost caricatures of themselves. Still, though subtlety in acting was not the play’s strongest characteristic, the outrageous embellishment by the actors was often hilarious and always endearing in its own right. Occasionally traversing almost into the realm of slapstick comedy with a few of the eavesdropping scenes and the bumbling guards wearing “I Love Campus Police” T-shirts, the moments of sincere anger and the inevitable Shakespearean tragic misunderstanding managed to grip the audience with their sincerity and earnest emotion. Claudio and Hero in particular managed to portray their conflicted feelings of love and betrayal superbly.

Both the configuration of the stage itself in the middle of the audience and the movement of the actors as they entered and exited from all corners of the Gallery resulted in an engagement of the audience that was a new and enjoyable experience. As Beatrice hid, eavesdropping from a chair in the middle of the audience, or as Phil Messier ’05 Benedick strutted around the stage, sniveling and boasting in monologue, or as Leonato shook with rage at his daughter’s betrayal, it was impossible not to give the performers your full attention.

I could go through the entire cast, complimenting each and every one of them for far longer than my word limit for this article allows. Hero was radiant and vulnerable; Beatrice sharp as a tack; Don Pedro charmingly smirky; Benedick as snotty as Claudio was sincere; and so on and so on. But what really made the play so fun to watch was seeing the actors enjoying themselves on stage. I took genuine pleasure in watching the production. The honesty and excitement of the cast made the full-length running time of two and a half hours fly by in a rush of beautiful lyricism, cunning interpretation, and artful delivery.