10 Staff Editorial PERSPECTIVES THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2005

Students must play part in Gulf Coast relief

Over a week and a half have passed since Hurricane Katrina first hit the Gulf Coast. The cities affected, as well as the cities where many refugees are now living, face the long-term challenges of providing relief, with the strong possibility that hundreds of thousands of people will remain homeless and unemployed for months. Davidson College is responding to the great need. Opening our doors to students who can no longer attend Louisiana universities was a proactive move, giving some students the chance to regain their scholastic footing. Campus organizations have pooled resources, unifying to make the College’s contribution to the relief effort both broad and deep. The first priority is raising money, followed by getting food and basic goods to the affected areas. With time, Davidson’s efforts will need to shift from the immediate to long term, a role that organizations like Alternative Breaks and Habitat for Humanity can then play. Until then we must do what little we can. Donate money, canned goods, blood, school supplies, or just your time. But don’t put it off. These next few days and weeks are critical.

Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund: The Red Cross Club and the Office of Community Service will have tables in Union collecting donations to the American Red Cross until this Friday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Cash, Cat Cards, and checks will be accepted.

Residence Halls First Aid and Paper Product Drive: While relief organizations need money most, they are taking some other donations. Residence Life is organizing a first aid supply and paper product drive on floors of individual residence halls through Friday. Items include batteries, beverages by the case, first aid supplies, and diapers.

Beads for the Bayou: Patterson Court is organizing “Beads for the Bayou,” a fundraiser for disaster relief efforts. At the football home opener on Saturday, August 10, Mardi Gras beads will be given out to anyone who makes donations.

A cappella Benefit Concert: On Thursday, September 15, all the Delilahs, Generals, and Androgyny will perform in a benefit concert in the Duke Family Performance Hall at 5:45 p.m. Tickets are $3 (or more with donations).

Local / Off-campus Blood Drives: A series of blood drives are scheduled over the course of the next few weeks. The Davidson College Red Cross Club is currently organizing vans to these blood drives.

Charlotte Coliseum Volunteer Assistance: Over 500 evacuees arrived at the Charlotte Coliseum on Monday. Volunteers are needed to register people and distribute supplies and food. Contact the Charlotte Red Cross at 704-378-4641.

The Davidsonian

Editors-in-Chief: Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
Managing Editor: Mike Giglio
News Editors: Kate Gillespie, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editors: Halley Aelion & Matt Bandyk
Arts & Living Editors: Sara Sams & Reid Wildman
Yow! Editors: Bobby Kenner & Jeff Yeakel
Sports Editors: Monica Jamouneau & Pierce Trumbo
Photography Editor: Jessica Hodge
Business Manager: Nick Horton
Advertising & Circulation Managers: Sarah Bogue & Janelle Milanes

It’s time to get ready for First Night fun

You know those three magic words ... the ones that make young men’s blood pump and young women’s hearts race ... words that promise excitement, adventure, mystery, seduction, romance ... need they really be spelled out? No, but here they are anyway, in all their glory: First Night Down.

So maybe these three words aren’t as universally revered as “I love you,” but the weight they carry on our campus is worth some attention. First Night Down means a lot of things: the official start of campus parties, the go-ahead for the freshman class to get to know the upperclassmen in a social sense, and the annual rebirth of Patterson Court in all its glory and debauchery. Is it reasonable for our college to designate one night for all three of these momentous occasions? Or does such a day only provoke overenthusiastic, dangerous partying?

While some may say First Night Down is the worst idea since Davidson’s new alcohol policy, I am one to disagree. Yes, First Night Down does build up hype for a night of partying, and yes, this hype and over-anticipation can have unfortunate results. Such a waiting period, however, also forces students to focus on sober campus living for the first few weeks of classes. It gives us a chance to build a solid “friend foundation” constituted of real, unblemished relationships. For these first weeks, we can meet people in the library, in Chambers, in Commons, without embarrassing memories from the night before or awkward situations created in senior apartments or on the court.

Furthermore, this mandatory waiting period puts all incoming freshmen on the same playing field. Obviously, there are some who have been partying hard since the night before orientation, but for the most part, the freshmen class has been doing what freshmen do best: wandering the halls, keeping their doors open, talking, asking questions, getting acquainted with their new neighbors and new lives. Upperclassmen, haveHave you visited a freshmen hall lately? It’s a whole different world than the ones found in Cannon, Sentelle, or Tomlinson. There’s constant activity, no doors are closed, and everyone’s talking about something. It’s an enviable way of life. And isn’t that the beauty of college? To escape from the claustrophobic, competitive world of high school where parties are “invite only” and only the pretty and popular kids are allowed to sit at certain tables in the cafeteria?

The waiting period before First Night Down creates a utopian world of equality and amiability. I have a strong suspicion that if the court opened the first day of classes and parties were open to freshmen the first day, this type of constructive interaction would not take place. It’s not that the college is babying anyone with the idea of First Night Down; instead, it is a way to build community on sober and coherent terms. Indeed, First Night Down creates a distinct line between coherent campus life and the craziness that can be court life. By differentiating between the two, First Night Down facilitates the creation of a balance between social events and school events all colleges strive to achieve to ensure the success of their students. There is a time to drink from the fountain of knowledge, and a time to drink from a keg, but those times need to be separate and controlled. This notion of separation and control is one that can be found in the essence of First Night Down. Still not convinced? Try it before you knock it. First Night Down may well be one of the best nights of your life or the worst, but either way, it is not to be missed.

Halley Aelion is a sophomore from Bowie, Md. Contact her at haaelion@davidson.edu.

---

First Night Down: Don’t Buy the Hype

Call me an unadventurous, antisocial weirdo (or just a party pooper), but First Night Down is a terrible idea. Hey, I was there last year as a freshman, and it was a blur of bodies, vibration, music, bass all dipped in a pool of sweat—an extreme overload of all the senses. Too much of what usually makes a party fun. Even to sober eyes, it was absolute chaos, mayhem, and pandemonium.

If you thrive on out-of-control bedlam, then, well, I suppose this is your night. But honestly, for slightly unsure freshmen who are still trying to meet people and feel out where they fit into Davidson life, First Night Down is about as good a decision as trying to make a 4.0 at this school. In reality, First Night Down is an invitation to ball up all the nerves and awkwardness, douse them in alcohol, and see what you swim up with. Usually, you end up with a fish you wish you could throw back.

I’m sure there are some stalwart souls who resist the general trend and experience the “night of the year” with a clear head. For the rest of us weak and reckless ones, this night of lust, angst, and frivolity can easily turn into a disaster. Hey, don’t get me wrong, partying can be awesome, but not when other people can take advantage of you and not when you can’t control yourself at all (especially your upchuck reflex). A lot of things will be out of control and unexpected on First Night Down. But some things will be inevitable: campus police will be ready and eagerly awaiting hoards of drunken fiends. Boys, especially upperclassmen, will be ready and eagerly awaiting hoards of freshman girls who won’t quite be able to keep a hold on themselves. What do these things spell out? D-I-S-A-S-T-E-R.

To avoid this classic example of American excess and over-indulgence, Davidson freshmen should be allowed down to the Court as soon as they step onto campus as students. Once college starts, so should all the benefits of being a college student, including going to Court parties. I think it’s safe to say we are all past the point of being babied. Furthermore, if parties were made immediately accessible, a more relaxed air would surround the idea of the Court and freshmen wouldn’t feel like they had a big reputation to live up to on First Night Down. Moderation would reign instead of chaos, and good memories would abound instead of regrets. How about easing into college life rather than plunging in without swimmies? Maybe without the hype of First Night Down there could be more meeting of the minds and not so much exchanging of the gropes. I mean we are intelligent people here. Usually. Seriously.

Carey Baxter is a sophomore English major from Monkton, Md. Contact her at cabaxter@davidson.edu.

---

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor. Please email submissions of less than 250 words to davidsonian@davidson.edu. We reserve the right to edit for content, brevity, and grammar.