Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2005

Ryan Arnold

As your president, I promise to push SGA to the limit. I will always act as a strong student voice
advocating your interests. Some of which include: pushing spring break back, using your whole $7 during Union Meal Plan instead
of being cheated out of $2, renovating sophomore apartments, and expanding CatCard access at local restaurants. Because of my diverse
background in varsity athletics, the Patterson Court, three theatre productions, and Oops the improvisational comedy troupe, I am an open-minded
candidate for the people who knows the people. Finally, I will bring an enthusiastic and fresh attitude towards SGA, and
work to establish more communication between the student body and the student government. Vote Ryan Arnold! A candidate with a
vision!

Christina Boye

As SGA president I will represent the diverse interests and desires of the entire Davidson student not only through academics,
but through social, residential, athletic, extra-curricular, religious, cultural, and political life. To the position of president I will apply the
SGA experience I have acquired as Junior Senator, RLO liaison, and a By-Law committee member. Additionally, I will employ the
dedication, perseverance, leadership, organization, and initiative that I have gained through other leadership positions I have held on campus. This
semester my efforts for SGA were directed towards initiating the utilization of the CAT-TV channels and to investigate an online
lottery system. As president I will commit to see our new goals for the next term come to culmination. Under
my enthusiastic and committed direction, SGA will serve students’ basic residential needs such as printers in the union, a different
spring break time, and housing options. Additionally, my goal as president will also include the incorporation of SGA into all
aspects of students’ lives, so that SGA is an outlet to enrich the experiences of the Davidson student and their
many dreams, goals, passions, and pursuits.

Sam Spencer

I’m Sam Spencer, and I’m running for SGA President because students should be unafraid to be disabled, conservative, gay, black,
Islamic, international, sub-free, Christian, liberal, or in any way different. Because I believe that we embody the liberal arts tradition,
and we aren’t just here to learn from books — we’re here to learn from one another. Because homecoming shouldn’t
be on anyone’s High Holy Days. Because diversity is meaningless while we remain segregated. Because we need a dance professor.
Because we need to stop making rules that hurt Patterson Court. Because SGA needs to sponsor Town Hall forums and
invite students to interact with faculty and speak out on issues. Because I want to empower you so that you
have the ability to pursue anything you care passionately about. Because my campaign promises are worthless unless you trust me
and I involve you in the process. Most of all, I want the honor of serving you because I live
and die with each shot at Wildcat Basketball games, because I eat, sleep, and breathe Davidson, because I have an
unflinching passion for all things Davidson College, and because I’ll bring that same passion to the office of SGA President.

Francois Trappey

In order to have a picture of where an organization is going, you have to know where it has been.
As the only candidate who

---has been dedicated to the improvement of the Davidson community since freshman year, I have a clear vision for the
future of the SGA. My leadership has included Freshman Class President, Independent Senator, and Vice President. I have been involved
in the drafting of the successful cable resolution, the organization of bus trips to basketball games, the extension of the
pass/fail deadline, oversight of April at the Lake, the reevaluation of the ATC process, the elevation of the Diversity Coordinating
Committee to the status of a Board, and the reevaluation of Freshman Orientation programs. As president, I want to continue
working with the administration, and to seek finality with issues such as sub-free housing and the condition of down-hill housing.
I plan on improving SGA accessibility to the student body, increasing communication between campus organizations, expanding computer access in Baker,
adding printers to the Union and library, and defining SGA’s role in student-run television stations. I promise to bring the
same dedicated leadership, creative drive, and success as my tenure as president that I have brought throughout my career in
student government.

SGA VICE PRESIDENT

Bridget Kane

Since I first stepped foot on Davidson’s campus, I have represented our student body in SGA. First as Freshman Class
Senator, next as Warner Hall Representative, and most recently, as Chancellor and member of the Student Executive Council. Last year,
I made the difficult decision to go abroad to London for a semester. This fall, I’ve been lucky enough to
experience first hand the paintings, the monuments, and the cities that I’ve read about for years. Still, even in the
midst of a Chelsea football match, I found myself wondering how SGA’s very first meeting was going that evening. I
was surprised to find that amidst Members of Parliament, I was missing Thursday night meetings. Stepping away for a brief
time only reinforced my commitment to and affection for Davidson. The accomplishments of Katharine Hubbard’s administration are quite impressive, including
increased Vamanos service, class forums, the first SGA newsletter, and new changes to the ever-controversial Union meal plan. I hope
to further improve our campus as your Vice President. In my four semesters on SGA, I have established a good
relationship with the administration, and will continue to work constructively with our faculty and the Trustees. I would like to
establish a CatCard partnership with the new Asian restaurant that replaced Joel’s. Cat-TV is an exciting possibility as well, for
RLO communications, televised SGA meetings, student groups and movies. My passion for student government has drawn me back to it,
and will hopefully convince you to give me the privilege to represent you again.

Ellen Oplinger

It is not just to be an arbiter of your concerns about Davidson that I hope to become your SGA
Vice President, but to help make SGA as an organization a more productive working forum. For the past three years
I have been on the receiving end of SGA legislation and am now seeking to make sure that SGA is
effective in doing its job for us. SGA needs to be put on a track of not just listening to
your concerns about Davidson, but attacking at their foundation the issues that you want to see remedied. It is with
an aim of exercising well-conceived and lasting solutions that I commit myself to working toward the best version of Davidson.
