THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2005

Tournament Preview

Women have to knock off Chattanooga for tourney bid

By WILL BRYAN
Staff Writer

Amidst all of the talk and publicity surrounding the upcoming men’s Southern Conference basketball tournament and the Wildcats’ 14-0 conference start, it is easy to forget that the women’s tournament will be taking place on the same campus and that Davidson has a very good chance to take home the championship. Here is a breakdown of the other teams in the conference, as well as predictions for the tournament outcome.

The Favorite
UT-Chattanooga (21-3, 16-1)

The Mocs’ only conference loss was against Georgia Southern at the beginning of January, which certainly makes them the team to beat. They will also have the home-court advantage, as the tournament is being played on their own floor in McKenzie Arena. The Mocs’ leading scorer is 5’11” Katasha Brown (12.6 ppg), while 6’1” Alex Anderson (1.2 bpg) has been a force inside. Nicole Mattison, despite being a guard, leads the team in rebounding and assists. The Mocs traditionally have an extremely good basketball program, as they have finished atop the standings for the past four years, and Chattanooga is practically a lock for the championship game this year.

The Contenders
Davidson (16-10, 13-6)

With big wins against Furman, College of Charleston and Georgia Southern, the Wildcats are probably the second-best team in the league. They are also the only team in the conference that has lost by less than five points to Chattanooga in the last two months. UNC Greensboro has had Davidson’s number, however, as the Spartans have won both contests against the 'Cats, including a double-overtime thriller last week in Greensboro. Katie Hamilton ’07 (15.6 ppg) continues to be a scoring force for the ’Cats, while Emily Callahan ’05 (12.1 ppg) has given proven leadership to one of the toughest teams in the league. Realistically, the ’Cats are probably the only Southern Conference team capable of dethroning the Mocs from Chattanooga, but anything can happen in a four-day tournament.

Furman (17-8, 12-6)

The Paladins have shown inconsistency lately, as they dropped a home contest to a mediocre Western Carolina team by four. Furman has had strong wins over the likes of Clemson, Georgia Southern and East Tennessee State, and it has split the season series with UNC Greensboro and the College of Charleston. Furman’s losses to Chattanooga and Davidson, however, seem to indicate that this team is not championship material. The team’s hopes may be defined by this week’s clash with Davidson, as the two will fight it out for a second-place finish in the conference in Greenville on Thursday. If they can beat the Wildcats, the Paladins will have a better chance at getting to the championship game.

The Pretenders
UNC Greensboro (13-12, 10-8)

With a split against Furman and a sweep over Davidson, UNC Greensboro would be in the contender category if it wasn’t for its inconsistency. With their most recent overtime loss to ETSU, as well as losses to Western Carolina and College of Charleston, the Spartans have not been able to climb out of the large group of teams that have conference records near the .500 mark. Jasmine Byrd (10.5 ppg) and Kristen Boone (10.3 ppg, 4.4 spg) are emerging as team leaders at the guard positions. Despite their Jekyll-and-Hyde nature, look for the Spartans to be one of many dark horses in this tournament.

College of Charleston (13-12, 10-9)

After a four-game skid that included losses to Appalachian State, Western Carolina and Davidson, the Cougars have won six of their last seven and hope to have enough momentum to upset the league-leading Mocs in their season finale on Saturday.Momentum is very important when it comes to conference tournaments, and despite the Cougars’ record, they are playing like a team that can beat anyone right now. That is a very scary prospect for the higher seeds in quarterfinal and semifinal games.

Western Carolina (13-12, 9-9)
Despite losses to cellar-dwellers Elon and Davidson, Western Carolina can clinch the second seed against Furman. Hamilton ’07 will need to come up big for the ‘Cats. Appalachian State, Western Carolina has put together two victories over Furman to quietly creep into a long list of potential cinderellas. Forward Jennifer Gardner (12.0 ppg, 9.3 rpg) leads an experienced Catamount team that made it to the championship game last season. Ranked second in the league in rebounding, offense, and free-throw percentage, the only question about the Catamounts is which team will show up: the one that lost to Elon, or the one that took Chattanooga to the wire in a four-point loss in January?

Georgia Southern (12-13, 9-9)
Although their record shows them to be right in the middle of the pack, the Eagles have been slipping lately, which is never a good sign going into a tournament format. With recent losses to Furman and Savannah State, this current Eagle team looks like a different crew than the one that beat Chattanooga by eight back in January. The Eagles are led by forward/guard Dana Benemon (10.5 ppg, 6.9 rpg) and forward Nicole Newton (8 ppg, 1 bpg). While Georgia Southern certainly has just as much of a chance as most teams in the conference, the Eagles will need to beat East Tennessee State in their season finale to gain some confidence.

The Longshots
East Tennessee State (10-15, 8-10)
With only two wins in their last eight games, the Bucs have slipped out of the pretender category to become the only longshot with any chance of advancing past the second round of the tournament. With a win over Davidson at the beginning of the season, the Bucs looked like a potential upper-level team, but a string of losses to begin the month of February began to bury ETSU at the bottom of the middle. As a result, the Bucs will enter the SoCon tourney as a low seed, meaning they should depart quickly and silently.

Appalachian State (10-15, 7-11), Elon (4-20, 3-14), Wofford (4-21, 2-16)
Even though all of these teams have had their moments against the stronger squads in the SoCon, they will have to participate in an extra day of play-in games for the honor to compete against the league’s top teams like Chattanooga, Davidson, and Furman. Each of these teams’ glory will be on Wednesday afternoon next week, not Saturday night.

From ’Cats, page 16
Emily Callahan ’05 ended the half on a high note, as she hit a three-pointer that further dampened Wofford’s chances. “I think this win stems from our loss against UNC Greensboro. We jumped out from the start, and that’s not always good. We had to keep playing and relax,” said coach Annette Watts. “We really concentrated on hitting the threes and outside shots. Tia Washington (’07) penetrates very well down the gut and kicks it out. Before the game, we make two goals, and this time they were to win, as always, and to get more free throws.”

Halfway through the second period, the Terriers tried for a rally, but they could not get any closer than 18. Davidson scored eight consecutive points to then put the game away. Davidson will play its last regular-season game against Furman in Belk Arena on Thursday at 7 p.m. “The team is very confident,” said coach Watts. “Their coach believes in all zones.”