8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2005

Hilton’s ‘The Tracks Of’ leaves listeners wanting more

By Bossy DeMuro
Staff Writer

Tyler Hilton of the WB’s teen drama “One Tree Hill” released his first CD, “The Tracks Of,” in late September of 2004.

Hilton’s debut CD features 11 tracks, including “Glad,” which was featured on the show. “When It Comes” was the first single released from this CD.

Hilton, who grew up in Palm Springs, CA, brings together a collection of originally-written tracks recorded by Maverick Records and produced by some big names in the music industry, like Geza X and Paul Fox (who produces for the Wallflowers).

The CD, which so far has (surprisingly) received little attention on the radio and MTV, also has catchy tracks like “The Letter Song,” “Pink And Black,” and “Kiss On Me,” which may be the best song on the CD and has the potential to be a second single. It also has slower tracks (similar to artists like Beck), such as “Insomnia” and “Picture Perfect.”

Interestingly, Hilton’s only listed tour date is February 4. According to Maverick Records, he will be appearing at the Neighborhood Theater in Charlotte.

“The Tracks Of” has somewhat of a country feel to it. Guitar play on several tracks gives the music a country sound, and Hilton’s somewhat one-dimensional voice (and track titles like “Rolling Home”) lends credence to this.

Although this album is catchy and rhythmically pleasing, it seems cloned. All the tracks sound the same, with Hilton on the guitar, and the same accompanying instruments. His somewhat raspy voice never changes from track to track, and he lacks any experimental tracks on the CD.

As mentioned above, Hilton is an actor on the WB’s “One Tree Hill” and uses the show as a plug for his music.

His music career may be directly related to his entertainment business ties from the show.

As a young actor on a teen drama and a musician, Hilton is easily marketable to teenage girls and fans of the show alike.

Unfortunately, Hilton’s music sounds no different from many rock acts of today, and he fails to distinguish himself from many of rock’s common acts.

The start of Hilton’s music career is, itself, somewhat bizarre. Starting in his early teens, Hilton regularly played at coffee houses and other gigs in Palm Springs. Word of mouth soon spread around the area about this promising performer. When he was 18, he called a nationally syndicated radio show to try to get tickets to a concert and ended up performing an original song of his over the air.

The radio station liked his performance and invited him to their Christmas show. From there, Maverick Records heard of his music, and signed him to a record deal.

This opened up his music career, and his CD “The Tracks Of” is his first on the Maverick label.

Overall, it is an impressive debut, highlighted by the fact that Hilton himself wrote all 11 songs. However, his inability to make more than one type of sound and his raspy voice leave questions for the future.

Fans may soon tire of Hilton’s self-similarity time and time again. Although this CD is fairly good, it is nothing special; Hilton fails to distinguish himself and become something exciting and different. In this case, the adage stands: “if you’ve seen one, you’ve seen them all.”

Tyler Hilton
“The Tracks Of”
Maverick Records
★★★

WRITE for Arts.

Email sasams or elburkhead.

Your Dream: “I want to become a doctor.”

The Johns Hopkins Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program prepares college graduates with strong academic records to apply to the best medical schools by giving them the personal attention, the necessary science and math courses, and one-to-one academic advising.

If you or someone you know wants to pursue a career as a doctor, apply during the application period of September 1 to March 1.

For more information, visit www.jhu.edu/postbac or call 410-516-7748.

Your Reality: “I don’t have the required courses for medical school.”

JOHNS HOPKINS
Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program