DAVIDSON COLLEGE  
"THE SOUTH’S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"  
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2005  
First Class U.S. POSTAGE PAID  
PERMIT #1  
Davidson, NC  
VOLUME 96, NUMBER 17  

Arnold, Kane victorious in SGA elections  
By BLEVIN SHELNUTT  
Senior Staff Writer  

Nearly 1,100 students voted in Davidson’s 2005 student government elections and, despite controversy, SGA novice Ryan Arnold '06 overcame three veterans and was elected as the new SGA president. “I had been thinking about running for a while in order to bring new ideas and a fresh attitude to SGA,” Arnold said. “I decided it was time to take a chance and put my money where my mouth was.” Arnold does not take full credit for his victory, however. “I probably couldn’t have done it without the support and encouragement of my roommate Justin, the football team, my fraternity, and all of my other friends.”  

According to Arnold, the biggest issue SGA currently faces is its lack of communication with the general student body. “Students are unaware of what’s going on as well as the opportunity to become involved,” Arnold said. Several students agreed. “I don’t usually know what the SGA is working for until it actually happens,” said Dana Clifford '07. Chuck Ostendorff '06 said, “Davidson’s SGA is a strong program. I’m thankful for the pass/fail deadline extension and cable, but we usually don’t hear about what’s going on and what’s been accomplished until election time.”  

Arnold’s additional objectives include expanding Cat Card access to various restaurants and stores, moving spring break until later in the semester, and pushing for the renovation of the sophomore apartments. “I’m interested in people,” Arnold said. “I want to affect the students and shape the college.”  

Other student leaders expressed excitement about working with Arnold and possibilities for the upcoming year. “This semester will be dedicated to building our Union Board from the ground up — See Election, page 3  

see NEWS, PAGE 2  

Davidson celebrated the Chinese New Year last Wednesday with fireworks over Chambers lawn. This year marks the Year of the Rooster.  

Class of 2009 off to a good start  
ED apps slightly up from last year  
By BEN WHIGHAM  
Senior Staff Writer  

Davidson’s admissions office recently finished with early applications for the class of 2009. 184 applicants were admitted, which nearly matched last year’s total of 186 accepted applicants. Davidson received 440 early decision applications. This number slightly exceeded last year’s total of 418 early decision applications and correlates with a slight jump in overall applications. “We are excited about this fine group of students who love Davidson and made us their clear first choice,” said Senior Associate Dean Wookie Payne. Payne spoke highly of the incoming wave of early decision applicants that were accepted. She specifically praised their diversity. “This group represents a good base for building the class of 2009,” she said. “In this group are musicians, poets, athletes, dancers, artists, scientists, and all kinds of leaders.” Payne anticipates the class of 2009 to have around 460 students. The early decision students will comprise 40 percent of that group, which is a slight increase over last year. Payne’s enthusiasm extends to the rest of the applicant pool that — See Early, page 4  

Skewed survey results hamper sub-free debate  
By KATE GILLESPIE  
Senior Staff Writer  

The results of the Feb. 1 sub-free housing survey reveal that students who have lived in substance-free housing are more inclined to support sub-free housing options thanstudents who have only lived in “regular” housing. The results of the survey are skewed in that 21 percent of the respondents to the survey for students who had lived in sub-free housing have actually never been sub-free. “There was a small problem with people not reading directions carefully enough before taking the survey,” said Associate Dean of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano. “Eight sub-free residents took the regular housing survey and 75 people who have never lived in sub-free housing took the sub-free survey. Still, large enough that the task force found it helpful.”

The committee on sub-free housing will make a recommendation about the future of sub-free housing at Thursday’s SGA meeting. With the input of the SGA, the Counsel on Campus and Religious Life will present a final recommendation to President Bobby Vagt. Overall, 683 students responded to the survey for students who have never lived in sub-free, and 353 people responded to the sub-free survey. Respondents who were not sub-free favored allowing sub-free students to be paired as roommates and dispersed among regular halls over all other options. Thirty-eight percent chose this option, while 22 percent favored keeping the sub-free coed buildings currently offered at Davidson. Other options included having sub-free halls in regular buildings, having sub-free buildings for first-year students and for upperclassmen as demand requires, and placing clusters of sub-free rooms on regular halls.

In the non-sub-free survey, 492 respondents indicated that they chose to live in regular housing because they thought these halls would be more diverse; 485 students also cited their fear that sub-free halls would create an isolated environment.

See Survey, page 5

IN-DEPTH
Was the sub-free survey scientific? - See Dr. Sellers’ analysis, page 5

Laundry service dispels rumors of washing process
By BLEVIN SHELNUTT
Senior Staff Writer

Davidson College is one of the few remaining institutions in the nation that continues to provide laundry service for its students. Although it might be a stretch to say that some come to Davidson only to avoid buying detergent, separating colors, and fighting for available machines, many students find the laundry service an indispensable and integral part of life in the “Davidson Bubble.” Others, however, are hesitant to trust the laundry service with their clothing and are skeptical about its washing methods. For years, rumors have persisted that students’ dirty laundry is boiled in a sweltering pot of water sans detergent, causing that favorite T-shirt or pair of high school jeans to shrink and fade. 

Abbey Eustice ’05 said, “I don’t use the laundry service, because they don’t use detergent. I got it done one time, and it was awful.”

An interview with laundry manager Aaron Jackson sheds some light on the subject. Jackson has been at Davidson for eight years and has managed the laundry service for the past four. “Ever since I have been manager,” Jackson said, “upperclassmen have been telling the underclassmen that we don’t use detergent and boil the clothes. That’s just not the case.” Jackson said that clothes are washed with environmentally-friendly detergents, but fabric softeners and supplementary chemicals are not used as many students are allergic to them. He warns students against including their own.

See Laundry, page 4

A financial employee finishes packaging a student’s clothes.

SPORTS: Diversity? Not in our coaching staff - see page 12

Voices from Juarez - see A&L, PAGE 6