THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES

Trustees’ stand much braver than Belk’s

By JC Boyle
Staff Columnist

The trustees of Davidson College made the right decision when they opened up 20 percent of their board to non-Christians. It was a move that sent the school a step closer toward great diversity and true equality, and it is almost more than one could expect from an institution with a religious affiliation. Unfortunately, it was far more than at least two long-time trustees expected, and so John Belk and Stephen Smith resigned from the board in protest of the 31-5 vote in favor of expanding the governing board’s religious liberty.

The unrestricted aspiration toward diversity is something the college is clearly devoted to. The list of accepted students for the Class of 2009 represents more than 25 countries, and recent scholars’ weekends have been devoted entirely toward attracting more minority students and applicants. As for religious diversity, the Office of Admission and Financial Aid informs prospective students that while Davidson retains ties to the Presbyterian Church and its mission, there are many more religious opportunities on campus. The school has student-run Christian, Jewish, and Muslim organizations, as well as an Interfaith Fellowship. When the Jews and the Hindus and the atheists graduate, they are presumably beset by as many requests for donations to their alma mater as the Christians are. Is it not dishonest and even cruel for Davidson to do this while still refusing to admit non-Christians to the Board of Trustees?

Smith realizes the incredible incongruity inherent in this system, and, according to The Davidsonian, would have voted for a change that allowed non-Christian alumni to become trustees. He resigned because of differences with the procedure, not the philosophy. Belk, however, departed for different reasons, saying, “I think Davidson ought to be a Christian school,” and citing its exclusive Christian governance as “one of the reasons Davidson is special.” Many have followed Belk in arguing that Davidson is a Christian school with a Christian heritage. This is, of course, true, but it also began as a male school with a curriculum of manual labor. John Belk graduated in 1943. Where was he when the school desegregated, went co-ed, stopped requiring chapel, admitted non-Christians to the faculty, and non-Christians to the student body? Why didn’t he stop giving money during any of those changes, which made the school phenomenally different from the one from which he graduated? Why now?

One possible explanation could have been that this is the last straw, a decision that truly meant the end of the Davidson he grew up with. But Belk himself discarded this possibility when he said, according to The Charlotte Observer, that “he has no problem with non-Christians attending the college or teaching there.” For this one event to drive him away from Davidson, which he has strengthened more than any other man and supported more than any other donor, is nothing short of baffling. Besides, to resign now is to do so in protest of a change that is perfectly in line with the message of Davidson’s Statement of Purpose. “The loyalty of the college,” it says, “extends beyond the Christian community to the whole human community and necessarily includes an openness to and respect for the world’s various religious traditions.”

The trustees acted justly, showing great courage, significant independence, and a respect for diversity and culture that goes beyond admirable. By being accepting of other faiths, willing to be as heterogeneous as its student body, and refusing to let money hold it hostage, the Board of Trustees has proved itself worthy of Davidson in a deeply profound way. John Belk may have stood up for his religion, but the other trustees stood firm for all religions and gave renewed emphasis to the college’s increasingly important motto: “Let learning be cherished where liberty has arisen.”

JC Boyle is a freshman classics major from Atlanta, Ga. Contact him at jcboyle@davidson.edu.

Resigning was the selfish thing to do

By James Wells
Staff Columnist

It is a great irony that some of Davidson College’s best ambassadors, our sports teams, now play at facilities named after some of our worst. Two very prominent members of the College’s Board of Trustees, John Belk and Steven Smith, have resigned over the recent change in policy about non-Christians serving as trustees. I must say that I am feeling a little schadenfreude at this very situation. I have never been a fan, to say the least, of the college’s “if we can screw a plaque to it, we'll sell you the naming rights to it” policy. It offends my aesthetic sensibilities, but worse, I feel it sends a bad message. It seems to send the message that if you have enough money to buy the naming rights to a building, then you are worthy of honor. But, as the actions of John Belk and Steven Smith clearly show, having a great amount of money does not mean you have a great amount of character.

My own feelings on the trustee issue have always been mixed. On one hand, if Davidson College is a Presbyterian college why not have it run by Christians? For instance, I went to preschool at a synagogue; was it a terrible injustice that I was forbidden from bringing my favorite food (a ham sandwich) for lunch? Did it make them intolerant that the program was totally run by members of the Jewish faith? Of course not. On the other hand, the way Davidson College deemphasizes (some might say hides, though I feel that’s too strong) their connection to the church in their information for potential students makes me feel like the policy was an outdated holdover from a previous era. After the school scheduled homecoming on the Jewish high holy day last semester (Davidson College Homecoming 2004: Do something you have to atone for!) and reading Rob Spach’s letter of defense to The Davidsonian outlining how the change in policy is actually in line with the tenets of the Presbyterian Church U.S.A., I am much more inclined to side with my second impulse.

Messrs. Smith and Belk are sure of their standpoint and always have been. The Davidsonian may apply the term principled to their resignations, but I would not. These two are used to getting their way, and when they did not in this very public and very important vote, they quit. They did this to publicly embarrass Davidson in order to salve their own bruised egos. For their sakes, I hope their feckless and petty tantrums make them feel better. If they truly thought that this decision would lead to the end of many of Davidson College’s fine traditions, Messrs. Belk and Smith could have stayed on the board and workedto protect them. Instead, they made it clear that their loyalties lie with themselves and not with the school. Now, I support removing their names from our athletic facilities, but I think we can find a place for them on the Union Café menu. Anyone up for a John Belk Chicken Filet or a Steven Smith Turkey Sandwich? James Wells is a sophomore physics major from Montgomery Village, Md. Contact him at jawells@davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 2005

Smoking: healthier than fascism

The most pressing political problem currently facing the U.S. is not necessarily the one that affects the most people or the most visible. It’s the one that encapsulates the stupidest and most repressive impulses of government. And there’s no likelier candidate for that dubious honor than the restrictions on advertising for cigarettes. Congress passed the Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act in 1970, which banned all advertisements for tobacco products on radio and television. All aspects of the war against smoking try to force people to act according to what others think is good for them, but this policy stands out as one that tries to deny people the chance to even think contrary to what some have decreed as their best interests.

In a recent South Park episode, a caricature of anti-smoking activist Rob Reiner harangues, “Smoking is bad! So if we have to be a little extreme to stop it, it’s ok!” That rationalization is precisely how the anti-smoking groups justify the sacrifice of free speech. The targets of the censorship—deathstick-peddling, big tobacco companies—deserve any misfortune that comes their way. The ends justify the means. But if free speech is to be of any meaningful value, we cannot merely protect the speech of the people we like and say to hell with those we don’t. After all, if the people in power don’t like us, we might be the ones who get the muzzle.

The anti-smoking groups portray children as empty vessels ready to be brainwashed by smoking ads, and if their parents won't tell them not to smoke, the government must. But that argument never considers that perhaps parents don’t have an incentive to tell their kids not to smoke because they rely on the government to do their own job for them. Others also have used this “think of the children” appeal in attempts to justify restrictions on movies, video games, and books. How much free speech must we give up in order to shield children from any possible temptation in the outside world?

But it’s not just children these laws are meant to “protect”; they’re meant to prevent anyone from getting the idea to smoke in his or her head. The assumption is that everyone is a child; if they chose to smoke, they’ve chosen wrongly, and now the parent, in this case the government, is going to teach them the way to behave. The anti-smoking activists say that they’re only helping people stop an unhealthy habit. But if someone looked at an ad and decided to smoke, he clearly made that decision of his own free will. If he thought that it would help him to ignore the ad and never smoke, then he would’ve done that in the first place. Those who oppose smoking should try to educate other people about dangers, not try to make decisions for others.

The activists are not as interested in helping others as much as imposing their will onto others. There’s a word for this kind of intolerance. To quote another South Park episode, little Kyle asks his dad, “But isn’t that fascism?” His dad replies, “No, because we don’t call it fascism.”

Matt Bandyk is a junior political science major from Tampa, Fla., and is editor of the Perspectives section. Contact him at mabandyk@davidson.edu.

Don’t let the stress of Davidson get in the way of summer fun

The school year is drawing to a close, summer is only a few weeks away, the skies really are Carolina blue, and the sun does seem to shine brighter. The only things in the way of a long and glorious summer break are exams, which, while a burden, always prove manageable in the end. So why does it feel like stress on Davidson’s campus is skyrocketing as fast as the temperatures?

As a freshman new to this experience, it took a little while for me to figure it out. But now I think I know the secret: summer’s not necessarily an automatic indicator of fun anymore. Yes, summer used to be a time for fun: for swimming and laying out and minimum wage jobs and late nights and later mornings. But now? Summer is the time to get ahead in classes. It is a perfect three-month opportunity to add to your resume. If you are lucky, you get an internship that pays. If you are really lucky you get an internship that pays and lets you be out of doors. That’s another shocker, coming out of the first year of college: summer no longer necessarily takes place outside. It takes place in office buildings and school rooms and big cities. But in a lot of cases, that’s as good as it gets.

I realize this phenomenon is largely a product of the Davidson mentality. Living on a campus of 1600 overachievers, summer plans which include a two-month trek through Ecuador for a better understanding of how the poor of the world live is surprising and admirable, but far from unthinkable. Plans such as these amaze and inspire. Other plans, such as internships in New York City, classes in Spain, and playing sports in international arenas are also in the works for many Davidson students. Admirable ambitions for admirable students.

How does that make those who have decided to take this summer easy look? Like slackers? Like underachievers doomed to fail? Nope. In fact, congratulations to you as well! That’s my reaction. Yes, we have to grow up. Yes, we have to get jobs. Yes, the future is a concern. But why rush the process? Why squander the limited freedom of responsibility we have? Why make everything a competition?

So, as summer approaches, make it your own. You’ve spent ten months here, working hard. So play hard. Do what makes you happy. Be happy for those that have summer plans of epic proportions and those that have summer plans that don’t require getting off the living room couch. Make time this summer to relax. Make time this summer to work. But above all, make summer work for you.

Halley Aelion is a freshman from Bowie, Md., and will be co-editor of the Perspectives section next fall. Contact her at haaelion@davidson.edu.