4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The sophomore apartments have been plagued with problems all year.

Heat; from page 3

Because the problems were the result of the work done over the summer, Director of the Physical Plant David Holthouser
fired the contractor in charge of that work. “I then put our Davidson Physical Plant people to work,” Holthouser said.
“They really care; they love this place and have a vested interest in this school. We are aiming to have
this problem fixed for good. We have been very disappointed because our Physical Plant wants to do everything perfectly.”

Irwin, Akers, and Knox have a history of problems with their heating and air conditioning systems. When these buildings were
built in the early 1980s, a central heating unit was put on each of the four halls in each building.
The system functioned much like one in a personal home would function; all seven rooms on each hall were the
same temperature at all times and there just was one thermostat on the hall.

The system in Irwin, Akers, and Knox was not ideal because students inevitably disagreed about their desired room temperatures. Therefore,
in 1996, Davidson hired a mechanical engineering firm in Charlotte to come in and completely change the way the system
operated. A thermostat was installed in each room and regulation of temperature was done by a simple “voting” system. For
example, if four rooms in Akers needed cool air and three needed heat, the circuit board in the mechanical room,
after receiving this information from the room thermostats, would pump cool air into those four rooms. While cooling these rooms,
the system would not pump any air at all into the other rooms on the hall. After the temperatures of
the cool rooms matched the desired temperatures, the other three rooms would then receive heat. When a room was at
an ideal temperature, a damper in the duct would prevent any air from coming in.

Furthermore, there were two furnace units that controlled each hall. One controlled the front three rooms and the other controlled
the back four rooms. This setup caused problems on a normal basis from 1996 to 2005. “Circuit boards and limit
switches on furnaces failed regularly, primarily because the furnace units had to cycle on and off so rapidly to react
to the individual room demands,” said Holthouser. On a cold night last winter, this issue caused a furnace on one
hall to fail. Since that one furnace controlled half of the rooms on the hall, those rooms were without heat.

Because of the problems last winter, Holthouser decided the system was in desperate need of an overhaul. Last March, a
mechanical engineer from Atlanta came to investigate the system. Then, shortly after graduation, he and another engineer were hired to
do work on the system during the summer. The new plan was to tie the two furnace units together, so
that they could work together to heat or cool all the rooms. On a cold night, if one unit were
to go out, the other would take over, eliminating the problem of last winter. New thermostats were installed in each
room, which communicated with a computer in the chiller plant to regulate room temperatures.

By the end of the summer, the system was thought to be working properly; however, issues started coming up among
residents of the Sophomore Apartments. Last week, the Physical Plant checked each room in the Sophomore Apartments to make sure
the duct was communicating correctly with the computer system. The plant finished this process on September 22.

“I applaud the work of RLO in this challenge for me,” Holthouser said. “Dean Marsicano and the RA staff have
done a fantastic job of communicating and coordinating the problems, which have greatly helped us get to the root of
de-bugging the system. The Physical Plant staff has been working diligently to ironthings out, and I appreciate everyone’s patience.”

RIBS...EAT IN OR TAKE OUT...RIBS

GRILL GOURMET FLAME BROILED ALL-BEEF “JUMBO” HOT DOGS SERVED ON GRIDDLE TOASTED ROLLS, GERMAN BRATS, SWEET ITALIAN SAUSAGE, POLISH KIELBASA
& OUR OWN PORK BAR-B-QUE, BEAR’S BEST “SN8” PHILLY CHEESESTEAKS & CHICKENSTEAKS

9709-B SAM FURR RD - HUNTERSVILLE, NC
I-77 EXIT 25 - RT #73 - "EASY OFF/EASY ON”
Hours: Daily 11AM - 9PM; Closed Sunday
Phone Number: (704) 895-2692
www.bouzzyandbearsgrill.com

---

Sorority, from page 1

posal significant encouragement. “It’s really great to have the eating house members voice their concerns and ask us questions,” White
said, “because it means that they are thinking about what we are saying. They’re not close-minded or rejecting our organization
before they understand what its goals are.”

Eating houses on campus are generally supportive of the effort and have been circulating a petition expressing approval of the
sorority to house members. “The ladies behind the effort were very respectful,” Turner Eating House President Jaimie Matthews ’07 said.
“They spoke to the eating house presidents in advance to be certain that there was no confusion and make it
clear that they were in no way trying to compete against us.”

Indeed, many of the women instrumental in bringing the organization to fruition say that the term “sorority” is misleading. The
structure of the application process for membership to the organization does not entail a rush component. Candidates would apply for
membership through a process based on GPA, merits, references, and service. Young women would then be selected at the national
level by alumni, not locally by members already involved in the organization.

“We wanted to bring an organization to campus that would increase diversity at Patterson Court, not exclude individuals for superficial
reasons,” Charisma Loney ’08 said. “People have enough to worry about at Davidson without having the added pressures of a
sorority rush process,” White said.

The planned sorority seeks to affirm interpersonal relationships through service and social events, including joint projects with the eating houses.
Members of the organization could also hold membership in an eating house simultaneously. “It is important to us that our
organization fosters intellectual culture and fits in with the objectives of Davidson College,” said organizer Cherita Jeffreys ’08.

The process of making such an organization a reality for the Davidson College community is a Herculean undertaking. The women
are currently gathering support by presenting their idea to various campus organizations as well as a signed petition. The organization,
in order to be established, will have to be approved by the Patterson Court Council (PCC), Council on Campus and
Religious Life (CCRL), and finally, President Vagt. “Such a process,” Hamm said, “may take more than one year.”

The colonization of a particular Greek letter organization on Davidson College would also have to go through various channels of
approval. “Don’t attempt this process unless you’re serious,” Moore said, “but we are serious, and passionate about this organization. It
may not happen next year, and we are prepared for that outcome. I’m proud of my school, and I think
this organization could help to make it a better place.”

---

LAKE NORMAN

Quality repair by people who care!

Confused about where to have your vehicle repaired? Lake Norman Auto & Tire Center is your “One Stop Repair Shop.”
We value all our customers and guarantee all work for 14 months or 14,000 miles. Call Lake Norman Auto &
Tire for a "free" consultation on any problem you may have with your vehicle. Lake Norman Auto & Tire offers
a 10% Labor Discount to ALL DAVIDSON Students, Faculty, and Staff! Additionally, we will provide shuttle service back to campus.
Give us a call at 704-892-6590 or email at service@lakenormanauto.com for consultation or to make an appointment!

18705 Statesville Rd
Fax 704-892-6596
