THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2005

Dayton drops Davidson in ’Cats third straight loss
By MARK CLAYTON
Staff Writer

The Dayton Flyers brought their 7-1 record into Richardson Stadium on Saturday and handed Davidson a 45-15 defeat for their third straight loss. Dayton controlled the game and time of possession all day long. The Flyers racked up 510 yards on offense against a fatigued Wildcat defensive unit. Davidson’s offense had very few sustained drives, the special teams did not execute, and the defense could not make enough stops on the day. When those three things happen, it’s going to be a long day at the office.

The first possession of the game was probably Davidson’s best on the day. After receiving the kickoff, quarterback Ryan Alexander ’08 and running back Jonathan Hubbard ’07 took the team on an impressive drive to the Dayton five-yard line. On a third and three, Alexander rolled out and thought he had Brett Dioguardi ’07 open in the corner of the endzone, but a Flyer defender made a break on the ball, intercepted the pass, and the ’Cats came away with nothing. The interception was a key play in the game, and if the ’Cats had come away with points on that drive, it might have been a totally different ballgame.

Dayton got on the board late in the first quarter on a four-yard quarterback keep to take a 7-0 lead. “Dayton has a very well-coached team and executed well in all facets of the game. As a result [of this coaching], they feed off the mistakes of their opponents,” said safety Ricky Childers ’06.

On the ensuing drive, Alexander was again picked off, and the Flyers took over at the Davidson 28-yard line. It took just three plays for the Flyers to capitalize on the turnover with a 20-yard touchdown pass. Dayton now led 14-0.

Following a made field goal by Dayton, Davidson faced a punting situation. The rugby punt used by the ’Cats didn’t work, as the punt was blocked on Davidson’s own 27-yard line. A Flyer defender picked up the bouncing ball and eyed the endzone as no one was in front of him, but punter Kirk Konert ’09 managed to make a tackle at the Davidson seven-yard line. The Flyers tried to slam the door on the ’Cats afternoon from their position just seven yards from the endzone. The Wildcat defense didn’t agree with Dayton’s plans and kept Dayton off the board when a 34-yard field attempt went wide.

The momentum of the game had now shifted towards the ’Cats. The missed field goal was the first good thing that had happened for them all day, but this only lasted for a moment. Davidson went three-and-out and had to punt again on the next possession. Instead of having the punt blocked, this time the 35-yard low-liner kick was taken back 64 yards for a touchdown. The defense didn’t even get a chance to stop the Flyers this time, and Dayton led 24-0.

Alexander threw another pick on the ’Cats’ next possession, and the Davidson faithful felt the game slipping away. With a Flyers touchdown the game very well may have been, but linebacker Peter Bakke ’09 recorded his first career interception and returned it 26 yards. The interception woke up the offense and the ’Cats finally got on the board. After a great catch by Jackson Whetsel ’07 for 28 yards down to the Dayton one-yard line, Alexander scored a touchdown on a quarterback sneak. Yeatts Anderson ’06 scampered in on the two-point conversion and the ’Cats trailed 24-8 at half.

Dayton drove 70 yards on their first possession after the halftime horn for a touchdown. Then, with Davidson trailing 31-8, Alexander found Dioguardi on a fly route for an 88-yard touchdown throw and catch. Brad Smith ’07 nailed the extra point and Davidson cut the deficit back to 16. No other second-half opportunities came to fruition. Dayton controlled the ball for 25 of the 30 second-half minutes. The Flyers scored two more touchdowns in the second half and the final lopsided score was 45-15.

“We must learn to execute for four quarters, and we will become the type of team that plays for championships every year. We have the talent, now we have to get the mindset,” said Childers.

Davidson was led defensively by linebacker Alex Arinsmier ’06, who had 14 tackles. Saturday marked the fourth straight game in which Arinsmier has had 10 tackles or more. The ’Cats have off this week before the season finale versus Patriot League foe the Georgetown Hoyas in Washington, D.C., on Nov. 12.

Four years of unmatched success for Koehrn
By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Senior Staff Writer

The victory on Sunday for theThe women’s soccer team cemented their undefeated season, in no small part due to the efforts of co-captain Kara Koehrn ’06. Koehrn scored the first Davidson goal with under 17 minutes of play remaining, not nine minutes before Tracy MacCausland ’09 netted the game-winner. The leading scorer for the ’Cats this year, Koehrn has racked up 18 of the team’s 36 goals and contributed four assists as a forward. The team is 9-0-1 this year when Koehrn has at least one goal, and 4-4-1 when she has not hit the back of the net. Named to the Soccer Buzz Elite Feet Team of the Week for the week of Oct. 17, tabbed SoCon Player of the Week in back-to-back weeks prior to that, and honored as the SoCon TIAA-CREF Student-Athlete of the Week this year, Koehrn has been recognized by more than just the Davidson fans as one of the premier players in the conference and the nation. Over the last three years, Koehrn has been named to the All-SoCon First Team twice as well as having been named conference Freshman of the Year in 2002. Koehrn describes this year as “nothing short of amazing so far” for the Davidson team. She is quick to note, however, that as well as her senior season has gone for the team and for her individually, the Wildcats are not done working yet, hoping that “we have a few more highlights up our sleeves for the tournament.” Highlights, perhaps, like the College of Charleston game, which Kara Koehrn ’06 has scored 18 goals this year. Koehrn calls the high point of the season. “What a relief, to clinch the Southern Conference title in our last home game in sudden death overtime! Greg [Ashton] and Winnie [Corrigan] were so funny; after the game they came into the locker room and sprayed sparkling cider everywhere.” Coaches Ashton and Corrigan both came on for the 2004 season, turning around a program that had, in 2003, failed to make the SoCon tournament for the first time in team history. Koehrn said, “If you had asked me two years ago whether I thought we would be undefeated in the conference my senior year, I probably would have laughed. The team has thrived under [Ashton and Corrigan’s] leadership so far.” Ashley Burgin ’06 agreed that the team has come a long way, chalking it up to determination to improve. “Our work paid off, as our junior year, with a new coach and new confidence, we made it to the finals of the SoCon. One year after not even making the tournament.” Koehrn recalls two of the games from the 2004 season as her favorites of her Davidson career. First beating rival Furman in the regular season, then coming back to take UNC-Greensboro in the semifinal game of the SoCon tournament. “We had worked so hard that season under our new coaching direction, and the feeling of fulfilled exhaustion that I had after those two games is what I strive for in every game when I play soccer.” Burgin says that Koehrn sets an example for the team with a combination of this perseverance and character. “She is humble, caring, and kind, such that we always joke that she must turn into someone else when she plays because she is a relentless, aggressive, and tenacious forward who any defender would be scared to mark.” Off the field, Koehrn plans to attend graduate school for environmental science or genetics, to follow her biology major here at Davidson. She has spent the last two summers traveling and studying, first in Trinidad and then in the Bahamas for research on marine life. “I know: rough life. I really was extremely lucky to have stumbled upon this Davidson place. I will cherish the experiences I have had—on and off the field—here forever.” She also intends to return and watch the soccer team in the future because, as she puts it, “this group is going places.” One of the group that will remain is Koehrn’s sister, Kristen ’08. Kara points to the two years of their overlap at Davidson as something that has enriched her experience, both on the soccer team and in general, immeasurably. “It’s a given that Kristen is an amazing soccer player, but she is also one of the most genuine and true-hearted people I know. I aspire to be more like her all the time.” Kristen echoes respect for her sister, praising her for being able to step up in pressure situations, citing the Charleston game as an example. “What makes Kara stand above the rest is her consistency. There are some players who show their best game every once in a while, but Kara plays every game with heart. Kara is finishing her soccer career off with the bang that it deserves. I am so happy for her and will miss her.” Photographers Needed Email jehodge