THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2005 5

Speaking Center increases student confidence

By SARAH BALEY
Staff Writer

The Davidson Speaking Center opened in late September in the basement of Chambers. Run by student tutors, the Speaking Center offers a variety of services that range from helping students decide the subject matter for speeches to helping them hone their presentation skills.

The idea for the Speaking Center developed when Professor and Director of Oral Communication Kathleen Turner was hired last year.

“The Speaking Center was a year in development,” Turner said. “The support from Davidson College has been phenomenal. After I was hired, but before I joined the faculty, it helped support me in attending a conference in the National Association of Communication Centers.

“Then, in the fall of last year, I toured different centers in Virginia, North Carolina, and South Carolina to look at their facilities, talk about their procedures [and] get advice. Based on that, I worked with Dr. Campbell and Dr. Miller, who are the co-directors of the Writing Center, to design the space in the north basement.”

The Speaking Center includes two private rooms where students can videotape themselves giving presentations, as well as a regular classroom that has PowerPoint and other technological capabilities.

“As a tutor, I help students work on oral presentations anywhere from invention to delivery,” Oliver Foley ’06 said. “Oftentimes when a student comes in and wants to work on his or her delivery we’ll videotape their presentation and then view it on one of the viewing screens so they can critique themselves as well as receive advice from us.”

According to tutor Garrett Monda ’06, the videotaping element of the Speaking Center is the most helpful for students.

“While some people find it a little awkward to watch yourself speak, there is no better way to improve than to actually see yourself giving the presentation,” Monda said. “You never realize what your audience sees until you actually become part of the audience.”

“I think the Speaking Center is a great asset to people. In my time at Davidson, I have found that most students have great analysis and critical thinking skills but have more of a problem articulating those ideas in a speech as opposed to a paper.”

--Graham Honeycutt ‘06

Turner says that the Speaking Center is already popular with students.

“We had figured that it would get off to a slow start as people learned about its availability and got accustomed to coming in, but we’ve had pretty regular traffic,” Turner said. “The response has been very nice.”

In fact, the center has had so much support that Turner plans on adding another tutor in the spring to better accommodate student needs.

Currently, the center’s five tutors are Foley, Monda, Graham Honeycutt ’06, David Kerns ’08, and Tia Washington ’07.

Most of the tutors became involved with the Speaking Center after taking one of Turner’s speech courses.

“I took a speech class the first semester of my sophomore year with Dr. Turner and I loved it,” Washington said. “Towards the end of the semester, she said that she might be opening a speech center, and I expressed interest. We were both enthusiastic about the idea and it fit both of our schedules.”

Another tutor might allow the center to be open more. It is currently open on Sunday, Monday, and Wednesday nights from 9 to 11 p.m.

Tutors are available on a first-come, first-serve basis.

“I think the Speaking Center is a great asset to people,” Honeycutt said. “In my time at Davidson, I have found that most students have great analysis and critical thinking skills but have more of a problem articulating those ideas in a speech as opposed to a paper.”

Although the public speaking help is popular with students, Turner hopes to increase the center’s repertoire of services and improve students’ career prospects.

The center already offers assistance to students who plan on interviewing for fellowship, graduate school, or job opportunities, but Turner plans to work more closely with Career Services.

“We'll be inviting [Director of Career Services] John Adams to speak with the tutors and make sure we’re on the same page,” Turner said. “We view this as a complementary service, not competition.”

Although this is only her second year teaching at Davidson, Turner is already the chair of the communication studies department, which she was largely responsible for starting.

“It [communication studies] used to be part of theater,” comments Turner. “It was theater and speech and the focus was on performative aspects. Part of my mission was to expand the intellectual basis so that people have a better understanding of the process of speaking.”

Still small, the department is growing.

“We now have two whole courses on the books,” Turner said, referring to COM 101 and COM 102. “101 has been taught here before but we are beefing up the conceptual aspects so that, in addition to helping students become better at delivering speeches, we help them understand the choices that are to be made and the ramifications of those choices.

“102 is essentially an introduction into the field. The first half focuses on concepts that are basic to the communication process including language and nonverbal communication, listening, perception [and] adaptation to audience. Then, the second half looks at those concepts in particular contexts.”

Tutor Graham Honeycutt ’06

HOLIDAY FOOD DRIVE

From right now until December 21st, the Library is having a campus-wide food drive for items to be given to the needy in our area.

*YOU MAY ALSO CANCEL YOUR LIBRARY FINES WITH DONATIONS OF FOOD*

REMEMBER, PLEASE, WE ARE FEEDING FAMILIES. NO SINGLE SERVING/SMALL ITEMS. SUGGESTED ITEMS:

ASSORTED VEGETABLES, JELLO, CANNED MEATS, SPAGHETTI, SOUPS, AND MACARONI

HOW: One non-perishable food item will cover up to $1.00 of overdue fines. (E.G. For 5 items of food, you can pay for $4.50 in fines.)

WHERE: Library Circulation Desk