THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

photos by Ruchi Turakhia

Events at the Chinese New Year celebration in Chambers Gallery last Wednesday included craft activities, face painting, traditional dances, and
raffles for children and adults.

HELP WANTED

MATURE, RESPONSIBLE FEMALE TO HELP WITH MY THREE YOUNG CHILDREN. MAY INCLUDE SOME LIGHT HOUSEKEEPING. WILLING TO SUBMIT TO BACKGROUND
CHECK. MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY, 4-6 HOURS A DAY. DAYS AND TIMES FLEXIBLE BUT PREFER MORNING HOURS. CPR EXPERIENCE PREFERRED AND
BABYSITTING EXPERIENCE AND REFERENCES REQUIRED. MUST HAVE OWN TRANSPORTATION. $10.00 / HOUR PLEASE CALL STACEY IF INTERESTED 704-894-0986

Laundry, continued from page 1

detergent with their laundry bag. Since several bags of laundry are cleaned at the same time, the detergent could mix
with the clothing of a student with allergies.

“Ever since I have been manager, upperclassmen have been telling the underclassmen that we don't use detergent and boil the
clothes. That's just not the case." --Aaron Jackson, Laundry Manager

Once a student throws his bag of dirty laundry into the oversized brown bins, his clothing is taken and sorted
into two mesh bags according to color.

Laundry employees do not separate delicate and regular fabrics but can generally feel when an article of clothing requires special
care or dry-cleaning.

The mesh bags are thrown in groups in the washing machine, so that several students’ laundry is cleaned simultaneously.

After being washed, the contents of each bag are dried in an individual dryer before being folded and packaged for
pick-up. Jackson admitted that the laundry service makes mistakes like any other business but asserted that students will be reimbursed
for the estimated value of lost or damaged articles of clothing.

Despite suspicions and rumors, the laundry service continues to be one of the most valued perks at Davidson College.

photo by Jessie Hodge

Contrary to rumor, clothes are washed with laundry detergent, not boiled.

Early, continued from page 1

applied regular decision and has yet to hear the admission department’s decision.

“We are excited about the students already enrolled and look forward to inviting the rest of the Class of 2009
to join these fine students,” said Payne.

Regular admissions will also offer students who did not get accepted in the early decision process a second shot at
earning a spot in the Class of 2009.

“Students who were deferred in the early decision process will be reconsidered in the regular decision pool,” said Payne.

The overall applicant pool reached a new all-time high of 4,222, which represented a 1.7 percent increase over last year’s
total of 4,154 students.

Although this difference is slight, it continues the upward trend in applications seen over the last several years.

Payne also pointed to the geographical variety of the early decision applicants that were accepted. The group includes students from
30 states, Singapore, Taiwan, Turkey, Pakistan, and Canada.

The group is relatively balanced along gender lines. Of the admitted students, early decision acceptances have already been processed, whereas
regular applicants will not receive notification for several weeks.

The Admissions Office announced April 1 as the deadline for all admission decisions.

Students have until May 1 to respond to the offers of admission.

Join America's #1 Student Tour Operator

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2005

1-800-649-4849 / www.ststravel.com
