10 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2005

Simihaian, Chitty impress at UNC Invite

By Erik SWANSON
Staff Writer

The men’s tennis team returned to action last weekend as six players traveled to Chapel Hill for the UNC Fall
Invitational tournament. The second of four tournaments for Davidson this fall, the Fall Invitational boasted a tough field featuring opponents
from schools like UNC, Charlotte, Navy, and Duke, among others.

Several Wildcats posted impressive results at the tournament, which featured multiple draws in the compass draw format, designed to give
competitors as many matches as possible. Davidson was led by Flaviu Simihaian ’08, the team’s top returning singles player from
last season, who placed third in the top bracket with victories over UNC’s No. 4 and No. 5 players. Simihaian
won his first two matches in the blue singles bracket over players from ECU and UNC to reach the semifinals.
There he faced a tough Radford opponent who was ranked last year in the top 40 in the world junior
rankings. Playing nearly perfect tennis in the first set, Simihaian took a one-set lead; his opponent, however, bounced back and
won the final two sets, leaving Simihaian on the losing end of a 3-6, 6-2, 6-1 battle. In a playoff
for third place, Simihaian played another UNC opponent and prevailed to earn third place honors.

Jay Chitty ’07 also performed well for Davidson, posting a 3-1 record in the second toughest singles bracket. After losing
a close three-set match in the opening round to his opponent from Charlotte, Chitty bounced back to win his next
three matches over opponents from Navy, Wofford, and ECU, respectively. Competing in the same draw as Chitty, Scott Myers ’09
showed promise in only his second tournament as a Wildcat. After losing his opening match to an opponent from Navy,
Myers fought back to win a gritty three-set match against his Charlotte opponent in the next round. “Scott learned a
lot this weekend,” said captain Joe Cheaney ’06. “He only came away from the tournament with one victory, but the
confidence and experience he gained against some tough opponents will definitely help him in the spring.”

Another new face to the top tier of the team, Phillip Compeau ’08, continued his early-season hot streak, winning three
of his four matches over opponents from Wofford, Richmond, and Charlotte.

In doubles action, Simihaian and Compeau again posted the best results for Davidson. Competing in the second doubles draw, Simihaian
and Compeau won all four of their matches, including two matches over UNC teams, to take the title. “Flav and
Phil really impressed me in doubles, especially considering they’ve only been playing together for a couple of weeks,” said Cheaney.
“We’re going to need a lot more performances like that from them and the rest of the team this year.”

The Wildcats next play October 14-15 when they host the annual Davidson/Jim Causey Invitational, where they will face conference foes
Furman, Appalachian State, and Elon.

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School
Best Lawyers in America ‘84—'05
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals
Adjunct professor of trial advocacy
Duke Law School
UNC Law School

THE NEIGHBORHOOD LAW FIRM

We Are Proud To Be Your Neighborhood Law Firm
Concentrating in Personal Injury
Other Areas of Practice
Appeals, Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning, Family Law, Litigation, Real Estate, Wills & Trusts

In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. University of Richmond
Commissioner for the Town of Davidson ’83-’85; ’88-’97
Town of Davidson Commercial and North End Corridor Plan ’05
Mecklenburg County Real Estate Executive Council ’03 to present.

From Football, page 12

In the third quarter, Smith tied hiscareer-long field goal of 41 yards. The ’Cats took advantage of the second-half turnovers
when Barnes ran in from five yards out for a score. Davidson led 41-3 with 8:25 left in the third
quarter. Beaux Jones ’08 replaced Alexander in the mid-third quarter. Jones picked up right where Alexander left off when he
connected with fullback Mike Chapman ’07 for a six-yard touchdown reception. Valparaiso mounted an offensive attack in the last minutes
of the game and added two late touchdowns, but the Wildcats boarded the plane to come home with a dominating
48-17 win over the PFL North Crusaders. Alexander compiled 307 yards and four touchdowns in the first half alone. As
a team, the Wildcats accumulated 603 total yards, which is good enough for the second-most yards in the last 20
seasons. “The offense is really starting to click and execute when we need to,” said Rice. The record yardage was
achieved without the services of running back Jonathan Hubbard ’08 and all-PFL receiver Brett Dioguardi ’07, who were sidelined with
injuries. Davidson (2-2, 1-0) will kick off with Drake (2-2, 1-0) at 1:00 p.m. on Saturday for the Homecoming game
in Richardson Stadium.

Kara Koehrn lifts ’Cats in conference opener
By Suzie Eckl
Staff Writer

Despite being outshot 23-15, the women’s soccer team recorded their first conference win of the season on Sunday against the
Mocs of UT-Chattanooga, coming out 1-0 in double overtime. Kara Koehrn ’06 scored her fourth goal of the season to
put her on top of the Wildcats’ scoring list. On the play, goalkeeper Laura Schulenborg ’06 punted the ball where
Kristen Koehrn ’08 was able to settle it and send it to Anne Stevens ’07. Stevens played the ball over
the defense to Tiffany Mumby ’09 who ran onto it around the 12-yard line. “It was beautiful,” Nancy Haskell ’08
said of the play which ended with Mumby’s pass and Kara Koehrn’s goal at 110:58.

This was the second double overtime game in a row for the ’Cats, who were unable to gain an advantage
against host Chattanooga. In the first overtime period, the Lady Mocs came out strong, registering three shots to Davidson’s one.
Melanee Smith ’09 described the play as “frantic” at first, but said that after the overtime game against Colorado College
last week, the ’Cats felt both excited and confident. Tied at zero for more than 110 minutes, both teams knew
that the game had come down to a battle between the defense and the goalkeepers. Said Haskell, overtime periods are
all about “playing good soccer and not taking risks in the back. It is a testament to our defense.”

Laura Schulenborg ’06 started her first game of the season in goal and came away with her first career shutout
after facing and denying 10 UT-C shots. Both Schulenborg and Chattanooga’s keeper, who tallied eight saves, played the entire game.
Coach Greg Ashton said, “We played well and defended very well which gave us the opportunity to win the game.
After not taking advantage of earlier scoring chances, it only took one in the second overtime, so I’m very proud
of the way we kept at it.” Smith said, “The leadership of the upperclassmen helps us focus on how important
conference play is.” They will rely on the more experienced, older players such as Kara Koehrn, Stevens, and Schulenborg to
continue to perform well and lead the team. The Wildcats now stand at 4-4-1 on the season, while they move
to 1-0 in the conference. Davidson will host Elon tomorrow at 7 p.m.

202 South Main campus chums with a yummy 704-892-0604 ice cream cake. Birthdays, study breaks, exam (hes @ Jerry's Smears
ducts (ne. 2003 St. Davidson, NC.
