THE DAVIDSONIAN - SPORTS
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2005

By WALKER SAIK
Senior Staff Writer

Head out to the Davidson College Lake Campus, and you’ll find several amenities that aren’t provided anywhere else on campus.
From catching some rays, playing some soccer, having an SGA cookout, or taking a dip in the water, that area
of campus is as unique as it gets around here. But the crew team sees the Lake Campus in an
entirely new light. If nothing else, every Friday morning they wake up at 5 a.m. and get to see the
sunrise on Lake Norman. The water to them has a sense of serenity and perfection, and crew kids seem to
have a love of rowing that no one else can appreciate.

“It’s a beautiful feeling when you are in the middle of a sprint, with the competition only 20 feet on
either side of you, your legs burning with each stroke taken, and you realize that it feels like you are
the only rower in the boat,” said Crew President Adam Sperduto ’06.

Of course, you are not the only person in the boat (more appropriately termed “shell”). Depending on size, either 4
or 8 people row in each shell with an additional “coxswain” (pronounced cox-an) to steer and keep rowers synchronized and
motivated.

“The other 7 (or 3) guys are moving so completely in unison that all you hear or feel is the
water rushing beneath the shell and the rhythmic ‘clunk’ as the oars rotate in the oar locks at the finish
of each stroke,” Sperduto said.

Rowing is poetic; there’s no way around that. When you’re out on a body of water in a hollow scrap
of metal, you have no choice but to find your inner flow, tune out life for a few minutes or
hours, and mystically match your teammates’ every motion.

Crew comes together in the A.M.

“Crew is the ultimate team sport,” said Sperduto, who started rowing as a freshman. “You are absolutely dependent on the
other rowers in front of and/or behind you. If one rower’s timing is off, the entire boat will rock side-to-side,
and it is impossible to create the power and maintain the technique necessary to move the boat as fast and
as far as you can.”

But it’s not easy to be in crew. While they enjoy their club sport status, it creates several difficulties that
keep them working as hard as any sport on campus, which perhaps explains how crew members maintain such firm friendships.
For one, they recruit all their athletes. In addition, unlike typical collegiate sports, crew isn’t normally included in a high
school program, so few students come to college with any rowing background at all.

“Most people come to college and have never even seen a crew shell before,” said Sperduto. “The coaches of the
novice team don’t just teach them how to row; they introduce them to an entirely new sport—with a new language,
vocabulary, equipment, and rules.”

Sperduto adds that the freshmen recruits “eventually turn into a team that you will hopefully see gliding absolutely in sync,
very smoothly across the surface of Lake Norman the next spring.” Considering Crew is one of the largest club sports
on campus, they’re obviously doing a good job.

But while the crew team enjoys its independence from NCAA restrictions and guidelines, it means students—not college administrators—have to run
the team.

“Basically we are a club sport that competes at a varsity level,” said varsity captain Jon Atkinson ’06. “That basically
means practicing 6 days per week, nearly year-round in addition to worrying about other issues such as self-government and fundraising.”

Fundraising is a whole different issue, too. You may have eaten at a crew barbecue fundraiser, seen the sweatshirts, or
just bought a dozen Krispy Kremes, but the theme is the same: Crew needs money. If you check out the
Crew page on the Davidson website (it’s really cool), you will find that new shells cost anywhere from $10,000 to
$24,000. To top it off, Davidson club and ATC rules prevent Crew from receiving direct donations or rolling over leftover
cash from one year to the next.

“This severely handicaps our ability to raise the kind of money necessary to buy the kind of equipment we need,”
said Atkinson. “We have recently bought two new boats and are very grateful for the generosity that has allowed their
purchase, but we are still currently trying to share the new eight [person shell] between three teams trying to practice
six days per week.”

Overcoming these challenges, however, has a lot to do with the level of pride members have for Davidson Crew, which
was only founded in 1990.

“I think [crew as a club sport] is a valuable outlet for serious athletes coming to Davidson and looking to
try something new, be competitive, and maintain the regimen of being a collegiate athlete just by showing the grit and
competitive spirit necessary to overcome the 5:30 a.m. hurdle,” said Atkinson.

So in case you’re now suddenly interested in keeping track of the Crew team, you’ve come at the right time.
This weekend they travel to the SIRA Championships in Oak Ridge, TN for their biggest regatta (that means race) of
the year.

from Frank, page 17

balls and caused turnovers. Frank has not slowed down this season, as she leads the team with 22 goals, nine
assists and 31 points, while also leading once again in groundballs and caused turnovers. Frank, who places second in Davidson
his-Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Tory on the single-game points and goals lists, has had two breakout games this season. In a 20-10 win over
Canisius on March 31, Frank led the team with six goals, and she followed that performance with a five-goal effort
on April 2 in a 16-6 loss to Oregon. Still, she deflects any attention her individual stats might receive. “Anything
I can do to help my team, it feels great to have done that,” she said. “I would definitely say
I’m a lot more satisfied when we come out with a win and I don’t get any stats, than when
we come out with a loss. When we lose, I’m happy that I did what I could, but I think
that obviously it wasn’t enough ... [that] I didn’t push my teammates enough [and] I didn’t get what I needed
out of everyone else on the team to get the win. So it’s a little unsatisfying in that respect.”

As a senior and a captain, Frank and her co-captains help the team stay focused and positive in tough situations.
“During games, it’s important for our team, when we get down a couple of goals, to keep talking,” she said.
“We’re a team that’s very mental, and when we’re mentally out of the game, we tend to shut down communication-wise.
We communicate so well off the field, that when we’re in a game situation and things aren’t going our way,
the captains and myself try our best to keep communication up and try to make sure that we’re having fun
out there regardless of the score.”

With only three regular season games remaining, the Wildcats are closing in on the end of another season, and for
Frank and the other four seniors, their final game. While the results might not have been what they expected when
they first came to Davidson, their experience has still been fulfilling. Asked what she will miss most about Davidson lacrosse,
Frank did not think twice. “The girls,” she said decisively. “Just having the support system, off the field or on
the field, no matter what I needed. My best friends were lacrosse players, and I couldn’t imagine it any other
way.”

“I know tons of girls who went to other programs who I played with in high school. They’ve had a
better lacrosse experience in terms of improving as individuals and maybe having better team records, but they have not had
the same camaraderie that we have. I think that’s a much better trade-off. I'll miss being part of this team.”

As for her future in lacrosse, Frank plans to hang up her stick for a few years after April 28.
An English major, she hopes to enter advertising, marketing or public relations rather than coaching, though she concedes that there
might be some lacrosse in her future. “I’ll coach my little girls when I get older,” she said.

Lacrosse can’t handle Va. Tech, Vanderbilt
By WILSON McCrory
Sports Editor

It was a bad omen for the Wildcats when Virginia Tech scored just 20 seconds into the game last Wednesday,
and the Hokie offense proved to be too much for the Wildcat defense all day. In a weekend contest on
the road against Vanderbilt, Davidson again could not corral the opposition on defense, as the Commodores outshot the Wildcats 45-15
en route to a 20-3 victory.

On Wednesday, Davidson looked to improve to 5-7 all time against Virginia Tech, but the Hokies ended hopes of any
road heroics early on when the Virginia Tech offense netted 11 straight goals in the first half alone to take
a commanding 11-0 lead into the half. The Hokies scored again just 33 seconds into the second half of play,
and they never looked back as they rolled to a 20-2 victory. Davidson did not even get off a shot
against Virginia Tech until the 2:26 mark in the first half, and the Wildcats could not get on the board
before intermission. In total, Davidson was outshot 38-9 by the Hokies, and Lindsay Frank ’05 and Alex Eagan ’07 were
the only Wildcats to record goals on the afternoon. Goalie Laura Johnson ’08 picked up six ground balls against the
Hokies, and she also pulled in seven saves.

The Wildcats continued their season-ending road trek over the weekend, as Davidson traveled to Nashville, TN to take on ALC
foe Vanderbilt. Davidson looked ready for the challenge early on, as the ’Cats held the Commodores scoreless for the first
10 minutes of regulation. The Wildcats could not maintain that defensive success, however, as the Commodores went on a 9-2
scoring run over the final 10 minutes of the first half to take a seven-goal lead into the half. In
the second half, the Commodores continued to put pressure on the offensive end before cruising to a 20-3 victory. Overall,
Vanderbilt outshot the ’Cats 45-15 and beat Davidson 33-21 in ground balls. For the Wildcats, Kiften Stephens ’06 and Missy
Gilbert ’06 both netted goals in the first half, while Millie McKeachie ’05 was the only ’Cat to score in
the second frame. On the defensive end, Johnson recorded 13 saves and four ground balls, but her efforts were not
enough to hold off the Commodore offense.

With the two losses, Davidson fell to 4-9 overall, including 0-5 in ALC competition. The team next travels to Northwestern
this weekend to conclude its ALC schedule, and the Wildcats close out the regular season with non-conference opponents William &
Mary and Longwood.

STSTRAVEL.COM
Join America’s #1 Student Tour Operator
CANCUN
1-800-648-4849 / www.ststravel.com
