THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2005 13

Game over; NIT run ends vs. Terps

By WILL BRYAN
Staff Writer

For 17 minutes, it looked like the Wildcats were on their way to another postseason victory, this time against the
Maryland Terrapins in the second round of the NIT. Led by a balanced inside-out attack for most of the first
half, Davidson silenced the 12,000 Maryland fans by taking a 34-18 lead with just 3:55 to play in the first
half. That dream came to a crashing halt as Maryland eventually wore out the Wildcats on both ends of the
floor to claim a 78-63 victory and to end Davidson’s postseason run.

After Davidson built the big lead, foul trouble forced the high-scoring trio of Logan Kosmalski ’05, Jason Morton ’06, and
Brendan Winters ’06 to the bench for the last five minutes of the half, and the Wildcats suffered dearly. Out
of a timeout, Maryland came alive on both the offensive and defensive end, and the Terrapins used turnovers and hot
shooting to close out the half on a dizzying 16-0 run to force a 34-34 tie at the break.

“Sometimes you have to play with good players on the bench. But when you have three like that, we just
couldn’t handle it,” said head coach Bob McKillop. Winters only played seven minutes in the first half and hit just
one shot. The Wildcats committed 10 turnovers in the first half alone, and Maryland finished the game with 22 points
off of turnovers.

Foul trouble continued to be a main storyline for the ’Cats on the evening, and when Conor Grace ’05 picked
up his fourth foul in the second half, the Wildcats’ interior play suffered. Maryland outrebounded the ’Cats 51-43 overall, and
the Terrapins' ability to finish inside and draw fouls proved to be the difference in the game.

“We had way too many opportunities that we didn’t convert,” said McKillop. “You can’t expect to win when you play
that way.” Davidson’s last field goal of the game came at the 6:40 mark in the second half when Morton,
who finished with 15 points, pulled the ’Cats to within four at 63-59. Davidson would score just four more points
on free throws to close the game, while Maryland continued to translate possessions into points and the win.

In the end, the Wildcats just could not prevail against a deep, athletic Maryland squad. “I really think that the
environment just got into our heads, and we didn’t overcome it,” said Kosmalski. Davidson fans spent most of the first
half suspecting that the officiating might have been involved in some “home cooking,” as there were many questionable calls inside
that contributed to the foul trouble that had Grace and Kosmalski sitting on the bench for an abnormally large amount
of time.

Despite the first half foul trouble, Davidson still remained close for most of the second half, but the Wildcats just
couldn’t pull it out. “I thought that we fought the entire game. Every one of these players laid it on
the line, but we just ran out of gas in the end,” said Coach McKillop.

RIBS...EAT IN OR TAKE OUT...RIBS
GOURMET FLAME-BROILED ALL-BEEF “JUMBO" HOTDOGS SERVED ON GRIDDLE TOASTED ROLLS, GERMAN BRATS, SWEET ITALIAN SAUSAGE, POLISH KIELBASA
OUR OWN PORK BAR-B-Q, BEAR'S BEST
PHILLY CHEESESTEAKS & MORE
9709-5 CAN FURR RD, HUNTERSVILLE NC
I-77 EXIT 25~RT #73~"EASY OFF/EASY ON"
Hours~Daily 11AM~8PM: Closed Sunday
www.buzzyandbearsgrill.com

Davidson couldn’t keep up the pressure after halftime. Seniors Kosmalski and Grace both fouled out of their last game in
the Wildcat red and black. Kosmalski finished with 13 points and 10 rebounds, while Grace had three points and five
rebounds. Winters again led the Wildcats in scoring, as he recorded 16 points on 4-10 shooting from beyond the arc.
Despite the disappointing ending, the Wildcats certainly have much to remember about this 2004-2005 campaign, including a perfect conference record
in the regular season, last-second thrilling victories against the College of Charleston and Appalachian State, and the first post-season tournament
victories since 1969.

From McCrory, page 12

Numerous times on the hardwood, slowly but surely, I began to actually identify with Davidson. I continued to watch Raymond,
Rashad, and Jawad, and I loved every minute of it, but those weren’t the guys that I saw in the
library, Commons, or Chambers. Other than a familial connection to Carolina, those weren’t my guys at all. I still made
it up to my share of Carolina games both that season and again this year, always donning my baby blue
attire and again pretending for a weekend that I was some mysterious Chapel Hill student. But as time passed, I
began to feel more and more like a fake instead of a die-hard Carolina fan. This year, instead of traveling
to Carolina games on a regular basis, I usually opted for road trips to Greensboro, Elon, and Chattanooga to follow
the Wildcats. I was truly heartbroken when Logan’s three-point attempt fell short against UNC Greensboro in the SoCon semifinals, and
I felt like the season was over. My “other” team, I rationalized, still had a chance, and a darn good
one, to win the National Championship, so the season wasn’t really over. In fact, I thought I was lucky to
have two chances at success in college basketball every year. It certainly was fun to watch the Tar Heels and
their march to the 2005 National Title, and I would be lying if I said I didn’t care. I will
always follow Carolina, whether I go to school there or not. But in the end, the Heels are no longer
“my team.” I realized yesterday, as that empty feeling continued deep into the night, that I am a Davidson fan,
first and foremost, and as a friend of mine said, you can’t have two favorites in sports. So if I
have to pick one, I'll take my chances with the Wildcats.

Looking for a Part-Time Summer Job around Davidson?
Are you enthusiastic? Do you enjoy talking on the phone? Are you looking for something to spice up your resume?
Want to earn extra money? Become a Student Fundraiser for The Annual Fund!
May and June 2005
Sunday - Thursday nights from 7-9 PM.
Starting pay is $7/hour plus bonuses! Day hours are also available.
Please contact Elizabeth Yearwood '04 (elyearwood@davidson.edu) or x2464
Applications are also available online at http://www2.davidson.edu/giving/af_stus.asp
