The D
@ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @
First Class - U.S. Postage PAID
Permit #1 Davidson, NC

Davidsonian
DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2005 VOLUME 97, NUMBER 10

DOWN TO THE WIRE...
“The Juniors,” comprised of (from left) Christian Rothenbach '06, Robert Correll ’07, Bryant Kirkland ‘07, and Peter Simov ‘08, emerged triumphant in the College Bowl finals Sunday. “The Juniors” defeated “Who is Marcellus Wallace?,” whose team members, seniors Evan Downey, Rob Heidrick, Eric LaForest, and Jackie Ryan, forced a third head-to-head match that was tied until the second half.

Survey shows students hesitant about sororities
By Lexi HAMILTON
Senior Staff Writer

In a recent survey conducted by Associate Professor of Political Science Patrick Sellers, 45 percent of participants responded that Davidson should not have sororities on campus. Thirty-one percent responded that sororities should be allowed on campus, and the remainder was undecided. The survey, which was conducted by email, had a total of 553 participants. Supporters of the sorority tended to be male; supporters also tended to be non-white. According to Sellers, however, the sample size was too small to make the multivariate comparison that supporters tended to be non-white males.

The results of the survey have caused organizers of the effort to bring a historically black sorority to Davidson to double their efforts to secure student support. “It’s not enough just to tell Davidson students where they may search to find information on this type of sorority,” organizer Whitney White ’08 said. “This knowledge has to be directly accessible.”

Although the Patterson Court Council (PCC) returned a 24-2 vote in support of the historically black sorority on October 24, the survey suggests that not all students support the efforts to bring the sorority to campus. Organizer Ashley Moore ’07, however, believes that the wording of the sorority question was what caused many students to respond negatively. “The survey question did not specifically ask whether students supported the historically black sorority,” Moore said, “which means that a lot of the survey participants may have responded ‘no’ or ‘unsure’ because of their aversion to the traditional female Greek system.”

Yet one student independent of an eating house said, “I think that the sorority will fill a need that Patterson Court does not meet. Unfortunately, from what I’ve heard from some of my friends in eating houses, it seems that the initial presentations at the houses were not terribly clear on the organization’s purpose, and those early misunderstandings hurt their campaign.”

Moore and the other organizers recognize that there is still resistance to the sorority on campus and plan to use the results of the survey to refocus their campaign for campus support. “We understand that the survey does reflect that a portion of the campus is still uncertain about the goals of a historically black organization,” White said, “and we will see Sorority, page 4

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Impromptu party rule upsets Court members
By KATIE PFEIFFER
Senior Staff Writer

Recent changes to the Davidson College alcohol policy have caused problems among eating houses and fraternities with a rule that limits Patterson Court to two weekday registered parties per week. Although this rule has been in place for years, many students are questioning its relevance and feel that Patterson Court is being censored unnecessarily. “I feel like Davidson, while doing a good job enforcing North Carolina state laws, takes alcohol too seriously,” said Sam Hotchkiss ’08, who is unaffiliated with a Patterson Court organization.

Changes to the alcohol policy require houses to register impromptu parties, which are held on weekdays, with Campus Safety and decreased the number of people at a gathering that requires a risk manager to 30. At issue is the change in the definition of “registered”party,” which has evolved from its past meaning of a planned event whose organizers expect a crowd, and the need to register unplanned parties when the attendance is 30, instead of 40, a change that covers many more weekday gatherings. Since only two registered parties can take place during the week, a house planning to hold a registered event may find other houses are vying for one registration slot. Additionally, if an impromptu that was not expected to require a risk manager exceeds capacity, it will either have to be broken up or get a risk manager if the two-party limit has already been reached. Due to academic and extracurricular commitments, weekday gatherings often attract fewer people, often not enough to warrant registering the event. Despite this, weekday parties are still popular. “Weekend parties are huge and draw students from all houses, whereas the weekday parties tend to be more a low-key bonding experience for individual houses and are way more laid back and intimate than anything that happens on the weekend,” Warner president Alice Neumann ’06 said. In order to protect houses from disciplinary action and provide sufficient safety preparations, students must register impromptus. The limit on the number of weekday parties has not been an issue in the past. “I did not need to enforce the

See Parties, page 5

Young Life approved as a student organization
By ADAM MARTIN
News Editor Emeritus

Davidson College recently approved the request of Young Life (YL) to become a student organization after questions regarding whether or not the organization meets the college’s policy of non-discrimination. YL is a national Christian organization that recruits college student leaders to meet with high school students in the surrounding area. Eight Davidson students currently serve as YL leaders. Emily Smith ’06 participated in YL in high school and has been a leader since her first year at Davidson. She described YL as a

Warner not to be caught disarmed again

“relational, incarnational ministry, which thrives on building relationships with high school kids and loving them just where they are, no matter where they are, because Christ has first loved us.” The Davidson policy that has troubled YL, as well as InterVarsity Christian Fellowship, in the past is the College’s “non-discrimination” clause, which says that membership in student organizations “must be open to any individual regardless of race, color, sexual orientation, religion, creed, nationality, ancestry, disability, or gender (except where appropriate and permitted by law).”

See Young Life, page 5

Counseling Center usage increases
By JILLIAN BARTELS
Staff Writer

In the past few years, Davidson’s Student Counseling Center (SCC) has experienced an increase in the number of students who seek treatment for mental health issues. Davidson now has one of the highest counseling center participation rates in the country. Statistics show that about 20 percent of the student body seeks help during any given academic year and that about 45 percent of graduating seniors report having gone to the SCC at least once. According to SCC Director David Staton, there are many causes for the increased number of students seeking help. “More students are arriving at college who have already used counseling in the past or are currently on psychotropic medications,” Staton said. “Many such students might not have been able to achieve college admission or admission to the colleges they’ve chosen had it not been for such earlier support. Many then need additional similar support once in college to continue their raised achievement levels.” Staton also said the increase could be related to students being “failure-phobic” and not realizing failure is a part of life. Students most frequently report problems with stress/anxiety, depression, academics, and relationships.

See SCC, page 3

SCC Director David Staton

PAGE 9

the Hooch
Men’s Crew wins Head of

see SPORTS, PAGE 15

Alum elected to Charlotte City Council, full election results

see NEWS, PAGE 3