THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Weather-related setbacks don’t stop April at the Lake

By EMILY KOTA
Senior Staff Writer

April at the Lake was cancelled this past Friday because of rainy weather, but according to former Student Government Association
President Katharine Hubbard ’05, “We still have plenty of fun planned in the upcoming weeks.”

Walker Saik ’06 and Wilson McCrory ’07 started April at the Lake last spring as an event series designed to
draw students to the Lake Campus. Saik estimated that around 1,000 students attended April at the Lake last year. “There
are not a ton of events at Davidson College that attract the whole student body. April at the Lake hopefully
is something that everyone can enjoy between the free food, live music, and the Lake Campus,” Saik said.

Davidson Town Board members have been invited to April at the Lake this year, as well. “It’s a way for
town people to come out and talk to students and have a good time,” Saik said. Saik estimates the cost
of the event to be around $5,500, which comes from Activities Tax Council and SGA allocations. The program lasts from
3-7 p.m. on April 15 and 22, and from 7-11 p.m. on Thursday, April 28, the final day of the
event.

This year, a greater number of student groups are included in the event structure. Davidson Outdoors will once again host
a triathlon, which will take place on April 15. The Generals, Delilah’s, and Androgyny, student acapella groups, will perform on
the same day. There will also be a cookout, paddle boating, and other games. Environmental Action Coalition is hosting an
Earth Day celebration on April 22, along with live music from Rain Market. A cookout, in addition to water skiing,
tubing, paddle boating and other games, will keep all who attend entertained and well-fed. Katherine Swiatek ’07 requested that “the
hot dog buns are properly defrosted this year.”

The final evening of April at the Lake, on Thursday, April 28, will include some of the most popular events.
Saik said that “Like last year, ‘Oops’ improv comedy troupe, student music, and the nighttime boat rides will also be
strong attractions.” Annie Butler ’06 saw “Oops” for the first time during last year’s April at the Lake. “I thought
they were hilarious. I had a great time,” she said.

See Lake, page 4

Looking for a Part-Time Summer Job around Davidson?

Are you enthusiastic? Do you enjoy talking on the phone? Are you looking for something to spice up your resume?
Want to earn extra money? Become a Student Fundraiser for The Annual Fund! May and June 2005. Sunday - Thursday
nights from 7-9 PM. Starting pay is $7/hour plus bonuses! Day hours are also available. Please contact Elizabeth Yearwood ‘04
(elyearwood@davidson.edu) or x 2464. Applications are also available online at http://www2.davidson.edu/giving/af_stus.asp

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2005

Hauser discusses threats to print media’s integrity

By BEN WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

Charles Hauser, the 2005 James K. Batten Professor of Public Policy, delivered the annual Batten Lecture entitled “Media: Monopoly, Money,
and Madness” on Monday. In his talk, Hauser discussed trends in the newspaper industry that threaten the integrity of America’s
print media.

Hauser described how the increasing commercialization of newspapers has resulted in a lower-quality product. According to Hauser, the decline in
quality has been largely responsible for a steady decline in newspaper readership over the past 15 years. Among Hauser’s main
points was the importance of local news. “I think the most important job of the newspaper is to cover local
news,” Hauser said. “The local newspaper is the only reliable source of coverage for local and regional events.”

Hauser said that commercial practices such as mergers and lay-offs are lowering the quality of newspapers. He claimed that the
only way newspapers will survive is through providing a high-quality product. “Quality journalism will survive,” Hauser said. “The good, big
newspapers will survive as they are the only medium that can set the national standard for news. The local newspapers
will survive by providing accurate, detailed coverage of local news.”

Hauser also addressed the controversial

Play, continued from page 1 (Melanie Farmer ’06) and Benedick (Phil Messier ’05). “These witty lovers are really afraid to
be intimate because they can’t trust, so they use words as barriers to each other.” Lewis said. “I think that’s
something that is"Pretty common probably around here.” Although students receive credit for English 452, the course is a cross between
an English seminar and a theater class. Students build the show from the ground up, much like an Elizabethan acting
troupe. Participation is not limited to English and Theater majors; Performing Shakespeare attracts students from all disciplines. Lee Wheless ’05,
a senior Biology and Classical Language major who plays Leonato, described his reasons for taking Lewis’s class. “This course was
my treat to myself; my fun class, in some sick, masochistic way,” Wheless said. “After three and a half years
of two majors and tons of science, I wanted to step outside my norm and take something that I would
really enjoy.”

Lewis calls Performing Shakespeare the “Outward Bound” of the English major because of the huge time investment required by all
the participants. “One of the things that I’ve seen over the 22 years I have been doing this is how
much rarer it is for students to feel comfortable giving up their time for this,” Lewis said. “In earlier years,
I just don’t think we had as much competing for students’ attention.”

Nathan Bradshaw ’08 (Don John) said that although the time commitment is “extraordinary” the rewards are immeasurable. “I can now
rattle off an entire Shakespeare play from memory, I know 16 people better than I would have if trapped on
an island with them for five months, and I have suddenly been thrown into the world of acting, from which
there is no return,” he said.

As opposed to a survey course where students spend two or three classes analyzing a text, Lewis’s class allows students
to gain expert knowledge of one play. “Each of these kids will virtually know this play by heart by the
time they are done,” she said. “You could do worse than to know a Shakespeare play by heart. It’s really
a great gift and one that we don’t usually have time to do.”

With so much exposure to the Bard, some students find themselves living and breathing Shakespeare. For example, Ivey said she
often slips into Shakespearean verse during casual conversation with classmates. “We all quote lines incessantly,” she said. “Last weekend, about
six of us happened to attend the same party and we spent at least ten minutes quoting lines from ‘Much
Ado About Nothing’ and speaking in Shakespearean verse. We tried to stop but we just couldn’t.”

Because the class has spent so much time together, they have formed a tight-knit community. “If there’s a tense moment,
there’s always someone around to break the tension and make it enjoyable,” Sarah Cantrell ’06 said. “I think we try
to keep this mentality the whole time.”

Lewis has strived to make Shakespeare’s plays more accessible to her students since she began teaching at Davidson in 1980.
Toward this end, she launched Performing Shakespeare in 1983. This year marks the class’s ninth production. “I realized when I
was working on my dissertation at the end of my graduate school years that I didn’t really understand the plays
I was writing about because I really didn’t know how they would be staged,” Lewis said. “I kept hitting a
wall of just not being able to visualize how a scene would be played out.”

Bradshaw said he considers Lewis’s approach to teaching Shakespeare effective and inspiring. “You have no idea what Shakespeare is until
you have had to memorize a role in his world and have several others repeated around you over and over
again for four months,” he said. “I thought I knew what Shakespeare was like, how the plays worked, what the
language meant—I didn’t have a clue I’d be finding this much meaning in a play about nothing.”
