12 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2005

For you sports fans, DRUMBO'S PICKS

Wildcat Game of the Week
Monday 10/17 at 7:00 p.m.
Women’s Soccer vs. Winthrop - Behind clutch playmaking, women’s soccer has started 3-0 in SoCon play and have either won
or tied their last five games. The game against Winthrop should prove interesting as both teams are currently 6-4-1 and
the ’Cats will be returning home after two road games.

Outside the Den
National League Playoffs
Braves vs. Astros 10/5-10/10
Baseball’s postseason begins this week with a duel between two teams with

After lockout, NHL ready to go
By MONICA JAMOUNEAU
Sports Editor

Tonight is going to go down as one of the most important dates in the history of professional hockey. It
is the first opener since 1928 that every NHL team takes the ice together. There are 15 games between 30
teams, and there are over 600 men suited up to play, ready to make up for last year’s season-cancelling lockout.
Yes, they’re in different rinks all over the country, but they have a common goal; they’re going to make this
season the best the game’s ever seen.

The rosters, especially the backlines, have been thrown up in the air, so men like Scott Niedermayer, Michael Peca, Chris
Pronger, and Eric Brewer, once safe in their respective teams, have been traded to different clubs. One third of the
NHL’s organizations have made substantial changes to their rosters.

NHL commissioner Gary Bettman and the rest of the NHL’s governing body sat down with the players on a number
of occasions in the recent months to determine an economic system that both parties could agree on to end the
frustrating stalemate. The new collective bargaining agreement makes the owners and players partners in the economic success of the sport.

A satisfactory CBA was not the only advancement to come from the year off, however; a competition committee has been
formed to rewrite the rule book for pro hockey. Many former rules have been changed to allow for the return
of fast-paced, higher-scoring games. Also, after the draft lottery and the 2005 Entry Draft, a free agency period revealed a
crazy number of trades and signings that, as I’ve mentioned, have greatly transformed the teams.

It’s an exciting time for hockey, which is just as Bettman hoped. The new rules, however, are guaranteed to be
confusing to both fans and players as the season begins. Brendan Shanahan of the Red Wings is

From the Sideline
By MONICA JAMOUNEAU

one of the supporters of the changes. “In speaking to a lot of the fans over the last several months,
the one message I really got from them is they weren’t necessarily interested in words of apology, but what can
we do for them in the future,” he said. “I can assure you, the way the game is going to
be played, we’re going to reward teams that play an exciting style and reward players with lots of skill.”

Many of the regulations were modified to increase scoring and promote offense. The offensive zones are larger, the nets have
been moved back a couple feet, the goalie has limitations on handling the puck outside of the crease, and he
will wear less equipment. The goaltender’s padding has been reduced by approximately 11 percent, but there is little chance that
it will lead to more injuries; the smaller pants and form-fitting sweaters were designed to create more space in the
goal for the shooters.

The two-line passing rule was eliminated, meaning a player can pass from the back of his own net to the
opposing team’s blue line. This is supposed to draw out defenses and create more odd-man rushes. One of the most
important revolutions has been that of the shootout. No longer will a game end in an overtime tie. Instead, a
shootout will determine the winner in what the NHL hopes to be a dramatic conclusion. If regular time ends and
the score remains even, there will be one five-minute, four-on-four overtime session. In the instance that no goal is made,
three players from each team will compete in the shootout and take shots until someone emerges as the winner.

Further rules involve cracking down on icing and fighting. The “instigator rule,” which will try to reduce the amount of
fights on the ice, states that anyone who causes a brouhaha after the 55th minute of the game will get
both minor and major penalties, and a suspension, and his coach will receive a large fine. This won’t get rid
of brawls completely, thank goodness, but it should act as a strong motivator for those players who abused the leniency
of the old rules. You’re also going to see a lot more obstruction calls from the refs. Much like my
high school’s drug policy, there will be a “no tolerance” stand by officials on the penalties of hooking, holding, and
interference. “The practice of wrapping an opponent with your free hand along the boards in the defensive zone is no
longer permitted. This means more freeskating in the offensive zone,” referee Stephen Walkom said. Beyond changes in regulation, the NHL
and its fans will have to deal with other differences; namely, the retirement of some of the best hockey players
the world has ever seen. Great men such as Mark Messier, Ron Francis, Al MacInnis, and Vincent Damphousse have retired
before fans could watch one more season of their heart-stopping hockey, and with the hubbub surrounding the new rules, trades,
and the end of the

See NHL, page 14

Playoff prediction: Yankees win it all
By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Senior Staff Writer

Well, all you half-hearted fans who watch only the postseason, congratulations. The Red Sox made it. You have a reason
to watch the playoffs. And to you actual baseball fans (i.e., people who knew team rosters before September of this
year), let’s get ready for some interesting series. My pick for the two most intense of the entire postseason are
the best of five betwixt Yanks and Angels—a truly dangerous team—and the NLCS with the Cardinals and Astros. Yes, I
know that I’m assuming those two will win their division series, but I’m betting against the Padres and the Braves
in the postseason. Can anyone blame me?

The Cardinals over the Padres is no tough pick; LaRussa’s boys are a well-oiled machine, and San Diego hasn’t made
it past September since '98, when the Yankees’ ninth batter won a one-man war against them in the cleanest four-game
sweep I’ve ever seen. I could also mention the Pads’ abysmal season against mediocre opponents, their barely over 0.500 record,
or their pitching staff that has only half of its starting rotation with a winning record. But that would be
belaboring the point.

Seriously, this first series against the Angels has me worried. Not because my boys in pinstripes gave up two out
of three to the Red Sox; both of those games pitted Boston’s best pitchers against New York’s bottom half of
the rotation. I’m worried because Anaheim (or Los Angeles, as they now style themselves) has shown a consistent ability to
get men on base and then hit the ball deep in the outfield, either for a sacrifice, a multiple RBI
hit, or a four-bagger. I don’t care if Garret Anderson has his pants stapled to the dugout bench, the Halos
are a strong hitting team. This is not even to mention Bartolo Colon, who is quite possibly the hottest pitching
commodity in baseball at this time.

Meanwhile, look for Atlanta to blow it. I would justify this prediction with all manner of logic and statistics, but
really one need only look at the last nine years. Yes, 10 years ago they won a World Series. Since
then, they have had a yellow brick road to the playoffs every year and have ended up like Apollo in
Rocky IV every year. Besides, Houston has momentum like nobody’s business. A team coming from 15-30 to snatch the wild
card spot. Crazy. Stuff of legends. If by some Bostonian’s deal with the devil, the Yankees lose, former New York
ace Andy Pettitte and the Astros will be carrying my heart.

And the battle of the Soxes. While my confidence in Boston’s ability to lose is all but unending, it pales
in comparison to how low my opinion of Chicago as a club that can win games has sunk. Seriously, when
you are 53-24 going into July and end up being in danger of losing the division to Cleveland—Cleveland!—with a week
to go, you have done more than cool down. You have become an entirely different team. And the team that
the White Sox are right now is not one that has a prayer of beating Boston, who comes in having
earned their spot. Anybody who watches ESPN once a month knows that Big Papi is expected to come up with
more magic this year. I say that a one-dimensional player cannot carry a team by himself, and it will take
a twice in 87 years miracle to get Boston past the ALCS.

To give the BoSox credit, they did take the Yankees out from three games behind last year, and they did
massacre the Cardinals. However, I must call upon that ancient rule of the game of horse, wherein if one makes
the winning shot, one must “prove it” by making the same shot a second time. When Boston wins another Fall
Classic, I’ll acknowledge that they are no longer the best team in baseball at choking (a title which will fall
straight to the Braves). When they win another 21 World Series, I’ll acknowledge that they may be as good as
the Bronx Bombers.

And I will admit that I made a poor call early in the season. I said the Yankees would take
the Marlins in six games come October. I was wrong. It will be the Cardinals who lose four out of
six to New York. As my editor has stated, flukes are flukes. A dynasty... in some countries, those last for
centuries.
