WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2005

Password changed to “password” SEE PAGE 2

Commons renovations to use Little Library interior decorator SEE PAGE 5

Vagina Monologues terrific SEE PAGE 8

Side of shower narrowly avoided SEE PAGE 9

Sophomore girl hates Valentine’s Day, like, so much SEE PAGE 11

The Davidsonian

Transfers to state schools on the rise

Davidson College has remained in the US News and World Report’s top 10 liberal arts colleges partly due to its extremely high freshman retention rate, usually reaching far over 90 percent. Recently, though, that retention rate has dropped precipitously. According to the Dean of Students office, the freshman retention rate for the class of 2007 was 72 percent, a full 24 percentage points below the average of the preceding 10 years.

Reasons given for the steep drop vary, with some claiming that the Admissions Office chose unqualified students unable to handle the Davidson workload, others asserting that the large size of that year’s freshman class led to overcrowding and a sub-par student experience, and more contending that the decision to let Jews on the Board of Trustees had an extremely deleterious effect on student satisfaction.

Meanwhile, some administrators claimed that safeguards that had prevented student loss in the past failed last year. Said Dean of Students Claude Wilton, “As most people know, the main reason why we practice grade deflation at Davidson is so that students find it harder to transfer. Because no good school is going to want someone with a low GPA, we can trap students at Davidson. Unfortunately, with the high number of visiting professors last year, we were unable to keep GPA’s low enough to prevent transferring.” He continued, “We did not fail entirely though, as most Davidson transfers still had low enough GPA’s to confine them to mediocre large public state schools.”

Statistics provided by the Registrar do confirm that most students did transfer to public institutions. Out of the 103 students in the class of 2007 who transferred from Davidson, 92 transferred to a public university. Most former Davidson students interviewed seemed very happy with their decisions. Said Marcus Trembline ’07 at Florida State University, “I’ve had so much more fun in the past semester at Florida State than I think I would have had in all four years at Davidson. I go out every night, because I only have one

Union prostitution ring busted

Campus safety arrested five people and took down a large-scale prostitution ring on Saturday night at the Alvarez College Union. Four females and a male were arrested when one of the alleged prostitutes, Jenna Billero, 21, propositioned an undercover Davidson police officer. After her arrest, being honor-bound to report who else was participating in the ring, Billero informed on her partners, as well as her manager.

The campus police department became suspicious of the women when they were notified by several students of a possible prostitution operation outside the Union Café. Said Billy Rubin ’05, “One time at an After Midnight breakfast, one of the ladies tried to serve me the waffles from her mouth, which was weird. But, I got really suspicious when this guy in a pink coat started screaming at me, ‘that [expletive deleted] ain’t free!’ And, as we all know, After Midnight waffles are free.”

Other students also reported being propositioned by the alleged prostitutes. Remarked James Baskerville ’06, “Whenever students who didn’t hook up at court parties came to the Union for their late-night quesadillas, the women would always be asking if they wanted to ‘party.’ From what I’ve heard, they made most of their money at After Midnight events. I wouldn’t be surprised if they worked out some sort of kickback with WALT DJ’s.” He continued, “And I never liked eating alone in the Union late at night, because their manager would always be staring at me menacingly while tapping his hand with his striped cane.”

In addition to Billero, Sparkles Love, 19, Lady McGee, 22, and Blanche Dubois, 23, were charged with soliciting sex. Saul Rosenstein, 47, was charged with resisting arrest, parking in a 20-minute parking spot for longer than the allowed time, and for participation in a prostitution ring.

“We broke up a major prostitution ring tonight,” Chief of Campus Police Mark Jacks said. “They’ve been operating for years right under our nose. On top of the prostitution charges, we have also recovered an elaborate machine that they had used to manufacture fake Cat Cards.”

Rubin is happy that the prostitution ring is no longer operating on campus. “I’m just glad I caught it when I did. Who knows what kind of nonsense could have gone on if those ladies had made it down to Patterson Court? I’m taking Criminology right now, so I was pretty sure what I was dealing with.”

The four women and Rosenstein were charged with their first violation of the Davidson College Prostitution Policy and will be charged $25. A second violation carries a $50 fine and a letter home to their parents.

The Yowl: Almost every Wednesday

February 16, 2005

The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

Some of these people submitted articles:
Nathan Bradshaw
Alana Vaughn
Bron Tennis
Bobby Kenner
Andy Heston
Matt Monson

Editor: Brendan Parets

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editor at brparets@davidson.edu

Note: If you haven't been living in a cave for the past year, then you should know that the Yowl is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.class, and I even get drunk at lunch. The fraternities here are so much cooler than those at Davidson. One has a fraternity house that’s literally bigger than Chambers. Forget a goose; one frat here sacrificed a goat for one of their parties.” Trembline continued, “The girls here are so much hotter than the ones at Davidson. I’ve hooked up with 26 girls since I’ve been here, and I didn’t even hook up once at Davidson. Plus, our football team would crush Davidson’s. Go ’Noles!”

Some students also feel that they will benefit from the higher grades that they get at schools that may be less academically demanding than Davidson. Claire Dembrove ’07 transferred to the University of Colorado. “I have been very happy with my choice to leave Davidson. I feel that the University of Colorado gives me a much better chance to be successful. In my first semester, I received a 4.0 GPA. The classes are so much cooler here, like my class on television. We learned how to program the remote, do all sorts of neat stuff with the color options, and even how to use the sleep function. I never took any useful classes like that at Davidson.”

“The main reason why we practice grade deflation at Davidson is so that students find it harder to transfer.” Many former Davidson students do miss certain aspects of Davidson, such as the small classes and the approachability of the professors. Reported Mike Chaswell ’07 at Ohio State University, “It’s really different here; my economics class has 3,000 students in it. And even though the professor who teaches the course is famous, I’ve never actually seen him teaching class because all he does is type up the lecture and have the computer read it out.” Still, almost everyone interviewed agreed that they were happier at their new schools. Said Clemson transfer Percy Wilkerton ’07, “Transferring to Clemson might have been the best decision I have ever made. You would have to be a moron to spend four years and $150,000 working your ass off for a degree from a school that nobody has ever heard of when for 100,000 bucks less, I can spend seven years partying and getting straight A’s.”

Warner Hall cracks down on uninvited guests

Once again, Warner Hall’s annual “Crush Party” was marred by uninvited guests. In what has become an annual phenomenon, a large number of male students who were not invited to the party by Warner Hall members took advantage of the lax security and entered the party. For the Crush Party, each member of Warner Hall is allotted three “crushes” to invite. Invitations for the party are then left at students’ doors. The party is closed for only invitees and Warner Hall members from 10 p.m. to 12 a.m., and it then becomes an open party from 12 a.m. to 2 a.m.

Said Warner Hall member Annie Oiler ’06, “The Crush Party is one of the hallmarks of Warner Hall. One of the benefits of the Crush Party is that there are no really ugly or weird guys there, so you don’t have to worry about dancing and having some sketchy ugly guy come up behind you and start grinding. It’s not like everyone looks like a model, but at least they’re presentable. I mean, most girls invite their friends, but it’s kind of an unwritten rule that you don’t invite your ugly friends.” Still, many Warner Hall members reported seeing unattractive male students at this year’s party. Remarked Warner Hall Secretary Catherine Ruzak ’07, “Did anyone see that kid with the big nose and all the acne? Nobody possibly could have invited that guy. And how about that fat guy wearing the WWF t-shirt? I don’t even think that he goes to Davidson.” Member Eleanor Smith-Klein ’07 agreed, “I saw so many guys there who definitely weren’t invited. One guy was standing so awkwardly in the corner wearing a Cat Pack t-shirt. It’s for damn sure that nobody in Warner has a crush on him.”

Invited male students also resented those students who sneaked in without being invited. Said Tom Parks ’07, who was invited by Warner sophomore Claire Ester, “I find it hard to relax when I look around and see all these losers there. I mean, come on, if you know you're ugly, you should not be at the Crush Party. Who do they think they’re fooling?” Greg Mass ’06 also believed that the uninvited guests took much of the fun away from those who were actually invited to the party. “I work out three times a week to look good, so it’s annoying when all these guys who have never even seen Baker come to a party for hot people.”

Some believe that there is not enough security to prevent uninvited students from crashing the party. Under Warner’s Crush Party protocol, guests are not required to show their invitations to gain admittance to the festivities. President Ali Tilliera ’05 wants to increase the security for the Crush Party. “Granted, in the past, uninvited guests have been a problem, but never to this level. I saw at least 15 guys who were downright ugly, weird, and probably live in singles in Tomlinson. If those guys were invited, then I really need to have a serious talk with my members, because no Warner girls that I want in my house would even have friends like those.” She continued, “Next year we will certainly be checking invitations. We are also looking into how to make the invitations more difficult to counterfeit, possibly using some sort of infrared system or bar codes. I am also doing research to see if coming to the Crush Party uninvited is a violation of the Honor Code.”