14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2005

Koehrn’s PK finishes off UNC-Wilmington

By SUZIE ECKL
Staff Writer

A win and a tie closed out the weekend for the women’s soccer team, who got their first win at
home this season.

On Friday, the ’Cats defeated UNC Wilmington 1-0 in a close match decided by Kristen Koehrn’s (’08) late penalty kick.
Just two days later, the team faced No. 25 Colorado College and took them to a 2-2 finish after 110
minutes of play.

“It was exciting,” said goaltender Bevin English ’08 after her second shutout of the season on Friday. “I really have
to give credit to my back line.”

Davidson’s defense was impenetrable and succeeded in keeping the Seahawks off of the scoreboard.

Both defensemen Nancy Haskell ’08 and Mel Smith ’09 stood out during the game making several clears out of the
box and holding back Wilmington’s dangerous offense.

Kristen Koehrn said of the defense, “They really showed their stuff and saved the game for us.”

Despite the outcome, the game did not begin well for the Wildcats. After a brief but heavy downpour, the teams
took the field and the opposing team dominated possession.

Coach Greg Ashton said the women were “out of sync” for the first few minutes of the game, and they
struggled under the pressure of UNC-Wilmington’s attack.

Nevertheless, the momentum soon swung in Davidson’s favor, leading to a more evenly matched contest.

What proved to be the game-winning goal came in the last five minutes of play. After her sister Kara Koehrn
’06 was fouled in the box, Koehrn drilled the ball into the net on a penalty kick.

“I was actually a little hesitant to take it because of the pressure that comes along with PKs,” she said.

On Sunday, the Wildcats did not outscore Colorado College, but the team expressed their excitement with the results.

Within the fourth minute of the game, the Koehrn sisters worked together to put one past the Tiger goalkeeper. Kara
Koehrn beat a defender down the end line and sent a pass right into the six-yard box.

Kristen Koehrn, in perfect position, found the ball and knocked it into the lower right corner of the net for
the goal. She is now tied with her sister in total scoring with three goals.

The ’Cats lead did not last long, as the Tigers responded with a corner kick that deflected off of English.
Continuing their offensive drive, Colorado College scored just three minutes later.

For almost an hour, the score hung at 2-1. The Wildcats persisted, mounting attack after attack, and in the 82nd
minute, they were rewarded. With a free kick from 30 yards out, Smith pounded home the game-tying goal.

“I had confidence that our team could put a second one away,” said Kristen Koehrn.

Her sister, echoing this sentiment, said that she “was surprised the goal didn’t come sooner. We were pushing them hard.”

After 90 minutes of play, both teams showed signs of fatigue, though Davidson came out strong to force Colorado’s goalkeeper
to make some close saves. Unfortunately for the Wildcats, they were unable to score any goals in the overtime periods.

The Colorado squad was also unable to finish, and the game ended in a tie.

Said Ashton, “The team didn’t really focus on where [the Tigers] were ranked. We went out to try to win
the game.”

Nevertheless, most of the team is happy to have played so well and to have shown its tenacity after coming
back from behind to tie the game.

According to Kara Koehrn, playing against schools such as Wake Forest, North Carolina, and Duke has readied the team for
bigger schools.

“We played an awesome game,” she said.

The games against UNC-W and Colorado College were just the second and third games at home for the Wildcats.

This week, the team will be preparing for their next home game at Chattanooga. The game will be the first
in a string of five conference matches for the team. Game time is set for 2 p.m. on Sunday.

---

Lil’ Malcolm and the Zydeco House Rockers

Monday, September 26
Baker Sports Arena
Doors at 6 PM, Show at 7 PM
General Admission

Davidson College students, faculty & staff
Free with your Cat Card ID

However, a Suggested Donation of $10 is recommended!

General Public: $10

100% of Donations will go to the Hurricane Relief Effort!

Tickets are available Monday - Friday at the Union Ticket Office (10 AM - 4 PM) Online at www.davidson.edu/tickets By
calling 704-894-2135 Or at the show!
