8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2005

Know the facts about oral contraceptives

By KATE WILLIAMS
Health Advisor

Many people have considered the health effects of OC (oral contraceptives, not the show). In fact, it is the most widely-researched medicine in history, and considering the fact that 80 percent of women in the US have taken birth control at some point in their lives, this should come as no surprise.

Modern combined hormonal contraceptives, which are different from the pill your mom took when Nixon was president, contain low dosages of estrogen (usually ethinyl estradiol) and progestins. Currently, there are nine different progestin compounds used, depending on the pill.

Oral contraceptives work hard for their 99 percent efficiency. The hormones in OC work in several different ways: first, they block your body’s natural luteinizing hormone surge, preventing ovulation. In the remote possibility your body still produces a viable egg while on birth control, the pill also thickens cervical mucus, effectively preventing sperm from reaching the fallopian tube (the site of fertilization). In addition, oral contraceptives alter the vascular structure and thus the composition of the endometrium, preventing a fertilized egg from implanting in the uterus.

It is critical to remember that birth control pills dramatically lose effectiveness if they are not taken every day at the same time. For those of us who find this inconvenient, other combined hormone contraceptives, such as the ring and the patch, are here to save the day.

With the widespread use of OC, it is important to understand the long-term health effects. Recent research indicates there are many possible health benefits for young women taking birth control, including: reduction in negative side effects of menstruation (including PMS), reduction in acne, an increase in HDL cholesterol and a decrease in LDL cholesterol, improved lung mechanics, reduced risk of developing endometrial and ovarian cancer, anemia, rheumatoid arthritis, and even osteoporosis.

The pill, however, is not perfect. Not only is it surprisingly difficult to take every day at the same time, it is also unsuitable for some women because it increases the risk for blood clots, hypertension, melanoma, gallbladder disease, breast cancer, Chlamydia, and HIV. However, any risk of side effects in healthy college-age women is vastly outweighed by the potential health benefits.

Although the pill is a safe and effective method to prevent pregnancy, it does nothing to prevent sexually transmitted diseases. Health experts recommend sexually active college women to pair OC and condoms in order to prevent STDs. Remember the mantra, safe sex is good sex.

Fortunately, there are a wide variety of pills and other contraceptive methods available on the market, which is both a blessing and a curse. As OC have become designed for specific body chemistries and personal desires, the process of matching yourself to a pill has become an increasingly daunting task.

WE'RE LOOKING FOR ARTISANS TO PERFORM AND DISPLAY THEIR WORK AT OUR NEW CORNELIUS LOCATION.

MUSICIANS and POETS: bring by a demo or examples of your work

ARTISTS: Pick up a display application to have your work displayed on a rotating basis.

19930 WEST CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS NEAR McALISTER’S DELI - Exit 28, off I-77.

704-896-1900
WWW.BENJERRY.COM/LAKENORMAN AND WWW.PORTCITYJAVA.COM

CALLING MUSICIANS, POETS, AND ARTISTS!

WE OPEN: MON-FRI 6AM, WEEKENDS 7AM

Blue Barnstormers last standing

Photo by Dorsett Clark

Lana Sims ’08, Lewis Beard ’07, Hall Cae ’07, and Russell Howard ’06 of the Blue Barnstormers walked away from the battle with first for their harmonic tunes.

John Leverette ’05 added a flavor of rap to the show.

Photo by Jared McKiernan

Anders Olson ’07 and Ty White ’07 of The Winter of Our Discontent spoofed emo music with their grating performance.

Bonsai Grill and Sushi Bar
Bonsai Grill...Great Sushi, Chinese, and Thai in a cozy little place on 101 Depot Street, Davidson

Tel.: 704-892-2641
Fax: 704-895-8376
(Please call to confirm all faxed orders)
OPEN 6 DAYS A WEEK
LUNCH: (Mon.-Fri.) 11:00 am-2:30 pm
(Sat.) 11:30 am-2:30 pm
DINNER: (Mon.-Thurs.) 5:00 pm-9:30 pm
(Fri.-Sat.) 5:00 pm-10:00 pm

Come and check out our lunch menus... Hibachi Chicken, Pad Thai and more, starting only from $4.95. Awesome sweet tea!

We will be open Sunday, May 8th for Mother's Day.