THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tenure, from page 1

regularly reviewed by tenured professors. “You have an opportunity to review courses,” Ryan Aponte ’07 said, “but I don’t think
it’s that big of an opportunity.” Janelle Milanes ’07 complained about a professor who diverged greatly from a syllabus and
neglected to have structure in the course. Like Ruble, she felt her course failed to live up to Davidson’s rigor
and organization. “While I want to protect the idea of tenure, and thus academic freedom, I want to know that
when I evaluate a professor poorly, someone looks into the incident and makes sure no one is abusing the ‘freedom’
they've been given.” --Julie Ruble ’06

Ross, however, has a high bar for serious concerns with courses. Concerns with style are not among them. Serious concerns,
he said, include not attending classes, not assigning reading, grading irregularly or with bias, and harassment. “The Davidson faculty is
by and large just extraordinary and excellent,” Ross said. “In my experience, problems with individual instances are far and rare.”
Ross sees many complaints as issues of style, which he defends in the interest of diverse approaches to teaching. “I
would never want to see a fear of complaint to homogenize teaching approaches,” he said. Ross gave the example of
his introductory economics course. He thinks the most appropriate way to teach that course is by lecturing, even though some
students have complained about it in the past.

Ruble, however, found fault with her professor’s style in the aims for the course. “While I want to protect the
idea of tenure, and thus academic freedom, I want to know that when I evaluate a professor poorly, someone looks
into that incident and makes sure no one is abusing the ‘freedom’ they’ve been given,” Ruble said.

The Tenure Process

According to the Faculty Policies handbook, a professor must demonstrate “professional competence, service to the academic community, and commitment to
the welfare of the College” before he can receive that freedom and security. After six years of service, a professor
on tenure track can be considered for tenure. Davidson’s tenure process weighs performance in the classroom very heavily, according to
Tenure Committee Chair and History Department Chair Dr. Sally McMillen.

“Teaching is number one,” McMillen said. “We look very carefully at student evaluation and at letters students write on the
professor’s behalf.” McMillen said scholarship, such as research, published materials, and conference attendance, is second in importance. Service to the
community has the least significance for tenure. “Davidson does a really good job of letting people know whether they have
a good chance of getting tenure,” Sellers said, explaining why he believes Davidson has a large percentage of tenured professors.

Before the tenure process in the sixth year, the professor undergoes a second-year and a fourth-year review by his or
her department chair and the dean of faculty. “I really feel it’s a good process,” McMillen said. This year 11
professors are up for tenure. Last year only four were considered. The number each year is a function of when
professors came to the college, so it can vary greatly. Thirty-seven professors out of the 155 currently at Davidson do
not have tenure, about 24 percent of the faculty.

Tenure and the Classroom

According to Ross, most professors at Davidson choose different styles of teaching, which may cause students to fault their professors
and blame tenure. Many students, however, have never had a professor fail to appropriately teach the intended material, whether or
not they are tenured. “I’ve never noticed a difference between tenured and untenured professors and between professors before and after
they’ve been tenured,” Bo Barley ’07 said. “Some of the professors that have been tenured for a long time are
good professors.”

Sellers, however, believes that further review of professors would ensure that courses are on par with Davidson’s level of organization
and rigor, regardless of style. Professors, he said, do not talk about the results of their evaluations unless the course
is taught by multiple teachers. “Obviously it depends on the professors, but you can’t really neglect what your students are
saying since the college is so small,” Bill DeVoe ’07 said. DeVoe said he had a couple of professors who
gave anonymous midterm course evaluations, similar to those at the end of the semester. He thinks more professors should do
this, because it shows they really care what students think about their classroom experience.

President Bobby Vagt agrees that student opinions about their courses are essential to the Davidson academic experience. “It’s absolutely vital
that there are steps taken ifA student is unhappy with a course,” Vagt said. “What goes on in the classroom
is what we’re all about.” And study abroad means the University Studies Abroad Consortium where you can choose from 25
countries. Come soak up the vibrant culture and be transformed by the experience. We offer personalized attention from start to
finish.

- Summer, semester, and yearlong programs
- Wide range of academic courses
- Internships
- Language courses at all levels
- Field trips and tours
- Small classes
- University credit
- Scholarships
- Housing

A USAC representative may be coming to campus.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2005

Sandy Salazar ’06 and the boys from Tara Hall watch eggs fall during an egg drop.

Alternative Breaks help spark interest in ‘unusual’ service
By CHRISTINE HIGHET
Staff Writer

The Alternative Breaks program at Davidson sent 33 students to various parts of the country to take part in different
community service projects over Fall Break. The Alternative Breaks program is a national organization, but Davidson’s program differs from many
others in that the college funds the trips.

Elizabeth Henry ’08 and Will Perreault ’06 led a group of seven to Asheville, where they worked with Mountain Housing
Opportunities (MHO), an organization that helps with emergency home repair. Davidson has worked with MHO on many previous Alternative Break
trips, as well as on Service Odysseys and Bonner Scholar retreats. This year, the Davidson group built an accessibility ramp
for a handicapped woman and aided MHO in a few clean-up tasks.

“It was a great way to learn more about issues of equality and service in our area and about the
steps that are being taken by groups and individuals to better our community,” Henry said.

The second group, led by Leah Swaney ’08 and Daniel Clayton ’07, traveled to Atlanta, where they worked with Project
Open Hand to make and deliver meals to the elderly and AIDS patients around Atlanta.

In Georgetown, SC, a group of students led by Sandy Salazar ’06 and Ethan Case ’08 worked with the Tara
Hall Home for Boys, an organization that provides homes for abused or troubled boys. The students spent time with and
bonded with the boys.

The fourth group, led by Laura Beach ’07 and Jon Holbrook ’07, volunteered with the Energy Xchange, a company in
Burnsville, NC whose main focus is alternative energy sources in the area. For the first two days, they transplanted plants
into greenhouses completely run on alternative power sources and heated by methane gas. On the last day of service, the
group worked at the home of a couple who have been building an “earthship” for almost four years. Their “earthship”
is a completely self-sustained house made of recycled materials, including tires that would otherwise be left to sit in landfills.
The house is powered by solar panels that charge batteries to allow for electricity at night.

“Ultimately, it looks like a normal house, but [it’s] way cooler, and a lot more natural,” Kyle Konrad ’09 said.
The group helped build one-story, non-load bearing interior and exterior walls made of soda cans.

“The trip was mind-blowing, to say the least,” said Konrad. “The group that I went with was probably the greatest
group of people ever. Each and every one of them grew in some way on the trip, and now, not
only are they really awesome friends, but we all learned so much.”

The program is part of United Community Action (UCA) and is entirely student-run. Kelly Williams ’06 and Christina Evans ’06
planned and coordinated this year’s trips. Williams has led four trips and been on six; Evans had led one and
been on four.

“The great thing about these trips,” Evans said, “is getting the opportunity to put in practice the ideas we talk
about in school. You just feel so refreshed at the end of every trip. It’s great.”

Evans and Williams use a website to select the trips, which are held during Fall and Spring Breaks. Williams and
Evans may also plan a trip over winter break.

“With trips like these,” Evans said, “you really become more conscious of what’s going on around you. It’s cool because
it helps to spark an interest in something unusual.”

RIBS...EAT IN OR TAKE OUT...RIBS & GRILL

15% OFF WITH CATCARD!

GOURMET FLAME BROILED ALL-BEEF “JUMBO” HOT DOGS SERVED ON GRIDDLE TOASTED ROLLS, GERMAN BRATS, SWEET ITALIAN SAUSAGE, POLISH KIELBASA &
OUR OWN PORK BAR-B-QUE, BEAR’S BEST “SN8” PHILLY STEAKS & CHICKENSTEAKS

9709-B SAM FURR SHOPPING CENTER NC 1-77 EXIT 25 RT #73 “EASY OFF/EASY ON”

Hours: Daily 11AM-9PM; Closed Sunday
Phone Number: (704) 895-2692
www.buzzyandbearsgrill.com
