THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2005 7

Fresh from the Coop

Upcoming: The Souper Bowl!

By Ty WHITE
Special Contributor

Tucked away in the stadium area of downtown Charlotte lies a little piece of heaven. At first glance, Price’s Chicken
Coop is just a run-down, hole-in-the-wall chicken shack. Look closer, though, and you will see lines of dedicated customers streaming
out the front doors. “I been comin’ here since I was a boy,” notes an elderly Price’s devotee. The Coop
opened over 50 years ago and is built on tradition: one location, no seating, closed on Sundays and on Mondays,
no checks, no credit cards, and the same delicious recipe.

The skinny on Price’s:
Location: 1614 Camden Road (exit 10A off Camden)
Hours: Tuesday-Saturday 10am-6pm
Website: www.priceschickencoop.com

The workers all don white garments, aptly reminiscent of angels. The most important employee to notice is the “expert fryer,”
as we have come to call him. His large stature and effervescent smile dominate the room from his position at
the helm of the deep fryers. The rest of the employees work frantically to satisfy the endless stream of patrons,
throwing boxes together like a loving mother making her kids’ lunches in the morning while she’s running late for a
meeting.

So, you might be asking, “Once I have arrived at this heralded spot, what do I do next?” Well, let
this be a virgin’s guide to Price’s Chicken Coop:

First, make sure you’re in line. This can get confusing, especially at high traffic times (usually around midday—it doesn’t get
very busy for dinner). Second, place your order. One box of Price’s chicken satisfies the stomach for a full day.
Third, have your money ready. There are always many starving people behind you, and you don’t want it to get
ugly. The chicken is addictive and people’s nerves are not easily quelled until the chicken hits their lips. Fourth, CHOMP!
There is no seating inside, so either enjoy your nectar of the gods on the nearby picnic benches or, in
the case of inclement weather, find respite in your own car. Caution: do not chomp and drive—you may fall into
a trance of scrumptiousness. Finally, spread the gospel of Price’s. Join the “Friends of Price’s Chicken Coop” group on thefacebook.com.
Tell all your friends about your life-changing experience. Most importantly, make Price’s Chicken a Davidson tradition. It’s that good.

Flu sufferers, stay in!

By THE HEALTH ADVISORS
Special Contributors

A few months ago, the Health Advisors and Georgia Ringle started making battle plans—plans that would help us attack flu
ignorance, should such a thing happen at Davidson College. Oh, we made up a brilliant form of attack while sipping
our mochas at Summit. We decided to start off with a bulletin board (located on the front floor of Chambers),
then do a flu table, and, “oooh, oooh, we could do those fun toilet papers!” We decided we would educate
everyone about flu symptoms, how they come about, etc., etc.

Well, folks, apparently the message isn’t getting through as much as we would like. Now it’s scare tactic time: Why
are you going to class with the flu, fools? Don’t you know what you’re doing? Recently, Health Adviser Steven Gentile
’06 found himself sitting beside...People coughing their heads off in class—not only disrupting him from the beautiful lectures of his
professors (wink wink, nod nod), but spreading their germs to the whole class! What you have is contagious. The flu
might seem like a relatively harmless illness compared to, say, SARS, but the flu can kill. Sure, our young, healthy
bodies can take on the flu and come away walking, but, “What about the children!?” A lot of the faculty
and staff have young children at home that could potentially die from the flu. Furthermore, the elderly are at the
biggest risk and some of them haven’t gotten their flu shot yet. So, what are we trying to tell you?
Don’t go to class. That’s right, don’t go to class. Your professors are fully aware of the problem, and most
of them are grateful when you tell them you can’t make it due to your illness. They don’t want to
carry this sickness back to their families. And by class, we mean any group activities—any activities that encourage close contact
with many people. Finally, as Georgia is quick to tell anyone, if you find that you have an onset of
flu symptoms, walk over to the Health Center or call them (x2300). Once you’re diagnosed, the HC will administer some
medicine (good medicine, we might add), and then you are to quarantine yourself. Play solitaire, solve world hunger, get far
ahead in your studies, but, most importantly, rest. Please, take our advice, or mandates, if you will. We are Health
Advisors, anyhow, aren’t we? As the Beatles would have put it, “Hey, you’ve got to hide your [flu] away.” Can
you guess which Health Advisor decided to include that corny line? We apologize.

The service director, Davidson Housing Coalition (DHC), and Our Town’s Habitat for Humanity began working on this project two years
ago. Sarah Caitlin Mattingly ’06 worked with DHC as an intern in 2003. She named the new organization, helped write
the job description and develop grant proposals, and birthed the idea of a Souper Bowl in order to help fund
the project. Calling all fans of soup, the Generals, bad puns, and, of course, helping the less fortunate: AR Technical
Institute and Rotary Club are sponsoring the event. Tickets, which cost $10 for adults, $6 for students, and $3 for
children, may be purchased for the event in the Union next to the information desk this week (Monday-Friday, 11:30 am-1:30
pm and 5:30-7:00 pm). Pre-purchasing tickets saves students $2—the price goes up to $8 Saturday. So pick your ticket ahead
of time and get excited about the looming competition.

CARTOONISTS WANTED. EMAIL DAVIDSONIAN@DAVIDSON.EDU

Senior Class Gift Update: 50% of the Senior Class have paid their pledge! Congratulations Seniors! The Senior Class Gift has
reached over 50% PAID PARTICIPATION! If the class of 2005 achieves 75% PAID PARTICIPATION, President and Mrs. Vagt will make
a gift of $12,005. To pay your pledge or make a gift, you may visit our secure website at www.davidson.edu/giving.
Checks can be made payable to Davidson College and mailed to: Maria Tardugno, The Annual Fund Box 7170. If you
have questions, please contact Maria Tardugno at x2113 or matardugno@davidson.edu.
