THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2005

Lilly, from page 3

that each individual faces or has faced, and each benefits from the insights of the other. Students are paired with
their adult counterparts based upon their personalities, the things that excite them, and the issues that they wish to address
in their lives; however, pairs are not necessarily assigned based upon the adult’s employment and the student’s vocational interests. This
year’s sophomore class includes 30 students in the mentoring program. Sarah Allen ’08 described her mentor, former President of Davidson
College Dr. John W. Kuykendall, as “a great listener, full of good advice, and a joy to get to know.”

“I’m grateful that the Lilly Programs offer sophomores this opportunity to explore their vocation while also getting to know a
member of the larger Davidson community,” Allen said. “There seems to be so little time to do this in the
midst of Davidson’s business without a formal structure such as what Lilly offers.”

The Lilly Programs also host monthly dinners that give sophomores a chance to engage in dialogue about vocational choices and
other issues. The dinners also give sophomores a chance to interact with people from different cultures, religions, and societies. According
to Timberman, when one’s values are challenged by people who are different, that individual is forced to ask difficult questions
and to take action. “Students have to reorganize their senses of who they are,” Timberman said.

For students interested in ongoing discussions, the Lilly Programs also offer sustained dialogue groups. These groups, open to all students,
meet between two and four times per semester. The discussions are facilitated by students who have previously participated in a
sustained dialogue group. The goal of the sustained dialogue groups, according to Timberman, is “to allow students to deeply and
passionately own a position and yet to be open to other people’s positions.” The groups discuss divisive issues, like the
recent clash between the women’s committee and the Yowl and racial and religious issues. There are currently about 25 participants
amongst the sustained dialogue groups, but Timberman hopes to double that number.

The Lilly Programs, which are currently transitioning from their initial outside endowment to permanent college funding, promote the idea that
the exploration of vocation from religious, moral, and ethical perspectives leads to a more fulfilling life experience and creates solidarity
in group settings.

Young Life, from page 1

“The rub, of course, is figuring out how to define what are ‘appropriate’ criteria for discrimination,” said College Chaplain Rob
Spach. “And to do that, one must be rooted somewhere, in some tradition, philosophical or religious.”

All YL leaders must sign a statement to abide by YL’s “Faith and Conduct Policies.” This document includes, among other
statements, the organization’s principle articles of faith and its sexual misconduct policy. On the basis of Biblical interpretation, these YL
policies explicitly prohibit homosexual “activity,” illegal sexual offenses, “sexual relations and activities with any person outside of the marriage covenant,”
and “any other sexual relations or activities which are contrary to the theological and moral affirmations of YL’s ministry.” These
prohibitions, however, only apply to leaders and volunteers, not to general participants in the organization.

“We do not in any way wish to exclude persons who engage in sexual misconduct or who practice a homosexual
lifestyle from being recipients of ministry of God’s grace and mercy as expressed in Jesus Christ,” states the YL policy
paper.

According to YL leader Kenzo Koike ’06, requests to become a student organization “all had been previously denied because Young
Life was selective in its leaders and therefore not open to everyone.” According to William Brown, College Union Director and
Coordinator of Student Activities, the College has approved the YL request based on the Quest program, a semester-long Bible study
and discussion group open to all students. YL will have to submit organizational bylaws that stipulate the openness of the
Quest program.

Several years ago, the College informally ruled that discrimination was “appropriate” among organizational leadership when it allowed InterVarsity to require
its leaders to sign its doctrinal statement. InterVarsity’s bylaws, though similar to YL’s Faith and Conduct Policies, do not mention
or prohibit homosexual orientation or activity. President Bobby Vagt, after consultations with Dean of Students Tom Shandley and Davidson’s lawyer,
decided that YL’s specific request does not violate the college’s policy of “non-discrimination.”issue,” said Vagt. “We make our decisions in
specific sets of facts as they come forward.” National fraternities may legally discriminate on the basis of gender, according to
federal law, and therefore college policy. Similarly, sports teams may discriminate against physically disabled persons based on the nature and
function of the sports team. Spach said that “in these contexts, ‘discrimination’ is not in and of itself an evil,
but a way for these communities to discern who is appropriately a part of that community.”

“From a Christian perspective,” he said, “‘discrimination’ can be evil when its purpose is based not on appropriate discernment but
on keeping another group down or dehumanizing others.” Koike said in response, “I am very excited that Young Life is
now recognized as an official organization. Logistically it will be a huge help to be able to use campus resources,
and it is great for the morale of current and prospective leaders.”

The status of a student organization allows YL to reserve campus facilities for meetings, fundraise and post fliers on campus,
and apply for funding through the Activities Tax Council.

Parties, from page 1

“policy in the past,” Patterson Court Advisor Joy Hamm said. “In two and a half years in this position, this
only became a problem about three or four weeks ago.” Patterson Court Council President Annie Butler ’06 feels the policy
has caused students to become more serious about registering impromptus. “People are paranoid right now because of the changes in
the policy and are doing their best to register so as to avoid trouble,” Butler said.

Some students feel that the college is excessively regulating weekday court activities in the name of their potential to disrupt
academic performance. PCC Defense Advisor Jack Hubbard ’06, however, believes that the frequency of social life on campus should be
independent of the quality of academic life. “As adults I feel houses have the right to have parties whenever they
want insofar as they abide by the risk management rules appropriately,” Hubbard said. “We are ultimately responsible for our performance
in class.”

“It is my understanding that the policy was put into place to strike a balance between competing interests of faculty,
staff, and students,” Hamm said. Other students believe the impromptu rule will cause weekday social functions to move off campus.
While PCC requires registered parties to have risk managers, there are no safety regulations for off-campus parties. “If on-campus parties
are restricted, students will inevitably go to off-campus houses during the week—where there is no officer to monitor trespassers,” SGA
Vice-President Bridget Kane ’06 said. “Non-Davidson people will have an easier time crashing the party, and if they cause trouble,
there is definitely a higher risk to our students.”

This risk comes in part from the fact that town police and the criminal justice system usually handle incidents at
off-campus parties, whereas on-campus parties can be monitored by the college’s Campus Safety force. The reputation of the college and
the criminal record of revelers are both at risk. Another concern raised by SGA for off-campus gatherings is that students
put themselves in more danger when returning home.

This year’s changes to the alcohol policy also enforced harsher punishments for students who host parties in which underage students
play drinking games. According to Dean of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano, the alcohol policy is a continuous renewal process based
on the college’s needs. Marsicano, who chaired the last alcohol task force last semester, said issues with the impromptu rule
did not arise until this semester.

“It’s possible that [now] more groups are trying to have weekday parties,” Marsicano said. “It may be that they were
better in previous years in planning ahead.” Student leaders have said there was no discussion of these possible complications from
policy changes while the policy was being formulated last year. A group of students, faculty, and staff appointed by Dean
of Students Tom Shandley reviews the alcohol policy every two years to recommend changes and ensure it adequately represents those
it serves. Changing the alcohol policy in between reviews is possible and depends on the consideration of both student welfare
and effective operation of the college.

Four fraternity presidents—David McManama of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Win Smith of Kappa Sigma, Joe Cheaney of Kappa Alpha Order, and
Pat Nakahara of Pi Kappa Alpha—have written to Shandley to protest the policy and to seek clarification about the extent
of the restrictions. “This rule is even more destructive this semester when all of the [fraternity] houses are rushing,” McManama
said. The Council for Campus and Religious Life will take up the SGA’s concerns next week.
