THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Vocational Vertigo to continue despite shrinking budget

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Staff Writer

Despite a shrinking budget, the Lilly Programs for the Theological Exploration of Vocation are continuing their sophomore programming through the
Sophomore Retreat, mutual mentoring, monthly dinners, and sustained dialogue groups. Sophomore programming began with the inception of the Lilly Programs
four years ago. Former Director of Sophomore Programming Jill Williams conceived of sophomore year as significant to Davidson students as
they declare majors, consider study abroad options, and start to seriously contemplate their lives after graduation.

“The programs tend to attract people who are multi-faceted, multi-talented, and hoping that some series of experiences or reflections will
help them to sort out the next right step without being put into a box,” said Director of Sophomore Programming
Lorren Timberman. “People assume that they’re so competent that they’ll figure it out on their own, and they can, but
it will take longer, so why not let people who have thought about it guide them?”

The Lilly Programs seek to facilitate the important decisions that sophomores face by encouraging deep contemplation and frank conversations with
others who are facing or have faced similar issues. The first opportunity to become involved with the Lilly Programs during
one’s sophomore year occurs just before the start of the fall semester with the Sophomore Retreat. The four-day program in
the mountains of North Carolina encourages students to begin considering the issues that they will face in the coming year.

“Beyond the workshops themselves, which were great venues through which to raise these questions, the environment was so separated from
the rest of our lives that we didn’t need to worry about getting homework done or sending out e-mails,” Nathan
Bradshaw ’08 said. “Instead, we were free to really get into issues of college and career choices, vocation, and what
really matters to us without the usual artificial feeling that such discussions often have.”

“People assume that they're so competent that they'll figure it out on their own, and they can, but it will
take longer, so why not let people who have thought about it guide them?” --Lorren Timberman, Director of Sophomore Programming

This year, the Sophomore Retreat, entitled “Vocational Vertigo,” hosted 46 participants. Unlike past retreats, which have attracted more men than
women, this year’s program drew an equal number of male and female students. The Lilly Programs also sponsor the mutual
mentoring program in which sophomores are paired with adult members of the Davidson community. A mentoring pair meets to discuss
issues.

See Lilly, page 5

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2005

Senators concentrate on environment, internships

By CURISSY HIGHET
Staff Writer

The Student Government Association (SGA) is currently focusing on two major goals: internship credit and environmental awareness. Davidson’s current internship
policy does not offer credit or recognition on transcripts for internships other than the “Davidson in Washington” summer program. In
the past, students have expressed frustration and concern over this policy. The goal of the Internship Committee, chaired by SGA
Vice President Bridget Kane ’06, is to “research policies at peer institutions and work with the registrar to evaluate this
issue and lobby for change.”

At the meeting, the committee shared the results of the research done in regards to internship policies at peer institutions.
Most peer institutions that granted credit for internships required students to obtain faculty sponsorship, in addition to completing prep and
follow-up work, including research, a major paper and/or presentations. As a result of their research, the committee concluded that a
change in Davidson’s policy may not be necessary. According to Kane, after talking to the Registrar and Professor and Chair
of the Political Science Department Mary Thornberry, the committee realized that the requirements for internship credit at peer institutions are
similar to Davidson’s independent study option. “A Davidson student, with the permission and involvement of a faculty advisor, could integrate
a valuable internship into an independent study,”Kane said. The committee also became aware of options for half-credit, non-graduation credit, pass/fail
credit, and others. Students should also know that Davidson is willing to accept workplace liability for its students. Some internships
refuse students from institutions that do not give credit, with a concern about liability. This issue can be avoided if
the student takes the time to meet with the Registrar and fill out the appropriate paperwork. “Davidson’s policy, though requiring
more student initiative, guarantees graduation credit just as in a regular independent study course,” Kane said.

SGA members also discussed the necessity of increasing awareness about environmental problems throughout campus. Chairman of the Environmental Committee and
Freshman President Richmond Blake ’09 will lead the Environmental Committee in SGA’s first real environmental initiative. The SGA Environmental Committee
is currently working on educating students about environmental utilities on campus. The committee also wants to share ideas about how
students can protect the environment while also conserving money and energy. “The committee has met with the Environmental Action Committee
(EAC) and will work with them to make Davidson students more environmentally aware and responsible,” Kane said. Many ideas were
formulated, ranging from an educational nature walk to a build-your-own-recycling-bin hall activity. The committee is also working on the idea
of making a recycling video to be played before speeches in Duke. Other suggestions included using reusable plates instead of
paper plates in the Union and also implementing a recycling system for the order papers used for meals. The committee
wanted to advocate the use of CAT Cupps and promote how much water and electricity the campus is using. In
addition, the SGA hopes to increase recycling on Patterson Court.

SCC, from page 1

The SCC does not always make a diagnosis because many students’ problems are situational. Frequent “diagnostic impressions” are adjustment disorder,
depression/bipolar disorder, and anxiety disorders. Stanton says his staff is “able to handle about anything that is typically done on
an outpatient basis in the private practice sphere, including depression, anxiety disorders, and eating disorders.” While all the SCC staff
are trained to deal with general psychological problems, some also have specific areas of interest. Confidentiality is guaranteed at the
SCC, and students’ SCC records are separate from their school medical records. While the counselors are able to deal with
most problems, resources can be limited. Currently, the SCC provides 10 free sessions to each student per year. If students
require more than 10 sessions, they can pay the SCC or see private practitioners. According to Staton, this second situation
is becoming more of a possibility as the volume of students visiting the SCC increases, even though it has a
new counselor this year. Though the SCC does not have a psychiatrist on staff, a psychiatrist comes in every two
weeks to talk to students who might benefit from psychotropic medications. Students are charged for this service, but it saves
them the time and effort of finding and scheduling an appointment with a doctor off campus.

Staton believes that the high SCC participation rate shows that most Davidson students are not afraid to seek help. He
is concerned, however, that some students who would benefit from the SCC’s services are failing to do so for a
number of reasons from “personal factors and beliefs to lingering social stigma.” Although the SCC does want to make sure
students are aware of its services, Stanton said as long as they post no threat to themselves and others, students
are free to choose whether or not they seek therapy. Stanton said students should all know “that top quality clinical
services are available at the Student Counseling Center, with all of their clinicians licensed to provide counseling or psychotherapy,” and
that they “have chosen the campus setting because they like to work with the student population, and they are experienced
in addressing the kinds of issues students have.”
