THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2005 = 7

some like it hot...
By ELIZABETH BURKHEAD AND SARA SAMS
Arts & Living Editors

If you’ve begun to lose hope of ever arranging a nice intimate dinner with the one who makes your heart
flutter due to a declining bank balance or absence of stylish wheels to get you off campus, worry no more.
A bountiful meal in Vail Commons drains a declining balance of a mere seven dollars and offers an amazing variety
(if not always quality) of food. Something can be found to please even the most sensitive palates and stomachs, a
crucial criterion for both a date evening and a solitary mid-day lunch.

The cafeteria experience must, however, be approached carefully, so we braved the waters to sample a typical Monday’s lunch menu
to provide a helpful guide to your Commons encounter.

For an attractive dining experience, atmosphere is everything. We strongly suggest dining in the Harrison Room, apart from the sports
television and accumulating student lines. We also support the decision to place your tray outside, where tables provide a more
leafy and naturally-lit environment (a good option, as long as you avoid the bees).

Accumulating a balanced meal with a plethora of not-too-enticing selections can be difficult. The pseudo-vegetarian at our table enjoyed a
meal of only Vegetarian (V) menu selections. The eggplant Parmesan was one of the more delectable meatless plates available. Relative
to other line options (slightly scary steamed broccoli), the eggplant was unctuous. It was quite flavorful with the right proportion
of mozzarella, and soft enough without requiring the teeth to over-chew. Go for the EP Parm any time you see
it headlined.

Going the meatier route, chicken Parm always pleases—just make sure you go to Commons a little late, which not only
will allow the crowd to die down but also the sauce to soak into the chicken. If you time it
just right (12:50 has proven to be the optimal arrival time), the breading should be the perfect delectable blend of
crispness and sogginess.

Cuidado, amigo! This week’s specials are very picante. The sandwich bar offers the Southwestern Turkey sandwich, which stacks Chipotle turkey,
cheddar cheese, banana peppers, lettuce, tomato, and red pepper mayonnaise on a rich sourdough bread. Consuming the entire ’wich, though,
proved to be extremely difficult, not only because of its staggering height but also because of the relentless intensity of
its flavors. For expert sandwich-chompers only!

If you’re into hot chicks—hot chick peas, that is—go for this week’s hummus special, Smokin’ Black Bean, on grilled sourdough.
It offers a little extra

Coming out
Once again, questions posed anonymously by the campus community:

I’ve been questioning my sexuality for a while and think I’m gay. I’m sick of hearing people assume everyone is
straight. Sometimes I feel alone or made to feel different, which makes me definitely not want to come out. Are
people just being small-minded, or is it homophobia?

Your concerns are valid and, unfortunately, quite common. There is an important distinction, however, between the small-mindedness you mention and
homophobia. In the broadest definition of the word, heterosexism refers to the assumption that everyone is or should be heterosexual.
This is a cultural norm to which Westerners have become accustomed and is probably much more prevalent than homophobia at
Davidson.

Most students will assume a date to a Court function must be of the opposite sex, for example. And many
among us will presuppose that our peers have never experienced homosexual intimacy. As is true of most assumptions, they are
often wrong.

Homophobia, however, is defined as an intense hatred towards or fear of gay men and lesbian women. Thankfully, homophobia is
almost certainly less common on the Davidson campus, but you should not take for granted that it does not exist.
For all of its openness and acceptance, Davidson College represents a larger community of varied beliefs, some of which are
hostile to homosexuality.

According to many non-heterosexual Davidson students, though, being “out” on campus rarely leads to outright prejudice. That is not to
say, however, that gay students do not encounter more subtle biases every day, but overt intolerance is atypical. Please remember
that being open about one’s homosexuality is a constant struggle between increasing understanding and encouraging acceptance.

Davidson men want to know. Davidson women want Davidson men to know. Please, for the good of us all, tell
us where the g-spot is!heat, though the spice does not overpower the sandwich (which is delightful with honey mustard). This
week’s pizza special is not for the faint of heart or faint of colon. “The Super Supreme” boasts an intimidating
conglomeration of toppings: pepperoni, salami, sausage, tomatoes, red onions, black olives, mozzarella, and pizza sauce, all synergizing to create a
unique cornucopia of sensations. Just make sure that you don’t have anything (or anyone) important to do after mealtime and
chase the meal with a smooth, refreshing cone of Mint Chocolate Chunk soft-serve. The simultaneously best and worst thing about
Commons is that you can keep going until you shout, “Enough! I’m done.” While you are not limited to measly
morsels (in fact, small portions can be quite difficult to acquire), you must pay careful attention to your own hunger
level. Overconsumption is easy, especially if your taste buds remain slightly unfulfilled.

Learning from “Take Back the Night”
By STEVEN GENTILE
Health Advisor

Recently, Davidson men and women got the opportunity to “reclaim the night” by talking about their sexual assault and abuse
experiences. What did we, as a student body, learn from their talks? One thing to take from the night is
that it takes a community to help prevent such horrid occurrences. Fellow men, it is not okay for your friend
to sexually harass a woman — no matter how drunk he or she is. Take, for instance, the dance floor.
If you see your fellow comrade groping on the dance floor while dancing, make it your business to stop the
incident! What is happening or is about to happen may seriously damage the girl. Furthermore, the girl may, and should,
press charges against your friend. It is to everyone’s best interest for you to intervene. Do it subtly, if you
want — you don’t have to make a scene. Take your friend aside, save the girl by stepping in and
dancing with her, or... make a scene. You should do whatever you can do to save the woman.

Women, you’re needed in this manner, too. If you are sexually harassed, do not brush it off. What is happening
to you is wrong — it’s never okay. Sure, you may not have a problem with the incident; or, if
the guy is your friend, you may not want to cause any harm by pressing charges. Even though you may
tolerate the offensive behavior, the next girl may not. The guy can cause serious harm to the next girl, physical
and emotional. Stop this behavior by intervening early on. The emotional and physical distress of the offended far outweighs any
punishment the offender should receive. It takes a community to prevent sexual harassment. Set aside your close friendship ties if
your friend causes pain to another. Finally, gender-biased roles were used in this article simply for convenience. Sexual harassment happens
both ways — man to woman, woman to man, man to man, and woman to woman. In any case, it
takes all of us to prevent these incidents from occurring.

Condoms, and Better Sex

Ah, the age-old question. The best and most concise description comes courtesy of Davidson’s Health Advisors: insert the index and
middle finger into the vagina and do a “come hither” motion, i.e., pulling the fingers in a circular motion toward
the wrist. Unlike the clitoris, which projects from nearby tissue, the g-spot rests deep within the vaginal wall. Using firm
pressure, the lima-bean-sized g-spot responds to stimulation by hardening and swelling, much like the male’s penis. Many women describe an
orgasm reached through g-spot stimulation as deep and long-lasting, whereas clitoral stimulation often produces a more intense but significantly shorter
orgasm.

Is there a difference between “ultra-sensitive” condoms and regular condoms? Do the thinner condoms break easier? There is no reliable
evidence on the rates of breakage of thin condoms versus regular condoms, but rest assured that both types of condoms
are approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration as effective prophylactics. Use whichever type of condom provides the most
satisfaction and safety for everyone involved. Condom breakage is almost always caused by user error and very rarely by the
condom itself. Remember to use water- and not oil-based lubricants for the condom, and always beware of the condom’s expiration
date. Also, be careful of exposing condoms to extreme temperatures which may cause them to more easily tear. One of
the most common reasons for condoms to fail is not leaving enough room at the tip of the condom for
the male’s ejaculate. Finally, one must be sure to hold the rim of the condom by the base of the
penis when withdrawing to ensure no ejaculate is released accidentally.

Titillatingly,
Dr. Secksgawd
davidsonian@davidson.edu
