THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2005 13

New lifting coach an inspiration to athletes

By IAN JOHNSON
Guest Contributor

Ask Evan Simon if he’s liberal or conservative, and he’ll probably tell you how your political ideology can affect your
bench press max. Ask him if he’s seen “Wedding Crashers,” and he’ll probably bring up how reading celebrity magazines can
improve your form on tricep extensions. Ask him about the workout video he’s in wearing old-school Chuck Taylors and spandex,
and he’ll probably just laugh.

You may not know the definition of a reverse lumbar pull, but by the time you finish reading this, you’ll
know that Davidson’s head strength and conditioning coach Evan Simon does, in addition to hundreds of other lifts and techniques
that are making Davidson’s athletes quicker and stronger every day.

“I loved athletics,” Simon said. “Being a strength coach seemed like the perfect fit for me. All I needed was
the opportunity.” He’s giving student-athletes here an opportunity, too: the chance to not only show up three afternoons a week
and lift weights, but to inject themselves with weightlifting lessons and knowledge that they can carry with them long after
the buzzer sounds on the playing field.

Weightlifting seems to seep into all aspects of his life. As I entered his office to conduct this interview, Simon
doused his hands with lifting chalk and blasted “Hatebreed,” his favorite inspirational lifting band, on the stereo. After doing a
few quick stretches, he finally sat down and faced me. “Ok, now I’m ready.”

He may not be that extreme, but his presence is being felt, especially in opponents' aches and pains after games.
After arriving last November after almost three years as a paid intern at the University of Kentucky, he now has
the brand sparkling new Doe Weight Room under the football bleachers to complement his passion, dream, and effort.

Photo courtesy of College Communications
Evan Simon, the new strength coach

“My goals for all the athletic teams here under myself and my assistant is for our athletes to see strength
and power gains, enjoy what they’re doing, and have all the athletes and coaches use our strength and conditioning program
as a selling point,” he said.

So far the response has been tremendous, enough so that he can’t go a week without a call from a
cop asking for cardio advice. “Coach Simon is a wonderful addition to Davidson Athletics,” field hockey coach Lisa Thompson said.
“He possesses a great knowledge regarding peak performance and sport-specific training. He also has a great way with the athletes.
It’s a great balance of intensity and compassion for each and every student-athlete.”

This past summer Simon would often arrive at Baker before 6 a.m. and not leave until after 7 p.m., lifting
with various athletes at different times of the day, his energy never wavering. Basketball player Matt McKillop ’06 raves that
Coach Simon “knows no boundaries when it comes to helping athletes.”

Have I mentioned that Coach Simon has squatted 600 pounds, bench pressed 440 pounds, and dead lifted 550 pounds? “I’m
proud that all the exercises I prescribe for my athletes I perform in my own training as well,” he said.

Short, big, and muscular, Coach Simon is what you’d expect in an image of a strength coach. Together with the
muscle shirts and extensive lifting knowledge, his favorite movie is “The Rock” and his favorite Sunday pastime is bicep curls.
When asked if he has a soft side at all, he said, “I know I have one, but I’m not
really sure what it is.”

But Simon is not all muscle and grit. He recently became engaged to his girlfriend of more than eight years
(hisfavorite date: a nice dinner, a little dancing, capped off by a 20-minute Bowflex workout) and likes to kick back
to some softer groups like the Dave Matthews Band or the Barenaked Ladies. Ok, so Evan Simon may have somewhat
of a soft side, but if you dare to challenge him, he'll see you in the weight room. He’ll have
the lifting chalk ready.

An impressive night for the outside linebacker as he also recorded seven tackles, one for loss and a sack. The
Wildcat defense "hawked the ball" all night long. Defensive back Jeffrey Scott ’08 and outside linebacker Niel Andrew ’06 also
recorded interceptions for the defense and helped break Davidson’s interception record. “The defense, particularly the ATC, made the most of
our opportunities,” said FitzGerald.

Junior kicker Brad Smith ’07 tacked on a 33-yard field goal with 8:30 left in the fourth quarter and Greensboro
managed to get on the board with a touchdown with only four minutes left in the game. When the final
whistle blew, the ’Cats left the field with a 32-7 victory. The win was a first for Coach Tripp Merritt
at Davidson and broke the four-game losing streak of the ’Cats dating back to last season. The next game will
be this Saturday night at 7:00 p.m. when Lenoir-Rhyne comes to Richardson Stadium for a non-conference clash.

Win $25,000 for grad school!
LAW • BUSINESS • GRADUATE • MEDICAL • DENTAL

FRESH SALADS • OVER 20 VARIATIONS OF BREADSTICKS

You In... And Pays Your Way Sweepstakes! One lucky person will win $25,000 toward the first year of law, business,
graduate, medical, or dental school. To enter, visit kaptest.com/25k by October 31, 2005.

And study abroad means the University Studies Abroad Consortium where you can choose from 25 countries. Come soak up the
vibrant culture and be transformed by the experience. We offer personalized attention from start to finish.

KAPLAN Test Prep and Admissions
• Summer, semester, and yearlong programs
• Wide range of academic courses
• Internships
• Language courses at all levels
• Field trips and tours
• Small classes
• University credit
• Scholarships
• Housing

A USAC representative may be coming to campus. Visit usac.unr.edu for exact dates and locations.
