THE DAVIDSONIAN

Shades of Brown step back into action

By AMOURA CARTER
Staff Writer

The step team, Shades of Brown, is nothing new for some Davidson ears and eyes. It has been around for
a couple of years, but it did not have the type of activity new leader David Dennis ’08 would settle
for.

Vanessa Young ’05 recalled, “There were eight of us in the original group three years ago. The idea for a
step team came out of a desire to bring more diversity and culture to Davidson’s campus. The first year we
successfully had three or four shows. The second year our team grew to 14 members and was a little more
diverse in its makeup.”

While participating in the Dance Ensemble last semester, Dennis found out that Shades of Brown was still an organization on
campus but was mainly inactive because most of the founding members were going abroad. He took this opportunity to develop
and perfect one of his passions, stepping.

Dennis has incorporated many types of stepping for the choreography of Shades of Brown, such as traditional African stepping and
modern collegiate fraternity stepping.

Stepping originated in Africa as a type of communication, entertainment, and rites of passage in some communities.

It has been carried on through the centuries and can now be seen in most modern collegiate fraternity stepping and
other groups such as “Step Afrika!” (a partnership between American dancers and the Soweto Dance Theatre in South Africa), which
performed in the Duke Family Performance Hall last semester.

In recent years, there has been increased interest in the dance, as the step teams across the nation illustrate.

Even though Dennis has a vision of what he wants the group to look like, he stresses the fact that
he wants input from all members. He also wants all types of people from different backgrounds to try out.

Dennis’s ideal person for Shades of Brown would be someone not afraid to try or worry about what other people
think. “You don’t need to be perfect,” said Dennis. “People don’t need to be scared to give it a try
because when I started stepping I had no rhythm ... it took me three hours to learn my first step,
no exaggeration.”

No events are scheduled as of right now, but look out for flyers. The reason for the late start, said
Dennis, is that “right now we are just trying to get the team together and make new steps.”

Tryouts for Shades of Brown are Thursday at 5 p.m. and will be held at the BSC House.

Maybe this is your first time even hearing about stepping, but if you have a drive to learn, take a
chance and try something new. You could possibly find something you might enjoy.

The team, said Young, is “something that was student-driven. I believe the exposure that this campus received from Shades of
Brown has been invaluable and I look forward to seeing the work of the new group.”

Arts & Living strongly encourages students and faculty to submit creative or personal photographs for the ‘Snapshots of Davidson’.

Your Dream: “I want to become a doctor.”

Your Reality: “I don’t have the required courses for medical school.”

The Johns Hopkins Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program prepares college graduates with strong academic records to apply to the best medical schools
by giving them the personal attention, the necessary science and math courses, and one-to-one academic advising.

If you or someone you know wants to pursue a career as a doctor, apply during the application period of
September 1 to March 1.

JOHNS HOPKINS

For more information, visit www.jhu.edu/postbac or call 410-516-7748.

Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program
