4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2005

Knitters win Shackelford Grant

By COLLEEN MCKOWN
Senior Staff Writer

The Davidson College Office Support Staff (OSS) recently awarded the new Jo Anne Shackelford Memorial Grant to Brika Eklund ’06, Lauren Finley ’07, and Kendal Stewart ’06 for their Knit-A-Thon project. No other students submitted grant applications this fall.

“This was the first year this grant was offered, and because of the value of the grant I think students are being extra intentional about the types of projects they propose,” Assistant Dean for Community Service Stacey Riemer said.

Career Services Recruiting Coordinator Brenda Harvey attributed the lack of applicants to students’ over-involvement in activities and the relatively small grant award of $200. “A lot of students that Stacey felt would be good candidates were bombarded with activities and didn’t really have time to apply,” Harvey said. “Also, $200 may not attract students, but Jo Anne was the type of person who could make $200 go a long way.”

“I did not think the knitting project would be applicable ... However, [Jo Anne Shackelford’s] life was about giving back to the community in any way possible, and in that sense, our project was a great fit for the grant.” 
--Brika Eklund ‘06

In the future, the Community Service Office and the OSS hope for increased interest in the Shackelford grant. “I think the range of opportunities at Davidson for service grant funding is inspiring,” Riemer said. “This grant specifically has a special place because it pays tribute to Jo Anne Shackelford. I hope it continues, and that folks can be inspired by the Knit-A-Thon project by seeing what a proposal looks like.”

Eklund, Finley, and Stewart’s Knit-A-Thon project gathers students to knit scarves and hats for the Urban Ministry Center (UMC) in Charlotte, an organization that distributes the warm accessories to Charlotte’s homeless population.

When Riemer informed Eklund of the grant this fall, Eklund did not think the Knit-A-Thon project would fit the Shackelford grant. “At first, I did not think the knitting project would be applicable since it does not relate to children, a primary passion of the late Jo Anne Shackelford,” Eklund said. “However, her life was about giving back to the community in any way possible, and in that sense, our project was a great fit for the grant.”

“The project seemed like something Jo Anne would come up with,” Harvey said. “She liked to have fun in whatever she did.”

Using the funds from the grant, the girls plan to host a Knit-A-Thon in late January. As stated in their grant proposal, the group hopes that the cold winter months will “spark the greater realization of the need for warm clothing for the less fortunate.”

Eklund, Finley, and Stewart came up with the idea for their knitting project last spring while they were discussing their interests in both knitting and community service. With the help of yarn and needle donations from Knit One-Stitch Two at Exit 25, as well as the Needlecraft Store in Davidson, the group combined their two interests into a service project. The Residence Life Office (RLO) also provided snacks for the knitters.

“On a Friday afternoon, we gathered in the Union atrium rocking chairs and knitted for over five hours,” Eklund said. For the next month, the group set up boxes in the Union for students to deposit their completed scarves. Stewart then dropped the scarves off at the UMC.

Stewart regularly volunteers at UMC, so when the scarves were ready, she delivered them directly to people who were waiting to sign up for Room in the Inn, which provides meals and housing to Charlotte’s homeless during the winter months. “They loved the scarves and hats,” Stewart said. “They were so appreciative. Within five minutes, all theKnitted items were gone. I held them up one at a time so that the neighbors could choose colors and styles that they liked. They immediately put them on, happy to be warm and stylish and recognized all at once.

In addition to the knitting project last spring, the group hosted another knitting project in October. The OSS started the grant this fall in honor of Jo Anne Shackelford, a longtime member of the OSS who died of lung cancer last April. Though Shackelford did not smoke, she died just six months after her diagnosis at 54 years old. Eklund did not know Shackelford but was still affected by her death because of a friend’s relationship with her.

“My friend was close to Jo Anne and was deeply affected by her passing,” Eklund said. “I have come to have great respect for this woman through how my friend talks about her and continues to feel about her.”

Shackelford served the community throughout her life in a variety of ways. She worked in the Admissions Office at Davidson, volunteered extensively at Davidson United Methodist Church, and was an elementary school crossing guard. Harvey had high respect for Shackelford and retains many warm memories of her.

“She was so funny and enthusiastic, and involved in so much,” Harvey said. “She did so many little things that really mattered. She never really said no. We should all take a lesson from that and think twice before saying no.”

Brika Eklund ’06, Kendal Stewart ’06, and Lauren Finley ’07 plan the Knit-a-Thon.

Sorority, from page 1

“We do everything that we can to disseminate accurate information about the organization more proactively.” The women held a panel discussion in the 900 Room on October 25 to promote awareness about historically black sororities and the structural differences that separate them from historically white sororities. According to the organizers, historically black sororities differ from traditional sororities because they select members through a competitive national selection process based on qualifications like GPA and community service involvement.

Patterson Court Advisor Joy Hamm emphasized that the proposed sorority will need the support of currently established PCC organizations if it is approved.

“If another group is added to Patterson Court, they will be expected to be a part of PCC—not just in sitting on the Council but in being an active contributor to what Patterson Court’s goals, vision, and mission are,” Hamm said. “It is important that the students who are already a part of Patterson Court want to interact in positive ways with a new group and vice versa.”

Other attempts to bring sororities to Davidson, one more recently in 1998, have failed due to lack of student support. The women promoting the establishment of the sorority on campus worry about the lack of dialogue among the students.

“Sometimes what does get mentioned by students about the sorority is incorrect,” organizer Cherita Jeffreys ’08 said. “We need to increase the communication about this group. We want everyone to feel like this sorority will improve the social interactions at this college. We encourage individuals to shoot us an email and ask us questions.”

The Committee for Campus and Religious Life at Davidson (CCRL) will examine the sorority issue on Tuesday. If the CCRL approves the sorority, President Vagt will make the final decision.

Congratulations Seniors!

The Senior Class has reached 60% paid participation! President and Mrs. Vagt will make a gift of $12,006 to the Annual Fund if the Senior Class reaches 75% PAID participation! Please visit our website at www.davidson.edu/giving to make a gift online. Please contact Liz Kiss at likiss@davidson.edu with questions!