4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Rail, from page 1

“In the future, you can hop on a train in Davidson and get to anywhere in the world,” Krider said.
In addition to creating new opportunities for personal travel, the transit rail may also reduce vehicle use and congestion for
the daily commuter. Some people who work in Charlotte may still choose to drive to work, but the goal is
to limit the fuel usage in each individual home.

One controversial consequence of the development is a proposal to extend Concord Road through historic Main Street in order to
reach the rail station on Jackson Street. Projections for transit use suggest that around 200 people will catch the train
from Davidson each day. Eight to ten thousand people are expected to use the North Corridor line daily. Krider recognizes
that there will be challenges in getting people to take the train but believes that building more businesses around the
station platform will encourage more people to use it.

The transit rail construction project will not end in 2009-2010. According to Krider, the Charlotte Area Transit System’s eventual goal
is to build to Statesville. “When [the station] opens, there won’t be a rush of people to get on it,
because there aren’t a lot of people who live near it,” Krider said. “Around the station, we’re trying to create
the kind of density that the train needs [to succeed as a viable alternative transportation].”

One controversial consequence of the development is a proposal to extend Concord Road through historic Main Street in order to
reach the rail station on Jackson Street.

NEWS

One such measure to promote train usage is encouraging Davidson College to build towards the station and tracks. Although the
college may not have any current plans for expansion, it recognizes the appeal of the transit rail in expanding educational
and extracurricular activities for current students and in attracting prospective students. Chris Gruber, Vice President and Dean of Admission and
Financial Aid, praised the transit rail for its potential to give Davidson students additional opportunities.

“It gives students greater breadth as far as what they’re going to be able to do on our campus,” Gruber
said. “It can increase the quality of students’ lives, both in and outside of academic life.”

Prolonged construction could change the appearance of the town of Davidson and the ability of the college to use the
serene atmosphere to appeal to new students. Gruber, however, did not see any negative consequences arising from the building process.

“Construction by a college campus is a positive thing,” Gruber said. “Construction means growth; it means good things are happening.”
Gruber believes that development in the town will be an additional incentive for prospective students, while Krider emphasized the positive
growth and tax-base aspects.

“Physically what it does to the town is fill in some areas that are under-utilized,” Krider said. “It helps our
economic tax base [to be] not so dependent on property tax to support the town.”

In addition to designing the architecture of the train stations to maximize passenger use, the program is applying to receive
funding from the federal government and getting approval for each rail crossing. The town hopes that the transit rail system
will introduce Davidson students and the community to the wealth of resources nearby.

VOTE for JOHN WOODS
Davidson Town Board
Balanced Development
Economic Health of Davidson
Fiscal Responsibility to the Community
Listening and Responding to the Citizens
Common Sense Decision Making

“John is a Davidson native and understands the challenging issues facing our community. He has 32 years of financial and
managerial experience and is successful at achieving results. John has participated in and understands the important relationship between Davidson College
and the community. Involved in both his community and church, he will work to enhance the quality of life for
all.”

This ad was paid for by John Woods for Davidson Town Board.

Knife, from page 1

people around inside Warner. “These underage gentlemen were not served alcohol by any member of Warner Hall. As far as
I know, while several members of the fights were underclassmen, upperclassmen were involved as well,” Neumann said. “Warner maintains that
all individuals involved in these incidents were heavily intoxicated prior to entering the party.”

Though the events of this weekend have worried many, Walker said there is no cause to be overly concerned. “I
do not foresee any changes to our current patrol methods, this incident is one of few similar events in Davidson
College’s history,” Walker said. Neumann remained grateful forthe safety of her fellow students. “Though it was sad that our party
was shut down, the upside is that at least no one was hurt,” Neumann said. The student involved in the
knife incident will be required to face a board consisting of his peers, faculty, and staff, who will then decide
what action will be taken against him. Because of its remote location, the senior satellite parking lot can be unsafe
at times.

Robbery, from page 1
A license plate number can greatly assist law enforcement investigations. “We did not get a lot of details from the
students, but we got enough to pass the report on to the other police departments in the area,” Walker said.
According to one of the victims, there are steps the campus could take in order to help prevent another mugging
incident. “The exits of the parking lot could have been better lit, and then maybe we could have been able
to read their license plate,” one of the seniors said. Campus and local authorities are currently investigating the mugging incident.
“This type of crime is not the norm for Davidson,” Chief Walker said. “Investigation is underway, and when we find
the perpetrators of this crime, they will be prosecuted to the full extent of the law.”

Religion, from page 3
Department and professor of the Wisdom Literature class, said he has always “willingly and supportively complied” with student requests but
has expected students to contact him. He recognized, however, the problems with placing the burden on students. “In our culture,
religious observance may seem a less obviously viable excuse than illness, for example, and thus, be a matter of discomfort
for the student,” Plank said. “I’d like to think that religious observance would be as easily recognized and accepted, but
it does put the student in a peculiar situation with regard to others who do not share the same religious
conviction.” Vagt said that the Faculty Executive Committee has been “very attentive” to students’ religious issues in their meetings. Plank
believes that the faculty should go further, however, by inviting students at the outset of the semester to approach them
with religious conflicts on the syllabus. He also suggested consulting the religious calendar on the Chaplain’s web page. After last
year’s controversial scheduling of Homecoming on Yom Kippur, the Religious Life Council created a calendar of important religious holidays for
reference.

Beyond issues of class absences and review extensions on religious holidays, Davidson also provides students in religious organizations with the
means to practice their faith on campus. At the request of the three-year-old Muslim Student Association (MSA), the College designated
one of the rooms in the Elm building as a Muslim Prayer Room. The room formerly served displaced professors during
the Chambers renovation. Faris Al-Mazrui ’07, the founder and president of MSA, initiated the request. Nabil Ismail ’08 conducts Friday
prayer services, the most important time of the week for communal prayer. This Sunday, both the Muslim and Hindu students
on campus will hold religious celebrations on campus. The MSA is preparing for its third annual Eid Al-Fitr dinner, the
feast that celebrates the breaking of the fasting during the Muslim month of Ramadan. Everyone in the Davidson community is
invited to the Guest House for dinner and a speaker. Eid Al-Fitr is celebrated in Muslim areas with three days
of food sharing and visiting relatives.

On Sunday afternoon, Davidson students will celebrate the Hindu New Year festival of Diwali for the first time on campus.
Hindus around the world celebrated Diwali yesterday. Since only about four to eight students practice Hindu at Davidson, the student
organizations Interfaith and the Asian Cultural Awareness Association (ACAA) are supporting Diwali as an educational ceremony for the entire campus.
The ceremony will include traditional and colorful dances, the ritual bathing of deities, storytelling, and prayers. It will be held
in Brown Atrium in the Student Union. Representatives from MSA and Hindu students both said they received strong support from
the Chaplain’s office. According to Spach, it is important for Davidson to support such a small number of students of
different religious traditions. “The college’s Presbyterian heritage makes this a place where the life of the spirit is appreciated and
encouraged in a non-sectarian fashion,” Spach said. “So whether we are talking about one student who is the only person
practicing a particular faith at Davidson, or a large number, I want them to know that I and everyone else
in my office respects their faith and that, if they want it, they can receive support for on-campus activities from
my office.”
