THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2005

All the right moves: Men, women combine for 5-0 weeks
Wins against Georgia Southern, App. State show improvement in second half of conference play

Winters ’06 takes a jumper after shaking free from a Chattanooga defender.

Winters storm warning: SoCon player-of-the-week leads Wildcats to three more home victories
By STEPHEN J. HALLIDAY
Staff Writer

Davidson improved to 14-7 and a perfect 10-0 in conference play this week with victories over East Tennessee State, The
Citadel, and Chattanooga.

On Wednesday, the ’Cats faced an ETSU team led by highly-touted point guard Tim Smith, whom coach Bob McKillop said
is “a great player capable of taking over a game and making others around him better.” Davidson struggled early on
against the Bucs’ zone, as the Wildcats fell behind 15-4 after 10 minutes. The ’Cats rallied, however, and a last-second
three from Jason Morton ’06 tied the game 31-31 at the half.

Davidson jumped out to an early lead to start the second half, but the ’Cats again struggled to close out
the game and allowed the Bucs to creep back in by making just six of their last 23 shots from
the floor. ETSU closed to 63-62 with less than two seconds to play, but Davidson was able to escape with
the one-point victory as time expired. Brendan Winters ’06 led the team in scoring with 20, and Logan Kosmalski ’05
added 16 points and 12 rebounds.

On Saturday, Davidson hosted The Citadel, and the Wildcats showed early and often why they are currently the best team
in the Southern Conference. The ’Cats won 81-59 in a game that was never really close. Both teams struggled to
score early, but Davidson used a 7-0 run to establish a 10-point lead midway through the first half. From there,
the ’Cats maintained a double-digit margin for the remainder of the game. Winters again led the team with 24 points,
while Morton and Kosmalski chipped in with 13 and 12, respectively. Kosmalski also added 10 rebounds to register his second
double-double in as many games. Kenny Grant ’06 added seven points and nine assists and, according to McKillop, “led the
team, both offensively and defensively.” The ’Cats finished the home-stand Monday with a game against North Division.

By WILL BRYAN
Staff Writer

Coming off two big wins against the College of Charleston and Western Carolina last week, Davidson welcomed conference foe Georgia
Southern to Belk Arena on Saturday. The Eagles are known for their aggressive rebounding and defense, and the Wildcats were
prepared for a scrappy battle reminiscent of their 70-67 win in Statesboro earlier this season. In the end, however, the
Wildcats handed the Eagles a dominating 65-36 loss and a lesson in fundamental basketball.

“We came in with the eye of the tiger, knowing that we couldn’t give them early looks,” said coach Annette
Watts. The staunch Wildcat defense did just that, holding the Eagles under 10 points until late in the first half.
The 36-point total for the game was the third-lowest in GSU history, and the Wildcats limited the Eagles to just
28 percent shooting. The Wildcatswere able to pull off the win with a season-high 48 rebounds, besting the Eagles by
14 on the boards. Danielle Hemerka ’08 led the way for the 'Cats with 13. “We have really emphasized rebounding,”
said Watts, “and the players have really taken it on themselves to take that as a pride to out-rebound big
teams.”

Davidson defeated the Mocs 67-53, further establishing its place atop the Southern Conference. Davidson now leads by three-and-a-half games over
6-3 Georgia Southern in the South Division. Davidson started the game well, as the 'Cats controlled the tempo and slowed
Chattanooga’s fast-paced transition offense. Early threes from Matt McKillop ’06 and Morton got the 'Cats off to a quick start
and established the Wildcats’ prowess from outside. The first half was defined by scoring runs.

On the offensive end, Katie Hamilton ’07 led all scorers with 13, while Emily Callahan ’05 was right behind her
with 10 points. The 'Cats also welcomed back Brynn Kelly ’07, who was playing in just her second game since
returning from an injury. Kelly, Hemerka, and Jessica Mitchell ’07 all contributed nine points.

On Tuesday night, the Wildcats continued their strong play with a gritty 59-51 victory at Appalachian State. Callahan led the
team with 14 points, which pushed her over the 1,000 mark for her career. The 'Cats converted on just 29
percent of their field goals in the first half but responded with 50 percent shooting in the second frame to
close out their fourth straight win and move to 13-8 and 10-4 in conference play.

Coming off the win streak, the 'Cats hope to continue to improve in their offensive execution, which Watts believes is
the base for success on both ends of the court. “It’s amazing how everything in our game is attached to
whether you are able to score. If you are able to score, your defense is incredible, and your rebounding is
awesome.”

Davidson next hosts ETSU on Feb. 5 and first-place Chattanooga on Feb. 7. The Mocs game will serve as a
good barometer for how far the Wildcats have come since the beginning of conference play when Davidson was outlasted in
Tennessee, 67-57. Katie Delk ’06 came off the bench to provide valuable minutes for the 'Cats.

Player of the Week
Jenny Hoekstra ’05
Swimming
Hometown: Strongville, Ohio
Major: Biology

In her last home meet as a Wildcat, Hoekstra took first in the 50 free against Radford. She also teamed
up with Brigit Barry ’07, Megan Hollar ’06, and Leslie Sherril ’08 to win the 200 medley relay in a
season-best time of 1:51.88.

Play of the Week
Winter’s buzzer-beating three-pointer

Paced by the outside shooting of Jason Morton ’06, the Wildcats held an 11-point lead in the closing seconds of
the first half Monday night against Chattanooga. Brendan Winters ’06 closed out the dominating half of play, however, by nailing
a three-pointer from the baseline as time expired to give Davidson a commanding 40-26 lead. Chattanooga got no closer than
six in the second half of play as the Wildcats moved to 10-0 in the Southern Conference.
