THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Grounds initiative for outdoor seating endorsed

By EMILY KOTA
Staff Writer

The SGA tackled other issues at last Thursday’s meeting apart from the sub-free housing debate. Mac Cowell ’06 introduced a grounds initiative relating to outdoor seating on campus. This initiative requires no SGA funds, but Cowell hoped to receive SGA’s endorsement for his project. His proposal related to the former trial Adirondack chairs on campus. Two years ago, plastic Adirondack chairs were purchased and placed around campus as a trial, perhaps leading to the purchase of more chairs in the future. Unfortunately, many of the chairs were destroyed, ending the possibility of the project's expansion. Cowell’s proposal was to purchase high-quality, long-lasting Adirondack chairs, in contrast to the flimsy chairs in the earlier trial, and place them around campus to encourage students to spend more time outside.

“What makes his initiative different is how he plans to fund the project. The chairs will be paid for through department and student group fundraisers. Once the department or group raises sufficient funds, they will then decorate and sponsor the chair. The chairs will act as “an anchor to the community and increase student art.” A motion to endorse the project was approved by the SGA.

The Activities Tax Council addressed two funding requests. Mujeres de Juarez, a project of two seniors, aims at increasing awareness of social injustice in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico. The proposed project will last three days and consist of educational programs such as a movie, two speakers, and two photo exhibits. The total cost of the program is $4,250, but $3,750 has already been pledged from other offices and student committees on campus. A total of $500 was requested, which was approved by SGA.

CRIP, Campus Revolutionaries Initiating Progress, requested $250 from ATC. The group hopes to become more active on campus, planning to focus on publicity. The group also plans on putting on a theater program to benefit a school for disabled children in Budapest, Hungary. SGA approved the allocation of $250.

Update

Early spring break leaves students disappointed again

By ZACH KAZIOR
Senior Staff Writer

This year’s early spring break has students wondering once again why it is not scheduled with the vacations of other schools. The administration’s reasoning in scheduling spring break in February is its desire to place the break midway between the beginning of the semester and Easter.

“By long practice, though not regulation or mandate, a semester break comes after seven weeks of classes. Because in both fall and spring, official breaks (Thanksgiving and Easter) come in the second half of the semester, the break at the actual midpoint seems most logical and most desirable,” said Registrar Hansford Epes.

The Faculty Executive Committee, chaired by President Vagt, sets the calendar four years in advance and has the final word. It canvases the faculty and the SGA, but neither of these bodies has the authority to override the committee. To have it logistically pushed back, the SGA would have to convince the administration that the majority of the student body wants a later spring break.

“We would need to evaluate the reasons that the administration prefers the spring break where it is now, so we could come up with legitimate rebuttals to change their minds,” said SGA President-elect Ryan Arnold ’06. “We represent the concerns of the student body, and as the early spring break seems to be a problem, we will lobby the administration to get it pushed back. To do this, we will get the support of as many organizations and students as possible to show the administration that the students are serious about change.”

But although students have voiced their concerns, SGA has not stood up to the administration’s proposals. This term’s break was approved without being pushed back two weeks. SGA failed to muster opposition against the proposal.

“I was disappointed in SGA for not voting against the calendar and representing the student body in a clear and decisive manner,” said SGA representative Jack Hubbard ’06.

Spring break will shift in the 2006-2007 school year to the week of March 5 due to an early Martin Luther King Day; spring break will start on March 3 in the 2007-08 year.

“If you pin down when the second semester starts, you have automatically determined the date of semester break,” said Epes.

While the early date concerns many students, athletic teams such as wrestling and swimming compete during the break.

“We’ve always had to stay here during spring break, as our conference tournament falls the Saturday before everyone returns to school,” said wrestler Joe Scognamiglio ’07. “Being in Davidson during this break can get depressing, as the campus is desolate and nothing is going on. If spring break were to be pushed back, we would be able to have a spring break that would enable us to travel. With only an eight-day semester break, it would be nice to get some time off in the spring to relax and recover from the season.”

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2005

Motor Pool considers options

Expense, safety among committee’s concerns

By KATE GILLESPIE
Senior Staff Writer

Davidson’s Motor Pool, which handles the maintenance and dispatch of college-owned vehicles, is concerned about the expense of maintaining the Vamanos van for the sole purpose ofTransporting students on the weekends and would like to eventually replace it with one of the college’s seven Ford Excursions. The Rides Committee of SGA plans to begin tallying the number of students who ride the van each weekend in an effort to assess whether students actually depend on the van for transportation. “If the purpose of the SGA Rides program is to provide an economic means for students, and ridership is not that high, I can’t see why it wouldn’t work to use an Excursion,” said Associate Director of Bus and Property Management Irvin Brawley, who heads the Motor Pool. SGA, however, believes that the Vamanos Van is a popular service and hopes to prove this by asking individual drivers to keep track of how many students ride the van each night.

“From all of our experiences, we assume that people are trying to use it [the Vamanos Van], but we don’t have any concrete data to back that up,” said Evan Kreutzer ’08, the head of the Rides Committee. The van operates from 8:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m. on Thursdays, Fridays, and Saturdays and transports students to exits 25, 28, and 36. Although the Alumni Relations and Admissions offices occasionally use the van as a shuttle from the Baker parking lot to events on campus, the vehicle is rarely used outside of its Vamanos Van context. Brawley does not want the student body to see Motor Pool as the “bad guy” but maintains that it would be much more economical for the SGA to use an Excursion rather than require a specialized vehicle for the operation of the Vamanos Van. Although SGA rents the van at a rate of $35 per day, the revenue taken in from the van is low enough that Motor Pool loses money in its operation.

“People think that we need to have one specialized vehicle just for the students, but economically it doesn’t make sense because it limits the use of the vehicle for something else, and these vehicles are expensive,” Brawley said. “Economically, we want to try to keep the Vamanos Van running as long as we can, but it is a vehicle that, if it is reserved for SGA for Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, we can’t use for anything else. It ties up that vehicle for those three days.”

Another concern arises from the fact that the Vamanos Van cannot run when there are not enough certified drivers on any given night to operate it. The Rides Committee coordinates drivers from Patterson Court fraternities and eating houses and sometimes hires drivers for special events, such as Spring Frolics. According to Brawley, Motor Pool is required to review every potential driver’s driving records and sometimes has to deny certification on the basis of these records. “The challenge is getting a coordinator from SGA to have enough certified drivers,” Brawley said. The certification process for Vamanos Van drivers is handled by the Public Safety Office and is separate from that for drivers of other Motor Pool vehicles because the van is so much larger and more difficult to maneuver.

“It’s kind of like a Driver’s Ed class,” said Jimmy Newlin ’05, who teaches the certification class. “You watch a 15-minute video and take a test. I just take them out on the road and make sure they can go on 77 and drive on the back roads. They also back the van up a little bit.” Walker Saik ’06, who served as the head of the Rides Committee from 2003 to 2004, believes that replacing the Vamanos Van with an Excursion would remove a significant part of the college community. “The Physical Plant does not understand that the Vamanos Van service is as much a social interaction as it is a transportation service,” Saik said. “If they moved it to an Excursion, it would destroy most of that purpose. It will be more cramped and not as friendly of an environment. It won’t be as much of a recognizable symbol of the school.” Saik also cites the smaller size of the Excursion as a disadvantage of getting rid of the Vamanos Van. While the van can hold fourteen passengers and a driver, the Excursion can only transport nine people.

“If fewer people use the Excursion because it wasn’t big enough or it was less fun, either they’re going to walk or they’re going to drive,” Saik said. “Drunk driving could increase, but that’s all hypothetical.” Newlin agrees that the van serves an important purpose for students who are too inebriated to drive. “The Vamanos Van holds fourteen, and that’s just fourteen seats,” Newlin said. “We usually try to squeeze people in standing, too. I try not to make this a policy, but I would rather see people break the rule of occupancy on the van than drive drunk.” As the Vamanos Van gets older, it is

See Van, page 5

VEGGIE MELT | VEGGIE BURGER — VEGGIE HOAGIE VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP. VEGGIE RANCH WRAP SWEET POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD GRILLED CHEESE - VEGETABLE SOUP Plus: FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE ORANGEADE, LEMONADE AND LIMEADE

If you didn't think of us for vegetarian fare! Eat-in Take-out, Pedestrian 566-7749