2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Alternative gifts encourage non-commercial holiday

By COLLEEN McKown
Senior Staff Writer

The Chaplain’s Office and the Christian social justice group Sanctuary co-sponsored the 13th annual Alternative Gift Market (AGM) Sunday. Instead of buying presents for friends and family, students and faculty members donated to charity.

“I think the alternative gifts are one way to celebrate solidarity and respond to people suffering in distant and often incomprehensible situations,” co-leader of Sanctuary Laura Boston ’06 said. “It is an easily accessible and practical way to avoid buying another tie for your uncle George and give direct resources where they’re truly needed.”

“Alternative gifts are not just a charitable hand-out, but a resource for a family or village like livestock or a well, that significantly improves their quality of life.” --Rob Spach, College Chaplain

The alternative gifts are self-development goods or animals for people living in poverty, especially in third-world countries. Through Alternative Gifts International, one can donate as much as $2,500 for a new home for a family in Haiti or as little as $30 for two sacks of groceries for a hungry American family. Other gifts include scholarships for children in Nepal and oxen to assist in planting and harvesting in Bolivia.

This year, the AGM focused on environmental justice, as well as the empowerment of those living in poverty. According to College Chaplain the Rev. Rob Spach, the gifts are designed to make a long-term impact on people’s lives. “Alternative gifts are not just a charitable hand-out, but a resource for a family or village like livestock or a well, that significantly improves their quality of life,” Spach said.

About 15 student groups participated in the AGM, including Patterson Court houses and religious organizations. The groups sponsored tables and gave students the information about each of the gifts on the shopping lists. Most years, about 120 students, faculty, and staff make donations for alternative gifts.

According to Boston, students are concerned about and aware of the problem of poverty in the world today. “Davidson students are conscious of their privilege and glad to have the opportunity to give a gift that offers hope to global citizens. Others are relieved by an alternative to the hyper-consumerism during December, when every marketable item morphs into the shape of a snowman or Santa Claus,” Boston said.

Harriet Prichard started the AGM in California in 1980. Prichard, who was then the director of children’s ministries at her church, wanted to provide the children with a model for non-commercial gifts. Since then, the program has spread to 324 markets in 43 states, and $17 million has been raised.

Davidson began participating in the AGM in 1993, when a Davidson student, Letitia Campbell, read about the program and became interested in bringing the AGM to Davidson. With the help of Spach, Campbell got the program underway at Davidson.

Boston and Spach both cite the AGM as a way to unite people across the globe by offering help and service, thereby keeping a spirit of giving and loving alive during the Christmas season. “I think the holiday season, no matter what you are or are not celebrating, somehow reminds us of the connections between people on our dear spinning earth, a connectedness which is becoming increasingly observable,” said Boston.

Spach added, “The Alternative Gift Market is important because it reminds us that what matters most is honoring the dignity of every human being by helping to improve the lives of impoverished people ... for Christians and people of many other religious traditions, it is an opportunity to honor God by remembering that God’s concern in scripture and tradition is often for the poor and marginalized.”

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

10/5 Concord Road Vehicle Damage
An RLO staff member’s car was egged sometime after 11 p.m. Sunday night. The car was parked on the south side of Concord Road. No suspects have been identified thus far. Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety

Cassandra Dozet ’08, Katharine Phlegar ’08, and Sophia Meyers ‘08 decorate ornaments at the last Friday Afternoon Club.

SGA seeks to improve student-faculty relations

By SARAH BALEY
Staff Writer

When SGA senator Darryl Ratcliff ’08 noticed that student-faculty relations at Davidson College were not as strong as they could be, he immediately took action. Working through the channels of the Student Government Association (SGA), Ratcliff has improved the Student-Faculty Relations Committee.This semester, "IT revamped and revived the committee and renamed it," Ratcliff said. "It used to be the Roundtable, but it had been inactive for about three or four years." So far this year, the committee has sponsored two student-faculty dinners as well as weekly Friday Afternoon Club gatherings. While most of the Friday Afternoon Clubs revolve around an open bar and informal conversations between students and faculty, one gathering per month also includes an activity to draw a larger crowd. This semester’s monthly events have included pumpkin carving and ornament and cookie decorating. According to Ratcliff, last Friday’s ornament and cookie decorating event was the most successful Friday Afternoon Club and showed the campus’s reception to student-faculty interaction. "There were people there before the event started 'til after the event ended," Ratcliff said. "We went through 200 cookies in the first hour. We used all of the ornaments. It’s hard to say with the ebb and flow of people over three hours, but I wouldn’t be surprised if we had well over 100 people come to the event and at least 20 faculty or staff members." 

President Vagt, who co-sponsored the event, attributed the success to the personal invitations SGA has extended to faculty members. "Our faculty are eminently engagable when you approach them," Vagt said. "I surely hope that this is something that doesn’t die down when the committeeship changes." Ratcliff first became concerned with student-faculty relations while studying art over the summer. "I had a grant from Dean Rusk that enabled me to interact with other faculty from other schools," Ratcliff said. "And I got to realize how cool they are. They’re fun to hang out with. I thought Davidson could use that kind of nonacademic interaction with faculty and staff members."

From the start, Ratcliff has seen tremendous support from the Davidson community at large and from SGA in particular. "I talked to [SGA President] Ryan Arnold and he gave me permission to be chair of the Committee," Ratcliff said. "Then, we had our Student Government Association retreat and the SGA voted that student-faculty relations should be one of our main goals to help improve." Although Ratcliff had plenty of ideas, he struggled to find the funds to carry out his goals. "I went around rounding up cash," Ratcliff said. "I scrapped up enough money for the two dinners. SGA contributed and the Dean of Students Offices... Then, [Director of the College Union William Brown] thought it was a great idea and [offered support]." The Union co-sponsored the pumpkin carving event along with the Residence Life Office and SGA, and President Vagt co-sponsored the ornament decorating event with SGA.

Ratcliff has since been able to generate a larger budget for the Student-Faculty Relations Committee. The budget is currently almost equal to that of SGA as a whole. "Clearly, though it is worth the costs, not just because of the amazing success of all our programs this year, but because the student-faculty relationship at Davidson College is what makes this school what it is, and anything that significantly bolsters that relationship is very important," Ratcliff said.

Students and faculty alike are full of praise for the committee and especially for the Friday Afternoon Club events. Lauren Cunningham ’09, who attended the ornament and cookie decorating event, said, "The event had a great turnout — lots of students as well as some faculty members and their children. Although the paint tubes were in short supply, everyone was in the holiday spirit and thus really willing to share. I loved the hot apple cider. I didn’t decorate a cookie, but I did snack on the Red Hots that were provided. The Christmas music that was playing in the background really set the seasonal mood. I would definitely attend another Friday Afternoon Club event and recommend it to others."

Ideas for next semester include a doubles tennis tournament, potluck snacks, and a scavenger hunt. SGA will also host an SGA-Faculty Banquet next semester, where students and faculty will discuss a certain issue in small groups. Ratcliff believes that the committee has already been successful this semester. "I think it is safe to say that we have been very successful in these programs and that they are enriching student life in a real way, and the longer they are around and the more established they become, these events will become very anticipated and powerful things at Davidson College," Ratcliff said.