12 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2005

WEEK IN REVIEW

sports fans...

WILSON’S PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat Game of the Week
Men’s Tennis vs. Boston College
Friday, April 8 at 2:00 p.m.

While Women’s Tennis has been getting all the attention this spring with a 12-match winning streak and a national ranking,
the men have been quietly building a solid season on the base of strong doubles play. Their last home match
against BC should provide an honest barometer for the 'Cats to measure up before they wrap up the SoCon season.

Outside the Den
Los Angeles Dodgers at San Francisco Giants
Thursday, April 7 at 10:15 p.m.

Two things signify the coming of Spring for me: Daylight savings time and Major League Baseball. Celebrate new seasons by
watching a game (any game!) during Opening Week. This one might be particularly good; don’t forget that the Left Coast
rivalry rivals Red Sox and Yankees.

After Sean May tipped the ball to Raymond Felton with 10 seconds to play and North Carolina up three points,
I knew I should have felt jubilant. Carolina was going to win the National Championship, its first since 1993, and
I was there in Chapel Hill to experience it. I was raised to bleed baby blue, as both my parents
went to Carolina for undergrad and grad school before teaching me that college sports started and stopped with UNC. I
celebrated the 1993 championship when I was nine, cried after a more talented bunch lost to Boston College in the
second round in 1994, and continued to watch as UNC fell to a shell of itself under Bill Guthridge and
Matt Doherty. I traveled up to Chapel Hill on Monday night seeking my redemption from the Dark Ages of UNC
basketball, and it was upon me in the waning seconds of the title game against Illinois.

Around me, Chapel Hill rejoiced. Thousands raced out onto Franklin Street, ready to mob deep into the night (though the
many police had other thoughts, and for the most part had their way). Me? I sat by the TV, waiting
for that feeling of joy that never came. I chalked it up to shock; the championship just hadn’t sunk in
yet, and I would be ready to celebrate the Heels’ return to national prominence with many others shortly. Eventually, I
went out to Franklin Street, clad in my No. 2 Raymond Felton jersey, and pretended to whoop it up with
the masses. I chanted, jumped, hugged, ran, skipped, and hollered. But nothing I could do could put a genuine smile
on my face. Sure, I was happy, but this wasn’t the great euphoria that I had thought the Tar Heels’
National Championship would bring. Instead, I felt like an impostor. For most of the kids out there on Franklin Street,
this was their town, their team, their players. I was just a Davidson transplant, on the other hand, pretending to
be one of the 15,000 undergrads that actually goes to Chapel Hill.

When Carolina came to the Charlotte Coliseum last year to play the Wildcats, I refused to sit in the student
section because I didn’t really want to cheer for Davidson. To make amends, I said that I wanted to see
a close, well-played game that Carolina eventually won, but that wasn’t even true. When Davidson brought it back to a
13-point game in the second half, I wasn’t rooting for the Wildcats at all. Since that date in November 2004,
though, I have become ingrained in this community, and I have had the chance to watch Brendan, Logan, Ian, and
Matt, among others, play.

see McCrory, page 13

Recover from weekend with Masters fun
By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Columnist

When discussing breaking out of a hitting slump, Reggie Jackson once said, “So many ideas come to you and you
want to try them all, but you can’t. You’re like a mosquito in a nudist colony; you don’t know where
to start.” And while it pains me to credit any Yankee past or present with even a modicum of intelligence,
Mr. October sums up my recent predicament rather nicely.

For the past several days the American sports landscape has been more crowded and overwhelming than the infield at Saturday’s
Carolina Cup, where Lily Pulitzer met Ralph Lauren and decided to invite 30,000 or so of their closest friends. What
they forgot to tell us, however, was that there would be seven horse races. During the six hours I spent
cavorting among frat gods and goddesses, the closest thing I saw to a race involved one screaming individual wearing nothing
at all, being chased by another individual wearing a South Carolina State Trooper uniform. And the closest thing resembling a
horse ... well, I’m not that mean.

Also on Saturday, the Final Four men’s hoops teams collided in St. Louis for an evening double-header, the results of
which were more predictable than an episode of Gilligan’s Island. (No way! They’re still stranded!) Speaking of a fat guy
failing to find...success, David “I once threw a no-hitter hungover” Wells began his Red Sox career by surrendering four runs
off 10 hits in four and a third innings of work, as the Yankees cruised to a 9-2 victory on
Sunday night. For future reference, David, the bar’s that way.

Monday, of course, pitted North Carolina against Illinois in the National Championship. Rooting against Roy Williams probably qualifies as some
sort of sin, but I’m headed to hell in a handbasket anyways, so I was pulling for Illinois. And while
this was the first time since 1975 that the two top-ranked teams in the country met in the final, there
was absolutely no reason for Illinois coach Bruce Weber to dress like it was 1975; the man looked like an
elementary school crossing guard in his fluorescent orange jacket. Unfortunately, neither Weber nor his team could stop Sean May, who
bullied around the Illini, dropping 26 points and grabbing 10 rebounds en route to earning Most Outstanding Player honors. Most
Obnoxious Player goes to Rashad McCants, who ripped off his shirt and paraded around solo as his teammates celebrated together
at the opposite end of the court. Come on, Rashad, you’re not even that jacked.

On Tuesday it was the women’s turn as Michigan State battled Baylor in the first title game in three years
not featuring UConn. I watched American Idol and ate bon-bons, sulking over Derek Jeter’s game-winning jack off Keith Foulke in
the bottom of the ninth earlier that afternoon. The Yankees suck.

Today’s empty schedule gave us all time to catch a breather, or, more accurately, time to stock the fridge for
tomorrow’s festivities. Indeed, for me April 7, 2005, has been more anticipated than June 13, 2004, when the Olsen Twins
finally became legal. Tomorrow hockey makes its triumphant see Connolly, page 14

Another field of 64, with ping-pong balls.
By JEFF HAMILTON
Guest Columnist

While most of you thought your school, Davidson, had bowed out of all tournaments that constitute “March Madness,” I am
here to impress upon you that you, in fact, have been lied to. Outside the realm of Chambers and E.H.
Little, and beneath the fibers of basically all academic enterprise at your institution of higher learning there exists a tournament,
one that has involved 128 of your nearest and dearest of peers. You believed that the ’Cats lost out in
Chattanooga a few weeks back, but I’m here to tell you that they are still alive and sipping (I mean
kicking) it in spots that I won’t soon mention in this article.

Sixty-four two-man teams formed the second annual “March Madness Beirut Tournament” at Davidson this year. Treading, as I am, in
shallow waters (not with graduation, Mom, just “street cred”), name dropping in this article must be kept to a minimum.
Understand that this bracket is completely legit, and that only the moralistic Charles Hauser has rubbed off on me in
my Journalism Ethics class this semester, not the stories of Jayson Blair, Stephen Glass and other, how-shall-we-say-it-nicely, fraudulent journalists in
our society. In other words, there were four regions (Cannon, Sentelle, Belk, Tomlinson), complete seedings (1-16 every region), the play-in
game, and your favorite, “Beast.” So, if you are a bit bummed that your NCAA bracket turned out about like
Mark McGwire’s congressional testimony (it was bad), feel revitalized to know that there is still a bracket and a tournament
that you can watch. And the best part is, it’s live and based completely on reality (hey, what’s not these
days).

In this year’s tournament we’ve seen all sorts of things, from the bizarre and emotional to delay tactics that only
the NHL players and owners could imagine. The tourney is currently in a bit of a holding pattern, essentially the
middle of the first and second rounds, as people have managed excuses varying from school work and varsity sports to
the always debatable, and not always functional, “I don’t feel like drinking tonight.” In what was a bit of a
surprise, three of the number two seeds got bounced by the 15 seeds they were matched up with in the
first round. But, whereas judging Beirut talent is not always the equivalent to judging basketball talent, or any talent that
is actually a talent, it’s really not that shocking. So don’t count on the dream match-up of UNC-Illinois in this
tournament’s finals. You’re looking more along the lines of a Montana-Oakland final. But at this point, there’s really no telling
what might happen.

I imagine, eventually, the Beirut tournament will wrap up, declaring an all-powerful champion and extinguishing the hopes of the 126
other participants, as well as hundreds of other fans and critics alike. But until then, get out, watch some Beirut,
enjoy these beautiful spring days and any other jolly aphorisms I might drop to fill up my word count in
this article. But when you ask me where to go to find these tournament games, I’ll plead the Fifth, McGwire
style, and go about my merry way.
