8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2005

‘House of Yes’ leaves audiences enthralled

By DAVID KERNS

Staff Writer

Painstakingly hilarious awkwardness is what best characterizes the humor of the dark comedy, The House of Yes, written by Wendy MacLeod and directed by theatre major Ryan Hastings ’05. The dry wit, awkward interactions, and bizarre relationships of the five characters left the audience writhing with laughter.

At the same time, the play offered a poignant satirical critique of aristocratic suburban life. From start to finish, there was never a dull moment: the audience went through continuous cycles of explosions of laughter, uneasy knee clenches, and moments of stark silent attention.

One minute you could not hear the next actor’s line overtop the barrage of billowing buffoonery and the next you could distinguish the soft displacement of chess pieces onstage.

I was surprised to see that by the end of the play, I had inadvertently torn my playbill in half due to the buildup of tension.

The conflict of the story begins when a wealthy suburbanite Marty (Billy Ferguson ’05) brings his fiancé, Lesly (Clarissa Carr ’05), home for Thanksgiving to meet his family.

This would all be fine and good, if Marty’s family wasn’t made up of a bunch of raving lunatics driven mad by their own isolation and social confusion.

Marty’s clinically insane twin sister, and incestuous lover, Jackie-O (Lisa Burr ’05), is hysterically jealous of Lesly and seeks to cause her undoing.

Anthony, Marty’s little brother (Chris Catanese ’08)...well, I don’t know what Anthony’s deal was. Anthony keeps the audience always on the verge of hysteria with his well-timed, well-delivered one-liners. Feeling, perhaps, a bit left out of his siblings’ fun, he declares to Lesly that he is afraid that he will die of a brain tumor before ever having “you know,” trying to seduce her while his mother watches on.

His mother, Mrs. Pascal (Rachel Purcell ’08), is the stereotypical over-the-top aristocratic housewife, who does not have enough to do and has too much free access to alcohol. Martini glass in hand, she nonchalantly admits to Lesly that she isn’t precisely sure who the fathers of all of her children are. Her husband, whose absence is felt as a strong presence, left her the day of Kennedy’s assassination.

The family, next-door-neighbors of the Kennedys, does indeed have a bizarre fixation with Jackie and John, which mounts as the audience learns that the way that Marty and his sister began their incestuous encounters is that they act out JFK’s assassination before falling into a wild state of sexual passion.

Heightening the resonance of the play is the unique way the staging space is utilized. In the cozy Black Box space, lines between actors and audience-members are often blurred as the cast comes close.

All in all, it was a well-acted, well-directed offset comedy, and a perfect alternative to a normal Davidson evening.

ANNOUNCING MEAL PLAN SIGN-UPS FOR FALL 2005!

Choose from six different plans, including the new “Just 5” Plan. Be a part of the New Vail Experience as the newly renovated Commons is opened this fall! Visit Vail Commons to see artist renderings, plans, and finishes for this terrific new space! Respond by April 29, 2005 to be entered in the drawing for $50 gift.

Photo courtesy of College Comm

Chris Catanese ’08, Lisa Burr ’05, and Billy Ferguson ’05 (l-r) play the crazy Pascal siblings in “The House of Yes.”

STSTRAVEL.COM

Bonsai Grill

Not just great Sushi, but Chinese and Thai Dishes too!

101 Depot Street Davidson, NC 28036 Tel.: 704-892-2641 Fax: 704-895-8376 (Please call to confirm all faxed orders)

OPEN 6 DAYS A WEEK LUNCH: (Mon.-Fri.) 11:00 am-2:30 pm (Sat.) 11:30 am-2:30 pm DINNER: (Mon.-Thurs.) 5:00 pm-9:30 pm (Fri.-Sat.) 5:00 pm-10:00 pm

I wanted to thank you for your support during our first month of opening. It was a great success because of you. And I also wanted to tell you how happy we are to be a part of this great community. I came from a small town and as any other small town, you do not have much choice when it comes to dining. Here, we are glad that we can give you the best of the Orient...Thai, Chinese and Japanese.

If you have not been to our place, come! We have nightly specials that are not in the menu and I want you to try our Pad Thai. It is a world famous Thai style stir-fry noodle with chicken, shrimp, egg, bean sprout and topped with ground peanut. It is truly of the Orient. And during the months of March and April, FREE soft drinks for just trying our Pad Thai.

We hope to see you soon!

Charlie H. Lim

Starting March 27th, we will be closed on Sundays.

Sushi Bar