16 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2005

Men’s basketball a perfect 5-0 to begin conference play

By STEPHEN J. HALLIDAY
Senior Staff Writer

Men’s basketball improved to 9-7 overall and 5-0 in the Southern Conference this season after close home wins against Appalachian State and College of Charleston last week.

Against App. State on Tuesday, Davidson led for most of the game and held a 12-point lead with less than seven minutes to play, but the Mountaineers used a quick 10-0 run over the next two minutes to make it a close game late. App. State connected on four straight free throws to take a 61-59 lead with only 1:10 to play, but a Matt McKillop ’06 three-pointer gave the Wildcats a 62-61 lead they would not relinquish in the 67-62 win. Brendan Winters ’06 led the team with 17 points and 12 rebounds, and McKillop added 14 points. Another highlight in the win was the play of freshman Boris Meno ’08, who received significant playing time with Logan Kosmalski ’05 in early foul trouble. Meno played 15 minutes, scoring five points, collecting seven rebounds, and posting a Davidson season-high three blocked shots.

Against College of Charleston on Saturday, Davidson built a 13-point lead eight minutes into the first half, but the Cougars cut into that advantage with an 11-0 run over the next five minutes. Davidson was finally able to end the offensive drought, however, and the Wildcats held on for a 32-28 lead at intermission.

The second half was marked by runs and lead changes by both teams, but Davidson proved too much for the Cougars down the stretch. Charleston led 62-60 with 1:03 remaining in the game, but with 36 seconds to play, McKillop again hit a crucial three-pointer from the left wing to give Davidson the lead, 63-62. On the next possession, Charleston missed a wide open layup with only 16 seconds left, and Kosmalski grabbed the rebound for the Wildcats. The Cougars sent McKillop to the line, where he made both ends of the one-and-one to extend the lead to three. Charleston missed a desperation three-pointer and McKillop added two more free throws in the closing seconds to give Davidson the 67-62 win. Winters netted 17 points in the contest, once again leading the team in scoring. McKillop had 16 points on 4-6 shooting, including the final seven points of the game. Kosmalski had 13 points and 11 rebounds, his third double-double of the year, and Ian Johnson ’06 added 10 points.

Jason Morton ’06 defends Appalachian State’s Chris McFarland. The Wildcats needed several defensive stops down the stretch to thwart a late-game surge by the Mountaineers. Coach Bob McKillop said the team’s execution in the closing minutes of the past two games “demonstrates tremendous poise under pressure in late game situations, and says much of the experience of the team.”

The team has a two-game conference road trip this week, playing at Western Carolina on Wednesday and at Furman on Saturday, and McKillop warns that the parity of the Southern Conference makes every game a tough one. Still, Davidson’s 5-0 start in conference play is much more encouraging, and leaves more room for error, than the 2-4 start of a year ago.

Women’s basketball beats Furman on road, loses at home

The Wildcats did notScore a field goal for over 10 minutes against Greensboro.

Wrestling
Hometown: Annapolis, Maryland
Benjamin Graham '08
Major: Undeclared

Earlier this month, the 149-pounder earned SoCon Wrestler of the Week for his performance in helping the 'Cats to their best start in 38 years. He was one of the only grapplers to win matches at last week's Virginia Duals, and his current overall record is 21-7 (8-0 in duals).

By Monica Jamouneau
Staff Writer

After a tough road trip to Tennessee against conference front-runners ETSU and UT-Chattanooga to open the new year, Davidson went to Furman and defeated a sound Paladin team before coming home for contests against Elon and UNC-Greensboro. Against Furman, the Wildcats handed the No. 2 Paladins their first home loss of the year by connecting on a season-high 11 three-pointers.

"[Against Furman] we were getting into the gaps and making that extra pass," noted Jessica Mitchell '07. "I was shooting wide-open threes." Coach Annette Watts was extremely pleased with the effort against Furman, saying, "Our team, which has been playing with only eight players since Jan. 4, dug in and defeated a very solid Furman team."

Katie Hamilton '07 once again topped the 20-point mark during Saturday’s home game against Elon, leading her team to an easy 67-44 victory. The 'Cats came away from halftime with a 29-18 lead, and the women tallied a 48.5 percent field goal average in the second half to cruise home with the victory. In addition to Hamilton’s 20 points, Callahan had 12 points and seven rebounds, Washington added eight points and six assists, and Hemerka led the team in rebounds with 12.

Davidson continued the strong play at home against UNC-Greensboro last night, taking a 37-34 lead into halftime and extending it to as much as 46-36 early in the second frame. Unfortunately, the Wildcat offense went cold from that point, as they went over 10 minutes without a single field goal and allowed the Spartans to go on a 20-1 run. UNC-G held on from there, posting a field goal percentage of nearly 60 percent in the half to hold on for their fifth straight victory.

Despite the tough loss, Annette Watts is pleased with the effort of late from the Wildcats, who have continued to fight undermanned during a torrid stretch of five games in 11 days. "This team has something very special about it. They believe in themselves and play as hard as any team I have ever coached. They work as a unit, and they do not care who gets the credit."

PLAY OF THE WEEK
McKillop strikes in game's final minute

Charleston took a 62-60 lead with 1:03 to play. On the ensuing possession with the shot clock winding down, Matt McKillop '06 dribbled around a screen and shot an off-balance three-pointer over two defenders who scrambled to get a hand in his face. McKillop drained the shot (which was eerily reminiscent of his late game trey against App. State) to put Davidson up by one with 36 seconds left in the contest. After Charleston missed a lay-up that would have put the Cougars ahead, McKillop nailed four foul shots to put the game out of reach for the SoCon foes and keep the 'Cats undefeated in conference play.