12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

For you sports fans...

WILSON'S PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat Game of the Week
Men’s Basketball
Davidson vs. Georgia Southern
Saturday, Feb. 12 at 7:00

It might be too early to get excited, but I’m already thinking March. Before these guys start thinking about getting
jiggy in the tournament, they need to get invited to The Dance, which means continued...

SPORTS

For the first time all season, I could see the Wildcats as champions on Saturday night. Despite a 9-0 start
in Southern Conference play heading into the weekend showdown with North division co-leader UNC-Greensboro, an 18-game regular season SoCon winning
streak dating back to last year, and a three-game lead in the South over College of Charleston and Georgia Southern,
I was convinced that the Wildcats just weren't good enough to win against any team in the league. I even
managed to rationalize big wins over Chattanooga and College of Charleston. We didn’t win by enough. They didn’t play well.
We just got hot at the right time. ESPN should have put me on College GameNight alongside Chris Fowler, Andy
Katz, and Mike Jarvis and picked my brain for basketball knowledge. I believed that, in the end, our offense was
too dependent on the outside shot and a few spurts every game to win, and that we didn’t have the
athleticism to play with teams that could run and jump better than us. I thought we were just a fundamentally
sound, well-coached team. Sure, I wanted to think that we were the best team in our conference, but I couldn’t
come to terms with the thought. Surely, there was some team out there that was just better.

But Davidson made Chattanooga, the supposed beast of the North, look more like Brandeis than anything else on Monday, leaving
UNC-G as the only great unknown heading into Saturday night. A few of my friends and I decided to make
the hour-and-a-half drive up I-85 to Greensboro Saturday to see for ourselves if the 9-0 ’Cats were just a product
of good fortune and decent play, or if they really were that good. In the first half, Davidson looked like
the same solid team it has been all year, jumping out to an 8-0 lead in the opening minutes but
allowing UNC-G to put together a 17-4 run of its own to take a 17-12 lead midway through the first
half.

Elon surprises Jake: Con Source

Thursday, February 10
Charleston over THE CITADEL
Low Country bragging rights are on the line when The Citadel hosts The College of Charleston Thursday night at McAlister
Field House. Charleston is looking to bounce back after its embarrassing defeat at Chattanooga and post its first road conference
win of the New Year.
Drew: Charleston; Wilson: Charleston

Saturday, February 12
Chattanooga over ASU
App. State hasn’t played an elite SoCon team since its last loss to Chattanooga back in late January. UTC will
try to distance itself from UNC-G in the North Division with a win in Boone in hopes of earning the
coveted No. 1 seed in the North division.
Drew: ASU; Wilson: UTC

DAVIDSON over GSU
Georgia Southern visits Belk Arena on Saturday with the goal of breaking Davidson’s 20-game regular season win streak. But when
the Eagles players are on the bus for the ride home, they’ll most surely be singing about those Statesboro blues.
Drew: Davidson; Wilson: Davidson

FURMAN over Wofford
I really want...

The game continued in up-and-down style, as the ’Cats forced a staggering 17 turnovers in the first 20 minutes but
connected on just 38 percent of their shots in the opening frame to take a three-point lead into intermission. It
was the second half, though, that finally made me a believer in how good this Wildcats team really is.

From the Sideline

“The ’Cats were better in almost every facet than the team that was tabbed among the SoCon elite.”

Davidson jumped out to another early lead in the second frame, using a 12-6 run to take a comfortable 43-34
lead. Ho-hum. UNC-G did not go away, as the Spartans pulled back to within five at 48-43, and the team
and crowd began to believe in a 12th-straight win at home. That hope did not last for long, as Davidson
did not let UNC-G and its support stay in the game down the stretch. The defense clamped down, and the
’Cats did not...to pick Wofford for this game, but I just can’t. Wofford played Davidson extremely close Monday, but I
just don’t see them winning a tough Southern Conference game on the road. Drew: Wofford; Wilson: Furman

UNC-G over ETSU
The race for the no. 1 seed for the North division is going to come down to the wire. ETSU
will be playing for pride in front of its home crowd as UNC-G fights for a higher SoCon tournament seed.
Drew: ETSU; Wilson: UNC-G

ELON over WCU
No one wants to play Elon right now. They have won three conference games in a row, two of which
were against the top two teams in the North division. The Phoenix is trying to resurrect its season while WCU
is just limping around until it gets bounced from the SoCon tournament. Drew: Elon; Wilson: Elon

Monday, February 14
Davidson over CHARLESTON
The only thing scarier for Wildcat fans than this road game may be the long-haired guy in the Black Eyed
Peas during the Super Bowl pre-game show. If the Wildcats win this road battle, the table will be set for
an undefeated conference season. Drew: Davidson; Wilson: Davidson

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2005
They keep allow a field goal over the next four minutes. In the meantime, the ’Cats had gone back ahead
by 13, and the game was all but over. In the half, the Wildcats converted on 55 percent of their
shots from the floor and, perhaps most telling, tallied 22 points in the paint. The Spartans, meanwhile, converted on just
32 percent of their second-half shots. Kenny Grant ’06 asserted himself on the offensive and defensive end in a way
I had not yet seen, getting to the basket with relative ease to fill up the box-score with a career-high
21 points, eight rebounds and six assists. Brendan Winters ’06 was again lethal from behind the arc, nailing 5-7 three-point
attempts on his way to a game-high 22 points, but he too got to the basket on his patented baseline
drive time-and-again. Overall, the Wildcats were running up and down the court, converting on easy buckets, and making plays on
the defensive end. No, Davidson didn’t blow out UNC-G in the half, but in the end the outcome was never
in much doubt. It was the most complete 20 minutes of basketball I have seen since coming to Davidson last
year. UNC-G is an athletic group, and they showed it on occasion on both the offensive and defensive ends of
the court. They are one of the better teams in the Southern Conference, and they will be a tough out
in March. Overall, though, the Wildcats were better in almost every facet, even on the road, than the team that
was tabbed among the SoCon elite. Finally, with the win, there’s no remaining question mark on the SoCon slate. There
are numerous good teams in this conference, including Chattanooga, UNC-G and College of Charleston, and almost any team in the
league could beat the Wildcats on a given night (just see the Elon game). When Davidson plays at its highest
level, though, as it did Saturday night, no one can beat us.

CHATTANOOGA over UNC-G
This game could decide the top seed for the North division in the upcoming SoCon tournament. UTC will avenge its
road loss to UNC-G and set up an interesting last two weeks of SoCon action. Drew: UTC; Wilson: UTC

ETSU over WCU
This game is a coin flip. I want to bring in the kid from the Super Bowl and make sure
he gets at least three revolutions this time in order to make it fair for both teams. Drew: ETSU; Wilson:
ETSU

ASU over Furman
This game showcases a middle-of-the-pack South team versus a middle-of-the-pack North team. The South is better as a whole, but
I like the home team in this match-up. App. State may still be fighting for a top North division seed
in the conference tournament. Drew: Furman; Wilson: ASU

GSU over The Citadel
Georgia Southern is a better team and will be playing at home this week against The Citadel. I expect the
Eagles to take care of business and work to secure second place in the South division. Drew: GSU; Wilson: GSU

Wofford over ELON
There’s no way Elon can win five in a row, right? This is the Phoenix of Elon, N.C., not the
Phoenix Suns.
