14 PERSPECTIVES THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2005

Staff Editorial

Resignations regrettable, but process fair

Two long-time supporters of Davidson College resigned as members of the Board of Trustees this week over an issue that,
in their view, goes to the core of Davidson’s identity. That issue, of course, is the relaxing of the Christian
requirement for members of the College’s Board of Trustees. John Belk and Steve Smith have each played a prominent role
in building the Davidson we students benefit from. While acting on their principles is commendable, these community-minded leaders knew, or
should have known, that their public resignations would have negative repercussions on a College they have served and contributed to
for decades.

The change in the trustee requirement was moderate in scope, long overdue, and would have carried far greater consequences had
it not passed. As our editorial board has argued in this space before, it will hardly cause the College to
stray from its Presbyterian heritage, but instead further embrace its roots in the Reformed tradition. More practically, this was a
change that had the support of a vast majority of students, faculty, and trustees. Even among alumni, the most divided
group, many wrote to express their approval or to complain that the reform did not go far enough.

Countless individuals deserve credit for spending time and energy on making this process as open and honest as possible. Under
the leadership of President Vagt and John McCartney, chair of the Board of Trustees, over 17,000 letters were sent to
alumni about the proposed change before the trustees’ vote. A retreat organized by the leadership last February allowed the trustees
to explore what it means to be a college in the Reformed tradition, ensuring that any vote would be thoughtful
and in the institution’s best interest. Vagt and McCartney were willing to weather personal attacks for this action. Their selfless
service is the kind of leadership Davidson needs to prosper in the future.

On the other hand, the self-righteousness displayed by Belk’s and Smith’s public resignations will leave a legacy that overshadows the
scholarships and buildings given in their names. As these leadership styles reveal, there is a constructive way and a destructive
way to approach this, and any, dialogue. Only the former is befitting to Davidson’s identity.

The Davidsonian

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel

Managing Editor
Mike Giglio

News Editors
Liz Barry, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia

Perspectives Editor
Matt Bandyk

Arts & Living Editors
Elizabeth Burkhead & Sara Sams

Yowl Editor
Brendan Parets

Sports Editors
Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrory

Photography Editor
Jessica Hodge

Business Manager
Nick Horton

Advertising & Circulation Managers
Page Persons & Janelle Milanes

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. Phone (704) 894-2148. E-mail: [email address]

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Trustee change reflects Reformed tradition

Davidson College’s Board of Trustees recently decided that people who are not active members of a Christian church may serve
on that board. Some have criticized this as a move away from our Christian heritage. I would like to offer
a different interpretation, as I see the change as a forward-looking expression of how we want our particular understanding of
Christian faith to be embodied.

Davidson College is related to the Presbyterian Church USA. It stands in that part of the family of Christian churches
known as the “Reformed tradition.” The college’s Statement of Purpose is explicit about our religious heritage and convictions: “Davidson commits
itself to a tradition that recognizes God as the source of all truth, and finds in Jesus Christ the revelation
of that God, a God bound by no church or creed. The loyalty of the college thus extends beyond the
Christian community to the whole human community and necessarily includes an openness to and respect for the world’s various religious
traditions.”

For Christians in the Reformed tradition, God’s truth is revealed fully but not exclusively in Jesus. As human beings, our
understanding of God’s truth is always imperfect and partial, because we are limited by historical and cultural circumstances. Therefore, we
Presbyterians believe no church or denomination fully embodies or expresses the one truth revealed in Jesus. Precisely because of our
faith in Christ and in light of our own limitedness, we must be loyal to people of other faiths. We
may not agree on many theological matters, but we should respect and love one another, for Christ called us to
love both God and our neighbors. In pursuit of truth, we should be prepared equally to tell others what we
believe and also humbly to listen to their beliefs, for perhaps we can learn from each other ways to be
more humane to one another and faithful to God, which is what matters in the long run.

Davidson College has worked diligently to embody this Christian identity. Five years ago we initiated a program in which students,
faculty, staff, and alumni explore their vocation in terms of faith commitments. This program, led by a Presbyterian minister, encourages
students to consider entering ordained ministry, brings Christian scholars in the Reformed tradition to teach on our faculty, and promotes
conversations across faith traditions.The recent changes to the Board of Trustees as a turn away from our religious heritage is
perhaps to make mistaken assumptions about the tradition in which we stand. In our campus religious life, we help students
of many backgrounds find ways to be nurtured in their faith. In collaboration with local houses of worship and religious
organizations, we now have, in addition to myself, 10 adults (including ordained clergy from the Episcopal, Methodist, Presbyterian Church USA,
Presbyterian Church of America, and Jewish traditions, and a Catholic laywoman) working with student religious organizations. Every Thursday approximately 200
students gather at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church for an ecumenical, student-led Christian service of praise and worship. We also
have Catholic, Episcopal, Jewish, Presbyterian, and Quaker worship on campus on a regular basis.

To understand the recent changes to the Board of Trustees as a turn away from our religious heritage is perhaps
to make mistaken assumptions about the tradition in which we stand. At its best, ours is not a tradition that
fears, excludes, or belittles those who are different. From its beginnings in the 16th century, the Reformed tradition has been
ecumenical in spirit. Davidson has never sought to be a school only for Presbyterians, though they continue to comprise the
largest Christian denomination represented in the student body. Today, the college also has Buddhist, Hindu, Jewish, and Muslim students and
staff. They are as much a part of the Davidson family as any Presbyterian, with as much to contribute to
our common life. If we are to be authentically Christian in our particular Reformed context, we should respect them enough
not only to “allow” our sisters and brothers of other traditions to be trustees, but, in fact, to hope that
they will serve the college in that capacity. Our recent policy change therefore gives us reason to be glad that
we seek to be a Presbyterian church-related institution that bears witness to a Christian tradition in which respect for and
loyalty to all people is a hallmark and a source of hope for the whole human family.

Rev. Robert C. Spach ’84
Chaplain

Reprinted with permission of The Charlotte Observer. Copyright owned by The Charlotte Observer.

Board of Trustees gave into secularist pressure

Yesterday’s Charlotte Observer trumpeted the resignation of John Belk, an alumnus of distinguished business and political credentials, from the College
Board of Trustees, for inescapable differences stemming from the Board’s recent vote to allow non-Christians to serve on the Board.
Was it worth it? What has the Board accomplished by allowing non-Christians 20 percent of the seats on the Board?
Surely not comity. Belk and Steve Smith, another Board member, have just resigned. Moreover, many alumni, students, and others see
this vote for what it is: a vacuous attempt at assuring the outside world that Davidson, indeed, gets it. I
cannot come up with a better explanation for the vote. I remember the utter lack of interest of the student
body—save for the consistent editorializing by the Davidsonian—in the subject over the last four years. Though campus sentiment favors a
change to the Christian requirement, I perceived little pressure for a change. The Board had felt the same way, until
this year. What happened, then? There must have been pressure—considerable leverage, actually—coming from somewhere. The re-creation of a Reform-themed professorship,
rightly called a joke by the religious professors two weeks ago in the Davidsonian, smells like bait dangled from the
tight hand of a strong-willed Administrator in order to coerce holdouts to recant. After all, the main argument by reformers—that
allowing non-Christians on the Board is more in keeping with the ‘Reform tradition’—is utterly illogical. How can greater representation of
non-Christians possibly make the group more amenable to keep with Christian tradition in the future?

And the issue will not go away. The 80/20 agreement is preposterous, as most any Board member will tell you.
Why 20 percent non-Christian? Why not 25 percent? Or 50 percent? Why not abolish the quota completely, as some progressives
on the Board had originally insisted? The strong desire by somebody—or group of somebodies—to produce a symbolic victory for secularists
has led to an absolutely unworkable agreement. On top of the squabbling which is sure to take place among the
Board during the next decade, we have a greater concern. The spirited opposition of many alumni, including John Belk, the
College’s largest donor, could very well have serious implications for future fundraising for capital projects and enlargements of the endowment.
However, I should note a positive effect of Board reform. It has given all those within the College community a
chance to see the willingness of our beloved College’s officers to sacrifice stability, tradition, and intellectual fortitude for the hope
of recognition by those who distrust any mingling of religion or sacred authority with education. This distrust manifests itself in
many ways, yet is marked by its inability (until now) to invade Davidson College, even as it has conquered almost
every other elite institute of academe. Alas, I hope that this event will be the last time that the College
caves in to the dominant secularist attitudes of our times.

Roland Foss ’05

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor. Please e-mail submissions of less than 250 words to davidsonian@davidson.edu. We reserve the
right to edit for length and clarity.
