THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2005 = 11

Public disagreement Compromise is key on Kashmir issue good for campus

I never saw it coming. When I was offered a position on the Davidsonian editorial staff, I saw a great-looking extracurricular, an opportunity to work with interesting, opinionated Davidson students, and a lot of time trying to master the nuances of the newspaper’s MAC computers. What I did not see was a flood of passionate letters and articles touching on issues as sensitive as gender, race, stereotypes, and sexual crimes. I was equally as blind to the possibility that articles published in the Perspectives section of the Davidsonian had the power to divide, unite, irritate, infuriate, and provoke Davidson’s community and inspire campus-wide debates and disagreements.

What do I think of these unforeseen consequences? I think they’re great. But let me explain. Division, argument, stereotypes, and accusations: these we can do without. However, these potentially detrimental interactions do not go away if we ignore them, especially when they relate to topics as personal as those recently discussed in the Perspectives section of the Davidsonian. If we refuse to air our disagreements in an organized and structured manner, animosity will not disappear; instead, it will remain inside our community, silently festering until something provokes an explosive and possibly disastrous reaction. Such a reaction could be mild, but when dealing with topics as delicate as race and gender, the likelihood of someone responding with hatred or violence is not negligible.

So what good does venting about these issues in a public forum such as a campus newspaper do? A lot of good. Ask the author of any such article or column. By taking the time to think about the issues, identify their feelings, organize their thoughts, and write a coherent commentary, the authors themselves arrive at a better understanding of their views. But the advantages of their work are not limited to just themselves. Those who read such opinions are also provoked to respond to others’ ideas, prompting them to come to a better understanding of where they stand on the issues. This creates an atmosphere favorable to productive debate.

HALLEY AELION

Furthermore, I applaud the Yowl for being bold enough to start the whole controversy in the first place by raising such a sensitive issue without fear of political correctness. And after the writing is over, actual debate can take place, as it will on October 5 in a luncheon sponsored by Davidson’s Women Committee (DWC). In my opinion, the DWC has taken this recent controversy in just the right way by using the campus’s obvious gender disagreements to further encourage debate and discussion. It is not just the DWC who has been smart enough to use the Davidsonian as the educational tool it can be. Alpha Phi Alpha, SISTAHs, and the faculty have also joined in. I applaud their efforts. Furthermore, I applaud the Yowl for being bold enough to start the whole controversy in the first place by raising such sensitive issues without fear of “political correctness” (a term I consider to be a 21st-century euphemism for plain old censorship).

Long before this politically-charged 21st century, Davidson College was founded to be a liberal arts college; its founders imagined a campus dedicated to the promotion of a curriculum based on humanist teachings which encouraged students to learn a broad variety of subjects to be better prepared for the real world. But the one skill these humanists really stressed was dialectics: or the use of discussion and debate to arrive at the truth. I am proud of our campus for continuing this tradition today, and I hope it continues far into the future. Don’t agree with me? Write a letter.

Halley Aelion is a sophomore from Bowie, Md. Contact her at haaelion@davidson.edu.

Like two toddlers quarrelling over a favorite toy, Pakistan and India have been at loggerheads over Kashmir since 1947. I could go on to cite statistics about how many hundreds of thousands of people have been killed. But while I greatly respect the soldiers on both sides who gave their lives in the line of duty, I believe the greatest impact has been off the battlefield, on the hundreds of millions of people who live in these two countries. Unimaginable sums of money have been spent buying new planes and maintaining huge standing armies; this money could have been better spent reducing illiteracy and poverty, building infrastructure, and fueling economic growth. With a significant part of the population living below the poverty line, the poor who are starving for food and the businesses starving for cash don’t have to compete with the biggest money drain—the military.

But there is hope for the future in the leadership of both countries. With economically-minded men at the helm in both countries, Indian PM Manmohan Singh and Pakistani PM Shaukat Aziz, hopefully both countries can see beyond the tanks and guns and focus on the starving masses in their country. Both India and Pakistan have been historically averse to change. Rather than making progress in leaps and bounds, the governments have been saddled back by their electorate, who see any change in policy as succumbing to pressure from across the border. For most of its history after independence, Pakistan has been under military dictatorship. The last two democratically elected leaders are living in exile out of the country, and the religious extremists remain quite a powerful force in the country. And across the border in India, the bureaucracy hasBelow is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Population below the poverty line in both countries, economic development is of crucial importance. At the heart of the issue is the Kashmir dispute. Generations of diplomats on both sides have spent the better part of their careers working on an agreeable long-term solution, but to no avail. And any territorial concession from India is extremely unlikely, as it requires a two-thirds majority in the Parliament—no government has been able to put together that kind of majority for anything, let alone for giving up land! Pakistan is also not likely to give up its claim to Kashmir, as even the slightest indication of compromise by the Pakistani government would be met with huge domestic backlash. But perhaps we can start with baby steps. Instead of scratching our heads for a long-term solution, let’s start with a short-term ceasefire maintaining the status quo. That could bring more results by allowing both nations to focus on internal matters without fear of losing ground on Kashmir.

On September 15, I watched as 10,000 people and a handful of Cirque du Soleil rejects conquered 120 acres of land in north Charlotte. Billy Joel’s “My Life” played as this deluge of emptors elucidated the intendment of their lives by acting like a flummoxed but passive bovine herd headed for the abattoir (sorry about the vocab, but it’s my first op-ed of the year and Financial Aid slashed my aid to pieces, so I have to show my parents I’m learning something).

The spectacle was attended by Charlotte mayor Pat McCrory and County Commissioner Jim Puckett. McCrory was happy to mention that the victory for capitalism I witnessed was facilitated by the 2000 new jobs created by the Taubman Centers real estate investment trust. Puckett reminisced about his childhood, which included growing up less than a mile from the site. I found this ironic since he had been instrumental in the desolation of a good chunk of his old stomping grounds. By the end of the day, 80,000 denizens of Charlotte and the surrounding area had attended the opening of Northlake Mall, but I would wager that I was one of the few worrying about the implications of this mall, and the mall culture in general. Of course, few if any of these jobs were created by locally-owned companies, but that didn’t matter.

Intervention is not the way to resolve this dispute. Both nations, India particularly, would see this as undermining their sovereignty. Instead, there should be economic incentives to bring the troops back from the border and initiative to spend the money on education and policies that will spur economic growth. Only then can India and Pakistan start to realize their economic potential.

Aneesh Kulkarni is a freshman from Charlotte, N.C. Contact him at ankulkarni@davidson.edu.

‘Mini-Birkdales’ to change community

I still don’t understand why 10,000 people were waiting all morning for a mall to open. I don’t want to critique our entire consumer culture—it’s the backbone of the Chinese economy—but the sight of all those people trying to get through one pair of sliding doors was ridiculous. Perhaps I’m just too old-fashioned to savor the fruits of progress. By the time my class graduates, there will be two new “Mini Birkdales” affecting the town of Davidson in both economic and practical ways. One such project will have two hotels and be built right at exit 30 and will confound drivers and the children at the two schools next to the project with three traffic circles. The other will be built on South Street south of Davidson Elementary with a lot of high-density housing. Both could cause traffic nightmares, endanger elementary school children, and receive a nice revenue stream nine months out of the year from our student body (full disclosure: I was hit by a car in third grade because of poor traffic and safety planning around what was then the new Davidson Elementary). Nevertheless, if managed correctly the shopping centers could put more money into our community, and generate tax revenue. Additionally, Summit Coffee has the right of first refusal for the “coffee shop” slot in the development on Griffith Street, keeping Davidson Starbucks free a little longer. Still, many of the town’s citizens feel the mere concept of a commercial development is heresy. These are issues that we as Davidson students should care about. If you register to vote in Davidson, you have the chance to either re-elect or remove some of the people responsible for these decisions. The deadline is October 15.

Sam Spencer is a junior political science major from Davidson, N.C. Contact him at saspencer@davidson.edu.