10 - WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2005 PERSPECTIVES & THE DAVIDSONIAN

U.N. sanctions scandal: Oil-for-no-war

First, apologize for any confusion over my reading of the report on CBS’ memo scandal in my last article (“CBS
memo scandal shows liberal bias,” Jan. 19). My point was, in fact, not to say that the report condemned CBS.
Would they really appoint a panel that would say, “Yes, your news company is full of lying frauds”? A more-than-cursory
reading of the article will show that my intent was to point to the shoddiness of Mapes’ story, not to
the findings of the Left Wing Machine.

Second, to this week’s subject. I do not think United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan is a bad person. I
do not believe he should be punished or fired. In fact, I would like to personally thank him for thoroughly
proving something that the more insightful side of politics has seen since 1917: benevolent global governmental organizations are pipe dreams.

“I would like to personally thank [Kofi Annan] ... for thoroughly proving [that] benevolent global governmental organizations are pipe dreams.”

Davidson flunky Woodrow Wilson gave the first stab at a multilateral global government with his proposed League of Nations. At
the time, Senator Henry Cabot Lodge argued such a body would inherently be able to control the actions of the
United States without the United States’ consent. To do so would infringe on the rights and freedoms upon which the
nation is founded. If it did not do so, it would be an impotent and useless conglomeration of bureaucrats trying
to wield nonexistent power. Eighty-eight years later, Lodge lies smugly in his tomb, wishing only that he could have his
epitaph altered to “I told you so.”

Fact: the U.N. officially helped Saddam Hussein transact $110 billion in oil trading between 1996 and 2003.
Fact: the U.N. authorized sanctions against Iraq between 1996 and 2003.
Fact: Saddam’s personal profit from this business was at least $9 billion.
And our final fact of the day: when Charles Duelfer, head of the Iraq Survey Group, did not find WMDs
in his inspection of Iraq, he stated, “the Oil-for-Food program (OFF) in late 1996 was a key turning point for
the Regime. OFF rescued Baghdad’s economy from a terminal decline created by sanctions.”

So the sanctions were working. That little war that everyone got so excited about should not have been necessary. If
only certain people had been more focused on helping the Iraqi people than on getting cheap oil. Congratulations, France and
Russia: when the corrupt Americans need a model of how to conduct international relations, we will certainly look to your
example. Way to undermine your own sanctions. We dirty capitalists should work less for our own profit and more for
global good, just the way you at the U.N. always do.

Columnist Mark Steyn says he is unsurprised. “The system didn’t fail,” he claims in a Feb. 6 column in the
Daily Telegraph. “This is the transnational system, working as it usually works, just a little more so ... remote government
is unaccountable, and, as a wannabe world government, the U.N. is the remotest and most unaccountable of all.”

Indeed, Steyn raises a good point: to whom is the U.N. accountable? What higher power is there than the government
that claims to rule the world? There is the United States. As the world’s only superpower, America is now in
a position to determine the punishment dealt to the U.N. If we, as a nation, ignore corruption that makes Watergate
look like jaywalking, then the U.N. can keep on doing ... whatever it is that the U.N. does. If, however,
we voice discontent, or choose to pull our rear end out of this useless organization and turn that building in
New York City into the world’s ritziest homeless shelter, it will go the way of the League of Nations.

So the question is, do we accept the fact that $160,000 went to line a bureaucrat’s pocket, or do we
realize that corruption is a bad thing? The guilt-trip ads on TV say that 50 cents a day will feed
some child in Asia or Africa, as well as provide medical care and clothing. That’s 320,000 children who could have
been fed, but instead starved so that U.N. bureaucrats could eat caviar and drive sports cars.

Nathan Bradshaw is a freshman from Swannanoa, N.C. Contact him at nabradshaw@davidson.edu.

Trustee policy change doesn’t go far enough

The Davidson Board of Trustees previously required that 100 percent of its membership be Christian in order to maintain the
college’s ethics and image as a Christian college. Recently that requirement was lowered to 80 percent, a change allowing greater
diversity in Davidson’s governing body. The Board felt that this change fit within their Statement of Purpose and was required
for the college to keep up with the perspectives of its diverse student body.

All that sounds good, but is it enough? I’m inclined to say no. I’m a Christian because of my beliefs.
My beliefs make me who I am to some extent, but they don’t reveal every aspect of me. My beliefs
also limit my perspective. I cannot see things the way a Buddhist can or the way an atheist can, but
only from my perspective. If you created a group of people each with the same beliefs, each individual would only
serve to validate the others’ shortcomings and faults. In order to operate most efficiently, a group needs to diversify its
members to reflect a wide range of perspectives so that each topic proposed to the group may be scrutinized from
every side.

Efficiency and accuracy should be the goals of a governing body. Restricting potential members of a group to those who
believe in a specific creed limits that group in their ability to pick the most efficient and accurate members that
would otherwise be available. An open range of potential applicants allows for the best of every sect to enliven the
governing body.

My beliefs don’t determine my work ethic. Being ad +o i. Ast RosB

RUSCH

Christian doesn’t make me intelligent nor does being intelligent make me a Christian. Yet the Board’s membership policy promotes religious
doctrine above excellence. Although the body is surely capable of its task, the mere idea of such a religious restriction
implies that upholding the ideas of a specific creed is more important than a higher level of excellence. Supporting Christianity
serves no purpose when your job is to govern. A set of ethics may make you better at your job,
but it’s better to let that show through in the application process than to immediately assume the best applicants will
come from a specific set of individuals.

“If you created a group of people each with the same beliefs, each individual would only serve to validate the
others’ shortcomings and faults.”

I find it odd that my religious preference is used as a job qualification. I’m almost offended that my possible
lack in ability would be overlooked solely because I was Christian if I was competing with someone of a different
set of ethics. Our beliefs are our guides through life. I have labeled myself “Christian” because who I am dictates
that I do so. Others take on different labels because of who they are. My label is no better than
their label and their label is no better than mine. In the grand scheme of all that’s earthly, my label
will not affect anyone else unless they choose to let it.

Rob Rusch is a freshman from Jacksonville, N.C. Contact him at rorusch@davidson.edu.

Workplace laws undermine liberty

Last week I wrote about how we caged rhetoric from politicians and political commentators that when the government reduces social
spending, it is committing an “attack” upon recipients of such aid. I wrote that there is no rational argument behind
claims that someone can attack someone else by not helping them. Is there any real significance to my point? Was
I just beating up a strawman? In this column I want to address these concerns, because the principle of “harm
by not helping” is, unfortunately, not a mere strawman; it is a fallacy that infects mainstream ethical thinking and legal
practice.

One issue where this influence is clear is employment discrimination. If an employer fires or refuses to hire someone based
on his or her race, sex, or a few other traits, then that employer has committed a civil offense. The
Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits private employers from discriminating against an employee based on race, color, religion, sex or
national origin. The Age Discrimination in Employment Act and the Americans With Disabilities Act extended this protection to people discriminated
against because of their age and physical handicap, respectively. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission enforces these and other laws governing
the workplace by suing employers accused of discrimination.

So workplace discrimination clearly is illegal, but the more important question is, should it be? Keep in mind I am
not questioning the moral status of employment discrimination. Like most other people, I think that denying someone a job because
she is black or female, to name two examples, is loathsome behavior. Racism and sexism are immoral. But just because
an action is immoral does not necessarily entail that it should be illegal. As much as I hate discrimination in
the workplace, I must oppose the laws against it because I have a more fundamental belief in liberty: that people
should be free to do as they please as long as they don’t violate the rights of others.

Of course employment discrimination violates people’s rights, you might be saying! If I lose a job opportunity because my boss
is a bigot, then I’ve lost all the benefits that would have come with that job. So why can I
not sue you for that damage? But the logic of this argument is no different than the logic of “by
not helping me, you’ve hurt me,” which I addressed last week. My boss did nothing to harm me; he only
decided not to help me by giving me a job. No one’s rights are violated in that process.

But perhaps the employer violated my rights because he arbitrarily took an irrelevant characteristic into account when denying me this
benefit. But we can think of examples of actions that deny people benefits based on arbitrary discrimination, but would be
ridiculous to call crimes. Say that I am a sexist, and I refuse to buy a female musician’s albums solely
because of her gender. If we take the principle behind equal employment laws to its logical conclusion, I should be
hauled off to jail. The musician didn’t get the profits from an additional album sale because of her gender; how
is that any different than someone who doesn’t get a job because of her gender? Sure, losing a job opportunity
is a lot worse than losing one album sale, but if it’s really true that we should not take sex
into account when doling out opportunities to people, then the difference in degree between these opportunities shouldn’t prevent one from
being an offense and not the other.

The reason we do not think that racist or sexist music customers should be thrown in jail is because doing
so would be an unwarranted violation of their freedom. We don’t approve of their bigotry, but we still recognize that
the law should protect their freedom. There is no reason why we should consider an employer’s freedom to hire whomever
he or she wants any different.

Some may interpret my words to be advocating racism and sexism in the workplace. But saying that a person should
be free to do something is not the same as saying that you approve of him doing it. One of
the disadvantages of a free society is that for freedom to have any meaning, people must be free to do
things that many of us do not approve of. But the overwhelming advantage is that if we are consistent in
upholding freedom, the laws will protect our ability to do things we like, though others may disapprove of them.

Matt Bandyk, a junior political science major from Tampa, FL, is the section editor of the Perspectives section. Contact him
at mabandyk@davidson.edu.
