THE DAVIDSONIAN

RSC, continued from page 1

choices we make in the media to spin a story and woo the masses.” Costa thinks that Davidson students will identify with the contemporary elements of the play, including the media display, connections to Russia’s Vladimir Putin, and use of army fatigues in costuming. “It was very modern although not set in an exact year, high energy, and fast-paced,” said Andrea Wood ’07, who attended the opening performance. “By placing the story in a modern setting, the themes became unavoidably relevant to the political world of today. I found myself continually reminded of modern political figures and pressing international issues. With this production, I saw Julius Caesar in a completely new light that opened my eyes to the timelessness of the themes.”

“The Two Gentlemen of Verona,” on the other hand, is set in the 1930s and features jazz music and a set that is reminiscent of a New York City ballroom. “It’s gorgeously designed,” said Davidson English professor Cynthia Lewis, another member of the RSC Advisory Committee. “Fiona [director Fiona Buffini] came to her own understanding about a lot of features of a play that’s tough to crack.”

The modern interpretations of the plays have led to different audience responses. “With Two Gents, people find it easier to follow, and it also takes some of the problematic aspects of the play and makes them more palpable,” Costa said. “I think the music makes the play more fun. You want to get up and dance and boogie with them. With Caesar, the audience is more mesmerized, and it’s pretty quiet. It has that multi-dimensional quality to it so when you’re watching it, you’re watching the speaker but you’re also watching something else. It’s very captivating.”

As part of the 141 events of their residency, RSC cast members visited local elementary schools to educate children about Shakespeare. The RSC’s residency includes more than just stage performances. The actors, directors, and coaches are participating in workshops, lectures, and panel discussions open to the public, as well as visiting specific classes to aid students in their understanding and interpretation of Shakespeare. “There are 141 events draped around the 14 performances,” Lewis said. “They range from a gallery exhibit in the VAC to lectures on the topics of plays being performed and periods to panel discussions related to the topics.”

The events culminated with the Play On! Symposium on Monday, which featured renowned Shakespearean actress Rosemary Harris as the keynote speaker and lectures on topics such as gender issues and politics in the two plays. The members of the company see themselves as teachers, and they are by and large approachable,” Lewis said. “We pride ourselves on the approachability of our faculty, and they very much fit. They seek to provide outreach and an extending of themselves.”

Theatre and English classes in particular have been taking advantage of the RSC residency. Lewis’ Performing Shakespeare class has participated in workshops on voice, movement, and comedy with RSC representatives, and her Shakespeare survey class did scene work from “The Two Gentlemen of Verona” with the show’s director and assistant director and will hold a question and answer session with the actors this week. “We looked at specific scenes, and they gave us techniques and ways to look at getting out ofThe limitations of staging,” said Sarah Cantrell '06, a student in the class. The sixteen members of the Performing Shakespeare class believe that the RSC’s residency will further benefit them by exciting the campus for their production of “Much Ado About Nothing.” “I can’t imagine having this class without the RSC,” said David McClay '08. “I’ve been looking forward to this since I was a prospective. The entire school is in Shakespeare mode right now, so everyone will be really receptive to our performance.”

Lewis also believes that the residency will leave a lasting impact. “It’s so hard to quantify the effects and advantages and gain from a residency,” Lewis said. “As President Vagt said, this is not just a speaker who comes in for a couple of days and leaves. This is a two-week residency, and they are living with us. They are teachers all the time. They form friendships, and these friendships are partly affectionate and emotional, and they are partly educational. It’s permeating. It’s just so textured and rich.”

Vagt credited for RSC residency
By BLEVIN SHELNUTT
Senior Staff Writer

As the Royal Shakespeare Company’s 2005 residency at Davidson College is well underway, many students question why Davidson has been fortunate enough to receive the revered acting ensemble not once but twice. The RSC is able to perform anywhere in the world and does not frequently visit colleges in the United States. The 2005 Davidson residency is a one-stop residency, and the RSC will return to England upon the completion of its visit. Currently, Davidson and the University of Michigan are two of the few colleges honored with RSC residencies.

English professor Dr. Cynthia Lewis has been very involved with the RSC and credits President Bobby Vagt for quickly realizing the value of such a residency and taking the necessary action to bring the RSC to campus. “Our privilege to host the Royal Shakespeare Company hinges on the decisiveness of President Vagt,” Lewis said. “When given the opportunity to express interest, he did not hesitate. He saw the possibility of this happening, and his resolution and effectiveness made it happen.” Lewis also pointed out that the RSC’s willingness to return might be a result of the generous hospitality they were offered by the college in 2002. Actors and directors of the 2005 residency are staying at both the Village Inn and Guest House.

RSC performances began last Wednesday night with the premiere of “The Two Gentlemen of Verona” and will continue on an alternating schedule with “Julius Caesar” for the next week. When asked about ticket sales, Vagt said, “I was not aware of this before, but to be successful in the theatre is for 60 percent of tickets to be sold.” Davidson has been far exceeding that. Of an inventory of nearly 9,000 tickets, sales have gone very well according to Campus Center Fellow Leah Germelman who is responsible for managing RSC ticket transactions. “I have received calls from people all over the country who want to fly in to see the Royal Shakespeare Company perform at Davidson,” said Germelman. “[The Duke Family Performance Hall] has 629 seats and has had almost a full house for every show thus far, other than one matinee performance. The Friday and Saturday evening performances were nearly sold out.”

Germelman said the rush ticket policy, which allows students and community members to come to the ticket office and purchase available tickets on the day of a show, has also contributed to the strong ticket sales. Rush tickets may come between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. or one hour before performance time. Students pay $20 for rush tickets, and community members pay $30. Proceeds from ticket sales will go to cover the costs of the residency. Germelman reminds students that tickets are still available for shows, especially for weekday evening performances. The last of the 14 performances this year will be the Sunday, March 20 matinee. The RSC will return to Davidson for a residency next year and in 2008, with two additional performances in 2007.