Moron offended by Yow! SEE PAGE 2

Union chair being used

Chicken tenders stuffed in Cat’s CUPP

Nodding girl clearly gets what the Professor is saying See Page 8

Davidson has golf team See Page 9

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Admissions statement explaining that fall 2005 applicants.

Admissions visits by admissions staff, and admits that alcohol may have played a role in the oversight.

HUMOR

DAVIDSON'S NEWS

January 26, 2005

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2005

The Davidsonian

Admissions Office forgets Class of 2009

After long being silent about this year’s freshman applications to Davidson, the Office has just released a statement explaining that the numbers are down for the Class of 2009. Dean of Admissions Beth Wilcox explained, “Because of several oversights regarding the mailing of application materials to local high schools, we have not been able to continue the positive trend of recent years. In the last six years, Davidson has set new records each year for both the number of applicants and selectivity; this year we have been unable to do so.”

Many had been wondering about the atypical silence from Admissions this year due to their history of releasing several statements during the first semester regarding the impending success of the recruiting year. Several other members of the Admissions team, however, have more candid explanations. “Basically, we just forgot about the whole admissions thing this year,” said Assistant Dean James Serfas. “I mean, there was one hell of a party at Beth’s place in August the night before we were supposed to start on sending out this year’s materials. I don't really remember the next morning, and from what I can tell, neither does anyone else.” He continued, “I guess we totally forgot to send out those course catalogs to high schools.”

Juniors not shutting up about abroad

Juniors returning to Davidson from a semester abroad often report feeling alienated, depressed about coming back, and disconnected from their friends. Said Peter Willis ’06, who recently returned from a semester in Australia, “I almost feel like I belong in Australia, not here. It’s just that I can’t explain my experience in Australia, like all those cool bars, the skydiving, and the beautiful sunset cruises. And, nobody understands how I feel, because everyone else studied in Melbourne, and I was in Sydney. Plus, I miss all my friends who I met in Australia, but then again, it’s easy to visit them because most of them go to Florida State.”

Alice Wilkins, the Assistant Coordinator for Study Abroad, explained, “the phenomenon ‘going natural’ happens to many who study abroad. After the initial culture shock, many students begin to want to ‘fit in’ and express this wish through various lifestyle changes. For example, I know of many students who studied in England who, after a couple of weeks, began to use an English accent as well as English slang. I remember when one came back and had a lot of trouble ordering ‘chips,’ or french fries, from the Union Cafe.”

Most commonly, though, students returning from abroad express the changes that they underwent abroad by a new wardrobe, more subtle changes in speech patterns, or a new hairstyle. Explained Frank Sommers ’06, who studied in Barcelona, Spain, “I’ve really adapted a more ‘European’ style of dress, which is definitely more fashion-forward. I’ve also started wearing several necklaces, and I grew my hair long.”

Many students who did not go abroad are somewhat annoyed by the changes and new affects seen in their friends who have come back from overseas. Amanda Childs ’06, roommate of returning junior Naomi Heldon, complained of Heldon’s lengthy stories and boring anecdotes from her fall semester in Seville, Spain. “When she first got back, I wanted Naomi to tell me about her abroad experience,” Childs said, “but after an 18-minute description of her favorite tapas bar, my interest began to wane. And I didn’t say this out loud, but who the hell wants to hear an in-depth history of ‘la Catedral de Sevilla’ or Madrid’s ‘Museo del Prado’? I can’t stand how she always uses that pretentious Spanish accent when she says ‘Catedral’ or ‘Museo’.”

According to friend Tom Sherman ’05, Heldon not only bores him with her stories but has changed her attitude toward America. “The other day she went on this self-righteous rant about how wasteful Americans are and how conscientious Europeans are. All because I drove to CVS instead of walking. She even had the nerve to say ‘you Americans,’ as if she isn’t one herself. And who does she think she is with that ridiculous Real Madrid scarf and Brasil soccer jersey?” he said.

Like many returning juniors, Heldon is apparently unaware that her stories are abysmally uninteresting and extremely repetitive. “I love being back at Davidson because I get to tell everyone all about my semester. And there’s so much more to tell! I could still talk for hours about the impromptu flamenco show, the breathtaking view of Granada, and the diverse youth hostel in Barcelona.”schools. And, I knew that I was forgetting something, but unfortunately, I didn’t remember that it was school visits in Florida that I was forgetting. Oh well, you can’t go up every year,” Wilcox, while not making any statement regarding causes, concurred that materials were not sent out on time. “I admit that we might have been tardy in our recruiting. And, nobody showed up to lead the info sessions. But, if we look at the cost-benefit analysis, we can see that with the money we save in not sending out mailings, we can buy more t-shirts for accepted students. Most of those people think that they got a viewbook from Dickinson anyway.”

Admissions Counselor Andrew Hartman ‘00 said, “It’s lucky that we even are going to have a Class of 2009. I happened to check the Admissions mailbox before Winter Break, and apparently nobody had thought to do that all year. It was stuffed with applications, and there was another box inside the mail room. If I hadn’t checked that, we wouldn’t even know that people had applied this year.” Wilcox again refused to confirm or deny this statement.

With the sudden realization of the need for an admissions process, the office sprang to work over the break, hiring three new Senior Admissions Fellows to help with the workload. One of the new hires, Dana Rickles ’05, was available for comment. “I was there when Andy [Hartmann] told Dean Wilcox about the applications being in the Admissions mailbox. The next thing I knew, she had shoved about 20 applications and a $100 into my hands and told me to start reading.”

As of January 15, Wilcox reported that almost 300 applications had been successfully read and another 400 skimmed. “Thank goodness for the field hockey team is all I have to say,” Admissions Counselor Albert Young said. “Without their recruiting, we would never have come close to filling up the girls’ halls next year.” All athletes have been contacted with instructions to encourage former high school teammates to apply for the extended deadline, no longer Jan. 2, but rather March 2 for regular decision.

And, claimed Wilcox, there might be benefits to having a very small incoming class. “Granted, our ‘US News’ ranking is probably going to get hurt a little bit. But, at least RLO will finally shut up, and stop breathing down our neck to let fewer people in. Plus, our student to faculty ratio is way down, so we can use that on tours. In no time, we'll be just where we left off.”

6:30 a.m. class

The trials and tribulations of drop/add and schedule adjustment are well-known to most Davidson students and faculty. For Robbie Bowd ‘05, the frustrations of class scheduling went beyond the normal annoyance and ended up costing him a large amount of sleep. Due to a computer glitch, Bowd was accidentally placed among the freshmen in the Web Tree lottery numbering system. Since his numbers were so low, by the time the registrar got to his Web Tree, all of the classes Bowd had requested were full, so the registrar placed him in whichever classes still had openings, most of which were freshmen courses.

Luckily, when Bowd got his schedule, he was able to talk the professors of three of the classes he had originally wanted into raising the ceiling. Unfortunately, one professor refused, leaving him with only three classes. “All of the professors were really nice and understanding when I told them about my predicament. They all said that it was no problem to add me to their rosters. But the professor for the literature course I wanted was totally unreasonable and wouldn't take pity on me or listen to my reasons why I would have been a great addition to his class. It wouldn't have been a big deal if it hadn't been for the fact that I still needed my literature requirement in order to graduate,” Bowd explained.

So he resorted to searching the drop/add website to find his final course. It came down to two classes: The Literature of William Faulkner at 8:30 a.m. and the newly-added literature course Contemporary Neo-Classical Eastern European Literature. After a brief discussion with his adviser, Bowd decided to pick up the class in “Contemporary Neo-Classical Eastern European Literature.” Said Bowd, “I thought about it for a long time, weighed the pros and cons for each class, and finally decided that the 6:30 a.m. class would be my best bet. If I didn’t have such an extreme aversion to William Faulkner, I might have gone with the 8:30 a.m.” He continued, “I mean, 6:30 a.m. is extremely early, but at least I can grab some breakfast afterwards and then go back to sleep before my 1:30 p.m. class. Plus, the Eastern European Lit class is taught by a visiting professor, so hopefully it’ll be pretty easy.”

THE YOWL
Your Davidsonian Honor Section

This Week's Naysayers:
Nathan Bradshaw
Alana Vaughn
Bron Tennis
Christian Davis
Jeremy Bloxson

Editor: Brendan Parets

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editor at brparets@davidson.edu

Note: If you haven’t been living in a cave for the past year, then you should know that the Yowl is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.