14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2005

As good as advertised: first-year wrestlers pace 7-3 start

By WALKER SAIK
Senior Staff Writer

What does the average student know about Davidson wrestling? Probably not much, unfortunately. Their coach got fired, and they started
out 6-0. Anything else? Try this one: the first-year trifecta of Matt Pendle ’08, Trebor Clavette ’08, and Benjamin Graham
’08 has a collective record this season of 62-22. Keep in mind that only three other ’Cats on the roster
have a winning record.

Their early successes in college, however, come as no surprise after looking at what each accomplished in the high school
ranks. Clavette claimed all-America honors in high school for his fourth-place finish in senior nationals. Likewise, Pendle finished in the
top 15 at freestyle nationals over the summer and Graham was a three-time state finalist.

What may cause surprise, however, is how Davidson managed to lure some of the nation’s best to a team that
had gone 5-41 over the past three seasons. “It was a hard decision to make; having the opportunity to go
to some big wrestling schools tempted me quite a bit,” said Clavette, who is 20-6 on the season while wrestling
primarily at 165. “However, I reasoned that Davidson’s academic prestige and unique environment could not be passed up, and as
far as wrestling goes, I would do my best to help the program improve.” Score one point for Dean Cable.

“Coach [T.J.] Jaworsky was an amazing wrestler at college, so coming here I knew I would be pushed to my
potential due to the quality of coaching,” said Pendle, who is 20-8, primarily at 157. He added that Davidson’s academics,
Southern hospitality, and awesome weather sealed the deal. One point for ex-coach Jaworsky.

Graham, 22-8 out of the 149 weight class, didn’t seem as hard-thought on this issue, commenting, “Honestly, I didn’t really
care where I went, but now that I’m here, I like it a lot.” One point for, um, random frickin’
chance.

But they’ve all come—that’s the important part—and they’re blowing up in a good way. The team opened up to its
best start in 38 years at 6-0, and the ’Cats now stand at 7-3 after a victory against Franklin &
Marshall over the weekend.

“The team is off to a good start,” said Clavette, a native of Fletcher, N.C. “With some big conference matches
coming up, we will be competing against better teams than we have thus far, and we must win those to
prove ourselves.”

Meanwhile, Pendle, who is from Hazlet, N.J., wants to push Davidson wrestling back into respectability this season. “Team-wise, I want
to win a few SoCon meets. That would also mean ending with a winning season, both of which haven’t happened
here in years.”

Pendle, who claims to have a very unorthodox style of wrestling that combines techniques from the various club and high
school coaches he has had over the years, leads the team with 11 pins and wants to break the school
record in that category. Pretty good aspirations from a guy who says he was flat-out “terrible” when he started the
sport years ago. To top it off, Pendle hopes to get a chance to wrestle his rival from The Citadel
in the SoCon championship bout.

What makes these three even better, though, is that they aren’t the overzealous types that overthrow the upperclassmen without care
for team dynamics. They recognize the five sophomores and eight juniors ahead of them as the guys that started the
rebuilding process several years ago. “[The upperclassmen] are great role models to have, and all of them deserve credit for
how well the team is doing,” said Pendle.

For the past three-and-a-half years, only bad news has dominated the headlines for Wildcat wrestling. Despite the coaching controversy, these
three freshmen are helping the Wildcats continue a rebuilding process that began under Jaworsky, and they are finally creating a
positive buzz around the program that so badly needed something to feel good about.

By AUSTIN MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

The ’Cats ended a three-match losing streak last weekend, as Davidson defeated...Franklin & Marshall in Belk Arena, 30-13. Davidson earned
12 points without even touching the mat on Sunday, as F&M forfeited matches at both 125 and 197. Neither team,
however, suited up a wrestler at 184. In the first actual match of the day, Davidson looked to be in
good position to extend on the early lead from the 125 forfeit with Jim Avola ’07 up 6-4 with just
30 seconds to go in the match. Avola gave up three points in the closing seconds, however, to surrender the
7-6 loss and allow F&M to close the deficit. That was as close as the Diplomats would get, however, as
co-captain Matt Leonard ’06 won on a pin at 141 to extend the lead to a comfortable 12-3. Unfortunately, the
match did not live up to the hype. Pendle, who leads SoCon with 11 pins on the season, was unable
to take control of the match and eventually fell in a major decision, 14-6. Another of the Trebor Clavette ’08,
did not let the momentum stay in the Diplomat’s favor. Clavette earned a pin at 3:34, protecting his 10-0 record
in dual meet competition. “[Clavette] had a great match. He’s becoming increasingly aggressive on the mat, which has really paid
off for him,” said Drew Carey ’06. Clavette’s win also secured the victory for the Wildcats by giving them an
insurmountable 21-7 lead. Morgan Koukopoulos ’08 scored the final points of the day for the Wildcats, earning an 8-5 decision
at 174. Matt Leonard ’06 notched a pin in the 141 class.

’Cats celebrate senior day with wins over Radford, VMI
By ASHLEIGH FINN
Staff Writer

This past Saturday, the Davidson senior swimmers were honored in the last home meet of their college careers. Both teams
were victorious on the day, as the women defeated Radford, 132-105, while the men beat VMI, 161-131. The ’Cats began
the meet with a first-place finish in the women’s 200 medley relay. Brigit Barry ’07, Megan Hollar ’06, Leslie Sherrill
’08 and Jenny Hoekstra ’05 registered a season-best time of 1:51.88. Hoekstra was also victorious in her main event, the
50 free. Lauren Taft ’05, who endured illness throughout the week, also had a strong race in the last home
meet of her Davidson career, as she beat her competition in the 100 fly by more than two seconds with
a time of 0:59.83. Diver Judy Otvos ’05 had an impressive finish as well, placing second in the three-meter event.
Kristen Shields ’06, a strong asset throughout this season, placed first in both the 200 and 500 free. Hollar and
Barry pulled in more first-place finishes in the 100 free and 100 back, respectively. Finally, Eli Trefzger ’07 rallied through
the 1000 free, lapping many of the Radford swimmers and placing first in 10:53.00. Melissa Marquez ’05, Megan Perez ’05,
Erica Petrosky ’05 and Trisha Blackwell ’05 all swam exhibition events and looked strong in their final swim in Baker.
“It was so wonderful to have our friends and families there to support us for our last home meet,” said
Hoekstra. “They really made it special.”

On the men’s side, Michael Flowers ’05 and Foster Mathews ’05 also finished out their home careers in style. Both
led the 200 medley relay to a first-place finish, while Flowers was also victorious in the 500 free and second
in the 200 free. Mathews, meanwhile, placed second in the 100 breast. Not surprisingly, Fiete Stegger ’08 and Will Broughton
’08 also continued to rack up points for the Wildcats. Stegger placed first in the 100 fly and 50 free,
while Broughton captured first in the 200 free and 100 back. The Wildcats have a meet at Clemson before the
conference championships. Former Wildcat captain Diego Marquez ’03 traveled down to Davidson to cheer on his sister as well as
his former teammates. “I’m so impressed with the senior swimmers,” he said. “They have come such a long way since
their first collegiate meet here at Davidson. All nine of them have shown extraordinary leadership and team spirit. It amazes
me how much they have improved and grown over these past four years.” The Wildcat swimmers will travel to Clemson
on Saturday, Feb. 5 for their last meet before the Colonial Athletic Association Championships, which will begin the week of
Feb. 21.
