THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2005

Week in Review

The Week Ahead

Wildcat Game of the Week
10/27 7:00 p.m. Women’s Soccer vs. College of Charleston
Women’s soccer is now 7-0-1 in SoCon play and 11-4-1 overall. They haven’t lost since a 0-3 defeat at Northwestern
on Sept. 11. Their next game against C of C will be their final game and one step closer to
an unbeaten SoCon season.

Outside the Den
10/30 4:15 p.m. Eagles at Broncos on FOX
At almost midseason, the NFL is starting to take shape. Philadelphia (4-2) and Denver (5-2) is a good mid-season matchup
of the league’s top teams.

Bobcats get new home, NBA a new look
The cold weather that has been infiltrating campus recently has made me aware of the changing of seasons. Sports seasons,
that is. Soon, instead of sweating out a hot Saturday in Richardson Stadium or making the long (or really short)
trip to Alumni Stadium and the turf fields, sports-loving Davidson students will again have the opportunity to watch the men’s
and women’s basketball teams in action.

To answer a few questions you may have: Are we playing Duke again? You bet, although rather than an easy
trip to Charlotte, we’ll be traveling to Durham to take on the Blue Devils on their home court. Are we
making t-shirts? I hope so, and with any luck, this year the map of North Carolina won’t have Davidson floating
somewhere near Raleigh. In fact, the men’s team will start its season with that game, a Nov. 19 square-off versus
the team that an AP poll is calling No. 3 in the nation. A coaches poll placed Duke higher, at
No. 2, but the Wildcats aren’t worried. An informal poll that was conducted in the Belk computer lab has Davidson
beating Duke this year for the first time since Dec. 29, 1981.

The women start on Nov. 10 in their own tough game against the Tarheels of North Carolina, who sit at
a not insignificant No. 4 in the AP Top 25 of Division I schools. Since 2001, when they ended the
season 4-16 in the SoCon, the Wildcats have gradually improved; last season, their SoCon record stood at 14-6, a near
reversal of their position four years earlier.

In the NBA, with the season getting underway on Nov. 1, there is plenty of pre-season news to whet the
basketball fan’s appetite. If you’re looking to get beyond the Belk Arena, I recommend a journey to the brand new
Charlotte Bobcats facility, which they will share with the WNBA Sting. Aptly labeled the New Charlotte Arena (which will no
doubt be changed to the iPod Arena or the Visa Checkcard Dome within a year), it cost the city $200
million. Last Friday, the Rolling Stones officially broke in the new structure with a massive concert, and the Bobcats will
play their first game there on Nov. 5.

The new dress code for the NBA that was released Oct. 18 has sparked much controversy, and among other inappropriate
clothing items, it bans shorts, chains and medallions, and the cool-yet-impractical indoor sunglasses. Players will be expected to honor the
rules anytime they are not in uniform but are still representing the team. While many support the NBA’s decision, some,
like Tim Duncan, do not. “I think it’s basically retarded,” he said. On the other side of the argument, Stephen
Jackson told reporters, “I have no problem dressing up because I know I am a nice-looking guy.” He went on
to say, however, that banning visible chains targeted young, black males and was essentially racist.

The reason behind these changes was the realization of the steadily declining image of professional basketball in the eyes of
its fans. From Kobe Bryant to Julius Hodge, the Denver Nuggets first-round draft pick who was accused of sexual assault,
the NBA has taken some serious hits from bad press. Charles Barkley gave his opinion about the dress code to
Jay Leno with a bit more eloquence than Duncan. He said, “Young black kids dress like NBA players. Unfortunately, they
don’t get paid like NBA players. So when they go out in the real world, what they wear is held
against them. See, these players make $10 to $15 million a year, so nobody cares how they dress. “If a
well-dressed white kid and a black kid wearing a do-rag and throwback jersey came to me in a job interview,These
guys make an indescribable amount of money. Would it kill them to buy a suit? Davidson players dress up for
games, and as my dad would say, they look sharp. It’s a matter of respect both for yourself and the
team you represent. This Friday night, the men’s and women’s basketball teams, along with the cheerleaders, will be wearing outfits
that I suspect are not “business casual,” as they perform “skits and dances” for the student audience. This pep rally
will take place at 7:45 p.m. in the Belk Arena, in preparation for the next day’s last home football game
against Dayton and the commencement of the basketball regular season.

NFL scandals: much ado about nothing?
By KEVIN BIRNEY
Staff Writer

It’s like ESPN’s “Playmakers” brought to life. The Minnesota Vikings, the NFL’s most dysfunctional—and entertaining—franchise topped themselves recently with their
latest scandal: a party on two chartered yachts that led to misdemeanor “lewd conduct” charges for 17 players. You don’t
have to know calculus to know that alcohol plus strippers equals lewd conduct. The annual rookie party, which went down
on Oct. 6, triggered a wave of negative publicity that has swamped the franchise since. To me, though, the only
shocking thing is the outrage expressed by some members of the public. Surely we cannot be so naive as to
think that this type of party does not happen in the NFL constantly. But there was Dean Johnson, Minnesota’s senate
majority leader, saying, “Maybe if this happens in L.A. or New York, folks would say this is just another day
in the life of an NFL player. But not in Minnesota. There are still moral expectations here.” This comment alone
is offensive to people from L.A. or New York (no morals there I guess), but Mr. Johnson goes on to
say, “I never thought I’d live long enough to see Randy Moss come back to Minnesota to be a role
model.”

And herein lies the real problem: this story was inflamed because of the Vikings' history. From Onterrio Smith’s Whizzinator (a
device designed to hide marijuana in urine) to coach Mike Tice’s ticket-scalping incident to Randy Moss in general, the Vikings
have been an easy target for public cries of outrage, which is unfair. This happens everywhere. Strippers? In Atlanta, Michael
Vick’s strip club alias, Ron Mexico, has become so famous that the NFL had to ban customized Vick jerseys with
“Mexico” on the back. Misdemeanor charges? Nothing the Vikings did was as bad as the Redskins’ Sean Taylor assaulting a
man with a gun outside of a Miami club. (Taylor, by the way, starts every Sunday, pending legal action.) And
these are just two examples of what has happened to almost every NFL franchise recently. So why the big fuss?

Make no mistake, this is not a moral problem; it’s a problem of wins and economics. Tice wants wins and
is worried that the team’s “lack of focus and concentration” due to the negative publicity led to a 28-3 loss
to the Bears the next week. He’s the only person in all this that I feel sorry for because he
is on the hottest seat in the NFL and his job is on the line. New owner Zygi Wilf wants
wins too, but for a different reason. This incident could not have happened at a worse time for Wilf, who
is trying to nudge through a bill that would give the Vikings a new stadium to replace the dungeon that
is the Metrodome. I’m sure Wilf wants nothing—including this black eye—to interfere with his multimillion-dollar deal. He’s concerned with dollar
signs, not moral issues. Wilf’s reaction to all of this? A profanity-laced speech to the team behind closed doors. Classy.

The players don’t deserve a reprimand, as if they were 12 years old. They do, however, deserve a fine and
possibly staggered one-game suspensions for all 17 involved. Their actions have consequences, so punish them and move on. Don’t whine
because these players aren’t role models—NFL players are real people just like everyone else. They make mistakes and do stupid
things with their spare time. Whether they should be or not, they aren’t role models, and they certainly aren’t a
moral compass for the rest of society. The bottom line here is that this team still has enough talent to
win the division and make the playoffs, which will almost certainly be enough for Tice to keep his job. Such
is life in pro sports. If they lose, Tice has created an environment where this behavior can go on and
become a “distraction.” If they win, he has persevered. All eventually will be forgiven.
