THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2005 3

Honor Council, faculty to discuss relationship at closed meeting

Students on Davidson’s Classics Tour were among the thousands of people present in St. Peter’s Square in the Vatican for
the election of Pope Benedict XVI.

Pope, continued from page 1

the clouds yet we waited with the tens of thousands to greet the new leader of around two billion Catholics.
“Shoulder to shoulder, toes to toes with (and occasionally on the toes of) African nuns, German tourists, American students, Italian
priests, everyone with cameras and cell phones. The occasional light sprinkle of rain helped keep the rising body heat bearable.
“Church bells across the city were ringing, national flags and digital cell phones were waving. After the man in white
appeared on the center balcony of St. Peter’s facade, I heard a few young Italian men behind me crying out,
almost frantically, ‘Viva il Papa!’ “When the crowd started chanting ‘Benedict! Benedict!’ for a moment it felt like I was
standing in the middle of a sold-out U2 concert. But there was definitely a different energy there than at any
other spectacle. The excited crowd cheered but also hushed itself when the Pope wanted to speak. “Pope Benedictus XVI sang
the benediction to the response of resounding ‘Amens’ rolling up from the sea of people below. The man beside me
began to cry softly. Out of the sea of people I saw a pair of arms holding a wooden crucifix.
“With the political ramifications of this papal choice I expected to see a few disappointed faces. If there were any
there, I missed them for all the smiling faces of dads kissing their children’s cheeks, glowing strangers wanting to share
their excitement, satisfied spectacle seekers, and Catholics of all kinds.” —Adam Martin ’06

“We were unsure from the beginning. Some people were running, but we weren’t certain why. Up in the sky—to the
right of Michelangelo’s massive dome—we saw a tuft that might have been white smoke or was it a sly cloud?
But then, from the heights of Giancolo hill, the Garden of the Caesars, the tolling bells from every corner of
Rome reached our ears, and the race was on. We followed a priest into the Vatican bus station. “‘This is
the fastest way,’ he said. “We emerged into a growing, sprinting crowd that would not have seemed out of place
in a disaster movie. Ahead of us loomed the south wing of St. Peter’s Square. We burst through Bernini’s colonnade
to find the square full of people, but still more poured in. “We were on the edge, but managed to
push far enough towards the middle to get a good sight of the window where the Pope was set to
appear. Flags—American, Italian, Mexican, Spanish, Brazilian, Scottish, Australian—waved all around us. The press of bodies, the heat of the crowd
and the noise of thousands and thousands of people was almost overwhelming. “When the crowd started chanting ‘Benedict! Benedict!’ for
a moment it felt like I was in the middle of a sold-out U2 concert. But there was definitely a
different energy than at any other spectacle.” —Adam Martin ’06

By BRANDON CARROLL

“The crowd extended well into the Via San Pietro when the curtain opened to reveal an aged cardinal. ‘Brothers and
sisters,’ he said in Italian, French, Spanish, German and English before switching to the ancient, universal language of Latin, ‘Habemus
papa!’ (We have a Pope!) Cheers swelled at the news that the Sistine Smokestack had announced just over half an
hour beforehand. He continued, ‘Joseph ... Cardinal Ratzinger—Benedict the Sixteenth!’ and the cheers reached new levels. “Ratzingeremerged, beaming and beneficent,
waving his hands to the crowds. Thousands of hands and hundreds of flags waved in reply. He took the microphone
and blessed the crowd in Latin. Chants of ‘Viva il Papa!’ and ‘BEN-E-DICT’ rang out from the square. —Wes Cobb
’07 LS

MAIN the MAIN place to...

Editor-in-Chief

The Honor Council and faculty members will meet Monday to discuss the relationship and tensions, if any, that exist between
the two groups. The meeting is closed to the public, but it should include all Honor Council members and any
faculty who choose to come. A survey to all faculty will follow the meeting.

“We want the faculty to continue to have faith in the student Honor system,” said Honor Council Chair David Crane
’06.

The meeting, which follows a similar gathering last spring, comes in the wake of a Davidsonian article that spelled out
faculty concerns with the Honor Council process. There, a few disaffected professors outlined concerns with faculty expertise being discounted and
a lack of intent to plagiarize being equated with not having plagiarized at all. The article indicated that some professors
or departments would no longer necessarily report suspected cases of plagiarism to the Honor Council. Crane and former Honor Council
Chair Chris Knowles ’05 responded in a letter that attempted to correct the record, feeling the situation had been exaggerated
in the article. They wrote that most professors continue to report cases, that lacking intent did not mitigate the transgression,
and that the Honor Council greatly respects “professors’ professional judgment.”

“Everything I know of that faculty have problems with are in the past,” Crane said. He indicated he did not
know what issues would be brought up, but that he expected primarily only professors who might have an issue to
take up with the Honor Council to attend Monday’s meeting.

Crane defended the decision to keep the meeting closed, feeling that an open meeting would discourage frank and fully honest
dialogue by some professors or students.

President Bobby Vagt, who will not attend the meeting, defended that decision as well: “I think the Honor Council is
probably doing the right thing in this instance,” he said. “To my mind there are many things that can come
out of that meeting, and have come out of meetings like it in the past.” He cited renewed faculty confidence
in the process and a renewed sense of responsibility by the members of the Honor Council. Vagt praised the Honor
Council for initiating contact over the issue. “For that I give them a great deal of credit for seeking to
converse rather than to complain,” he said.

The scientific survey will be sent to all members of the faculty. One question will divide faculty responses between those
professors who have had experiences with the Honor Council and those who have not. The anonymous, aggregate results will be
released to the public.

“We want to know what the faculty as a whole think of us,” Crane said. “Do they still trust the
Honor Council? If they’ve been negative, what can we do to improve?”

The meeting is at 4:30 p.m. in Chambers Gallery. The Honor Council also plans interactive mock hearings in the fall
to increase publicity and awareness of how the Honor Council works.

SWEET GRILLED CHEESE 1951 SINCE

VEGGIE MELT - VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD - VEGETABLE SOUP
Plus: FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE
HOMEMADE ORANGEADE, LEMONADE AND LIMEADE

Bet you didn't think of us for vegetarian fare!

Davidson: We Eat-in Take-out 896-7743
Sat-Thur 8-8 Fri 8-9
