14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2005

Role swap: offense sputters in weekend series vs. UNCG

By BRIAN HELFRICH
Senior Staff Writer

As solid pitching reappeared for the Wildcats after a short hiatus to open the season, the recent offensive surge came to an abrupt end this weekend for the baseball team. Facing one of the best pitching staffs in the Southern Conference in UNC Greensboro, the 9-9 Wildcats lost their weekend series 2-1 in three close contests.

The weekend started well for the ’Cats, as the home team won a thrilling 2-1 pitchers' duel in the ninth inning on Friday night. Davidson ace Andy Carter '06 pitched magnificently in his start, allowing only one run in seven-plus innings while striking out nine Spartan batters.

“Carter threw very well Friday,” Jay Heafner ’06 said. “The game featured two of the best starting pitchers in the Southern Conference.”

The Spartan starter was nearly as impressive as Carter, cruising into the eighth inning with a 1-0 lead. Fundamental baseball, however, brought the Wildcats back into the game. Andrew Musashe ’05 led off the eighth with a four-pitch walk, and Ronnie Shore ’06 sacrificed him to second. An infield hit by Michael Muniz ’05 put runners on the corners before Heafner lofted a sacrifice fly to center to tie the score, 1-1.

Wildcat reliever Justin Hartanov ’05 pitched a scoreless top half of the ninth, and the offense was able to muster up just enough firepower to win the game in the bottom half. Eli Benefield ’05 led off the final frame with a double, and Taylor Shoop ’06 drilled a single into right field to set up Greg Zage ’07 for a heroic ending. The sophomore came through in the clutch, as he lined a single to score Benefield and give the Wildcats the 2-1 win.

Hartanov earned his second win of the season, but the ’Cats’ success was a direct result of Carter’s sterling performance. The Williamsville, N.Y. native thwarted the UNCG offense, keeping Davidson within striking distance before its late-inning heroics. Carter threw for 72 strikes on 118 total pitches.

Unfortunately for the Wildcats and their fans, UNCG spoiled the dedication of Wilson Field on a gorgeous Saturday afternoon. Davidson received another solid outing on the mound, this time from Rob Wilson '07, but the pitching was not enough to win for the second straight day against the Spartans.

Muniz launched the game’s opening pitch out of the park for a 1-0 lead and his third blast of the year, and it looked like the Davidson offense was on track for another big day in the early season. The Spartans responded with two runs off Wilson in the fourth, but Davidson came right back in the fifth to tie the contest at 2-2 when a Muniz sacrifice fly drove in Shore from third. Benefield and Heafner each added two hits, but it did not amount to another score, and the Spartans tallied one more run in the eighth for a 3-2 victory.

It looked as if Davidson could pull out some late-game heroics on Sunday, using a five-run sixth inning to take a commanding 5-2 lead. Shore blasted a grand slam in the sixth en route to collecting a game-high three hits and four RBI. The home team could not hang onto the lead, however, as the Spartans battled back with a four-run seventh inning and won 7-5. Heafner and Benefield each again recorded two hits for the home team, as did catcher Alex Entrekin ’06.

“This weekend we battled in every game,” said Hartanov. “Despite not having the best outcomes, I feel that the team now realizes what needs to be done to be successful in conference play.”

The ’Cats look to bounceBack this Wednesday at national powerhouse South Carolina, Davidson will then hit the road for an Easter-weekend match-up with Elon.

MATCH-UPS TO WATCH

Gilchrist can be phenomenal at times, such as when he led the Terps to an ACC tournament championship in 2004. Other times, he is an erratic point guard that dominates the ball and the shots for Maryland. Gilchrist actually went down with an ankle injury against Clemson in the ACC tournament, and he didn’t play against Oral Roberts last Wednesday. If Gilchrist can’t go this Wednesday, little-used guard Sterling Ledbetter will see most of the minutes at the point. Either way, the point play will determine the tempo: Davidson’s methodical, patient set, or Maryland’s athletic, fast-paced offense.

Bowers has come on for the Terps at the end of the season, going 14 and five against Oral Roberts, but Kosmalski has shown he can handle some of the nation’s best post players, including his 25/13 performance against Shelden Williams earlier in the season. Davidson must hold control down low to have any chance against Maryland on Wednesday. Jan Johnson ’06 and Conor Grace ’05 will also have their hands full with Travis Garrison, a former McDonald’s All-American.

Caner-Medley was the Terps’ main offensive threat down the stretch, and he will likely be matched up against SoCon player of the year Brendan Winters in what is sure to be a high-scoring duel. Winters must keep Caner-Medley away from the basket and relegated to jump shots, as the 6’8” forward is just a 33 percent shooter from beyond the arc. If he gets inside, he could create a mismatch against the undersized Winters.

The University Studies Abroad Consortium, with programs in 24 countries, allows students to master languages and study disciplines — including business, fine arts, and history — at distinguished, overseas schools. Soak up the vibrant culture and be transformed by the experience of living in a foreign land.

- Summer, semester, and yearlong programs
- Wide range of academic courses
- Internships
- Language classes at all levels
- Field trips and tours
- Small classes
- University credit
- Scholarships
- Housing

HTTP://USAC.UNR.EDU
775-784-6569

With a quick 10-0 run that essentially sealed the victory, characteristically strong free throw shooting down the stretch sealed the coffin for VCU. With the win, the Wildcats again hit the road this past weekend, as they traveled to Southwest Missouri State on Saturday. In many ways, the game resembled the ’Cats’ previous contest, as both teams struggled from the field in the first half before turning it on in the second frame. Davidson jumped out to a 15-9 lead just over 10 minutes in, but the ’Cats’ sloppy play over the next several minutes allowed the Bears to go on a 22-7 run and jump out to a 31-22 advantage with 2:27 left in the half. Davidson finished the half in a flurry, though, as the ’Cats used three straight three-pointers to cut the lead to four at the break. Hot shooting continued to be the story in the second half, as Davidson shot better than 50 percent from the floor, including a 9-14 mark from beyond the arc, to run past the Bears.

Winters’ six threes in the game also broke the Davidson single-season record for three-pointers, giving him 85 on the year. “When you can hit threes the way we have done, it is really demoralizing to the other team, which opens up a lot of opportunities for us,” said McKillop. Logan Kosmalski ’05 also compiled his ninth double-double on the season, as he had 13 points and 11 rebounds, while Grant delivered 10 assists to bring his NIT total to 19. The win over Southwest Missouri St. puts Davidson...