. ARTS

‘In Good Company’: a romantic comedy with a twist

By SARAH SAMS
Arts & Living Editor

After viewing “In Good Company” (in some Davidson good company, I might add) I was pleasantly surprised with the movie’s evasion of most romantic comedies’ downfall: the plot doesn’t revolve around a cliché love interest that invincibly conquers all. But there is a love interest; the male role is the foxy Topher Grace, who is better known to admirers of comedic television as the smart-aleck teenager Eric Foreman on “That 70’s Show.”

Carter Duryea (Grace) is a 26-year-old business executive with a budding career. His new job is born out of the impression his crafty cellular phone pitch creates on a haughty, big shot corporate man—a job that replaces Dan Foreman’s. Foreman (Dennis Quaid) is a middle-aged father with traditional business methods and values. The name “Dan Foreman” is an apt nod to the father of Grace’s character in “That 70’s Show,” a middle-aged, passive-aggressive Vietnam veteran. This allusion creates but a twinge of a smile on fans of the television series, hinting that Dan is old enough to be Carter’s father.

Heightening this tension, Carter falls for Alex Foreman (Scarlett Johansson); the female counterpart in the central romance also happens to be Dan’s 18-year-old daughter. Though the somewhat random relationship between Carter and Alex peaks interest and adds spice to the plot, it mainly serves to exacerbate the generational tension between the young, modern entrepreneur and the hardworking, family figure. The conflict provokes questioning of modern-day business values: the conflict of company giants and corporatism (which seem to grow like kudzu) versus the more traditional hard-working employee ideal (the stock of which is greatly the baby-boomers who acquired these values in a pre-Walmartization America) persists throughout the screenplay. And though this conflict accentuates these differences and questions the direction business is heading in today, it also connects the two generations by highlighting problems of both characters and in both homes.

After having spent two seminar class periods dissecting “Four Weddings and a Funeral” with visiting McGee professor Douglas Glover, I have learned that a successfully captivating movie is painstakingly planned, combining image patterns, subplots, and the most effective conversation with minimal dialogue. The synergic effect is a smooth cinematic finish, providing a glossy film of viewer enjoyment over a deeper provoking of the mind and intelligent connections that are often unnoticed by the common, entertainment-desiring viewer.

A classmate revealed that her movie reviewing is based on a star-rewarding scale that takes into consideration the amount of time she spends thinking about it afterwards. And a smoothly finished, well-written screenplay should do just this: trigger mental questioning and ponderings concerning the thematic material after a pleasant, not-too-deep to trudge through viewing. The movie must be packed with things (purposefully ambiguous, including scene-connecting images and thematic passages), but wrapped well as to flow and work together.

The Encarta Word English Dictionary defines “synergy” as “the working together of two or more things, people, or organizations, especially when the result is greater than the sum of their individual effects or capabilities.” The slogan behind Duryea’s business campaign, “synergy” also describes the palatable recipe of “In Good Company.” It is a combination of an intriguing conflict and creative connections (the Dan Foreman allusion, for example)—an amalgamation that makes for a more interesting flick than your run-of-the-mill romantic comedy.

“IN GOOD COMPANY”
109 MIN. PG-13

Keke Oxfam dinner will dish out education on income equity

By SALLY STANHOPE
Special Contributor

Over the past few weeks, the Asian tsunami has increased the world’s awareness of international issues such as hunger and disease. Developed nations have provided unprecedented assistance to the Asian countries devastated by the tsunami. Many U.N. officials have sought to expand this international awareness to include other regions of the world that are plagued by hunger and diseases but rarely receive adequate aid or attention.

The Davidson campus seems to be fully engaged in these efforts to heighten awareness of hunger and disease not only in Asia but throughout the world. Many students, employees, and professors have donated money to help tsunami victims; the AIDS Ball Saturday raises money for the Metrolina AIDS Project and Mapendo of Sudan. The annual Oxfam Dinner, although it has not received as much publicity as the other Davidson fundraisers taking place in the upcoming week, offers Davidsonstudents and professors with the opportunity to participate in an interactive learning experience and discussion forum focused on long-term problems such as world hunger and preventable disease. On Thursday, Feb. 3 at 6 p.m., CROP will sponsor the Oxfam Dinner to raise money for the international relief organization and provoke participants to question the inequitable distribution of resources. The moderators divide participants into three socioeconomic groups: high income, middle income, and low income. Participants’ dinners vary according to their assigned group. Presentations and information given throughout the dinner provide participants with the causes, effects, and potential solutions to world hunger. The experience is intended to create discomfort. Most participants will fall into the low-income group and leave the banquet physically hungry. All participants will leave with a greater awareness of the complexity of world poverty. This year the dinner will encourage participants who desire to gain experience working with issues of world poverty to volunteer at the Urban Ministry Center, a Charlotte interfaith organization that combats poverty in Charlotte.

Davidson students, fully engaged in academics, jobs, and extracurriculars, hesitate before sacrificing an hour of their time to any fundraising gimmick. Participation, in the past, has been limited to about 40 students. The majority of Davidson students will not even consider attending the Oxfam Dinner. There is an infinite array of justifications. My gut reaction to the Dinner was that I was too busy and had gone in the past. Did I really need to do it again? The Oxfam Dinner is not another fundraiser gimmick. In fact, it only raises around $200. Its primary goal is to create an experience for participants that personalizes abstract, complex international issues. Although Oxfam Dinners, which are held annually at many colleges, follow a set format, each dinner reflects the contributions of the participants. The success of Thursday’s dinner depends on the students and professors who are willing to give up their time and money to focus on world hunger.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2005

Learning to love the natural world
By LEAH SWANEY
Special Contributor

Now, more than ever, science education and environmental awareness are in jeopardy. President Bush’s No Child Left Behind act, aimed at improving public schools across the country through a system of rewards for achievement test scores, has forced North Carolina elementary school teachers to neglect science education in the classroom. With limited time and textbooks, the focus on the basics of math and reading—in order to do well on standardized tests—has replaced much of the time originally devoted to learning scientific principles and building critical thinking skills.

In order to curb the decrease in science education in North Carolina elementary schools, the students in Davidson’s EcoTeam group teach science in Davidson and Mooresville Elementary Schools throughout the semester. Created in 1997 by a student at Warren Wilson College (near Asheville, NC), the EcoTeam program consists of a series of science lessons based upon the local environment of North Carolina, designed to instruct third-graders on scientific principles and foment care and concern for the natural world. Through creative, hands-on exercises, students learn about such basic processes as the water cycle and symbiosis. EcoTeam’s interdisciplinary approach, which stresses reading, writing, mathematics, and problem-solving, creates effective thinkers that are able to synthesize skills and ideas. The final lesson caps the program with a focus on environmental citizenry, in which students study their local communities and recognize positive and negative human-environment relations.

Aside from basic scientific instruction, one of the ultimate goals of EcoTeam is to produce environmentally aware citizens. To this effect, Caroline Hartridge ’05, the director of EcoTeam at Davidson, hopes to combine EcoTeam with Dr. Jane Goodall’s growing Roots and Shoots program. Roots and Shoots is an international education movement founded upon the idea that knowledge leads to service, whether in the environmental or the humanitarian arena. EcoTeam effectively combines knowledge of the environment with concern for its health and sustainability, and a community service component naturally grows from these two elements. The town of Davidson, recently lauded by the EPA for its implementation of Smart Growth principles, provides a great instructional model of positive environmental action and the benefits of respect for the natural world in human dealings. Hopefully, the next generation of Davidson citizens, challenged to environmental citizenry at an early age, will continue this trend of care and respect for the local and global ecosystem.