Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2005

Wetlands to be developed
Herp. Lab permitted to research environmental effects of construction
By Lexi HAMILTON
Staff Writer

Summers Walk, a 250-acre site encompassed in the 3.4-mile privately-owned stretch of land bordering Highway 73 along Davidson-Concord Road in
Davidson to Poplar Tent Road in Cabarrus County, includes one of the largest wetlands in the region. The wetlands provide
critical habitats for a highly diverse assemblage of amphibians and reptiles and are an important research location for Davidson College’s
Herpetology Lab.

ForestCity Enterprises, Inc., a $7.4-billion dollar company, has recently contracted to develop Summers Walk. Davidson’s Herpetology Lab has secured the
permission of the developers to continue their research in this area, which will allow developers and researchers alike to gain
a greater understanding of the environmental impacts of housing construction.

“The lab will sample the stream and wetland after the construction of the housing development,” Biology Associate Professor Michael Dorcas
said. Dorcas discussed the abundance of life in this wetland area, saying that one’s steps into the lower-lying parts of
the region cause the waters to ripple and splash as numerous amphibians move below the surface. The amphibious life is
also as unique as it is diverse. “The wetland,” said Dorcas, “is the only location in the area where the
Eastern Ribbon Snake is known to live.” Eleven different species of toads and frogs have also been identified in the
area, along with a variety of salamanders, turtles, lizards, and other species of snakes.

North Carolina law requires that development respect the perimeter of the low-lying wetlands, but it does not prevent development from
occurring in the uplands surrounding the wetland, which is critical for the survival of amphibious species in certain stages of
their life cycle. Development at elevations above the wetlands can also cause ordinary drainage into the wetlands to become problematic.
A significant alteration of water flow into and out of the wetlands would have considerably negative implications for the amphibians,
reptiles, and other animals that inhabit the area.

The developers of Summers Walk have sought and received advice from the faculty members of Davidson College who have worked
in the wetlands on how to best protect the area, though, at this point, it is uncertain what specific systems
the developers have designed to maintain the integrity of the wetland habitat. Potential solutions to these problems might include incorporating
settling ponds.

See Wetland, page 4

---

Associate Professor of Biology Michael Dorcas

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School
Best Lawyers in America ‘84—'05
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals
Adjunct professor of trial advocacy Duke Law School UNC Law School

LAW FIRM
We Are Proud To Be Your Neighborhood Law Firm
Concentrating in Personal Injury
Other Areas of Practice
Appeals, Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning, Family Law, Litigation, Real Estate, Wills & Trusts
In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203. Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-1699 (Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. University of Richmond
Commissioner for the Town of Davidson 83-85, 88-97
Town of Davidson Commercial and North End Corridor Plan ‘05
Mecklenburg County Real Estate Executive Council ‘03 to present.

---

Alcohol policy enforcement reasonable, members say
Students work to extend CatCard usage around town
By COLLEN McKown
Staff Writer

Newly-elected officers were sworn into the Student Government Association (SGA) last Thursday night. Issues discussed during the new officers' first
meeting included the Alcohol Policy, CatCard use, and the student organization SISTAHS of Essence. At the beginning of the semester,
many students said Campus Safety was being too strict concerning the enforcement of the new alcohol policy. However, SGA President
Ryan Arnold ’06 met...with Director of Public Safety and Police Fountain Walker to discuss student concerns, and many SGA members
said that Campus Safety was reasonable in enforcing the new alcohol policies on First Night Down.

“I was very pleased with the interactions between police and students on the court during First Night Down,” Jack Hubbard
’06 said. “I believe a balance of reasonableness and respect was achieved, and I hope this continues throughout the year.
I would like to thank Fountain Walker and his officers for doing a great job this weekend.”

Darryl Ratcliffe ’08 agreed with Hubbard. “I had RA rounds that night, and everything went really well,” Ratcliffe said.

However, problems of a different nature did occur during First Night Down. Groups of students from the NASCAR Institute were
found attending Senior Apartment parties, which violates the policy that uninvited, non-Davidson students cannot attend Davidson parties. Two of these
students were arrested for trespassing. Walker and Arnold also plan to go to the NASCAR Institute and discuss the problem
directly with the Institute.

On a different note, Peter Carolla ’06 has been working to extend CatCard use to different organizations around town. According
to Carolla, CVS is ready to sign a contract that will allow students to use CatCards at the pharmacy and
front desk. Furthermore, Fuel Pizza is very interested in taking CatCards. There has also been extensive CatCard negotiation between Arnold
and the Brickhouse. The Brickhouse views the process as too much of a hassle; a CatCard reader would cost the
restaurant about $2000, and it would be difficult to keep track of the receipts when using a new system. The
Brickhouse is proposing that Davidson students can buy gift cards for use at the restaurant.

SGA also approved the right of SISTAHS of Essence to be open only to women. SISTAHS of Essence is an
organization started in the fall of 2004 whose purpose, as stated in its constitution, is to “provide a support system
to all women of color.”

“I was very pleased with the interactions between police and students on the court during First Night Down. I believe
a balance of reasonableness and respect was achieved.” --Jack Hubbard ’06

SISTAHS of Essence participates in service events such as making beauty boxes for Ada Jenkins, and its members discuss issues
such as careers and interracial dating. “Men attend our Women’s Teas and support our community service initiatives, but membership is
restricted to women,” Whitney White ’08 said.

The newly elected officers sworn into the SGA included Freshman Class President Richmond Blak and Freshmen Senators Brian Aoyama, Ben
Ferguson, Coleman Hubbard, Omar Pickett, and Kate Sternstein. Independent Senators Greg Bartlomiejczuk ’08, Dana Jackson ’08, and Shane Montoya ’08
were sworn in at the meeting as well.

“My main goal is to listen to the needs of the freshmen class, because those 450-plus voices mean much more
than mine by itself. That said, I believe my job is to translate their requests into feasible plans and changes,”
Sternstein said.

Finally, the SGA elected Jack Hubbard and Blake Poole ’09 as its members of the month. “Jack is just a
shining example of what Davidson can do,” Sam Spencer ’07 said. “Blake has just done so much for Davidson in
the past month,” Josh Choi ’08 said.

Hurricane relief efforts continue

Hurricane Katrina relief efforts continued on campus last week with an auction of fraternity brothers sponsored by Sig Ep last
Wednesday. The auction raised about $2,600 in one-and-a-half hours. The highest bid was for Alex Libson ’07. His hall, Third
Belk, bid over $700 for a private serenade. Mike Parsons ’08 collected $260 for “a serenade, bedtime story, room sirens,
or a lap through the Union in an outfit of the bidder’s choice.”
