12 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2005

For you SPORTS Fans...

BROOKIE'S PICKS

Wrestling vs. UNC-Greensboro
January 19, 7:00 p.m.
Belk Arena

The wrestling team has somehow managed to stay focused and thrive amidst a cloud of controversy that emerged with the arrest and firing of former Coach TJ Jaworsky. Under interim head coach Bob Patnesky, the Wildcats will try to build on their best start in four decades in Wednesday’s home dual. Last week’s performance at the Virginia Duals cost the grapplers their perfect 6-0 record, and they will be looking for a chance to bounce back into the win column.

Charleston continued Davidson’s strong early run in the Southern Conference, as the Wildcats extended their regular-season SoCon winning streak to 13 games after starting 5-0 this year in conference play. The Wildcats again used clutch performances down the stretch, including another huge last-minute three from Matt McKillop ’06, his third in as many games, and timely foul shooting to put away the Cougars. The recipe for victory was the same against recent SoCon opponents Appalachian State, Elon, and Furman. Davidson’s ability to close out those close games is encouraging, and it is what a veteran team that starts a senior and four juniors should be doing. Certainly, the tough early-season stretch against the likes of Duke, Missouri, and Georgetown has come in handy as the Wildcats enter the truly meaningful part of the season. Hopefully, the momentum the team has built from these victories will continue to spill into February, and more importantly, March, when the Wildcats will truly define their 2004-05 season.

But while there are a lot of encouraging signs to take from the recent surge, including the play of McKillop, freshman Boris Meno’s emerging presence, and the continued domination of the glass, these Wildcats are also creating a trend that may come back to hurt them when they have to win at least three games to continue their season deeper into March. At times, the offense looks virtually unstoppable, as it did this past week when Davidson built consecutive 25-12 leads against the Mountaineers and Cougars at Belk in the first half. Davidson has a solid combination of guards and post players that can be lethal, especially when the ’Cats rely on an inside-out game plan. With Logan Kosmalski ’05, Ian Johnson ’06, and Conor Grace ’05, the Wildcats have a group that can pound the ball inside on any team in the Southern Conference, and the trio has been effective on the blocks and at the line. Kosmalski, in particular, has improved from the charity stripe by over 10 percentage points since last year to make himself a viable threat inside.

Yet, in those two scoring droughts against the Mountaineers and Cougars, Davidson went a combined 0-7 from three-point territory and registered only one free throw attempt during over 13 minutes of action. Sure, the Wildcats missed other opportunities and turned the ball over multiple times during those stretches to contribute to the offensive futility, but it seems as if the Wildcats get away from what has been their strength when the offense begins to falter. Davidson has great shooters, including Brendan Winters ’06, McKillop, and others, that force opponents to honor the play inside and allow the shooters plenty of time to set themselves and deliver on the perimeter. Once Davidson built those double-digit leads, however, the wheels immediately came off of any offensive flow in the game. To finish out the half against the Mountaineers, Davidson netted just four points as Appalachian State closed to within six points. Against College of Charleston, Davidson scored just two points over the next six minutes of the game as Charleston closed to within one. A closer look at those stats reveals what may have happened to allow the opposition back into the game. Davidson has been extremely successful inside the arc this season, scoring at a 50.5 percent rate from within the three-point line and converting on almost 74 percent of its foul shots.

Help admissions, watch
By JEFF HAMILTON
Guest Columnist

When I applied to college, I always envisioned going to a big school with big classes, big parties, and big sporting events. Somehow I ended up at Davidson ... go figure. Most of it has to do with this being the only school I got into; the rest of it has to do with ... this being the only school I got into. My parents both went to UNC, and I have always had a particular fondness for the Tar Heel sports teams, but something about being an...Out-of-state applicant and my College Board scores made that a not-so-simple feat. Alas, I settled in at Davidson in the fall of 2001, and there is nothing wrong with that, other than the fact that we haven’t drawn 6,000 people to a sporting event on campus in over 10 years, and our tailgate parties lack a little something I like to call alcohol. Oh yeah, and the academics make me feel/look like a fraud (especially music classes). Otherwise, I am happy, healthy, and excited heading into my last semester (fingers crossed on that one) of college. These days I often preach to prospectives and freshmen about the merits of Davidson, giving them my side of the story and assuming they all shared my high school opinions of Davidson: dorky, docile, and devoid of fun. I have come to realize that not everyone thinks that way before arriving here, and certainly, we have forgotten that stigma by our first “First Night Down.”

Where am I going with this, you are probably wondering, but it all filters down into two things. First, me wanting to have a wonderful, memorable, final semester, and second, me wanting to include all of you in it. Since I am filling in for my roommate “the sports columnist” who often tarries from sports topics to deliver you his latest drinking exploits in text, I will now discuss the Davidson basketball program.

When I was a freshman, our basketball team (yes, Davidson) won the Southern Conference Tournament and advanced to the NCAA tournament (yes, that 64-team tournament you fill out the brackets for). We almost, could have, should have beaten “THE Ohio State University.” Well, we haven’t made any appearances in the tournament since then, but I am telling you all right now we have a great chance of doing it this year, and then hopefully spoiling some bigger school’s grand ambitions. Being a spoiler is a great role for our school to play, not just for our own visceral satisfactions, but for the general quality of our college’s existence. I know the hard-working admissions office would like to take much of the credit for Davidson’s ever-increasing national name recognition, but the truth of the matter is that more people will learn about Davidson College with one win in the NCAA basketball tournament than the admissions staff could alert in a 10-year period. Alumni donations also correlate directly to athletic successes. I guess what I am saying is that if you are a basketball player, there is a lot of pressure on you. This school needs you to assist it. Ironic, isn’t it?

Now, most of you aren’t going to make it to the NCAA tournament game, which will probably be halfway across the country. I will, so I'll fill you in on that later, but this is what you can do for now. Go to every Wildcat home game you can. Fill up the friendly arena that was built for us by the magnanimous Belk family. It’s really not that large, so come ready to yell at opposing players (and be heard) and bring a general ruckus level to Davidson athletics that has not been seen before. We need this to support our players. We need this to help our school. We need this for ourselves. Get out of the library for a couple of hours on Tuesday night; it cannot possibly be that great, although, I wouldn’t know. You don’t even have to drive anywhere or pay anything to go to a game. I’ll be in my usual seat in Section Three, observing proudly as we defend our home court and march on to “The Big Dance.”