THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2005 3

Minorities, from page 1

Race was not considered a real issue for Davidson.” Murphy, who spoke first, supported the view of Davidson as a
school that in the 1960s was separated from the racial changes occurring in the country. When he entered the college
in 1966, he was one of only two black students and found it difficult to adjust to the differences from
his all-black community in Charlotte.

“I did not expect any professor to tell me that I could not take their class,” Murphy said. “I did
not expect a patronizing attitude from anyone. I did not expect to be alienated. I was.”

Although Murphy initially struggled to meet the academic demands at Davidson, he sought help and support from professors and eventually
decided to stay. “I only had one goal, and the goal was to get educated,” Murphy said. “Everything else was
extra. I could not room with any other black student that was here. It was not thought of as a
good idea to let us room together. There were times when I was on campus for a month, two months,
and I did not see any other black students.”

Frustrated by what he believed to be a college quota of admitting two black students per year, Murphy spent the
summer of 1969 traveling through the Southeast to recruit black students. Nine of the students he recruited that summer were
accepted, and seven of them ended up enrolling in Davidson. He also started the Black Student Coalition, although none of
them had any notion that it would one day become a recognized organization on campus.

Despite his struggles, Murphy does not regret his Davidson experience and claims that he found entering law school in 1977
to be much easier because of it. “Frankly, I think it made me a better person,” Murphy said. “I think
I grew a great deal while I was here. Some might think that you would come away feeling bitter, but
I did not.”

Perez came to Davidson over twenty years later as a Puerto Rican from Fort Lauderdale, Florida and also found it
difficult to adjust to the college’s racial atmosphere as one of the two Hispanics on campus. “I had to take
speech therapy class because I spoke Spanglish,” said Perez. “I also had a lot of colorful words in my vocabulary
that I considered normal.”

Perez, who was on a football scholarship, had trouble keeping up with the amount of work required at Davidson and
nearly left the college after the team was demoted from Division III to Division I. “Christmas break, I packed up
everything,” Perez said. “I stopped by the director of admissions to say goodbye because he had recruited me. He locked
me in the office for three hours and literally convinced me to stay. I did not go home. I stayed
there for most vacations because I did not have the bus fare to go home.”

According to Perez, his situation improved during his junior year. “I realized it was not Davidson’s job to understand me,”
Perez said. “It was my job to help them understand me. I started to learn the language. I started to
learn to study. I started to get help.”

Though Perez experienced several personality conflicts at Davidson and struggled to fit in with the black students while retaining his
Puerto Rican identity, he, like Murphy, values the impact that Davidson had on his life. “I tell people I was
born in New York and raised in Fort Lauderdale, but I was reborn at Davidson,” Perez said.

After the panelists’ discussion, audience members were invited to ask questions and then to participate in small group dialogues on
race relations and the minority experience at Davidson. Although students and faculty members were passionate about the ideas raised in
both the discussion and the dialogues, they regretted that there was not more participation. “I would encourage people to come
to things like this,”said Emily Presley ’07, who served as a facilitator for the dialogues. “There is a need to
make yourself feel uncomfortable. I tried inviting my friends, but they said they had too much work. It is really
good to be able to hear about Davidson’s history.”

Brandon Zeigler ’08 helped coordinate some of the events and was also disappointed by the low turnout. “So much on
this day, people just take it as a day off from school,” Zeigler said. “You would think that more people
would take time to look back on what has changed. You miss out on good things. So many students are
missing out on this because they are asleep or doing homework.”

MLK, from page 1

Participants began at Richardson Stadium and finished near Chambers. Upon the completion of the race, runners gathered for a reading
of Dr. King’s “I Have a Dream” speech on the steps of Chambers. All the proceeds from the walk will
benefit the Martin Luther King, Jr. Memorial Project.

Secretary of Alpha Phi Alpha Brandon Zeigler ’05 said that his fraternity not only became involved with Martin Luther King
Day because it was a great cause, but also because Martin Luther King, Jr. himself was a member of Boston
University’s Alpha Phi Alpha chapter while he was still in graduate school. “It is not just a day to miss
school, but to take time to look back on the past of civil rights in our country,” Zeigler said. “We
can reflect, grow and learn from the past so that history will not repeat itself.”

Alpha Phi Alpha chapters all over the country are helping to raise money for the $100 million Martin Luther King,
Jr. memorial that will be built on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. Alpha Phi Alpha hopes to raise $5,000
by the end of the year to contribute to the project.

Fluker is a professor of philosophy and religion at Morehouse College, a historically black college in Atlanta, Georgia. He based
his convocation speech around the topic of leadership. A community discussion followed in the Union.

New this year to the Martin Luther King Day celebratory events on campus was the “Gospel Extravaganza.” The Davidson College
Gospel Choir combined with neighboring choirs in the Duke Family Performance Hall on Sunday night. Assistant Dean of Student Life
Ernest Jeffries said that he was particularly excited for the Davidson College Gospel Choir concert because it was their first
large-scale concert for the campus to enjoy.

Davidson alumni Calvin Murphy ’70 and Anthony C. Perez ’92 served as panelists for “The History of the Minority Experience
at Davidson.” Perez and Murphy spoke about their personal experiences as minority students at Davidson.

“King Day for Kids” allowed children of all ages and their parents to do crafts and listen to stories about
Dr. King. “There were at least sixty kids at peak time, which is more than there have been the last
few years,” said volunteer Beth DeBevoise ’06.

Small group discussions followed the afternoon program under the theme “A Dialogue on Race at Davidson.” Monday night’s panel discussion
moderated by Dr. Nancy Fairley was entitled, “The New Racism: A New Age of Prejudice” and addressed the many different
forms of racism, not just the black-white contrast.

Jeffries viewed Martin Luther King Day as an opportunity for students to unite over the life of the influential leader.
“Dr. King’s ideals are very similar to what we are about at Davidson,” said Jeffries.

Murphy and three of his friends

Your Reality: “I want to become a doctor.”

The Johns Hopkins Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program prepares college graduates with strong academic records to apply to the best medical schools
by giving the necessary attention and one-on-one guidance.

Fluker’s speech in the 900 room of Your Reality: “I don’t have the required courses for medical school.”

Application deadline: September 1 to March 1. For more information, visit www.jhu.edu/postbac or call 410-516-7748.

JOHNS HOPKINS Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program
