THE DAVIDSONIAN

Lilly, from page 1
budget cuts.

The Lilly Programs originally funded five yearly scholarships of $20,000 each for use by seniors planning to attend a seminary
after graduation from Davidson. These “bridge scholarships” could either be applied to the recipient’s first year at seminary or could
be split to cover expenses both at Davidson and at seminary.

Under the current plan, the scholarship funds are split among 10 ministry fellows, who each receive $5,000 in grant money
to participate in an eight-week summer internship at several churches in the Southeast.

The number of speakers brought to campus for the Lilly Lecture series will also decrease from four to one, but
funding for faculty to develop courses that incorporate the theme of vocation will remain available.

The Lilly Programs will continue to host its annual Theological Education Day, which was held on October 25 in conjunction
with Duke and Wake Forest.

Funding is not the only challenge that the

NEWS

Lilly Program is currently facing.

Beach-Verhey and Timberman are actively seeking to expand its presence on campus. Beach-Verhey recognizes that the average Davidson student is
over-committed.

“The number of activities happening on campus leads to an environment that is rich but also fragmented,” Beach-Verhey said. “The
clutter is difficult to cut through, but we [the staff of the Lilly Program] feel that our programs have a
place in campus life at Davidson.”

Although a primary focus of the Lilly Foundation is to encourage students to consider a career in Christian ministry, the
organization’s broader goal is to demonstrate to students the important role that faith and one’s values play in selecting a
vocation.

Participation in the programs, however, is not limited to potential seminary candidates, to Christians, or to those who are religious.

“The mission of the college is to prepare students for lives of service and leadership,” Beach-Verhey said. “Our program shares
this goal.”

photo courtesy of College Comm

Sophomores participate in the Lilly Program’s Vocational Vertigo program.

e-mail: fw@liu.edu * Web:

For over 35 years Friends World Students have been changing their lives and the world.

You can too — by gaining an international perspective through Friends World’s unique combination of academic disciplines, global citizenship, and
service learning.

Earn college credits or your B.A. from Long Island University, the seventh-largest private university in the country, while living and
learning in one or more of our four international centers.

NEW FOR 2005 Foundation Year in Costa Rica

Cross-cultural studies in:
JAPAN • CHINA • INDIA • COSTA RICA

Design your own plan of study or choose from academic areas of emphasis such as:

• Foundation Year • Comparative Religion & Culture
• Peace & Reconciliation • Environmental Issues
• Global Health & Healing Traditions

For information contact:
Friends World Program
Long Island University
1 University Plaza, Brooklyn, NY 11201-5372

(718) 780-4326

FRIENDS WORLD PROGRAM
LONG ISLAND

The Friends World Program is part of Long Island University, the seventh largest private university in the country.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2005

Five new trustees elected

By JOHN WATKINS
Staff Writer

Effective January 1, 2006, the Davidson College Board of Trustees will welcome five new members.

The alumni body elected two at-large trustees, Calvin Murphy ’70 and Debbie Dillon Darden ’78, and the Board of Trustees
separately elected William Rikard ’67, John Chidsey ’83, and Janet Wilson.

Director of Alumni Relations Matt Merrell said the Board of Trustees is principally responsible for “planning and strategic thinking for
the long-term, and shaping broad policies regarding admissions, hiring, and the college itself.”

The process of finding the two alumni-elected trustees began last June.

The alumni board originally looked at 25 alumni who were actively and continually engaged with the college and also Mecklenburg
county residents.

The alumni office then released a ballot with the four finalists and their qualifications. Of the 18,000 alumni who could
be reached, between 3,000 and 3,500 voted.

Darden, who lives in Charlotte, has stayed involved as a Davidson alumnus by serving as class secretary, Annual Fund co-chair,
class agent, and a member of the Alumni Association Board and the Athletic Foundation Board.

Having previously served on the board, Darden was a member of the ad hoc committee that reevaluated the requirement that
all members of the Board of Trustees be active members of a Christian church.

Murphy was one of the college’s first black students and helped found the Black Student Coalition during his senior year.
After he convinced the dean of admissions to hire him to recruit minority students, Davidson enrolled its largest class of
minority students.

Murphy is currently a senior partner in the Charlotte law firm Murphy & Chapman. He is also the president of
the North Carolina State Bar Association.

The Board of Trustees’ process for electing new trustees differs from the alumni board’s process.

“The by-laws dictate before all else the direction in which the search for a new candidate goes,” said Chairman of
the Nominating Committee for the Board of Trustees Ned Davis.

When the requirements set forth in the by-laws have been filled, the nominating committee must consider individuals with experience in
finance, in shaping admissions policy, and in religious life.

See Trustees, page 4

THE CREATOR OF “THE VAGINA MONOLOGUES” IS BACK ON STAGE - EXPOSING EVEN MORE

www.liu.edu/friendsworld

EVE ENSLER

$15 Student Ticket now available for all areas!

Available on-line at BlumenthalCenter.org/offer/goodbody2 or call 704.372.1000 and ask for student special.

SPECIAL TALK BACK WITH EVE ENSLER Nov. 3 immediately following the show! FREE with your Nov. 3 show admission.

Nov. 1-6 • Spirit Square’s McGlohon Theatre

704.372.1000 • BlumenthalCenter.org • Group Discounts 704.379.1380

Blumenthal Performing Arts Center
