WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2005

BELK SITE COURT

See Page 4 in Solo Cup
See Page 5
Saturday night
See Page 8
listening to Nelly
See Page 9

Campus Voices

THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

Pause April 20, 2005

The Davidsonian

The Davidson College administration announced Friday that after a string of recent controversies, The Davidsonian will be taken over indefinitely by the Office of College Communications. Within the past several months, tension had been growing between the editors of the newspaper and the administration due to protracted negative press involving issues such as the sophomore apartments, class sizes, and the controversy over the change in the Trustee religious requirement and the subsequent resignations. The administration feared that not only had the newspaper become too powerful, but also that it was causing unrest among the students, and giving both alumni as well as people from outside the Davidson community a negative view of the college.

Davidson President Tom Cloris '66 stated, "Unfortunately, we do not feel that the current editorial board of The Davidsonian newspaper is well representing Davidson College at this point. They seem to have forgotten that the newspaper is read by important alumni and by people from outside who judge the school based on what they read in The Davidsonian. It is extremely irresponsible for them to publish these extremely negative articles that show the school in a bad light. Until the student editors can learn to better edit what they say, I feel that the Office of College Communications will do a capable job of publishing The Davidsonian."

The head of the Office of College Communications, Andrew Walker '72, echoed Cloris' statements. "I have a feeling that many Davidson students are sick and tired of the consistently anti-Davidson slant of The Davidsonian. Davidson is a great place, and the newspaper should show that."

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Editor: Brendan Parets

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editor at brparets@davidson.edu

Note: If you haven’t been living in a cave for the past year, then you should know that the Yowl is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

These freshmen have no idea

Bill Lenker '07

I'll be honest: Decision Davidson this weekend really pissed me off. All these little kids running around my school just rubs me the wrong way, especially because next year, they're going to be annoying little freshmen. I mean, first-year students always piss me off, because they don’t know how Davidson used to be. And now, at the end of the second semester, all the freshmen think that they’re hot stuff, just because they've almost been here for a year. This year’s freshmen have no idea how much Davidson has changed since my freshman year. Take something like the Union Café. Now they have pasta specials. In the old days, they used to have specials on all sorts of food, like shrimp and stir-fry kind of stuff. But this year’s freshmen don’t know anything about that. I bet a lot of freshmen don’t even know that there was no such thing as the Big Cat Burger last year. And, I know that they don’t know that before the new Union opened, there was the Outpost, which was so much better than the Union Café. Even though I was never here for the Outpost, I’ve heard a lot of good stuff about it. This year’s freshmen weren’t even here for the old Chambers. They probably think that it’s always looked like it does now. Guess what: it didn’t.

Another thing that pisses me off is when people call West by its new name, “Tomlinson.” I always call it West, because even though it was Tomlinson last year, people still called it West. And the freshmen should know that the Kappa Sig house is called the Kappa Sig house, no matter which frat or eating house is using it. I hate it when freshmen call the Freshmen Olympics “Baker Night.” Back in the day, we did the Freshmen Olympics during orientation, and did PE 101, not Davidson 101. I get so annoyed when I hear some dumb freshman saying that she’s got “Davidson 101.” One time I told a freshman that I wanted a red bike, and she had no idea what I was talking about. I guess they call them “community bikes” now. Freshmen also have it a lot easier this year. I mean, Belk looks like a damn hotel now. It used to be a whole lot less nice. This year’s freshmen have no idea how the sinks used to look, and how the urinals were before the renovations. That old style Davidson stuff is lost forever. The cops used to be a whole lot less strict too. I can tell you that some of the stuff that used to go on would not fly anymore. These new kids have no idea how crazy it used to be here. And, this year’s seniors are so tame compared to last year’s. What’s even more annoying is that allthe changes that are going to happen for next year. Did you know that the housing lottery is going to be done over the Internet? Next year’s freshmen won't have any idea that it used to be done in Chambers Gallery. And, how about Commons? They will never have eaten a meal in the old Commons, and that just pisses me off. “Even though I was never actually here for the Outpost, I've still heard a lot of good things about it.” I think that as part of Orientation, the freshmen should have a session on Davidson history. They already do a little bit on that, but it’s all about really old stuff that doesn’t matter anymore, like the ghost of Chambers. But, I did learn some important stuff during the Davidson history session. For example, freshmen used to have to wear funny hats to identify themselves. I'll tell you what, I think that’s a good idea. Freshmen just don’t respect their elders anymore. We should bring back some system of seniority, because as someone who’s been here for a while, I think I deserve a few more rights than some freshman who’s been here for most of a semester. At least they should have parking by class, because I can tell you that there is nothing more annoying than seeing a car with just one parking sticker taking up space.

Dining Services, The new Davidsonian masthead features the changes in the newspaper’s slogan. If anything, I think that the new Davidsonians will be more fair and balanced.” Student reactions to the announcement were mixed. Some students, such as Amy Eckerds ’07, felt that the College Communications published Davidsonian would not accurately report the news. “The fact is,” said Eckerds, “The Davidsonian is going to read like a press release. If I wanted to read some positive fluff about Davidson, I’d check out the website. The only people who should be happy about this are the Libertas guys, because now people might actually read it.” Other students, though, are happy about the change. Peter Estos ’06 said, “When I get back to my room on Wednesday night, I don’t feel like getting all depressed by reading The Davidsonian. Now, I can just read some cute, fun articles, rather than stuff about how bad Davidson is.”

Ask Once again, I answer real questions about their true sex life that actual Davidson students sent in to me, an anonymous expert on sex. From a male student: I really have trouble putting on a condom, but I don’t want my girlfriend to get pregnant. We’ve been trying a lot of stuff for birth control that we’ve heard about on the Internet and in my fraternity house, for example, Saran Wrap, “washing” with vinegar, and spraying Lysol. I was wondering if these ideas are good, and if you have any other good birth control tips.

First off, these are all good birth control methods, especially Saran Wrap, which is known as the “barrier method.” There are some problems with the barrier method and breakage, so always make sure that the Saran Wrap is not stretched too thin. Other barriers include tin foil, wadded up newspaper, and home insulation. A little known fact: tin foil was originally introduced for birth control! For extra protection, try spreading deli mustard on the Saran Wrap (make sure that it is on your side!). Condoms always make sure that you test the strength of the condom that you are going to use by filling it up with water beforehand and looking for leaks and breakage. The other methods, known as the “clean up method,” while less reliable, also work very well. Problems associated with them include severe irritation. Moreover, it is extremely important that you perform them quickly, or else pregnancy may ensue. Also, these methods do not work against STDs as well as the barrier method.

From a female student: I took your advice last week about how best to pleasure my boyfriend, and after he came back from Lake Norman General Hospital, where he was treated for severe blood loss, he dumped me. How can I win him back?

One word: whips and handcuffs. For most guys, pain equals pleasure, so the more you hurt him, the more he'll like it. If I were you, I would tell him that you just want to apologize to him about the incident, and when he comes to your room, turn off the lights, slip on a little leather, and turn on some European industrial music (I recommend Rammstein). See where it goes from there! If I know your boyfriend, and I do from the report I received about his injuries, he actually enjoyed his hospital trip. I wouldn't be surprised if his “dumping you” was part of a role-playing game that he wants to play with you. I have yet to meet a guy who does not like to play role-playing games, especially the one with the female janitor and the office worker. You might want to invest in a sanitation worker’s uniform; do that, and wait for your boyfriend to come to your door, get down on his knees and plead for sweet, sensual mercy.

Arousingly, Dr. Sexpert!

Liability note: This is a parody. Please do not heed this advice.