THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 2005

Summer, continued from page 1

“scatter court,” which involves various food stations and food prepared as you order. Holthouser explained that the Vail Commons renovation
is directed by Director of Dining Services Dee Phillips, who “brings in the expertise of people, like designer Reggie Daniel,
who have done this kind of work before.”

For Holthouser, “Vail is a challenge, but Belk dormitory was a larger time-sensitive challenge.” In order to expedite the construction
process, the work is contracted out and deadlines are set from the beginning. Projects must be carefully orchestrated and meticulously
planned. Crews will work seven days a week with long hours in order to finish the project. July 4th will
be the only day off for construction crews.

Martin Court F presents another time challenge and is the only major dorm renovation scheduled for the summer. The physical
plant is taking on more risk with this project, acting as the general contractor. In this role, they will build
the schedule and directly hire trades. “We will do some things that students probably won’t notice including upgrading the wiring,
installing a sprinkler system, replacing gutters and washing windows,” said Associate Dean of Students and Director of Student Life Leslie
Marsicano. Other changes involve cabinetry, countertops, carpeting, furniture, and painting. New water heaters and refrigerators will be installed, and Marsicano
said that “students will be most excited about the dishwashers we are installing.”

Building manager Regina Hubard ’06 said, “Now I won’t get dishpan hands! I hope that all of the renovations will
be appreciated and preserved for future seniors so they can also enjoy luxurious living on the Davidson campus.” Two barrier-free
apartment suites will also be completed. These suites will be brought up to current handicap-accessibility levels. Additionally, landscaping work and
sidewalk construction will improve the appearance of campus. The sidewalks outside Martin Court F have not been holding up well
and will be replaced and extended along Ridge Road. A new sidewalk will also be constructed inside Patterson Court, perpendicular
to the existing sidewalk.

Maintenance work in all dormitories and academic buildings will also be completed. Marsicano said, “We hope to do significant work
in Knox, Irwin, and Akers to address continuing problems.” Projects will include overhauling the heating and air conditioning system, replacing
the windows, upgrading interior lighting, and improving the lounges. Students who live down the hill can also look forward to
new landscaping. Holthouser said he looks forward to improving the area by creating a lawn space between the three dorms
down the hill. Parking in front of the sophomore dorms will be reduced in an attempt to address erosion and
drainage problems and new sidewalks will be built to direct foot traffic in a better manner.

Dormitories get a complete overhaul approximately every eight years, according to Marsicano. Holthouser described the cycle set forth by RLO
as a “very aggressive renovation schedule,” and feels it is “unfair to assume everything can be renovated at once.” Additionally,
Holthouser said that one of the most important, but overlooked, assignments is going through each dorm room and making repairs
and completing maintenance work, not once but twice through the course of the summer.

Other areas of campus have been marked for future attention, as determined by the Capital Campaign. Duke is slated to
be renovated and an addition will be constructed to house the office of International Affairs. Refurbishment of the library has
been discussed. Attention will also be directed towards historic campus buildings, both with regards to restoration and preservation. Holthouser cited
many variables and considerations when planning summer construction.and renovation projects, but said he looks forward to campus improvements. Photo court.
1 Colla Conim Commons will undergo its first renovation during the summer.

LAW FIRM
We Are Proud To Be Your Neighborhood Law Firm

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School
Best Lawyers in America ‘84——'05
Concentrating in Personal Injury

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. University of Richmond
Commissioner for the Town of Davidson ‘83-85; ‘88-‘97
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals
Adjunct professor of trial advocacy Duke Law School UNC Law School
Town of Davidson Commercial and Other Areas of Practice
North End Corridor Plan ‘05
Mecklenburg County Real Estate Executive Council ‘03 to present.

Appeals, Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning, Family Law, Litigation, Real Estate, Wills & Trusts

In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-1699 (Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

Surveys, continued from page 1

population.” The large number of email surveys might be partially responsible for lowered response rates to the emails. For example,
only 359 students completed the Dining Services survey that was sent out this past semester. A total of 340 students
clicked the link for a survey conducted by sociology major Brad Lifford ’05. Of those, only 280 completed the survey.
However, Lifford still found his survey useful for his sociology thesis. “Making the survey anonymous usually helps with honesty, but
sometimes people just want to mess with the results,” said Lifford. “I would definitely use email again,” he added. “I
think email is the most efficient way to get people to respond to your survey.”

Sociology theses must be approved by the Human Studies Institute Review Board. While their content is regulated, the date that
they are sent out is not regulated or coordinated with other surveys. Not all students are adverse to the surveys.
Most, however, show a preference for emails that either concern or interest them. “I wouldn’t go so far as saying
I like the surveys, but they’re interesting and it’s nice to help someone out with their major,” said Cisco Morales
’07. “I’ll answer the ones that interest me.” Student interest in the survey’s topic seems determinative of whether or not
they complete the survey. Morales, member of the track team, said the “sports-related” surveys attract his attention. “I usually just
delete the emails unless the survey explicitly states what it’s about and it’s something that concerns me in some way,”
said Janelle Milanes ’07. Milanes also said she finds many of the surveys take a surprisingly long time to complete.
“I took a few of the surveys but they took so long,” she added. “Some seem like they would be
short but wind up taking half an hour.”

Some students are openly critical of both the number and content of the surveys. “Not only is the sheer quantity
of surveys reducing the sample size, but also poorly-worded questions bias a person’s response, which makes the data worthless,” said
Laurin Ariail ’05. “I think there should be more collaboration within the departments to limit the number of surveys that
the student body receives.”

Auxiliary Services remain hopeful that the surveys will provide a chance to receive feedback directly from students. “Any type of
survey I feel is beneficial since it gives people a chance to voice concerns they otherwise might not have an
opportunity to express,” said Director of Dining Services Dee Phillips. Auxiliary Services sent out surveys on the Bookstore and Dining
Services to the student body and contracted outside evaluation teams to analyze the data. Students rated satisfaction with the bookstore
at 3.59 on a scale of 1 to 5 in the past survey. Bookstore Manager Gwen Gardner says that the
bookstore got some useful and mostly positive feedback with the first survey. The biggest complaint was about the costs of
textbooks and merchandise, which will result in a new “Cat Values” program next semester. As a result of the survey,
the bookstore will also start carrying magazines. According to Gardner, the bookstore will send out a second survey next year
and continue with surveys every other year after that.
