_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Election, continued from page 1

for all committee chairs and other positions,” said Union Board President Steven Gentile ’06. “Ryan and I are already planning meeting times to discuss what we want our partnership to look like.”

SGA Vice President Bridget Kane ’06 said, “As a newcomer to SGA, Ryan has a lot to prove, but he is very motivated, and I am excited about helping him accomplish his goals.”

Arnold succeeds Katharine Hubbard ’05 as student government president. Hubbard acknowledged the consistent problem of communicating with students. “Increased communication is always a goal of SGA,” said Hubbard. “I believe this year we really made strides towards accomplishing that goal as we sponsored our first ever class forums and published our first newsletter.”

Hubbard is optimistic about the newly elected officers. “I think that Bridget and Ryan will be a good balance for each other and do a great job,” she said. “Ryan’s enthusiasm for the job is contagious, and I think Bridget will be an excellent Vice President.”

Newly elected SGA President Ryan Arnold ’06 and Vice-President Bridget Kane ’06 discuss next year’s calendar with current SGA President Katharine Hubbard ’05.

Sub-free debate, tsunami relief efforts continue

By Emily Kota
Staff Writer

On Thursday, SGA reps continued to discuss possible changes for substance-free housing. Other matters on the agenda included possible tsunami relief efforts to India, an ATC funding update, and a bylaw change.

SGA senators expect to receive the results of the sub-free housing poll next Thursday. The results will be used to formulate their final recommendation that will be presented to President Vagt.

A new perspective on the sub-free housing debate was introduced by Drew Carey ’06, who believes senators’ negative view towards sub-free housing causes them to overlook the benefits provided by the sub-free option. Carey maintains that sub-free housing serves to form strong bonding on halls, and that freshman year is not necessarily the best time for students to deal with too many lifestyle changes. The sub-free option makes students more comfortable with what can be a difficult transition to college, he said.

Carey conceded that sub-free housing might contribute to, but not cause, division on campus. He posited that the division is partially due to the location of sub-free and other halls. The option of choosing a sub-free roommate instead of an entire sub-free hall does not appeal to Carey. He feels this defeats the purpose of the sub-free environment.

In closing, Carey challenged senators to “look at sub-free housing from a different perspective,” of a group of people “not ready or not choosing to partake in certain activities.”

Carey’s visit prompted strong reactions from senators. While Jack Hubbard ’06 was quick to “applaud someone from outside SGA coming to share their side of the issue,” he also disputed Carey’s arguments. The senators had trouble isolating the issue of comfort with drinking from comfort with other issues, such as homosexuality, as a way to determine housing options. Due to unanswered questions, Carey will return and continue the sub-free housing discussion at next Thursday’s SGA meeting.

SGA decided to allocate $200 to a group of students concerned with tsunami relief, with the possibility of giving more funds in the future. The students studied in India and spent time in a town that has been hit by the tsunami. The group hopes to continue its efforts for the long term, not just to address tsunami relief.

The Activities Tax Council presented an update, focusing on funding “Woodrow,” the new student publication. Woodrow was allocated $1,700 in the fall to produce their first publication and requested $4,195.95 for software, office supplies, publication, and other expenses this semester. The ATC’s allocation of $2,245.95 was approved. The allocation was based on providing funds for one more trial semester, to “see how well they do on another issue” and “how well the student body accepts them on campus,” said Adam Gerstenmier ’05. Senators questioned whether Woodrow filled a new niche on campus.Concluded that the high-quality, glossy-finished publication does discuss different topics than the other student publications. The gloss of the magazine is a major reason for its high cost. Gerstenmier concluded when printed on a quarterly basis the format provided a durable finished product that stands apart. If Woodrow decides to move from quarterly to more frequent printing, other sources of funding, besides the ATC, will be necessary. Selling subscriptions and advertising were options suggested.

Katharine Hubbard ’05 submitted a bylaw change related to the election of students to the campus advisory councils. Elections are currently held in the spring, causing frustration for faculty and staff when students go abroad, leaving positions unfilled. The proposed change for elections to be held in the fall, rather than the spring, was approved.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2005

President - Conor Mooney
UCA Vice President - Regina Hubard
Student Conduct Council - Katie Cox, Shari Reid
Academic and Educational Policy Trustee - Andrew Waddell
College Relations Trustee - Molly McGowan
Ley and Budget Trustee - Matt Knight
Buildings and Grounds Trustee - Jamie Ferguson

From the outgoing president...

Dear Friends,

As my time comes to a close as SGA President, I cannot help but reflect on the past year. I am privileged for the experiences I have had working with so many dedicated students who love Davidson. If I had to pick a theme for the past year in SGA, that theme would be community. We strove to work with other organizations within our immediate college community as well as with the town of Davidson.

SGA kicked off last spring with the first annual Wildcat Red Day where we supported the lacrosse and baseball teams and raised $2000 for the Ada Jenkins Center. About a month later, April at the Lake debuted. In conjunction with PCC and the Union Board, I believe that we started a wonderful tradition of utilizing our lake campus and coming together on Friday afternoons to eat, listen to music, and be with friends. This fall we kicked off the year with a bonfire and pep rally to support our fall sports teams. I hope that when I come back for Homecoming next year and the many years after, that the tradition will have continued.

With the start of basketball season, we packed four buses of screaming Davidson fans clad in red to the Davidson v. Duke game. We may be the smaller school, but the pack of students in red t-shirts was a powerful experience to see. We continued to support athletics with the SGA-Patterson Court Challenge where we challenged every eating house and fraternity to come out and support our basketball teams.

Arriving back at school after winter break, we came back in the midst of a disaster overseas. The SGA and many students on campus stepped up to help raise money to aid the victims of the tsunami disaster. We are currently working with the town of Davidson’s Project Shelter to raise money for tents for families who lost their homes.

I am proud of SGA’s commitment to our community endeavors, but I am equally proud of our determination to make the best decisions possible regarding campus issues. We debated for hours regarding the extension of the pass/fail deadline, the funding of Club Baseball, and we will continue to debate about the best option for students regarding substance-free housing on campus. We worked to allow students to have a stronger voice on the SGA by hosting our first-ever class forums and publishing our first-ever SGA Newsletter.

Handing over the gavel to the new president Ryan Arnold next week will be bittersweet for me. I will miss working with such amazing, dedicated peers who have become my friends. However, I eagerly look forward to watching the progress and initiatives SGA will take under new leadership. Thank you all for allowing me the privilege to serve you. I am blessed to be a part of such a special community.

Sincerely,
Katharine Hubbard