8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Chem major pretty sure professor wore same pants last class
See Page 3

Junior buys cigarettes to impress 16-year-old CVS employee
SEE PAGE 6

Stray cat fed
See Page 8

Union Camel
See Page 11

Find new boyfriend
See Page 12

Better Than Ezra lead singer still on Campus, begs for guest meal
SEE PAGE 13

THE YOWL
Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Editors: Bobby Kenner, Jeff Yeakel

Half the campus hates: Nathan Bradshaw, Brent McCormick

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editors at bokenner@davidson.edu or jeyeakel@davidson.edu.

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

A Modest Proposal
November 9, 2005

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2005

The Davidsonian

The Davidson Biology Department announced on Friday that it will make a fundamental change to its curriculum next semester, departing from a standard classroom principle that has been in place for the last 54 years.

“Spring semester of 2006 will see a biology department that is willing to adapt to fit the needs of the current sociopolitical scene and offer a more diverse spectrum of knowledge to our students,” said Chair of Biology William Warburton.

The department has a list of some 26 alterations in general curriculum requirements, but the notable departure from previous years is the addition of the concept of “intelligent design” to every class.

“Too long Davidson has been trapped in a sort of worship of the tangible, the finite, the mundane. Science needs to embrace a broader perspective, one that includes the possibility, even the probability of some power beyond our capacity to measure,” explained Warburton.

According to the administration, the change comes in part as a concession to critics of Davidson who claim that the school fails to support its Presbyterian heritage with policies that take religion into account. Although secretly, many suspect that this was part of a compromise reached between John Belk and the college after their falling out over the trustee issue.

Some faculty are skeptical about the new policy. Robert W. Killingham Professor of Religion Janessa Bean wonders why addressing religious issues is necessary in a science department. “In my course on Modern Science and Christianity, I deal with issues like evolution versus intelligent design all the time. That’s my field, that’s what the course is about. Science does not have the same need for compromise with, or even consideration of the opposite side of the philosophical debate. Those scientists had better step off my turf before I bust out my riding lawnmower.”

Associate Professor of Philosophy Charlie McPherson agrees with Bean: “Science is about cold, hard facts. By allowing speculative theories with no substantiation to be seen as legitimate, the Biology Department is setting up students to believe in idle conjecture as much as they believe in laboratory-proven results. What’s next? Will we have to allow laughter into a science class? Not on my watch.”

Professor of Biology Farrell Johansson says she is happy with the change, as it will provide a new direction for class discussion, saying, “I’m excited. Discussion will finally have a real range of opinion, from the traditional Darwinian theories to the possibility that the first anatomically modern female human was made from a male’s rib.” Johansson hints she may even stop requiring weekly labs for Biology 112—a course once titled “Organisms, Evolution, and Ecosystems” that will become “Order, Divine Hierarchy, and the Chosen Species.”

Geology professor Terrance Wentworth is also looking forward to teaching classes with intelligent design theories. “As a geologist, of course I don’t give any credence to the theories,” explained Dr. Wentworth, “but the teaching of Young Earth theories means I have far less material I have to prepare.”The overall student reaction to the new curriculum is also positive. Biology major Amelia Burton ’07 said, “I was considering changing to a philosophy major after having to deal with too many facts and lab results this semester. I wasn’t even able to go out on the weekends I had so much work. Now that I can take some intelligent design classes, which count towards my major, I’ll actually have some free time. Instead of staying in on Friday night typing up a 12-page lab report, I can just jot down a few Bible quotes and then start throwing them back.” Dean of Academic Affairs Albert Rodriguez points to the Biology Department as a harbinger of Davidson’s new direction, which he claims is one of reaction against modern academic fads. “Things like falsifiable experimental design, repeatability of demonstrations, even the so-called scientific method—these are all products of a twentieth-century homogenization of academia,” said Rodriguez. “Davidson should stand apart from all these institutions that just follow the herd; we will strive to be a sanctuary for original and provocative academic thought. And if Harvard, Princeton, and Williams all stick their noses up at us, what should we care? God will smite them.”

WHAT DID YOU DO THIS WEEK?
Devon is a junior political science major from Washington, Va. Email him at deashford@davidson.edu

I have not attended many student-run discussion groups at Davidson, but the advertisement in The Crier for the pornography program really caught my eye. Every other topic that I have seen did not look very interesting; they are always “Iraq this,” or “God that.” Finally, here’s a panel on something important that I can relate to. The program was really top notch. It was one of those great moments where the conversation was really flowing, and you realize how intelligent and insightful your fellow classmates are. One young woman mused, “Ewww, how does that even fit in there? ... Hey, is there any more chocolate and cheese?” Another student correctly identified every sexual position on the screen, even the little known “Left-Handed Norwegian Tickle.” My only problem with “Pornography: What’s the Deal?” was the refreshments. Sure, the chocolate and cheese were good, but the only drink they put out was a gallon of milk. Don’t get me wrong; I like milk, but it doesn’t exactly go well with hardcore pornography. I ended up having to borrow one of Bert’s beers, which I was not too happy about since now I “owe him one.”

All in all, this was a great program to attend, and I encourage the students who were there to facilitate some excellent discussion on the issue of pornography in the future. I am constantly baffled by the belief of some around campus that porn should be a private issue. We at Davidson are a mature, intelligent bunch, and we should be able to have a casual discourse on important and prevalent issues.

An ad for ‘Pornography: What's the Deal?’ in last week’s Crier.