6

LIVING

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
SEPTEMBER 7, 2005

New health advisors on making good choices

By GEORGIE AHRENDT
Health Advisor

Sometimes the weekend rituals of the Davidson College student resemble a Discovery Channel nature documentary.

On occasion, we act as though we’re being driven by pure animal instinct. Our mating rituals, for example, often lack a certain amount of sophistication (like the sloppy snogging we euphemistically refer to as “the drunken hook-up”). However, what many of us seem to forget is that, unlike the animals on the Discovery Channel who are here to help, the counseling center, First Responders, and the student Health Advisors are just a few.

But while Davidson provides a great support system, we can’t stress enough how important it is to take personal responsibility for your health, both physical and mental, in your everyday life. No one but you can make sure you get enough sleep, eat a balanced diet, or practice safe sex.

The eager new health advisors of 2005-06 are, from left to right, Sam Hotchkiss '08, Nikki Linn '07, Jennifer Fernandez '07, Georgie Ahrendt '06, and Stewart Knight '08.

Unlike the higher thinking of the average college student, we do have, for better or for worse, the power of choice.

Hooking up while drunk doesn’t by any means make you an animal. My point is simply that putting yourself in charge of your body means respecting yourself and others.

Our health and personal well-being rely on the fact that we must make good choices for ourselves and for our bodies. Here at Davidson, we don’t always have to make these often daunting and stressful choices alone. There are so many people on campus who are here to help. The counseling center, First Responders, and the student Health Advisors are just a few.

But while Davidson provides a great support system, we can’t stress enough how important it is to take personal responsibility for your health, both physical and mental, in your everyday life. No one but you can make sure you get enough sleep, eat a balanced diet, or practice safe sex.

And your obligation to yourself to make healthy choices extends farther than you might think. You have to create for yourself a healthy environment, and it’s one that might stretch beyond your own personal sphere.

For instance, if you are a female and sexually active, it’s important to know that condoms are your business, too. It’s your responsibility to make sure your partner is using it correctly. Condoms protect both of you. Also, if you see a friend getting in a dangerous situation—perhaps they’re drinking excessively or being too sexually aggressive with someone—you’re not doing yourself any favors by pretending it’s not happening.

Healthy minds and bodies flourish in healthy communities—ones that are built on respect.

It’s our, the Health Advisors’, hope that Davidson can continue to keep up an open and honest dialogue about health issues. We can’t build a better Davidson if we all pent-up our frustrations, questions, and curiosities.

It’s important to remember you’re never alone. Chances are there is someone who is just as confused as you are about something or has shared a similar experience. Even if you feel like living at Davidson is like tuning in to the Discovery Channel, remember there are ways to make sense of what goes on around you.

So don’t change the channel just yet. Believe us; your health is worth it.

SUPPORT HURRICANE RELIEF Now!

The Music Department at Davidson College announces a 12-hour marathon concert on Thursday, from noon to midnight, in the Tyler-Tallman recital hall in the Sloan Music Center. Students and community members are encouraged to sign up for a 15-minute time slot, and we invite EVERYONE concerned about this cause to get on stage, whether or not they have a polished work to perform this early in the semester. Suggested donations of $10 will be taken at the door, with proceeds going to the Red Cross. Sign up for performing times with Hoffler at (704) 894-2357; email: kahoffler.

Passion. Grace. Discovery

Norman YMCA

Dynamite reference area churches, we invite you to join us in college. We’re kind of a challenge and nourish your growth as a whole person. Along with other wonderful ways as part of your spiritual growth and exploration, our worship service is designed to be available to those who have always gone to church and also to those who haven’t given up on church but haven’t gone in a while. Visit us this Sunday. www.lakeforest.org