THE DAVIDSONIAN....

from Funding, page 16

No preferential treatment

Not only do scholarship counts separate Davidson from its competitors, but Wildcat teams battle numerous other obstacles, including the academic
rigor of the College and the lack of admissions leniency.

For instance, many Davidson opponents hold slots in admissions for certain athletes. Davidson holds no such slots.

“Wake Forest has slots. Duke has slots. We don’t have slots,” said Spear. “We want the integrity of the student-athlete
to continue.”

And while it may be hard to entice the blue-chip high school athlete to choose Davidson, especially if he or
she cannot clear admission standards, the student-athletes this school attracts fit it better anyway.

“We don’t conceal who we are. We let [the athletes] know up front what we are about,” said men’s basketball
coach Bob McKillop. “We don’t just recruit talent. We recruit fit—fit for the school. Fit for the team.”

Thus, the success of the teams shouldn’t be solely characterized by the wins and losses in a given season.

“We can’t just look at wins and losses,” said Athletics Director Jim Murphy. “The athletic department helps the college meet
its objective, and that is to build great leaders.”

Graduation rates

Once the student-athletes get to campus, Davidson is then one of the best at making sure they leave with a
degree.

According to the latest NCAA records, Davidson graduates 91 percent of the scholarship athletes within six years, while the NCAA
average is 62 percent.

How do our main opponents compare? UNC Charlotte, a very comparable athletic program, graduates a mere 68 percent of its
scholarship athletes, and UNC Greensboro graduates just 67 percent. Furman, perhaps the second strongest school academically in our conference, likewise
graduates just 81 percent.

SPORTS

Athletics extension of College

Because of these factors, athletic success will always be difficult for Davidson. Still, the overall integrity and mission of this
institution carry over into the athletic department.

“The integrity and mission of the college go hand in hand,” said McKillop. “Professors reinforce the same sense of responsibility
and accountability in the classroom that coaches expect on the playing field.”

“It’s a credit to the coaches, the players, and the college. The typical Davidson student tends to perform over their
head,” said Murphy. “If you get that mentality, with good coaching and motivation, you’ll tend to be successful with limited
resources.”

And some teams, most notably soccer, basketball, and women’s tennis, do compete on a conference and even national level. Unfortunately,
most Davidson teams cannot make the same claim.

Room to improve

“I want more of a winning atmosphere in all programs,” Spear said. “Recruiting, fundraising, teaching better. We want to win.
The athletes need to want to win. There needs to be more pride in winning.”

“Most programs spend more money every year than funding provides,” Spear continued. “We have to raise our own funding.”

The biggest issue that Davidson faces, though, is the tenuous line between maintaining academic integrity while doing all it can
to be competitive in the Southern Conference and beyond.

It would be great to see what Greg Ashton, Annette Watts, and Dick Cooke, just to name a few, could
do with funding comparable to even rival institutions.

Unfortunately, Davidson prohibits all of its programs from receiving maximum funding, and almost every team is far below the maximum.

“In scholarships, Davidson is continuing to grow,” Murphy said. “The DSP has made a tremendous impact, but we have to
increase our scholarship levels to stay competitive.”

CALLING MUSICIANS, POETS, AND ARTISTS!

WE'RE LOOKING FOR ARTISANS TO PERFORM AND DISPLAY THEIR WORK AT OUR NEW CORNELIUS LOCATION.

MUSICIANS and POETS: bring by a demo or examples of your work

ARTISTS: Pick up a display application to have your work displayed on a rotating basis.

BEN & JERRY’S / PORT CITY JAVA

19930 WEST CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS Near McAlister’s Deli - Exit 28, OFF I-77

704-896-1900

WWW.BENJERRY.COM/LAKENORMAN AND WWW.PORTCITYJAVA.COM

WE OPEN: MON-FRI 6AM, WEEKENDS 7AM

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2005

13

Lake Norman’s Finest Italian

All Students, Faculty, and Staff receive 20% off with CatCard!

Free Delivery!

10005 W. CATAWBA AVE (EXIT 28) 704-987-0479

VISIT WWW.ILGIARDINO.US
