2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS - WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2005

Value of laundry thefts reaches thousands of dollars

By BEN WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

Over the past six months, twelve bundles of clothes have been stolen from the Lula Bell Laundry Service. With no
suspects, the thefts raise questions about the ability of the laundry’s honor system to prevent larceny.

“It’s still a small amount of clothes, but it’s big enough that it shouldn’t happen,” said Laundry Manager Aaron Jackson.

Jackson estimates the value of the stolen clothes to be “in the thousands.”

“It’s still a small amount of clothes, but it’s big enough that it shouldn’t happen.”
--Aaron Jackson, Laundry Manager

The stolen bags have contained both male and female clothes, suggesting that the bags are being picked at random. Occasionally,
some of the less-expensive clothes will turn up in the small laundry rooms located in dorms and apartment complexes around
campus. Campus authorities speculate that the thief knows that RLO will donate any unattended clothes after two weeks. More expensive
items, however, are rarely recovered.

The nature of the thefts has led laundry management to suspect that a student is responsible; however, the possibility that
a non-student has stolen the clothes has not been eliminated.

“I can’t say for sure if it’s a student or a non-student that has stolen the clothes,” said Jackson. “But
if it weren’t a student, the thief would have to take a double risk by going back in the dorms
to dump the less expensive clothes.” Jackson pointed out that the person would need CatCard access to gain entry into
one of the smaller laundry rooms.

Jackson believes the thefts to be the first time clothes have been purposefully stolen from the laundry service. The current
laundry system allows anyone to pick up laundry bags. Each patron is honor-bound to pick up his or her own
bag. The laundry service has contacted Police Chief Fountain Walker and is attempting to fight the crimes without a break
in the structure of the laundry service. Jackson says going to the SGA, raising awareness, and making the crimes public
are the first steps in attempting to thwart the crimes.

Jackson, however, is hesitant to endorse a change in the current laundry pick-up system. “If we went to an ID
system, the line would be around the corner,” said Jackson.

Briefly

Joanna K. Krueger of the University of North Carolina at Charlotte will speak on “Small-angle Scattering: Solutions in Protein Structural
Analysis” on March 18 at 2:30 p.m. in Room G-10 of the Martin Chemical Laboratory. Chemistry Colloquium

RSC Panel Discussion

The RSC Residency and Davidson College will present “First Steps in Professional Theatre: Reflection and Discussion on theatre as a
career with RSC actors and Davidson College Theatre Alumni” on March 18 from 3:30-5 p.m. in Room 145 of the
Cunningham Fine Arts Building.

RSC Panel Discussion

The RSC Residency will present a panel discussion on “Cross Dressing and Gender Issues in Shakespeare” with RSC actresses in
conjunction with Davidson faculty Mary Thornberry, Ann Fox, Ruth Ault, Vivien Dietz on March 18 at 3:30 p.m. in Tyler-Tallman
Hall of Sloan Music Center.

RSC Panel Discussion

The RSC Residency will present a Pre-Performance Discussion with Julius Caesar cast members on March 19 from 11:45 a.m. to
12:30 p.m. in the Semans Lecture Hall of the Visual Arts Center.

Luna Nova Ensemble

He admits, however, “the current system makes it hard to stop a [thief].”

Students show mixed reactions to the thefts along with making changes to the current laundry pick-up system.

“I’m going to continue to use the laundry service,” said Daniel Van Oudenaren ’08. “I haven’t had any problems.”

“If people just respect the Honor Code, then we won’t have to change anything,” he added.

“A switch wouldn’t bother me per se,” said Mallory Nobles ’07, “but I think it’s a little unnecessary. I think
most people can be trusted.”

Elissa Colley ’08 is more receptive to doing away with the laundry service’s Honor Code system. “If the Honor Code
isn’t working, then they should probably change something,” she said.The Honor Code has a successful history at the laundry service
in recent years. The service has lost an average of only $490 worth of clothes per year. “Four hundred and
ninety dollars is phenomenally low for a laundry service of our size,” said Jackson.

Luna Nova, a group of seven musicians devoted to contemporary music, will perform a new work, “Crossing Rivers IV,” composed
for the ensemble by Associate Professor of Music Jennifer Stasack, written by Associate Professor of English Alan Michael Parker, and
featuring Artist Associate Diane Thornton as guest contralto. The performance will be on March 21 at 8 p.m. in Tyler-Tallman
Hall of Sloan Music Center.

David Galef Presentation: Novel and Story
David Galef will award student literary prizes and read from his work in the 900 Room of the Union.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

2/26 Alcohol Violation Irwin Dormitory
A student was found passed out in a hallway by an officer. The officer attempted to awaken him and when
he was unable to do so, called for an ambulance. The student began to wake up, although only to inform
medics that he had been drinking. The student was transported to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center and was cared for
there.

2/27 Cross Country Trail Suspicious Person
A runner observed a male who appeared to be hiding behind abandoned buildings at the one-mile mark of the cross
country trail. The man asked the runner how to get out, and the runner attempted to explain while continuing to
run. The runner could hear the man begin to run toward him from behind but was unable to see him.

2/28 Martin Court Disturbance
An officer arrived at F Apartments on a report that students were throwing bicycles off of a third-floor balcony. The
residents of the apartment were unaware that any of their guests had been throwing bicycles. They agreed to keep their
guests inside the house. The officer noted that the bicycles lying in the courtyard were a campus bike with a
busted rim and another bike with a busted tire.

3/6 Chambers Building Alcohol Violation
Officers learned of a student passed out on the second floor of Chambers, and arrived to find him being tended
to by another student. The student who had passed out told officers that he had taken 12 shots in one
and a half hours. The student was taken to the hospital for treatment.

3/7 Sentelle Dormitory Search for Student
A Mecklenburg doctor contacted the Davidson Police, advising them that one of their students had been bitten by a monkey
and was in need of a rabies shot. The doctor asked for the police’s assistance in finding the student. Police
were unable to locate her immediately but said they would continue to look for her until she contacted the doctor.

3/8 Martin Court Larceny
A student contacted police and reported the robbery of a bottle of Tanqueray Gin that had been sitting on the
counter of his apartment. Estimated value of the gin is $20.

3/8 Alvarez Student Union Disorderly Conduct
A student threw a chair against the brick wall next to the third-floor entrance of the Student Union. The student
was disrespectful to Union employees, flicking them off and making rude comments, but fled when he found out that the
police were being called.

3/11 Patterson Court Larceny
Three female students reported that their wallets had been taken from their purses while they were attending a party at
Connor. $70 were taken, along with credit/debit cards and the keys for Warner Eating House.

3/12 Guest House Possible Larceny
A guest reported that she had left one of the Davidson Red bikes outside of the guest house and had
returned to find it gone. She reported the incident to the police, who informed her how the bike system at
Davidson worked.

3/13 Steam Plant Larceny
An officer observed two males who seemed to be loading bikes into a car parked at the steam plant. The
officer requested backup, and when the backup arrived, the officers confronted the men, who admitted to stealing the bikes.
