4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

More students use their meal plans on weekends at Commons since its renovation.
News photo by Emma Garren

Commons sees higher usage since renovations
By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

This summer’s renovations to Vail Commons have increased student and faculty usage of the dining hall. Although the $1.6 million
renovations have not yet resulted in a significant increase in the total sale of student meal plans, more students now
eat at Commons on weekends, and the missed meal factor has decreased.

Although Commons has traditionally not been a popular weekend dining option, it has been serving between 200 and 300 people
during Friday and Saturday dinner hours. Meal plan use during lunch on these days has also increased. Additionally, the decrease
in the missed meal factor, which refers to the number of meals on their meal plans students do not use
each week, shows students are more fully taking advantage of their meal plans.

“The renovations to Commons do make me want to eat there rather than at the Union,” said Karina Nascimento ’08.
“Sometimes I feel like the Union doesn’t have very much variety. I’m always eating the same things there, but Commons
has more options.”

Even though the total number of meal plans purchased has increased only slightly, students are buying larger meal plans. A
new five meal, no Bonus Bucks option was popular this semester. Dining Services sold 40 of these plans.

According to Dee Phillips, Director of Dining Services, the biggest overall change in attendance at Vail has occurred amongst the
faculty and staff. More departments are holding meetings in Vail, and many professors meet students over lunch. Phillips attributes the
increase in Commons’ popularity to the increased variety of options, including at least one vegetarian entree in every line, and
to the increased efficiency of the multiple serving lines.

“We might swipe 300 people in 15-20 minutes during our busiest periods, but it never feels like there are 300
people being served,” Phillips said. “The lines are shorter. In the old [Commons], the wait in the lines always felt
like it took forever, regardless of the amount of time actually spent in line.”

Upgrades to the food preparation technology in each of the serving lines have greatly contributed to the efficiency of Commons.
The Turbo-Chef oven in the pizza line, for example, cooks the pizzas much more quickly than the old machine did.
Additionally, more highly-skilled chefs have been hired for the grill and sauté lines.

The increased aesthetic appeal of Commons also contributes to its popularity. Commons has not yet yielded an increase in profits,
however. Although production has increased, the higher level of skill employed, coupled with the increase in the amount of food
being served, has balanced the slight increase in meal plan sales. Commons continues to cover its operating expenses, as it
has in past years. Currently, the staff is anticipating the changes in meal plan sales that next semester may bring.

“Let’s save our final evaluation of the renovations until next semester, after everyone has had a chance to see what’s
happening in Vail,” Phillips said.

This summer’s renovations only encompassed the first phase of the changes planned for Commons. Upcoming improvements will include renovations to
the main kitchen, the addition of private dining areas, and the purchase of new tables and chairs.

CCRL, from page 1
Patterson Court. “Since the Alphas came to campus, I no longer see 36 white faces at Patterson Court meetings,” Hamm
said. “This adds a completely different perspective to the discussion, which is important.”

Assistant Dean of Students Ernest Jeffries, a guest at the CCRL meeting, also emphasized the degree to which black Greek
organizations encourage the social participation of minority students. “I am an Alpha, and I have beenHere is the cleaned OCR
text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"An active member for more than 15 years,” Jeffries said. “This type of organization promotes involvement; it requires a great
commitment.” The women highlighted the importance of making women of all ethnicities feel welcome in a sorority at Davidson. “We
want this organization to be open to everyone,” organizer Cherita Jeffreys ’08 said. The women also explained that the organization
would also provide a place for women with underrepresented ideological perspectives to gather. “Once minority women feel like they have
a place to become involved in court life,” White said, “they will be able to interact with women from the
eating houses. Everyone will then come to see that there is ideological diversity as well as ethnic diversity at Davidson.”

“Once minority women feel like they have a place to become involved in court life, they will be able to
interact with women from the eating houses. Everyone will then come to see that there is ideological diversity as well
as ethnic diversity at Davidson.” --Whitney White ‘08

Moore agreed that minority women need to feel like they belong on the Court. “We seek to give minority women
a more developed, organized experience,” she said. “They need an organization where they feel comfortable and develop a greater social
interaction and possibly even join an eating house on Patterson Court.”

The CCRL vote follows a vote by the Patterson Court Council in support of the sorority. President Vagt will now
decide whether a historically black sorority should be allowed to come to campus.

Hinds Feet goes long-term
By SARAH BALEY
Staff Writer

Hinds Feet Farm, a non-profit organization located in Huntersville, will open in 2007 as a long-term family care residence for
survivors of traumatic brain injury. “By the time we’re fully operational, we’ll have three programs out here up and running,”
founder and executive director Martin Foil ’85 said. “The first is the residential program... for up to six individuals. Then
there will be a day care program for up to 10 [individuals], four or five days a week. Then there
will be a club house program,” in which other groups can use the facility for meetings.

“[The program] is not about how much money the patients make... The point is that it’s something they grow themselves.
Whatever they earn is their personal money. This teaches them to be self-sufficient, to become part of society in general.”
--Amanda McQueen ‘06

Many Davidson students, as well as organizations such as Davidson Outdoors and Rusk Eating House, volunteer at Hinds Feet Farm.
CoHo also sponsored the Mount Everest Climbing Challenge in October to raise money for the organization. “[Hinds Feet Farm is]
trying to do something that not a lot of other places do,” volunteer Amanda McQueen ’06 said. “Marty has all
these huge plans. There will be animal husbandry, three horses and some cats. Eventually, they’re trying horticulture to [let the
patients] grow their own produce. It’s not about how much money the patients make... The point is that it’s something
they grow themselves... Whatever they earn is their personal money. This teaches them to be self-sufficient, to become a part
of society in general. [At Hinds Feet Farm], they won’t just stay in their little hole.”

Assistant Dean for Community Service Stacey Riemer encouraged McQueen to become involved in Hinds Feet Farm. “I’m doing the film
and media studies concentration so I was really interested in doing something media related,” McQueen said. “[Riemer] said that I
could do some kind of PR for Hinds Feet Farm.” Now, however, McQueen’s responsibilities have expanded to include administrative activities.
“I’m seeing all the stuff that [Marty] has to deal with,” McQueen said. “Doing data entry.”

See Hinds Feet, page 5

Please call us with questions or to schedule a visit!

NEW LISTING!
* 3 Bedrooms, 2 1/2 Baths
* Private porch and garage
1,677 Square Feet!
