The Davidsonian
“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”
FIRST CLASS | U.S. POSTAGE PAID | PERMIT #1 Davidson, NC

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2005
VOLUME 97, NUMBER 9

Student pulls Knife at Warner
By MICHAEL TELLIS
Staff Writer

Police shut down Warner Hall’s Halloween party last Saturday night because of fighting that resulted in a student brandishing a
knife. This has been the first time in recent history that weekend revelry has been halted by disruptive behavior.

“An anonymous complainant advised the officer working the Warner event of a conversation he had just overheard. Apparently, two male
subjects at the event were at odds with each other. At some point, one of them stated he would cut
the other and then pulled out what appeared to be a folded switchblade,” Director of Public Safety and Chief of
Police Fountain Walker said.

“The complainant immediately informed the officer, who in turn approached the individual reported to have the weapon and escorted him
outside. The subject was cooperative with the officer and admitted to having a switchblade,” Walker said.

According to Walker, there was another incident of fighting at the party that occurred between three different individuals. “This altercation
also involved members of our community as well and involved a lack of good old interpersonal communication skills and problem-solving
techniques,” Walker said.

Though the police maintained that the individuals involved did not show any outward signs of being inebriated, President of Warner
Hall Alice Neumann ’06 disagreed. According to Neumann, the individuals involved in the fights were intoxicated upon entering the party.
They immediately began roughhousing and pushing people.

See Knife, page 4

Student reflections on Ramadan see A&L, PAGE 7

SOCON CHAMPS
The women’s cross country team won the SoCon Championship for the second time in three years Saturday. See story, page
13.

Students robbed in satellite parking lot
By LEXI HAMILTON
Senior Staff Writer

Four males robbed three Davidson College seniors in the satellite parking lot behind Jamieson apartments at about 2 a.m. on
Friday, October 22. During their drive back to Davidson from Wendy’s, the three students, along with a visiting brother, noticed
a dark, medium-sized vehicle following them.

“I noticed that they were following us by the light between the VAC and the admissions building,” one of the
seniors said. After turning left on Griffith Street, the four black men, who were in their mid-20s, continued to follow
the students down Ridge Road. When the students pulled into a parking space in senior satellite parking, the perpetrators pulled
into the parking space directly opposite them.

“We had a chance to drive off,” one of the seniors said, “but we didn’t, because I said, ‘Don’t worry
guys, they look cool.’ To tell you the truth, we deserved to get robbed for being that dumb.”

As the students got out of their car, it became clear that the men in the other vehicle were not
Davidson College students. “At this point, only one of the men got out of the vehicle, and he stuck his
hand in his shirt, shouting that he had a weapon,” Director of Public Safety and Chief of Police Fountain Walker
said. The students never actually saw the weapon. Each student produced his wallet when the assailant commanded them to do
so, but only one student had money on him.

“There were four of us,” one of the seniors said, “but only I was mugged. He got between $3 and
$13.”In hand, the criminal turned around to re-enter the vehicle and join his three accomplices only to find that they
had already begun to drive down Ridge Road. “The perpetrator with the money chased the vehicle. The other three finally
stopped, and he jumped inside the car,” Walker said. Campus Police responded to the mugging in less than five minutes.
According to Walker, students need to be more aware of their surroundings. “The demographics of this area are changing. The
Davidson community is often targeted for crimes because of its reputation for trustworthiness and affluence. If you see something that
doesn’t look right, call the police, ask for an escort, and remember as many details about the situation as you
can.” Walker also stressed the importance of remembering details while a crime is in process. Providing an accurate description of
an individual, vehicle, or remembering a

See Robbery, page 4

Patterson Court houses serve community

Town makes plans for transit rail to Charlotte

By KATIE PFEIFFER
Senior Staff Writer

Plans to construct a transit rail system running from Davidson to Charlotte are in final approval stages. The transit rail
should be finished in 2009 or 2010. Kris Krider, Planning Director for the Town of Davidson, described the transit system
plan as a product of a growing need to economically and culturally expand the town while maintaining its aesthetic qualities.
“We have an opportunity to attract what Davidson lacks,” Krider said. “[Today in Davidson] there’s a more active crowd that
demands a more active, urban lifestyle. There’s a potential for attracting the young, urban professional.” The North Corridor transit line
will extend from Charlotte to Davidson, and in the future possibly as far as Mooresville. The station stop in Davidson
will likely be located behind the ITS building. To let the trains make timely and effective runs, some street crossings
in town must be closed. Plans to close the street crossing in front of the Brickhouse could adversely affect the
commute of the many students who live off campus in the area, including Armour Street, Delburg Street, and the Depot
Apartments. Initial station plans include two stops in Huntersville and one stop in Cornelius and Davidson. The train station in
Charlotte will incorporate other lines as well, including Amtrak, Greyhound, and additional local connections.

See Rail, page 4

Watson Fellowship finalists selected

By MICHAEL TELLIS
Staff Writer

Davidson College recently nominated Adam Martin, Chris Clunie, Christie Kilby, and Lucy Marcil as its Thomas J. Watson Fellowship finalists.
The students will compete against 200 national finalists for the Watson Fellowship, a one-year $25,000 grant for independent study and
travel outside the United States awarded to up to 50 graduating college seniors nominated by their participating institutions. “The Watson
is great because it brings out the applicants' imagination. If you take away the financial constraints, there is no limit
to how much you can dream, and that is exactly what the Watson gives you an opportunity to do,” Dean
of Students Tom Shandley said. The proposals of the finalists this year show great diversity and cover a wide range
of topics. Clunie, a political science major and member of the men’s varsity basketball team, wants to study basketball and
its ability to enact change and influence global poli-

See Watson, page 2

Chris Clunie ’06, Adam Martin ’06, and Lucy Marcil ’06 are three of this year’s four Watson Fellowship finalists.

PAGE 5

Costumes gone horribly wrong

see YOWL, PAGE 8

Bob Stoops as Chief Justice?

see SPORTS, PAGE 12
