2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Alumni, continued from page 1

Presbyterian, are more likely to be ministers, and are more likely to have attended Davidson when there were greater religious requirements than there are today. Despite the large number of negative responses to the decision, both Merrell and Vagt are confident that this decision will not significantly affect long-term alumni relations.

“I’ve heard from some alumni who said ‘take me off your list,’” said Merrell. “But there are always some things that create that reaction, be they the ‘goose incident’ or a particular speaker coming to campus. Yet the immediate impact has been fairly minimal.”

Vagt said that when alumni call voicing concern over the decision, he feels talking to them and explaining the rationale behind the Trustees’ actions usually helps ease concerns. “I always start by telling them that the decision to allow non-Christians on the Board came out of changes to the Statement of Purpose,” Vagt said.

The changes to the Statement of Purpose were designed to strengthen and clarify Davidson’s relationship to the Presbyterian Reformed Tradition.

“We wanted to make it clear that Davidson’s relationship to the Reformed Tradition was not just historical, but that it was ongoing,” said Vagt. Among the specific changes made to the Statement of Purpose were to make the language more active and to change the order of the paragraphs so that the first paragraph stated Davidson’s continuing vital relationship to the Reformed Tradition. The changes also included additional language that would hold the trustees more accountable to the College’s history and purpose by adding the line, “The Trustees commit to being faithful stewards of the traditions of the College.”

Vagt also explains to concerned alumni that the Trustees included a recommendation that the College establish an endowed chair in the Religion Department for a faculty member specializing in the Reformed Tradition. Up until 1998, Professor Sandy McKelway had taught courses in Reformed Theology. After his retirement, however, he was never directly replaced.

“This position was viewed as a special circumstance given the important nature of the [trustees’] action and the fact that this particular expertise had not been replaced,” Vagt said.

Dean of Faculty Clark Ross, who is responsible for overseeing all new faculty appointments, said that this is the first time in his memory that the trustees have specifically recommended the appointment of a new faculty position. Typically, department heads request new professorships when there is both a sustained demand for a particular subject coupled with a particular area of study that a department lacks.

Despite the unusual circumstances surrounding the appointment of a new religion professor in the Reformed Tradition, Ross said that the Trustees’ decision made this appointment important. “The overriding issue here is the notion that this position was so central to the College that attention should be paid to it,” Ross said.

The trustees have taken it upon themselves to raise the $1.5 million necessary to establish the new professorship. After the money has been completely raised, Dean Ross and the Religion Department will begin a search for the best candidate to fill the position.

Vagt said that once he explains that the rationale for the changes came out of the Trustees’ understanding of the Reformed Tradition, and that the adjustments to the Statement of Purpose and the addition of a faculty member specializing in the Reformed Tradition were meant to reemphasize Davidson’s continuing commitment to its Reformed heritage, many alumni will become less concerned.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2005

“After I fully explain the decision it usually assuages concerns,” he said.

Merrell said that one of the most important things for concerned alumni to hear is that the student body supports the Trustees’ decision. “I tell alums that Davidson is still a spiritual place, but despite that most students appear very supportive of the changes,” said Merrell. “After hearing that, most alums feel better about the decision, even if they don’t completely agree with it.”

“I've had some people tell me they had been embarrassed by this rule and that they wouldn't give to Davidson because of this rule... They felt Davidson was losing good...”people on the Board, and now they don’t have that feeling anymore.” --Matt Merrell, Director of Alumni Relations

Despite the large number of negative comments from alumni, there have also been many positive comments. “I’ve had some people tell me they had been embarrassed by this rule and that they wouldn’t give to Davidson because of this rule,” Merrell said. “I also know of two examples of alumni who were invited to be on the Board but had to decline because they didn’t go to church. They felt Davidson was losing good people on the Board, and now they don’t have that feeling anymore.”

Alan Krueger, Bendheim Professor of Economics and Public Affairs and Director of Industrial Relations at Princeton University, will give a talk on “Misunderestimating Terrorism: Economics and the Roots of Terrorism” on March 7 at 8 p.m. in Hance Auditorium in Chambers.

Break Thy Leg: From Concept to Curtain Call at the RSC
The Royal Shakespeare Company will display the concept drawings, costumes, three-dimensional models, and props that illustrate the skill, ingenuity, and expertise that go into all of their productions in the William H. Van Every Gallery from March 7 to April 15.

Anthropology Lecture: Katherine Dettwyler from Millersville University speaks about “Beauty and the Breast” on March 8 at 7 p.m. in Hance Auditorium.

Liederabend
Students from the voice studios of Jacquelyn Culscene, Diane Thornton, Jennifer Hough, and Sasi Wl present vocal recitals in Tyler-Tallman Hall of the Sloan Music Center.

Philip Hockberger of Northwestern University will give a talk on “Video Microscopy” on March 9 at 4 p.m. in Room 146 of the Dana Science Building.

CORRECTIONS
The article “Artists Series funding quest” (News, Feb. 16, page 2) contained two errors: One published sentence read: “The ATC is composed of students who, along with faculty members, are responsible for picking the acts that come to Davidson.” This should have read, “A Union Board committee composed of students, faculty, staff, and community members select the acts that come to Davidson, and requests funding for them from the ATC.” The article also stated, “In the past, student participation estimates have fluctuated between 100 to 200 students.” While those numbers are typical and convey the point that student turnout is lower than from other sources, the phrasing might lead a reader to believe that they are without exception. In fact, one performance last year saw nearly 400 students. The Davidsonian regrets the errors.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER
2/13 Patterson Court Larceny
Student left her purse at a KA fraternity party, and returned to its original location a few hours later to find it gone. Estimated value of the purse and its contents is $500.

2/17 Alvarez Student Union Assault
Student’s older brother started a fight with another student, eventually grabbing the student by the neck and slamming him into the wall. Damage to the wall is estimated at $150.

2/18 Griffith Street State Citation
Student was stopped by officers due to erratic driving. The student was issued a state citation for provisional driver’s license offense involving alcohol.

2/19 Martin Court Large Gathering
Officers were called to F apartment due to the large number of people gathered outside. Upon arrival, officer observed 50 to 100 people in the courtyard, with three tables set up for drinking games. Officer was informed that after a party at Jamison had been shut down, students had migrated to F. Officer shut down the party without incident.

2/20 Patterson Court Noise Violation
While walking past PiKA house, an officer noted loud music and entered the house. Inside were around 10 or 15 people, most drinking beer. Two were current PiKA members, the rest were former members of PiKA. Officer noticed cases of beer sitting out in the open, and the alumni took responsibility for the beer and the music. The officers left the house and took the beer with them.

2/20 Ryburn Apartment Intoxication
Officer saw a student who appeared to be sleeping on the grass outside of Ryburn. The student smelled of alcohol. Officer asked the student for his name, and after two minutes he became coherent enough to cooperate with the officer, who walked him home.

2/21 Fire Alarm Alvarez College Union
Fire alarm was activated around 11 a.m. at the Union. Alarm had been in test mode, which causes the alarm to go off and calls the fire department.