VIN

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
January 19, 2005

Denver Harbor introduces us to its “Scenic” route

By Bossy DeMuro
Staff Writer

The punk rock band Denver Harbor released its inaugural CD, “Scenic,” in October of 2004, then promptly went on tour around the country to promote it.

This hard-hitting, upbeat punk album introduces Denver Harbor to the nation. Named after a neighborhood and feared street gang in Houston, Texas’ East End, the band was started by Will Salazar, the former head man of Fenix*TX.

Salazar, who grew up in this working-class, Mexican-American neighborhood, quickly went to work on recruiting bandmates. After bringing guitarist Chris Lewis (also formerly of Fenix*TX) with him, Salazar went to San Diego to find brothers Ilan (drums) and Aaron (bass) Rubin to complete the band.

The band placed high importance on a rhythm section, and luckily they found a great drummer. At 12, Ilan was named by “Modern Drummer” as the “Best Undiscovered Drummer Under 18,” and at 15 had a full page devoted to his skills in “Alternative Press.” In 1999, he became the youngest person to ever play in the Woodstock Festival.

Denver Harbor’s inaugural CD is somewhat of a throwback to Fenix*TX’s hardest-hitting moments. It also reminds listeners of the refined post-punk sound of The Cure, as well as the dynamic rock of Nirvana.

Salazar himself is atypical from the “normal” punk frontman of today. His voice does not whine with angst, nor does he seem vulnerable to a fault. His vocals fit very well within the band’s tight rhythms, and his vocal range is fairly good.

At times, he flattens out, but when he is backed by heavy guitar play, his voice comes alive.

With Ilan Rubin’s rhythm-dominating percussion, the band’s refined sound distinguishes it from much of the punk rock of today. At the beginning of the first track, “Xenophobia,” Ilan introduces listeners to the band with a distinctive sequence of percussion.

Following up on track two is “Picture Perfect Wannabe,” a vicious song that lashes out against the pop music of today, especially singers who do not write their own songs. This track was the first single the band released off its album, gaining attention over the internet and on the radio.

The CD also includes fan favorites “Outta My Head,” “The Ride,” and “Way Back Home,” as well as the power ballad “All I Want,” and the punk sound of “My Holiday (Save Me).”

“The Ride” reminds me of the tough reggae-punk of bands like the Police and other earlier punk acts. The guitar and drum play in “Way Back Home” is reminiscent of mid-90s acts like Tonic.

After beginning a tour with the band Unwritten Law, Denver Harbor played shows across the country in October and November; however, Unwritten Law canceled the tour due to personal problems in December. Denver Harbor has yet to announce the booking of another tour.

This is a strong inaugural effort from the band, which has received internet interest for several months after releasing several singles on www.purevolume.com.

In the past, the band landed gigs alongside Sugarcult, Flogging Molly, Dashboard Confessional, Story of the Year, the Used, and Bad Religion, some of rock and punk’s top acts today.

The CD comes as a reflection of the diverse influences the band members have, but also serves as a notice of where the band is going in the future.

Their refined sound, difficult to define as punk, is a throwback to hard rock acts of the 80s and 90s, thus bringing up the aforementioned comparisons to Nirvana, the Police, the Cure, and others.

Whatever will follow, Denver Harbor lands on the scene with quite an introduction. Salazar and his fellow bandmates give notice to punk and rock fans alike. With flowing guitar rhythms, as well as a fantastic drummer, Denver Harbor is sure to land bigger gigs in the near future.

Denver Harbor
“Scenic”
Universal Records