THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2005

Career Services, in an effort to offer a broader, more diverse range of career opportunities to Davidson students, has decided to expand its offerings to cover new “gangster” career paths. This decision has come off research by the department, which shows that Davidson students are increasingly unprepared entering the workforce in gangster-related careers. Their research also shows tremendous economic growth and opportunity from those in gangster-related careers including rapping, pimping, drug trafficking, and kidnapping.

Programs related to these career paths have already begun this semester. During Career Orientation Week, Career Services passed out pamphlets entitled, “Guns, girls, and grills: The 3 G’s of Rapping.” Next week there is a seminar scheduled in which guest speaker Dr. Tricka J will lecture on the fine points of drive-by shootings and defending your turf. For the month of October, a series of workshops entitled “Represent Your Coast” will be offered featuring help with your four-finger ring, bandana, and piece selections.

Josh Bryson and Tim O'Brian ’06 prepare for the Dr. Tricka J seminar which will be held this Friday in the 900 Room.

Movies on Belk Lawn: Thursday at 7 p.m. Don't forget your blanket!

Starts FRIDAY

1615 ELIZABETH AVE.

“One small step for man, but one giant orgy for mankind.”
— Penthouse

Starts FRIDAY

“FLESH GORDON is a frisky, feisty takeoff; it’s all camp! It’s fun! It’s laughs!”
— Bob Salmaggi, WINS Radio

“FLESH GORDON is the movie of the moment—the one that those in the know are lining up for... Go—just for the hell of it!”
— New York Soho News

Finally, in November there will be a “Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas” demonstration in the 900 Room. The Chaplain’s office is even sponsoring a weekly program on Wednesday nights called “Church for thugs” which will be held in the DCPC sanctuary at 10 p.m.

Jason Edwards ’07 was excited about the new opportunities offered by Career Services, and said he plans to take full advantage of all the events this semester. “I’m planning on going to everything, but I’m especially excited for the workshop about pushing grass at Davidson,” Jason said. “I feel like that could pay off for me in the short run as well as the long run.”

Ken Blackwell ’06 was thankful for the helpful assistance of the Career Services staff. “Thanks to Lisa’s help writing my resume, I’ve already been accepted into the Bloods for next year,” said Kenny. “They've even started selling Blood gear in the Bookstore that you can purchase with your CatCard. Career Services has been so helpful, they cram a lifetime of the streets into a few sessions.”

THE YOWL SUGGESTS THAT YOU...

Skip class

Refill your cup in the Union for free

Place glasses and plates on the conveyor belt at Commons without a tray

Park in the 30-minute Union spots all day

“Borrow” unlocked bicycles

Read the Pink Bunnies publication

Run the Naked 400

Watch movies in Chambers

Eat babies

Editors’ Note: This ad ran in The Davidsonian on November 1, 1974.