12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

For you sports fans...

WILSON’S PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat Game of the Week
Women’s Basketball
Davidson vs. East Tennessee State
Monday, 7:00, Belk Arena

The success of the men’s basketball team in conference play has overshadowed the fact that the women are playing some
outstanding basketball as well. They have won six of their last seven games and are 10-4 in the Southern Conference.
It seems as though every player has settled into a contributing role, and the ’Cats can win in a variety
of ways; they can play up-and-down basketball or slow it down with a more defensive game. Tia Washington ’07 has
been an especially pleasant surprise by excelling at the point guard position.

SPORTS

The NFL is the best professional league in America, bar-none. There is extreme parity, each game has significance, and the
product on the field is the best in professional sports. I plan my weekends around Sunday afternoons, when I plant
down on the futon to take in all of the day’s games. But for me, the season might as well
end once the conference championship games come to a close.

I admit that last year, when my Carolina Panthers advanced all the way to Super Bowl XXXVIII, I enjoyed every
minute of it. I watched “NFL Live” and “SportsCenter” analysis each day leading up to the game until I had
memorized every Sean Salisbury word. I read newspapers, magazines, and anything else I could get my hands on, taking in
all the good things the media had to say about my Panthers. After waiting so long for the Panthers to
get any kind of national publicity, those two weeks between the NFC Championship and the Super Bowl were almost better
than the game itself. Fortunately, the game proved worthy of such a build-up, despite a heartbreaking field goal by Adam
Vinatieri.

Now that I am once again an apathetic bystander to the Super Bowl, however, I again see that the game
falls so far short of the World Series, the NBA Finals, or March Madness. Heck, even the BCS is better
than this. In what other sport does the championship game have so little to do with what actually takes place
on the field? For example, despite being one of the best Super Bowl games in the league’s history, the Patriots’
31-28 victory last year will forever be overshadowed by “the boob.” When ESPN.com ranked the top 100 moments of Super
Bowl history, Vinatieri’s game-winning kick was No. 10. Janet Jackson came in eighth. That is emblematic of a game that
has everything to do with entertainment value and almost nothing to do with who actually wins. To many, and in
fact probably most, the Bud Bowl, the Maxim party, the commercials, or the half-time entertainment is far more important than
anything that could ever happen on the field. People go to the Super Bowl not to see a game, but
to be around the glamour of Super Bowl week and perhaps sneak a glance at some B-list celebrity. The fans,
meanwhile, are relegated to their couches or favorite bar to watch the game.

Note: home team in CAPS.

Thursday, Feb. 3
APP. STATE over The Citadel
Appalachian State will be rested for this Thursday’s game against The Citadel after a 30-point pounding of Longwood to start
the week. After Monday night’s loss to Wofford, Citadel coach Paul Davis said, “We looked like a very tired basketball
team tonight.” Look for the Mountaineers to jump to an early lead and never let go against the Bulldogs.
Wilson: App. State; Drew: App. State

CHARLESTON over Western
The College of Charleston has not lost a home conference game all season, while Western Carolina has yet to win
a road conference game all season. I don’t expect anything to change on Thursday night when the Catamounts visit the
Cougars.
Wilson: Charleston; Drew: Charleston

Saturday, Feb. 5
CHATTANOOGA over Elon
Congratulations to Elon for its first conference win of the year. Can the Phoenix get its first winning streak of
the year against Chattanooga on Saturday? Sorry Elon fans, but the answer is no.
Wilson: Chattanooga; Drew: Chattanooga

GEORGIA SOUTHERN over Furman
Something’s got to give in this game, as Furman comes into Statesboro as one of the most proficient three-point shooting
teams in the country. The Paladins convert on nearly 43 percent of their shots from behind the arc, while Georgia
Southern keeps opponents shooting at just a .343 clip from outside. Whichever team wins the battle from outside will come
out on top.
Wilson: GSU; Drew: Furmanbiggest game of the season. The actual game feels like far more of a stuffy corporate production
than anything related to football. But in the end, while the media circus is a big reason that my enjoyment
of the Super Bowl has again gone to nil, I really dislike the last Sunday of the NFL season because
it is almost inevitably a let-down of Ryan Leaf proportions. With two weeks to kill between the conference championships and
Super Bowl Sunday, every possible match-up is picked apart until I feel like I could personally craft a game-plan for
victory. “Sure, just spread the Eagles four-wide and then hit them up the middle with Corey Dillon. Don’t forget to
keep them honest by going deep, though. You can still attack their secondary if you give Tom Brady time in
the pocket.” Just give me a headset and a sweatshirt and I could be Bill Belichick too. Once that bone
is picked dry, every storyline is hashed and re-hashed ad nauseam until the opening kick-off. Over the past week-and-a-half, I
can’t tell you how many times I have heard the question, “Will T.O. play?” I have heard he’s a distraction,
and an inspiration, and a decoy in the same breath. I have learned that Owens’ doctor won’t let him play,
the Eagles might, and God certainly will. Owens literally said, “The pain is minimal. God has already cleared me. I
have the best doctor of all, and he cleared me.” That doesn’t even mention the storylines about the Patriots’ dynasty,
the Vinatieri aura, Richard Seymour’s potential return and Donovan McNabb’s first Super Bowl, all of which have surfaced over the
past two weeks. In the end, that hype is too much for one game to handle. For every Super Bowl
XXXVIII, there are a handful of Tampa Bay-Oakland match-ups waiting to take its place. The average margin of victory in
Super Bowl history is 14 points, meaning the only drama usually remaining in the fourth quarter is who will be
named MVP. Unfortunately, with Tom Brady behind center again this year, that award probably won’t be in question by the
fourth quarter either. But hey, at least there will still be commercials, and I hear the Lingerie Bowl on Pay-Per-View
is supposed to be pretty solid.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2005

WOFFORD over East Tennessee State
East Tennessee State will be plenty rested for this conference battle after its game last Saturday against Appalachian State was
cancelled. Still, I expect Wofford to build off its last win at The Citadel and defeat the Buccaneers at home.
Wilson: Wofford; Drew: ETSU

Davidson over UNC-G
Elon won its first game last week. Does this mean Davidson will lose its first game this week? Not when
the Wildcats are playing such solid basketball.
Wilson: Davidson; Drew: Davidson

Monday, Feb. 7

Charleston over CHATTANOOGA
Charleston will take its recent home success on the road Monday and come out on top against Chattanooga for the
Cougars’ first conference road victory of the year. Hey, if Elon can win a conference game, I guess anything can
happen.
Wilson: Chattanooga; Drew: Chattanooga

Davidson over WOFFORD
As the conference season progresses, every team will be trying to hand the ’Cats their first conference defeat. Still, Wofford
just doesn’t have the firepower to take down Davidson and its SoCon player of the week, Brendan Winters ’06.
Wilson: Davidson; Drew: Davidson

East Tennessee State over ELON
Someone needs to tell Elon that coming in last place doesn’t guarantee them the number one pick in the draft.
Wilson: ETSU; Drew: ETSU

Furman over THE CITADEL
After watching The Citadel play Davidson, I couldn’t even begin to tell you who their best player was. I even
had a friend fall asleep (more like pass out) in the stands while I watched the game. In the short
time it has taken me to make my pick, I have decided The Citadel has now passed Elon as my
least favorite team in the league.
Wilson: Furman; Drew: Furman

App. State over WESTERN
I have managed to pick five road victories for Monday alone. The Charleston game was a reach, and I have
no clue about this one, but if all of these predictions come true I’ll be living the high life when
I write my article next week.
Wilson: App. State; Drew: Western

Tuesday, Feb. 8

UNC-G over Georgia Southern
I can’t possibly pick six road teams to win in a row, so the madness must stop somewhere. UNC-G will
thump Georgia Southern after losing two SoCon battles in a row.
Wilson: Georgia Southern; Drew: Georgia Southern
