8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Clever acronym idea inspires new student club
SEE PAGE 3

Freshmen boys warned to watch Michael Jackson cover band ‘at own risk’
See Page 5

Proposal denied
See Page 10

Business Services buys out Auxiliary Services
See Page 12

‘Belkiabville’
See Page 14

THE YOWL
Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Editors: Bobby Kenner and Jeff Yeakel
Muses: Nathan Bradshaw, Brent McCormick

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editors at bokenner@davidson.edu or jeyeakel@davidson.edu.

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

UBI ORTA UMBRA UBERTAS
DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

This is the remix
December 7, 2005

In an email addressed to the entire student body, College President Tim Craft chastised students for their abuse of Chambers
classrooms for studying. Students had been reserving rooms for themselves by placing a note outside the doors stating that they
were occupied. This abuse, however, has shown no sign of letting up. Lately, students have reported seeing even more Chambers
rooms with the “occupied” notes outside of them.

“Last week, I was trying to find a quiet place to take a test,” said Lisa Edwards ’08, “but every
classroom in Chambers had one of those ‘occupied’ papers in front of it. I finally found a good place to
take the test, down at CoHo.”

Some students argue that the use of “occupied” notes is not an abuse of the Chambers classrooms. Derek Young ’07
argues that Chambers classrooms are one of the few places on campus where a student can study in isolation.

“There are so many people who are always studying on this campus that it’s impossible to find an unoccupied place
for those of us who need to be by ourselves when we study,” he said.

There is evidence, however, that many of the students are using the Chambers classrooms for much more than studying. Pat
Wright ’06 thinks some students might even be moving permanently into the classrooms.

“I was looking around the third floor for a place to study last Saturday,” he said, “when I noticed one
of the rooms had an ‘occupied’ sign on the ground that was dated 11/30-12/15. The student had even put out
a welcome mat that said ‘Home Sweet Home.’”

Jenny Noble ’09 reported a related experience last Monday when she entered a classroom for her Latin American Politics class.

“I was walking in at 8:30 for my class,” she said, “when I noticed there was a lofted bed in
the middle of the classroom and some guy was sleeping in it. The professor had to whisper the entire lecture
so he wouldn’t wake the sleeping kid, but the kid snored really loud so I couldn’t hear most of it.
I also kept getting distracted by the posters of Bob Marley and John Belushi he had put up. I suppose
that’s what the professor gets for having class during finals week.”the optional period, though.” Liz Crawford ’07 also noticed some
rooms were being occupied for long-term periods. “Yesterday I was strolling through the second floor of Chambers when I noticed
that one of the doors had one of those whiteboards mounted on it,” she said. “Someone had even left a
note on it that said ‘Melissa, stopped by around 3:30 to see if I could get my boxers I left
in there last night, please return them, they’re my only pair. —Jim.’” Students moving into Chambers seem to be using
the classrooms for more than just studying. Terry Brooks ’08 said he discovered students had moved into Chambers 2064 and
were playing video games. “I walked by the room and heard some yelling and cheering,” he said. “I peeked inside
and saw that some guys had hooked up an Xbox 360 to the projector and were playing Madden ’06. Luckily,
they had an extra controller, so I decided to move in too.” Another classroom was entered by a member of
the custodial staff and found to have a wide variety of holiday decorations. The students had brought in a fake
Christmas tree, which was fully decorated with presents under it. In one corner of the room, they had even constructed
a working fireplace and hung stockings above it. Freshly-baked cookies were also reported to have been found, but later went
missing. In defense of the recent wave of long-term student occupation, Will Case ’06 offered this explanation: “During exam period
it feels like we live in Chambers, the Belk Lab, and the library. Is it so terrible if we try
to make at least one place feel a little more like home?”

From The Yowl inbox: Ban Christmas at Davidson
Ebenezer Weinstein ’73
Board of Trustees

When I was a student at Davidson, there was always one part of the year that really got on my
nerves: the time right before winter break. No, not because of all the papers I had due or the exams
I had to take (Actually, I love exams, the more the better, there is nothing more exhilarating than staying up
all late on a Friday or Saturday night alone in the library). I hated this time of year because of
Christmas at Davidson. This wretched “celebration” is a sterling example of this college’s past that needs to be purged. Traditions
such as these, based upon the college’s Christian heritage, are a taint on our otherwise fine academic reputation. They are
by no means tolerant of other religious traditions, but instead force the entire community to participate in their idea of
“happy holidays.” It is repulsive traditions and values such as these that we, the new non-Christian members of the Board
of Trustees, will continue to oppose and attempt to stifle.

SPREE ll DECEMBER 7, 2005 ——< mca ieee tee ote The Davidsonian A SEMESTER In Review A number of important
issues have come into the limelight over this past semester. Here are some photos of activist students protesting for their
respective causes: Raise Masco+ | Wages Because Wildcats need Pods too \ 5 a Dima NSIONS INCRI ASI DOORWAY
