THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2005

Students ‘unusually generous’ in philanthropic efforts

By SARAH BALEY
Staff Writer

The widespread response to Hurricane Katrina within the past few weeks has highlighted philanthropic efforts on campus. Student groups have raised thousands of dollars for the Red Cross and The Salvation Army and continue to look for ways to help.

“Students are unusually generous [here],” Director of the College Union and of Student Activities William Brown said. “They respond to critical issues of life in the world. They respond to individual needs in ways that we sometimes know about and in ways that we aren’t really aware of.”

Since its founding in 1837, Davidson College has committed itself to helping students gain a better understanding of what it means to be active and aware world citizens. As a result, philanthropic efforts on campus are prevalent.

According to Community Service Dean Kevin Buechler, there is a difference between philanthropy and community service.

“There’s a lot of crossover, but some of the distinctions are that the key to community service is that you are addressing a definite need, a community-identified need ... and working with [the community],” Buechler said. “In some ways, philanthropy is working outside of the part of the community you may be helping. Fundraising is a perfect example.”

This year, already, students have proposed 12 different philanthropic projects. Last year, they completed 53.

“[Students] respond to critical issues of life in the world. They respond to critical issues of life in the world. They respond to individual needs in ways that we sometimes know about and in ways that we aren't really aware of.” --William Brown, Director of the Union and Student Activities

Student-planned fundraisers have benefited the Domestic Violence and Rape Awareness Center of Scotland County, Habitat for Humanity, the Davidson Housing Coalition, and CROP.

“The largest single financier is the Red and Black Ball that sends donations to AIDS.”

See Giving, page 4

Studying, from page 1

Chemistry and biology majors really depend on these buildings because they need the group space to study or because they need to run an experiment in the middle of the night, and this policy is clearly detrimental to their education and not in line with the overall academic mission of the college,” said biology major Mac Cowell ’06.

Sean Sonni ’06 said, “As the semester gets busy, it becomes necessary to use a computer lab other than the 24-hour Belk Computer facility due to overcrowding. This new policy hits science students hard because we need more specialized equipment and because of the regularity with which we take part in late-night work sessions.”

The students’ views are also supported by some members in the science faculty.

“I don’t understand why advanced students have to stop doing academic work after 1 a.m.,” Biology Professor Malcolm Campbell said. “They seem safer behind two sets of locked doors than wandering around campus.”

“And I find it hard to believe that an occasional student working in a lab, as opposed to his or her room, costs much money in energy expenditures since the buildings are already heated/cooled even when empty. My research students must conduct their research in the specially-equipped labs.”

Non-science students have also been impacted by the loss of Chambers, a popular place to study on campus. Many science majors are concerned about the academic buildings closing at 1 a.m.

“If you need to pull an all-nighter and the 24-hour room in the library is full and you do not have an atmosphere conducive to studying in your room or apartment because of your roommates or other reasons, where can you go?” said Alim Jinnah ’07. “Also, don’t the rooms in Chambers have sensors that switch off lights automatically?”

Ross does not believe closing the buildings will harm students’ studying habits.

“Students have other places to study, I assume,” Ross said. “While I am not naive, I also feel students do better studying in increments rather than staying up all night. Also, at the end of the semester, buildings are open 24 hours.”

Vagt emphasized that allowing science students to study past 1 a.m. would be unfair to other majors.

“This is a piece which affects students, but there are pieces all over this campus that affect others. We’re making choices based on the number of students relative to other priorities. Closing the buildings from one to six and opening them two weeks before exams is not bad for the students. I long for the day when we will have an endowment that will not force us to make these sacrifices.”

The Student Government Association (SGA) and the faculty committee on finances are looking at ways to resolve this problem. SGA senator Sam Spencer ’07 believes that science majors have a right to request additional access.

“Science majors often can’t study or work during the afternoon because they’re in lab,” Spencer said. “As soon as lab ends, you hit the 6-11 p.m. period in which students have dinner and organizational meetings, and a lot of the assignments science majors get take more than two to three hours, and often you can’t measure how long a certain assignment is going to take.”Spencer favors 24-hour access for the science buildings and Sloan. “I believe the cost would be well within reason to keep the lights and equipment on in five to seven rooms in Dana, Watson, and Martin and a few practice rooms in Sloan,” Spencer said. “The administration may argue on the slippery slope and say that if you open the science buildings you have to open Chambers all night as well, but I don’t think many Davidson students working toward their artus baccalaureate need 24-hour access aside from the Belk Lab.”

---

Vagt addresses student concerns about closing buildings at night

By JILLIAN BARTELS
Staff Writer

The Student Government Association (SGA) discussed academic building hours, the Vamanos Van, and the potential for establishing a historically black sorority at Davidson during last Thursday’s meeting. Science students concerned over the enforcement of a six-year-old policy made up a large contingent at the meeting. They expressed their frustration over a requirement that all academic buildings, including Martin, Watson, and Dana, remain closed to students from 1 a.m. to 6 a.m. every day.

“We had the most incredible student attendance in four years at the building closing discussion,” SGA Vice President Bridget Kane ’06 said. “Francois Trappey [’06] was very proactive in gathering those science majors affected by the policy and bringing the complaint directly to Bobby—he truly served as a student representative.”

The students’ main frustration concerned their lack of access to computer programs located in the science buildings, which are required for assignments and not available elsewhere on campus. President Bobby Vagt was at the meeting to address the students' concerns. He said that he was distressed when he found out the policy was not being enforced and was sympathetic to students who thought it was a new rule being imposed without student opinion.

“One of the things I love and admire about Davidson students is that they have a point of view and don’t mind saying what it is,” Vagt said. “If you present the facts, they don’t necessarily say they’re fine with it, but they say they understand.”

Vagt explained that the buildings couldn’t be kept open 24 hours because heating, cooling, and lighting them is too expensive. In addition, a full-semester study showed that few students used the buildings between those hours and that having them closed five hours a day would save between $300,000 and $400,000 a year. He apologized for the policy but said that at this point it could not be changed. The possibility of adding the software to other buildings’ computers, however, is currently being discussed.

Students interested in bringing a historically black sorority to campus also attended the meeting. The women were not seeking official approval from the SGA, but wanted to present the idea to add to the discussion that is already taking place. Ashley Moore ’07 and four others expressed their concerns about the lack of minority women in eating houses and said that adding a historically black sorority will make Patterson Court a more inviting atmosphere for women of all races. SGA members generally agreed and applauded the young women, wishing them luck.

In addition to discussing student organizations, issues of transportation were also on the agenda this week. Evan Kreutzer ‘08 described the changes to Davidson’s Vamanos Van service to the SGA. The transportation services will be running on Thursday nights and will serve more stops than last year. The service also acquired a new vehicle, which the Vamanos Van committee hopes will be more reliable and safe.

Senator Sam Spencer ’06 proposed another idea to help Davidson students get around: ZipCars. The ZipCar service provides community cars to students, who can reserve these cars for a small fee. Spencer believes this will alleviate problems of parking and help students get around more easily.

“ZipCar has worked on other campuses to provide a cheap, convenient transportation option to students,” Spencer said. “Each ZipCar reduces the number of cars on a campus by seven to 10, and at Davidson it would give students a transportation option more flexible than the motor pool.”

The idea of ZipCars, however, is still in the preliminary stages, and many considerations still need to be made before it can be implemented at Davidson. The senators voted to create a committee for discussing the idea.

The meeting also resulted in the unanimous approval of a new student organization called Changing Minds, a group dedicated to raising mental health awareness on campus by creating dialogue about these problems and reducing the associated stigma.

---

Curiosity + adventure + knowledge

And study abroad means the University Studies Abroad Consortium where you can choose from 25 countries. Come soak up the vibrant culture and be transformed by the experience. We offer personalized attention from start to finish.

- Summer, semester and yearlong programs
- Wide range of academic courses
- Internships
- Language courses at all levels
- Field trips and tours
- Small classes
- University credit
- Scholarships
- Housing

A USAC representative may be coming to campus. Visit usac.unr.edu for exact dates and locations.