THE DAVIDSONIAN

Fall semester is here again, and while students are thinking about new beginnings, the sophomore apartments got some of their own. With the entire school focused on the renovations to Commons and the football stadium, the less publicized changes in Knox, Akers, and Irwin have left a lucky few reaping the benefits of Davidson’s most extensive renovation project.

About 120 of last year’s freshmen left for vacation last May thinking that when they returned, they would be subjected to the nightmarish experience of living next door to Patterson Court in buildings that are both decomposing and uncomfortable. Much to their surprise, however, the down-the-hill gang arrived to a plush new setting.

“I had already made plans with one of my friends who got a single in Duke so that I could sleep up there when I had a test the next day or something,” said Joseph Vitriani ’08. “I never thought that when we got back, he’d want to sleep in my room.”

Bunk beds are lined with golden threads, feather mattresses hang over bronzed futons, and the air conditioning has a new ‘Super High’ setting. The common room has been turned into an exquisite ballroom. Walk down the hall and refresh your palette by stopping off at the aged, perfectly cooled champagne water fountain. Turn the corner and enter the bathroom, with ivory toilet seats and an Olympic-sized bathtub.

Lauren Lammers ’08 wrote to RLO to thank them for making such improvements to the apartments. “First of all,” she wrote, “the room service is fantastic. Vacuuming, fresh sheets, and mints on the pillow every day. I come back from class and I see a sparkling room, not a spot on the walls, my bed perfectly made, and I smell just a touch of lilac. That is not even to mention the kitchen and hot tub for each building. You have truly outdone yourselves.”

RLO employee Michael Griegson explained that the renovations were initially intended to be only exterior. “You know, we had planned to clear out most of the trees and turn that space in the middle of all the buildings into kind of a lawn or courtyard for throwing frisbees. We also planned to clean up the interiors a little, enough so that students would stop asking about Health Codes. But after we got started, well, the project sort of became a passion.”

According to Griegson, the renovation of each building was a work of pride for everyone involved. But he does not want to turn his pet project into a hot topic. “So often, we make a big deal out of every little renovation, every little improvement we make. I figured that this time, we wouldn’t have a big to-do about it but instead quietly make three of our buildings truly nice places to live.”

The air conditioning and heating systems, notorious for breaking down at the hottest or coldest points of the year, have been entirely replaced and may now be set with digital accuracy in each room. The number of bathroom stalls per hall has doubled. For students who want more privacy and quiet at night, the walls have been given an extra layer of soundproofing, so that a neighbor’s music or conversation is all but impossible to hear through a wall. With the addition of new furniture, which should be any day now, in the lounges, the changes will be complete.

“Sophomore slump? I don’t think so. This is a sophomore celebration!” Vitriani said enthusiastically.

Davidson falls in national rankings, still better than Grinnell

The latest U.S. News and World Report rankings of liberal arts colleges place Davidson in a tenth-place tie with Claremont McKenna College in California. The ranking marks a three-place drop for Davidson since last year, when the college was rated seventh. Some people attribute the fall to the resignation of former trustee board members John Belk and Stephen Smith. Administrators, however, were unfazed by the news.

“First of all, you cannot get too wrapped up in something as arbitrary as rankings,” said Assistant Director of Alumni Relations William Scott. “Following the numbers is childish andshort-sighted. The important thing to keep in mind is that we are still ranked higher than Grinnell.” Scott is referring to fifteenth-placed Grinnell College in Iowa, whose lower position has recently become the focus of Davidson’s higher-ups. The administration has just introduced the “Still Better than Grinnell” fundraising campaign, which they hope will make up for some of the lost Belk and Smith money and stir up the student body and alumni. “We think that this campaign will be even bigger than Let Learning Be Cherished, which raised over $250 million,” said Scott. “We want to remind our distinguished alumni that we still cherish learning, and that we cherish it way more than those girly-armed communists at Grinnell.”

“Finally,” said Trustee Blanche Merrier ’81. “I feel like it’s been forever since someone at this college looked around and said, ‘You know what? We're better than Grinnell. Way better.’ Now, to see the college embrace our superiority like this is refreshing.” Merrier is not the only one embracing the anti-Grinnell movement; the Davidson football team is selling ‘Undefeated Against Grinnell’ t-shirts. Warner House is selling $2 ‘Grinnell Sucks’ red wristbands for charity. “They’re so cute,” said Warner member Caitlyn Bleacher ’08. “They are bright Davidson red so they really show your school spirit. All the profits will go to help people with blind pets.”

Mark Worrell, the President of Grinnell, was shocked to hear about the Davidson campaign slogan. “This whole thing came out of left field, we’ve always been on fairly good terms with Davidson. They are just trying to deflect attention from their own fall in the rankings,” he said. If Worrell’s accusations are true, then this would not be the first time that a liberal arts college has belittled another to downplay its own failings. “It’s called the ‘Taunting Tactic,’” says Raymond Durnbach, Associate Professor of Sociology at Hamilton College. “Liberal arts colleges tend to feel inferior because of their small size and lack of name recognition, so they sometimes attack each other to build themselves up. Haverford did it to Scripps in ’96, and Bryn Mawr hated on Kenyon in ’89. It usually is quite effective. Except when those dirtbags at Pomona tried it and the whole thing backfired on them. It’s probably because their women are so homely.”

Davidson declined to describe their actions as “taunting,” but say that their assault on Grinnell will continue. “Listen, as much as those narcissists at Frownnell would like to make this issue all about them, it’s not. It’s about Davidson, and our assurance to the student body and alumni that we are, and will continue to be, much better than the godless cretins at Grinnell. We’re better academically, athletically, and quite frankly, we’re much snappier dressers,” said Scott. There is little telling what Davidson’s barrage of insults will have on its ranking next year, but if the “Still Better than Grinnell” fundraising effort succeeds, expect the hate to keep on flowing.

According to a recent Yow! poll, taken during the first week of classes, listed below are the Top Five Best Girls in the first-year class. They are listed in order from top to bottom, with number one being The Best and number five being The Fifth Best.

1. Alicia Switzer, Annapolis, MD, Belk 203, HS Cheerleading Captain
2. Jenny Hu, Seattle, WA, Richardson 317, Won Nat'l Kickboxing Tournament
3. Karen Mills, Dayton, OH, Richardson 117, Can Hold Her Breath for 3 Minutes
4. Michelle McKenna, New York, NY, Little 204, Scored 1600 on the SAT
5. Jaime Smith, Des Moines, IA, Watts 412, Has a Good Personality