THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2005 7

‘Family Guy’ DVD offers good times galore

By MIKE WELLMAN
Staff Writer

The new “Family Guy” DVD, Stewie Griffin: The Untold Story, opens with a red carpet reception that sets the scene
for a hilarious adventure of self-discovery for Stewie. Fans of the TV show won’t be disappointed in the movie, as
it plays like a really, really long episode, with three main sections of the film divided between three writers. Vague
pop culture references, celebrity bashings, your favorite fart jokes, and those moments in the show where the pure audacity of
a gag can make your jaw drop all abound and are sure to entertain.

The movie doesn’t get caught up in the idea of it being a film either, as the storyline, while linked
by Stewie’s search for his father following a near-death experience, is loose enough that there are plenty of flashbacks and
diversions. Some favorite jokes from previous episodes are brought back for the movie, but don’t feel recycled as the whole
movie is a celebration of Family Guy and its resurrection. What kind of Stewie movie would it be if there
were no sexy parties?

While Stewie is traveling to San Francisco for his look-alike, the rest of the family doesn’t fall into the background,
but instead concentrates on Peter and Lois teaching Meg and Chris how to date. Meanwhile, Stewie’s trip into the future
reveals that, over time, America’s favorite dysfunctional family can only become wackier and more dysfunctional. As the climax and ending
of the movie are reached, the audience is sure to be on the ground laughing and expecting more, as the
cast enjoys the post-party and gives updates on what they’ve been up to with their recent success. Fans are sure
to feel at home, as the end of the film gathers all of the family and friends together to give
their final one-liners before viewers are stuck waiting until Sunday night for their dose of Family Guy.

DVD aficionados may not be too happy with the extras that the DVD provides, though there are a few treats
worth exploring. Commentary is provided by McFarlane and the cast, and an animatic comparison is offered to show the difference
between the storyboards and the finished product. An uncensored audio track is also offered under the language selections, though the
appeal of hearing the characters swear as opposed to bleeping out those sections didn’t seem to change the movie’s enjoyment
to me. Previews of the next “Family Guy” DVD

READY, SET, SERVE

The gift of a smile

The editors of the Arts and Living section are pleased to introduce a new column: Ready, Set, Serve. This column
is designed to build awareness of and engagement in community service events, programs, and issues.

An incredibly wise and wonderful woman once told me that you must be uncomfortable to learn profoundly. It’s the sort
of advice you hear, and in a small way almost wish you hadn’t because it calls you to embrace experiences
that you might otherwise run from.

Every Monday I make my way to Angeles de Conani, where I spend a few hours feeding lunch to some
of the Dominican Republic’s most severely mentally and physically impaired children. The majority of the children cannot walk or talk,
so they pass the bulk of their days lying in cribs. Some of the children were abandoned by their families;
others come from families where the parents neither had the time nor the resources to adequately care for their children
on a day-to-day basis.

Lunchtime finds everyone quietly busy. The room is full of a gentle humof activity; some of the children are sitting
in front of “Barney y Sus Amigos” while the other children are fed in their cribs. The lunchtime volunteers are
mostly bustling women full of laughter, chattering away as they coax the children to eat. When I was younger I
used to laugh at parents who opened their mouths while they were feeding their children. Years later, I find myself
doing the same thing. I don’t think Angeles de Conani will ever be an easy place for me to go.
This is not to say that I have disliked my time here—it’s actually a highlight of my week—but I am
challenged by each visit. Some of the children have the most heartbreaking smiles I have ever seen. I am amazed
by the ear-to-ear grins that result from the simplest touch—holding a hand or stroking a forehead. There is something so
incredibly pure about their laughter that I often struggle to keep from crying. The staff is absolutely wonderful. I can
only imagine how much there is for me to learn from them. Rarely have I met people who radiate love
as easily as these women do. There is love in their every action; they carry each child as if he
or she is the most precious child in the world. They teach me to see the worth in each individual,
to love unconditionally, to appreciate the gift of a smile. Spending time at Angeles de Conani has exposed me to
a side of the country that I would otherwise never have witnessed. It helps me to understand and appreciate the
depth of the community which surrounds me. And I am learning, slowly and imperfectly, to be comfortable being uncomfortable. Although
the Dominican Republic is full of lush mountains and picturesque beaches, I have no doubt that some of the most
beautiful sights I will see this semester will come from within Angeles de Conani’s walls.

Laura Pepper ’07 is a Bonner Scholar and currently studies in the Dominican Republic.

At the end of the day, “Stewie Griffin: The Untold Story” does well by not changing the formula of the
show for the film, as all the things that make “Family Guy” great are present. You’re bound to laugh, you
probably won't cry, and your jaw will drop a few times, but while the movie may shock viewers with obscenity
and crude humor, its intelligent lampooning and ability to make us laugh at the things we find uncomfortable or taboo
keep us coming back for more. The new ‘Family Guy’ DVD, ‘Stewie Griffin: The Untold Story’, offers viewers another glimpse
into the amusing and bizarre world of the Griffin family.

Quality repair by people who care! Confused about where to have your vehicle repaired? Lake Norman Auto & Tire Center
is your “One Stop Repair Shop.” We value all our customers and guarantee all work for 14 months or 14,000
miles. Call Lake Norman Auto & Tire for a “free” consultation on any problem you may have with your vehicle.
Lake Norman Auto & Tire offers a 10% Labor Discount to ALL DAVIDSON Students, Faculty, and Staff! Additionally, we will
provide shuttle service back to campus. Give us a call at 704-892-6590 or email at service@lakenormanauto.com for consultation or to
make an appointment!

18705 Statesville Rd
Fax 704-892-6596
