THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Katie HUNTER
Senior Staff Writer

This past Wednesday, Davidson’s international students and study abroad returnees dined and discussed their experiences from near and far at
the annual Dean Rusk “Welcome Back” dinner, held behind the Dean Rusk Program Office on Main Street. Feasting on Chinese-style
fare like beef and broccoli and scallion chicken, students shared stories about their semesters, summers, and distant home towns in
places scattered across the globe.

Amanda Kuker ’08 spent her summer in Tours, France, living with a host family and taking French language courses at
the Institute of Touraine. “By living with a host family, you really got to see the lifestyle differences between Americans
and the French,” she said. “The French put a much greater emphasis on family time, especially dinner.”

Omer Hashmi ’07 spent six weeks in England as part of Davidson’s Cambridge Program. A history major, Hashmi relished the
“study” part of his time abroad, saying the greatest part of his experience was “being taught by some of the
greatest professors in the world” at Corpus Christi College. Hashmi took advantage of the sites as well, taking time to
hike nearly a third of Hadrian’s Wall, a structure built by the Romans 2000 years ago that stretches across England
for almost 30 miles. Hashmi and Kuker both benefited from a Dean Rusk grant.

Carving their own routes, many students opted for programs other than Davidson’s to accommodate their study-abroad plans, including Jesse Sharp-Williams
’06, who spent her summer in Jamaica and Belize studying African spirituality under the School for International Training (SIT). “It
was interesting studying something that not many people know or write about,” she said. She spent time among the small
population of Garifuna people in Belize and broadened her cultural experience by trying new things, like “eating cold fish with
the head and eyes still on.” “It was weird eating something with the eyes staring at me, but it was
really good!” she said.

Assimilating oneself into a new place and culture can be challenging, especially for international students coming to study for a
year or more in a foreign country. Maria Jose Mejia ’09, a native Spanish speaker who hails from Ecuador, said
the most difficult part of being at Davidson has been “having classes that are all in English.” She said, however,
that “international student orientation was really helpful, because it made it easier to bond with other people here.”

Though studying abroad can take one to places as different as Chile and China or Canada and the Caribbean, one
common aspect of it is the undeniable impact of international experiences on each student. Jennifer Heath ’06, who spent the
summer of 2004 in Ghana, said, “Seeing students in Africa who have worked for two years to earn enough money
to go to college really makes me appreciate the opportunities I have here.” Heath highly recommends any type of study
abroad experience to Davidson students, “It really makes you come to appreciate and understand other cultures and how other people
live, while at the same time teaching you to appreciate your own home and culture as well.”

For anyone interested in studying abroad, mandatory one-hour group information sessions are held on Monday and Thursday afternoons in WDAV’s
Boswell Community Room.

---

LAKE NORMAN

Quality repair by people who care!

Confused about where to have your vehicle repaired? Lake Norman Auto & Tire is your “One Stop Repair Shop"! We
value all our customers and guarantee all work for 14 months or 14,000 miles. Call Lake Norman Auto & Tire
for a “free” consultation on any problem you may have with your vehicle. Lake Norman Auto & Tire offers a
10% Labor Discount to ALL DAVIDSON Students, Faculty, and Staff! Additionally, we will provide shuttle service back to campus. Give
us a call.Call at 704-892-6590 or email at service@lakenormanauto.com for consultation or to make an appointment!
18705 Statesville Rd
Fax 704-892-6596

Tire Center

The Odyssey: Christian student seeks faith in service
By Conor MOONEY
Special Contributor

Is it obvious that faith and service go together? Faith is a philosophical and spiritual concept. Service, however, is tangible
and evidential work in our lives, something visible and qualitative. So how do the two tie together? I used to
be in the mentality that the two were very distant from one another. I have learned that the two are
nearly inseparable.

Peninsula China Bistro
704-937-2299

1st Anniversary Special Coupon
20% OFF (Take Out & Dine in Only)
Not to be combined with other coupons

I came to Davidson as a Bonner Scholar and a young man curious about this faith issue but not fully
committed to pursuing God. I began my service experience without an absolute belief in a God nor in a savior.
I was serving out of a curiosity to see what would change inside of me as a result of my
service in the community. What I was looking for was, in fact, faith — trust, belief, certainty in something out
there that gave me the desire to serve others. Résumé-building and scholarship were gradually failing in giving me the satisfaction
I desired.

My life started to change as I learned that service, though a positive activity in my life, wasn’t enough to
fulfill me as a college freshman. I came to a point where I saw that my life wasn’t founded in
a relationship with Christ. I therefore began an inspired endeavor to make God’s will mine, and I started to live
for God. From that point on I recognized service not as life credit but as a privilege to serve God.
My reasons for serving came out of my faith that God calls us to be servants. I came to realize
quickly that my service would only be genuine if I put my faith in God, and more specifically, in His
Son. I accepted that I alone could not serve humbly nor selflessly. I saw that my motivations started to change
as I turned to a faith in God to serve others, and I noticed my faith becoming an essential part
of my community service. Why? I was finally doing it for someone other than myself. When I serve out of
faith the focus all of a sudden is taken off of me and put onto God and the people I
am serving.

Hebrews 11:1 touches on the untouchable: “Now faith is being sure of what we hope for and certain of what
we do not see ...”. Intriguingly, it takes an unseen, even illogical, idea to make the act of service become
very real. My faith in God as a Christian has intensified my service experience because I now know that it’s
not about the riches we gain here on earth, but instead about the riches that God promises in Heaven.

A letter from the editors

Dear readers,

The seekings of the soul are, to many, essential in living, and we feel they have been as of yet
underrepresented in this section. We wish to feature here a diverse array of religious experiences, reactions to cultural schisms, and
spiritual endeavors of any and all sorts. We emphatically encourage voices often whispered to shout and those less often heard
to share words. Please enjoy and/or discuss this religious column with an open mind.

Speak of souls,
Sara Sams and Reid Wildman
Arts & Living Co-Editors

If you are interested in writing, please contact Sara Sams or Reid Wildman.
