The Davidsonian

@ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

First Class
U.S. POSTAGE PAID
PERMIT #1

Davidson, NC

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31, 2005

VOLUME 97, NUMBER 1

Alcohol, Drug Policy revised

Streamlined rules leave some wondering if they are too strict

By AMEE PATEL & BRANDON CARROLL
Editors-in-Chief

The College completed its biannual Alcohol and Drug Policy Review this summer, both simplifying and enforcing more restrictive risk management
policies for Patterson Court parties.

In addition, the revisions have tightened drug policies and allowed drinking games, while also establishing harsher penalties, including eviction of
an entire senior apartment, for hosts of drinking games with underage participants.

The policy changes have been both praised and criticized by students.

Hosts to be liable for underage drinking games

The revisions cleared up any ambiguity regarding drinking games. The College’s Alcohol Policy now allows any individuals of legal age
to participate on Martin Court and in residence halls. Hosts are held liable for underage involvement, however, with a first
violation entailing social probation for the remainder of the semester. The sanction applies to all residents in an apartment or
dorm.

For the second offense, the revised policy stipulates, “party hosts and their roommates will be evicted from college housing without
refund.”

Underage drinkers will be fined 50 dollars for the first offense, double the usual applicable fine.

While the spirit of the change was welcomed, some questioned its feasibility. “I’m glad that drinking games were allowed,” said
Elizabeth Books ’06, president of Rusk Eating House and Building Manager of F Apartments. “I just think it’s going to
be hard for residents to regulate underage drinkers.”

Risk Management policies to be attendance based

The revised alcohol policy also restructures Patterson Court risk management policies.

Risk Managers undergo a course in alcohol safety and social event management called TIPS, or Training for Intervention Procedures, provided
by Davidson College. Once certified, these red-shirted students are

See Alcohol, page 5

Major projects completed over summer

Commons revamped, weight room built

By AMELIA RICHMOND
Staff Writer

The Physical Plant and the Residence Life Office (RLO) worked on over 800 projects this summer. Of these, three stand
out: Vail Commons was gutted and remodeled into a more upscale and sophisticated eatery; new football stands were added, and
the area beneath them was transformed into a weight lifting facility; and several apartments were renovated and reequipped.

Construction on Vail Commons began on the day of graduation.

The Physical Plant and Dining Services had two weeks to complete preliminary construction

See A&L, PAGE 6

before summer camps at Davidson began and 80 days to finish the renovations before the fall semester commenced.

After researching other academic institutions and several corporate offices, Director of Dining Services Dee Phillips and Director of Auxiliary Services
Richard Terry decided to go with the more upscale look of the corporate offices, as they felt students might prefer
a more sophisticated place to

See Summer, page 2

The Union Board gave first-years the opportunity to dress up in wacky outfits on their first day of Orientation.

College welcomes Class of 2009

By COLLEEN MCKOWN
Staff Writer

Davidson’s New Student Orientation, which took place from August 17 to August 21, was filled with activities that helped both
students and parents make the transition to college life.

Acting Dean of Admission and Financial Aid Chris Gruber said that the purpose of Orientation is “to establish comfort in
students, to familiarize them with the rich traditions at Davidson, to get to know those they will be celebrating this
four-year experience with, and to affirm that Davidson is the right place for them.”

Certain Orientation sessions, such as the Orientation Fair, were designed to help students learn about specific Davidson departments, programs, and
services, including Dining Services, Business Services, Campus Safety, and several other departments.

“I appreciated the organized activities, because they were a good way to meet people,” Abby McKenna ’09 said. “From talking
to people at other schools, it was not a typical orientation. It was inclusive and nurturing, and everything was helpful.”

Another important feature of this year’s orientation was the “A Community of Respect” program, which taught students what Davidson stands
for, emphasizing the importance of respecting oneself, others, and the law.

During the session, theatrical students enacted several extreme situations, including sexual assault and drug abuse.

The enactments were more intense than those of past orientations because the administration felt it important that students be informed
of such situations, even though they are not commonplace occurrences at Davidson.

The “Class of 2009 Olympics” on Friday afternoon and a trip to the Lake Campus on Sunday afternoon were among
the many social events that were planned for the first years.

“The trip to the Lake Campus was a highlight for me, because in the five years I’ve planned Orientation, we’ve
had to cancel the trip because of weather,” said Associate Dean of Student Life and Orientation Coordinator Kathy Bray-Merrell. “It
is important to have fun and relaxation during Orientation.”

The first years enjoyed the trip as well.

“The Lake Campus was my favorite part,” Chloe Mauro ’09 said. “The weather was nice, and by then I knew
people, so it was fun.”

One of the most important events of the weekend was the Honor Code and Code of Responsibility Commitment Ceremony, which
took place on the

See Freshmen, page 4

SPORTS: Fall sports preview

SEE PAGE 13

Eat your heart out, Grinnell

Will the new Alcohol Policy work?

See PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 10
