4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Apartments, continued from page 1

"This was not the first time Knox has had problems with its heating and air conditioning systems," George Kallop said.
"I resolved to call Davidson’s administration the following morning."

Resident advisors alerted RLO when heating systems shut down on the afternoon of Jan. 18. A physical plant technician addressed
the problem and heat returned. Later that evening, a different malfunction occurred, and the heat shut off again. RLO did
not receive notification of the second failure until the following morning.

"On the night the heat was off, the moons were aligned and several problems happened coincidentally," said David Holthouser, Director
of Facilities and Engineering.

In response to the overnight failure, a technician checked and repaired all eight furnaces. Associate Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano
sent out an e-mail to students that explained the heat failure and provided an emergency service number to call in
case of another after-hours failure.

"I think that the administration did their best once they knew about it," Kallop said. "What remains to be seen
is what Davidson will do to avoid similar problems in the future."

RLO has received more than 40 maintenance requests related to heat and air conditioning in the sophomore apartments since the
start of the academic year.

Since the Jan. 18 repairs, most rooms have maintained a comfortable temperature; however, several students reported frustration with unreliable room
temperature control during interviews for this article.

"Once the heat was fixed, it did a complete 180 and became unbearably hot," Ty White ’07 said. "That’s where
we stand right now. I haven’t slept in my bed for a long time. I’ve been sleeping on the couch
with the windows open."

Marsicano emphasizes the importance of reporting problems to resident advisors so that RLO and physical plant workers can promptly address
the issue.

"It is not our intention for students to be uncomfortable," Marsicano said. "Once notified, we try to respond as quickly
as possible."

Resident Advisor Elizabeth Ireland ’07 said she has appreciated RLO’s responsiveness to maintenance requests and overall accessibility; however, she believes
that students would...

HELP WANTED

MATURE, RESPONSIBLE FEMALE TO HELP WITH MY THREE YOUNG CHILDREN. MAY INCLUDE SOME LIGHT HOUSEKEEPING. WILLING TO SUBMIT TO BACKGROUND
CHECK. MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY, 4-6 HOURS A DAY. DAYS AND TIMES FLEXIBLE BUT PREFER MORNING HOURS. $10.00 / HOUR. CPR
EXPERIENCE PREFERRED AND BABYSITTING EXPERIENCE AND REFERENCES REQUIRED. MUST HAVE OWN TRANSPORTATION. PLEASE CALL STACEY IF INTERESTED 704-894-0986

Make law school a reality. Higher LSAT score guaranteed or your money back. Planning to take the June 2005 exam?
Preparation begins February 20th on the Davidson College Campus. Only Kaplan provides complete preparation for the LSAT. Call or visit
us online today.

KAPLAN
1-800-KAP-TEST
kaptest.com/lsat

Test Prep and *LSAT is a registered trademark of the Law School Admission Council. **Conditions and restrictions apply. For complete
guarantee eligibility requirements, visit kaptest.com/hsg. The Higher Score Guarantee applies only to Kaplan courses taken and completed within the United
States and Canada.Benefit greatly from comprehensive renovation efforts. “It’s frustrating that the sophomore apartments do not have many of the
amenities offered up the hill, such as built-in closets or sinks,” Ireland said. “I think that there should be more
of an emphasis placed on renovating these buildings.”

Students commonly refer to Akers, Knox, and Irwin by the nickname “Sophomore Slums.” In addition to air-conditioning and heat problems,
students cite small room size, poor lighting, lack of sinks in rooms, poor air circulation, and poorly-ventilated windows as disadvantages
to living down the hill. Furthermore, their proximity to Patterson Court causes them to suffer additional damage from intoxicated students.

“The sophomore apartments are the most undesirable dorms on campus,” Matt McCarville ’07 said. “There will always be discrepancies between
housing options—that is why we have the lottery system—but when it comes to sophomore apartments the playing field needs to
be leveled.”

Future renovation plans are not concrete, but the sophomore apartments are among the top items of consideration. Budget constraints and
last summer’s costly renovation of Belk will determine the extent to which dorms can be modified this summer. Duke and
Martin Court F, which have not been renovated since 1992 and 1994, respectively, are also under consideration for major renovations.

“The sophomore apartments are slated for renovation sooner rather than later,” Marsicano said. “It is important for students to understand
that there are buildings that need to be renovated more urgently than Knox, Irwin, and Akers, and they will be
renovated first.”

The sophomore apartments were built in the early 1980s to relieve housing shortages on campus. “Those buildings are difficult,” Marsicano
said. “They were built as temporary structures. One was built in about 90 days. They are not the sort of
thing we would build again.”

When the sophomore apartments were built, a single thermostat determined the temperature of all the rooms on a hall. Davidson
hired a mechanical engineering firm in 1996 to develop a system that would provide more individual control. The heat system
is an intermediate step between no individual control and full individual control.

“This system is vastly better conceptually because it recognizes and responds to seven rooms wanting different temperatures,” Holthouser said. “The
bad news with this system is that there are more moving parts, and that causes maintenance staff to put in
a lot of effort down there.”

According to Holthouser, the 1996 renovation was the best solution available at the time. He attributes recent failures to the
wear and tear caused by years of use. Most dorms on campus are on a 10-year renovation cycle. The last
major renovation took place in 1996.

---

CHEESE MELT
VEGGIE BURGER
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP
VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES
CAESAR SALAD
FRESH SQUEEZED JUICE
HOMEMADE SOUP

---

Eat-in or Take-out
896-7743
Sat-Thur 8-8
Fri 8-9
