THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2005

Week in Review

The Week end

TRUMBO’S PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat Game of the Week
Saturday at 1:00 p.m.
Football vs. Drake
Homecoming

Following an impressive 48-17 win at Valparaiso last Saturday, the ’Cats prepare to play PFL defending champion Drake on homecoming
weekend. Besides the coronation and pretty dresses at halftime, this game should give us a good idea of just how
competitive the football team can really be.

Outside the Den
Yankees at Red Sox
9/30-10/2
Season Ending Series

After this weekend, baseball starts to get interesting. With the division at stake, The Yanks and Sox will battle it
out this weekend with games on Friday (7:05, ESPN), Saturday (1:15, Fox) and Sunday (2:05). Despite our ideological differences, I’m
adopting the opinion of Nathan Bradshaw: anomalies like last year’s happen, but that’s why they’re called anomalies. The Yankees will
win the division.

NCAA and mascot ban

Imagine this: You’re a professional baseball player, and after a long struggle in the playoffs, your team has made it
to the World Series. It’s the ninth inning, and you’re down by two runs. You are at bat with two
men on, yet when the pitch tears over the plate, your timing is perfect. You’ve hit a home run with
three RBI to win the game. But upon crossing third base, you stop. You don’t score, and the game never
ends because you haven’t touched home plate. For whatever reason, you are reluctant to go that extra 90 feet.

Now compare that to the way the NCAA has been treating the ban on “offensive” and “hostile” mascots from athletic
departments, and you might begin to draw some parallels. In April 2001, a division of the NCAA, the Minority Opportunities
and Interests Committee, was asked to compile an argument for the removal of Native American mascots from member schools. Two
years later, there was a list of 31 institutions whose logos and mascots were found to be derogatory to American
Indians. These included the nicknames of the Indians, the Seminoles, the Utes, the Braves, and the Redmen, among others.

Then, this August, the NCAA came out with a ruling that banned these schools, whose number was reduced to 18
after some debate, from displaying their mascots while competing in the post-season. Cheerleaders and band members will have to cover
up any non-P.C. imagery starting in 2008. Schools that refused this not-so-subtle nudge to change mascots would not be allowed
to host post-season contests. Major college football teams would not be affected, however, because there are no NCAA Division 1A
playoffs. Also, the Florida State Seminoles were allowed an exemption because the Seminole tribe had given their consent and support
to the university for the mascot, and they petitioned the NCAA. Other schools, like the Utah Utes, were soon excepted
as well, after they sued the organization or presented convincing appeals.

The ban, which started out weak, became ridiculously unproductive. Why would they take the step to eliminate these “offensive uses
of American Indian mascots” and then stop short of actually doing anything? If the imagery is so “abusive,” then why
weren’t the offending schools told to drop the logos and come up with something more appropriate? I could be completely
wrong, but I don’t find these mascots so terrible. The whole tomahawk chop thing notwithstanding, most of these schools, such
as the Illinois Illini who are cheered on by Chief Illiniwek, use the characters to promote positive qualities like strength,
perseverance, and bravery.

I then asked myself why the NCAA would choose not to impose a full-scale ban. It’s easy to see. They
have no guts. They really do not want to cause that much of a rumble and screw up the careers
of athletes stuck in the middle of the debate. Already they are being accused of drudging up a worn-out fight
while they should be focusing on more important issues like academic standards for athletes and declining graduation rates.

Three years ago, Sports Illustrated did a survey and found that 81 percent of Native Americans thought that the mascots
represented tradition and should not be removed from use. The Fighting Sioux of the University of North Dakota have been
affected by the ban, despite the fact that they have over 400 Native American students who don’t seem to mind
their school’s logo. Said Florida State President T. K. Wetherell, “Florida State University is stunned at the complete lack of...Appreciation
for cultural diversity shown by the National Collegiate Athletic Association’s executive committee... That the NCAA would now label our close
bond with the Seminole Tribe of Florida as culturally ‘hostile and abusive’ is both outrageous and insulting.” So, my advice
to the NCAA is to quit fooling around and make a decision. Take back the stupid rule, because it’s ineffectual
and will cost both the NCAA and the affected schools a lot of money between legal battles and buying new
uniforms to replace the “‘abusive”’ ones.

DiMarco Clutch at Presidents Cup
By Ricky Dimon
Staff Writer

After 32 matches over four full days of play, the Presidents Cup was still up for grabs late in the
day at the Robert Trent Jones Golf Club. It all came down to the final match on the 18th hole,
where the golfer who wanted this win the most stood over a 15-foot putt that would give the Americans the
win.

For Chris DiMarco, this was a chance to finally finish first. Consistently in the top 10 of the world golf
rankings, DiMarco has failed to collect the hardware expected of a player of his caliber. Since his last PGA tour
victory in 2002, he has endured seven runner-up finishes, including heartbreakers at the PGA Championship and The Masters. You couldn’t
blame DiMarco if he wanted to win this one for himself. He could sink the final putt and bask in
the glory of being the hero of the tourney, and the golf gods surely would not frown upon such long-overdue
selfishness.

But if anyone on the American side knows what being a team player means, it’s Chris DiMarco. In the last
two Ryder Cup events, most of the American team looked about as interested in the proceedings as Washington Nationals manager
Frank Robinson when he fell asleep in the dugout during a game. Attributing the Europeans’ ‘02 and ‘04 victories to
having better golfers is unreasonable. Such humiliating defeats can only be explained one way: the American team was more combustible
than a reaction between perchloric acid and acetic anhydride. Hal Sutton, the American captain for the 2004 event, inexplicably paired
Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson together on the first two days of play. I still think he should be investigated
for it. That’s like telling the Yankees and Red Sox to join forces during an October pennant race. Woods and
Mickelson were downright awful as a team. The rest of the “team” was equally atrocious and equally unenthused. Except for
DiMarco.

Whereas most American golfers save their emotions for normal PGA events, DiMarco is the complete opposite. He calmly goes about
his business during individual competitions, but when it comes to playing for American pride, DiMarco makes a Tiger Woods 18th-green-at-Augusta
fist-pump look amateurish. Not only is DiMarco the team’s emotional leader, but he lets his golf clubs do plenty of
talking themselves. In that abysmal 2004 Ryder Cup, DiMarco was one of only two Americans to notch two wins over
the four days of competition. Heading into last Sunday’s showdown at the Presidents Cup, he had already amassed three wins
and a tie for the U.S. squad.

That’s a great record, but under these circumstances, great isn’t enough for Chris DiMarco. When golf legend Jack Nicklaus is
your captain, you have to be better than great. Standing over the final putt, the man who has never won
a single major tournament only thought about doing it for someone who won 18 majors in his career. “All I
thought about was to get him a win,” DiMarco said of his captain. Boy, did he ever deliver. DiMarco, with
his trademark “claw” grip on the putter, authoritatively rolled the clinching putt into the center of the cup. It gave
him a one-up win in his deciding singles match, and it gave Jack Nicklaus another extraordinary golfing triumph. Most importantly
of all, it gave the U.S. team a much-needed win in team competition and saved 11 other American golfers from
having to explain another disheartening performance.

“For Chris to win it was so fitting this week,” Mickelson said. “It’s a memory that we’ll have for a
lifetime, and we’ll never forget.” Let’s hope they remember it come time for the 2006 Ryder Cup. But lest they
forget what it means to play for your country, they will soon be reminded by the sound of a Chris
DiMarco roar from some distant place on a golf course that once thought it could suck the life out of
yet another American team.
