4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Commons, continued from page 1

The phase of renovations will seek to correct the dark, narrow serving area. “The biggest problem is what we call
‘the servery,’” Terry said. “It takes me back to when I was in first grade in 1965. It kind of
sends the message that you'll get what we give you and you'll like it. It's crowded and hard to identify
what options you've got.” After the renovations, the servery will extend out twice as far into the dining area. The
food stations will be set up in a scatter system, so that students can go directly to the station with
the meal they desire. The different stations include an entrée station with a menu that changes every day; a display
cooking area that will serve made-to-order stir fry, pasta, or quesadillas; a combination deli and pizza station with the capability
to grill, toast, or heat pizzas and sandwiches; and a grill area with a flat-top grill and fryers. The salad
bar, another popular feature of Commons, will also undergo changes. “The salad bar will be double-sided with the capability for
soup and chili,” Phillips said. “There will also be chilled, refrigerated salad plates. One side is the size of the
current salad bar.” More waffle irons will be added to a cereal area, and a dessert station will display ice
cream, yogurt, brownies, cakes, and cookies.

“The biggest problem is what we call the servery. It takes me back to when I was in first grade
... It kind of sends the message that you'll get what we give you and you'll like it. It's crowded
and hard to identify what options you've got.”
--Richard Terry, Director of Auxiliary Services

A separate beverage bar will also reduce traffic by allowing students to get their glasses and then choose a beverage
without having to wait in line. The beverage bar will feature a separate water dispenser, as well as the addition
of freshly brewed iced tea. Commons will also receive new light fixtures and carpet and acoustical tiles to help moderate
the sound. Both Phillips and Terry, however, are uncertain about how much can be accomplished during Phase One renovations, because
Commons will have to continue serving meals to summer camps. “We have an extensive summer camp program, so we plan
to do all that serving in the Harrison room, or the quiet side of Commons,” Terry said. “The servery and
the floor on the servery side should be completed before students come back. If we had another location to do
the summer meals, we could close off the building.”

Other phases of the renovations will focus on the kitchen. Commons will receive new cooler and freezer space and more
efficient equipment for hot food production. The offices that are currently located next to the pizza bar will be moved
to the balcony to create a private dining area where students and faculty members can hold meetings. The existing pizza
bar will be converted into a workspace for catering. There is no set timeline for these phases because the money
for renovations is coming out of Auxiliary Services’ savings rather than sources such as the Annual Fund. Phillips and Terry
developed the ideas for the renovations by visiting other college campuses, including Rutgers, the University of Georgia, Vanderbilt, Sewanee, Rhodes,
and UNC Greensboro. Because Davidson students expressed dislike of the neon food court setup of most college dining halls, however,
they also examined local corporate accounts, such as TIAA-CREF, the SAS Institute, and Gateway Village. “Students want more of a
traditional, non-neon look,” Phillips said. “Most college campuses look the same. This will be different.”

Student opinion has been important throughout the design of the renovations, and the SGA committee on Auxiliary Services has had
some input in the plans. “Auxiliary Services has involved students with focus groups to determine what would best fit the
needs of this campus, but the actual planning of the renovation has been largely in-house,” said Wilson McCrory ’07, a
member of the SGA committee. “They allowed us to see the plans at various stages and to provide input as
necessary, but in the end the Auxiliary Services committee did not have much of an impact in the plans.” According
to Phillips, student input in the plans has mainly come from word of mouth. She invites students to stop by
her office in Commons to view the design and offer their own suggestions. The SGA committee is overall supportive of
the coming renovations to Commons. “We are excited about the plans for the new dining hall, as they appear to
be both extremely functional and timeless,” McCrory said. “The plans should make the dining hall a more inviting and user-friendly
place to eat, and they will also provide the Commons staff with the best possible means to provide fresh, quality
food and even more options than we currently enjoy.” Both Phillips and Terry expect that the renovations will attract more
students to Commons. “We're hoping that meal plans will increase because it is a dated facility,” Phillips said. “I really
do think that you will see participation increase here.”

Sushi @ The Lake
(704) 987-8080
www.sushiatthelake.com
Hibachi Grill Special
10% Off with School ID
Monday-Friday 2pm-6pm
Saturday 11:30am-5pm

Soup, continued from page 1

Community service programs at Davidson, said, “There are many older houses out there that are in desperate need for repair
and their owners cannot fiscally or physically do the renovating themselves.” After its launch this March, HAMMERS will utilize volunteers
so all labor costs are diminished and only material costs remain. Molinary finds power in such an organization not only
because families will now live in secure conditions, butAlso because the organization “brings students together to learn new skills—like using
sheetrock and how to spackle walls. They become confident in themselves and their new abilities while helping those in need.”

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2005

Community members of all ages turned out to taste soup last Saturday.

Kappa Sig, continued from page 1

The previous Davidson chapter was expelled from the national organization in the spring of 2003 after one of its members
and six of its pledges were charged with cruelty to animals and conspiracy to commit felony animal cruelty for beating
a goose to death with a golf club at nearby Roosevelt Wilson Park. The Supreme Executive Committee of Kappa Sigma
Fraternity voted on March 31, 2003 to revoke the charter of the Davidson chapter “for no less than two years.”
The students involved in the incident received no jail time, only deferred prosecution, a form of probation in which first-time
offenders can avoid criminal records by admitting their guilt and maintaining good behavior for the next 12 months. They were
also ordered to perform 100 hours of community service and undergo a psychological evaluation.

If Kappa Sigma receives permission to start recolonization in the next couple of months—a process that includes community service, leadership
training, team-building activities, and academic success workshops—it will likely get its charter back as early as next fall. According to
Assistant Executive Director of Kappa Sigma Fraternity Matt Bott and District Grand Master Jon Bowman, previously initiated members of the
fraternity and pledges directly involved in the goose-killing incident will not be eligible for membership in the new colony. Pledges
not involved in the incident, however, will be eligible for membership, and former members may participate in an advisory capacity.

“We don’t want to take anybody who was a former member because we want this to be completely new. We're
trying to create a new culture for fraternity excellence,” Bott said. He added that since the pledges had been associated
with Kappa Sigma for only a short period of time before the Davidson chapter was closed, they should be given
another opportunity to participate.

While at Davidson, Bott and Bowman met with Hamm and Vice President of Student Life Tom Shandley. They also conducted
individual and group interviews with 15 former Kappa Sigma members or pledges, most of them juniors. Hamm said that Kappa
Sigma hoped to have a core group of approximately 30 students established by the beginning of the fall semester. These
individuals would then be charged with recruiting other students for membership.

Win Smith ’06, a former Kappa Sigma pledge who was interviewed by Bott and Bowman on Thursday, wrote, “I feel
very positive about how things have progressed up to this point, and we are all very excited to start fresh
and reestablish Kappa Sigma as one of the strongest organizations on Patterson Court.” Other interviewees contacted after their Thursday session
either declined comment or did not respond to requests for information.

Hamm expected to receive a proposal from the national branch of Kappa Sigma Fraternity by the end of this week,
and Bott said that if recolonization begins in the spring, “there will be an announcement in the next month.”

Code, continued from page 1

Challenge of judging intent, saying that “the Council may view a student’s paper differently if it sees mitigating circumstances.” Professors
are concerned that the Honor Council potentially lessens the crime by considering the accused student's intentions rather than actions. History
Department Chair Sally McMillen said, “In our profession, there is little debate over ‘intent.’ Either you plagiarize or you don’t—the
words speak for themselves.” History professor Jonathan Berkey agreed. “From a professional standpoint, the question of intentionality obscures the academic
offense.”

Many faculty members have stopped reporting suspected Honor Code violations in their classrooms and instead handle the situation within the
department. According to the History Department website, “Plagiarism may result in a failing grade in a course regardless of any
action by the Honor Council.” Some professors believe this policy compromises the Honor Council’s authority. “Students taken to the Honor
Council receive much more serious sanctions for plagiarism,” said Political Science Department Chair Dr. Mary Thornberry. “It is not fair
to them that other students who have plagiarized are not punished in the same manner.”

“As long as the rules are there, we should play by them,” said history professor Dr. Job Thomas. Vice President
of Student Life and Dean of Students Tom Shandley offered an administrative perspective on the issue. “The faculty is expected
to support the Honor Council, however, we realize that because our honor system entrusts students to make values of their
peers, a certain amount of tension will always exist.” Shandley also pointed out that of the Honor Code cases tried
in the last decade, only a few not guilty pleas were ultimately found not guilty. The Honor Council has generally
proven to value faculty judgment.

Despite their objections, most professors do not want to interfere in the Honor Council’s student-run process and instead advocate more
coordinated faculty-Honor Council forums in order to promote improved communication. Dr. Ault said, “It’s fair to say that each of
us have had experiences with the Honor Council that have left a bad taste, but we are still willing to
work with the system.” Knowles pointed out other efforts to breach the gap between professors and the Honor Council, including
the distribution of informational publications, the Council’s website, and student liaisons to each academic department. “Professors are constantly producing valuable
evidence for the Council, and we greatly appreciate the hard work they put into each case,” he said. “They are
essential in maintaining the Honor Code at Davidson.”
