THE DAVIDSONIAN

Undiscovered

HUMOR

Bookstore pricing glitch leaves students overcharged

In a statement released yesterday, the Davidson College Campus Bookstore announced that a pricing glitch has been affecting all advertised prices for the past five years. According to Bookstore manager Joy Adams, an uncorrected coding problem related to the Y2K bug led to the prices being rounded up to the next highest prime integer. Adams explained the dilemma. “I guess we forgot to update the software for Y2K, so when the year switched, our computers crashed. As part of its automatic price-protection feature, the pricing software tried to automatically reconfigure the pricing matrix. Unfortunately, there was a minor bug in the software. According to our estimates, the average price of most items was raised about twenty to twenty-five percent.”

Students were overcharged an average of 25 percent for many items, parents, and friends of the College were overcharged for their purchases. Oddly enough, Bookstore sales have been mostly unaffected by the mistaken price increase, and in fact, have even increased. Said Adams, “We couldn’t have possibly guessed that anything had happened. Nobody complained about the increased costs of items, and the students were still buying the merchandise, obviously unaffected by the higher prices.” “I was amazed that no one noticed they were paying two dollars for one pencil,” she declared, “or 20 bucks for a DVD. It’s not like they couldn’t go to Wal-Mart and get the same DVD for half the price.”

Davidson College themed items such as this sweatshirt have been relatively minimal, with many students reporting not to have noticed the increased prices, and most students claiming indifference. Sarah Nelson ’08, when asked her opinion, said, “I don’t really mind paying the high prices. As long as my father’s credit card is not rejected, I could not care less what the bookstore charges.” Furthermore, many students report that they would gladly pay higher prices, in exchange for convenience, and the fact that many parents pay for the charges on Cat Cards. Said Percy Macintyre ’07, “My dad gives me a thousand bucks every year on my Cat Card. It’s not like if I don’t spend the money, I'll get it. So, I figure that I might as well spend it wantonly in the campus bookstore. I’ve already bought a Davidson watch, a Davidson rug, a Davidson chair for my desk, multiple Davidson Christmas ornaments, a Davidson golf set, a lithograph of old Chambers, a Davidson silver necklace, and a Davidson wine glass set. Also, whenever I walk into the bookstore, I buy two or three grab bags.”

Members of the administration, while apologetic, do not expect to refund the money that students were overcharged. Explained Dean of Students Michael Altiere, “We do feel bad that students were overcharged, but they still chose to buy items, even when faced with the inflated prices. They clearly valued the goods at the higher price. And, it’s not as if the money isn’t going to Davidson for students’ benefits. To be honest, I doubt that we would have been able to afford all of these great new athletic fields if the Bookstore prices were never raised.” Others, though, feel cheated. Said Michael Williams ’07, “Now I really wish I hadn’t bought eight of those Davidson Swimming shirts at the inflated prices. I mean, I don’t even know anyone on the Swim Team.”

You wanna try filming a “documentary” here?

REX HOLLOWAY
CEO
CHICKS GONE CRAZEE INC.

It pains me to say that my recent visit to your campus was nothing short of disappointing. Last weekend I came to Davidson with my camera crew in hopes of getting footage for my College Chicks Gone Crazee: Liberal Arts Ladies DVD set to release this summer. We showed up to “Self-Selection night” last Friday with high expectations. If I wanted film of guys running around in jock straps, I would have gone to a football game or something. I’ve never been to a party where I had to pass out shirts to the guys in hopes that they would put clothes back on. What’s next, a Richard Simmons: Sweatin’ to the Oldies night? Everyone dress up in your favorite sequin tank top and three-inch-long pair of shorts. I’m sure that would be real entertaining. Or not.

This experience reminds me of the last time I came to Davidson, after I heard about something called “Ladies Night.” I should sue those bastards for false advertising. There was no night of ladies, it was just a sausage fest. What the hell is that?

Just this week, we came to Davidson to try filming at Turner Eating House for their Mardi Gras Party. Now, I thought, this has some serious potential. Where else is there more female nudity than at Mardi Gras? Surely, this couldn’t possibly be ruined too. I showed up, cheap sets of beads in my left hand and a camera to record all the hot, collegiate, female nudity I would be seeing that night in my right hand. But, I hadn’t counted on what I call the “Davidson College Factor,” an absolute lack of female nudity. Once again Davidson, you failed me. The only girl-on-girl action I saw was two girls hugging because they were so excited that Madonna’s “Like a Prayer” was being played for the seventh time that night. The only boob I saw was, well, nothing at all. Where was the large mob of horny dudes chanting “Show your boobs!”? Where were the half-naked girls dancing around? Where were the drunken lesbian experiences that I was supposed to capture on my video camera and sell for millions of dollars to many different people? Davidson College, you disappointed me and you disappointed the American public.

What is wrong with Davidson girls? Do you think that you’re too good to be exploited for a T-shirt or some plastic beads or something? These are supposed to be the years that you do regrettable things like get naked on film that is mass marketed and sold across the country. The guys understand this because they are the ones getting naked at the parties. And guys, what the heck’s wrong with you? These girls have potential. If you guys knew how to sweet talk them,then you wouldn’t be so bored that you'd need to run around naked. Let me tell you something, if I were at Davidson, we'd be having strip poker games every night. The Mardis Gras party would feature one thing: naked chicks. And ladies night? Ha! We’d have stripper night every night at my Frat. I could have made a killing at Davidson if people were into buying film of naked, sweaty, hairy guys. Too bad no one wants to see that. This crap won't sell; it’s not even worth a 4am infomercial on UPN. I am debating whether to file a lawsuit over lost money spent on film, travel expenses, and the emotional trauma suffered from seeing so many naked guys at parties. I'll give a call to that guy over at College Males Gone Mad. He'll love your parties. I know I sure as heck didn’t.

Jiff of Jeff
BY A GHOSTWRITER

Do you know where I can buy 25 apples? Apple cider? I HATE RATS!

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2005

Campus SPOTLIGHT: 

Upon returning to campus, living in what was formerly the common space, the rest of Sentelle demanded that they maintain a lounge of some kind, and the only solution available to their residential advisor, according to him, was to continue using the former lounge as their lounge and just try to work around the schedules of the two residents. RA Greg Kristofferson '07 explained, “The hall had really gotten used to that space as a place for their relaxation and bonding. I mean, isn’t that what college is supposed to be about? Besides, with Justin and Tim having been gone all fall, I figured they would appreciate the chance to get to know their hallmates better.” Summers and Peterson do not share their residential advisor’s sentiments. “I don’t see how having the entire hall invade our room whenever they want is supposed to be a positive thing,” Summers said. Hallmate Josey Maclvers ‘06 disagreed. “I would never have even talked to Justin and Tim if we weren't still using the lounge. I’m pre-med, I don’t have much time to socialize and I probably would’ve just said hi to each of them and then gone on with my day.” Cameron Shannon ’05 said, “I think it’s a great idea. What better way for these two to get back into the Davidson routine than by having all the hall events be in their own room? Kristofferson allowed the roommates to lock the door from 2:00 AM to 5:00 AM; otherwise, the room is to be open for use all day. “I have to work my homework schedule around everyone’s TV times. If I need to do some French before class, I have to be finished before Regis and Kelly come on. If I want to get some history reading done before dinner, I have to wait until Seinfeld is over. And if The OC is on, forget it, I might as well just leave,” said Meadows. Peterson agreed that the room can be a hassle at times. “I haven't gotten used to being able to fall asleep while a group of people are watching CSI: New York in my room. I just can’t feel comfortable in my own room. The worst was when a group of guys held a poker tournament in my room until two, and then some girl woke me up at six in the morning because she was watching ‘Good Day America.” Kristofferson claimed to be looking into alternate options, including an outdoor lounge, or perhaps rotating the lounge through each residential room on a weekly basis. Both roommates, however, insist on maintaining their complaints until something is done to rectify what both see as a major problem.

WRITE FOR THE DAMN YOWL. Contact brparets@davidson.edu with ideas, comments, and spam.

Homeless man found living in old Kappa Sigma House

When Turner Eating House moved across the street to “Club Zodiac” to free up the Turner house for a semester of renovations, not only did they gain a basement, they gained a friend. During their inaugural party at the old Kappa Sigma house, a surprise guest greeted the women of Turner. Living in the bar was Bud Hotchkiss, 42, a currently unemployed native of Mooresville, NC. When two Turner juniors ventured downstairs, they discovered a sleeping Hotchkiss in the far corner. Hotchkiss stirred when the girls began loading the refrigerator. Needless to say, all parties were stunned. “When PIKA moved out last year, the social chair told me I wouldn’t have to help clean up anymore, because they would have a new house, and I wouldn’t have to commute. I know PIKA and Turner don’t do much together, but I am hoping [Turner President] Lisa Croupp will honor that commitment,” said Bud. Indeed, Bud explained that after the PIKA’s discovered his janitorial experience, they traded bar space in exchange for Bud’s help in weekly house cleaning. “The pledges still had to do the [toilet] work, but I was coerced into a substantial portion of the cleaning,” Bud explained. Bud has called the old Kappa Sig house “home” for more than a year. He was born in Mooresville, NC, and after graduating from Mooresville High School held jobs at both Chik-fil-a and Vinnie’s. After quite a few taxing weeks, Hotchkiss decided to call it quits. For good. “It just wasn’t the life for me—all that stress and time devoted to pleasing other people,” Hotchkiss said, “I decided to live out on my own. When I read that Kappa Sig was thrown off campus because of the whole goose thing, I figured that would mean that a house would be unoccupied. Unfortunately, it wasn’t as big as I imagined, but it’s fine down in the basement for just me. I’ve been doing great here, and I’ve really turned it into a little home with posters and everything. I live quite well, and eat nicely from the leftovers of the houses thrown out on Sundays.” Some Turner members could not be happier with Bud’s decision. While the Turner girls were not expecting a new “member” from the move, the house’s administration is still considering whether or not to contact authorities. “He’s a clean, nice, helpful guy and we’re happy to have him around,” replied Turner house manager Jade Rain ’07.