Kenneth Smothers, 51, died of a heart attack on Saturday, January 29, 2005. He was born on May 8, 1953, in San Antonio, Texas. He is survived by his children, Crystal, Cara, and Casey, and his grandson Ethan. Other survivors are his mother and father, Elaine Danaher and Ernest Smothers, and his siblings Randy, Vikki, Trisha, Michelle, Melody, and Diane.

For the past few years, Ken had made Charlotte his home, where he focused his life on the Urban Ministry Center. Here he became a symbol of hope not only for those less fortunate, but for staff, volunteers, artists, and visiting students from third-graders at Trinity Episcopal School to college students at UNC-Charlotte and Davidson. He was instrumental in the development and success of ArtWorks 945. He was a spokesperson for social change through the work of Homeless Helping Homeless and served as a delegate to events in Washington, DC, and at Emory University. He regularly facilitated "Faces of Homelessness" panels in the community.

Many knew Ken as a gifted vocalist, woodcarver, gardener, soccer team manager, and poet. He authored two books: “Shades of Blue: Poems, Prayers and Rants” and “Sometimes I Want Everything: Haikus of Love.”

Ken's presence was larger than life. His tender heart, warm spirit, deep caring for all people, and his accomplished writing all contributed to the breakdown of stereotypes in our community. He will be missed by many.

-Lawrence Cann of ArtWorks 945 at the Urban Ministry Center

---

Last spring, Ken read his poetry to accompany my choreography for the Dance Ensemble concert, and I drove him from his Charlotte motel (where he was staying at the time) to Davidson College several years ago. I remember “Supernatural” was the CD that was playing in the hospital room when he woke from his coma. It felt special that he shared that memory and that CD with me.

-Kendal Stewart ‘06

---

Kenneth Wayne Smothers
May 8, 1953 - January 29, 2005

---

MIRACLE WISH

God, please grant us the ability to be aware of our aliveness, to know we aren't alone or apart from our fellows, to know we're all part of a whole, our alikeness, our connectedness, and in that knowledge, allow love to bloom.

—Ken

---

We were on Main Street when a bite was found in a parking lot, and he tried to open it. He looked over at me, gasping, "I never eat a hotdog."

---

‘Bedroom Farce’ sure to please audiences

By SARAH SAMS
Arts & Living Editor

Head to the woods, lovers, with your tents and double sleeping bags. But let’s be honest (with a wink and a nod to Shakespeare’s Midsummer Night's Dream), “the course of true love never did run smooth.” Furthermore, if it did, then who would want to hear about it? Alan Ayckbourn uses this reality to his advantage in the theatrical comedy “Bedroom Farce.”

The Theatre Department’s upcoming performance of Ayckbourn’s play ushers into Duke Family Performance Hall three bedrooms, four quirky couples, and comedy showcasing witty wordplay and the highest humor there is to be found in lovers’ predicaments.

The central predicament of the play, which is directed by Professor of Theater Ann Marie Costa, is the struggle of Trevor (Graham Ray ’07) and Susannah (Annie Wadman ’06) to make their young marriage work. Their whirlwind marital problems inundate the bedrooms of three other couples—their newlywed friends, Kate and Malcolm (Melanie Farmer ’07 and Jonny Barlett ’05); Trevor’s past flame, Jan (Glynnis O’Donoghue ’07) and her husband Nick (Rory Huntly ’06); and the last, the bedroom of Trevor’s parents (Ryan Hastings ’05 and Hannah Legerton ’06).

“Essentially, the play is centered around relationship problems. Everyone has a relationship in their life that bothers them just a bit, if not a lot. So, what better way to spend the night than watching someone else’s problems and not dealing with your own? Call it happiness at the expense of others, but it is a really good time,” encourages Hastings.

Though “Bedroom Farce” will prove a good time for its audience, it won’t stop there. The slapstick humor is but one genre of humor to be found (situational awkwardness, puns, and more provide some type of comedic relief for all), and the humor is but one provocation of the production.

“One of the things that’s really wonderful about Alan Ayckbourn is that he walks this line between comedy and serious thoughts,” says Costa of the well-known British playwright. What happens after infatuation graduation in a relationship? “Bedroom Farce’s” exploration of marriage produces such serious questions.

The set of the play adds to its intelligence; Costa explains that the framing of the story will hopefully be captured in the design—the three rooms, perched next to each other, are literally framed. This, she says, puts the picture “a little bit askew.” It captures the “fact that this is a real world, but it also has these moments that are on the borderline of farce.”

This borderline creates a careful balance of entertainment and intelligence. In addition to the thought-provoking production’s introduction of eccentric characters getting themselves into comical situations, it is all adorned in the mid-70s fashion of Britain.

What more is there to ask for?

---

STSTRAVEL.COM

Join America’s #1 student tour operator

1-800-648-4849 / www.ststravel.com