Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

8 THE DAVIDSONIAN Page three sucks in Tomlinson SEE PAGE 5 Brickhouse declared hotspot, less popular are Woodhouse and Texthook
skimmed ‘I write for the Yowl’ pickup line gets even worse SEE PAGE 10 ORTA UBERTAS DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER We
took this issue pass/fail Loving It,’ or ULI, a group that abstained from all First and Second Night Down events
because they have made the decision to wait until Self Selection night to attend a Patterson Court party. Most of
the members can be seen wearing “promise rings” around campus, which symbolize their commitment to a fraternity and eating house-free
lifestyle. The 45 students who formed ULI are part of a growing number of young people in this country interested
in preserving conservative values rather than succumbing to adolescent desires or peer pressure. Religion does not necessarily forbid the joining
of fraternities or social groups, but many in ULI feel that some biblical themes are applicable in this situation. Just
as Moses preached against following September 14, 2005 Students gather for a meeting of the Loving It’ group last Friday
night more than one nomadic tribe, the group abstains from partying until they meet their “special match.” Promise rings typically
represent a commitment to abstinence from sexual activity, but ULI has adapted this practice to show the group’s unity, and
commitment to “staying up.” ULI president Mack Brown ’09 said the organization came about while a group of friends on
first Richardson were talking about the flyers springing up around campus about First Night Down parties. Brown said, “Everyone was
asking everyone else about which parties they were planning on going to, when I eventually got up the nerve to
ask if anyone else felt uncomfortable about heading down to the Court already.” Brown said many of his classmates shared
his feelings, and over half of the people on his hall joined in his decision to skip all First Night
Down functions this year. “We've only been here for two weeks,” Brown said. “I’m not willing to pick a fraternity
to go hang out at in that short amount of time, and that’s how a lot of the girls felt.
CAMPUS SAFETY Davidson Campus Police have always been concerned with students' safety at Patterson Court especially, and social gatherings in
general. A flurry of email warnings against using fake identifications to purchase alcohol or reiterating the consequences of driving while
intoxicated usually accompany the big party weekends here on campus. Davidson 101, defense against rape classes, the night phones all
over campus, and regular patrols also help to ensure that students feel and are secure. This year, Campus Police Chief
James Mitchell added another preventative measure for First and Second Night Down. In the mailboxes of first-year female students last
Thursday was a small stapled pamphlet labeled “Guys to Avoid.” Contained within the 10 pages are THEYOWL Your Davidsonian Honor
Section Editors: Bobby Kenner and Jeff Yeakel Writer: Nathan Bradshaw Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact
the editors at bokenner@davidson.edu or jeyeakel@davidson.edu. Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it
should be taken as truth. the names of over 140 male students whom the Campus Police have collectively determined are
sketchy enough to warrant warning unsuspecting freshmen about them. “Every year we do the same things,” said Mitchell. “Safety classes,
lectures, reminders, and still people end up feeling like the first week- Night Down was a lot of fun, but
that she really regretted waking up on Saturday with a guy in her bed. She says she knew his name,
but every time I asked what it was she against the implementation of this policy. “It’s discrimination, pure and simple.
The police don’t know who I am, they don’t know what kind of person I am. All they know is
that I have a neckbeard and made the police blotter last year for yelling pickup lines at some girls in
Richardson.” Even those who were not part of the list end open to Campus Police first-year students is a dangerous
situation. The administration may feel

---Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

That action I take is concerns, said Schofield ‘07 (left), ranked fourth ‘most sketchy’ on the Campus Police’s being judged
and sensitive in the pamphlet, seen partying with two friends and a chicken at Spring Frolics. "We’ve had problems down
at Patterson Court, but I am not so naive.” Along with the names, photos, and class years of these sketchy
men at Davidson, Mitchell and the other authors of the pamphlet included information about the residence, fraternity, and favorite pick-up
lines of each student. The first two pages were labeled in bold as “Seriously Sketchy,” denoting thirty guys Campus Police
considers particularly dangerous to the chastity of freshmen. Jenna Thomas ’09 was very happy to receive the pamphlet in her
mail. “I had a friend from my high school who was a freshman two years ago; she said that First
changed the subject.” Similar stories abound among upperclassmen about their first-year experience. Thomas, however, was proud to break from the
mold and end up alone in bed Saturday morning. “I rolled over and looked at my clock, then at my
roommate’s bed, where multiple pairs of underwear were still scattered over the covers and something with a beard was snoring,
and I felt so glad I had read that pamphlet.”

Some students are less than pleased with Campus Police’s effort, however. Rob Whiteman ’07, who was one of the subjects
of the pamphlet, spoke out loudly the rest of my time at Davidson. “Just because I have a guitar in
my room but can’t play it, or know romantic lines from ‘The Notebook’ even though I hate that movie, I
could end up being the guy that all the girls run away from at parties. That’s not what college is
about.”

If you thought that First Night Down seemed a little less crowded this year, you were right. A number of
first-year students have formed a club called ‘Up and about the eating houses. We’re just not ready.” The group, sporting
silver bands on their right ring fingers, have a pact not to attend any Patterson Court function until they pick
a house for good on Self Selection night in the spring. They feel that if the fraternities and eating houses
want them to join badly enough, then they should be willing to wait until the students are ready to come
down. “It’s just more memorable that way,” said ULI treasurer Sandy O'Callahan ’09. “I want my first time to be
special. I don’t want to feel like some stupid girl who just got drunk in a fraternity basement because everyone
else was doing it. I want to get drunk in a fraternity basement because I’ve built a special bond with
the people there. I want to know that the person holding the bag of wine over my head is my
friend, not just some stranger.”

Some Up and Loving It members could not resist the temptation and enjoyed the Patterson Court festivities prematurely despite their
membership. “I just couldn’t help myself,” said Heather Sebastian ’09. “I was going to visit my big brother in Knox
and just sort of got sucked into the Court. I feel terrible, but at the time it felt so natural.
My mind was saying no, but my body was saying yes.” The organization was swift to oust and distance themselves
from the members who had failed in their commitment. “We were able to tell which members had broken their promise
at our Sunday meeting by the blue Patterson Court stamps on their hand,” said Brown. “Some defectors were even wearing
the same clothes we saw them wearing the day before.” Although you cannot be brought up on Honor Code charges
for breaking your oath to refrain from down the hill activities, ULI punishes any premature partiers in a unique way.
The nine ostracized freshmen lost all membership privileges and were forced to wear a scarlet First Night Down t-shirt of
the fraternity or eating house party they visited.
