Che Dabidsonian @ "THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY" @ First Class U.S. POSTAGE PAID PERMIT #1 Davidson, NC

DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2005 VOLUME 97, NUMBER 8

Panel held to discuss black sorority
By KATE GILLESPIE
News Editor

Student leaders attempting to establish a historically black sorority on campus led a panel last night in the Sprinkle Room to discuss the issues involved in the initiative. PCC advisor Joy Hamm, Assistant Dean of Student Life Ernest Jeffries, and Assistant Dean of Admission and Financial Aid Khoury Ashoosh also participated to provide an administration perspective.

Panelists stressed the differences between a historically black sorority and white Greek organizations. Historically black sororities tend to focus more on service than on social life. “These organizations are different from a lot of the stereotypes out there about sororities,” panelist Ashley Moore ’07 said. “They are open and inclusive organizations that sponsor intellectual, spiritual, all sorts of growth for women.”

The student leaders believe that having a historically black sorority on campus will increase the participation of minority women on the Court. “When I was a freshman and I came in and visited the houses on the Court, just because of the small number of minorities on the Court, I felt like my only place was the BSC,” panelist Anna Marie Glaize ’08 said.

Although the leaders of the initiative want their own organization, they intend to co-sponsor service and social events with eating houses. They have already met with eating house presidents and made presentations at house meetings to establish a cooperative relationship. “They want to be involved in eating houses,” Hamm said. “They want to be an active part of the Patterson Court community. They’re not going to exist by themselves. My hope is that [a historically black sorority] is going to integrate the Court.”

The historically black sorority
See Sorority, page 2

Lilly Program seeks new source of funding
By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Staff Writer

As funding from its initial outside grant runs out, the Lilly Programs for the Theological Exploration of Vocation is in the process of applying for permanent endowment from the college.

The Lilly Programs started in 2000, when Davidson received a four-year $1.9 million Lilly Endowment from the Lilly Foundation, an organization that promotes the ideas that the presence of faith in the workplace leads to a more fulfilling career and that the integration of one’s values, beliefs, and principles into one’s daily life creates more meaningful experiences.

The Lilly Programs are headed by religion professor Tim Beach-Verhey and Lorren Timberman, who is in charge of sophomore programming. According to Beach-Verhey, the Lilly Programs seek “to embody and to promote the religious mission of the Reformed tradition, which views each of us as recipients of gifts who are called to live lives out of gratitude to God and to provide service to others.”

The original grant will allow the programs to continue until the end of the spring 2006 semester. Starting in the fall of 2006, the Lilly Programs will then operate for another three years on a $500,000 sustainability grant from the Lilly Foundation, which can account for up to 50 percent of the operating budget while the staff seeks permanent endowment from the college.

In the interim, the Lilly Programs must focus on finding donors to support their continuing operation and, more immediately, on matching whatever funding it receives from theHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

sustainability grant. The original: Lilly Endowment provided the Lilly Program with a yearly budget of $550,000. Under the sustainability grant, the budget will shrink to approximately $300,000 for each of the next three years. After that period, the goal is to raise $6 million, which will be placed into a fund overseen by the college, from which five percent interest, or $300,000, will be drawn each year. According to Beach-Verhey, the staff chose the figure of $6 million because it is an attainable goal that will allow the Lilly Programs to continue operating at a level near its current capacity. Although it is in no danger of disappearing from campus, the shift in funding will require the Lilly Program to pare down its budget and to truncate some of its programming. “Many programs that we think are excellent and would love to see continue we don’t have the financial wherewithal for anymore,” Beach-Verhey said. Modified versions of several programs will continue despite

See Lilly, page 3

U.S. Secretary of Education Spellings spoke at Fall Convocation. Spellings challenges seniors to lead and serve

Faculty question speaker choice

By JILLIAN BARTELS
Staff Writer

United States Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings addressed students, faculty, and parents at Fall Convocation in the Duke Family Performance Hall last Saturday. Awards were presented to several faculty members and students at Convocation, which marked the first time the Davidson class of 2006 donned their caps and gowns. Spellings became the eighth Secretary of Education in January of 2005, after serving as President Bush’s Domestic Policy Advisor during his first term. She is the first mother of school-aged children to become U.S. Secretary of Education. Her oldest daughter is a first-year student at Davidson.

Spellings began her speech by applauding Davidson’s senior class for making it through to Convocation. She told seniors that she knew that each of them would do a lot in the world using a “disciplined, creative mind for leadership and service.” Spellings charged seniors to think about what they want to do with their lives and to live by their own “honor codes,” just as they had been taught to do at Davidson. Spellings then talked about her dedication to education, including her concerns about educating children.

See Convocation, page 2

Jump in housing prices concerns faculty

Many professors live in the college-owned McConnell neighborhood.

By LEX HAMILTON
Senior Staff Writer

Housing prices in the immediate Davidson College area have increased by a dramatic 20 percent from June 2004 to June 2005 compared to the 0.25 percent average North Mecklenburg increase during the same period. Some Davidson professors have found that rising housing prices limit their ability to live close to campus. Associate professor of English Ann Fox encountered this difficulty when purchasing her home. “I am a single woman purchasing my home independently of any outside or spousal assistance,” Fox said. “So my purchasing power is directly affected by increasing housing costs. Much of the available Davidson housing market is beyond my budget and personal needs. But I was very fortunate that I found a home that met my budget and my personal criteria.” From a faculty and staff perspective, there are numerous advantages.

See Housing, page 4

NEWS: Five new trustees elected see NEWS, PAGE 3

Seasons Unabomber Fuentes to change in next in speaker deliver lecture athletics series Thursday see SPORTS, PAGE 9 see YOWL, PAGE 8 see ARTS, PAGE 6