Che Davidsonian  
DAVIDSON COLLEGE  
@ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”  
@ WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2005  
First CLASS U.S. POSTAGE PAID  
PERMIT #1 Davidson, NC  
VOLUME 96, NUMBER 20  

Trustees’ newly-endowed chair causes faculty concern  
Religion Dept. seeks active role in hiring of new professor  
By David Crow  
Editor-in-Chief Emeritus  

The recent decision of the Board of Trustees to create an endowed chair in Reformed theology in the Religion Department has caused some of the department’s faculty members to express concern about both the process and the timing of this move. 

“This decision happened largely independently of us, and while no department completely controls its own destiny, I was concerned about the way we as a department would participate,” said Dr. Karl Plank, Chair of the Religion Department. Others in the department expressed similar concerns. 

“When I first learned in The Davidsonian that this was going to happen I felt that our department had just taken something of a sucker punch,” said Religion Professor Trent Foley. “Procedurally it was done in a way that dishonors the Religion Department.”

Religion profs address issues with administrators  

The trustees’ decision to create an endowed chair in Reformed theology was made at the same time that the trustees opened up the Board to non-Christians and revised the College’s Statement of Purpose in order to reemphasize Davidson’s ongoing relationship with the Reformed tradition. 

Following the announcement of the new chair, Plank contacted President Bobby Vagt and Dean of Faculty Clark Ross and requested that they meet with the members of the department to discuss their concerns about the new chair. Among the concerns were the facts that the department had not been consulted about this decision, that the department already has several specialists in theology while lacking specialists in other areas, and that this additional chair might make it hard for the department to grow in the future. 

President Vagt was contacted for this article but declined to comment, saying, “It is my policy not to comment on personnel matters.”

See Religion, page 5  

By BEN WHIGHAM  
Senior Staff Writer  

Ben Nelson ’05, Davidson’s most recent Thomas J. Watson Fellow, combined his passion for banjo and Appalachian music to develop a year-long project that will take him to West Africa, Scotland, and Ireland. 

For over 30 years, the prestigious Watson Fellowship has enabled graduating college seniors to “create, execute and evaluate” their own international projects. Nelson plans to use the $22,000 grant to trace the origin of Appalachian music’s two principal instruments: the fiddle and the banjo. 

Nelson has divided his year abroad into two parts. He will spend the first six months in Western Africa studying historical roots of the modern banjo and the second half in Scotland and Ireland.

A love for playing the fiddle and banjo helped Nelson win this year’s Watson for travel to Scotland, Ireland, and West Africa.  

‘Caesar’: what not to wear  
see A&L, PAGE 6  

(photo courtesy of Rachel Bane)  
Students relax in the Adirondack chairs that have been placed on the lawn on Chambers lawn. See article, page 4.  

Passion for music wins Nelson a WatsonScotland and Ireland studying the fiddle. Nelson explained the historical origins of instruments commonly associated with traditional American folk music. “The banjo came to America aboard slave ships from the Caribbean, while the fiddle comes from all over Europe, especially Scotland and Ireland,” Nelson said. “Once they got here, they fused into the fiddle-banjo duets that became central to America’s music tradition.”

The Appalachian music tradition has strong personal significance to Nelson, as his parents met while playing this “old time music.” Nelson’s study abroad experience in Madagascar during the spring of his junior year further sparked his fascination with the banjo. “It was my first serious international experience,” Nelson said. “I took a banjo with me and played along with guys on the drums and other traditional instruments.” This study abroad experience led him to make the connection between the banjo and its unique history. He presented his project proposal to the Davidson Committee for the Watson Fellowship last October along with several dozen others.

See Watson, page 4

Comm. Service Office to lose three of its own
By AMANDA STEPHENS
Staff Writer

Davidson’s Community Service Office will lose three of its most beloved and prominent leaders at the end of the academic year. Ruth Pittard, Rosie Molinary, and Isha Ahsan Lee are leaving their current positions to pursue personal and professional interests.

“There are people in this world who are good at taking care of things, and then there are those who are good at taking care of people,” Michelle Levin-Crowley ’06 said. “Ruth Pittard, Rosie Molinary, and Isha Ahsan Lee are the latter.”

Pittard, Assistant Dean of Community Service, has worked at Davidson for 30 years. “I need to graduate,” Pittard said. “It has been the best job it ever could have been.” Pittard plans on doing room and board service throughout the United States for the next year. She will work with various service organizations, foundations, and individuals on social justice issues. “I want to promote positive, peaceful living,” Pittard said.

Molinary has served as Director of Community Service and Bonner Scholars for the past six years. Uncomfortable with certain administrative practices that have come to her attention, she issued her resignation rather unexpectedly and will be leaving in May. Molinary declined to comment on the specifics of her resignation. Molinary, who holds a Master’s Degree of Fine Arts in Creative Writing, plans to pursue her writing and continue her involvement with long-term volunteer projects in the area. She will also teach at local community centers and after-school programs.

Molinary speaks fondly of her experiences with the Community Service Office. “I am passionate about our mission, these students, and this community,” she said. “We have the luxury of seeing people at their absolute best. None of us ever suffer from not wanting to go to work in the morning.”

See Service, page 5

NEWS: RSC to direct student production in 2006 SEE PAGE 3

SPORTS, PAGE 13

The Iraqi war: Two years later
see PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 9