THE DAVIDSONIAN

Movies, continued from page 1

solving these problems,” Director of Instructional Support Diane Sterling said.

Epes feels that the decision to curb non-academic use of classrooms will be supported by the student body.

“I believe that the student body as a whole wants equipment working in class when they get there, wants classrooms
clean and well maintained, and wants priorities placed where they ought to be,” Epes said.

Few students, however, are aware of the administration's position, and opinion is often divided.

“I did not know that we could no longer use these classrooms for entertainment purposes. It really does not make
much of a difference to me as I try to stay as far away from Chambers as possible in my
free time,” said Keally Miranda ’07.

NEWS

Other students feel that the administration would be depriving them of an entertainment and social outlet.

“On the one hand I understand the College’s need to reduce costs and to preserve the connectivity of devices, but
on the other hand students whose rooms are without televisions or who are not satisfied with the televisions in their
lounge will invariably suffer,” Colin Brown ’07 said.

“Stopping people from watching movies at Chambers will just close down another option for people who are not interested in
drinking or going down to the Court on weekends,” Amir Vaez ’07 said.

There are no clear indications on how extensive classroom misuse actually is.

“We really have no way of knowing how rampant the usage of the classroom for non-academic purposes is. We do
go to the classrooms and monitor the hours of use and try to prevent an outage during scheduled class hours,
but random use makes this a little trickier,” Sterling said.

“I don’t believe the usage is rampant at all, but a combination of occasional encounters, sometimes by those showing class-related
videos at night, and scuttlebutt indicates that it might be desirable to say something about the matter before it becomes
a major problem,” Epes said.

Interested in taking photos for The Davidsonian?

Email jehodge@davidson.edu

paid positions available

in college. We're kind of like, challenge and nourish the Christian church and also to be a welcoming church but
haven't given up on God. (To arrange a ride to Lake Forest, please contact us.)

Sundays at 9:00 am & 10:30 am At Lake Norman YMCA

www.lakeforest.org

Passion. Grace.

Gruber, continued from page 1

Financial Aid Nancy Cable. Gruber was subsequently promoted to Acting Dean when Cable left last spring.

Vagt also said Gruber has “long, broad experience” and that “he is an energizer bunny, with an inexhaustible supply of
energy.”

Gruber arrived from the University of Richmond after working there for 19 years.

He also received his B.A. and M.B.A. from University of Richmond.

The other two candidates for the position, narrowed down from a field of about 60, were William Bynum ’84, the
Vice President of Student Affairs and Enrollment Management at Lincoln University, and Julie Browning, the Dean for Undergraduate Enrollment at
Rice University. On-campus interviews were held for each earlier this month.

Lake Forest COMMUNITY CHURCH

704.895.7405

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2005

EVENTS!

While you are gaining ‘mad skills’ for your life’s vocation this semester (pardon the gratuitous Napoleon Dynamite reference), we want
to cheer you on toward growth as a whole person. Along with other wonderful

photo by Jessica Hodge

Above: Dean of Admission Chris Gruber talks to Admissions Senior Fellow Jordie Poncy ’06.

Below: Psychology professor Julio Ramirez served on the search committee.

photo courtesy of College Communications

Lake Norman

Concord Road
We Meet Here
Lake Norman YMCA

Old Statesville Road

Discover
