WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2005

Dance avoided SEE PAGE 2

ROTC guy clearly showing off uniform See Page 5

Davidson adds new level of online Facebook security See Page 8

Freshman girl still too cool to talk to anyone See Page 9

Low mortgage rates touted See Page 10

Problems hit the stage last Thursday for the RSC when two of their actors were not available for that evening’s performance of Julius Caesar. Their understudies took the roles and the play went on relatively unhindered, albeit with some disappointment from the audience at missing the anticipated Marullus and Cassius.

PiKA party leads to RSC no-shows

Moreover, the two actors received citations from the Davidson College Residential Life Organization for having open containers of alcohol in public. Oddly enough, the English actors drank Australian beer Fosters. They did not leave until after the show, washed off their makeup, and left the nightly 900 Room party to get a taste of campus social life. Pi Kappa Alpha was the first fraternity on the brick path, so they stopped in on a Wednesday night party.

CAMPUS VOICES

Joe “Big Dawg” Biggs Davidson Football #66

Some of you may have noticed the plans for the renovations that they put up in Commons. I think they’re trying to impress us or something, but let me, Joe “Big Dawg” Biggs, tell you that the plans suck. If they had asked the football team how to design it, then we would have the best damn cafeteria in the world. But they hired some nerd, who designed it for the dorks at Davidson who don’t even need protein at their Commons meals and probably can’t even squat 200 on their max. The first thing I noticed is that they got rid of the football table. Now, I know you all read my first essay or whatever, but if you were too dumb to read it then let me repeat: the football table is for football players. Use your brains, Commons designers. If you get rid of the football table, then where is the football team going to sit? I'll tell you what, we're sure as hell not going to sit at some table on the other side of Commons away from the food. After our hard practices, I’m not going to want to walk all across Commons just to get the food that I need.

My design for Commons: notice the placement of the TV.

How about they just do whatever they want to the rest of Commons, but leave the football table where it is. Heck, I don’t care if they paint the whole place pink, as long as they leave our table like it is now and don’t do anything stupid to ruin it like they want to. Also, maybe they can move the television to the end of the football table, so we can watch our competition on “SportsCenter.” While I was coming up with that plan, I also thought of some other things they should do in the renovations. One good idea is to make a serving station just for meat. If I know that I need to load up on protein, then I don’t want to have to look through a bunch of steamed cauliflower or something to get my meat that I need. It would also be good if they had special student-athlete lines so we could get our food first, because we need it a lot more. Here’s another tip: make a Powerade station. Then we wouldn’t have to wait behind some out-of-shape dork getting a Coke to fill up with the blue Powerade. If they really want to be smart, they could make it so that only athletes can go to the Powerade station on the honor code or something. Or, maybe they can just make it that you need to wear your football sweatshirt to use the machine. And, they could use new employees. I want them to look into hiring the waitresses from Vinnie’s. That little change would make Commons a whole lot better. Speaking of hot chicks, since we have the football table and the baseball table, we should have a hot chick table. I’m sure the hot girls would like it, because if I were a hot chick, I’d find it disgusting to watch some ugly girl stuff her mouth with corn dogs. Plus, sitting the hot girls together would remove the temptation to eat too much or visit the ice cream machine. I’m a Sociology major, so I know all about peer pressure and temptations. That brings me to my next point: if you're not a football player, then stay the hell out of right field. It’s fine if a couple non-athlete Phi Delts or some hot chicks are out there, but it really gets me pissed when there’s some dork drinking our beer who probably doesn’t even know the difference between shortstop and center field. If we wanted to watch the baseball games with dorks, then we'd sit in the stands.

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Whatever: Nathan Bradshaw

Editor: Brendan Parets

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editor at brparets@davidson.edu

Note: If you haven't been living in a cave for the past year, then you should know that the Yowl is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.I’m going to write, because there’s a “Dice Man” special coming on that I want to watch. One after spring break. Everyone who usually comes from other houses was off working, and the freshmen were only here because of pledging.” Another brother agreed that, after the first two or three drinks, Thompson and Charles became the center of attention. “First of all, British accents get a party started in a hurry. Hearing some foreign voices laughing drew a bunch of chicks in and somebody put on the music, and the next thing we knew there was the best party of the semester,” according to Brian Bradley '07. With the party going, the guests reportedly decided that it would not end until nobody remained at the house. While they admit to having been forced to spend the night on the couch at two different Martin Court apartments Wednesday night, Thompson and Charles otherwise declined to comment on the situation. Said Peter Cranz ’06, “I'll tell you what, those Brits can flat out drink. At first, I was confused seeing all these European-looking guys around who definitely didn’t go here, but when I found out that they were the RSC actors, I just wanted to talk to them and hear their crazy party stories. They’re legendary, I mean, they have those parties every night in the 900 Room and empty the taps.” Jane Denton, the actress playing Calpurnia, claimed that while many of the cast members may be heavy drinkers, they had never let it interfere with their acting duties until this time. “The two of them weren't at breakfast Thursday morning, which was unusual but hardly a concern. Then they still weren’t at lunch, so I called both their mobiles and got only monosyllables in response. When they finally stumbled in together, they were still wearing clothes from the night before and looked exhausted.” Other company members agreed with this description. One member, who wished to remain anonymous, claims that he overheard Charles on his phone having the following conversation: “Another party? Tonight? Oh, I don’t think we can, we’ve got a show to do. Well, I understand you're blowing off psych but, yes, well, all right, we'll be there, but keep it quiet, I’m supposed to be working.” About 40 minutes before showtime, director Althea Vincent-Hughes received a phone call from Thompson effectively informing her that the two actors were “unavailable” for the performance. Cast members from “Two Gentlemen of Verona” made a hasty search of the Davidson campus, but when one finally found Charles and Thompson, each with a case of Milwaukee's Best Light in their arms, they were apparently not receptive to the idea of returning to the play and so continued down to the senior apartments.

The Davidsonian Study: cable in dorms ameliorates searing pain of Davidson life

According to a recent study by the Davidson College Psychology Department, the addition of cable to dorm rooms has increased student satisfaction by taking students’ minds off the misery of their Davidson lives. Said Associate Professor of Psychology Chris Meetcher, “Through our use of a student survey and with interviews, we found that students use the cable to enjoy some sort of mindless entertainment to forget the personal hells that are their lives at Davidson College.” He continued, “At many schools, the exciting social scene, nearby city, or cultural events provide a release from the pressures of academic work. Unfortunately for Davidson students, there is nothing to offset their enormous workload. Thus, television becomes the means for escape from their miserable existence.” Many students echoed Meetcher's sentiments. Said Perry Markintosh ‘06, “Before we had cable, I used to just sit in my room and mope because I was so unhappy. But now, for 30 minutes a day, I can watch ‘The Real World’ and pretend that I’m somewhere else fun, like Arizona State.” Lisa Siragusa '08 agreed, “The hour of ‘The OC’ gets me through my week. Watching beautiful people like Seth Cohen reminds me that not everyone is a cretin like the boys at Davidson. Plus, for just a little bit, I can even forget that I probably have three 15-page papers due the next day.” Added Evan Crest '07, “Sometimes I'll watch the Food Network and pretend that I’m eating good food rather than Beefaroni from Commons. Or, I'll watch some cryfest on Lifetime or coverage of the Iraq war, to remind myself that it could be worse.” Also popular among students are the E! Network, for watching exciting parties, MTV’s “Pimp my Ride,” and ESPN, for watching other colleges’ sports teams. Many in the administration are extremely happy with the results of the survey. Said Dean of Students Kenny David, “This survey proves that cable in the dorms is working as advertised. Now that students have a legitimate outlet for relieving their stress at Davidson, there should be a decrease in drinking alone in the dorm rooms, crying in the Union, running on the cross country trails, and pleasure reading. I cannot imagine that any parent in his or her right mind could be displeased with the introduction of cable in dorm rooms.” Some students are unhappy about the installation of cable. Said Sherie Anatolia ’07, “My damn roommate is always watching some crappy show when I’m trying to work. If I have to see another ‘Judging Amy’ I think I might crack.” The reliance on cable has also led to some problems. For one, the nature of the cable set-up, a satellite feed, is notoriously unpredictable, and can go out at any time, especially in inclement weather. Remarked Lionel Smith ’06, “One time it was raining and the cable went out. After the initial confusion, I just sat on my bed for 30 minutes crying about how much work I had to do for that week. In the past, I’d go socialize with my friends or something, but at this point, I’m just too dependent on television to do anything else.”