THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2005. 7

MECCA to focus more on Middle Eastern Culture
By Katie HUNTER
Senior Staff Writer

Millions of Muslims unite each year in Mecca, the holiest city in Islam, to fulfill one of the major pillars of their faith at the birthplace of the Prophet Muhammed. Davidson’s Middle Eastern Cross Cultural Association, or MECCA for short, hopes also to be a site of unification, a place of clarity and awareness on a region of the world so often misunderstood.

Founded last fall by David Jemison ’05, the club’s original goal was to “involve the Davidson community with the Middle East and its culture,” according to club President Nabil Ismail ’08. This year, Ismail says, the club plans to work towards that goal by holding various events, including a large festival, to “ensure MECCA receives attention and increases the number of its members, and to bring community awareness to the Middle East.”

MECCA held its first meeting last Thursday in the Union, dishing up some other plans and ideas for the upcoming year alongside plates of tasty pitas and hummus. Like any regionally based club on campus, the organization boasts much diversity.

‘Everything In Transit’: a worthwhile transitional album
By MIKE WELLMAN
Staff Writer

Jack’s Mannequin, the pet project of Something Corporate’s singer/songwriter Andrew McMahon, offers an energetic, personal, and melodic debut album that astounds with great piano rock, intelligent lyrics, and a new flavor that fans of SoCo and new listeners are sure to enjoy. With a California vibe, Motley Crue’s Tommy Lee providing support on the drums, and inspiration drawn from the Beach Boys, the album is a departure from McMahon’s previous sound, though the new group’s roots are recognizably Something Corporate’s sound.

The album begins with the sounds of seagulls and the catchy, upbeat song “Holiday From Real” about carefree life in California. The next song drives the listener into the story of an ending relationship with “The Mixed Tape” that is continued through the album. The most impressive song on the album, “The Mixed Tape” expresses loneliness and desperation, saying “Where are you now?/ As I’m swimming through this stereo/ I’m writing you a symphony of sound.”

These songs are followed with heart-ripping tracks “Bruised”, “I’m Ready”, and “La, La, Lie” which all use McMahon’s beautiful piano melodies and lyrics that in “La, La, Lie” show readiness to move on, though in the next track “Dark Blue”, he expresses frustration and loneliness saying “Dark blue (dark blue)/ Have you ever been alone in a crowded room/ when I’m here with you/ I said the world could be burning now there’s nothing but dark blue.”

The album progresses in the second half with the poppy “Miss Delaney” and “Kill the Messenger,” moving from an angst-driven poppy song to a moving ballad which makes particularly good use of the drums to propel the song forward. “Rescued” follows with a slower ballad in which McMahon sings about letting go. Following this song is “MFEO 1: Made For Each Other Pt. 1”, which starts playfully and finishes with the second half “You Can Breathe,” presenting a more inspirational tune that brings the singer back into a state of peace.

Following this song is the excellent “Into the Airwaves,” which declares “I am slipping into the airwaves/ The static’s where you’ll find me/ This is nothing new.” Music seems to be the healing process for McMahon in “Everything in Transit,” and the amount of care that goes into the album is evident. If interested, the enhanced version of the CD offers the track “Lonely for Her”, a slower, sadder, but still pretty melodious song.

“Everything in Transit” is a relatively excellent album, with only a couple of songs that miss their intended mark. Something Corporate fans will not be disappointed by the change in sound, and new listeners will be pleasantly surprised by the unique flavor of piano rock and McMahon’s voice. New listeners should check out “The Mixed Tape” and “Into the Airwaves” to check out what the album entails. In short, it is a chill, fun and complete album that will please most of those who are curious enough to try it.

The New Kids on the Block: Rob Mark, Mona Shaban, Megal Atias, and Nabil Ismail, all class of ‘08, are MECCA members.Among its members, who range from Lebanese, Israeli, and Arabic students to those with no related heritage but a strong desire to learn more about the Middle East. Throughout the first semester, MECCA hopes to hold talks between members about Middle-Eastern related topics, like the Iraqi constitution and Palestine-Israeli conflict, called “Shy discussions, don’t be Shy.” “The irony in this phrase is that in Arabic, the pronunciation of ‘shy’ stands for tea,” says Ismail. MECCA does not rely just on clever phrasing to draw attention—next semester, the club hopes to both bring lecturers on the Middle East to campus and provide guidance for students interested in studying abroad in the region. MECCA also intends to “focus more on cultural aspects of the Middle East this year rather than just on regional politics,” states club President Mona Shaban ’08. “We plan to get an Arabic catering company for the festival, and also to teach people an Arabic dance called the debke,” she says excitedly. Shaban, who is Lebanese, wishes to “get people’s focus off of the violence that they see on the news and more onto the cultural aspects of the Middle East.” “I want people to see what I see when I look at the Middle East, which is the fun and lively nature of the region,” she states. Ismail, himself from the Middle East, also hopes to use his office to enable the club to “clarify misconceptions and make people aware of the region.” With all the activities MECCA has planned, that should not be too difficult to do.

Lend local opera your ear
By SARAH ROBINSON
Senior Staff Writer

Opera suffers from a lack of popularity among the younger generation because of its “expensive” tickets, and often the misunderstanding that it will be impossible to understand what is going on. For the former, opera has long been seen as entertainment for the upper class. Historically, this is true, but as we move into the twenty-first century more people are able to attend. With Opera Carolina, students can buy tickets at any time for ten percent off regular price. If you show up right before the show, you can buy them for ten dollars. As a result of new technologies, the latter objection becomes inconsequential as projected titles translate operas and are available for all productions at most companies, including Opera Carolina.

Think about it; music that has lasted for several generations is being performed regularly around the world. Composers, such as Tchaikovsky, who some believe became popular for “The Nutcracker” and “1812 Overture,” are more well-known in their native countries for operatic masterpieces which many have never heard. Why the taboo? My theory—operas focus on the music and singers. A soloist can spend five minutes saying that he is in love. While some believe this routine to be tedious, these arias demonstrate the different developments composers use to show emotions, bringing a deeper meaning to the characters, as well as drawing the viewer into the world of opera and music. And, to cite a fictional source, you don’t have to understand all the words to know that it’s beautiful. Julia Roberts in “Pretty Woman” falls in love with opera almost as fast as she does with Richard Gere.

In Charlotte, Opera Carolina has a great season set up for the year. First, Bizet’s “The Pearl Fishers” is coming in mid-October. The opera premiered in 1863 and is a story of two men who love the same woman who has become a priestess (does “Keeping the Faith” sound familiar?). The opera opens with a well-paced chorus of celebration, and there is a great duet in the first act between the two men during which they pledge their friendship. Later, the battle between duty and passion pushes the plot further. Further into the season, Menotti’s “Amahl & the Night Visitors,” the first opera produced for television, will tell the story of Christmas from a different perspective. In the spring there will be Verdi’s “La Traviata” and Rossini’s “Cinderella.”

So, I only want to ask those who have never tried to see an opera to give it a chance. You can fall in love within two seconds, or you can respect the intricacy of the composer’s writing. See the characters express passion, pain, and commitment, as they perform years after the original production, in new ways that reflect the changes in theater and society. Just give it a chance. More information, touched on here, can be found on www.operacarolina.org.