THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31, 2005 13

Fall Sports Preview
By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

Between settling in and going out, Davidson students and fans should make some time for the brand new athletic season. An exciting mix of first-year athletes and returning players will make this fall unlike any other on the court, field, and course.

° Cross Country
We start with men’s and women’s cross country. Four senior women and two senior men lead these teams, both of which boast a great deal of young talent. The women’s team looks to their five sophomores as much as to their seniors for leadership, particularly Brittany Crawford ’08 and Brenna Burns ’08, who often switched between second and third positions on the Davidson team last season, and Annie O’Donnell ’08, who brought in the No. 3 at the NCAA Regional Championship in 2004. In addition, they will welcome six first-year athletes to their ranks. On the men’s side, Jonathan Baker ’06 and Austin Mercadante ’06, the top two runners for the Wildcats last year, hope to lead a host of young runners to victory. Andrew Hazen ’07, returning from last year’s injuries, and Douglas Noreen ’07 will look to continue last year’s dramatic improvements.

° Men’s Soccer
On the field, men’s soccer anticipates continuing the success they have enjoyed over the last three years with their third consecutive Southern Conference title game and a return to the NCAA tournament from 2003. Leading the way for the ’Cats are seven seniors who have been critical in the growth and success of the program since their arrival: Nahum Navas ’06 and co-captain John Latting ’06 lead the powerful Wildcat defense, while Will Carroll ’06 will assist from defensive midfield. The senior corps will try to create more shutouts on top of the 21 they have accumulated in their four years. Critical in that effort will be goalkeepers Jordan Hauser ’06 and Ben Ashton ’08, whom coach Matt Spear anticipates will compete for the position. Both men saw their share of net time last year behind Bart Creasman ’05. The midfield is full of returnees, including co-captain David Sartorio ’07, Cass Baltz ’07, Marco Antunez ’07, and Mac Wilkie ’07, who led both in goals and assists last year from the midfield. At the forward position, Jeff Davis ’06 and Matt Allen ’06 will return to work with Robby Hoak ’08 and Tom Lavan ’08. Davis, who spent much of last year injured, should have a huge returning impact on the team’s offensive abilities. The Wildcats’ schedule will test the team, beginning with three tournaments and continuing with tough SoCon opponents and matches against Wake Forest, Virginia Tech, and UNC-Charlotte.

° Women’s Soccer
Women’s soccer, now 1-1, will also face a tough schedule, including No. 21 Duke, and North Carolina this weekend. 2004 Southern Conference Coach of the Year Greg Ashton said that one of the team’s biggest goals for the year is to “become a more consistent team.” Most of last year’s players have returned to lead the nine freshmen joining the Wildcat team. Ashton feels confident in the improvement of the defense, led by Brittany Eddy ’06, Robin French ’07, Kara Hawkesworth ’07, and Cameron Hardesty ’07. Several new players will join the veteran defensive squad to keep opposing players away from the net and to assist goalkeepers Bevin English ’08, who saw most of the game time so far this season, and Laura Schulenborg ’06. Offense thus far has fallen on the shoulders of co-captains Kara Koehrn ’06 and Cady Blackey ’06, as well as Kristen Koehrn ’08, who offers a dangerous versatility on both sides of the field.

° Volleyball
Like women’s soccer, volleyball returns this season with almost all of the previous squad intact. Led by captains Erin Balak ’06 and Jenna Dykstra ’07, theWildcats are picked to finish fifth in the SoCon by a coaches’ poll. Though the loss of defensive specialist Tam Gallen ’05 is going to be tough to counteract, coach Tim Cowie has brought in a class of seven freshmen, each of whom he praised highly before the season. Dykstra and Liz Williamson ’07 have also been named as preseason all-conference players, tying Davidson for second in number of all-conference selections before the 2005 season. For Dykstra, this is the second consecutive all-conference selection. Last year she led the ’Cats in assists and was third in the SoCon, with an average of 11.49 assists per game. Williamson led the team in both kills and blocks, ranking second in the SoCon in kills with 4.2 per game. With teammates like Katie Pierucci ’08, who brings the best returning offensive percentage for number of attempts, and Balak, who will take over the position of defensive specialist, the roster fills out with great promise. Important matches will take place against the College of Charleston, picked to be the best in the SoCon, on October 8 at home and on November 5 in Charleston, and the second-to-last match of the season at home against Furman on November 11. Furman finished just ahead of Davidson in the preseason polls, and that game is only a week before the conference tournament; it is sure to be critical in deciding tournament rankings.

Early in the season, Cowie has slotted three tournaments for the Wildcats, one of which will be hosted by Davidson. This weekend, from September 1-3, the ’Cats travel to Oregon for the Nike Portland Invitational. The following weekend is the Mizuno Wildcat Classic, featuring Duquesne, Howard, ETSU, and Davidson. The tournament tour ends September 16 and 17 in Charlotte for the SpringHill Suites Classic.

Football
The football team has a new look this year, not only with the almost-finished stadium that promises to be an additional draw to home games, but with a new head coach. Former assistant Tripp Merritt has taken over the reins of the team, rising from the positions of defensive and recruiting coordinator. Alex Arinsmier ’06, Ricky Childers ’06, and Jonathan Hubbard ’07 are team captains this year. Three sophomores and a freshman are in the running for starting quarterback, including seven-game starter from last year Beaux Jones ’08. Hubbard, who ran the ball less frequently than did last year’s star John Leverett ’05, will now lead the rushing game with more intent to batter down the defense, but the capacity for great speed. Due to injuries, most of the defensive line saw little game time last year, and there are only seven players listed for the defensive line positions. “With the constant contact the defensive line gets, I am very concerned about our depth,” Merritt said. Merritt anticipates possibly calling in other team members to play the line if injuries prove to be problematic again. Davidson football will take on VMI away this Saturday and Greensboro College on September 10.

Field Hockey
Field hockey has begun its fall season with a double-overtime victory against Rider last Saturday. Co-captain Molly Blackman ’06 leads the midfield, and Eleanor Cowley ’08 should continue to have a strong impact. On defense, Jen Willis ’08 is the critical returnee, leading the Cats in the back.