The Davidsonian @ “THE SOUTH’S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @ FIRST CLASS U.S. POSTAGE PAID | PERMIT #1 DAVIDSON, NC DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2005 VOLUME 96, NUMBER 23

Genocide survivor advocates action
Nearly 1,000 listen to ‘Hotel Rwanda’ hero’s recollection
By AMEE PATEL
Editor-in-Chief

Twenty minutes before Paul Rusesabagina, the real-life hero of the acclaimed film “Hotel Rwanda” was to speak last Sunday night, hundreds of students, faculty, and community members still waited in line outside Duke Family Performance Hall. The theater was full to capacity and the College was working on getting a live simulcast in the 900 Room. Nearly 200 people sneaked into the theater anyway, standing or sitting on the floor as Rusesabagina told his inspirational story of survival and heroism in the face of overwhelming complacency and horrific violence during the Rwandan genocide in 1994. The lecture, entitled “Hotel Shestak ’07 played an active role in bringing Rusesabagina to speak. 1,000 people to the 900 Room and Duke Sunday night. Family Performance Hall The event was organized by Nate Batten prof passes away unexpectedly In short time, Hauser left a lasting legacy with students By BRANDON CARROLL AND AMEE PATEL Editors-in-Chief For such a low-key man, his presence will be sorely missed on campus. Batten Professor of Public Policy Charles “Chuck” McCorkle Hauser passed away unexpectedly late Sunday night in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 76 years old. An on-campus memorial was being planned for next week. The date, time, and format of the service were still in the planning stages. Hauser had been teaching the courses “Journalism and Media Law” and “Journalism Ethics” this semester. 2005 Batten Professor Chuck Hauser died Sunday. willing to stand up for what he believed was right, no matter what. I regret that I only knew him for such a short time, but I am happy knowing that his examples of honor will not be forgotten.” Some others related that they had taken away lessons about more than just journalism from Professor Hauser. Jeff Hamilton ’05 said, “I came into Professor Hauser’s journalism class not really knowing what to expect. What I found was a genuinely sincere Financial effect of resignations yet to be seen By Liz BARRY News Editor The Board of Trustee’s decision to allow non-Christians on the board and the publicity surrounding the resignations of John Belk ’43 and Steve B. Smith ’66 has prompted 63 alumni and parents to contact the College Relations Office to express their reactions to the change. Of the 63 people who contacted the office, 37 have shared negative comments and indicated that they will be reducing or withdrawing their funds. The other 26 people articulated support for the change, offering continued and, in some cases, increased support to the College. Because the College has more than 17,000 alumni, VP for College Relations Kristin Bradberry said it is difficult to determine whether the board’s decision will have an impact on future fundraising. complacency and horrific violence during the Rwandan genocide in 1994. The lecture, entitled “Hotel Shestak ’07 and a group of students seeking U.S. action to end genocide in Darfur, the western region of Sudan. According to a recent CNN report, man who cared for each student individually and had a desire to spark in each of us the same passion that he had for journalism. President Bobby Vagt emphasized that the process and decision regarding the Board of Trustee reli- Tony Kim ’08, aStudent in the Journalism Ethics seminar, said, “Professor Charles Hauser was Rwanda: A Lesson Yet to be Learned,” drew an estimated ‘Viva il papa’ Students reach Vatican in time for election of Pope By ADAM MARTIN AND WES COBB News Editor Emeritus and Guest Contributor ST. PETER’S SQUARE, Vatican City—Two Davidson College students on the Classics study abroad program report their first-hand experiences Tuesday witnessing the announcement of Benedict XVI as successor to Pope John Paul II. “Following a priest through the Vatican bus station, we ran into the already-packed St. Peter’s Square. The white smoke had already vanished into See Pope, page 3 Students react to trustee resignations see PERSPECTIVES, PAGES 11 over 200,000 civilians have been See Darfur, page 4 not only a great teacher, but a man of great integrity. He was See Hauser, page 4 SAEs show appreciation for brother’s service in Iraq Frat raises money for Fallen Heroes Fund By LAUREN CONN Staff Writer Charles Waldron ’02 witnessed the deaths of two of his Army friends in Iraq on March 7. To show their appreciation for Waldron’s time in the Army and to assist the families of those killed on March 7, the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, of which Waldron is a brother, is conducting fundraising efforts to benefit the Fallen Heroes Fund. Waldron, affectionately known as “Waldo,” is stationed in the “hot” area of Ramadi, Iraq. While conducting a checkpoint in Ramadi on March 7, a car bomb detonated, instantly killing Sgt. Andrew L. Bossert, 24, of Fountain City, WI, and Pfc. Michael W. Franklin, 22, of Coudersport, PA. “Waldron was hit with flying debris from 50 yards away,” said friend and classmate Mathew Arbuckle ’02 after hearing from Waldron via e-mail two weeks after the event. The class of 2002 has been asked to donate to The Fallen Heroes Fund. Arbuckle and the current SAEs also intend to contact businesses and alumni to accumulate more donations. “We want other houses to get involved in our project,” said SAE President Dave McManama ’06. “Arbuckle has passed on Waldo’s e-mails to our house and we are looking forward to doing as much as we can to let him know we appreciate his service,” McManama said. See Waldron, page 5 Charles Waldron ’02 A&L: Slam poetry finds its way with words Religion requirement was never about money. “Because of John [Belk’s] resignation the issue has morphed into a money issue. I think that demeans the board and its sense of deliberation.” Belk is the largest individual donor in the history of Davidson College, with a lifetime giving total of $31.3 million. He resigned from the Board of Trustees because he disagreed with the decision to allow non-Christians on the board. Despite his resignation, Belk will continue to honor the $28 million pledged to the Belk Scholars program, which offers comprehensive scholarships to 10 exceptional applicants each year. “I’m still in favor of the students and my money will continue to go towards the student body, but not toward other causes,” Belk said when asked about future contributions in last week’s Davidsonian article. Belk could not be reached for further comment this week because he is out of the country. See Board, page 5 SEE PAGE 6 Is Davidson Athletics underfunded? see SPORTS, PAGE 12 The future of The Davidsonian this ‘student’ publication? see YOWL, PAGE 9