THE DAVIDSONIAN

New members of Rusk enjoy Court Selection festivities last weekend.

Algorithms on the Court

New Selection system praised as ‘smooth and successful’

By BEN WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

The newest wave of fraternity pledges and eating house members took to Patterson Court last weekend for court selection. Behind
the parties and rituals was an advanced mathematical algorithm that successfully placed 141 of 157 girls in their first choice
eating houses.

The algorithm did not give any girls their fourth choice for the second year in a row.

“We are really pleased that we have been able to make court selection a smooth and successful process for everybody,”
said Professor of Mathematics Laurie Heyer, who was called to implement the system last year.

RLO praised the system for its effectiveness in leveling out the uneven eating house population.

“We originally anticipated the new system to take four or more years to even out the eating houses, but it
has only taken two,” said Patterson Court Advisor Joy Hamm.

Connor Eating House raked in 44 girls through the algorithm.

“This weekend was extremely successful for Connor House,” said Connor President Amanda King ’06. “On Friday night we had a
welcoming party and enjoyed mingling with the boys who kept running through. The girls were great sports.”

Due to the algorithm’s readjustment of court populations, Warner Hall only took in 25 freshmen girls this year.

“Obviously, I wish we could have had more, but I guess it will even out next year,” said Warner Hall
president Alice Neumann ’06. “I am sure it will eventually work out.”

Despite fielding the smallest number of girls, the algorithm was not bad for Warner.

“In a way it is a good thing since just about all our girls had listed us as their top
choice,” said Neumann.

The majority of freshmen girls received placement in their top choice.

“A whole bunch of girls on my hall got into the same house,” said Molly Valentine ’08.

The minority of girls who were placed outside their first choice assignments did not necessarily regret their placement.

With the algorithm’s second successful year, it appears to be a permanent fixture in the court selection process.

Members of the eating houses reported that Friday night parties ran well for the most part.

“Things went really smoothly,” said Neumann of Warner’s party, “which is really lucky, since it is so crazy.”

Connor House blew out its sound system but reported no other major problems.

Davidson’s fraternities also held ceremonies and gatherings for their pledges.

The Davidson chapter of Phi Gamma Delta (FIJI) took its pledges to an off-campus gathering at a brother’s farm.

Current members described their treatment of pledges as hospitable, mentioning flag football and a cookout.

“We see pledges as new brothers, and we treat them as we would expect brothers to treat us,” said Ned
Reddrop ’07, a member of FIJI.

“Pledging is really just a series of events where we bond,” said Rob Stewart ’07, another member of FIJI.

Get involved.

Photographers and cartoonists needed.

Email davidsonian@davidson.edu

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2005

All Students, Faculty, and Staff receive 20% off with CatCard!

Free Delivery!

& pizzeria
