Freshman upset he can no longer do homework on bus. See Page 8.
Black Eyed Peas to play fall concert again. See Page 9.
John Belk: “Just kidding.” See Page 12.

UBI ORTA HUMOR UBERTAS
DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER | read it for the articles

Vail Commons underwent extensive renovations this summer, greatly modifying not only the aesthetic layout of the cafeteria, but also its method for serving food. With the old layout, students chose from one of two lines and could get everything from their entrée to dessert, including drinks, in one trip through the line. The new layout, however, involves visits to many smaller lines in order to get the same complete meal. For instance, there are now separate lines for not just the salad bar and sandwich line, but also for getting some drinks, a few desserts, a burger and fries from the grill, the main course and accompanying vegetables, or a personal pizza. Perhaps the most interesting of the new lines to wait in is the “Chef du jour” station, which features a new chef each day, cooking the same stir fry.

The renovations have been highly publicized by Dining Services, as they have even set up handy maps to help navigate the sometimes confusing new layout. What has not been as highly publicized are their reasons behind the renovations and subsequent reformatting. While one motivation was certainly to create a brighter, more energetic mood in the Commons, Dining Services also sought to reduce food costs by subconsciously limiting student food consumption. After reporting in the red the last two fiscal years, Dining Services needed a new cost-cutting method. By making different foods more spread out and less convenient to pick up, Dining Services theorized that student consumption would drop, thus saving the dining hall money on every meal.

“All that remained after we...

Friday Night E-mail

Guy, this new alcohol policy is completely ridiculous. It is like a half-retarded alien mule. I just got thrown out of Pika for not doing anything. Bike cop was like, "What's your name?" and I was like, "BIKE COP," and he said I had to leave because he is ridiculous. He asked me where my shirt was and I told him I lost it when I was wrestling the risk manager. I wouldn’t have a problem if I wasn’t just being too sweet for everyone at the party, but I was, and I was just like, "WHAT WHAT COME ON," and he made me pour out my fifth and then I threw up on his pants. If I was on TiVo, I would never delete that scene. TiVo is in the spirit of snails. Apparently, the new policy rule is no fun for anyone because that was what he was enforcing, and he picked out the most fun guy at the party and made him leave, obviously reducing the overall fun quotient of the atmosphere. Then the risk manager said, "You can't go in the basement," and so I had to wrestle him, but you can't wrestle with a shirt, so I took it off. He didn’t know the rules, so he left his shirt on, but he said that I broke his glasses, and I told him that's because they were in front of his face and I meant to break his face. If breaking faces is against the alcohol policy, then I am definitely in violation because I am a face breaker. We went to F and there was a party there, and I put down my CatCard on the Beirut table, and these guys thought they were ahead of us, but they weren’t. I saw them just come in and they didn’t even have CatCards on the table. Why isn’t that in the alcohol policy? No spots on the table if your CatCard isn’t there, or a letter home to your parents about how unsweet you are, and a 25 dollar fine. The cops broke up that party and said that they weren’t registered and that there...

THE YOWL
Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Editors: Bobby Kenner and Jeff Yeakel
Writer: Nathan Bradshaw

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editors at bokenner@davidson.edu or jeyeakel@davidson.edu.

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.and wrote me up. There were too many people there, and one wrote me up for no reason. He made me give his gun back. I wasn't even going to give him my real name this time, but he saw my cat card on the Beirut table. I was only one game away from playing too. The new alcohol policy should just say, "Be as lame as you can beeeeeeeeeeeceeece."

S.A.D. Member

As one of the few members of S.A.D. (Students Against Drinking) on this campus, I feel it is my obligation to highlight some of the problems still inherent with our Alcohol Policy, despite its recent revisions. The biggest revision revolved around the policy on drinking games. While it is admirable that the police are finally making more of an effort to combat these reckless practices, the policy is still not strict enough. While underage students participating in the games get double the fine, there is no mention of the penalty for underage students watching or taking notes on the games. As Plato said, “Knowledge is power,” and when underage students are allowed to observe drinking games, it is not only a bad influence on them, but some might also learn the rules of the games themselves. They could then drive off-campus, where there is not a doubled fine for drinking games, and play there. And that’s another point: it is still legal for students over 21 to participate in these games and be subjected to their destructive consequences.

Let’s think about something for a minute. Underage students would only have the opportunity to play drinking games when of-age students bought the alcohol for the games. Therefore, in order to combat underage drinking, we must do away with legal drinking as well. Eliminating drinking games entirely would be one step in the right direction.

Another revision to the policy involves stickers for students who are legally allowed to drink. The problem here is obvious though: who are the people that have the most access to stickers? That’s right, kids. And if there’s anyone we're trying to protect with alcohol policies, it’s kids. So before we go around praising this new policy as the perfect solution to Davidson’s alcohol problem, I suggest we take a look at even more steps that can be taken to rid the campus of alcoholic beverages.

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31, 2005

"thought up that genius idea,” said Dining Services employee Gina Underwood, “was finding a source of revenue for the upfront costs of renovating. So, we decided to raise the cost of dinner by one dollar.” One week into the school year, it already seems to be working. In addition to the first-week numbers reported by Dining Services, which project decreased expenditure on food already by twofold, students have testified to the effects the new setup has on their eating habits. John Henson ’07 said, “I no longer get a side pizza with my meal because they make you wait in line for it, whereas before you could just fill out that slip and then go back and eat with your friends while you waited for it.” Varsity football player Joe Biggs ’06 reported, “There was no blue Powerade the entire first week. I cut back from my usual eight glasses with dinner to only five because the lemon-lime flavor just doesn’t taste as good.” Another student, Jill Waters ’08, said, “I’m afraid to get dessert this year since you have to walk all the way to the far side of the cafeteria to get some, and then during your long walk back to your table everyone can stare at you with a plate full of cookies and cake, and judge.”

Despite the fact that Commons is averaging 50 more students per meal this semester, they have still been able to cut costs. This has been so successful that they are considering applying a similar technique to the renovations of the Union Cafe next summer. The drink machines will be moved downstairs to the Bookstore, while the Oven will be relocated to the nearby Duke Family Performance Hall. Incidentally, the candy rack will be moved to the Post Office and thus will be closed after 4 p.m.

This Week in Davidson History

1874 - Woodrow Wilson gets first alcohol citation
2003 - Health Center warns that “Dosa Filosa” may cause brain hemorrhaging