8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2005

February: the new October? Hollywood thinks so

By ALANA VAUGHN
Staff Writer

With all of the recent releases of horror films and thrillers, one might come to ask, “Is February becoming the
new October?”

At the moment, for every 16-screen cinema, there are four “scary” movies showing. What happened to all of those gushy
Valentine’s Day-inspired chick flicks that we’ve come to expect to raid the theatres during this month of romance?

Instead, we are bombarded by the seemingly redundant trailers for the newest horror films to hit the silver screens. With
four horror films currently in theatres and two more to come in the next few weeks in February, it’s no
wonder people are still going to see “Meet the Fockers” even after six weeks in the box office.

But before we rant too much about the sudden flood of horror films, let’s take a look at what they
are all about.

“White Noise,” which hit theatres Jan. 7, stars Michael Keaton as a successful architect (Jonathan Rivers) whose life is shattered
when his wife (Chandra West) unexpectedly disappears and dies. Rivers is then contacted by a man who claims that he
is receiving messages from Rivers’s wife via a technology in which the dead can communicate with the living through electronic
recording devices.

In “Hide and Seek,” which premiered Jan. 28, young Emily Calloway (Dakota Fanning, “Uptown Girls”) plays hide-and-seek with her imaginary
friend Charlie, until things start getting out of control.

Also out in theatres Jan. 28 was the film adaptation of a popular video game, “Alone in the Dark.” An
otherworldly detective, Edward Carnby (Christian Slater), discovers the secrets of an ancient tribe that worshiped demonic forces and gained incredible
powers.

“Boogeyman,” the most recent horror flick to hit theatres, is about Tim (Barry Watson), who believes that since he witnessed
his father being snatched up from his bedroom by a monstrous entity as a child, the same fate will befall
him.

If these four movies don’t fill your horror flick quota for the month, you can have your pick of two
more films that hit theatres later this month. “Constantine,” starring Keanu Reeves, comes out Feb. 18, and “Cursed,” starring Christina
Ricci, is released on Feb. 25.

In none of these plots, however, do we find any sort of romantic interlude that have become so common among
the pre-Valentine’s Day box office hits.

Some men may be thrilled that there are no chick flicks for their girlfriends to drag them out to. Some
women may be angry that they don’t have some sappy romantic comedy that they can torment their boyfriends with. Regardless,
that’s what they have to choose from.

When trying to hypothesize as to why so many of these films are out right now, I came up with
a few ideas that may or may not have any credence whatsoever.

First, I thought there might be some sort of conspiracy of male filmmakers and their buddies who are trying to
turn Valentine’s Day into Halloween (or just reveal some underlying truth about Valentine’s Day).

Or maybe the whole deal behind releasing all of these scary movies now is about profits.

On a more optimistic note, maybe they just thought that scary movies would bring couples closer together.

What’s cozier or more romantic than your girlfriend (or boyfriend) clenching onto your arm for dear life as you watch
some psychopath slash off somebody’s head?

WANTED:
CARTOONIST

PUT YOUR COMIC AND ARTISTIC SKILLS TO GOOD USE.

email davidsonian@davidson.edu

Your Dream: “I want to become a doctor.”

The Johns Hopkins Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program prepares college graduates with strong academic records to apply to the best medical schools
by giving them the personal attention, the necessary science and math courses, and one-to-one academic advising.

If you or someone you know would like to pursue a career as a doctor, apply during the application period
of September 1 to March 1.

For more information, visit www.jhu.edu/postbac or call 410-516-7748.

Your Reality: “I don’t have the required courses for medical school.”

JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY
Post-Baccalaureate Premedical Program
