The Davidsonian Wednesday, March 16, 2005 ARTS

Sex and the bubble

Sometime between John Winthrop’s concept of a delightfully Puritan “City on a Hill” and Britney Spears’ oh-so-steamy “Toxic” video, Americans decided it was okay to talk about sex. Sort of. We’re slowly departing from the notion that sex has to be taboo, a topic to be avoided in polite company or in a college newspaper. If Carrie Bradshaw taught us anything, it was that talking about sex cannot be all bad. But many of us don’t yet feel open enough to talk about our sexuality in a way Dr. Ruth (Westheimer) would hope we could. Hopefully, this sex column can help to foster a growing comfort with issues relating to sex. So, let’s consider a question posed by a member of the Davidson College community. As always, anonymity is maintained for those submitting questions. Here we go.

“Typical story: hooked up on the Court while drunk. Now I’m incredibly awkward around him, and we can’t even make eye contact. What should I do?”

Be not ashamed, for yours is the prototypical Davidson dilemma! How many combinations of hook-ups can a school of 1,700 have? There are no statistics, but I’d proffer that the number of cans of “Beast” consumed on the Court is in direct proportion to the number of shady love-encounters. Try to figure that one out, Math Department. The same things we all love about Davidson academically—small classes, knowing everyone—can ruin it socially. There are only so many hook-ups one student can have at Davidson before you find that you’ve run the gamut and feel uncomfortable everywhere.

Odds are that if you have a drunken Court hook-up with another student here, you will encounter him. Best advice, besides avoiding it or going on a date instead, is to try to make the best of an uncomfortable situation. Say hi, and try to remember life pre-sketchy rendezvous. Just because you have hooked up does not mean you are incapable of comprehensible communication or ordinary human interaction. Talk it out, and, most likely, you can both have a sense of some normalcy again. Hopefully.

Sexually,
Dr. Secksgawd.

GOT QUESTIONS? EMAIL DAVIDSONIAN@DAVIDSON.EDU

What do you do? Get a single, drop the meal plan, forget the Court, and cozy up in your basement carrel for thesis fun-time. A better, less STD-laden approach would be to avoid the whole mess from the beginning. Sometimes clichéd adages do contain the best answers: an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. Mix together alcohol, raging hormones, sex-deprived students, and sweaty dancing, and the result could not be anything but regret. Why are we even surprised?

If you are genuinely attracted to this person, though, you have options. Of course, there is always the more respectable and less regrettable path: go on a date! Head down to Charlotte and wander around downtown. Go out to dinner and see a movie. Maybe even end the night with a kiss rather than drunken, fumbling sex. If there’s one thing Davidson definitely needs more of, it’s dating. Good, wholesome dating, which doesn’t preclude fun by the way.

Album Review: The Academy Is “Almost Here”
By Ty WHITE
Staff Writer

“Attention, attention: may I have all your eyes and ears to the front of the room, if only for one second, will you hear what I have to say?” TheAcademy Is... isn’t going to shove their lyrics down your throat, but the tales they weave catch you from the first word of the album. The debut release from this Chicago-based quintet, entitled “Almost Here,” is an album very much about being themselves: young, ambitious, intelligent musicians. It holds tales of love and loss, of success and failure, and of growing up. In terms of sound, picture Yellowcard (who originated on the same label, Fueled By Ramen) with edgier, more intelligent lyrics, heavier guitars, and a funkier rhythm.

The album begins with “Attention,” a song of one-sided love being turned away. Singer William Beckett belts out, “Did I mention when I see you it stings like hell due to the fact that we could have something that’ll never happen?” He quickly regroups his emotions for the second song, “Season,” a confident anthem about his band being on the up-and-up. “I'll sing you something you won’t forget,” Beckett challenges. And he follows through on his promise throughout the rest of the album.

Beckett continually finds ways to weave music-making together with relationships. In “Slow Down,” he sings of leaving a girl because she’s too wrapped up in the material world. What makes the song a gem is that the music follows the storyline so closely. As he gets enraged with her and tries to leave, the tempo increases. As she reels him back in, trying to calm him down, the music slows to a lullaby.

The first single, “Classifieds,” questions how quickly people can turn their backs on each other. It digs at people’s true intentions with each other. Beckett doesn’t tiptoe around the question of, “If I die in my sleep, are you still willing to be everything you promised you would be?” There’s no Julia-Roberts-movie answer of “Yes, darling, of course,” just frustration with the fact that we have no way of knowing for sure.

Perhaps the most touching song of the album is “Down and Out.” Beckett sings of broken homes and moving away from friends. In his words, “The writers weren’t kidding about how all good things must end.” It is an ode to “Weekend warriors and our best friends. The writers weren’t kidding, but the good things will live in our hearts.”

The album ends with a prophecy that few will refute: “Our time is almost here.” Look for this young band to make waves in the music world. They recognize they are not at the peak of their career yet. While they’re confident they’ll get there, they are not there yet. One problem they still have is they refrain from displaying their full musical talents at times. There are a few instances throughout the album where a guitar solo could be ripped, but they simply repeat the riff. Another problem is merely personal preference. The album ends on a seemingly forced song. The rest of the album flows like a Salinger novel, but the last song, the title track to the album, no less, is forced into being a final musical crescendo. While it is an upbeat song, and it is lyrically appropriate for the end of the album, the energy put into it is a bit overdone. This energy, generally used sparingly both on the album and in their live shows, could even get your parents singing along while they cruise in your dad’s mid-life crisis convertible. Give these guys a shot and they’ll give you everything they’ve got.