16 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2005

Call for arms: pitching falls short against Ga. Southern

‘Cats sweep Yale over break, then get swept by Southern Conference foes

By BRIAN HELFRICH
Senior Staff Writer

After pounding visiting Yale in a three-game sweep over spring break, the baseball team reversed roles and lost all three games to conference powerhouse Georgia Southern last weekend. Strong winds blowing out towards the fences assisted in a flood of runs in both series.

The Wildcats pounded the visiting Bulldogs, scoring 34 runs over a three-game span. In the first game, the ’Cats trailed 8-4 in the bottom of the eighth before making a valiant two-inning comeback, which included being down two runs with two outs in the ninth, led by the bats of Ronnie Shore ’06, Jay Heafner ’06, and Gregory Zage ’07 for the dramatic 13-12 win. Zage hit two home runs in successive innings, and Heafner roped the game-winning single in the 10th. Shore, Zage, and Andrew Musashe ’05 all collected four hits on the game. Taylor Shoop ’06 recorded his first win on the season, coming on in the tenth, and starter Andy Carter ’06 struck out seven batters in four and a third innings.

“We did a great job offensively,” Head coach Dick Cooke said.

The onslaught did not stop after game one, as Davidson came back on Monday and tallied nine more runs. Heafner helped the Wildcats on both sides of the ball in this game, collecting three hits including a three-run home run, then coming on in the ninth for his second save of the year. Musashe also continued his individual tear, notching three more RBI and his second home run of the season, as the ’Cats squeaked out the 9-8 victory.

Tuesday’s final game witnessed the continuation of Davidson’s offensive power, as well as a stellar pitching performance by Matt Meade ’06. Meade worked six innings, surrendering zero runs on only seven singles while striking out six. Offensively, the Wildcats jumped on Yale early, building a 12-0 lead after just seven innings. Michael Muniz ’05 led the charge with two hits, two RBI and his second home run of the season. Eli Benefield ’05 and Alden Crissey ’07 also added a pair of RBI.

“Matt pitched well in the third game,” Cooke said. “We had 20 mph winds, and we did a great job offensively staying with them.”

The following weekend at Georgia Southern, despite a valiant effort by Carter to keep the powerful Eagles at bay while battling strong outward-blowing winds, see Baseball, page 15

Perfect no more: tournament loss ends dream of dancing

By WILL BRYAN
Staff Writer

Disappointment. Frustration. Disbelief. These emotions surged through the contingent of red and black as the last seconds ticked away on Davidson’s NCAA tournament hopes.

With the 73-68 loss to UNC Greensboro, the Wildcats became only the second team ever to go undefeated in the Southern Conference and not win the conference tournament. The only other team to do it? The 1995-96 Davidson team.

As the clock went to 0:00 against the Spartans, in a game the ’Cats had seemingly controlled late in the second half, the fans remained on hand in silence for several minutes, as they had a hard time grasping what had gone so wrong in Chattanooga.

The Wildcats began the tournament onThursday morning began with the first quarterfinal game against the North’s fourth seed, Elon. Poor shooting plagued both teams in the first half, as Davidson went just 11-29 (.379) from the floor but held Elon to 8-23 shooting (.348). Thankfully for the ’Cats, seven of their buckets were threes, and Davidson held a six-point lead going into halftime. A 19-point performance from Southern Conference Player of the Year Brendan Winters ’06, along with Conor Grace’s ’05 season-high 12 rebounds, kept the Phoenix from threatening again, as Davidson jumped out quickly in the second half and never looked back. Logan Kosmalski ’05 and the Wildcats fell in a heartbreaker against UNCG in the SoCon semis. 

“This team’s versatility is its hallmark,” said coach Bob McKillop after the game. “We can generate points in the transition, from outside the arc, and in the paint.” That inside-out combination proved deadly for Elon as Davidson surged to a 67-53 victory and a date in the conference semifinals.

On Friday morning, the ’Cats awoke to the news that conference archrival College of Charleston had been soundly beaten by Appalachian State in the Thursday nightcap. In the remaining tournament field, only Appalachian State had played Davidson to within three points in the regular season. Davidson’s semifinal opponent, UNCG, meanwhile, seemed to be just another step on the way to the ’Cats’ SoCon title, as the Wildcats dominated the Spartans up in Greensboro earlier in the year, and UNCG struggled to a 3-4 mark in its final seven games of the regular season.

The Spartans served notice early that they would not be a doormat to the top-seeded Wildcats, however, as UNCG jumped out to a 21-9 lead with nine minutes remaining in the first half. For the first time all season, the Wildcat offense seemed to be pressing, as they forced drives into the lane and repeatedly turned the ball over and missed off-balance shots. Whether it was pressure, something the team admitted to feeling before their quarterfinal match-up with Elon, or just periodic struggles, the ’Cats looked nothing like the composed team that had stormed through the league 16-0. The ’Cats were able to settle down, however, and a three-pointer by Jason Morton ’06 at the buzzer put the ’Cats within five at halftime and seemed to push the momentum towards Davidson’s side. Davidson came out of the locker room with renewed intensity, as they quickly caught up with the Spartans and then built an 

see Men, page 14

Player of the Week
Meggie Patterson ’06
Tennis
Hometown: Raleigh, N.C.
Major: Psychology

Patterson was selected as the Southern Conference Player of the Week. She is currently on an eight-match winning streak and posted victories in all three SoCon matches last week at the number two singles position. Patterson is 10-2 in singles action this spring, including 3-0 in league play.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Shoop-a-loop: Three jacks in four innings

In a wild loss to Georgia Southern, Shoop slammed three home runs, the first coming in the fifth inning and the third coming four innings later. He became only the fourth Wildcat in history to hit three bombs in one game and tied his own career high of five RBI. In fifty at-bats this season, Shoop has five home runs, 14 RBI, a batting average of .340, and a slugging percentage of .700.