The Davidsonian

First Class
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC

@ “THE SOUTH’S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” ©

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2005

VOLUME 96, NUMBER 13

Fighting Complacency

Day’s events raise
questions of commitment to King’s legacy

By LAUREN CONN
Staff Writer

Davidson College observed Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Monday as students and the surrounding community embraced the past, present, and
future of civil rights.

This year’s agenda featured convocation speaker Dr. Walter Earl Fluker, a gospel choir concert, and several educational programs related to
the theme “Through the Eyes of a Dream: A Look at Davidson.”

The day of celebration began with the “Building the Dream 5K Race/Fun Walk for Peace” sponsored by the Alpha Phi
Alpha fraternity.

see MLK, page 3

Davidsonians explore College’s painful history of race relations

By KATE GILLESPIE
Senior Staff Writer

On Jan. 17, Davidson alumni Calvin Murphy ’70 and Tony Perez ’92 returned to discuss “The History of the Minority
Experience at Davidson College.” The event was held in the 900 Room of the Union and was planned by the
college to commemorate Martin Luther King Day.

Murphy and Perez’s comments were preceded by a talk from college archivist Dr. Jan Blodgett, who discussed the impact of
the civil rights movement on Davidson in the 1950s and ’60s.

“Complacent is one of the words I would use to describe Davidson with regard to change over the years,” Blodgett
said.

Blodgett gave a timeline of integration on campus, beginning with a YMCA poll conducted in October 1954 that found that
Davidson students were equally divided on the issue and ending with the Board of Trustees decision in 1961 to admit
three Congolese students. She also discussed the role that students played in sit-ins and protests in the surrounding cities of
Durham, Rock Hill, and Charlotte.

“The students who participated in sit-ins felt ostracized on campus,” Blodgett said. “There was the sense that they embarrassed Davidson.”

see Minorities, page 3

Let Learning Be Cherished...

Davidson meets $250 million goal in on-going capital campaign. A statement from President Vagt, page 4.

Wrestlers regroup after coach’s firing

By BOSSY DEMURO
Sports Staff Writer

Two days before wrestling’s dual season-opener against Duquesne, Davidson fired head wrestling coach T.J. Jaworsky.

According to the Associated Press, Jaworsky was arrested on Jan. 2, 2005 on charges of cocaine possession, driving while impaired,
and possession of drug paraphernalia.

Furthermore, according to Charlotte police records, Jaworsky posted a bond of $5,800 and was released the same day.

Jaworsky, 34, had been head wrestling coach for the ’Cats for three and one-half years, and he posted a 5-42
record while at the helm.

Despite the poor record over the past few years, Jaworsky and his team had shown signs of progress this year
after solid performances in the pre-season tournaments, and that success continued without Jaworsky when the ’Cats opened a perfect 6-0.

see Coach, page 14

The College Responds

By LIZ BARRY
News Editor

In response to the Dec. 26 tsunami that devastated coastal areas in South Asia, student groups across campus have begun
to raise money for disaster relief efforts.

According to a recent CNN report, the tsunami killed at least 150,000 people in over 11 countries. In India alone,
the current death toll has reached 10,744, with over 5,600 people missing.

The SGA and Red Cross Club launched a joint fundraising effort to take place over the next week. According to
a campus-wide e-mail, if at least 95 percent of students donate one dollar to the cause, President Bobby Vagt will
match the funds raised.

Dr. Job Thomas, professor of history and director of South Asian Studies, has earmarked money from program funds to go
to long-term relief efforts organized by the Madras Christian College in India. Davidson has a long-standing relationship with the Madras
Christian College through the Semester-in-India Program.

Before Thomas sends the donation, he will receive an in-depth report from Madras Christian College concerning what the money will
be used for and who will benefit from it.

“Our goal is not to do something immediately to set sail and smooth our conscience,” Thomas said. “We want to
do something that is meaningful.”

For the Davidson students who participated in the Semester-in-India Program this past fall, the news of the tsunami has been
especially shocking.

“It was surreal knowing we had just been there and had connections with kids who live in those villages,” Amy
Miller ’06 said. “We had been to some of their houses, and they live very close to the ocean. I
just did not know how to react.”

While plans are not yet finalized, the India program participants want to compile a collection of photos, sketches, poems, and
personal essays about their experiences in the villages. They will sell the publication as a way to raise money for
relief efforts and promote awareness in the community about the disaster.

see Tsunami, page 4

Wilson’s Wide World of Sports:
men’s basketball season report
SPORTS, PAGE 12

Sounding off:
a look at national media
PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 11

Make a statement,
knit a scarf
A&L, PAGE 7
