14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2005

Student abroad experiences Argentine soccer

By WILSON McCrory
Sports Editor Emeritus

For a while there, I was really starting to like fútbol. Sure, I ditched it for football and pads that
weighed as much as I did years ago, but I have always respected the game. Then, when I decided to
come down to Buenos Aires, Argentina for the semester, I figured I had to give fútbol another real shot. Maybe
not as a player, as I never quite figured out the whole “foot” part of the equation, but at least
as a fan.

As a wanna-be porteño, I had to be able to carry on a semi-intelligent conversation about the sport since there
are really only two things Argentines care to talk about when they meet us Yanks: what we think about Bush
and which team we pull for in their beloved sport. In the end, I chose the red and white of
River Plate, historically one of the top professional club teams in Argentina, despite clear signs that I would be fighting
a losing battle while down here. Needless to say, River has had about as many coaches as wins since I’ve
arrived, and I’ve still yet to see a goal with my own eyes.

Still, I was really enjoying my new status as a River hincha. At the very least I was trying to
appreciate the sport, and I could actually see the upside. It is a beautiful game, it never stops, there aren’t
a ridiculous number of rules, and you can play it with any number of people, anywhere. Plus, there’s no better
crowd in sports than a bunch of fútbol-crazed locos.

But then came this past weekend, when the sport came crashing back down for me. Ever since I arrived in
Argentina, Boca Juniors/River Plate, the superclásico, was all that I heard about. Every game is big, but Boca/River was billed
as the Super Bowl where fans actually cared who won. The rivalry splits the city and the country down the
middle and essentially determines your friends around here. Literally.

Unfortunately, while the fans lived up to the hype on Sunday, making the game a show throughout, the teams laid
the worst of duds on the field in an emotionless 0-0 tie. In basketball, baseball, football, and even NASCAR, it’s
virtually impossible to have a tie. As a player or fan you're either going home happy, pissed, or somewhere in
between, but at least someone gets to be happy. Unfortunately, as more than 70,000 trudged out of El Monumental into
the Buenos Aires night this past weekend, not a soul was pleased with the outcome. River fans cited the two
overlooked fouls inside the penalty box, while Boca fans chattered on about their increased offensive pressure over the final 20
minutes of play. No matter what, both felt that the victory should have been theirs, and anything short felt much
more like a loss than anything else.

Burns records another first-place finish

By WILL BRYAN
Staff Writer

The cross country teams continued their winning ways last Friday as Southern Conference Runner of the Month Brenna Burns ’08
paced all runners with a time of 18:01 through the 5K to finish in first place overall. Her teammate, Allie
Martin ’06, finished just 18 seconds behind her for a second place overall finish.

The Blue Ridge Open was hosted by the Appalachian State Mountaineers, whose women’s team turned in a second place finish
behind the Wildcats. Davidson finished in front of five Southern Conference teams, a fact that bodes well for the Conference
championships on October 30.

“We feel confident going into the conference meet,” said Burns. “Our first place finish on Friday really established ourselves as
a team.”

The rest of the top five Wildcat runners were Megan Atias ’08 in sixth place, Caroline Burns’08 finished in first
place at the Blue Ridge Open with an 18:01 5K. Sanker ’09 came in 14th, and Brittany Crawford ’08 in
17th. No other Southern Conference team finished four runners in the top 25. The future of the women’s cross country
team certainly looks to be successful as only one of the top five runners is a senior, the rest being
sophomores and freshmen.

The men’s cross country team did not fare as well as the women at the Blue Ridge Open, finishing just
sixth overall. They were led by a 28th place finish by Jonathan Baker ’06 with a time of 26:23 in
the 8K race. The second Wildcat runner to cross the line was freshman Lance Harden ’09, who was coming off
a personal best time of 25:42 at the Lehigh Invitational several weeks ago. Harden finished this race nearly a minute
slower at 26:56, a time good enough for 43rd place. Harden was immediately followed by teammate Austin Mercadante ’06, who
finished two seconds later. The men’s team will look to finish the season strong as they also prepare for the
Southern Conference meet alongside the women.

I understand that a 0-0 tie is about as bad as it gets, and this year’s version of the superclasico
is being called an anomaly as one of the worst games in the long history of the rivalry. Still, the
outcome reminded me that the all-too-common tie is the true downfall of an otherwise wonderful sport. In some cases, overtimes
and/or penalty kicks are used to avert such a horrible fate, but neither really satisfies the problem: Overtime can always
end without a goal, and penalty kicks more accurately reflect the goalies’ abilities to guess which way to dive than
anything else. Sports should be settled on the field, team versus team, and any other result isn’t good enough. I
do think there are better ways to finish a game off after regulation - Wimbledon-style ‘til the last man stands,
film-a-player one at a time until someone scores, or college football-esque sudden death free-kicks or set plays with time limits.
Something. No matter what the solution, it has to be better than watching two defenses camped out in their boxes
for most of the second half to guard against a loss, as I watched with horror on Sunday. It turned
what should have been the highlight of the sports year down here into a giant disappointment. As a result, despite
my best efforts, futbol will always be for me just an also-ran in the world of sports.

From Women’s Soccer, page 16

Once again, Koehrn put up two goals to carry the team to a 3-0 win, getting her first in the
24th minute. Smith took a corner kick and sent the ball to Koehrn inside the box where she one-touched it
into the back of the net past the Eagle goaltender. Just before going to the break, Nancy Haskell ’08 took
a free kick and passed the ball to Koehrn. Koehrn headed the ball, and Mumby planted it in the goal.
Davidson finished up the scoring for the game when Koehrn notched her 14th of the season on a play in
which she out-maneuvered an Eagle defender one-on-one and scored from about 10 yards away from the goal-line. For the past
two weeks, Koehrn has reigned as SoCon Player of the Week. When it comes down to the numbers, Koehrn has
them. She has 32 points on the season with 14 goals (7 of them game-winning), 4 assists, and 62 shots.
Last week, the SoCon named Koehrn TIAA-CREF Student-Athlete of the Week for her excellent work on and off the field.
On Thursday, the Wildcats hope to extend their streak even further as they travel to Wofford.

Want to write for Sports? Email pitrumbo or mojamouneau.
