THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Tracking their success; watch these freshmen

By WALKER SAIK
Senior Staff Writer

No one typically pays much attention to runners. They tend to keep to themselves, haul it around the track a
few times each practice, hit the locker rooms, then the books. Notice the lack of special attention.

But more and more, those runners are starting to deserve our attention.

Take, for example, Megal Atias ’08, who came all the way from small-town Israel to compete here at Davidson.

She just recently logged a 4:41.62 1500 time that happens to be best in the SoCon this spring and just
over a second off the school record.

“I love it. It’s a whole different world,” said Atias of running in the States. “Back at home, the competition
wasn’t as serious, and I never had as big of a team. I love the girls on my team, and
I really appreciate the opportunity to run here.”

Or you can look at Atias’ teammate, Summerlee Walter ’08, who’s been running since she quit softball in eighth grade.

Her 400 outdoor PR of 59.2 is less than a second off of the school record, and when you ask
her of any personal ambitions, she’ll give you a stern reply: “The outdoor 400 meter record.”

“In high school, it was a rare day if we ran over 200 meters in practice,” said Walter of the
switch to college running. “Initially, it was tough, but your body adjusts. From day one, we were running full spring
workouts.”

On the men’s side there’s Stefan Flessa ’08, who had a breakout sophomore year in high school and hasn’t really
slowed down since.

In fact, he had a part in three school records in one meet not too long ago by breaking the
400 (50.46), 200 (22.71), and 4X400 relay (3:22.52) marks at the SoCon Indoor Championships. Paul Wyatt ’05, David Ritchie ’07,
and John Bialas ’07 were the other three legs of the relay.

Ask Flessa what he’d like to see in his season, and you’ll find out his eyes are on the Conference
meet.

“I just want to place in Conference—like score a point,” he said. “And all-conference in the 4X400 would be really
nice too. We’d like to break the [4X400] outdoor record, and we’ve already got the indoor one.”

Getting back to Atias—in case you were curious—she’s from a small town (Maccabim-Reut, which is much tougher to pronounce than
it looks) that’s between Tel Aviv and Jerusalem. Her dad ran for the Israeli team, so she used to get
to run around her village as a kid. By high school, though, she had to travel to find a club
team.

“[In Israel], athletics and school are separated,” she explained. “I had to commute to Tel Aviv to train with my
team, and we ran only three times a week together, so right now, these organized team runs are great.”

She adds that if she does as well as she hopes this year, she may travel to Italy this summer
to represent Israel in a European youth championship.

Pretty cool, huh?

Not to mention she’s traveled to places like Scotland and Russia to compete. Somehow New Jersey just doesn’t seem as
special anymore.

Atias and the rest will soon get their one chance to shine at home too, as Davidson has its lone
home meet of the year coming up on April 23.

So try to make it out, because the new kids are pretty good, and they do deserve a little of
that special attention.

Track travels to Furman, UNCC

By MONICA JAMOUNEAU
Staff Writer

The men and women’s track and field teams traveled to Furman this Saturday for the USA Collegiate, where the Wildcats
competed against Furman, the Citadel, Mars Hill, College of Charleston, and Wofford. Another group of Davidson men participated in the
UNC Charlotte Invitational on the same day.

The women were very successful at Furman, bringing home four first-place wins by the team’s freshmen. Summerlee Walter ’08 beat
the competition with a 62.15 in the 400 and also finished third in the 200.

Megal Atias ’08 continued her domination of the distance events this spring, as she took the win in the 1500
in 4:49.28, while her teammate, Cecie Blair ’08, placed first in 1:11.25 in the 400 hurdles. In the field, Amaka
Obidegwu ’08 threw the discus 113-01 for first place in that event.

“The outdoor season is really taking off,” said Coach Sterling Martin. “We’ve got a lot of young talent, and it’s
exciting to see them perform so well.”

For the men, Andy Keifer ’08 and Brad Troxel ’08 placed third and fourth, respectively, in the 800. Jonathan Baker
’06 was runner-up in the 1500, and Cisco Morales ’07 also placed second in the 400 hurdles. The men’s 4x400
relay had a third-place showing at Furman.

Nick Diluzio ’08 represented Davidson well in the field events, placing fifth in shot put and seventh in discus. His
teammate, Mike Anselmo ’06, also came out strong to finish seventh in shot put and sixth in discus. Joe Taylor
’06 contributed with an eighth-place showing in discus and fifth in javelin.

At the UNC Charlotte Invitational, Douglas Noreen ’07 posted a sixth-place finish in the 800 in 1:58.65. In the relays,
the men’s 4x100 team finished in 44.67, while the 4x400 team ran a 3:31.55 as both placed seventh in their
respective events.

The track and field teams will return to competition on Friday, April 8, when the men travel to Duke. The
women will join them the next day at the Duke Spring Classic.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2005

Lake Norman’s Finest Italian

All Students, Faculty, and Staff receive 20% off with CatCard!
