By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Columnist

(Author’s warning: the following was written after waking up at 7 a.m. Sunday morning, traveling 430 miles solo by car, then making that same drive back with a co-pilot at 3 a.m. Monday morning—on no sleep. Due to extreme delirium, coupled with mild euphoria, this article may not make any sense. Not that anything I write ever does.)

This was the first year since I can remember that I did not watch each and every Super Bowl commercial, eagerly anticipating the next “Bird vs. Jordan in H.O.R.S.E” campaign, or something on par with the talking Budweiser frogs.

This was the first year I did not sit around the television with a bunch of buddies for 12 consecutive hours on Super Bowl Sunday, neglecting not only school work, but also bodily needs such as food—there’s a steak in every can—and fresh air.

And this was the first year in a while that I wasn’t insanely jealous of every New England fan tailgating at the big game, talking ‘bout Brady and Belicheck, our wicked awesome receivin’ corps, Bruschi and Dillon, and—mysteriously but invariably—the Sox.

All that’s because this was the first year I went to the Super Bowl.

Last year the rest of my family was in Houston watching the Pats trump the Panthers 32-29, while I remained here—in enemy territory—only to have my celebratory dinner at Waffle House interrupted by a pack of rabid Carolina fans. Indeed, one Panthers supporter sat right behind me, and, as I was trying to enjoy my All-Star special, rudely hollered directly into my ear, “If you don’t take off dat damn Brady jersey, I’ma beat dem three points outta you!” Eggs and redneck do not go well together.

This past Sunday, though, I was in Jacksonville, along with most of Philadelphia. And not that anyone has the right to complain about a Super Bowl ticket, but mine landed me in the heart of Eagles country. If you ever want a headache or simply a reason to question the fate of mankind, go to an Eagles game. Whenever Philly scored, 60,000 men and women flapped their arms in unison and sang some fight song you swear they ripped off from Barney.

It’s not that I hold anything against people from Philly (I actually dated a Main Line girl for two years). It’s just that they’re so much ... well, so much like Boston fans during the pre-Richard-in-college years.

I now know why every non-New Englander harbors an intense dislike for me and my ilk. When your team loses the big ones on a consistent basis (see: Red Sox, 1918-2004; or Philadelphia Eagles, eternity) you unavoidably become annoying, bitter, and deranged. And so I offer you a belated apology for my behavior during the first 18 years of my life.

I will not, however, apologize for New England’s current dominance of nearly every major sport in America, college and pro ranks alike.

But anyway ...

However you imagine watching a Super Bowl in person would be like is probably very accurate, and I won’t pretend you actually care about my experience. Nevertheless, I feel the need to corroborate what most everyone else has said about Jacksonville as the host city: completely overwhelmed and utterly unprepared.

Alltel Stadium ran out of hot dogs and hamburgers before the game even started. What? This was the Super Bowl, not some vegan conference.

What’s more, there was no running water in the bathrooms, which was actually a blessing considering many fans, frustrated with the insane lines at the stalls, relieved themselves in the sinks.

Despite the lack of food and the plethora of bodily fluids, Super Bowl XXXIX was quite the spectacle indeed. My major highlight occurred when I finagled my way into the VIP party for the players and actually touched the Lombardi Trophy. For me, however, attending the Super Bowl is a little like getting a tattoo or joining the Mile High Club (not that I have any idea about either, but still): one time is enough, and anything more just seems superfluous.

I'd rather be with my buddies than Eagles fans, I'd rather eat food than starve, and I'd certainly rather use a toilet than a sink (yes, guilty).

With that one behind us, New Englanders can now focus on our true love: the Sox. Because even if this Brady/Belicheck dynasty rolls on for several more years, it will always play second fiddle to a team that has won one title in the last 86 seasons.

Talk about deranged fans.

Make law school a reality.

Your money back.

Planning to take the June 2005 exam?

Preparation begins February 20th on the Davidson College Campus

Only Kaplan provides complete preparation for the LSAT. Call or visit us online today.

KAPLAN

Test Prep and Admissions

1-800-KAP-TEST
kaptest.com/lsat

*LSAT is a registered trademark of the Law School Admission Council. **Conditions and restrictions apply.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2005

Norman’s Finest Italian

All Students, Faculty, and Staff receive 20% off with CatCard!