THE DAVIDSONIAN

A look at ‘freedom’

The dream of America as “leader of the free world” has become just that: a dream. After four years of theocracy and rampant capitalism under George W. Bush, the U.S. has fully deteriorated into a repressive dystopia. Demagogues in Washington, catapulted into power by the deep coffers of the few corporate fatcats who dominate the impoverished masses, have immolated our civil liberties for the sake of foreign crusades and redneck religion. But like many other educated and cultured blue-state Americans, I have found the new shining star of freedom for the world. Europe, the Old Continent, has long embraced a true meaning of freedom, and its political institutions have created a veritable paradise on earth.

We begin in France, a country known for its proud heritage of cultural selectivity which some callously call “arrogance” and “snobbery.” In the U.S., the Patriot Act has eviscerated our freedoms to think and speak. French politicians are much more respectful of their people’s cherished liberties. The Washington Post explained how in an article from November of 2004: “While other Western countries debate the proper balance between security and individual rights, France has experienced scant public dissent over tactics that would be controversial, if not illegal, in the United States and some other countries.... France has embraced a law enforcement strategy that relies heavily on preemptive arrests [and] ethnic profiling... French anti-terrorism prosecutors and investigators are among the most powerful in Europe, backed by laws that allow them to interrogate suspects for days without interference from defense attorneys.” Ooh la la! The French are so fortunate that they live in a country where they can hand over this much power to their law enforcement officials and still be able to trust them to use it wisely and prudently!

Progressive Americans have always applauded European nations for their superior single-payer healthcare systems. British medicine is a prime example of what Americans could look forward to if only they followed in Europe’s footsteps. At the end of last October, 857,200 Britons were on waiting lists for medical operations, with 69,000 of these waiting for six months or more. In the U.S., with its inefficient private healthcare, these delays might actually pose problems. But as reported in the December 2004 issue of The Independent, the British Secretary of State for Health quickly came to the rescue with a plan: thousands of nurses will be trained as surgeons in order to get these operations done as soon as possible! What a brilliant concept! Now British surgeons can attend to more important tasks, such as developing client-patron relationships with lawyers in the hopes that the costs they have incurred in lawsuits might be reduced in some way.

Even some of the smallest European countries have proved to be freer and more democratic than the U.S. In Belgium in late 2004, the government forced that country’s most popular political party to disband because of the party’s racist stances on immigration. This is in sharp contrast to the U.S., where racist Republicans run amok because intrusive “laws” like the First Amendment prevent the U.S. government from banning those unacceptable voices from public view. And the Belgians don’t have to worry about these racists restarting as an underground party. Private political parties are banned in Belgium! Only the state can give funds to parties. Because the Belgian citizens don’t have to waste time participating in their democracy by funding their own parties, like stupid Americans do, they can focus on more productive things like making waffles.

After considering these ways in which Europe is far more advanced and enlightened than America, it is totally beyond me how thousands of immigrants each year could prefer the U.S. to Europe as their new home. If they only knew what I know about Europe, they would see it for what it really is.

Matt Bandyk is a junior political science major from Tampa, FL. Contact him at mabandyk@davidson.edu.

Political labels ruin quality of discourse

By Joe TAYLOR
Guest Columnist

The brainless liberals versus the heartless conservatives. The party of excuses versus the party that hates all excuses other than their own. The party of unnecessary governmental intervention versus the party that hates all such intervention unless it magnifies their role as Vicar of Christ on earth. Such is the beauty of our current political system as displayed by the opinion sections of newspapers and websites alike.

This past Tuesday op-ed columnist Paul Krugman of the New York Times published a piece, “An Academic Question,” in which he attempted to explain the lack of conservative professors at elite universities across the country. On an unremitting canvas of sweeping generalizations, Krugman paints the Republican party with a Bible Belt slung around its waist. Apparently these God-fearing people prefer revelation to research and thus prefer the private sector to the academic world.

A response to this rather memorable article popped up a few hours later on the illustriously biased website called National Review Online. The author, NRO Editor-at-Large Jonah Goldberg, took a stand for his beloved conservatives against the wily Krugman. As any good “conservative” would, Goldberg revealed the shocking truth that there is a vast conspiracy of left-wing hiring bias. He noted that liberals who study nutty things like “biodiversity” cannot possibly...bly find jobs elsewhere and thus are doomed to a life of poverty and childish utopian fantasies. Goldberg also explained that there are not many conservative professors in academia because conservatives like money more than liberals like money; he repeatedly emphasized that it is perfectly “normal” to be a conservative and to use the love of money to create a suburban family utopia. Goldberg also noted that liberals exaggerate the religious zealotry of the Republican party, and that “Christian Jihadism” is a completely unfounded exaggeration despite the numerous faith-based governmental programs and amendment proposals from an illiterate pontifical leader who checks with divine sources for justification of war and who thinks that the “jury is still out” on evolution.

Here is the real academic question: Why do these writers squabble over labels and further perpetuate the schism between the purported left and right? The most intelligent, talented, and influential leaders are those who evaluate individual issues and individual people prior to making a decision rather than tailoring their decision to a particular label. The party-line banter found in both articles is arguably one of the biggest problems in our current political system and it creates an environment in which people of opposing labels, which are tattooed on their foreheads like some barcode of identity, spit vitriol at one another without even thinking about the issue. In fact, the words “Republican” and “Democrat” are so cliché that I cringe as I type them. These labels that define the very existence of most pundits and politicians have become epithets that are used to shame opponents.

The issue of conservative professors at elite institutions would be an interesting one if it were not clouded by the painfully vapid way in which we attempt to categorize people into warring factions at opposite ends of every issue. Not every single professor takes the prepackaged “liberal” or “conservative” perspective on every single issue, so why word the question in such a way that only one of two answers is acceptable? Perhaps if we began to evaluate people and concepts rather than prepackaged ideas from party affiliations, “An Academic Question” would be irrelevant. If professors did not concern themselves with one label or another, and if people do not require them to do so, then there would be more original thought and less factionalized group mentality.

Joe Taylor is a junior neuroscience major from Poland, OH. Contact him at jotaylor@davidson.edu.

---

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2005

A parody of political correctness
By JC Boyle
Staff Columnist

Harvard University president Larry Summers’s recent remarks on the gender disparity in top-level science professorships resulted in a public relations disaster: for Harvard, yes, for Summers, certainly, but also for an increasingly dominant variety of American liberalism. All Summers did was float the possibility (no, not even that, just the possibility of investigating a theory) that male and female brains might look at math and science differently. Nothing in the transcript of his remarks reveals anything to be more offensive than that, but somehow his comments made it necessary for at least one female professor to leave the room, self-described as on the verge of tears. Within days there were calls for Summers’s resignation, and weeks later the faculty voted to express its disapproval with his administration.

Something went wrong here, more than just a powerful man saying something politically stupid. Summers’s critics may see the incident to be symbolic of his lack of tact, or his inadequate leadership skills, or whatever flaw they might choose to embellish, but the fact of the matter is that the result says more than what he actually spoke. Political correctness is a term that has been stripped of good intentions and reduced to an insult, a parody of the great gains made against discrimination. In some instances, however, it is a parody made so not by the manipulation of the right-wing media machine but through seriously misguided efforts on the part of unthinking people with impossibly thin skins. The Summers scandal epitomizes this more than any event in recent memory, exposing a strange hypocrisy in those who made the incident a continuing news story.

Larry Summers had the right to float a theory, and he didn’t prove himself a sexist by doing so. The question is not the problem. If there are so far fewer female applicants to top-level math and science jobs, despite comparative abilities in standardized testing and undergraduate success, there are only so many assumptions one can make. Summers looked into investigating the most controversial one. A mistake, but not one that implies he wants all women to be barefoot kitchen slaves, and certainly not one that should have put his job in danger. The real issue is with those who made the story a story, the ones who lead the fight to respect everyone’s views...unless those views don’t envision rainbows, hand-holding, and sunshine. These are people who work for a research institution, yet refuse to objectively investigate the reason behind a problem they themselves see as threatening.

There are legitimate things at which one should be offended. Institutional sexism and gender discrimination are undeniably bad things. Possible theoretical investigation into the prospect of nature itself giving different sexes different attributes? It’s hard to build up a decent rage against this without using steroids.

JC Boyle is a freshman classics major from Atlanta, GA. Contact him at jcboyle@davidson.edu.