16 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2005

Nahum Navas ’06 dribbles the ball in Thursday's 3-2 OT win against Charlotte.

By BRENT McCormick
Staff Writer

After an impressive 3-2 overtime win against Charlotte on Thursday, and a dominant 2-0 shutout of UNC-W to conclude the
weekend homestand, men’s soccer looks poised for another great season, with solid performances and a lot of confidence heading into
this weekend in Baltimore.

On Thursday, in their home opener against a strong Charlotte squad, the ’Cats battled back from a 1-0 and 2-1
deficit, eventually tying the game and winning early into overtime. With time winding down, Robby Hoak ’08 blasted a shot
into the net from 25 yards out, striking back against Charlotte and notching a 2-2 tie onto the scoreboard. The
goal came on a free kick stemming from a handball by Charlotte late in the half. Hoak’s goal sent the
game into overtime, but very little extra time was needed. Two minutes into the overtime, Matt Allen ’06 sent a
feeding pass to the left side where a streaking Cass Baltz ’07 fired the game-winner past the Wilmington netminder as
the full capacity crowd erupted at Alumni Stadium.

The win was a big confidence boost for the ’Cats squad, according to head coach Matt Spear. “Coming from behind
twice against Charlotte shows good signs of maturity, composure, and confidence. It was an emotional, physical battle first and foremost.
And a huge win over a rival,” he said. Davidson struggled a bit in the second half despite playing a
man up, but the team’s composure seemed to keep them alive and inevitably victorious. “The team really came together to
pull off this win. Winning the tournament provides us with some momentum moving on to next weekend’s games in Baltimore,”
said Allen.

Riding the momentum of a solid performance against Charlotte, Davidson took to the field again Saturday to take on a
solid UNC-W team. Davidson controlled the tempo early, and several offensive flashes proved to be enough, as early efforts by
Allen ended up being all the offense the ’Cats needed. Collecting a poor clearing pass from a Wilmington defender, Allen
booted a shot into the lower left-hand side of the net on what proved to be the game-winning goal. “My
teammates put me in a position where all I had to do was finish. However, looking back on the play,
I wish I would have run the opposite direction for celebration purposes in order to avoid being form tackled by
David Sartorio (’06),” said Allen of his goal and the ensuing celebration.

In the 71st minute, Hoak put the nail in Wilmington’s coffin, netting his second goal in as many games and
giving Davidson a 2-0 lead. Mac Wilkie ’07 fed a cutting Hoak, who booted a laser to the net for
a goal from point-blank range. “Robby Hoak really knows how to stroke those balls; his free-kick goal against Charlotte was
a thing of beauty,” said Sartorio, who scored Davidson’s first goal of the season against Charlotte.

The two opening wins were big momentum boosts, and Spear is pleased with not only the results, but also what
he’s seen from his players. “We have scored four, two, three, and two goals for the two preseason and regular
season games respectively. That’s an excellent scoring rate and very important to gain confidence as we thrive on playing attacking,
see Soccer, page 15

’Cats no match for VMI in season opener

By MARK CLAYTON
Staff Writer

Football’s season opener did not go as planned, as host VMI handed the ’Cats a 33-0 loss on Saturday. In
front of a crowd of over5,200 people at Alumni Memorial Stadium in Lexington, the Wildcats could not find answers for
VMI all day long. After receiving the opening kickoff, the team put together a nice drive using the ground game
of Jonathon Hubbard ’07 and the right arm of Beaux Jones ’08. Davidson drove as far as the VMI 22-yard
line, but a holding penalty and personal foul stalled the drive and forced a ’Cats punt. Following that defensive stop,
the Keydets never looked back, and they capped off the ensuing 80-yard drive with a four-yard touchdown run. VMI scored
on its first four possessions, while Davidson’s offense had no answers for the very physical opposing defense. Going into the
locker room at halftime, the ’Cats trailed 23-0.

On the opening drive of the second half, free safety Zach Long ’08 picked off a pass at the VMI
42. Long, who showed no signs of rust after missing last season with an ACL injury, also contributed 15 tackles.
Offensively, the second half belonged to quarterback Ryan Alexander ’08. Alexander replaced starting quarterback Jones in the first quarter when
Jones suffered a shoulder injury, which is considered to be non-serious. Long’s pick gave the ’Cats good field position, and
Alexander led Davidson into the red zone for a first down at the VMI 14-yard line. But, once again, penalties
cost Davidson, and the drive ended in a fourth-and-26 from the VMI 30-yard line. On the play, Alexander located two
possible receivers in the back of the end zone, but the pass fell incomplete, and yet another drive yielded no
points.

In his first game as head coach for Davidson, Tripp Merritt applauded the offensive execution from 20 to 20 on
Saturday, but said Davidson needs to “play smart” inside the red zone. The Davidson defense was on the field for
a majority of the game on Saturday. The Keydets dominated time of possession with 36:37 to Davidson’s 23:23. The steamy
weather and a VMI offense which the ’Cats had not seen on film added to the breakdown, and the defense
stiffened in the second half. Inside linebacker Alex Arinsmier ’06 led Davidson with 16 tackles, but VMI still managed to
tack on 10 more points following the break, to make the final score 33-0.

VMI’s defensive strategy was to put pressure on the quarterback, which was evident by the two Keydet sacks and numerous
other pressures on both Jones and Alexander. Alexander went 10 for 16, and collected 95 yards and one interception, while
Jones went 2 for 7 for 20 yards in the limited time before his injury. A highlight for the ’Cats
was the performance of all-PFL receiver Brett Dioguardi ’07. Dioguardi caught four passes for 43 yards and amassed 115 yards
on four kickoff returns. Davidson will look for a win against Greensboro College in its home opener this Saturday night.
Kickoff is at 7 p.m., and a dedication of the renovated Richardson Stadium will take place at halftime.

Player of the Week
Brenna Burns ‘08
Cross Country
Hometown: Weaverville, North Carolina
Major: Undeclared

Burns ran a 18:17.44 at the Covered Bridge Open in Boone, N.C. to lead her team to a second-place finish.
Her performance was also good enough for her to garner runner-up honors in a field of 98 runners.

Cass Baltz’s game-winning goal
With the score tied 2-2 and two minutes gone in overtime, Baltz ‘07 received a pass from Matt Allen ‘06
on the left side of the field and scored the game-winning goal to defeat Charlotte in the men’s soccer team’s
season and home opener.
