THE DAVIDSONIAN

Trumbo’s Picks of the Week

Wildcat Game of the Week
Thursday 9/1, 7:00
Men’s Soccer vs. Charlotte

The men’s soccer team has been predicted to finish 2nd in the SoCon this year. After two exhibition wins, the
'Cats seem ready to start well and set the tone for the season in their home-opener game against Charlotte.

Outside the Den
Monday 9/5, 8:00 p.m.
Miami at Florida State

Two dynasties, one past, one present, come together for their annual duel. As always, look for a rowdy crowd, a
close game, and maybe even a botched field goal or untimely turnover to break the heart of a Florida State
fan. I’m predicting that the Seminoles will successfully defend their home turf and won’t give another one away. Then again,
I think that’s about what I predicted last year too.

By Monica Jamouneau
Sports Editor

“Quit? You know, once I was thinking about quitting when I was diagnosed with brain, lung, and testicular cancer all
at the same time, but with the love and support of my friends and family, I got back on the
bike and won the Tour de France five times in a row. But I’m sure you have a good reason
to quit.”

Lance Armstrong; how the mighty have fallen. We all don’t have the good fortune to appear on mass-quoted comedy gems
like Dodgeball in order to rekindle our fan base, but we aren’t all internationally-known athletes either. The name that used
to be praised by both English- and French-speaking lips is now synonymous with Possible Dirty Liar. Even if it’s not
true that Lance tested positive for EPO, a red blood cell increasing drug (and what are the chances, really), his
hero status and integrity have been called into question enough times to make a person wonder. Between you and me,
the Tour de Lance has gotten pretty old. Only sports enthusiasts know the names of more than one or two
other cyclists in the Tour. He dedicated a book to his wife, who helped him through how many bouts with
cancer? And before you accuse me of being insensitive, just remember that I didn’t leave my wife to be with
Sheryl Crow. Even his LiveStrong bands have become the center of some scandal, since six people have been accused of
manufacturing the bracelets for profit. This begs the question: Should athletes really be seen as heroes? My answer is absolutely
not. There are some who choose to be (the Giants, for tsunami disaster relief), some who want to be (Armstrong),
and some who would rather do crunches in their driveways while we all wonder if Drew Rosenhaus has a soul
(guess). So what if Rafael Palmeiro did steroids? Just kick him off the team, erase his inflated stats, and move
on. Pro tennis did this a long time ago, and they aren’t suffering terrible press like MLB. If Bud Selig
would tell Congress to leave baseball alone and start enforcing drug tests like he should be doing, then maybe the
athletes will be forced to become the heroes that some people wish they were. Palmeiro will probably still be in
the Hall of Fame. The only reason I might leave him out is for his embarrassing Viagra ads. Even George
Bush told the press that he’s good friends with the ball player and expected him to be acquitted. Palmeiro’s had
over 500 home runs and

By Will Bryan
Guest Writer

After attending a Wildcat sporting event last year, one student said, “my middle school had better crowds than this. It’s
just parents and a few students who aren’t even watching the game.” It is true that Davidson students are well
documented for their abilities to fill up calendars and to-do lists, and going to a game normally falls low on
those lists. Several years ago, a handful of students on a freshman hall decided to change that problem. After traveling
to an away football game in Virginia and cheering on the ’Cats with painted chests, CatPack was officially born. “We
wanted to have some organization for spirit at games,” said wrestler Drew Carey ’06. Over the years, CatPack grew little
by little and became an official campus organization, even selling t-shirts at Commons. The main focus of the group, however,
was on men’s basketball. The other 20 Division I sports remained in the dark as students did not regularly attend
other contests. Many achievements from our outstanding student-athletes went almost unnoticed. This year something changed. A group of students taking
charge of CatPack decided to take the organization to a higher level. The product of many hours of discussion and
brainstorming is the new Wildcat Pride Program. The main premise is that students who show up to athletic contests are
awarded punches on cards that count toward materialbecome the heroes that some people wish they were. 3000 hits, and it
would be reasonable to say that only a small fraction of them were drug-induced. Those are Cooperstown-worthy stats and they’re
all his. And after all, he has no idea how steroids ever got into his body.

Let’s look at NASCAR for a second. The prizes, such as t-shirts, koozies, sweatshirts, and the much-desired flat screen TV.
Without the need to pay for shirts, the program becomes more open to the entire campus, and all students are
eligible. Another new aspect of the program is the focus on all Davidson athletics, from field hockey to men’s tennis.
“We hope to encourage students to come to games by offering them material prizes,” says co-leader Blake Poole ’08. “We
ultimately hope that the enthusiasm for stuff translates into an enthusiasm for our athletic teams.” But even with new goals
and directions, the verdict on the new program remains to be seen.

To judge from the first weekend of sports, the new program seems to be working. Last Saturday, a record crowd
of students showed up to cheer on the field hockey team in their home opener. “In all my years, I
have never seen so many students at a field hockey game,” said Martin McCann, Director of Sports Marketing and Promotions.
“We actually ran out of student punch cards.” “The tremendous crowd support changed the dynamics of the entire game, and
especially the overtime minutes,” said Kelly Brennan ’07. “The energy level was so high and so clearly in Davidson’s favor.”

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31, 2005

The entire sport is based on cheating—the crew chiefs receive a rule book and then spend every waking minute attempting
to come up with ways to get around it, making their cars faster, smoother, and longer-lasting. That’s how they win,
and that’s how Tony Stewart is winning now. Back in the good old days of racing, there was even a
crew chief who filled his car’s hollow frame with lead filings in order to make it heavier for the pre-race
weigh-in, and then the driver would press a switch during competition to let the filings gradually empty out. Genius.

As for me, I used to love Sammy Sosa. I thought, “What a nice, simple guy. He’s a strong hitter,
he doesn’t show off more than anybody else, and he’s nice to children.” Then the world found his corked bat
and suddenly he’s playing for Baltimore. It doesn’t matter to me that Joe Horn wants to call his family. If
anything, I’m impressed that Terrell Owens can play a football game with a marker in his sock without hurting himself.
Randy Moss’ “moon” dance was funny. Does it interrupt the game? Probably. How stressful is it to play a professional
sport? Very. By complaining about morals in sports, we’re giving all those players what they want: their names in every
paper, on every TV. ESPN has even started an “ESPN Hollywood” in order to keep up. I don’t agree with
most of the stupid things players say and do when they’re not competing (or when they are), but I’m more
than willing to make fun of them saying and doing it. I guess what I’m trying to say is that
ball players (and cyclists, and drivers) are people, too. If you don’t want your children to emulate them, make them
emulate you.

The crowds continued on Sunday night as Alumni Stadium was packed to the brim to watch the women’s soccer team
take on ACC foe Wake Forest. Many students earned their second set of punches as they happily predicted that they
would come to every home game for the next month. Despite these initial positive results, however, it is still yet
to be seen whether students will really care about koozies once the routine of school and studying begins.

In an effort to maintain energy for attendance and enthusiasm, the Promotions Department has created a Student Marketing Committee to
spread spirit throughout the school. So far, future events include a cookout and tailgate before the first home football game
on September 10. Other ideas may include the men’s basketball team, who will play another solid schedule in the upcoming
season. As evidenced by the field hockey win on Saturday, fans do factor into the outcome of sporting events. There
is a reason that teams love to play at home; their fan base is an extra defender on every possession
and the ultimate creator of momentum. Davidson has a unique situation, however, because they have the smallest student body of
any school that competes in so many sports at the Division I level. Quantity counts, and Davidson has only so
many students. “We know that we are a small school,” said Marketing Assistant Bonnie Clarke, “but if our teams compete
at such a high level, then our support needs to equal that level.”
