4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Refuge, continued from page 1

Refugee students who might end up here this semester: students who had been admitted to Davidson but chose to go
to another school; students who called asking to come to Davidson; and “random connections,” or students who had connections to
Davidson alumni, students, or faculty. Vagt made personal phone calls to those students in the first group to make sure
they realized Davidson was simply offering them a place to go until their own schools reopened. “We want to be
clear that we are not poaching,” Vagt said, “that we’re offering this on only a temporary basis. Davidson College is
going to be careful that it isn’t perceived as taking advantage of an unfortunate situation.”

Although the college is still fielding calls from students, Vagt says that there are currently only “three or four who
we are in a serious conversation with.” Davidson would like to help as many displaced students as possible but can
only accommodate a few. The college is focused on the short-term challenges, and what will happen beyond the fall semester
is unclear. “Right now, we are simply offering them the opportunity to continue their education, to let them satisfy their
need to come to college. We aren’t dealing with the issue of ‘how long can we stay’ yet,” said Acting
Dean of Admission and Financial Aid Chris Gruber. “It may be that ultimately, the choice to let them stay permanently
or just until their school is back will be up to them.”

Housing the new students will not be a problem. There are still empty beds on campus because some students decided
to go abroad or transfer after the housing lottery last spring. Academic issues are harder to resolve. Gruber has been
working with the registrar’s office all week to make sure that Davidson offers classes necessary for the students’ fields of
study, something especially important for the upperclassmen. Because Davidson starts its semester earlier than many other schools in the country,
students who arrive after this week will have difficulty catching up in class. “A major factor in the decision [to
come to Davidson] is that we are already well into our third week of class,” Gruber said. “They have to
weigh the costs and benefits of coming here as opposed to some other school that just started class this week.”

Faculty, however, are willing to help the displaced students. “Academically, I’ve been very overwhelmed,” Cunningham said. “I have two weeks
of work to make up, which is unbelievably stressful. Fortunately, my teachers have been flexible and are working with me
until I get back on track.” According to Gruber, the faculty response has been “tremendous.” “They are just coming out
of the woodwork to help these students get into their classes and help them make up what they’ve missed,” he
said.

The college is also willing to help the students financially, as most of them have already paid tuition to Tulane
or Loyola. Tulane has asked the American Council on Education that the students who had already paid tuition there not
be charged for the time being. The Davidson administration has agreed to honor this request. “We have said that if
they have already made payment [to their university], we will absorb the cost,” said Vagt.

The decision to take in displaced students was not a direct response to the calls for assistance from college consortiums,
but rather a proactive effort to reach out to students in need. “You look around and see what’s happening and
ask what you can do to help,” said Vagt. “It is a commitment that will help people restart their life.”

“We were encouraged to slow down on the packing and start moving our belongings away from the windows and into
the closet,” Cunningham said. “My parents and I took the hint: Tulane would be closing for a few days because
of the hurricane. On that note, my parents decided to begin the drive back to Atlanta before traffic out of
New Orleans got bad.”

That evening, Cunningham and 600 other students left on buses to Jackson State University (JSU). The next day, chaperones informed
the students that Hurricane Katrina was “a little more serious than expected” and encouraged them to “find a way home.”
“The chaperones arranged for buses to shuttle students to the airport if they could get a flight out... I arranged
for a ride back to Atlanta with another Tulane freshman and his parents. One student took a taxi cab all
the way back to Chicago!”

The stay at JSU was more stressful than scary for Cunningham. “To be honest, no one really knew what was
going on with the hurricane because we had access to only one TV at JSU, and some boys were playing
video games on it,” Cunningham said. “The only information we had on the hurricane was what the chaperones gave us
in their announcements.” It wasn’t until after Katrina hit that Cunningham and her parents worried. Luckily, she was able to
secure a spot at Davidson. “It’s so heartwarming to think that schools across the nation are opening their doors to
displaced students. In the meanwhile, I am very grateful to be here at Davidson. Everyone I’ve met here is extremely
friendly. It’s a very warm and welcoming community. At this point, I cannot say what my plans are for the
second semester. If Tulane opens up, it’s possible I’ll return to New Orleans. But I’ve grown to love Davidson and
never want to leave.”

—By Rucht Turakhia, News Editor

Students, continued from page 1

morning and drove to her aunt’s house in Houston. They averaged about 20 miles an hour on the trip and
finally reached the city after almost 16 hours in the car. Her mother and ten of her relatives are currently
staying with her uncle in Franklin, Louisiana, and plan to remain there for theNext three months. “One of my aunts
knows that she did lose her house,” Hoffman said. “She worked at the New Orleans fairground, which is basically destroyed.
But everyone is basically unemployed.”

“You have no idea what it’s like to go three days without hearing from your father and knowing only that
he was stuck in a city that would eventually be underwater.” —Michael Landis ’06

Hernandez’s family is from Slidell, Louisiana, and evacuated to Hattiesburg, Mississippi on Saturday. They returned to assess the damage to
their home on Tuesday but were forced to leave again because there was no electricity anywhere. “Our house in particular
had two beach ball-sized holes in our roof and six or seven golf ball-sized holes,” Hernandez said. “My dad patched
those up, and we have a condo in Florida, so they just moved there. There were parts of Slidell that
were under 20 feet of water. The gas station on the main road exploded, and every one of the high
schools flooded.”

Landis heard that his father was stuck in his office in downtown New Orleans when the storm hit. He was
safe within the concrete building and managed to return to their home to evaluate the damage. “We were fortunate with
the actual storm and only lost a fence, a bunch of trees, part of our chimney, and some of the
roof shingles,” Landis said. “What has made the situation so terrible for New Orleans is the breach in the levee
that has caused Lake Ponchartrain to literally pour into the city. A full 24 hours after the storm had gone
through, water was making its way through the city towards my home.”

Landis lost contact with his father for three days before finally learning that he had escaped the city with Landis’s
grandmother and her friends. “You have no idea what it’s like to go three days without hearing from your father
and knowing only that he was stuck in a city that would eventually be underwater,” Landis said. “I have no
idea if the flood waters ever reached my house or not, but I can only assume that they did. At
this point, I can’t really pretend to care that much. I was one of the lucky ones who did not
lose any family members. I’m just so thankful that my family is out of the city and healthy.”

As of Monday, fewer than 10,000 people remained in New Orleans. Residents have evacuated to the homes of families and
convention centers and stadiums all over the country. More than 500 evacuees arrived at the Charlotte Coliseum on Monday. Yet
even those who have survived the storm face a grim situation when they are finally allowed to return to their
homes. “Property values will be close to zero after this is all finished, and while many people in the area
have flood insurance, some do not,” Saik said. “Anyone near retirement age is going to have to reconsider, and anyone
living from paycheck to paycheck is going to run into some very hard times. Many areas will have homes that
are completely destroyed, leaving many families with zero personal belongings.”

For Davidson students from Louisiana, the biggest shock will be returning to hometowns in ruins. “New Orleans is like my
favorite city,” Hernandez said. “I was actually happy that the storm had veered off and hit my city harder than
New Orleans. Once you’ve seen that city, it’s like nothing else in the world.”

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2005

Relief, continued from page 1

...way in making them feel comfortable during their recovery.”

The music department is also contributing to the relief effort by sponsoring a 12-hour music marathon in Tyler-Tallman Hall in
the Sloan Music Center tomorrow from noon until midnight. Students and musicians from the community can sign up for a
15-minute time slot by emailing Katy Hoffler. “The idea for a benefit concert hit me last week as I was
watching the horrific images on TV and asking myself what I could do about it,” Associate Professor of Music Neil
Lerner said. “I brought it up with friends and also in classes and encountered similar responses with many other people.
That’s what motivated me to do something quickly.”

“Any assistance we can offer these people will go a long way in making them feel comfortable during their recovery.”
—Quinton McKissick, RLO program coordinator

Performers who are already on the schedule include Davidson piano teachers Ruskin Cooper and Cynthia Lawing, The Four Coursemen, the
Davidson College Concert Choir, and various string and brass ensembles from Davidson’s symphony orchestra. The music department is asking for
donations of $10 and hopes to raise several thousand dollars to donate the proceeds to the Red Cross. “Another goal
is to find a way to give everyone in the community a chance to deal with some of this restless
energy I’ve felt and noticed in others, that sense that so many of us have of wanting to do something,
but not knowing how,” Lerner said. “Besides musical performances, we’re hoping that some other faculty might want to give a
talk relevant to the situation, and I’ve already heard some interest in reading poetry.”

Davidson’s three a cappella groups will host another charity concert on September 15 at 5:45 in the Duke Family Performance
Hall. Tickets will cost $3. “Beads for the Bayou,” a fundraiser led by Patterson Court, will take place at Saturday’s
home football game. Spectators who make donations to the relief effort will receive Mardi Gras beads. SGA will also sell
black-and-red Davidson Pride bracelets in the Union through Friday. “We are so excited that people on campus want to dedicate
their time and energy to the effort,” said Christina Evans ’06, the SGA representative on a hurricane relief committee led
by the Community Service Office. “People want to find a tangible way to help out.”

Students can also make nonmonetary contributions by participating in local blood drives. The Red Cross Club is organizing vans to
drives held at the Mooresville Citizen Center on September 12 and St. Mark’s Lutheran Church on September 26.
