8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Notebook sketches indicate drug problem
See Page 5

Spring Frolics not as fun as rumored
See Page 6

Athletic shorts worn in lieu of Student clearly Thong spotted on Belk lawn
See Page 9

Campus Voices
August T. Wallace IV
Class of '46

I recently received a letter by post about the changes to the Board of Trustees. Let me tell you something, sonny, I am not at all happy. This sort of thing would not have flown one yard out off the ground when I went to Davidson. Back in the good old days, we didn’t even need a rule to keep them off of the Trustees. I'll tell you what, I’m sure that the new members are going to change a lot of stuff around this old school, and all of it for the bad. Those liberals are already getting more power, but now, before you darned well know it, the whole place is going to be Commies. I can already see the difference. First they let women on the board. Look at some of them classes that they teach now about women. Gender relations? Politics of Feminism? American Women to 1870? Back when I was here, we didn’t take no classes about women. We learned everything we needed to from dances with women colleges. And we learned quickly, because by the time we graduated, there were only six men in my class who weren’t married, and they were all as homely as wild boars.

Those ain't the only classes them liberals brought to Davidson. When I visited for Homecoming, I picked up one of them course catalogs, and read it just to see what the heck happened to my school. After looking through that garbage, I’m glad that I retired ten years ago, because my degree sure as heck wouldn’t be worth a half bushel of bad corn at this point. There’s a whole department for Philosophy now? Back when I went here, the only Philosophy we learned was about which was the best way to plant corn. And that wasn’t even for credit. In the old days we didn’t have none of these choices for useless classes neither. In history, we learned one thing, and that was history of the South. And that’s the South US of A, not South America. Nowadays, these students take classes about the history of countries in the Far East? Back when I went here, we didn’t even mention them countries. I wouldn't even want to sit in on a Civil War class today, I bet these liberal professors just fill the students’ heads with a whole bunch of liberal nonsense. In fact, I’d wager my cane that most of these professors are Northerners. The Theology

THE YOWL
Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Editor: Brendan Parets
Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editor at brparets@davidson.edu

Note: If you haven’t been living in a cave for the past year, then you should know that the Yowl is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER
There might be a Yowl next year
April 27, 2005

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 2005

The Davidsonian

According to the fellow students in her English class, it is clear that Junior Annie Elam is a psychology major. Elam, a student in Dr. Jennifer List’s Literary Analysis course, continually refers to her psychology knowledge in her analysis and frequently offers psychological reasons for character behavior. Said Mark Wollers ’07, another student in the English class, “Every time Annie speaks, she always comes back to something she learned in one of her damned psych classes. It’s always Freud said this, Jung believed that. Once in a while, she'll bring up some Erikson guy who I've never heard of. I'll tell you what, I’m sick and tired of hearing about latent sexuality in every book we read. If she says ‘superego’ one more time, I think I’m going to scream.”

Liz Reegs ’05 agreed, “It really annoys me that she always has to show off her knowledge of psychology. I mean, if I had taken a psych class, I’m sure I could spout off the same BS she does.” She continued, “The thing is, though, she doesn’t even apply it well. I seriously doubt that she really understands any of it. After all, it’s for damn sure that Hemingway didn’t have Gestalt Theory in mind when he wrote ‘The Sun Also Rises.’”

Elam, who declared a psychology major the fall of her sophomore year, has also completed her pre-med requirements. While at Davidson, she has taken eight psychology courses. Her concentration is in developmental psychology. This is the first English class she has taken while at Davidson. Elam reportedly makes four or five comments per class, and for the most part, they all refer to at least one aspect of psychology. Her classmates report that her favorite terms include: “misattribution of arousal,” “cognitive dissonance,” and “object permanence.”Department’s gone soft too. In my day, three classes every year were on the Bible. And not on discussing the Bible or nothing. We memorized it. Don’t get me yapping on these new classes there. Let me tell you something else, youngsters. It ain’t just in classes that you got it easier. I read something in the newspaper about you complaining that your sports teams didn’t have enough money. Back in my day, we didn’t have no money at all for sports. The baseball team had to make their own field using Chambers as a backstop. The football team played on a cornfield and didn’t have money for pads, helmets, or jerseys. And, we still went undefeated. I also hear whining about long bus rides. When I went here, we didn’t take buses to games. We either walked or took the train. If we took the train, we walked to the train station. It was easier because we didn’t have to carry any equipment. We also had practice at 4:30 in the morning, because we had to do our military exercises at 7. And then we got 15 minutes to eat breakfast. And, it wasn’t one of these fancy breakfasts the students get now. We got grits, nothing else. If we were lucky, we'd get a little water, but only if it rained that week. If it didn’t rain, we got whiskey. I hear you yap-yappering about Powerade, but I want to see you pansies drink whiskey after your football practice. We had it harder, but it made us stronger. Not like the football team we got now. We would have beat them real bad. We had a halfback that ran like a freight train. “Freight Train” Buck we called him. I remember one time he played with two broken feet and still scored three touchdowns. I'd like to see one of these new football players try that. On the whole, Davidson students are just softer. I don’t know what it is. Could be there’s a bunch of Northerners now. I'll tell you what, it’s only going to get worse. Before you know it, I’m going to wish I went to Washington and Lee.

She defended her comments in class: “Psychology is the lifeblood of understanding people. And, since authors are people, we can use psychology to explore them and the characters that they create. To be honest, I’m sure that the other people in the class are just jealous of my knowledge of human nature, especially the men, whose egos cannot stand to be overshadowed by a woman.” List, the professor in the class, also defended Elam’s analysis. “While she might sometimes miss the mark, or go out on a limb, I do have to applaud Annie’s creativity in her intellectual pursuits. Her knowledge of psychology is just another tool which she can use to better understand the inner workings of literature.” Some claimed that Elam’s behavior is not an isolated incident. Marcus Stroud is in History 122, Europe Since 1815, with Elam. Said Stroud, “She always starts with the psychological crap whenever she speaks. I got really sick of hearing about Napoleon’s avoidant attachment style and how it was related to his authoritarian personality. And, I found it a bit of a stretch when she tried to explain how Soviet Russia fit in perfectly with something called balance theory. Plus, everything always comes down to gender roles. I’m sure it would work fine in a Sociology class, but definitely not here.”

THE YOWL PRESENTS...
GUIDE TO CLASSROOM BEHAVIOR

Over the past semester, we at The Yowl have seen some egregious examples of poor classroom behavior here at Davidson. Even though it might be a little late for this year, we hope that those in violation can learn from our guide for next year.

If you sit in the front row, you may not speak more than three times per class. The amount of permissible speaking increases the farther back you sit. Those in the back are allowed to speak as much as they want. There is never an excuse for prefacing a statement with “in my opinion” or “while I agree with what [student] said.” It is unacceptable to ever ask any question with fewer than two minutes left in class. Please do not nod for the entire class unless the professor is making eye contact. Also, if the professor’s joke is not funny, it is not acceptable to laugh. Under no circumstances should a student ever refer to his or her outside knowledge more than three times a semester. A similar rule prohibits persistent use of upbringing, family sayings, or anecdotes for class discussion purposes. It is usually unnecessary to speak in complete sentences with multiple clauses. There is never a proper time to speak for more than 30 seconds. And if your comment clearly isn’t going anywhere, cut your losses. Professors don’t care about your weekends or how much damn work you have. Do not be the annoying person who takes the lead in small group discussions.