10 Staff Editorial

The future of The Davidsonian

Each year there are 24 issues of The Davidsonian. With 16 pages in each issue, three articles per page, and
500 words per article, that’s over 64,000 words we print each year. Why do it? The answer may seem obvious
enough. There is a need to report news on a campus where other sources of “news” can be indistinguishable from
press releases. While publications like Woodrow, Libertas, and WALT do portray student viewpoints, The Davidsonian is the only campus media
outlet that reports news and does so from a student perspective.

There are two legitimate views on the role of a newspaper. One holds that it should be a paper of
record, simply reporting news. The other demands that it should also be a vehicle for holding others accountable to its
readers. As student editors in a small community, we strongly believe we must follow the latter creed. This “activist” approach
is necessary because Davidson enjoys an atmosphere of trust that, for many of us students, defines life here. This has
a downside, however; questioning anything about Davidson can be seen as questioning Davidson itself. In such a view, sustaining the
all-important sense of community leads to neglect of issues that arise within it.

As journalists within the Davidson community, we strive to rise above this by asking the necessary—though sometimes uncomfortable—questions. Why were
Board of Trustee members required to be members of a Christian church? What impact will a historically black sorority have
on campus social life? Instead of undermining the foundation of trust, this questioning results in more accountability and transparency in
our community.

Journalism can bring important issues to the campus’s attention. Doing so justly, however, requires gaining a sufficient level of objectivity
to determine what is “news.” After all, editors decide what news gets put on the front page, and which sport
events are covered most prominently. Simply put, living up to these ideals of journalism can be a challenge. How can
we be activists and still be objective? Or stated differently, how do we know what issues merit activism?

The solution involves a staff that reflects our primary readership, the student body. Diversity is a word that is sometimes
so overused that it loses meaning. The Davidsonian staff does need diversity, in the sense that we need editors and
writers who together represent all sides of the major issues facing students. Do club athletes need more field space? Are
the college’s hiring priorities meeting the needs of students? Have changes in the dorm policy reduced segregation between sub-free and
non-sub-free students? When these voices are at the table, the newspaper enjoys an internal check-and-balance system against biased coverage. This
allows us to have the objectivity to address issues that matter in the lives of Davidson students.

It should be clear by now that we cannot do this alone. We need students to write, to edit, and
to speak out. Without that, this newspaper, all 64,000 words of it, cannot fulfill its purpose.

The Davidsonian

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel

Managing Editor
Mike Giglio

News Editors
Kate Gillespie, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia

Perspectives Editors
Halley Aelion & Matt Bandyk

Arts & Living Editors
Jarrod Blue & Reid Wildman

Yow! Editors
Bobby Kenner & Jeff Yeakel

Sports Editors
Monica Jamouneau & Pierce Trumbo

Photography Editor
Jessica Hodge

Business Manager
Nick Horton

Advertising & Circulation Managers
Sarah Bogue & Janelle Milanes

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY DECEMBER 7, 2005

Saying goodbye to the Greenspan era

Picture this: A gallon of gas costs just $0.95, a postal stamp costs $0.22, and the Dow Jones is lingering
just below 3000. Things sure have changed since mid-1987! But one thing, or rather, one man, has remained unchanged over
those 18 years. Alan Greenspan has been at the helm of American monetary policy since before I was born, battling
the forces of inflation and unemployment. He’s seen the economy through some of its worst collapses in recent history, including
the 1987 stock market crash. All of this begs the question: what will happen when he’s gone in just over
a month?

One of the strengths of American democracy has been smooth transfers of power, and I expect no less when Ben
Bernanke succeeds him. We won’t see riots on the street, but apart from that, we have only a faint idea
of where the next few years will lead us in terms of policy. After President Bush nominated Bernanke, the big
question on Capitol Hill was whether Bernanke’s policies would provide a continuation of the Greenspan years. After days of hearings,
and his confirmation, we’re still somewhat in the dark about what he will do as Fed Chairman. There have been
some assurances that he would continue Greenspan’s policies, but Bernanke chose his words carefully, revealing almost as little about his
plans as John Roberts earlier this year. Am I surprised? Hardly. After all, Bernanke will succeed the man who uttered
the following words at his own confirmation hearing: “I guess I should warn you, if I turn out to be
particularly clear you’ve probably misunderstood what I said.”

To me, Greenspan’s Fed is reminiscent of Jordan’s Bulls. To say both men are greatly respected would be an understatement;
they have guided their colleagues through toughTimes and are two of the best-known Americans around the world. But just as
the NBA moved on after Jordan’s (third!) retirement, the Fed will continue to guide the American economy, with or without
Alan Greenspan. In a historical way, Greenspan’s retirement is perhaps the end of an era in US monetary policy. But
it’s a change that will affect mostly economic historians, and not consumers’ pocketbooks. Nonetheless, Greenspan will leave a remarkable legacy.
Paul Krugman gave him a unique tribute some years back, “If you want a simple model for predicting the unemployment
rate in the United States over the next few years, here it is: It will be what Greenspan wants it
to be, plus or minus a random error reflecting the fact that he is not quite God.” God he certainly
is not, but he has been knighted by the Queen. Well done Sir Alan!

Aneesh Kulkarni is a freshman from Charlotte, N.C. Contact him at ankulkarni@davidson.edu.

Dear Readers,

My first article for The Davidsonian was poorly written, boring, and buried on the fourth page of the news section.
Not exactly a promising start. But from that humble beginning, I somehow developed a passion for The Davidsonian that has
persisted throughout these three and a half years. This has been, without a doubt, the most challenging and worthwhile of
my Davidson experiences. And I'll miss it — everything from Sunday staff meetings, to Mike’s techno music, to press conferences
with President Vagt, and to Pierce’s constant (and often empty) promises of being finished in five minutes. Most of all,
I’ll miss working with my co-Editor-in-Chief, Brandon. I have deeply admired your dedication to and expectations for what this newspaper
can be; I can’t imagine having done this alone. It’s going to be strange not receiving 300 emails a day
from you. With that all said, bring out the champagne. I’m ready for a retirement party. Oh, and thanks mom
and dad!

-Amee

If we only had a nickel for every time we collectively said, “What in the world did we get ourselves
into?” over the past three and a half years, we’d have easily earned back all our money spent on late-night
Tuesday snacks from the Union Café. While roommates, friends, and professors often doubted our sanity, we both feel that being
part of The Davidsonian has been the most rewarding experience of our time at Davidson. We have both enjoyed a
rare opportunity to explore and to challenge many sides of Davidson. We have been able to push beyond the limit
of the Davidson bubble, reporting on town issues and tying in the responses of the Davidson community to world events.
We covered major changes like the Board of Trustee bylaws reform. We have pushed for new initiatives, like the first-ever
endorsement of an SGA presidential candidate and the establishment of a Code of Ethics for this newspaper.

Yet none of this would have been possible without the work and dedication of so many. Thank you to Liz
Barry, Kate Gillespie, Jackie McKeon, and Ruchi Turakhia in News; Jarrod Blue, Elizabeth Burkhead, Sara Sams, and Reid Wildman in
Arts & Living; Bobby Kenner, Brendan Parets, and Jeff Yeakel in The Yowl; Halley Aelion and Matt Bandyk in Perspectives;
Drew Brookie, Monica Jamouneau, Wilson McCrory, and Pierce Trumbo in Sports; and Sarah Bogue, Nick Horton, Janelle Milanes, and Page
Persons on the business side. We also feel indebted to many faculty and administrators for their input and constant support,
and we want to recognize in particular President Vagt, Dean Bray Merrell, Dr. Sellers, and Bill Giduz. We owe special
gratitude to our late journalism professor, Chuck Hauser. Without the guidance of our predecessors David Crow, Matt Garfield, and Caroline
Hauser, we would have been lost from the beginning.

Finally, to our Managing Editor Mike Giglio: Thanks for your passion and commitment. You really are one of a kind.
We are delighted that Liz Barry will be taking over as Editor-in-Chief next semester. She is one of the finest
editors we have known, and the newspaper could not be in better hands.

So, this is it. Looking back on our Davidson careers, this newspaper has been so intertwined with our experiences that
it now seems strange to look beyond it. Thanks to all of our readers, who made everything worth it. We
hope you will continue to support The Davidsonian. I now have some inkling about what retirement some 40 years from
now must be like. Three and a half years ago, I never thought I would one day need to figure
out how to spend Tuesday nights. I will probably start by trying to get some sleep, but I doubt that
will last too long.

I would like to individually thank my friends, family, professors, and readers for their patience and support through these sometimes
frantic past three years. Now I will need your help as I go through withdrawal! I cannot emphasize enough how
amazing the editors of this newspaper have been to me. Even Ruchi! I jest, but in all seriousness, thank you
all again. Finally, I would be remiss not to thank my co-editor of three years, Amee Patel, for her endless
enthusiasm, dedication, and even the patience to endure my sense of humor. If you know me, you know that is
no small feat. Thank you, Amee, for helping make both the newspaper and this experience the best it could be.

-Brandon
