THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2005 13

Richardson Stadium gets a new look

By SUZIE ECKL
Staff Writer

The signs read, “New Grass, Please Stay on Sidewalk,” but the grass is not the only new thing at Richardson Stadium.

This summer, Davidson College spent $2.5 million building additional seating, a weight room, a press box, and a locker room at the facility.

“The expanded stadium adds to an already wonderful environment,” said Tripp Merritt, Davidson’s newly acquired head football coach, and it is not hard to see the truth in his words.

Gleaming in the sunlight, the freshly-painted seats double the stadium’s previous seating capacity. Above the stands, the new Don Bryant Press Box stands tall over the field and eight-lane track.

As wonderful as the new additions are for Richardson Stadium, some students have expressed doubts as to whether they are practical.

In former football seasons, the stands were largely empty. Now that the stadium can hold twice as many people, will the stands look even emptier, or will more seating attract more students?

Merritt said that the football team must do its part in bringing students to the stadium.

“It is winning that attracts people,” he said, and most students would agree.

The football team may also get a boost from the new Wildcat Pride Program in which students receive punch cards and rewards for attending sporting events. Students also have more seating around the 50-yard line as there are seats on both sides of the field.

What is perhaps the real gem of the expansion resides underneath the stadium.

The Doe Weight Room, named for Gail M. Doe and Ernest G. Doe ’69, attracts many of Davidson’s top athletes because of the variety of free weights and new equipment available there.

Inside, the spirit of Davidson is almost tangible, as the red walls and weight stands contrast with black weights hanging from the racks.

According to John Robbins ’07, an offensive lineman for the ’Cats, the facility is “fantastic.”

The football team practices in the weight room at least twice a week during the season, doing anything from range-of-motion exercises to cardio work.

During the off-season, Merritt intends to use the weight room even more often, at least four times a week, to strengthen the team.

“It really is a Division I weight room,” Merritt said, “and this is important, especially when recruiting.”

However, the weight room is open to everyone, not just varsity athletes. Even when the football team uses the weight room, non-team members often share the space.

Because of the emphasis on free weights, the new facility mainly attracts the more serious athlete, whereas the machines at the fitness center in the Union draw in the casual athletic crowd.

The weight room is open for faculty, staff, and students Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m.

“The weight room is open to everyone, not just athletes: for faculty, staff, and students, Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m.”

In addition, the stadium now includes a new locker room for visiting teams as well as storage space for equipment.

Work on the stadium began shortly after the end of the football season last year and came to a conclusion on Aug. 24.

A dedication will occur at the 'Cats opening game against Greensboro College on Saturday. During halftime, donors to the project will be recognized, and Merritt will visit with fans in the weight room after the game.

The Doe Weight Room, Hubbard Family Locker Room, Don Bryant Press Box, and Wilson Terrace will all be included in the ceremony.

SEPTEMBER 22, 2005

Swedish Program

COME TO AN INFORMATIONAL MEETING
4:00 P.M.

Public Policy
Literature
Economics
Film
Psychology
History
Sociology
Art History
Women’s Studies
Politics
Environmental Studies

3084 CHAMBERS BUILDING

(315) 737-0123

The Swedish Program, Hamilton College, 198 College Hill Road, Clinton, New York 13323

www.swedishprogram.org

Surprise your college kids or campus chums with a yummy ice cream cake. Birthdays, study breaks, exam time, graduation or just for fun!

Ben & Jerry's Homemade Ice Cream

202 South Main St. Davidson, NC.
704-892-0604

Congratulations Seniors!
The Senior Class Gift has reached 70% pledged and paid participation!

President and Mrs. Vagt will make a gift of $12,000 to the Annual Fund if the Senior Class reaches 75% PAID participation!

Please visit our website at www.davidson.edu/giving to make a gift online.

CONTACT LIZ KISS AT LIKISS@DAVIDSON.EDU WITH QUESTIONS!

Seniors, Don't Forget: Wednesday Sept. 12th
PIGAPALOOZA
sponsored by Dining Services
5:30-7:30 pm Courtyard between Hart and Jamison
(rain location: Chambers Gallery)