Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wetland, continued from page 3

into the design of the development or building above the streams and wetlands. The developers have proceeded thus far with a desire to prevent the degeneration of the wetlands through organized and controlled growth. Unfortunately, even the most attentive planning will not avert all the negative impacts that arise from construction. Though development of this area promises to combat ugly urban sprawl through smart growth and eco-friendly planning, the true magnitude of the consequences for the assorted species that inhabit this wetland sanctuary remains unknown.

The developers have planned for approximately 600 homesites as well as additional amenities such as a community center and walking trails. Plans for residential and commercial development are also underway for an additional 1500 acres surrounding NC 73 Davidson-Concord Road and Poplar Tent Road in Cabarrus County.

Above right: Dr. Michael Dorcas and his Herpetology Lab student researchers.
Right: A map of the area that is to be developed.
Below: The wetland that is to be developed is the only place in the area the Eastern Ribbon Snake lives.

MAP QVEST.
— ike 8 Davidson ij po CG 177] ey, von Cornelius %%, (3) : « sc R a ~~ % yY i~J 21) v3 i o % yo & & 2 Hopewell c \ _ 2 ZB 20 a 0) 2 9 3 “A % Or ‘2 | 9 aS e cow ’ o “~ 4 ¥ Se est.com, inc.; © 2005 Tele Atlas

Grant, continued from page 2

throughout the town, in memory of the sheets she used to hang outside her house honoring milestones in the lives of her friends and family. “She took not much and made it into a lot,” former OSS President Brenda Harvey said. “It was more about time and effort.” Harvey is currently chairing the grant committee, which includes Sharon Leahy, Janis Beam, and OSS President Fern Duncan. The committee is looking for applicants who exemplify Jo Anne’s interests and enthusiasm and are dedicated to furthering a service project of their choice. The service project can be attached to other grants since the stipend does not necessarily have to fund the entire project so much as open doors for it to develop into a more dynamic service effort as a whole. The possibility for future expansion of the grant has not been discussed, as Harvey feels confident that the conditions of the grant reflect Jo Anne’s lifestyle and creativity. The committee hopes that the grant will attract students whose work ethic and passion for aiding others already plays a significant role in their lives.

Even after she was diagnosed with lung cancer in October 2004, Jo Anne continued her commitment to service, giving hope to people and organizations and volunteering tirelessly to create a safe environment for youth. Students who are interested in assisting the immediate community with such a project, particularly one that is youth-oriented, are encouraged to apply. Applications for the Fall 2005 grant program must be turned in to the Office of CommunityService and Bonner Scholar Program by October 1.

Peninsula China Bistro
20% OFF (Dine in Only)
Not to be combined with other coupons.

Fine Wines
Full Bar
Contemporary, Friendly Atmosphere
Reservations Accepted
Carryout
Free Delivery (min $20)

5% Anniversary Special
Each Entree

Heidi Edidin
“The Wandering”

LUNCH HOURS
Photo courtesy of College

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2005

CAT-TV, continued from page 1

If Zap-2-It’s services are popular on campus, Associate Director of Residence Life Leslie Urban said the college is considering splitting the screen and running ads on the top half and the television line-up on the bottom. Ads would be free of charge for students, faculty, and student organizations, but local businesses would potentially have to pay an advertising fee. This fee would help offset the costs of the channel and hopefully allow the college to provide it free of charge.

There have also been movies running on channel three, a service provided by the company Resident Life Cinema. RLO has offered to absorb the cost of keeping this movie channel on campus if it draws a strong response from students. “This movie channel is the number one solution to the student issue of not having a movie channel because it was too expensive to contract with a channel such as HBO or Showtime,” said Urban. She added that the calculated cost of running one of those channels would be about five dollars per campus cable outlet per month, but running Resident Life Cinema’s movies would be a feasible cost for RLO to cover.

Urban said the rest of the television line-up is pretty set for the time being. In order to add more channels, the college would have to buy a pricey new dish, something that would not be possible at this point. She said, however, that it is possible for the college to “sub-out” channels, meaning that they can switch current channels with more popular ones. There is no indication that this will occur anytime soon.

To gauge the popularity of the channels with Davidson students, there is a survey running online through September 30, when the temporary services will end. The issues will also be discussed at this week’s SGA meeting.

LAKE NORMAN
Quality repair by people who care!

Confused about where to have your vehicle repaired? Lake Norman Auto & Tire Center is your “One Stop Repair Shop.” We value all our customers and guarantee all work for 14 months or 14,000 miles. Call Lake Norman Auto & Tire for a “free” consultation on any problem you may have with your vehicle. Lake Norman Auto & Tire offers a 10% Labor Discount to ALL DAVIDSON Students, Faculty, and Staff! Additionally, we will provide shuttle service back to campus. Give us a call at 704-892-6590 or email at service@lakenormanauto.com for consultation or to make an appointment!

18705 Statesville Rd
Fax 704-892-6596