THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Committee reports, ATC allocations reviewed

By Emily Kota
Senior Staff Writer

On Thursday, members of the Student Government Association discussed Trustee Liaison Reports, Activities Tax Council (ATC) Spring Allocations, SGA Track Day, and Committee Reports.

The Trustee Liaison Reports consisted of information from several different committees: Athletic Policy, Finance and Budget, College Relations, Admission and Financial Aid, Campus and Religious Life, and Campus and Facilities Planning.

The Athletic Policy Committee liaison Matt Knight ’07 focused on the construction of a new weight room, dissatisfaction with the current nutritionist, and scholarships. The current college endowment is $369 million, according to the Finance and Budget Committee liaison Matt Hassett ’08. Most recently, the committee met with three different funds regarding the college’s investment opportunities. Particularly striking was the number of alumni lending their expertise as an expression of their interest in helping the college make informed investment decisions.

Evaluating the College’s current website in relation to those of comparable institutions was discussed by the College Relations Committee, explained liaison Molly McGowan ’06. Updating the photographs on the website was one proposed change.

The Campus and Facilities Planning Committee focused on the contractor selection process and upcoming construction. According to the Admission and Financial Aid Committee liaison Elizabeth Henry ’08, the numbers are in for the class of 2009 acceptances, the percentage of applicants accepted has dropped due to an increase in the total number of applicants, and standardized test scores have increased.

The ATC Spring 2005 allocations were approved, with the total cost estimated around $434,085. ATC Chair Adam Gerstenmier ’05 explained that SGA is responsible for “administering the Student Activities Tax (one percent of tuition) among Davidson’s chartered student organizations.” Gerstenmier estimated next year’s tax to total around $466,745. The ATC’s recommendations originated from the Council’s desire to “most effectively and fairly allocate its funds among the respective 40 organizations in order to improve the experience of all Davidson students,” said Gerstenmier.

The challenges encountered by ATC this year included an increase in the number of student organizations, continually increasing interest in major events that often overlap, and increased interest in staging “recruiting” experiences for prospective students of minority student organizations. ATC recommended that all student organizations consider collaborating in “efforts to bring the larger campus interest together.” Additionally, while ATC understands the reasoning behind “recruitment” efforts, they do not feel that such activities fall under their responsibility.

Questions were raised by SGA representatives about the funding for the Gender Resource Center (GRC), which appears to have been reduced. The GRC acts as an umbrella for several organizations. The ATC was “disappointed in both their presentation and intermittent activity this year.” While some of the GRC’s organizations exhibited lackluster performance over the past year, the Davidson’s Women’s Committee exceeded ATC’s expectations, resulting in an increase of $810 in their budget.

In other news, SGA representatives discussed plans for the upcoming Sunday’s SGA track day. The day will feature five different events, and members of SGA will help with all the events. SGA members will also be surveying a sample of the student body through an SGA improvement survey. Each representative was instructed to survey at least three classmates each.

The future of CAT-TV was also discussed. President Vagt is excited about the prospect of CAT-TV, but is a bit apprehensive about its “overall general purpose,” according to Christina Boye ’06. Vagt’s concerns are mainly due to the fact that CAT-TV will be in direct competition with other cable TV channels. SGA hopes to start off the station’s programming with college and community news, a program listing guide, and perhaps broadcast lectures, but only in the case of an overflow audience. Students can also look forward to the publication of the next SGA newsletter, which should be out before finals.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 2005

Speaker inspires debate on hip hop’s role in society

By Darcie Draudt
Special Contributor

Some might argue that music—especially popular and ethnic music—tends to be neglected in academic discussions. However, John McWhorter’s divisive address in Duke Family Performance Hall last night, along with the flurry of comments and questions that followed, proved that hip hop music can and should be discussed as an authentic provocation within American society.

In “Getting Past Race,” McWhorter, a Manhattan Institute Senior Fellow in Public Policy, spoke on what he believes are the non-revolutionary aspects of hip hop music, which many academics credit as a revolutionizing force for socioeconomic and political change among African Americans. McWhorter holds a doctorate in linguistics from Stanford University, and French and Romance languages from Rutgers University. He published his firstBook, “Losing the Race: Self-Sabotage in Black America,” in 2000. Since then, he has moved into the public realm to speak on what he believes is the failure of hip hop to properly lead the revolution that many claim it already does. “It’s the very simple idea that hip hop is a new idea, and that it’s progressive,” McWhorter said. “The point is not that hip hop is wrong, and it’s not that I’m offended by profanity. I don’t think it’s a good idea to think that that music is pointing us ahead.”

As McWhorter fielded questions from the audience and after the lecture, many students debated whether contemporary hip hop has a revolutionary quality. Marc Vinson ’05 doubts artists intended hip hop to play a political role. “Hip hop is not a revolution,” Vinson said. “Few people in the hip hop industry would claim hip hop is a revolution. We need to be careful about our language, because it never posited itself to be a revolutionary force.”

Erin Stephens ’05 said that she considers hip hop a powerful social commentary on what goes on in the lives of many people whom political leaders may neglect. “The thing about rap which is different is that this is poetry, spoken word. With a fresh beat, it can say a whole lot,” Stephens said. “Hip hop offers a social commentary on something.”

To McWhorter, the commentary merely presents the state of things and fails to present a helpful action. He cited a professor at Syracuse University who taught the course “Queen Bitch,” entirely about the female rapper Lil’ Kim as a figure of “power, pleasure, and privilege.” McWhorter explained that some academics, including the professor who offered this course, believe hip hop will “lift the people on the bottom.” However, he thinks this is an empty revolution. “Is this a politician?” he asked. “Lil’ Kim is a recording artist. She isn’t saying anything to help the woman who’s just got off welfare, or to break through the vestiges of the glass ceiling.”

McWhorter said that three aspects of the alleged conscientious rap, which includes artists like Mos Def, the Roots, and Talib Kweli, and certainly mainstream rap contribute to its failure to transform the modern social and political scene as it relates to African Americans. First, he said that the ghettoscapes, which he dubbed a “hopped up Tracy Chapman,” attempt to raise awareness about the reality of inner-city life. “But if you’re just showing it, where do you go to the revolution?” he questioned. McWhorter doubts that Vice President Dick Cheney or Republican Senator Rick Santorum will listen to, much less glean any goals for change from, this hip hop. He also contrasted the politics of this hip hop with the politics of former African American revolutionaries, including Malcolm X and Martin Luther King, Jr., who set tangible goals and knew what they were going to do.

Secondly, McWhorter said that these artists convey a sense of defeatism by demanding revolution without supporting it with solutions. “Hip hop emphasizes ‘black people on the bottom, black people on the bottom, black people on the bottom,’” McWhorter said.

Third, the hip hop of today, McWhorter claims, “has a certain female problem.” He criticizes hip hop academics who step around this issue by claiming that sexual harassment is not unique to the hip hop culture. “I don’t know of a music in the history of Homo sapiens as blatantly and consistently misogynistic [as hip hop],” McWhorter said.

Although McWhorter said that music that sounds like the Barber Shop movies might infuse activism into hip hop, he doesn’t see hip hop developing the ability to lead and to revolutionize like African American leaders of the 1960s could. Vinson and Stephens present two more views on the future of hip hop and its potential effects on culture and politics. Vinson does not think it has the deep revolutionary power that many academics assert. “The question is, ‘What can it revolutionize?’ We can see how many homes it reaches. Can it revolutionize? Yes. Would I look up to it? No,” Vinson said.

But for Stephens, the aura of hip hop strongly stirs awareness and potentially activism. “It’s new; it’s different—look at the new avenues it’s created and the new avenues it creates for the future. Hip hop has that power. Maybe it doesn’t have it now, but I think it can,” Stephens said.

McWhorter has written for the Wall Street Journal and the Washington Post. In January 2006 he plans to publish his next book, which compares the transition of African American activism between the year 1960 and 1970 to the transition today.

Join America’s #1 Student Tour Operator. 1-800-648-4849 / www.ststravel.com