GDhe Dabvidsontan @ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @ DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2005 VOLUME 96, NUMBER 22

Belk, Smith resign from Board
Actions follow in wake of change in trustee religion requirement

By David Crow
Editor-in-Chief Emeritus

John Belk '43 and Steve B. Smith '66 both resigned in late March in protest of the Board of Trustees’ recent change allowing non-Christians on the board. Belk and Smith were two of the five members of the board to vote against the proposed changes, while 31 members supported the changes.

“We regret [their resignations] a great deal,” said President Vagt. “We will miss their guidance and counsel.” John McCartney '74, Chairman of the Board of Trustees, echoed Vagt’s sentiments about Belk, saying, “John Belk and his family have been magnificent supporters and benefactors, and I understand and respect his disagreement and we continue to be appreciative of everything he’s done.”

While both resigned in protest, each man had a slightly different reason. Belk’s resignation was largely the result of his disagreement with the board’s decision. “I was against the change and I got voted down,” Belk said. “I think Davidson ought to remain a Christian school governed by Christians.” Smith’s resignation was based mostly on his objections to the process by which this change came about. “My view of the process was it was basically someone’s personal agenda to get this rule changed, and the process was orchestrated to get that end,” he said.

The specific vote included allowing up to 20 percent of the board to be composed of non-Christians, revising the College’s Statement of Purpose in order to reinforce Davidson’s commitment to its Reformed heritage and the addition of an endowed chair specializing in Reformed theology.

Disagreement over the change
Belk’s resignation centered on his fundamental belief that, as a Christian college, Davidson should be completely governed by Christian individuals. “If the trustees are not all Christian, then it weakens the school and takes away what makes us unique,” he said. Smith was not completely opposed to allowing non-Christians on the board, saying that he would not be opposed to allowing non-Christian alumni to serve on the board. He was, however, opposed to the board’s reasoning that allowing non-Christians on the board was in line with Davidson’s Presbyterian heritage.

See Trustees, page 5

Number of missing library books reaches ten-year high
By Blevin Shelnutt
Senior Staff Writer

Five hundred and eighty-four books have been reported lost from the E.H. Little Library according to a memo sent by Library Director Leland Park on March 30. The number of missing library books has not been this high in over ten years. Only once since the 1995-1996 school year has the number of missing books surpassed 200.

The books were declared lost upon the completion of an inventory of over 600,000 items that began in June. The inventory covers a two-year period; consequently, an average of nearly 300 books was lost each year. “Few libraries in the country take a complete annual inventory,” Park said.

See News, page 2

Meals going to waste?inventory as do we,” Park said. “It’s something of which we are very proud, for it means our catalogue is current and our stacks get back in order.”

Though Park described the number of missing books as “amazingly low,” considering between 50,000 and 60,000 items are checked out each year, he said 584 lost books is still an unacceptable number. Many valuable books have not been recovered, including 54 general reference books, four chemistry reference books, and 12 videos. The costs of these replacements are covered by individual departments’ library accounts, consequently draining the department’s ability to purchase new items and texts.

Generally, half of the books reported lost are returned within the next two years. Sixty-one books previously reported as lost, some as long as 15 years ago, were found or returned, according to this year’s inventory. The library prides itself on its book return system and history. Many tour guides point out the lack of book-detection devices in the library doorways to prospective students and describe Davidson’s success rate in maintaining its inventory.

See Books, page 4

Students in Dr. Cynthia Lewis’s Performing Shakespeare class rehearse a scene from “Much Ado About Nothing.”

Something from ‘Nothing’
By Liz BARRY
News Editor

After a hearty potluck meal, the sixteen members of English Professor Cynthia Lewis’s Performing Shakespeare class devoted their Saturday night to sewing colorful Elizabethan-wear. The late-night “sewing party” was one of countless ways the class prepared for the production of “Much Ado About Nothing,” which opens at 7:30 p.m. Friday night in the Chambers Gallery.

“There’s nothing like a sewing circle at a professor’s house on a Saturday night to encourage class cohesion,” said Putnam Ivey ’05, who plays Friar Francis and Sexton. “And I have to admit, we’re all bona fide Shakespeare nerds.”

The student-run play is the culminating project of the intensive Performing Shakespeare course, which emphasizes the study of Shakespeare through performance. The play runs Friday through Tuesday and tickets cost $4. Lewis selected “Much Ado About Nothing” because many of its themes resonate with college students. Full of wit, deception, and folly, “Much Ado About Nothing” recounts the tumultuous love affairs of four young lovers.

“It is also about the way words complicate things and deceive and get in the way,” Lewis said. “Thinking too much and not thinking enough both get you into trouble in this play and I think that our students can relate to that.”

Lewis said that Davidson students may be able to relate to the relationship between Beatrice

See Play, page 3

Mock Trial places at Nationals

The Davidson College Mock Trial Team took seventh place out of 64 teams at the American Mock Trial Association National Championship in Des Moines last weekend.

“Given the intensity of the competition and the talent of the other attending schools, I was extremely excited about our seventh place finish,” said team vice-president Andrea Wood ’07. “The team really came together at the end."

The culture of crew
see SPORTS, PAGE 19

Political correctness run amok
see PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 15