THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2005

Colts still undefeated, headed for Superbowl
By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Senior Staff Writer

How ’bout them Packers? How ’bout them Eagles? How ’bout them Bengals??? Seriously, when was the last time Cincinnati boasted a winning team in any sport outside college? The NFL this year has been turned on its head in more than a few ways. Even my Panthers are acting weird—and by weird I mean normal, which is weird for them. The one team, however, that is finally doing what people expected them to do is the Colts.

The question that has been plaguing “Pardon the Interruption” for months: “Will the Indianapolis Colts go undefeated?” The fact that they keep asking the question and the Colts keep winning indicates that the answer is yes more and more, but personally, I doubt it. The next three weeks bring Jacksonville, San Diego, and Seattle knocking on the 12-0 door of Indy. This year, I would not want to put my money against any of those teams on a given week (although with Leftwich and Taylor injured, the Jags will be struggling). The Colts’ defense has been almost as dominant as their offense this year, but it’s not a huge stretch to say that the L-Train will rack up some yardage against them. So regardless of whether Dungy rests the Edge, Manning, or any others, I say the Colts won’t make it unblemished.

I have to say that I am glad the Texans got that win over Cleveland earlier, or else they might make it to the end of the season with a different brand of perfection. After watching them self-destruct against the Rams, I think their odds against even the likes of Tennessee, Arizona, and San Francisco are pretty poor. But enough about teams at the bottom of the barrel. Damn the wheel of fortune.

It seems that the Panthers, if they hold onto the NFC South, will play the Bears in the first round of the playoffs. The 13-3 loss to Chicago’s defense and former Panther Muhsin Muhammad was ugly, painful, and disheartening. Part of me wants to avenge the loss in the playoffs, the other part wants to avoid that brick wall labeled with the letter “D” and the Bears logo. Seriously, that game is a toss-up. The winner, however, will have an interesting situation. Because I am calling the Seahawks to bulldoze either the Giants or the Cowboys. Whichever NFC East team comes out on top of that truly bizarre division, Seattle has beaten both in the regular season. The Cowboys and Giants duked out a really, really ugly game on Sunday. After seeing that, I feel sorry for both teams; it was flat out un-pretty. My dad will kill me for writing this, but it is not the Giants’ year. Barring another franchise day from Tiki Barber, the G-Men don’t have the offense to match Shaun Alexander’s feet of fury.

Now, after that, the Seahawks have either the Panthers or the Bears. If they face Carolina, I think it is another toss-up; both teams have an erratic performance history and the potential either to blow the other out or to blow themselves apart. If they face the Bears, I will quote some famous person who said that defense wins games, but offense wins championships. Sorry, but when I have to look up the first name of yourQuarterback to write in that Kyle Orton averages 132.6 yards a game passing, you’re in trouble. So from the NFC, my pick is Seahawks or Panthers, depending. In the AFC, life is more complicated. I’ll go out on a limb and say San Diego will overtake the Broncos in that Week 17 matchup. That will determine the division champion, and I predict it will be the Chargers. In that event, they will play the Bungles, who stole the division from an anemic Pittsburgh. That game is tough to call, but I think San Diego might be on a roll at that point and be able to hold back Cincinnati’s high-scoring offense enough to win. Of course, they could also be exhausted, given that their end-of-season schedule is far stronger than Cincinnati’s. Only time will tell. And while the Pats somehow have managed to put together a winning record and are on top of their division, I give them about a 15-minute lifespan in the playoffs. They will most likely play the Colts in the first round, and it would take a miracle to get New England out of the first quarter without a heavy deficit. After that, a steady diet of Manning, James, Harrison, and a smothering defense should put the Brady Bunch back on the couch with such force that they may want to stay seated for the entire off-season. Betting against the Colts in the AFC Championship game is silly. I mean, so what if they have choked in that game the last two years? This year they get to dropkick Belichick and his boys in the first game of the playoffs, so they shouldn’t have any trouble in round two, right? And somewhere, the same mischievous Puck who planned both of the MLB Championship Series in 2003 is cackling and waiting to make the Colts another playoff legend. But I say not this year. Colts vs. Panthers/Seahawks, February 5, 2006. And I dare not predict the winner. Super Bowls are freaky things. Just one game, just 60 minutes of football; one team gets hot and another gets cold, and it could be the biggest upset or the biggest blowout in memory. Nacho sales, however, look good for the next two months, and you can quote me on that.

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals
Adjunct professor of trial advocacy

THE LOGY LAW FIRM
We Are Proud To Be Your Neighborhood Law Firm
Concentrating in Personal Injury
Mecklenburg County Real Estate
Duke Law School Executive Council ‘03 to present.
UNC Law School

Other Areas of Practice
Appeals, Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning, Family Law, Litigation, Real Estate, Wills & Trusts

In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. University of Richmond
Commissioner for the Town of Davidson 83-85; 88-97
Town of Davidson Commercial and North End Corridor Plan ‘05