THE DAVIDSONIAN

Trustees, continued from page 1

heritage. “It just doesn’t make sense to me how opening the board to non-Christians doesn’t weaken our traditions,” said Smith.
“Trying to couch this in the Reformed tradition is very insulting to me.”

Many other trustees did accept the argument that allowing non-Christians on the board did not lessen Davidson’s Christian heritage. Rev.
John Rogers ’63, a Presbyterian minister and trustee who had originally voiced concern about opening the board to non-Christians, voted
in support of the change. “I don’t think Davidson has acted in a way to distance itself from its Christian
commitment at all,” said Rogers. “This is consistent with our Reformed tradition and shows a confident, critical openness to other
perspectives.”

Rogers did, however, accept that there could be significant disagreement over such complex theological issues. “I don’t think there was
a right side and a wrong side in this issue,” he said. “This is a matter about which people of
good faith can disagree.”

Stacking the deck?

Smith believes that the process of this change was biased in favor of getting rid of the Christian requirement for
trustees. Specifically, Smith pointed to the fact that Roy Davis ’55, the trustee who chairs the standing Committee on Campus
and Religious Life and who had been opposed to changing the requirement, was not appointed as part of the ad-hoc
committee that ultimately recommended getting rid of the requirement. “It seems obvious that you would include Davis since he’s the
chairman of the standing committee, but he was not invited to join,” said Smith.

McCartney, who appointed the members of the ad-hoc committee, said there was no deliberate attempt to bias the committee’s ultimate
recommendation by excluding Davis or through any other means. “I, by no means, intended to snub Roy Davis,” McCartney said.
“I did specifically want the trustees who are currently pastors to serve on that committee, and both John Rogers and
Art Ross agreed. Other than that I just wanted to ensure there was adequate representation from alumni-elected trustees and alumni
ex-officio trustees.”

“My view of the process was it was basically someone’s personal agenda to get this rule changed and the process
was orchestrated to get that end.” --Steve Smith ’66

Davis, who ultimately was one of the five trustees to vote against the change, did not in any way feel
he was deliberately excluded from the process or that the selection of the committee was biased. “When this issue came
up John [McCartney] told me that he had considered asking me if I would serve, but knowing I had recently
served on two other ad hoc committees, he felt I had done enough service on ad-hoc committees,” Davis said. “I
am convinced that there was no ulterior motive by my not being asked to serve on the committee.”

Amnesty International launches Darfur humanitarian crisis awareness campaign

By AMEE PATEL AND LIZ BARRY
Editor-in-Chief and News Editor

Amnesty International has launched campus-wide efforts to raise awareness of the humanitarian crisis in Darfur, a western region in Sudan,
where, according to the U.S. State Department, genocide is taking place. According to a recent CNN report, over 200,000 civilians
have died, and two million more have been displaced from their homes since early 2003. The United Nations has labeled
Darfur as the “worst humanitarian crisis in the world.”

Paul Rusesabagina, the real-life hero of the acclaimed film Hotel Rwanda, will deliver a speech entitled “Hotel Rwanda: A Lesson
Yet to be Learned,” on Sunday in the 900 room. He will connect his story with present-day African conflicts and
international foreign policy. Associate Professor of Political Science Ken Menkhaus teaches a seminar entitled “Humanitarianism and War” and commented on
the importance of Rusesabagina’s visit. “He is a living reminder of the power an individual can have in saving lives,”
Menkhaus said. “That’s what is being demanded of us and our leaders.”

After the Rwandan genocide of 1994, leaders around the world uttered the words “Never Again” and vowed to prevent future
genocides from occurring. “Certainly the parallel between the genocide in Rwanda and the situation in Darfur is compelling,” Menkhaus said.
“Now is the moment the world’s commitment to never again allow genocide is being tested.”

In conjunction with Rusesabagina’s talk, Amnesty International has set up aHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning
and punctuation:

---

Table in the Union through Friday where students can learn about the situation in Darfur and contribute to lobbying efforts.
Davidson students will be encouraged to call their senators and ask them to support the Darfur Accountability Act, which calls
for direct U.S. and international action to confront the crisis. Nate Shestak ’07, who spearheaded “Darfur at Davidson,” explained the
goals of Amnesty’s efforts. “We would like students to become aware of where Sudan is, and what is going on
there,” he said. “Secondly, we are hoping to make some real waves in our lobbying for the Darfur Accountability Act.”

Amnesty International is also hosting a free screening of Hotel Rwanda tonight in the 900 Room.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2005

Alumni letters

Smith’s other objection to the process centered around what he felt was the inadequate attention paid to alumni responses to
the recommended changes prior to the trustees’ vote. Following the ad hoc committee’s recommendation that the Christian requirement for trustees
be changed, the Alumni Association sent out a packet to all 17,000 Davidson alumni in December, informing them of the
proposed bylaw changes and asking for their input.

“The cover letter sent to alumni was very vague about what was being proposed,” said Smith. “You had to either
look at attachments or go to a website. It was not clear from the cover letter that the proposal was
to change the trustee religion requirement.”

The cover letter sent to the alumni said, “The Trustees are considering a series of recommendations, which were placed before
them at their October meeting, with respect to the requirements for being a Trustee.” The cover letter did not specifically
mention that the requirement under consideration was the requirement that all trustees be Christian; however, the attachments included in the
packet did include the full proposal by the board.

In response to the packets sent out to the alumni, the President’s office received 122 written responses prior to the
trustees’ vote on the proposal at their February meeting. Smith said that he was never given the opportunity to read
those letters carefully before he was asked to vote, and he believes that these letters were deliberately withheld from the
board. “I was left with the distinct feeling that some people didn’t want these letters to be seen,” Smith said.

McCartney defended his decision not to distribute the letters to all members of the board prior to their vote. “The
ad hoc committee had reported to the trustees on the number of letters we received and how many seemed pro
or con or neutral,” McCartney said. “It was my assessment, in concurrence with the chair of the ad hoc committee,
that the trustees had adequate information on which to make their decision and did not need to receive every letter.”

Vagt agreed with McCartney’s reasoning saying, “All of the letters were seen by some trustees so that when the trustees
acted they felt they were conversant with all the issues.”

Future implications

704-895-4412

Across From The Movies @ Birkdale in Beautiful Birkdale Village

STUDENT SPECIAL! 2 Mystic Tans for the price of one.

Despite their resignations, both Belk and Smith’s feelings towards Davidson as an institution and towards its student body have not
faltered. “I’m still in favor of the students and my money will continue to go towards the student body, but
not towards other causes,” said Belk in continuing his commitment to the Belk Scholars program, which, with the class of
2009, now offers ten comprehensive scholarships to Davidson College.

Smith voiced his support for the institution, but said he cannot support the current administration. “The school transcends the current
leadership of the school, but I can’t abide by a flawed process on something this important,” he said.

McCartney acknowledged that with any significant decision there is the potential for strong disagreement, regardless of what the Board decides.
“This issue and the outcome represents a sign of change for Davidson and anytime there is significant change there is
the risk of disagreement,” said McCartney. “The result that a number of our alumni don’t agree with the decision was
expected and understandable. I think people would have been disappointed regardless of what decision was made.”
