THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2005 13

Building the perfect ’Cat: team depth highlights success

By BRIAN HELFRICH
Senior Staff Writer

The great Vince Lombardi once said, “The achievements of an organization are the results of the combined effort of each individual.” Caught in the shadows of the 14-0 start by the men’s team in the Southern Conference, the women’s basketball team (15-9, 12-5) is putting together quite a fine season of their own. After a tough start to the season, the Wildcats have won six of their last seven and eight out of 10 to clinch a first-round bye in the upcoming SoCon tournament.

If you look at the statistics, however, you will not see the dominating play of one or two women carrying the squad. For example, only two players, Katie Hamilton ’07 and Emily Callahan ’05, are currently averaging double-digit scoring. The ’Cats’ success instead stems from their unusually deep core group of players. Instead of experiencing a normal drop-off in production from the starters to the bench, Davidson has created a legitimate eight-player rotation by going to the bench for depth in all areas. As Watts says, “Our motto is ‘defend by committee.’” On a given night, any one of the players in the regular rotation can step up and lead on the offensive or defensive end.

In Saturday’s victory over Elon, Hamilton and Danielle Hemerka ’08 each scored 16 points to lead Davidson. In the previous game, a close loss to conference powerhouse Chattanooga, Jessica Mitchell ’07 led the ’Cats with 22 points. Three games ago, four Wildcats scored in double figures. The selfless play that strengthens the Davidson squad is a luxury that was not present to the same degree at the beginning of this season, when the ’Cats limped to a 7-7 start. Even clearer is the disparity in depth between this year’s team and last year’s. No one understands the importance of team play quite like Watts, “I just can’t say enough about this team. Our opponents are charged with having to stop all of us. We have no stars but a bright and shining team,” she says.

Thus, we bring you the ultimate Wildcat from head to toe.

Head: Smartest - Jessica Mitchell ’07
At Davidson, it is a foregone conclusion that every student-athlete will be smart. On the court, however, Mitchell stands alone. While she averages more than seven points per contest, it is her intelligence on the court, both offensively and defensively, that helps lead the ’Cats each game.

Hands: Smoothest - Emily Callahan ’05
Callahan uses her size and silky-smooth outside shot to serve as one of the most versatile Wildcat players. At 6’0”, she is among the taller players on the court, and she shows it in averaging five rebounds a game. She also connects on nearly 37 percent of her three-point attempts, making her one of the best shooters on the team. A week ago, Callahan also became one of the few Wildcats to go over the 1,000-point career scoring mark.

Feet: Fastest - Tia Washington ’07
A team will only go as far as its point guard can guide it, meaning the ’Cats are in good hands with Washington, who is both the fastest and shortest player on the roster. She uses her tremendous speed to distance herself from her opponents, and her quickness allows her to penetrate into the lane and get the ball to her teammates. Washington has handed out a team-high 86 assists on the season, including a career-best 10 in last week’s game against Elon.

Legs: Rebounding - Brynn Kelly ’07
One of the first fundamentals that basketball coaches preach is rebounding. Kelly uses textbook form, height, and a hunger for the loose ball to form the ’Cats’ most dominating presence on the boards.

Hips: Defense - Danielle Hemerka ’08
Every coach likes a player who can score, but coaches really love a player that can defend. The best defenders don’t play defense with their arms but instead keep their legs and hips square with the ball to stay in position at all times. Hemerka can certainly score, as she provides Davidson with a genuine low-post presence, but it is her defense that stands alone on the team.

Heart: Hustle - Katie Hamilton ’07
It’s no coincidence that, on a squad that preaches teamwork, the leading scorer and rebounder is also the best hustler. Points, rebounds, and loose balls do not come easily for the star guard. Instead, she earns each and every basket and board she picks up, which is even more impressive when you consider she is averaging over 15 points and six rebounds per contest. “Katie does everything a coach could ever ask for in a player,” said Watts. “She plays aggressive, hard-nosed defense every time down the court and on offense, [she works hard] even when her shot isn’t falling.”Sure, here is the cleaned OCR text with preserved original meaning and punctuation:

---

Spark - Janell Crayton ’06

Every team needs a spark plug, a player it can count on to give an emotional lift whenever necessary. Each Wildcat brings energy to the floor, but no one can equal the intensity that Crayton provides. Crayton is third on the team with 39 steals, and she is tied for the team lead with 20 blocks.

Torso: Intangibles - Katie Delk ’06

Delk isn’t flashy, but she often pulls everything together for the 'Cats. Statistically, Delk does not stand out quite like her other teammates, even though she is tied with Crayton for the team lead in blocks. Still, the improvements she has made in all aspects of her game this season and throughout her career earn Delk the team’s most improved player award and the “Ms. Intangible” moniker.

From Waco to a Wildcat: Kosmalski’s road to Davidson

By WALKER SAIK Senior Staff Writer

Kosmalski left high school in Texas as the number six recruit in the state, and he initially headed off to Baylor and the Big-12 Conference to play college ball. What he didn’t realize was that the Baylor basketball program would be as chaotic as a Pauly Shore movie, and as luck would have it, he transferred here after his sophomore year.

“I just had problems at Baylor with team chemistry and didn’t think it’d be the right situation for me,” said the 6’8”, 230 lb. senior. “I thought I’d be better off at a small program, and my brother [Landry Kosmalski ’00] had played and graduated from Davidson in 2000 and had a good experience.”

The problems in Waco, TX, in fact, blew up the year after Kosmalski transferred. The year after he left, Baylor player Patrick Dennehy disappeared and was later found dead. Now, his former roommate and teammate, Carlton Dotson, is on trial for Dennehy’s murder. Soon afterwards, major NCAA violations, including money shuffling and drug use, emerged.

Comparing the two programs, Kosmalski describes them as “night and day.”

“Our team chemistry is really amazing. All the guys are really good friends, and that has everything to do with our success,” said Kosmalski, who claims his biggest problem at Baylor was the team’s failure to bond off the court. “Playing with [Davidson] is a totally different experience than playing with guys at Baylor who didn’t care about me at all. It’s just completely different,” he said.

After sitting out a year due to NCAA rules, Kosmalski immediately made an impact on the court, becoming one of the top rebounders in the SoCon and providing a killer double-team with Nick Booker ’05. With Booker graduating early, however, Kosmalski is the last true physical force on the team, yanking down nearly double the rebounds than the next best Wildcat, Ian Johnson ’05.

Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski agrees, as he said after the Duke-Davidson game that “Kosmalski played a man’s game—he was the best big man on the court and gave them a presence, and he lifted his team with that.” That says a lot, given he was up against a potential first-team All-ACC performer in Shelden Williams.

While it’s difficult to start throwing around MVP terms, with Johnson’s .549 field-goal percentage, Brendan Winters’ (’06) 16.8 points-per-game average, Kenny Grant’s (’06) flawless control of the offense, and Matt McKillop’s (’06) three-point stroke, Logan Kosmalski ’05 has carried the load inside for Davidson. He is the glue that holds the team together. He is the presence in the paint that Davidson desperately needs, being as close to an automatic two as you can get every time he catches the ball on the blocks. To top it off, he’s got a great group of guys around him in the paint. With fellow senior Conor Grace and Johnson adding both offensive and defensive support, it’s a great core of guys for the freshmen to learn from.

“Even though Boris [Meno ’08] and Thomas [Sander ’08] don’t play as much as they can, they give us great players to practice against,” said Kosmalski. “They give us really good competition in practice and minutes when they get in the game. The added rest that they give Ian, Conor, and I in the games will really help us out in the long run.”

Besides enjoying his teammates’ camaraderie, Logan has also appreciated having his brother Landry on the Wildcat coaching staff.

“He’s been somebody I can talk to as a coach, as a friend, and as a brother,” said Logan, whose season averages include 11.2 points and 8.2 rebounds per game. “I can talk to him like I wouldn’t talk to any other coach.”

After graduation, Logan is looking to continue his playing career like so many of the previous Davidson grads.

“A lot of Davidson guys have had a lot of success going overseas, and if I have to do that, I’m doing it. I just want to play for as long as I can and make money while I’m doing it.”