THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

Applauding mixed reactions

By SARA SAMS
Arts & Living Editor

Ambiguous characters place a delicate responsibility in the hands of theatrical interpreters, directors, and actors alike, and spark a heated debate over the accuracy of character portrayal.

Shakespeare, undeniably a master of his trade, did not wield ambiguity carelessly—each line and every heartfelt absence of lines are purposeful. Characters such as Julius Caesar are meant to leave the audience questioning the intentions and morality.

The question of the hour, then, is not of accuracy, but whether it is possible for a performance to embed too many unsubstantiated decisions; whether modern interpretations interfere with the original intent of the verse.

What needs to be understood is that the magic of drama is its malleability: what might be gathered from reading words on the page may be transformed on stage.

The play is not as constant as Caesar claims himself to be, and possibly even less so than Shakespeare might have hoped. But it is best to avoid viewing a dramatic production with myopic eyes.

The dichotomy that is created between personal character interpretations and a production’s portrayal of such characters should be embraced, and an investigation of varying responses is called for.

And though different choices made at the production level might stray from the original text (though some performances are so rootless from Shakespeare’s writing that they do lose original intent), it is the ability of drama to explore new presentations that allows plays to remain popular for over 400 years.

The actors and even the characters know they are giving a presentation to a mulling audience. Such awareness is itself included in the text, as Cassius proclaims to the audience: “How many ages hence/Shall this our lofty scene be acted over/In states unborn and accents yet unknown?” (III.1).

Students’ vigorous dissension in response to the Company’s powerful production of “Julius Caesar” should not be surprising. The inexistence of healthy disagreement would be revealing of an inferior production, and the plethora of reactions rather relates the substance and talent packed into the final presentation.

It is no question that the RSC’s “Julius Caesar” was livened by the company’s own interpretations and decisions, even those arguably unintended by the playwright.

What did you think of ‘Julius Caesar’?

“The RSC’s costume choice, particularly for Caesar, sometimes interfered with my understanding of the play. The “tribunes” in the opening scene are dressed in leather jackets and jeans—identical to the clothes worn by the “commoners” described in the text. Caesar’s shockingly dramatic shift in dress over the course of Act II—from a Western suit to a Colonel Kadafi military tunic—would seem to indicate a similarly dramatic change in the way we should understand Caesar over this period, yet no such shocking about-face occurs in the text. Caesar’s costume change is too harsh; subtler choices would have been more appropriate.”
Henry van Wagenberg ’07

“‘Julius Caesar’ was the most inventive stage interpretation of all the RSC productions I have seen, and I thought, on the whole, the dramatic risks the directors took were very successful. It was astute but not heavy-handed in its commentary on contemporary issues, and despite the barrage of technology and machine guns, the emphasis was ultimately on performing Shakespeare’s language. ‘Two Gents’ had a doggy, though.”
Jimmy Newlin ’05

“Caesar was portrayed as a tyrant with manic-depressive disorder.”
Rob Rusch ’08

“Personally, I was disappointed and borderline offended by the casting of Caesar in contrast to that of Calpurnia. The image of the old balding white man with his young, black trophy wife conjured up images of slave-owner/mistresses that I have been exposed to growing up in Mississippi. The use of an African-American woman as an “oracle” of sorts (through Calpurnia’s dream sequence) also conjured up the voodoist stereotypes of the African-American woman in post-slavery America.”
David Dennis ’08

“I enjoyed RSC’s ability to make the language of Shakespeare applicable in universal settings. It was brilliant.”
Scott Buckhout ’07

Lake Norman’s Finest Italian

All Students, Faculty, and Staff receive 20% off with CatCard!

FREE MEDIUM CHEESE PIZZA