2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Three finalists interviewed for Dean of Admission position

Search committee to make recommendation by end of this week

By JOHN WATKINS
Staff Writer

Since the beginning of the summer, Davidson College has been looking for someone to permanently fill the position of Dean
of Admission and Financial Aid, a role currently held by Acting Dean of Admissions Chris Gruber. The three candidates for
the position are Gruber, William Bynum ’84, and Julie Browning.

The six members of an executive search committee formed to recommend a replacement include French professor Dr. Homer Sutton, psychology
professor Dr. Julio Ramirez, biology professor Dr. Karen Bernd, Director of Human Resources Carl Sorensen, Vice President of College Relations
Kristin Bradberry, and President Bobby Vagt. As many as 55 candidates participated in the initial process before the list was
narrowed to 18 individuals. Eleven of those candidates were offered airport interviews, and three were invited to visit the school.
Since last Tuesday, each of these three candidates has had two days to visit and become familiar with Davidson.

Gruber was the first candidate to be introduced to students. He welcomed this year’s freshmen during orientation by speaking about
the breadth and profundity of the class’s accomplishments. Gruber served as the Director of Admissions at the University of Richmond
before being appointed Director of Admissions at Davidson in February 2005. He took over as Acting Dean of Admissions after
Dean Nancy Cable left for the University of Virginia at the end of the last school year.

Bynum, another candidate for the position, is currently Vice President of Student Affairs and Enrollment Management at Lincoln University in
Pennsylvania. He spoke last Tuesday on topics that included the Honor Code. Bynum’s own commitment to the code was sealed
during his time as a student at Davidson. “The honor code is the essence of an academic environment,” Bynum said,
“and the honor code fosters trust, loyalty, and community.” Bynum has Davidson. He was a visiting sociology professor in 2000
and served as Assistant Dean of Admissions from 1988 to 1990.

Browning, the Dean for Undergraduate Enrollment at Rice University, addressed a group about her experience and ideas for the future
last Thursday. Browning emphasized her dedication to diversity in her opening address. “Diversity matters in advancing educational goals for all,”
she said. “We must come into contact with different cultures, traditions, life experiences and opinions.” According to Browning, the student
body should reflect the diversity that pervades society today. She discussed diversity not only in the abstract sense, but the
practical means by which Davidson might attract these uniquely talented students. Her plan for attracting diverse students includes educational outreach
programs, increasing the involvement of alumni, mustering up greater financial support, and recruiting as early as tenth grade. She spoke
a good deal about the Barbara Jordan Scholarship that exists at Rice, intended for a student who has demonstrated charismatic
leadership. Browning worked as Associate Director of Admissions at Duke University, Meredith College, and Rhodes College before she took over
the position she currently holds at Rice.

Although the search committee will make a recommendation for the position on September 9, the decision will ultimately come down
to theBoard of Trustees, Vagt expects the decision to be announced within the next two to three weeks. Julie Browning
talks to a faculty member during an open interview session.

Want to write for News? Email kagillespie for information. Paid positions available.

NEWS
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2005

The faculty who went to India sit in the two boats the college raised money to buy.

India, continued from page 1

“And the only moment I became sentimental was when they launched the boats. That was the moment that stands out.
Not the Taj Mahal or anything else,” said French professor Alan Singerman, describing the moment as “very touching.” He remembered
a “good feeling of kinship” that emerged at the ceremony, between himself and the villagers, but also himself and his
colleagues. “You go through that together,” he said, “it creates bonds that last a lifetime.”

Thomas views the faculty development program in India as tremendously beneficial to both Davidson College and the faculty and staff.
“It’s an investment in Davidson human resources,” he said. Faculty “come back much more grown, much more tolerant.”

The participants spent three weeks traveling in India and strengthening ties at MCC. “It was a transforming experience that I
don’t think you can get enough of,” said Peter Hess, professor of economics. “Everyone felt entirely enriched by this experience.”

“I’m still reeling from the experience,” said Singerman. “Witnessing firsthand the nation’s extreme poverty contrasted with the immense beauty of
colorful religious ceremonies was a challenge to your open-mindedness... it was eye-opening to see you can live that way.”

Director of Media Relations Bill Giduz remembered looking down at the hills below while flying over the Indian landscape in
an airplane. “The hills were covered with shanties. I mean there were just acres and acres of cardboard and stick
houses.” It was, he said, a very sobering and profound moment.

Faculty and staff attended lectures and seminars, given by Indian colleagues, on a number of topics ranging from art history
to modern health care policies.

Davidson students also visited India last fall with the Semester in India program, which Thomas has organized since 1981. During
the 2004 program, the students, 15 of 16 of whom were from Davidson, attended classes and listened to guest speakers
discuss various facets of Indian culture and the pressing issues facing the nation, namely poverty, health care, and economic development.

“Witnessing firsthand the nation’s extreme poverty contrasted with the immense beauty of colorful religious ceremonies was a challenge to your
open-mindedness.” --Alan Singerman, Professor of French

Students also traveled the country extensively, visiting historic sites like the Taj Mahal, cities such as Delhi, and spiritual homes
and ceremonies, from the Sri Meenakshi temple complex to a tribute to “Mother Ganges” in the holy city of Varanasi.

Brian Orland ’07 recalled spending time in the town of Tambaram during his semester in India. “I could walk around
Tambaram for hours and hours and never feel the slightest inkling of boredom.”

“Very quickly, the cacophony turned harmonious,” he said of the ricocheting noises in the heart of the town. “I would
trade a lot to be able to walk around Tambaram once more.”
