Staff Editorial

In the right direction

There will likely be many times this semester when we, as an editorial board, may choose to be highly though
constructively critical. Yet this week we find cause for constructive praise. As the Davidsonian reports in this issue, President Vagt
has announced that Davidson College has recently crossed the $250 million mark in the much-heralded “Let Learning Be Cherished” fund-raising
campaign. The campaign, now in its fifth year, began after a broad assessment of Davidson College as an institution. That
assessment sought to identify the financial and physical resources necessary to the fundamental Davidson character and mission. The concluding report
outlined a plan to sustain and improve the college, without changing its essence.

The signs of its impacts are all around you. If you’ve ever grabbed a late-night quesadilla in the Alvarez Union,
you’ve benefited from a renovation “LLBC” made possible. Or perhaps you go to class. Most likely it meets in renovated
Chambers, paid for by the capital campaign. Look at your friends. Many might not be here without the scholarships provided
by the campaign. Think of your professors. How much harder would it have been to lure many of them here
without increasingly competitive compensation and professorship endowments?

We do not think this administration or this Board of Trustees will now rest on its laurels, with the clock
not yet up on this noble endeavor. For even now the mission to enable continues. Here are our challenges:
- Reduce the steady march of rising tuition as much as possible, and hopefully freeze tuition so an entering student
pays the same rate all four years;
- Continue to increase faculty compensation so that Davidson can forever compete to attract the best professors, whose pay can
still lag behind our peers;
- Work for equity by increasing long-time staff member benefits to those more in line with faculty members;
- Create more scholarships for students to take advantage of Davidson-run summer opportunities, like beefing up language skills in Cadiz
or Tours, practicing medicine in Kenya, or spending a summer in Washington;
- Continue to ensure every athletic team has the Division I-caliber facilities it needs to attract the best scholar-athletes;
- Continue to support our student researchers, musicians, and artists.

This is not an exhaustive list of improvements we’d like to see in campus life. In fulfilling our mission as
a voice of the students, those other issues will be highlighted in our future coverage and editorials this semester. Please
help us by reading, criticizing, and discussing the content of this paper both with each other and with us. We
look forward to hearing from you.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel

Managing Editor
Mike Giglio

News Editors
Liz Barry, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia

Perspectives Editor
Matt Bandyk

Arts & Living Editors
Elizabeth Burkhead & Andy Martin

Yowl Editor
Brendan Parets

Sports Editors
Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrary

Photography Editor
Dorsett Clark

PERSPECTIVES
THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2005

Letters to the Editors

Update from 2003 Batten Professor

Last semester, I delivered a lecture at Davidson entitled, “The Mess We’re In: How Our Leaders Failed Us in the
Middle East.” I noted, as I began my remarks, that I was still in the process of formulating my presentation,
but since I had developed some of the core ideas for the speech during my 2003 Batten Professorship at the
college, and since my remarks were to form the basis for a new book I was writing, I was pleased
to make my first presentation before the Davidson community.

The next day, the Davidsonian featured a wonderful article by David Crow reviewing my speech. The piece included a number
of comments by students that were for the most part favorable. The comments by one student, however, troubled me. Chris
Clunie ’06 noted that while he assumed that I was “intelligent and [knew] what needs to be done, [Zagby] didn’t
articulate those ideas to my satisfaction.” I have thought long and hard about his concerns. I took immediate steps to
correct that glaring hole in my presentation. Since the Davidson lecture, I have given the same, but, I hope, improved
speech in eight states. I now include a rather lengthy set of remarks of what concrete steps can be taken
to correct our Middle East policy consistent with our values and based on the “best practices” of the past three
Administrations. I have written my book proposal and am now workingon the book itself. But during all this time I
have felt that I needed to write to the Davidson community to thank you for hosting me in 2003 and
for graciously inviting me back to lecture in 2004, and to give a special thank you to Chris Clunie for
reminding me of my responsibility to provide an answer and a way to “correct course.” If you check out the
Arab American Institute’s website, www.aaiusa.org, and follow my weekly column, I hope you’ll find a preview of my thinking. The
website also gives you a chance to look at 2003’s student dialogue between Davidson and Baghdad.

Jim Zogby
President, Arab American Institute
jzogby@aaiusa.org

Seeing the world through a wider lens

America is not the measuring stick of normal, as I once thought. I had to go to India to learn
that. During my first few weeks in the subcontinent, I was blown away when I realized my life in America
is unusual—perhaps even unimaginable—to most of the people there, who make up 36 percent of the world’s poor. (If the
world’s population shrank to include just 100 people, 50 percent of the total population’s wealth would be in the hands
of six people, all of whom would be American.) I had arrived in a country where 17 percent of the
world’s population lives, most of whom struggle daily to survive.

On a beach in South India, a young girl asked me to pay 100 rupees—a mere two dollars—for one of
her brightly-colored pieces of cloth, which she stood all day in the hot sun selling. I bargained her down to
50 rupees. Back at our beach resort, now possibly destroyed by the recent tsunami that killed tens of thousands and
possibly that little girl, I felt ridiculous that I had spent so much time arguing over a dollar. I spend
more than that for a cup of coffee on Main Street.

As part of the Davidson Semester in India, I traveled to this developing country to experience something out of the
ordinary, something exotic. Instead, I realized it was me who was extraordinary, not them. At times I felt exposed and
was gawked at like a caged animal at the zoo. My blonde hair and blue eyes made me the object
of stares and snickering. Yet despite the occasional annoyances, being a minority was oddly refreshing.

Most Americans, however, don’t find going abroad so thrilling. In fact, less than 20 percent of Americans even hold passports.
In contrast, in 2002-2003, 25 percent of the Davidson student body went abroad in the summer or during the school
year. I feel incredibly lucky to attend a school like Davidson. Davidson and many institutions like it are exceptional because
they have students with a global perspective. This world view is one that I have found to be invaluable.

Even still, I often felt confined by my status as a tourist. I knew I would never be able to
experience life from an Indian’s point of view. I didn’t want to see India only through my camera viewfinder; I
wanted to be drawn into the scenery on the other side of it. But I could only speculate, and even
simple speculation left me overwhelmed. I could travel around India for years, but I’ll never understand the day-to-day struggle of
the women who hunch over a broom all day to sweep the grounds of the resorts where Westerners sip Piña
Coladas in lounge chairs. I'll never truly know what life is like for a majority of the people in this
world, who unlike me, don’t have everything handed to them. I don’t have to shove my cupped hands into the
faces of strangers to get money for a hot meal. All I have to do is swipe a card.

Americans are not the rule; we are the exception, and I think it’s a lesson all Americans would be better
off learning. Though we may feel naked and unprotected once uncloaked of our starred and striped armor, escaping the confines
of America’s borders can be a liberating experience. I encourage everyone who is able to go abroad, and I am
thankful to be among Davidsonians who, by going abroad or simply by being educated about global issues, see the world
through a wider lens. And I don’t mean the lens of a camera.

Georgie Ahrendt is a junior sociology major from Columbia, SC. Her “Get the Picture” column appears frequently in our pages.
She can be contacted at geahrendt@davidson.edu. We also welcome your comments on this column at davidsonian@davidson.edu.
