THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mirror, mirror on the wall, what conference is best of all?

- SPORTS

Top to bottom, Big East trumps ACC in quality

By RICHARD CONNOLLY

ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE

ACC strongest at top, has the highest RPI rank

By JEFF HAMILTON

Senior Staff Writer

Yeah, we’re near Tobacco Road, but if you think the Atlantic Coast Conference is the best college basketball league around you’re smoking something entirely different.

Top to bottom, the Big East is by far the best conference.

As an English major and an Economics minor, I’ve learned that words can convince, but numbers don’t lie. And since I’ve only got 325 words to work with, let me throw some numbers at you.

The Big East is 6-2 in games against the ACC.
The Big East has five teams in the top 25, compared with four for the ACC. Close only counts in horseshoes and hand grenades.

Sure, according to the Ratings Percentage Index, the ACC is the best league in the country, while the Big East is rated third. But take a deeper look into this week’s AP top-25 poll and you’ll see why the Big East is the deeper (read: better) conference.
Both Georgetown and Notre Dame garnered more votes than any unranked ACC team, meaning seven Big East teams are ranked higher than all but four ACC squads.

Yes, Duke, UNC and Wake are very good teams. But, like Anna Nicole Smith, the ACC is insanely top heavy.

Rutgers, St. John’s and Providence sit at the bottom of the Big East standings with a combined league record of 4-25.

But Rutgers opened its season with wins at No. 23 Charlotte and against St. Mary’s (20-7), two teams that should end up in the tournament.

And St. John’s has beaten No. 17 Pittsburgh and the ACC’s Virginia Tech and then-No. 15 North Carolina State.

Providence has lost all nine conference games by an average margin of 6.7 points, and its only victory since the start of January was a 21-point drumming of the ACC’s Virginia.

And so, by examining the three worst teams in the conference, I’ve demonstrated why the Big East trumps the ACC in college hoops.

Lay off the pipe, people.

Sushi @

Guest Columnist

You can go ahead and thank the kid who doesn’t like going to Super Bowls for not receiving another dose of dynastic discourse in this week’s column. Instead, I shy from that task to straighten out a kid whose latest inane claim is that the Big East is a better basketball conference than the Atlantic Coast Conference. Please.

When saddled with this question of conference supremacy, three questions come to mind:

Which conference is better at the top?

Which conference is better at the bottom?

Which conference snagged three schools from the other when those schools looked to elevate their sports programs?

Only the middle question is at least debatable. But what defines a conference, the top or the bottom? I argue the former.

Taking a cursory glance at this week’s top-25 poll, we see that three ACC teams have garnered a position in the top eight. Furthermore, before the ACC teams beat each other up in conference play, the preseason top-25 poll featured three ACC teams in the top four spots and six schools in the top 20.

In that same poll, the Big East had four schools in the top 25, but none was higher than Syracuse at six. That was two spots below three ACC schools. Our friend over there anguishing with this polemic may tell you that ESPN's Bracketology currently has seven Big East teams making the NCAA tournament, compared with just six from the ACC.

Now, a quick break for stats:
Final four appearances in the last 25 years: ACC 25, Big East 12.
All-time tournament championships: ACC 9, Big East 5.

If you really feel like breaking down games between conference cellar dwellers to determine the better conference, you can, but maybe you should turn to our trusty Rating Percentage Index system for a somewhat clearer picture: ACC No. 1, Big East No. 3.

Computers never lie. We all know that from the BCS.

The Lake

(704) 987-8080 www.sushiatthelake.com

10¢ Off with School ID

Monday-Friday 2pm-6pm
Saturday 11:30am-5pm

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2005

All Students, Faculty, and Staff receive 20% off with CatCard!