THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2005

Spices of India in Charlotte

By KATHERINE SORRELL AND MICHELLE LEVIN-CROWLEY
Staff Writers

Ever have a nagging craving for a masala dosai or chai tea? Ever find yourself with a hankering for carrot
halwa or a coconut uthappam? Yeah, you know you do. After three and a half months on the Davidson in
India program, enjoying the splendid and unique cuisine of South India, I definitely get an occasional craving for aloo gobi,
paneer masala, and mango lassi. My cravings, however, usually begin a very mournful process of reminiscing, of remembering intimate meals
around wooden tables, of eating with my hands, of the men who served us food every morning, afternoon, and evening,
of tea breaks to burn our tongues in the middle of hot Indian afternoons. Sure, my India days are over
(at least for the time being), but my Indian food days are only just beginning.

By the end of last semester, I still couldn’t tell you the difference between roti, parantha, and poori (all types
of Indian breads) to save my life, and I still needed a consistent supply of water to avoid crying my
way through every bite of Indian spice, but I grew to love the rice and lentils, the rich sauces, and
the amazing ability of Indian food to combine just about anything and make it taste good. So, when I returned
to the U.S., I started browsing Indian restaurants to satisfy my endless cravings and provide a fun way to reminisce—with
food, of course.

Any Indian food expert (or wanna-be) will tell you that Woodlands is a great place to get that spicy fix.
Located on Albemarle Road, just off Independence, in the heart of Charlotte, Woodlands sits near several other ethnic restaurants, including
a Middle East deli and several Hispanic restaurants. It remains tucked away in an unassuming building, but the restaurant offers
superior service and an elegant setting, complete with white tablecloths and wine glasses. This is a place, however, where you
can eat with your hands.

Woodlands is authentically Indian, displaying Indian religious figures, including Shiva and Buddha, and Indian art. They also play Bollywood music,
to the great delight of those closet Bollywood fans who can’t help but tap their foot under the table to
that irresistible beat. Most importantly, the food tastes like Indian food. Woodlands manages to avoid Americanizing their unique cuisine to
make it more appealing to non-Indians. Rather, the food remains spicy, hot, and deliciously good. It’s perfect for those people
brimming with memories of India like me, but it’s also a delightful experience for those who’ve never set foot in
India, or outside the United States, for that matter. If you fall into the latter category, I encourage you to
explore, try new things, and eat with your hands (especially if, like me, you never really could get that whole
chopstick thing down at the Chinese restaurants). In fact, we have a few tips for some hand-to-mouth techniques.

A Beginner’s Guide to Eating With Your Hands:
1) This applies to all saucy dishes that come with rice. So, first, dip some rice onto your plate and
then cover the rice with your dish of choice (i.e.: paneer masala, aloo gobi, or rasam).
2) Stick your fingers into the concoction on your plate and use the sticky rice to form a ball around
the main saucy main dish. This ball should be bite size.
3) Cup your hand and dig all of your fingers except your thumb under the rice ball.
4) Bring the cupped hand to your mouth, open your mouth, and use your thumb to push the ball of
food into your mouth from behind.
5) Alternatively, you can use bread to scoop food off of your plate. If this exercise sounds a little too
sensual, get over it. Eating Indian is dining for the senses.

Another recommendation from a newcomer to this cuisine is to drink the Indian tea, a.k.a. chai tea. Not only will
it soothe your nerves, but it’s a great aperitif and digestif, or before and after.drink. Last tip: try the masala
dosai. It’ll take you straight to India—for the first, second, or tenth time. Woodlands Vegetarian South Indian Cuisine features entrees
under $10 and is located at 7128 Albemarle Road in Charlotte, NC.

Once again, I answer questions posed by members of the Davidson community.

From a male student: How do you last longer while having sex? In other words, how can I prevent coming
too early?

First of all, realize how common premature ejaculation is, especially among college-age men. Nearly all men experience problems with premature
ejaculation at some time in their sexual lives. In fact, premature ejaculation is by far the most common sexual dysfunction
of men under age 40.

Why do men experience premature ejaculation? The most common reason is that teenage boys learn to masturbate quickly and in
secret, which leads to speedy ejaculations. While this may be desirable for masturbatory pleasure, it oftentimes isn’t so for sexual
pleasure. Rest assured that premature ejaculation is rarely a physical problem in college-age men. More often, it’s just that you’ve
been training your body to do the wrong thing. The answer in fixing the problem is relatively simple: train your
body to do what you want it to do.

The two most common techniques used to prevent premature ejaculation are the stop-and-start method and the squeeze technique. Essentially, the
stop-and-start method entails bringing yourself, via masturbation or with a partner, to what many have called “the point of no
return” and then stopping. You continue to do this several times over many weeks or months, and gradually the time
between starting and stopping will, in theory, become longer. The same is true of the squeeze method, except, as you
would imagine, you squeeze the tip of the penis when you are about to ejaculate, which will force blood out
of the penis to lessen the erection. Check other reliable resources or information at the Student Health Center for more
thorough explanations.

Other common suggestions for dealing with premature ejaculation include regulating your breathing during sex to relax yourself. Again and again,
urologists say that the problem is almost always mental: hesitance, anxiety, embarrassment, nervousness. Cope with these issues first, and odds
are you will be able to last longer. Good luck.

From a female student: I get the feeling that when I perform oral sex, the guy isn’t really enjoying it
that much. I enjoy doing it, but I am not sure if he does too. A lot of my girlfriends
have said they have experienced the same thing. How can we perform oral sex better?

Well, the first thing to do is to talk to the guy! As trite as it sounds, the answer is
more often communication than anything else. Ask him if he is enjoying what you are doing. If not, what is
it about the oral sex that he doesn’t find pleasurable? And being comfortable together, preferably in some meaningful relationship, always
makes any sexual experience better.

Perhaps an awareness of the anatomy of the penis could help, though. Know that the most sensitive area of the
penis is the head. In particular, the area under the base of the erect penis is especially sensitive. Most males,
however, appreciate attention paid to the entire length of the penis and even the surrounding area, though it is extremely
important to be both sensitive and receptive to his reactions. Any warm, soft, wet place is highly arousing for many
men, but know that exploration during oral sex often increases arousal for both partners.

How do you get the morning-after pill on campus?

Good question. Call the Student Health Center at extension 2300 at any time of day or night. If it is
after-hours, follow the instructions to get to the nurse on call. You have 72 hours to take the pills, and
Georgia Ringle usually requests that the woman actually come in for a brief talk with her about choosing the best
contraceptive. For off-campus assistance, please call 1-866-942-7762.

Arousingly,
Dr. Secksgawd

Got questions? Email davidsonian@davidson.edu

Peninsula China Bistro
704.987.2299

“Each entrée a masterpiece...” — Heidi Edidin, “The Wandering Gourmet”

Crossland Centre at Jetton Village

Fine Wines
Full Bar
Contemporary, Friendly Atmosphere
Reservations Accepted
Carryout
FREE DELIVERY (min $20)

LUNCH HOURS
Mon-Thurs 11:30-3:00
Fri & Sat 11:30-3:00
Sun 12:00-3:00

DINNER HOURS
19906 N Catawba Ave
Cornelius, NC
