THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Online catalog introduced for spring registration

By KATE GILLESPIE
News Editor

On October 14, Davidson College’s course catalog became available online as a reference for students registering for classes. The Registrar’s
Office began contacting firms last year to implement an online catalog after studying its success at other schools.

“Everybody’s doing it [putting course catalogs online],” Davidson Registrar Hansford Epes said. “It’s so much handier for prospective students, parents,
and on-campus students to have it available in that way.”

The online catalog features the same brief course descriptions found in the printed version. It also has a My Portfolio
feature, which Epes describes as “something that is there as a convenience to students.” My Portfolio allows students to create
links to webpages that contain requirements for majors and to mark classes of interest.

By next spring, Epes expects to have implemented the next phase of the online catalog project, which will link the
course descriptions to the actual schedule that details the times and locations of each class. “When all this is in
place, you should be able to look at the schedule, say that a class sounds interesting, click, and it gives
you the course description,” Epes said.

The link between the catalog and schedule will eventually allow the Registrar’s Office to reduce the number of printed schedules
it normally offers to students during course registration. The Registrar’s Office currently prints about 1,500 copies each semester. After Duke
University implemented its online course catalog, the school went from printing 6,000 copies of its schedule to printing 30. “With
a little bit of getting people’s habits to change, the web schedule was very welcomed,” Epes said.

Epes emphasized that it would not be possible to link the My Portfolio aspect of the online course catalog with
Web Tree, Davidson’s tool for course registration. “The lottery system is too complicated to be made into a shopping cart,”
Epes said. “If you could put four courses in a portfolio and click on a button to register for those
courses, that would be fine, but that doesn’t work for Web Tree or any registration that allows you so many
choices.”

The online catalog will allow the Registrar’s Office to more easily archive the courses offered from year to year and
place several years of course descriptions online. “You’d be surprised how often we get requests from people who graduated 10
to 15 years ago,” Epes said. “They’re applying for something and need a course description for the course they took.”

According to Epes, the online catalog will also encourage consistency in course descriptions across the college’s website. “The catalog course
descriptions are in a big database,” Epes said. “That database is also going to be the source for departments to
pull their course descriptions from.”

The online catalog can be accessed through the link.

Dear Fellow Davidsonians,

From the SGA President

The Student Government Association recently set its six main goals for the upcoming year. I think it is crucial to
make these goals public so the entire student body knows what issues their student government is tackling. The goals are:

1. Evaluate and improve the structure and efficiency of the SGA.
2. Improve Davidson's Environmental Practices.
3. Create a way to receive credit for internships.
4. Improve transportation for students.
5. Facilitate greater faculty/student interactions.
6. Improve the Safety on Campus.

We will be presenting our plan of action to accomplish our goals at this Thursday's meeting, which all are welcome
to attend. If you have any questions, suggestions, or would like to get involved in the SGA, please do not
hesitate to e-mail me or stop by during my office hours from 9-10:30 p.m. on Wednesdays.

As President of the student body, I would like to say on behalf of the Student Government that it is
our pleasure to serve our fellow students. Please feel free to contact any of your senators with regards to student
issues.

Respectfully yours,
Ryan Arnold
SGA President

5th Anniversary Special Coupon
20% OFF
(Take Out & Dine in Only)
Not to be combined with other coupons

Pines, from page 1
tures on topics of interest to the residents. Nelson is the current chairman ofLearning in Retirement. She was the first
female to be a fully-tenured Davidson professor and taught economics from 1964 to 1988. “She is an extremely well-read person
and analytical thinker with wide-ranging knowledge and interests. She is a highly respected person. As a professor, she demanded people
to be at their best. She expected a lot of herself and her students,” art history professor Shaw Smith said.

Nelson was drawn to The Pines because the Davidson community was home to her. She had lived in Davidson longer
than she had lived anywhere else, she had family in the area, and she enjoyed Davidson’s proximity to Charlotte. Nelson
has served as chairman of LIR for eight years. As chairman, she organizes topics into series that last about three
months. Nelson comes up with a broad focus for each series and invites Davidson professors to come and speak about
topics in their fields. “We have a committee meeting before each series and determine a unifying theme for the series,”
Nelson said. “The professors give splendid, first-rate lectures.”

A different professor comes each Monday morning at 10:30 a.m. to the Davidson Room at The Pines. The current series,
which started on September 12 and will last until December 12, is entitled, “A Fresh View of...” Smith spoke on
October 3 about different ways of looking at art and how the ways of looking at art change over the
years. In his lecture, Smith looked at unique interpretations of about 10 major works of art, including Leonardo da Vinci’s
Mona Lisa, Michelangelo’s Sistine Ceiling, and Van Eyck’s Arnolfini Portrait. In the past, Smith has lectured on various topics at
The Pines, on everything from Spanish art to the Carolina Panthers. “The audience is extremely bright and well-traveled, and I
am very impressed by the breadth and depth of their questions,” Smith said. “Unlike Davidson students, they are not inhibited
by the power of the grade, so they can let you know what they really think.”

Reverend Allen Brindisi of Davidson College Presbyterian Church gave a lecture at The Pines about a year ago called “Da
Vinci, the Disciples, and Dan (Brown).” Brindisi echoed Smith’s praise of the audience. “They are retired professors, professionals, physicians, teachers,
and preachers, all of whom are accustomed to education at the highest level. Anyone who thinks that people in retirement
homes are content to play cards and knit will be blown away by the challenging topics and presentation in LIR,
and by the astute questions the audience asks,” Brindisi said. “Learning in Retirement is one of the great ways the
connection between The Pines and the college continues. Another is that The Pines residents are among the most avid supporters
of the college’s sports teams. Look for a block of them at every basketball game; sometimes they outnumber the students.”

Other talks scheduled for this month are philosophy professor Lance Stell’s “Physicians and the Drug Industries” on October 17, history
professor Jane Mangan’s “Trading Roles in Colonial Potosi” on October 24, and history professor John Wertheimer’s “History of North Carolina
Voting Rights” on October 31.

Besides LIR, other connections exist between The Pines and Davidson College. A group of Davidson students, called Pines Fellowship, goes
over each Friday afternoon to spend time with residents. The students do activities with the residents, including room visits, crafts,
and monthly birthday parties. Suzanne Guarino ’08 and Martina Mustroph ’08 coordinate the visits. Nelson and 12 other retired professors
now live at The Pines. “Student connections to the residents help with the transition from home to school,” Guarino said.
“Students and residents exchange stories about families and consequently create ties that are just as strong as familial relationships.” “It
just seems like a win-win situation. The residents love company and the students really enjoy hearing the residents’ stories as
well as partaking in the organized activities.” The group meets at 3:30 p.m. on Fridays outside Richardson dorm to drive
over to The Pines.

Davidson College Presbyterian Church (DCPC) also does much to foster the connection between The Pines and Davidson. About 125 Pines
residents are members of DCPC. A committee run by the Board of Deacons, called the Pines Connection, oversees the programs.
Quarterly communion services, a weekly Sunday school class, women’s circles, and Sandwich Suppers are some of the programs provided for
residents of The Pines.
