THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2005 15

Crew takes first place at Head of the Hooch

By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Senior Staff Writer

The 25th Annual Head of the Hooch Regatta in Chattanooga saw two teams dominate the club division this past weekend.
One was Alabama, a school of some 21,000. The other was Davidson, with a fledgling crew program that has suddenly
made waves, so to speak, in the crew world.

The Head of the Hooch bills itself as “the largest head race in the Southeast and one of the premier
regattas in the nation,” and on Nov. 5 and 6, the Wildcat rowers took home first place in the men’s
varsity division and fourth in the women’s varsity division. The novice teams finished 14th out of 30 teams in women’s
8K, 14th out of 29 in men’s 8K, and 17th out of 31 in women’s 4K.

The time of 17:12 for the five-kilometer race bested Texas by about two and a half seconds and Bama by
nine, making for a thrilling finish of the men’s varsity 4K race. The men’s B team finished 23rd out of
29 teams overall in 18:45. The women’s varsity 4K boat finished in 20:05, barely eight seconds behind Wake Forest and
topping Rice’s team by six seconds; their B boat came in 20th out of 23 teams, with a time of
22:23.

The crew team unanimously describes their success as phenomenal and a major landmark in Davidson crew history. Says Rob Mark
’08, “We put ourselves on the map as a leading crew in the South. The point did not hit home
harder than when the announcer called over to ask us what our mascot was and said, ‘You all are in
North Carolina, like Duke, right?’”

After the first-place finish on Saturday, however, the crew world knows the name Davidson and will remember it at future
regattas. “In one semester we have gone from being at the bottom end of the pack last spring to winning
outright one of the biggest regattas in the country,” said Jon Atkinson ’06. “We’re especially proud of the varsity men.
Placing at the Head of the Hooch is amazing, and winning is pretty much overwhelming,” said Katharine Phlegar ’08. “All
the boats did well, considering the incredible amount of competition.”

Not only is it a success relative to the competition, the regatta showed great improvement over the last race for
each team; the women’s A boat dropped their time by over 2:50, the B boat took off 1:55. The men’s
A team knocked off over three minutes, and the B team shaved a healthy 3:05.

Atkinson chalks up the improvements to sheer hard work over the course of the semester. “We knew we were stepping
up our dedication and our competitiveness, but it is very nice to see that it has paid big dividends.”

Several members of the crew team have mentioned that the success across the board at this most recent regatta is
a great sign for the future of Davidson rowing. “I think we have really put Davidson Crew and Davidson as
aschool on the map in a lot of places,” said Atkinson. With such success at a huge competition this weekend,
the team’s momentum is going strong into the next test of the team’s mettle. This, the final regatta of the
semester, will take place on Saturday at the Head of the South in Augusta, Georgia.

Disappointing losses end season for ’Cats
By KEVIN BIRNEY
Staff Writer

The field hockey team struggled again this weekend, losing games to Radford and Appalachian State, each by a score of
4-3. The contests were part of the annual NorPac tournament (Nov. 3-5) in Berkeley, California. The ’Cats, who were seeded
fifth coming into the tournament, struggled in their opening contest against Radford on Thursday, falling behind 3-1 by midway through
the second half. A goal by Kayli Maxwell ’08 had put Davidson up 1-0 in the 11th minute, but three
unanswered goals by Radford had the Highlanders well ahead. The ’Cats did not give up, however, as Britti Himelfarb ’09
notched a goal on an assist from Catherine Ransone ’08 to pull Davidson within one point at 3-2. Radford answered
with a goal of their own, however, and held until the final second, when Emily Davis ’06 struck net to
make the final score 4-3. Davis was also named first-team all-conference earlier this week.

After the loss, the 'Cats moved on to the consolation round against Appalachian State. The Mountaineers (4-13) struck first, capitalizing
off a rebound to make the score 1-0 nine minutes into the game. Davidson answered 16 minutes later, however, when
Eleanor Cowley ’08 finished a feed from Maxwell to tie the game at one-all. The sophomore scoring continued two minutes
later as Ransone found the net, but it was quickly matched by Appalachian State, who scored to tie the game
at two going into the half.

The second half opened with a flurry, with three goals scored in the first 16 minutes. Less than two minutes
in, the Mountaineers scored again, making the score 3-2. Four minutes later, the back and forth action continued, this time
on a goal from Maxwell and an assist from Jen Willis ’08. The game was now tied 3-3, but Davidson
could not hold, as Appalachian State scored the game-winning goal in the 52nd minute and put away the contest for
good. With the loss, the Cats dropped to 5-12 overall and 2-4 in the NorPac Conference.

Co-captain Davis said afterwards, “Although we fought hard during the tournament, our team defense was not at the level that
it should have been.” The season is now over for Davidson, who opened with a dramatic double-overtime win at home
but struggled to find its rhythm the rest of the year. Next year, however, the team returns many of its
best players, including a sophomore class that accounted for much of this year’s scoring. “Our team has so much potential,
and I am confident that they will have a very successful season next year,” Davis said. “I am confident that
the team will be working on [defense] this spring, and by next fall our defensive strength along with our attacking
skills will make for a very skilled and competitive 2006 team.”

Co-captain and goalkeeper Rachel Kiselewich ’07 added three saves to her season total, as did goalkeeper Brittany Rollek ’09. Said
Kiselewich, “This season was disappointing in many aspects, however disappointing by no means implies that it was not a constructive
season. We have nine months to work on our weaknesses, and the frustrating end to our season simply gives us
more fuel for the fire for next season.”
