THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2005

New alcohol statistic authenticity questioned
By KATIE PFEIFFER
Senior Staff Writer

Posters claiming “18.4 percent of Davidson students do not drink alcohol” are currently displayed throughout the Davidson College campus. The
statistic, achieved through a student survey conducted by Health Educator Georgia Ringle and the Student Health Center last May, has
caused a variety of student responses. Students generally think that the number is too high and are unsure how it
was determined.

“I feel like it could be misleading depending on how you define ‘not drinking’; whether it means never having had
a drink, or not currently drinking, or athletes who are dry for the season,” Emily Monforton ’06 said. The statistic
describes students who claimed on the survey that they do not drink at all. Specific personal details were not accounted
for in the survey results.

“It makes the assumption that if you drink alcohol, you drink it in excessive amounts,” Sarah King ’06 said. King
also recognized the statistic’s positive qualities. “It’s trying to alleviate the pressure of conforming to society through drinking,” she said.

According to Ringle, she conducted the survey in order to alleviate the perception problem among students as to how much
alcohol is being consumed by their peers. “If you give back to students their own statistics, it tends to give
them a sense of reality about what really goes on in a campus,” Ringle said.

Associate Professor of Political Science Patrick Sellers agreed that the results of the survey point out the differences between what
actually happens and what is perceived to be occurring. “The survey is trying to provide an idea of the overall
population mean,” Sellers said. “The key thing is to make sure that the sample you get is representative of the
whole population.”

While a participation level of around 350 students is considered necessary to make an informed assessment, 590 students completed the
survey this past year to make it the highest participation rate ever. Overall, participation throughout the classes was evenly distributed.
Females made up 60.1 percent of the responses and males made up 39.9 percent. Seniors consisted of over 29 percent
of the result, making them the class with the highest participation level.

The survey is part of a national CORE survey that was created through Southern Illinois University Carbondale (SIUC) to assess
student behavior as well as perceptions of other students’ behavior. The survey has been conducted since 1996 and yields consistent
results each year. The survey has also been used to determine statistics on other student behaviors beyond the use of
alcohol. With increasing participation each year, it is possible to achieve realistic results and draw attention to health and safety
issues on campus.

LAKE NORMAN
Quality repair by people who care!

Confused about where to have your vehicle repaired? Lake Norman Auto & Tire Center is your “One Stop Repair Shop.”
We value all our customers and guarantee all work for 14 months or 14,000 miles. Call Lake Norman Auto &
Tire for a “free” consultation on any problem you may have with your vehicle. Lake Norman Auto & Tire offers
a 10% Labor Discount to ALL DAVIDSON Students, Faculty, and Staff! Additionally, we will provide shuttle service back to campus.
Give us a call at 704-892-6590 or email at Service@lakenormanauto.com for consultation or to make an appointment!
18705 Statesville Rd
Fax 704-892-6596

Senators generate ideas to improve freshman elections
By KATE GILLESPIE
News Editor

At last Thursday’s meeting, SGA focused on student outreach, discussing ideas to increase the campus’ knowledge of the inner workings
of student government. Senators were primarily interested in ways to increase education about what SGA does for the student body
among freshmen in order to generate more interested, informed candidates for freshman elections. Some ideas that were proposed included inviting
freshman halls to weekly SGA meetings and cosponsoring a party for new students with the Union Board during orientation weekend.

“If a couple of people came [to the meeting], that would be great,” senator Christina Evans ’06 said. “We need
to label our events because a lot of times people don’t know the ways we are involved.”

Senators also discussed making a course on SGA either a required or elective course for Davidson 101. Freshman outreach is
part of a bigger SGA plan.to reform freshman elections. Because the elections take place within the first few weeks of
school when freshmen still do not know each other, there are concerns that it has become a popularity contest. Next
semester, SGA will consider changing its bylaws so that there is a week between the general election and the runoff
election. During this week, freshman candidates will debate and discuss issues. SGA hopes increasing the time for elections will encourage
more students to vote. “If it’s spread out, we might get more response rather than sending out huge amounts of
email all at once,” Senator Michael Gordon ’08 said. Senator Francois Trappey ’06 also suggested that candidates be required to
attend an SGA meeting. Senator Beau Jones ’06 agreed. “We can’t hold a legitimate election if there is no interest
in the issues,” Jones said. “Until we get people wanting to come here, it’s going to be a popularity contest.”

Next semester SGA will also increase extracurricular opportunities for students by offering transportation to off-campus events. Because many students took
advantage of the SGA-sponsored bus to last Wednesday’s basketball game at UNCC, SGA plans to provide another bus next semester
to games at Wofford and Furman. Students will pay five to ten dollars to ride on the bus. “We almost
had the noise to take over the arena [last Wednesday],” transportation committee chair Sam Spencer ’07 said. “We want to
get more people to Wildcat basketball games, and this would be an easy way.” Next semester, the transportation committee will
also look into hosting a Mall Saturday to provide a bus to take students without cars to Northlake Mall.

Spencer, from page 1

Spencer plans to provide ombudsman services starting next summer to increase communication between him and his constituents. This would allow
anyone in the voting district to contact the Committee to Elect Sam Spencer in order to get answers on questions
about schools or local government. Spencer admitted this is an ambitious goal, but he thinks it is important to his
campaign. Even if he does not win, Spencer plans to use his campaign to help the community. According to Spencer,
his desire to effect positive change in northern Mecklenburg County is his main motivation for running. “Campaigning for political office
is one of the most narcissistic endeavors men engage in,” Spencer said. “If I lose, I don’t want to look
back on my first foray into politics thinking I haven’t accomplished anything. So instead of simply wasting a lot of
money on signs and bumper stickers that are as impermanent as a snowman in June, I want some of the
money I spend for publicity to go to good causes.” He says he wants his campaign to raise money for
non-profits. The Committee to Elect Sam Spencer has already sponsored the Sigma Phi Epsilon Turkey Trot, which benefited the Leukemia
and Lymphoma Society. Spencer also plans to hold a charity golf tournament to benefit a local non-profit.

According to their website, the Board of County Commissioners is the governing body for Mecklenburg County and “the Board’s major
responsibilities include adopting the annual County budget, setting the County property tax rate, and assessing and establishing priorities on the
many community needs, especially those related to health, education, welfare, mental health, and the environment. The Board also makes appointments
to citizen advisory committees.”

“Campaigning for political office is one of the most narcissistic endeavors men engage in. If I lose, I don’t want
to look back on my first foray into politics thinking I haven't accomplished anything. So instead of simply wasting a
lot of money on signs and bumper stickers that are as impermanent as a snowman in June, I want some
of the money I spend for publicity to go to good causes.”
--Sam Spencer ‘07

If he runs, Spencer will run as a Democrat. According to Spencer, the constituency of his district is pretty much
evenly split as far as politics are concerned. The current County Commissioner from District 1 is Jim Puckett, a Republican.
If he wins, Spencer will represent District 1, which is comprised of areas in northern Mecklenburg County like Davidson, Huntersville,
and Cornelius. He would be one of nine County Commissioners, six of whom are elected from their particular districts and
three of whom are elected at-large by the whole county.
