2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

‘English Patient’ author to deliver Conarroe Lecture

By MIKE TELLIS
Staff Writer

Booker-McConnell Prize-winning author Michael Ondaatje will deliver the 2005-2006 Joel Conarroe Lecture on November 21 at 8 p.m. in the Duke Family Performance Hall. Ondaatje became the first Canadian author to win the Booker-McConnell Prize, one of the most prestigious prizes awarded to British novelists, in 1992 for his novel “The English Patient,” which later became an Academy Award-winning film.

Ondaatje’s lecture has stirred up excitement among the student body and faculty, especially the English department. “He’s a great choice for the Conarroe lecture. Ondaatje’s work blurs a lot of lines: those between poetry and fiction, between past and present, between what we see presented about a character and the interior landscape of their mind and emotions,” Assistant Professor of English Ann Fox said. “His writing invites us to question that which we might otherwise judge as set and in so doing asks us to think about challenging conventions we might see as immutable, whether those are conventions of political thought, self-definition or literary creation.”

Professor of English and Chair of the English Department Elizabeth Mills expressed similar approval of the choice of Ondaatje as the Joel Conarroe lecturer. “Ondaatje is an adventurous writer, unafraid to cross boundaries of all kinds: from genres to nationalities. His knowledge of history and human nature runs deep, and his method of telling a story is paradoxically imaginative and precise,” Mills said.

Ondaatje’s lecture will be particularly relevant because many English professors are using a number of his works in their classes. The Senior Colloquium is currently studying “The English Patient,” and students in Mills’ Literary Analysis Class are analyzing several of Ondaatje’s poems.

Ondaatje was born in Sri Lanka in 1943 and attended school in England prior to moving to Canada in 1962. He received a B.A. from the University of Toronto in 1965 and an M.A. from the University of Ontario in 1967. Ondaatje taught for many years at York University in Toronto beginning in 1971.

Ondaatje is the author of numerous collections of poetry and fiction, including “There’s a Trick With a Knife I’m Learning To Do,” “In the Skin of the Lion” and “Anil’s Ghost.” In addition to acclaim for “The English Patient,” Ondaatje has received numerous other awards and prizes, including the Ralph Gustafson Award in 1965, the Epstein Award in 1966 and the President’s Medal from the University of Ontario in 1967. His novel “Anil’s Ghost” also received numerous prizes and awards in 2000, winning the Kiriyama Pacific Rim Book Prize, the Prix Medicis, the Governor General’s Award, and the Giller Prize.

The Conarroe lecture series began in 2002 with a generous gift by an anonymous donor who named the series in honor of Joel Conarroe ’56. Conarroe served as Chair of the English Department and Dean of the School of Arts and Sciences at the University of Pennsylvania. Conarroe was also president of PEN American Center, an organization that promotes contemporary literature and protects global free speech. He also served as president of the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, overseeing the distribution of millions of dollars in grants to artists and scholars.dollars in awards and fellowships each year.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2005

Davidson’s new police chief Jeanne A. Miller is sworn in by Mayor Randall Kincaid.

Town swears in first female police chief
By KATIE PFEIFFER
Senior Staff Writer

The town of Davidson swore in its first female chief of police, Jeanne A. Miller, during a November 9 ceremony at Town Hall. Out of 100 applicants, Miller was one of four applicants to be brought in for an interview in July, and she completed a second interview in August before being offered the position.

“It’s the culmination of about six to eight months of work on the part of Davidson and myself to come together,” Miller said.

Miller’s extensive background in law enforcement helped her gain the position as police chief. She has worked in both large- and small-scale law enforcement environments and feels that she can bring experience to her present job based on the breadth of areas in which she has served.

Miller began her career with the Detroit Police Department and worked in the gang squad and helped the undercover narcotics team in the 1970s. In 1980, she was promoted to sergeant. As sergeant, Miller ran a surveillance crew for the narcotics section and served three years in internal affairs carrying out criminal investigations of police officers. From 1986-1991, Miller worked within the crime division of the Detroit PD.

After working in urban law enforcement, Miller changed pace in January 1992 by accepting a position as assistant chief of operations in Peoria, Illinois. In March 1994, she moved to Reynoldsburg, Ohio, to become the police chief there.

Miller said of her decision to come to Davidson, “It’s a beautiful community. They have a wonderful quality of life.” While her transition has been a smooth progression towards smaller agencies, Miller added that she has “seen the positives and negatives” of both atmospheres. She emphasized the necessity of immediately establishing a good working relationship with both law enforcement personnel and executives in order to fulfill the ideals crucial to this position among a strong community base. Toward that end, she will meet individually with each officer during the next week.

Campus chief of police Fountain Walker, who has met with Miller already, described her as a genuine woman who is “agreeable to the idea of mutual aid [between the town and college].” Walker stressed that, as the town is ultimately responsible for what takes place within its boundaries, “we are here to work together.”

One example of the town and college having collaborated recently is in conducting a critical incident drill this past summer, during which fictional scenarios were enacted to assess the ability of both agencies to effectively mitigate the situation. Additionally, the town police force has provided the college with extra security during large-scale visits by guests such as Salman Rushdie and Dave Matthews.

While Miller has no immediate plans that directly concern Davidson College, she described the college town setting as a “wonderful opportunity” to reach out to an additional dynamic community within the town of Davidson.

Always wanted to learn how to walk backwards? APPLY TO BE A TOUR GUIDE! If you're interested, please e-mail a list of your involvements, your hometown, your major (if declared), and a brief statement about why you want to be a tour guide to Peyton Purcell (pepurcell@davidson.edu).