THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2005 7

Katrina benefit concert to feature Better than Ezra
By JULIA WARD
Staff Writer

This year, we may see a concert event that is very different from what Davidson’s concert committee usually presents. The
entire campus recently received a survey to fill out to decide what band they would like to see this semester;
the choice was between the bands 311 and Guster. The two bands were not arbitrarily selected. Erin Doyle ’08, the
Union Board concert committee chair, and Lee Ann Bannerman, the assistant director of programs, have to work with the More
Music Group. The company acts as a liaison between Davidson and agents for

Worth braving the crowd
By PAIGE TAYLOR
Senior Staff Writer

I was stuck in traffic along a four-mile stretch last night for 60 minutes. I honestly thought that by heading
toward the Verizon Amphitheater at 7:30 p.m., when the concert started, I would miss traffic. I think that’s what everyone
else thought too. But this was Coldplay, and even traffic control underestimated their popularity.

I remember staring at lead singer Chris Martin when I first saw Coldplay live three years ago before becoming a
passionate fan. He banged on the piano and danced on one foot, turning rock into a musician’s cause. He was
not about show or lights, although both were impressive. To a crowd of a couple thousand, Coldplay played their instruments
with an intensity that compared to the legends of U2 and The Rolling Stones. Last night the crowd had to
be more than 18,000. I had an assigned seat, but I’m sure people on the lawn were no less enthralled
by what they saw. Coldplay had not weakened since I saw them last, before they gained international stature. Chris Martin
experimented against the huge background screen that flashed with sporadic images, sparkling colors, and even films of the audience. He
wore his trademark finger bands and still had the stamp on his left hand that promoted free trade whenever the
camera zoomed in on the pianist’s recital.

Coldplay is not just about Martin; the other three musicians enhanced the performance, wowing the audience with a four-part harmony
in the finale and my personal favorite, “Fix You.” They all wore black, with no flashy or faddish emblems. They
played their instruments with a confidence that can only be attributed to experience and love of the music. Their connection
with the crowd was smooth and sometimes comical. Martin spoke in a humble English accent reflective of a cultural awkwardness
caught between Britain’s proper nationality and laid-back demeanor. Their songs swung between all three albums, rewarding long-time fans, and their
tribute to Johnny Cash’s classic “Ring of Fire” set off a frenzy.

We ended up getting to our seats at 9:20 p.m., right before Coldplay took the stage with their roaring intro
“Politik.” I stood the whole time, watching the crescent moon set behind me, and feeling the voltage of rock-lovers’ excitement
rise and fall with the beat. I probably looked like a fool singing along with every word and banging the
seats for an encore, but Coldplay is something to get drawn into without consideration of time and limits. Even if
you are not a Coldplay fan, you may have experienced that liberation in music before. Waiting for an hour in
a line of taillights is well worth it.

Banks to speak about race
By GEORGIE AHRENDT
Health Advisor

Race matters when talking about health. Race even peaks out from behind our clouded understanding of the various causes of
depression. This Friday, September 16, Psychology professor Dr. Kira Hudson Banks from Illinois Wesleyan University will be coming to Davidson
to speak about discrimination, racial identity, and depressive symptoms in African American college students. The talk begins at 4:00 p.m.
in Dana 146. Her talk will encourage students to examine the effects of race and to realize that it is
not an issue that will ever be resolved without the awareness of people of all races.

“My talk will describe a model for understanding how African American students make meaning of race as part of their
identity known as racial identity,” Banks said. While African Americans do not experience more depression than other students, there is
a direct positive relationship between the experience of racial discrimination and the reporting of depressive symptoms. That’s not to say
that every African American student will experience racial identity in the same way.

“As a group, African American students are not monolithic; therefore, I will touch on how different racial identity profiles influence
how students experience depressive symptoms in relation to racial discrimination,” Banks said. Banks’s topic of discussion is relevant even here
at Davidson, where the minority population is particularly small. “If we are seeking to prepare students to be productive citizens
in a diverse world, which is the aim of many liberal arts institutions, we should be seeking to learn about
and understand groups different than our own,” she said.

We can all benefit from trying to understand where others are coming from. We won’t get anywhere by pretending that
race does not affect other people or ourselves — unless you count running circles around an issue we sometimes conclude
will just work itself out. “My university is predominantly white as are my classes. White students have often asked, ‘Can
we really have a conversation about race with all white students?’ My answer is a resounding, ‘Yes.’ Race and racismHere
is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"have influenced the structure of our society. Therefore, we all have a right and responsibility to tackle this issue that
affects us all,” Banks said. While overt acts of racism at Davidson may be few and far between, discrimination does
exist, even if its effects can only be realized on a very personal level. Its lack of visibility does not,
by any means, make it less real or less harmful. “Some students wonder, ‘Is there really still racism? Haven’t we
gotten past that?’ Although we have made great strides with regard to racism in our society, it is still, unfortunately,
a reality,” Banks said. “I hope that students gain an understanding of racial identity as a concept that relates to
each of us, regardless of race.”

The various performers considered for campus events. The More Music Group suggests bands that have been successful at other college
campuses, and from there it is a matter of which touring schedules work with the dates available for the Baker
venue. Unfortunately, this year’s response to the survey was low. Only about half the campus responded, and neither band seemed
to have much support. Last year, there was a huge popular reaction to having Jon Stewart come to speak. Regrettably,
Mr. Stewart was not willing to speak in a large gym. This was problematic for the concert committee, as they
had to find an alternative at the very beginning of the semester. 311 and Guster were the only bands whose
schedules would allow them to come. Since neither band garnered much enthusiasm, the concerts committee decided to do something different.
Contributing to the community’s efforts to help New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, the committee has decided that this semester’s concert
at the Baker Sports Complex will be a benefit concert featuring the band Better than Ezra, with all proceeds going
to the American Red Cross. According to Doyle, this concert would be free for students with a suggested donation, and
members of the public would have to pay to attend. She also said the show will feature local artists from
New Orleans, many of whom have been left homeless and without any place to perform. Doyle said the committee and
Union Board are happy about this new option: “We as the Union Board are really excited about this benefit concert
because we feel like it is a win-win situation and something the whole student body will get behind.”

Apart from this new project, the concert committee is also working on getting two local acts to play the 900
Room. The committee itself will decide on these acts.

Sangria: a logical party bev
By RICHARD ELLIS
Staff Writer

As some of you may well know, machoism makes pulling off wine somewhat trickier than beer. It’s easy for guys
to strut into Food Lion, pick up a 12-pack o’ Guinness tiber stout, and return to a small group of
grinning friends who just realized tonight was a good night to mooch. Proudly present two bottles of Zinfandel, though, and
those same faces, which formerly resembled grunt-like Cheshire cats, now appear more like that of a baboon who just peeled
his banana to find nothing inside. When trying to get your friends into wine, knowledge can save your reputation’s figurative
rump. First, know the situation. If your friends want a beer run, don’t come back with wine. That'll confuse them.
Second, ease them into it. Pretend they’re 12-year-olds with serious cases of oppositional behavior. When wine drinkers are around, try
bringing back both beer and wine. If they still refuse the wine after you casually talk it up, devise an
excuse to leave each narrow-minded chap alone in a room next to a freshly poured glass. Take the remote with
you.

Sangria Recipe:
1.5 liters of cheap red wine (dry and/or fruity is better)
750 ml of Sprite
1/2 to 1/4 cup of cognac
1/2 fresh pineapple (sliced and diced)
1 orange
1 apple, (or pear, grapes or cherries)
Sweeten to taste with sugar
Refrigerate 3 hours to 3 days

If your male friends are simply the breed of dudes that cannot drink wine at a party without feeling their
testosterone levels drop, try making Sangria with it, tell them the root of the word is blood in Spanish and
that chicks dig guys who can pronounce it correctly. I’m actually serious about sangria. If done correctly, it transforms a
cheap red wine into a truly tasty, drinkable, and more alcoholic punch, all of which are good on a college
budget. The result is that one can spend $10 on a 1.5-liter bottle of Robert Mondavi, doctor it up with
some sugar and fruit, and then do their homework as their cost-per-unit-alcohol continues to improve. Take my word for it.
There are few party drinks as beautiful, sweet, classy, and refreshing as good Sangria. And don’t worry about your macho
friend; there isn’t a guy on the planet that’s too man for Spanish blood punch. Here’s why it’s so potent:
The yeast that makes the wine alcoholic isn’t dead; it has just used up all the sugar in alcoholic fermentation.
When you add more sugar to the wine, fermentation begins again and your Sangria becomes more alcoholic. This process continues
until the sugar is used up, or the yeast dies from an overly alcoholic environment. As a last resort, lie
to them.

Swedish Program
COME TO AN INFORMATIONAL MEETING
4:00 P.M.
Public Policy
Literature
Economics
Film
Psychology
History
Sociology
Art History
Women’s Studies
Politics
Environmental Studies
3084 CHAMBERS BUILDING
(315) 737-0123
The Swedish Program, Hamilton College, 198 College Hill Road, Clinton, New York 13323
www.swedishprogram.org
