4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

School starts search for new Dean of Admission

By Emily Kota
Senior Staff Writer

The search for a new Dean of Admission and Financial Aid is underway, following the resignation of former Dean Nancy
Cable. A broad job description is being written, and the position will soon be advertised. Witt/Kieffer is serving as the
college’s executive search firm. The company describes itself as “the nation’s largest and most experienced search firm that specializes in
the education and not-for-profit sectors.” The firm will help with the logistics of the process, as well as make connections
with potential applicants who might be interested in the position but are not actively job searching.

A representative from Witt/Kieffer visited campus and met with faculty and staff in order to formulate a job description and
get a feeling of Davidson’s needs. While qualifications for the position have not been formalized, College President Bobby Vagt looks
to the example set by Cable, who acted “as a face of the voice of the community.” Vagt hopes to
find someone who can act as an “ambassador of the campus” and who is experienced, creative, and fully understands the
nature of Davidson. Additionally, Vagt said the position should be filled by a person of “great integrity and high professional
standards.”

Advertising the position is the next step in the process, followed by taking resumes and applications for the job. A
committee comprised of various faculty and staff members will review submitted applications. The committee includes Professor of French and chair
of the Faculty Admissions Committee Homer Sutton, Associate Professor of Biology Karen Bernd, Professor of Psychology Julio Ramirez, Vice President
of College Relations Kristin Hills Bradberry, and Director of Human Resources Carl Sorenson.

After selecting the candidates that best suit Davidson’s needs, the committee will conduct telephone interviews, which will be followed up
by airport interviews with approximately 8-10 applicants. Airport interviews are a common practice and take place at the airport. The
committee will travel there in order for the process to run more smoothly. Next, three to four candidates will visit
the campus to be interviewed by a wide variety of people.

Summer is the best time for the search to become very active for several reasons. First, as the admissions cycle
runs, the process cannot begin until new acceptances are completed. Additionally, most potential applicants for the position will begin looking
at available opportunities later in the year. Vagt expressed concern over the potential lack of student involvement in the process,
because the majority of the process will occur over the summer. He is confident that there will be enough students
on campus over the summer to gauge general student opinion. The Board of Trustees, which will be involved from the
airport interviews on, will make a recommendation. Vagt hopes to fill the position by the beginning of the 2005-2006 academic
year.

Enter today for a chance to win the tools you need to get ready for grad school!
Prizes include:
» Kaplan programs and services
» Dell laptops
» Tickets from STA Travel to visit your target grad school
» And more!

Visit kaptest.com/giveaway by May 31 to enter!
Test Prep and Admissions Marketing Department, 1440 Broadway, 8th Floor, New York, NY 10018.
1-800-KAP-TEST
kaptest.com/giveaway

NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. Open to legal residents of the 50 United States and the District of
Columbia and Canada (excluding the Province of Quebec) and students residing on a student visa in these eligible jurisdictions who
are eighteen (18) years of age or older as of March 16, 2005. LIMIT: One entry per person. All entries
must be received or postmarked by May 31, 2005. For additional eligibility restrictions and instructions to enter, see the complete
Official Rules, available at Kaplan centers and on-campus sites in the U.S. and Canada, online at kaptest.com/giveaway, or by sending
a self-addressed, stamped envelope to Grad School Giveaway, 1440 Broadway, 8th Floor, New York, NY 10018. Three (3) winners will
be selected from all eligible entries received in a random drawing to be held on or about July 8, 2005.
Odds of winning depend on total number of eligible entries. Constitutes entrant's full and unconditional agreement to and acceptance of
the complete Official Rules. VOID WHERE PROHIBITED, TAXED, OR OTHERWISE RESTRICTED. If you do not wish to receive notice of
future Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions promotions, contact us at Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions.

Batten, continued from page 3

college that, appropriately, prides itself on courses that are not pre-professional,” Vagt said. “It’s nice to interject a piece of
the real world into the liberal arts curriculum.”

Taylor Batten, the son of James Batten and editor with the Charlotte Observer, thought Hauser’s talk conveyed an important message.
“I think the lecture was timely as all of us in the industry...are facing the economic forces [Hauser] discussed,” Batten
said. “The industry has some huge challenges ahead of it in addressing the current decline in readership.” Batten agreed with
many of Hauser’s main arguments. “We need to make sure the readers get what they want and need. In the
end, high-quality journalism is essential to survival,” Batten said.

Charles Horwitz ’08 said, “He offered an interesting explanation as to how he believes the quality of news in America
has deteriorated in the past few decades. Batten’s discussion of the increasing role of commercialism and profit in the news
made me disappointed, but it’s something that we must all be aware of when reading the news.”

Attendee Ellen Giduz, the wife of Davidson’s News Director Bill Giduz, enjoyed the talk. “I could have listened to him
for three to four more hours,” said Giduz, who found Hauser’s portrayal of the newspaper industry darker than her own.
“He seemed to paint a bleaker picture than I would have imagined.”

Responding to questions after the talk, Hauser commented on the special interest stories that dominate the news such as the
recent Michael Jackson and Scott Peterson cases. “If we only talked about the things we thought were important and didn’t
cover things that were interesting, we’d be pretty dull,” Hauser said.

“Quality journalism will survive. The good, big newspapers will survive as they are the only medium that can set the
national standard for news. The local newspapers will survive by providing accurate, detailed coverage of local news.” --Charles Hauser, Batten
Professor of Public Policy

Despite the challenges facing print journalism, Hauser predicts newspapers will remain popular for years to come. “Newspapers won’t disappear for
a long time,” he said. “There’s something special about holding a newspaper in your hand.”

Hauser boasts a distinguished career as a journalist. He is a member of the Academy of New England Journalists and
was inducted into the North Carolina Journalism Hall of Fame. The James K. Batten Professorship in Public Policy was established
in memory of James K. Batten ’57 in 1995 through grants from the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation
and Knight-Ridder, Inc.

Books, continued from page 1

The library functions on an Honor System, and students caught removing books from the library without first checking them out
are reported to the Honor Council. Penalties for such violations include performing hours of public service work, paying fines, and
writing a letter of apology. “I’m not worried about students stealing books for profit,” Park said. “But I worry about
students' sense of community. The Honor Code is a gift from students who have gone before, and students must check
out books for it to continue.”

Park encourages faculty members to discuss the importance of the Honor System in the library with their classes and encourages
students to talk about the issue in their dorms and eating houses. Park also urges students and faculty to help
locate the missing books. “We hope the College Family will continue to value the Honor System in the library and
work hard to preserve it,” Park says. “It is one of Davidson’s finest traditions. It would be tragic to lose
it.”

Duncan Berry ’07 and Walter Wiggins ’07 study in the library with a large stack of books. The library has
seen an increase in the number of missing books this year.

Lake, continued from page 3

Student talents will also be displayed through a Battle of the Bands showcase. Lewis Beard ’07, member of the Battle
of the Bands-winning Blue Barnstormers, said, “We're really excited about the prospect of playing at April at the Lake, although
we have a lot of work to do between now and then considering we’ve only been together for four days.”

Student favorites, quesadillas and s’mores, will also be available around a roaring bonfire and on boat tours. Saik expects “the
event to appeal to all aspects of the campus.” But, he is aware of how busy the social calendar is
this time of year. He hopes “the wide range of events draws that crowd out to the lake over particular
court houses.”

During the 2005-2006 academic year, the Union Board plans to take over April at the Lake. A new committee, currently
called the Lake Campus Committee, has been formed to plan events that utilize the Lake Campus throughout the school year.
“We want to have more events, not only in the spring, but also in the fall, out at the Lake
Campus,” said current Concert Committee Chair and 2005-06 Union Board Vice President Katherine Cox ’07.
