LIVING THE DAVIDSONIAN  
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2005  

Meirelles shines with ‘Gardener’  
By STEVE KALISKI  
Senior Staff Writer  

I don’t think I’m being too naive if I say that, for his next movie, Brazilian director Fernando Meirelles owes us a romantic comedy. Anything will do; whether with talking puppies, impromptu strolls through Central Park, confrontations at coffee houses, or supporting characters played by Joan Cusack, Meirelles now has a splendid opportunity to prove that his abilities extend beyond the boundaries of beautifully filmed, morally provocative international docu-thrillers. His first film, the kinetic and overpowering “City of God,” exposed the audience to the flooring horrors of youth culture in the slums of Rio de Janeiro. His newest film, the equally beautiful and almost-as-shattering “The Constant Gardener,” shifts the scene to Africa and takes similar pleasure in revealing relevant atrocities in faraway lands.

Based on the novel by John Le Carré, “The Constant Gardener” convincingly suggests that the West abuses Africa as an unethical playground for medical experimentation. With heavy doses of romance, suspense, and rousing current-events consciousness, this film follows the odyssey of a tortured British diplomat (Ralph Fiennes) as he investigates the mysterious causes of his activist wife’s death (Rachel Weisz). What he uncovers is a pharmaceutical scandal that penetrates the upper tiers of his country’s business aristocracy.

The obvious question surrounding “The Constant Gardener” is that of its accuracy. While such films as “City of God” and “Hotel Rwanda” depended on real events for the cruxes of their stories, Meirelles’s latest movie borrows its narrative drive from a work of bestselling fiction. If “The Constant Gardener” has one drawback, then this slightly Grisham-esque sense of editorial liberty is it. Meirelles’s indictment of pharmaceutical companies is both severe and specific, and while we sense that corruption on this scale may appear from time to time, we don’t know for sure if actual stories such as the Merck/Vioxx issue deserve this degree of pounding. However, for all the earnestness of “Hotel Rwanda,” that film cannot compete with “The Constant Gardener’s” overall presentation of Africa as a dumping ground for Western irresponsibility. Meirelles refuses to pander to Lifetime mawkishness or PG-13 simplicity in his vivid, uncompromising tale. One scene, in which a European doctor (Pete Postlethwaite) reveals to Fiennes’s Justin Quayle that the only humanitarian medicine given to his Kenyan practice has long since expired, reminds the audience of how little Western society must do in order to cleanse its conscience.

On a purely cinematic level, the film triumphs over all of this year’s competitors. From the burnt reds of Kenya to the sterilized whites of Great Britain, Meirelles’s brilliant use of exaggerated color consistently manages to evoke place and mood without feeling pretentious. Furthermore, one of this young director’s greatest strengths is that he never allows his own talent to overshadow the talents of his collaborators. In a role entirely dependent upon flashback, Weisz makes the strongest impression of her career, and I have never before seen the stoic Fiennes so not-completely stiff. With “City of God” and “The Constant Gardener,” Fernando Meirelles seems poised for a trilogy of stimulating social power. Perhaps we should toughen up and wait just a little bit longer for that inevitable romantic comedy.

RATING: ★★★★☆

Photo courtesy of Shasta College

Get your water credit with style  
By KATHRYN WYLE  
Staff Writer  

Freshman orientation. Some of you probably remember your freshman orientation colored by the rosy glow of nostalgia: that first nervous night with a new roommate, ridiculous costumes for freshman Olympics, and late nights spent...Studying the Facebook in the vain hope of actually learning all the names of 475 people in your class. Others like to moan about sorting through rotten potatoes or the seemingly endless parade of speakers with equally infinite advice and information. But there is one thing that all students recall: the swim test. Does anyone besides water ballet aficionados actually recognize the side stroke? I think not. Yet most of us bluff our way to the end and back. There, as we breathe a sigh of relief and, while shaking the water out of our ears, we find ourselves confronted by a new dilemma: what to do for that darn water credit? Scuba diving? Perhaps not, given that Lake Norman offers little to rival better-known marine wonderlands other than the occasional submerged house. See Kayaking, page 7

Television is essential for all at Davidson
By REID WILDMAN
Arts and Living Editor

At some point or another in our lives, we have all been told of the dangers and temptations that lurk in a certain small square-shaped box present in all of our homes. The television is frequently associated with an almost mystical capability to subvert and corrupt the minds of our innocent youth. I can easily recall the day when, in my seventh year of life, an elderly woman approached me in Barnes and Noble (where I was looking at a book about TV), revealing to me the hideous fact that TV would rot my brain.

Even though I often feel like pieces of my brain are slowly and critically deteriorating, this is probably due to mad cow disease, not TV. On second thought, it is probably because of the full and rigorous lifestyle that all of us here at Davidson are so familiar with. It is this very fact that makes television so important for us all. We need an outlet for the stress heaped upon us by our hectic lifestyles. Clearly, intoxication is a popular form of stress relief for many college students. Yet, I have found vegetating in front of the infamous “black box” to be a more pleasing alternative. First, I rarely vomit when watching television, unless I have just eaten the meatloaf at Vail Commons. Second, I have never been as talented as others at seducing the lovely ladies of Patterson Court. Yet, the mere press of a button on the remote control gives me access to a wide array of “Desperate Housewives.”

Recently, one of my friends bought the first season of “Lost” on DVD. In between assorted meetings, tests, and paper-writing, we would get together to watch “Lost” as a study break. And let me tell you, nothing makes you feel better about having to read yet another section of “Paradise Lost” than watching someone else crash on a deserted island in the middle of nowhere, only to be chased by some large creature rumbling around in the jungle. It seems clear that television can have its advantages. Of course, many of you would probably rather do something else with your valuable time than finding out about the latest personal crises on “The O.C.” I suppose I must accept this sad fact. Yet, whether a fan of TV or not, we all need some way to fit some relaxation into our busy schedules. We can all function better if we take a little break here and there. So, without further ado, pick up your remote control, press the “On/Off” button and vegetate!

WRITE FOR ARTS. GET PAID DOING IT. SENIOR STAFF WRITER POSITIONS AVAILABLE.