THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2005

15

’Cats enjoy best finishes at Regionals

By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Senior Staff Writer

On Nov. 12, in Greenville, North Carolina, the Wildcat cross country teams finished out their seasons in the Southeast NCAA Regional Meets. The men’s team came in 20th out of 30 teams, while the women finished 11th out of 28. The women achieved what Coach Jen Straub says is the best result for Davidson women’s cross country in a regional meet.

Lance Harden ’09 said the men improved dramatically from what he heard of last year’s results. “Last year we finished last, so we didn’t really have anywhere to go but up. I mean, I guess we could have finished last out of more teams, but still.” As the first big meet for either team since their midseason meets at Lehigh, the ’Cats faced their toughest competition since October 1.

On the men’s side of things, the Wildcats were paced by captain Jonathan Baker ’06, whose time of 32:17 in the 10K was good for 83rd place overall. Harden, who was close behind him in 32:32, said, “Baker ran the fastest time on the Eastern Carolina course of any Davidson athlete.”

Austin Mercadante ’06 finished his cross country career with a time of 33:31, one second ahead of Sam Morris ’08, and Alex Hoyt ’09 rounded out the top five for the ’Cats at 34:01. Douglas Noreen ’07 and James Garrett ’09 took sixth and seventh positions on the team.

Said Harden, “All season we’ve been running 8K races and this was a 10K, so that was a bit of a challenge as far as pre-race strategy. Baker’s strategy was to run an 8K and then hang on for the last 2K, so he was well ahead of me for the entire race. So, unlike in some previous meets, we didn’t work together. I started out more conservatively, and I ended up passing about 20 people in the last 2K, so that was pretty satisfying.”

The women’s team ran the meet without the services of their third runner and still managed a strong finish. “We had some adversity going into the meet but all of the girls stepped up and it was a great team effort. Many of the girls ran personal best times,” said co-captain Allie Martin ’06.

Martin finished second on the Davidson team in 21:53 on the 6K course, behind co-captain Brenna Burns ’08, who completed the course in 21:13 and whose 27th-place finish overall was just shy of All-Regional honors. The two co-captains, who have led the Cats runners all year, were followed in scoring by Caroline Sanker ’09 (22:16), Emily King ’09 (22:30), and Annie O’Donnell ’08 (22:52). Also running for the ’Cats’ top seven were Kim Lang ’09 and Lucy Rogers ’09. “It was an exciting meet, and I know that Davidson will continue to place better at the regional meet over the next few years,” Martin said. “I believe our season was very successful. We accomplished our goal of winning conference, and then we went on to place highly at the regional meet despite some adversities. This team is very young, so the future looks exciting.”

Harden also commented on the women’s future: “I’m really excited for them because everyone except Allie is coming back, so they’ve got some opportunity for sustained success.” The men’s future, Harden said, is also bright. “Thad Sieraki ’09 has been out all season with a stress fracture, so next year he should be able to at least partly offset the graduation of Jonny and Austin. He was the most heralded recruit coming in, and he’s got a lot of talent.” Harden also anticipates a strong recruiting class coming in for next year’s men’s team.

The teams celebrated their successes together with a cross country party after returning to campus on Saturday. They plan on enjoying joint team dinners at Commons, a tradition Harden says is sure to last through the off-season.

---

write for
sports:
email
pitrumbo
or
mojamouneau

All majors are encouraged to apply, but you must have a bachelor’s degree by July 1, 2005. Knowledge of Japanese NOT required!

Participants receive a substantial stipend, benefits, and free roundtrip airfare to Japan!

(404) 926-3020

Join the JET Program and Discover Japan

A once in a lifetime opportunity...
The Government of Japan Invites Young Graduates to Spend a Year Teaching English in Japan!

Now accepting applications for the 2006 Japan Exchange and Teaching (JET) Program!
Deadline: Nov. 29, 2005

For more information, contact the Consulate General of Japan in Atlanta at:
www.japanatlanta.org or (404) 926-3020