THE DAVIDSONIAN

Campus Police Blotter

1/8 Martin Court Fire Alarm
Officer was dispatched to a fire alarm in Hart apartments. Officer spoke with the resident of the apartment, who had
been defrosting a hamburger bun in the microwave and forgotten he had put it in there. No damage was reported.

1/14 Belk Dormitory - Suspicious Persons
Police received a call stating that three unknown masked males had entered a student’s room and began banging pots. The
police reported to the scene, but the masked males were not found.

1/15 Excessive Noise Duke Dormitory
Students were reported as partying and being boisterous in a men’s bathroom in Duke. They left before police arrived on
the scene.

1/16 Belk Dormitory Fire Alarm
Fire alarm was pulled in Belk dormitory. No fire was found. Instead, an intoxicated female student was found passed out
on the lawn, but it was determined that she would not need medical attention.

1/16 Sidewalk Injured Person
A student was found lying on the sidewalk in vomit. Friends reported that he was intoxicated, had vomited, and then
fallen, hitting his head on the sidewalk. He was transported to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center.

1/17 Property Theft
A student’s wallet was stolen. The wallet contained credit cards, a student ID card, and $50.

1/17 Richardson Dormitory Crime Prevention
Officer noticed in Richardson dorm that a lounge closet door had been removed and placed across two chairs. On each
end of this makeshift table were red plastic cups, one of which had a ping pong ball inside. Two empty
beer cans were also found. No students were found nearby.

News

WEDNESDAY, January 19, 2005

Neighborhood robbed of holiday spirit
Value totals $31,000; victims include profs and staff

By BLEVINS SHELNUTT
Senior Staff Writer

An eruption of burglaries occurred in the Davidson area over the holiday season. Several Davidson faculty and staff members were
affected by the thefts. The twenty-four break-ins took place between December 15 and December 26 and were confined to the
McConnell neighborhood off Concord Road. Police are also aware of four other failed break-in attempts in the area.

Dr. Dennis Appleyard, McConnell resident and Chair of Davidson’s Economics Department, was out of town December 21, the night the
thieves broke into his home. Appleyard believes the thieves used a ladder or each other’s shoulders to come through one
of two probable entry windows. As the thieves covered their tracks well, Appleyard did not immediately realize someone had been
in his house upon his return the following morning. Only after two days did he discover various items, including jewelry
and sterling silver, were missing. Appleyard said, “There is a great sense of violation, of course, and the items taken
had, as well as monetary value, high sentimental value to me. I am shocked that a rash of such thefts
has occurred in Davidson.”

Health educator Georgia Ringle’s home was also burglarized. She and her husband were out of town December 22 to December
29, and on December 26 neighbor Frank Molinek noticed the back door to their house was open. “The house was
neat and very little was taken, mostly jewelry,” Ringle said. “Some of it was nice and gold, but other things
were not expensive, like seed pearls. They [the burglars] seemed to have looked in closets as well.”

The burglaries are unusual as the thieves often ignored wrapped Christmas presents and expensive items, and instead took items that
were worth less. While they passed up alcohol and weapons, the thieves did take homemade cookies and bars of soap.
However, the total value of items stolen still amounts to approximately $31,000.

Chief John Kearin of the Davidson Police Department believes the thieves are young adults familiar with the neighborhood. Most of
the thefts took place during the day when no one was home, and the thieves most likely pried open a
door or window to enter. They were very cautious as they took care to leave things the way they found
them.

“It is very disquieting to know that thieves are entering neighbors’ homes in McConnell and areas adjoining ours,” said Spanish
professor and McConnell resident Mary Vasquez.“The belief held by the Davidson Police that the person responsible lives right in our
neighborhood is even more troubling. The case will eventually be solved, though, I feel sure. Meanwhile, all of us are
especially careful with locks.”

Students adjust to ‘re-entry shock’ after studying abroad
By Liz Barry
News Editor

Davidson’s Study Abroad Office, Dean Rusk Student Advisory Counsel, and Student Counseling Center are trying to increase ways to reach
out to upperclassmen who may be struggling with readjustment issues after studying abroad.

“We have known that there is a real need to help students deal with re-entry at Davidson and we are
trying to better address that need,” Study Abroad Coordinator Carolyn Ortmayer said.

At the beginning of the semester, Ortmayer sent a letter home to parents of students returning from abroad this semester
explaining the possibility of “re-entry shock” and giving ways to help their child have a smoother transition. During the third
week of the semester, Director of Student Health and Counseling David Staton will send an e-mail to students who have
returned from abroad with tips on how to deal with adjustment issues. He encourages students who are struggling with re-entry
shock to schedule an appointment with the Student Counseling Center.

In addition, the Dean Rusk Student Advisory Counsel is holding a meeting for students who have studied abroad to get
together and share their experiences on January 24. They also encourage students to get involved in internationally related activities on
campus.

Over the years, Staton has spoken to many students about the challenges of studying abroad and readjusting to campus life.
The most common issues that students bring up are reverse culture shock, friend or relationship changes, and new difficulties with
Davidson academic pressures.

“Many students who I have talked to feel like people do not understand or are dismissive of their abroad experiences,”
Staton said. “Students who go abroad can really benefit from sharing their experiences with others who have gone abroad.”

After spending a semester in the Spanish town of Seville, Haley Acuff ’07 anticipated some of the challenges of leaving
her newfound friends and returning to life at Davidson. At times, Acuff said that the first few nights back at
school were difficult.

“It seems like I had the same conversation with people ten times,” Acuff said. “You come back and nothing seems
to have changed and no one wants to hear about your trip. It is a little frustrating.”

While Staton has rarely encountered a student who has regretted his or her study abroad experience, it is not uncommon
for students with certain fixed expectations to experience unexpected challenges and disappointment.

“When students are abroad, the demands on the interactions they have are way up but their support system has gone
way down,” Staton said. “Despite the challenges, almost everyone I have spoken to is universally very glad that they studied
abroad.”

Serra Aygun ’06, who studied in London last semester, said that because Davidson is so small and many students are
eager to get away for a semester, study abroad experiences tend to be hyped up.

“It seemed like the only thing I heard about study abroad was people saying that it was the best four
months of their lives,” Aygun said. “I vowed to myself that when I came back I would give an honest
answer when people ask me about my experiences.”

Many students feel overwhelmed by the large number of new faces on campus, especially when the first weekend back of
the semester is court selection, which revolves around the freshmen.

“I feel like I am kind of a stranger in some ways,” said Peter Carolla ’06, who studied in Ghana
and South Africa. “It seems like I was gone for much longer than I actually was. All the seniors I
knew last year are gone and I do not know any of the freshmen.”

However, because so many students go abroad each year, there is a fairly large group of people to share experiences
with. “It helps that there is a huge population that has been
