THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2005 7

‘Loggerhead’ stars Kip Pardue as a man on a journey for self-discovery. The film will open this Friday in the
Charlotte area.

Film encourages search for self-identity
By JARROD BLUE
Arts and Living Editor

Over the past few months, we have all asked the questions of: Why? What was I thinking? These questions have
been raised as we have endured the painfully eye-throbbing films that have been churned out of Hollywood like “Fantastic Four”
and “House of Wax.” However, Hollywood may be regaining its sanity with the release of “Loggerheads” this Friday.

“Loggerheads” is based on the true story of an adoption “triad”: birth mother, child, and adoptive parents that unfolds in
three separate regions of North Carolina over three years. In the film, we are introduced to Mark (Kip Pardue), featured
in “Remember the Titans” (2000), who desires to find himself as he helps save loggerhead sea turtles at Kure Beach
after “coming out” to his adoptive parents. In the Appalachian Mountains, Grace (Bonnie Hunt) quits her job as she begins
the process of finding the son that she resentfully gave up. In the middle of the state, Elizabeth (Tess Harper)
tries to persuade her conservative husband (Chris Sarandon) to reconnect with their estranged son.

The film does an excellent job of tackling tough issues, such as the pain and joy associated with adoption and
homosexuality from all points of view. Furthermore, the film takes its audience on a mental journey with its characters as
they all search for their self-identity and the tough process of accepting their flaws before they can be accepted by
others. The film takes an expected climactic turn as it approaches the end of the film, but the response of
the characters to the twist becomes the shocking element of this film. The movie does not create characters that change
as we would like them to in order to bring closure for the audience by the end, which adds to
the realism of the film.

The only problem with this movie is that it takes place over several years that are mixed throughout it, which
at times can become confusing. However, if this can be overlooked, you are in for a great cinematic experience. When
I sat down with Gill Holland, producer of the film and son of retired Davidson English professor Gill Holland, he
told me that he of course thought that this was a great film to get behind, but that this film
hopes to raise some serious problems with the current adoption process in the United States, specifically North Carolina. I would
agree that the film provokes these issues and highlights the long-term effects of the adoption process. This film will not
attempt to change your opinions on adoption or homosexuality, but will focus your attention on the hurdle that all humans
at some point and time will have to face, self-identity.

“Loggerheads” will open for limited release in Charlotte this Friday at the Regal Stonecrest at Piper Glen, located at 7824
Rea Road.

Let’s talk about porn
By GEORGIE AHRENDT
Health Advisor

So what’s the deal with pornography? The deal is that Americans dole out a whopping $12 billion a year for
pornographic materials. What they get in return is a matter of opinion. No matter how you feel about the issue
of pornography, one thing is clear: It has become central to American culture. And it’s here to stay.

The porn business is one of the largest consumer industries in the United States. It rakes in more money than
the earnings of ABC, CBS and NBC combined. Child pornography alone makes $3 billion every year. If you’ve ever used
Yahoo, driven a GM car or stayed at a Marriott, Westin or Hilton hotel, you’ve used the services of a
company that buys, sells or distributes pornography. These companies keep these dealings under wraps, and even though they’re not eager
to offer up the information, they’re making millions from porn. If corporate America cannot ultimately deny its existence, then how
can we?

Last Wednesday’s “Pornography: What’s the Deal?” program was a great step in beginning the talk about an issue we often
ignore or feel uncomfortable discussing. Yet those in attendance last week made it clear that talking about itdoesn’t have to
be so painful. Whether or not you’d like to admit it, pornography affects us all, and it can’t be ignored.
What exactly is pornography, anyway, and where do we draw the line between erotic and obscene, harmless and destructive? It’s
quite clear that pornography isn’t going anywhere, but an ongoing dialogue is still necessary. Why? Because our culture loves porn.
Undeniably, the demand exists. So what does this say about us? Why is it so common? If it’s true that
we are what we do, I think we’ve got some serious explaining to do. Some say that pornography is “just
a business.” The demand is there, so why not meet it? But it’s a business with human beings at its
center. So what are we really dealing with?

READY, SET, SERVE

Serving abroad gives the chance to Each summer, Davidson's Community Service Office leads an international service trip, which is available
for freshmen-juniors. Last summer, nine students and two staff members participated in order to learn about agricultural farming. During the
two-week trip, Davidson students worked side by side with the local citizens of Ollantaytambo, Peru plowing and planting in the
fields of the farming community. In this piece, Karina Nascimento (‘08) reflects on her experiences serving and being served in
Peru. The 2006 international service trip location will be announced before the end of the semester, and the application process
will begin in January.

By KARINA NASCIMENTO
Special Contributor
May 19, 2005

Running at 13,000 feet is a very unique experience. We ran along the main road that eventually let out into
the main square of Ollantaytambo. The altitude immediately took a toll on our states’ blood, and we were forced to
walk, completely out of breath after about three minutes. As we walked, it was as if the sweat of running
had removed some of our tourist-ness. We stared at the incredible view and watched as the sun rose above and
behind the mountains, shedding a new light to the village. It was just a few minutes from the time we
woke up and already the sun was providing a different landscape. As we walked, we encountered children in the village
walking in matching uniforms holding hands along the road. We quickly joined the crowd and walked with the brothers, sisters,
and friends to school. They told us about their day, the classes they were taking, and how long school was.
I loved the fact that these children gave us a chance as friends. They were different from the other people
in the town that endlessly came up with a different merchandise item in hope that we might change our mind
from the other five days that we declined their offer. The children saw us as more than the transient tourists
that arrived each morning to see the ruins and then left that same night without even the slightest acknowledgement of
who lived in the town. I was again confronted and humbled by the lack of power I have as an
individual. We spent many days learning and attempting to help in the fields of the people that we stayed with.
We moved old corn stalks on our backs to different fields alongside Peruvians, a young boy easily carrying triple the
amount on his back. We planted small tree stalks into rocks and beneath other trees. We weeded the field for
hours to see that at the end of the day we only covered an eighth of what needed to be
done. The Peruvians with us constantly stopped what they were doing to teach and encourage us. The work that we
did in 10 days could have been completed by them in two days. The actual physical work was much less
service from us, but service from them. It’s a unique experience to go on a service trip and realize it
is you that is being served.

Let’s continue to talk about it—even if corporate America won’t.

Peru is located on the western side of South America, bordering the Pacific Ocean and three countries.
