2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson alumnus wins City Council position

By JACKIE MCKEON & AMANDA STEPHENS
News Editor & Staff Writer

Mecklenburg County elections were held yesterday, with two Davidson alumni running for office. Former Davidson College Government Association (SGA) President Anthony Foxx ’93 (D) won the City Council At-Large position along with Susan Burgess (D), John Lassiter (R), and Pat Mumford (R). Eight candidates ran for the four available positions, which created a close race.

Davidson alum Lenny McAllister ’93 ran for the Davidson Board of Commissioners but lost to Evan Webster. Webster won the election with 932 votes against McAllister’s 875. Six candidates ran for the five seats on the Davidson Board of Commissioners. Cary Wolf Johnston, Bruce McMillen, Margo Williams, and John M. Woods were the four incumbent candidates while Webster won the fifth position.

“Four of the six people running for the five seats are incumbents, and the mayor is unopposed, so Davidson’s government and direction won’t change much,” SGA Liaison Sam Spencer ’07 said before the elections. The Board is elected every two years and is a non-partisan race.

The Charlotte Mecklenburg Schools (CMS) bond package referendum was the most contested issue on the ballot this year. School Bonds failed with 57 percent voting “no” and 43 percent “yes.” The proposed package called for $427 million to be spent on elementary, middle, and high schools in the county over the next 10 years. Davidson IB Middle School would have received $4 million for a 2009 renovation.

Davidson is part of School District One, which has seen enormous growth over the past few years. Advocates of the package argued that CMS needs more classrooms to handle increased enrollment. More classrooms mean better quality of life for students, which would create a stronger public school system.

“Davidson has been growing rapidly just like the rest of North Meck, so schools are especially important. District One now has more registered voters than any other school board/county commission district in the county,” Spencer said. “There aren’t enough school seats for all of North Meck’s children, and it’s a problem that desperately needs solving.”

Those who were against the package argued that it was too costly and would raise property taxes. Others argued that school board money had not been managed properly in the past and were skeptical of future appropriations.

Larry Gauvreau and Rhonda Lennon ran for the Board of Education District One. Though both candidates wanted to change the school system, they differed on how to do so. Gauvreau favored overhauling the system completely while Lennon favored institutional change within the existing system. Gauvreau defeated Lennon 52 percent to 48 percent with a 19 percent voter turnout.

The current Mayor of Davidson Randall R. Kincaid ran unopposed for reelection.

Briefly International Development Careers Lecture

Tom Frist ’67, who has worked in health-related projects in Asia, Africa, and Latin America, will speak on “Thinking about a Career in International Relief and Development” at the Alvarez College Union Smith 900 Room on Thursday, November 10 at 7:30 p.m. The lecture is sponsored by the Dean Rusk Program.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2005

CALEA regulations may result in surveillance of email use by college students.

New email mandate may raise college expenditures

By COLLEEN MCKOWN
Senior Staff Writer

A recent update to the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (CALEA) could cost Davidson College a considerable amount of money on a computer network overhaul. Originally exempt from CALEA regulations, educational institutions must now allow law enforcement agencies toMonitor their Internet networks through the “First Report and Order,” officially enacted on October 13. Universities, colleges, K-12 schools, and libraries must purchase new equipment, train personnel, and implement new policies and procedures to enable Internet surveillance within the next 18 months. Performing computer system overhauls could burden institutions financially, which would then increase tuition costs. “There is no doubt full compliance will impose unreasonable costs on institutions,” Executive Director of Information Technology Services Mur Muchane said. “It is too early, however, to predict how all of this will affect Davidson.” “The exact requirements of CALEA are not clear and could change. One scenario might involve replacing our network gear to make it CALEA compliant.”

Educause, a nonprofit agency that promotes intelligent use of information technology, argues that schools and universities should be exempt from the CALEA “First Report and Order” mandate because of the high expense it would impose. Last year, Educause organized a coalition made up of officials from colleges and universities, K-12 schools, libraries, and legal experts that filed complaints before the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Educause argued that Congress, and not the FCC, should make decisions about extending the CALEA mandate to higher education. Educause also claimed that law enforcement agencies have sufficient access to networks without CALEA, and that the cost of compliance outweighs the benefits to law enforcement. According to Educause, incidents calling for surveillance on college campuses come up very rarely and the cost per incident would be unnecessarily high.

Muchane recently attended the annual Educause conference in Orlando, Florida and agreed that law enforcement agencies already have adequate access. “From my perspective, the CALEA act is rather excessive,” Muchane said. “Existing laws give law enforcement sufficient access without CALEA.” The FCC asked the Educause coalition to try and reach an agreement with the Department of Justice (DOJ). As a result, Educause has currently made a proposal to the DOJ that better meets law enforcement requirements at a lower cost. “I do hope a deal will be worked out with the Department of Justice,” Muchane said. “If a deal is not worked out—I suspect we will see lawsuits to try and rein this back in.”

Congress passed the highly controversial CALEA in 1994, which initially just required telephone companies to make call records and phone tapping available to law enforcement agencies. CALEA also stipulated that the people whose conversations were being monitored by law enforcement agencies would not be able to detect the surveillance. In March 2004, law enforcement agencies such as the DOJ, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) requested that the provisions of the CALEA be extended to Internet communication. However, higher education systems were exempt from this act since their networks were considered “private.” “First Report and Order” was passed in August 2005 and required that the regulations of CALEA be extended to institutions, including education systems, that provide broadband Internet access. On October 13, 2005, the order was published in the Federal Register and officially took effect.

CE BLOTTER

Property Theft

Victim advised that an unknown person(s) unlawfully removed his hammock from the tree behind Belk Dormitory. The suspect had also taken the victim’s backpack and several other items and put them in a nearby trash dumpster. These items were recovered; however, the hammock is still missing. Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety.