THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31, 2005 15

Women’s soccer beats UNCC, falls to Wake

By MEGHAN CURTIS
Staff Writer

If anything, women’s soccer’s loss to No. 21 Wake Forest last Sunday has only made them more determined to make this season a success.

Starting out the year with a loss in their exhibition game against the University of South Carolina Gamecocks, the ’Cats stepped up for a comeback win against UNC Charlotte.

Regular play began last Friday against the 49ers (0-1). This win marks the first time in its history that Davidson has beaten UNCC on their home turf, and it was only its second win ever against the team, with the first one last year at Davidson.

The Wildcats started the game off strong by scoring early in the first period with a sister-to-sister play. Kara Koehrn ’06 assisted sister Kristen Koehrn ’08 on the first goal of the evening.

The goal was made with 20:21 left in the first period from about five yards out. UNCC responded quickly with a goal of their own.

Just 11 seconds after UNCC’s response, Kara Koehrn scored an unassisted goal to lead the ’Cats to their victory.

The second half of the game remained scoreless.

“The team looked very strong and confident against such a large school, which was very encouraging,” Kara Koehrn said. “That game will give us a good start headed into a tough beginning of the season schedule.”

On Sunday, the team competed against Wake Forest.

Bring your Davidson ID and receive a FREE Port City Java Iced or Brewed Coffee for the month of September

Free Wireless Internet for All Customers

We're open: Mon-Fri 6 a.m., Weekends 7 a.m. 19930 West Catawba Ave., Cornelius

The ’Cats started out strong, playing tough defense and preventing any goals until the middle of the first half. The Demon Deacons’ first goal was scored with 23:15 left in the first half.

Wake Forest followed with another goal a little more than two minutes later. The final goal of the half was scored by the opposing team with 11:13 left to play.

The second half remained scoreless until Wake Forest posted a goal with 29:12 left in the second half.

They followed 10 minutes later with their final goal.

Davidson’s only goal was scored by midfielder Cady Blackey ’06 off of a corner kick by Jessica Lahre ’07 with 4:59 left in the second half.

Wake won the game with a 5-1 decision. “The score didn’t truly reflect the opportunities we created,” said coach Greg Ashton.

“Although we lost, it was an opportunity to get some of our first-year students out on the field,” he said. “It was good to expose them to a high level of play early in their collegiate careers.”

“We know what we’re up against, but we are going to play to compete, and hopefully those games will make us quicker, smarter players to get us ready for our Southern Conference games,” said Kara Koehrn.

Davidson will travel to challenge the University of North Carolina, Duke, Kent State, and Northwestern before returning home to play against UNC Wilmington on Sept. 16.

WANT TO WRITE OR TAKE PHOTOS FOR SPORTS?

EMAIL PITRUMBO OR MOJAMOUNEAU

EXPERIENCE FOR YOUR RESUME. MONEY FOR COLLEGE.

Strengthening your personal skills is not the only benefit of joining the Army. You can also receive cash bonuses and money for college. If you qualify, you can receive a $20,000 Enlistment Bonus, $65,000 College Loan Repayment, or $70,000 from the Army College Fund. Find out more at GOARMY.COM or

Where: U.S. Army Recruiting Station
When: 9 a.m. - 6 p.m. Monday-Friday
Who: Sgt. 1st Class Powers, 704-563-0560