4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2005

Trustees, from page 1

The committee also makes nominations according to a commitment to diversity.

“They consider the opinions of the current board and the faculty before discussing each prospective trustee amongst themselves,” Davis said.

Recommendations come from both the board and current faculty about new nominees, but the committee also draws from former board
members.

This year the Board of Trustees needed to fill three presbytery positions and elected two Presbyterians from within the state
of North Carolina and one at-large Presbyterian.

The positions opened up last April after John Belk ’43 and Stephen Smith ’66 resigned in response to a February
vote by the trustees to allow up to 20 percent of board positions to be filled by people who are
not active members of a Christian church.

Rikard, Chidsey, and Wilson have not previously served on the Board.

Rikard, a lawyer, previously chaired the Charlotte-Mecklenburg School Board from 1994-1995. He also serves as a trustee of the Union
Theological Seminary.

Chidsey, husband of a Davidson alumna, is the president of Burger King and lives in Miami. Wilson, a Wellesley graduate,
represents a presbytery that includes Lenoir and Morganton, NC. She is the widow of T. Henry Wilson ’51.

Housing, from page 1

tages in living close to campus.

“To begin with, I do not have to spend time commuting,” Fox said. “I have always lived near the campuses
I have taught at and enjoy the ability to walk or make just a short drive to work. Being able
to run home if I need to during the day makes it a lot easier to participate in the life
of the college when I choose to on nights and weekends. I get to avail myself of the many cultural
events happening at the college.”

Professors will often invite students to come to their homes, something that Lauren Woodall ’08 felt allowed her to make
deeper connections with two of her professors.

“It amazes my friends at other colleges that professors here invite students to their homes. Professors at Davidson really want
to solidify a personal relationship with their students,” Woodall said.

The rise in housing costs has caught the attention of Davidson College officials who are concerned about the impact that
increased housing prices might have on new faculty members’ ability to live near the college.

“We are very concerned [about the increasing costs] and have extended the radius of land-lease options to two miles from
campus instead of one,” Director of Human Resources Carl Sorensen said.

The land-lease program is one of the college’s two housing assistance options for Davidson College faculty and staff.

It allows employees of Davidson College to lease rather than purchase the land on which they build their home.

When the homeowner decides to sell, the college has first right of refusal, meaning that it can opt to buy
or rent the property before it goes on the market.

At this time, the college may repurchase the house and offer it to another college faculty or staff member.

“By taking the cost of the improved land out of the sale price of the home, the buyer has substantially
reduced the cost of the home, the down payment and the monthly payments for the home,” Associate Director of Business
and Property Management Irvin Brawley said.

61 properties within a two-mile radius of the campus are currently available through this program.

“The college has been buying houses from faculty when they retire and converting them to land-lease property for younger faculty,”
Professor of Economics Dave Martin said.

Martin and his wife own a home on land that was formerly college-leased. They purchased the land after the college
determined it was no longer profitable as part of the lot lease program.

College-owned rental houses offer new faculty and staff members another more affordable housing option. The college currently owns 41 houses
with a total of 53 rental units.

The college computes the rental rate based on the minimum value set by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), which will
not create imputed interest. Such housing is available to Davidson employees for a maximum of seven years.

In addition to these two options, the college is also exploring other faculty housing possibilities.

“We are currently considering building affordable housing just beyond Ridge Road,” President Bobby Vagt said.

The college has extensively discussed the Ridge Road development but has not yet approached the Town of Davidson for approval.
