THE DAVIDSONIAN

A LOOK AT THE NATIONAL MEDIA

Criticize for the right reasons

If you get all your political commentary from Sean Hannity and Bill O’Reilly, chances are you view the mainstream media rather like Woody Allen’s protagonists view themselves—rife with neuroses. It is an article of faith on the right that our media, self-consciously cosmopolitan, perplexed by “The Passion of the Christ” phenomenon, and elitist to the core, is simply out of touch with what drives most Americans. But does the evidence support the liberal media theory?

In 2003, the Journal of Communication published a peer-reviewed meta-analysis of 59 previous studies examining the question. The study concluded, “On the whole, no significant biases were found for the newspaper industry. Biases in newsmagazines were virtually zero as well ... studies of television network news showed small, measurable, but probably insubstantial biases.” (Information on this study is available at http://joc.oupjournals.org/cgi/content/abstract/50/4/133.)

If the media were biased, surely that bias would manifest itself in the Bush administration’s most important policy question, the Iraq War. But when the media watchdog group Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting (FAIR), which has an extensive archive devoted to the obsequiousness of the Iraq War coverage, looked at the 393 on-camera sources appearing on “ABC World News Tonight,” “CBS Evening News,” “NBC Nightly News,” and PBS’s “NewsHour with Jim Lehrer,” the results were startling. The study focused on the week prior to and the week after Colin Powell made his February 5, 2003 presentation before the United Nations. This time period was arguably the most pivotal in the prelude to war.

What should have been a time for vigorous debate was instead the era of the echo chamber. Of the guests on these programs, more than two-thirds (267 out of 393) were Americans. Of these, 75 percent were current or former government or military officials. This would not be so objectionable as long as disagreements were still expressed. But only one U.S. official—Senator Ted Kennedy—articulated doubts about the war. Among both U.S. and foreign guests, 76 percent (297 out of 393) were current or retired officials, seriously diminishing the chances of genuinely independent viewpoints. Of all official sources, 75 percent (222 of 297) were associated with a government that supported the war. Incredibly, only two percent (four out of 222) were opponents of the war.

Let us content ourselves with disparaging the media not for being left-wing, but rather for simply being bad. The burden of proof is borne by subscribers to the liberal media theory. When questioned about their confidence that the media is liberal, conservatives usually respond, “How can you think the media is not liberal?” But those who make positive claims—i.e., those who believe something exists or an entity possesses a certain trait—generally must be the ones doing the proving.

Studies do consistently indicate that journalists are more liberal than the population at large. And, indeed, vivid cases exist when individuals or their employers have done shoddy jobs that merit charges of bias, as Dan Rather’s sloppiness did. But until clear quantitative data emerges to buttress the claim that journalists let their own politics seep into their work or that Rather’s defects have metastasized, let us content ourselves with disparaging the media not for being left-wing, but rather for simply being bad. No other project should bind liberals and conservatives together so strongly.

Ashish George is a sophomore from Greensboro, NC. His columns appear in our pages frequently. He can be contacted at asgeorge@davidson.edu. We also welcome your comments on this column at davidsonian@davidson.edu.

Center for The People & The Press

PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2005

FOX NEWS

CBS memo scandal shows liberal bias

Having given a cursory reading to the 200-some page report on the purported “Memogate” scandal with CBS, Dan Rather, and “60 Minutes,” I have to say that things look grim for those who purport that there is no liberal bias in the media. At least as far as CBS goes. I will point once again to the somewhat circumstantial but nevertheless consistent evidence for the lack of balanced coverage of ABC, CNN, and various newspapers. In fact, a May 2004 Pew Research poll of 247 national-level journalists shows a 34 to seven percent ratio of self-described liberals to conservatives. The national ratio is around 23 percent liberal to 33 percent conservative (preceding data from http://www.mediaresearch.org).

If the percentages above and the questionable content of the Independent Report Panel below are not indication enough of some manner of bias, let us consider two responses to the so-called “Memogate.” First, Dan Rather’s own response to the initial questioning of the validity of the reports on President Bush’s Texas Air National Guard service: “People, including many who are partisan political operatives, concentrated not on the key questions of the overall story, but on the documents that were part of the support of the story” (mediaresearch.org). Or, in short, Rather suggests that people should not consider whether or not these documents are false, but rather what these potentially bogus reports say. The average chimp would know enough to scratch his head at this point.

The second response, and my personal favorite, comes from ABC’s second-in-command, analyst George Stephanopoulos. He suggested that the forged documents might be linked to Republican officials as part of a setup to discredit CBS or the Kerry campaign. “Saturday Night Live” has a lot of fun with the suggestion that Bush is incapable of admitting he is wrong. I wonder if ABC still supports Stephanopoulos’ statement.

Regarding “Memogate” itself, I found a few interesting sections...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of the report on CBSNews.com. “60 Minutes” producer Mary Mapes seems incapable of recalling a conversation without having serious points of disagreement with the other party over key aspects of it. Regarding her contact with Kerry campaign official Chad Clanton, Mapes holds that she spoke to him once, while Clanton told the Panel that he had several conversations with Mapes. Mapes' later contact with senior Kerry advisor Joe Lockhart is riddled with discrepancies. Each claims that the other initiated contact first. Mapes has a vague recollection that over the course of a two-minute conversation, she may have mentioned Lt. Col. Bill Burkett, a major source in the story to be run about Bush’s TexANG service record, to Lockhart. Lockhart recalls that in a five-minute discussion, Mapes pushed him to contact Burkett and discuss a retaliation to the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth attacks on Kerry. Lockhart further asserted, “if the story [on Bush’s TexANG service] held up, his involvement would merely cast doubt on it, and if the story did not hold up, he did not want to be associated with it.” Both were very valid concerns, and both, unfortunately for him, came true. Having also informed Clanton of Burkett’s desire to discuss strategy with the Kerry campaign—and given him Burkett’s phone number—Mapes claims that “she did not think that Clanton would call Lieutenant Colonel Burkett” (CBSNews.com). This seems either naive in the extreme or a weak attempt to make the story sound less like a senior CBS official looking to provide specific aid to a single candidate’s campaign. Incidentally, the findings of the Independent Report Panel were downplayed in the media less than 24 hours after their release. As always, the truth is in the eye of the beholder. Personally, I say, “Behold! It walks like a duck, it talks like a duck, and it looks like a duck.”

Nathan Bradshaw is a freshman from Swannanoa, NC. His “Face the Nathan” column appears frequently in our pages. He can be contacted at nabradshaw@davidson.edu. We also welcome your comments on this column at davidsonian@davidson.edu.

---

Separation of press and state attacked

By JC Boyle
Staff Columnist

When commentator Armstrong Williams first confessed wrongdoing by accepting $240,000 in taxpayer money to promote the No Child Left Behind Act, he said there was “a gray area.” (Interestingly, that may have been the first time a Bush supporter admitted the existence of a color between black and white.) Williams went on to acknowledge that there was a “thin line,” and that he had “probably crossed it.” “Probably,” of course, doesn’t begin to cover it. When part of his defense is that he was never paid to change his views, only to repeatedly emphasize them, he’s trying to save himself by saying he didn’t ever have to be bribed. But he let it happen anyway. He took almost a quarter of a million dollars of taxpayer money to do something he was already doing.

Recent years have not been kind to the media. Between the Jayson Blair fiasco, the Jack Kelley follow-up, the CBS News debacle, and the decline of objective journalism in general, journalists have had and will have many opportunities to question aloud what their problem is. So it is only natural that this latest scandal has offered the media another excuse to psychoanalyze themselves. Unfortunately, the navel-gazing has disguised the big picture: that somebody in the government contacted a member of the media and bribed him or her to deliver propaganda for a partisan policy. There are more villains in this case, and we have yet to find out who they are or how high they go. The investigative response to Williams’s admission of guilt has not been to find those who bribed him but instead has focused on those like him, and within days more turned up, albeit with different circumstances. The news, which became the conservative counterattack to any anti-Bush judgment arising from the Williams bribery, was that the Howard Dean campaign paid bloggers for word-of-mouth buzz during the primary season. It is easy to admit that this too is a bad thing, and a bad thing for independent journalism. Dean’s organization wrote the check with its own money, not the government’s, and at least one of the two bloggers acknowledged publicly during the campaign that he was a paid consultant.

Now, two weeks after Armstrong Williams confessed his sins, his story is dying down, with the real culprits having yet to be found and barely sought—certainly not with the sound and fury following Williams. His transgression was a major one, but the government’s was far greater. A quarter of a million dollars went to promote a program most agree is underfunded by billions. Whoever drafted Williams’s contract with the Education Department breached the wall between the fourth estate and the government and reinforced the fact that this administration cares more about appearances than reality. “To seem, rather than to be,” is the motto of the times, and winning support for a policy is more important than a winning policy. T.S. Eliot said that “between the idea and the reality falls the shadow,” and starting tomorrow, the shadow begins another four years of illusion and obfuscation.

JC Boyle is a freshman classics major from Atlanta, Ga. His columns appear frequently in our pages. He can be contacted at jcboyle@davidson.edu. We also welcome your comments on this column at davidsonian@davidson.edu.