THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Lacrosse stomps Pfeiffer for first victory

Seven Davidson players score in 13-2 win, including Frank ’05 with five goals

By KATHERINE SWAIN
Staff Writer

Last Sunday afternoon on the Belk Turf Field, lacrosse downed Pfeiffer 13-2 in its season opener. It was the first
match-up between the Wildcats and Falcons, and Davidson dominated throughout en route to the win.

The ’Cats controlled play from the start, as Lindsay Frank ’05 notched the first goal just minutes into the game.
Less than 60 seconds later, Eloise Grose ’06, the team leader in points last season, notched an unassisted goal. Frank
then snatched the ensuing draw and took it all the way to give Davidson a quick 3-0 lead that would
never be seriously challenged.

Pfeiffer fought back with one goal to pull within two at 3-1, but that was the last Falcon goal of
the half. Meanwhile, Davidson notched six goals by five different players to take a 9-1 lead at the break. In
the first period, Emily Diefendorf ’08 and Sarah Walter ’08 also scored their first collegiate goals. Frank ’05 paced the
Davidson offense.

The second half was more of the same, as Frank notched her fifth goal at the beginning of the second
half, while Grose followed suit less than a minute later off a pass from Kelly Finnegan ’08. Alana Vaughn ’07
and Emily Palmer ’08 then finished off the scoring for the Wildcats. Overall, seven Davidson players scored on the afternoon,
showing off the depth that is sure to help the team as the season continues.

Frank was also five for five on shot attempts, showing why she was one of 12 players to be named
to the Atlantic Lacrosse Conference preseason team. Captain Millie McKeachie ’05 said of the ’Cats’ performance on Sunday, “Every individual
brought her best for our first game of the season, and we were disciplined as a team. It was a
good opening win for us, because it will give us confidence going into our first conference game this weekend against
[John] Hopkins. Our success yesterday depended on the unification of the entire team, and that unification will bring us success
in the rest of our games this spring.”

The ’Cats travel to Maryland, Washington, D.C., and Virginia over spring break to play conference rivals John Hopkins, Howard, and
St. Bonaventure. They then return to Davidson for their second home game against ALC member Penn State on March 7.

Men’s tennis cruises to 7-0 victory over cross-town rival

By PIERCE TRUMBO
Staff Writer

The wrestling team had its last conference match on Saturday, as the Wildcats faced off against The Citadel in Belk
Arena. The Bulldogs proved to be too much for the Wildcats to handle as they won eight of 10 weight
categories en route to a 37-6 win. Matt Pendle ’08 at 165 and Patrick Coman ’06 at 125 registered the
only two victories of the day for the Wildcats. Coman and Pendle have been the most prolific wrestlers of the
season, with 23 wins each overall. Pendle has also already tied the school record for pins in a season, registering
his Davidson-best 13th pin against VMI.

The men’s and women’s tennis teams dealt with very different levels of competition this past week in in-state competition. On
Feb. 16, the men took on Queens College in a resounding 7-0 victory, while the women fell to N.C. State
6-1 the following day.

Against Queens, the men’s team lost only one set the entire day in the sweep. Top seed Donald Miles ’05
won his match 6-0, 1-6, 6-4, while number two Flaviu Simihaian ’08 won 6-3, 6-2. The other four singles players,
John Bolton ’07, Daniel Bermeo ’06, Jay Chitty ’07, and Joe Cheaney ’06, all won their matches in straight sets.
The three doubles teams also recorded victories to give Davidson a perfect 7-0 mark on the day. The top-seeded pair
of Cheaney and Miles won its match easily, 8-1, and the duo of Bermeo and Simihaian cruised to an 8-2
win. The third-seeded pair of Matt Hartman ’08 and Jared McKiernan ’07 had a bit more trouble, but they eventually
pulled out a 9-7 victory.

Miles said the competition against Queens was “basically a warm-up. The match was just a confidence booster going into our
first big match of the season against Georgia Southern next Sunday.”

The women’s team, meanwhile, had to compete against No. 70 N.C. State, and the Wildcats were unable to hang close
with the Wolfpack in the 6-1 loss. The sole victory of the day belonged to Kelsey Linville ’08, who beat
her opponent 6-3, 6-2. Kelly Fillnow ’05 said of Linville, “[She] had a great showing, dominating her opponent in straight
sets.” Fillnow, who played at the number one spot, had perhaps the toughest match.Match of the day against nationally ranked
Barbara Orlay, as she lost 6-1, 6-1. Both the four and five players, Kate Levitt '07 and Kim Whelan '08,
took their opponents to the full three sets, and Whelan almost pulled it out in her 6-4, 5-7, 6-4 loss.
The three doubles teams also lost, but the number two doubles pair of Fillnow and Lindsay Powell '06 had a
close 8-5 contest. “The match should have been closer,” said Fillnow, “but we could not win the big points... [Still],
we gained a lot of experience from the match, as we know where we need to be to compete with
the top schools in the country.” Fillnow is optimistic for the coming season, as she said, “We are coming off
a successful 2004 campaign, finishing with a school-best 8-2 SoCon record. [We] lost only one senior, [and we are] gaining
three freshmen who will impact the starting line-up.” She also spoke of the team’s objectives, saying, “We have to continue
to put in the hard work daily in order to reach our goal of making NCAA’s.”

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2005

Golf shakes off winter rust with trip to Orlando, finishes 15th

By Jerr HAMILTON
Staff Writer

The Wildcat golf team began the 2005 season with a trip to Orlando for the UCF/Rio Pinar Intercollegiate, hosted by
Central Florida. With a 15th-place finish in a field of 18, the ’Cats did not get off to the start
they were looking for in 2005 but remain optimistic about their chances for the remainder of the season. The host
team from Central Florida won the event with a three-round total of 862. Davidson’s scores, meanwhile, improved each round, as
the ’Cats finished the event at 909 (304-303-302).

Leading the way for Davidson individually was Tim Dillon ’06, whose three-round total of 221 (75-71-75) was good enough for
a 26th-place finish overall. Also competing for the Wildcats were Alex Knoll ’07 (224: 73-79-72), Peyton Gallagher ’05 (227: 75-75-77),
Steve Mayo ’07 (237: 81-78-78), and Christian Davis ’06 (247: 82-86-79). Dillon offered his take on the ’Cats’ finish, saying,
“We definitely didn’t play how we would’ve liked to, but we’re still shaking off some of the winter rust. I
feel confident that we’ll step it up before our next tournament at Birkdale.”

The Rio Pinar Golf Club served to be a challenging course for the ’Cats, but one that was a fair
test in showing where they need to improve. “It’s not where you start, but where you finish,” said Gallagher. “Rio
Pinar served as a barometer for where we each need to focus our practice in order to work towards our
ultimate goal of a SoCon championship.”

With a heavy dose of talent on the roster, the ’Cats do have their eye on the Southern Conference Championship
in April, which will be played at their home course in Davidson, the River Run Club. Next up for Davidson
is the Birkdale Intercollegiate, which is also a home event for the team. That tournament begins after a brief break
from action on March 12.

From Slams, page 16

The fourth and later adding a single. Musashe was the only Wildcat to record two hits in the contest. Georgetown
threatened to come back in the seventh when it loaded the bases with no one out, but reliever Matt Hanson
’05 thwarted the rally, allowing just one run and forcing an inning-ending 6-4-3 double play. “We played pretty well defensively,”
Cooke said. “[and] we executed well offensively.” Rob Wilson ’07 got the win for Davidson, as he allowed just three
runs on seven hits over six innings. Wilson struck out a career-high seven batters and did not walk a single
Hoya. Senior Justin Hartanov ’05 buried Georgetown in the ninth, striking out two of the three batters he faced to
record the save.

Poor weather almost canceled Monday’s game, but the skies cleared in time for the two teams to finish up the
series. The ’Cats gained the early lead for the third straight game, as Shore again connected on a first-pitch home
run, and Davidson added to that lead in the second on home runs by Taylor Shoop ’06 and Sam Navarro
’05. Davidson starter Andy Carter ’06 could not hang onto the lead, however, allowing five runs and eight hits over
five and two-thirds innings. He left the game trailing 5-3, but the home side came right back in the bottom
half of the sixth. After Benefield got on base to start the inning, back-to-back doubles by Shoop and Crissey tied
the game at 5-5. The Hoyas blew the game open in the eighth, however, as they scored 10 runs on
eight hits to essentially put the game away.
