12 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2005

Week in Review

TRUMBO’S PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat Game of the Week
Men’s Basketball
Davidson vs. Catholic U.
Friday 7 p.m.

Most likely by the time you read this paper, the Davidson-Missouri game will be close to starting. If it’s not
too late, run over to Baker. If you did go to the game, plan to see the ’Cats again vs.
Catholic on Saturday at 7:00. After all, nothing says study break like watching the men’s basketball team squash a D-3.

Outside the Den

Virginia on a heave by Sean Dockery, they'll look to blow past Providence to

Stewart a champ again, forgets ’02

In 2004, Alex Rodriguez’s salary was $26 million and Shaquille O’Neal netted over $27 million with the Heat. Tony Stewart
drove home only about $9 million. This year, following the conclusion of the 2005 season, Stewart broke a money-making record
for NASCAR and picked up over $13 big ones after winning the NEXTEL Cup this fall.

While I find it difficult to imagine what one person and his family could want with enough money to buy
about 1500 used Hyundai Elantras, I nevertheless wonder how NASCAR, the fastest-growing sport, could have just passed the $13 million
mark for its highest-paid driver. The only sport on par with it in terms of money is professional football, whose
players rarely surpass the annual salary of $9 million. But Drew Bledsoe, who made the aforementioned amount, isn’t buying million-dollar
equipment like Stewart. When I see how many expensive tires are destroyed in a race and how often crashes completely
demolish a car, it hits me that making so much dough isn’t nearly as profitable as people think.

Tony, however, has made nearly $50 million in his career, and he’s not about to complain. Despite finishing 15th in
the last race at Homestead-Miami, Stewart was able to be consistent enough to make the grade and end, like everyone
knew he would, in first place. The still-new Chase for the Cup format provided another close finish, validating itself to
those who would still critique it compared to the old system of overall points. Stewart finished just 35 points over
Greg Biffle, who won the Homestead race and moved up to second in the rankings. Biffle had a fantastic race
in the No.16 car, vying with Mark Martin in the last lap to cement the victory.

Jimmie Johnson had been runner-up for the last two seasons, and he entered the final race once again in second.
Unfortunately, in lap 126, a leak in his right rear tire burst and sent him into a wall. Hoping for
a caution, he let himself drift to the back of the pack before his tire blew. He was unhurt but
extremely discouraged by the wreck. Despite this difficulty, he looks forward to next year. “I lived my whole life for
this,” Johnson said. “End up blowing a tire and being out, that’s part of it. But I'll be back next
year.”

Besides Johnson, who would have had to finish about 20 places above Stewart to win the championship, only Carl Edwards
and Biffle were in the position to beat the eventual NEXTEL Cup winner. Stewart, however, was ready for them and
had spent his whole season preparing for that moment. Initially, he went on a streak of five victories in seven
races then sped to first place at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, normally his worst track, in August. The win was
made even more thrilling for Stewart, an Indiana native. “To win at home in the Brickyard was a race of
a lifetime,” he said.

That win caused Stewart to soar to first place in points, and for 13 of the last 14 weeks, he
retained the lead. It was only in the second race of the final 10, the Chase for the Cup, that
he dropped all the way down to fifth, but the points were quickly made up the next week in Talladega.
After that, he kept on accumulating top-10 finishes until Homestead-Miami. There, ninth place or better would clinch. He scored 15th
but was nevertheless able to take a victory lap.

Many fans believe Stewart didn’t deserve to win this year, mostly based on his volatile personality which exploded many times
during his last championship run in 2002. His unpredictable temper came to a head that season when he punched a
photographer. “I put the team through a lot of hell ever since I’ve been with them but they never gave
up on me. Zippy [his crew chief] didn’t want to win it the way we did in 2002. It was
nice to do it and do it right,” said Stewart.

Kurt Busch, another driver with a sometimes bad attitude, spent the last two races out of his car after an
altercation with police. After being pulled over in Phoenix for going 60 miles per hour in a 45 zone, swerving
to avoid anotherVehicle, and running a stop sign, he argued with the authorities, repeatedly asking them if they knew who
he was. “You’re only doing this because you’re a Jeff Gordon fan,” said Busch to the officer, who replied that
he did not actually follow NASCAR. At first, Busch was believed to be drunk, but a sobriety test revealed that
he was just stupid. He got away with a misdemeanor citation for reckless driving and is now leaving Roush Racing.
Said Jack Roush, owner of, among a few others, the No. 97 car, “He’s an extraordinary talent, but he’s really
had trouble dealing with the realities of normal social behavior.” The two have a rocky relationship that now seems to
be terminated, as Busch will continue his racing career for Penske Auto. He is taking over Rusty Wallace’s position at
the organization following Wallace’s recent retirement from the sport. The 1984 Rookie of the Year has finally decided to call
it quits after finishing eighth in points on the season. Wallace, who was the ’89 Cup champion, wants to help
his son Stephen advance in his racing career and perhaps make a new career in announcing. As prize money skyrockets
and veteran drivers retire, it’s exciting to imagine what will happen next season. Brian France, chairman of NASCAR, has suggested
a few changes to the Chase format, while multi-car teams are being given a ceiling on how many automobiles they
are allowed to own. Dale Earnhardt, Jr. was voted 2006’s most popular driver yet again, but will he be able
to make the Chase this year? Will Jeff Gordon? Will Tony Stewart make use of the $17,000 worth of exercise
equipment he recently purchased to get in shape for the upcoming season? We'll have to wait until February to see.

Clavette, Coman lead at Penn State

KEVIN BIRNEY AND NATHAN BRADSHAW
Staff Writer and Senior Staff Writer

Before Thanksgiving Break, fall sports had cooled down, but the Wildcats’ winter schedule was just getting warmed up. On November
19, the men’s wrestling team would not be denied at the Navy Classic. Then this past Sunday, at the Penn
State Open Tournament, the ’Cats came on strong individually. Of the two meets, the team performed best at the Navy
Classic, where five wrestlers placed. Jim Avola ’07 led the way, finishing second in the 133-lb. weight class. Avola defeated
two Midshipmen wrestlers before falling in the finals during a close match lasting five minutes and 23 seconds. Trebor Clavette
’08 turned in another impressive effort, building on momentum from a strong showing a week earlier to take fifth place
at 165 lbs. during the Navy Invite. Chris Panfili ’09 (125 lbs.), co-captain Patrick Coman ’06 (133), and Henry Blue
’06 (141) all finished sixth in their respective weight classes. Overall, the competition was a very good showing for the
Wildcats, as they tied with Campbell for a sixth-place finish as a team.

Two weeks later, the ’Cats traveled to State College, PA, for the Penn State Open. Clavette had another strong performance
and ended up placing fourth at 165 lbs. His record for the year now stands at 12-6. Coman also did
well, finishing with a record of 4-2 and just missing out on placing in the 125 lb. class. “As a
team, I think the year is going well,” Avola said. “We are wrestling well, but we still have some areas
that we need to improve on. This is the hardest working team in the three years that I have been
here and we continue to push each other and improve every day.”

An interesting aspect of the team this year has been the transition to a new coach, Bob Patnesky. Patnesky, a
five-time All-American wrestler, took over the coaching position midway through last year’s season and was officially hired as coach in
May. Said Avola, “The whole team loves the new coaching staff. They push and motivate us to be the best
we can and continue to help us with areas that need improvement. They are a great fit to our team
and with them leading us, we should be looking at a successful year.” After Patnesky came to the position, the
’Cats posted an 8-7 record for the 2004-2005 season. The grapplers have not yet competed in a team scoring meet
this season. “We have a long break now, which allows us to work on the areas that need improvement as
we move toward the dual meet season,” said Avola. The first dual meet will be at UNC Greensboro on January
6. Before that, though, ’Cats wrestlers will compete in the Southern Scuffle on December 29-30 in Greensboro. Of the season
as a whole, Avola anticipates great success in fulfilling or possibly even exceeding their goals. With all of last year’s
squad back on the mats, as well as the addition of Marcus Boyd ’07, who missed last year with a
knee injury, opponents may soon find themselves victims of the Wildcats’ high expectations.
