‘Anthony Rapp and Rosario Dawson star in the film version of the hit 1996 Broadway musical that defined a generation. ‘Rent’ entertains but fails to measure up to the play.

By STEVE KALISKI
Senior Staff Writer

Shortly into the film version of “Tango: Maureen,” one of the sillier, less memorable musical numbers from the beloved stage original of “Rent,” director Chris Columbus does something he does all too rarely in his adaptation: he indulges in fantasy. As Mark (Anthony Rapp) and Joanne (Tracie Thoms) wallow in their mutual affection for the blustery Maureen (Idina Menzel), Columbus suddenly shifts from an intimate, two-person scene into a vast, fantastic ballroom setting. We see the red-dressed Maureen tantalizing her hapless admirers by tangoing with dozens of debonair playboys. Mark and Joanne cannot believe their eyes and the hilarious song barrels forth with them weaving their ways through this frustrating dreamscape. Uniquely cinematic, this surprisingly enjoyable number recognizes that, in moving a musical from the stage to the screen, the show must change along with the medium.

Unfortunately, much of the film version of “Rent” does not adhere to this crucial condition. Particularly during the opening hour, this new “Rent” feels as if Columbus attended the Broadway stage premiere, got really excited, whipped out his camera, hopped on stage, and filmed exactly what he saw. As a result, the movie’s visual style does not mesh with its musical power. Passionate songs, which range from sultry (“Light My Candle”) to bombastic (“Rent,” the title track), burst forth from a small, static canvas. If you could put this movie on mute, you’d think you were watching a lost episode of “Felicity.”

Still, as a devoted fan of the stage “Rent,” I must admit that not even the ruthlessly faithful Columbus can spoil the power of Jonathan Larson’s fervently stirring rock opera about AIDS, homosexuality, and Bohemia. With most of the original cast triumphantly returning to their roles, the movie “Rent” eventually overcomes its bland beginnings to become a fitting homage, if not an equal, to the theatrical version.

The ensemble is almost perfect. For anyone who fell in love with “Rent” by blasting the original cast recording in their car stereos day after day, the ring of familiarity to the vocals here makes the performances instantly lovable. Even if some of these stage vets don’t know much about film acting—as Roger, Adam Pascal rarely adopts facial expressions of any sort—their confidence in their voices carries the weight.

Menzel and Jesse L. Martin make particularly profound impressions. Menzel, coming off of a phenomenal run as Elphaba in the Broadway musical “Wicked,” proves that she doesn’t need a packed house to belt her way to success. Like “Tango: Maureen,” “Take Me or Leave Me” leaps from filler material in the play to centerpiece in the movie, and this is largely thanks to Menzel’s devotion to her saucy role. As Tom Collins, “Law and Order” regular Martin blends his “nice guy” persona and his resonant voice so infectiously that I challenge any viewer to endure his wonderful songs with dry eyes. From his solo in “Seasons of Love” to his heart-wrenching reprise of “I’ll Cover You,” Martin makes a case that one scarcely need speak a line of dialogue to deserve an Oscar nomination.

This Pulitzer Prize-winning musical means a lot of things to a lot of people. However, ever since Larson unexpectedly died just prior to the show’s premiere in 1996, “Rent” has survived primarily as a celebration of living in the moment. While Columbus struggles to settle on a stylistic niche in his adaptation, his ensemble manages to preserve this opera’s contagiously joyous mood. Obviously thrilled to return to their breakout roles,The entire cast of “Rent” indeed makes the new movie a cause for celebration.

Kirst Annual ‘Best Dorm Room on Campus’ Competition

The Martha Stewart touch:

By MIKE WELLMAN
Senior Staff Writer

Harry Potter and friends are back in the Hollywood take on J.K. Rowling’s “Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.” In Harry’s fourth year, Hogwarts hosts a Tri-Wizard Tournament in which three schools send a prize student to compete for the title of Tri-Wizard Tournament Champion. After the three contestants are selected, Harry Potter’s name mysteriously appears from the Goblet of Fire to be named the fourth, underage contestant. Harry’s biggest concerns, though, are keeping up with school and friends while trying to survive the dangers posed by the tournament and the growing strength of the Death Eaters.

The cast has grown older, facing more difficult challenges, a darker plotline, and a PG-13 rating for the first time. Harry, Ron, and Hermione’s relations are strained and are thrown into the drama of their first big dance. With a little more freedom to act, the cast does admirably with Daniel Radcliffe showing more emotion than he had in the other films combined, demonstrating fear, grief, and mettle in a way that allows us to view him as having grown into an adult sense of responsibilities.

HP loses candy coating, gains depth

Gaze into the piercing eye of Daniel Radcliffe. The adult actors also do well, as Michael Gambon fits more naturally into the role of Dumbledore and the other professors fill their characters well, although we don’t see as much of them this time around as we have in the past. New additions are Rita Skeeter, Voldemort, and Mad-Eye Moody, though Ralph Fiennes stands out as a squinty, reptile-like Voldemort. Rita Skeeter’s role in the film is minimal, as she doesn’t contribute much to the storyline and Harry’s difficulties with her don’t feel significant enough to warrant mention.

“Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire” is significantly more adult than any of the other films. Harry faces terrifying dragons, murderous merpeople, and Voldemort himself, but even the breaks between those events seem to terrify, building tension and hurtling the viewer towards the final standoff that even after resolution doesn’t leave things with the warm, fuzzy feeling that past films have done. Rita Skeeter and Moaning Myrtle’s interactions with Harry were a bit on the suggestive side, though the sections on the teen romance that goes on before the ball are humorous, appealing, and not overdone.

One problem with the film, however, was that none of the female characters seemed to be strong individuals, as Hermione and Fleur Delacour, as the two main female figures, are constantly breaking down throughout the movie. Overall, viewers will enjoy “Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire,” as while it is a darker, more adult Harry Potter, it still manages to encompass the charm and wonder of J.K. Rowling’s book. Although visually stunning, the film falters a bit, feeling a bit rushed and choppy, but the cast does well and the storyline is adapted almost as well as can be hoped from a 750-page volume.

Diehard fans will be pleased by the faithfulness to the book, while casual viewers will enjoy the film, though may get lost at times. All in all, the film succeeds in drawing viewers into the world of Harry Potter while still allowing the characters to grow out of the childish caricatures and actually struggle through their troubles.

FOR RENT!
- 3Bd/2Ba ranch with a nice yard
- Close walk to campus and town.
- Flexible lease.
- $1350/mo.
- Available Jan. 1st.

Call Front Porch Properties: 704-651-2529, 704-606-4615.