THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2005

Board, continued from page 1

Smith’s resignation from the Board of Trustees stemmed largely from objections to the process by which the bylaw change was made. “I’ve given a lot of my heart and soul to Davidson, and this hurts,” Smith said in reference to his disagreement with the process behind the board’s decision. “I don’t think Davidson is the college that I thought it was.”

Above: John Belk
Below: Steve Smith

When asked about future plans for giving, Smith said that he would honor his outstanding pledges to the college. “I think that for anyone who feels strongly enough about something to resign, it stands to reason that it will affect his level of giving,” he said. “I don’t intend to give any more money to the school in the foreseeable future.”

Bradberry said that last week’s Charlotte Observer article publicizing Belk and Smith’s resignation has caused supporters of the change, who were previously quiet, to contact the College. “Even though you never want to see anything that is in any way negative about the College in the Observer, it has also brought out some of the people who are the supporters,” Bradberry said. “We’ve had people who have said that they want to give because of this, and people who have said ‘I want to double or quadruple my gift.’”

Shannon McFayden ’82 reduced her giving when she learned of the Christian requirement several years ago. “With the recent change, I have increased my giving and feel strongly that I want to stay in this conversation.” Although McFayden views the recent bylaw change as progress, she said she would ultimately like to see the entire board, not just the 20 percent, to be open to non-Christians. McFayden’s husband, also a Davidson graduate, has withdrawn support from the school because he does not think the change has gone far enough. “I have said, ‘Hooray for progress’ and he has said, ‘Not enough,’” McFayden said.

Director of Alumni Relations Matt Merrell characterizes the reaction from alumni toward the resignation of Belk and Smith as “fairly minimal.” “There are some alumni who are a little embarrassed by the publicity and that two strong supporters of the college would take such a public stand in opposition to a policy that they support,” he said. “And there are others who are motivated by their [Belk and Smith’s] opposition to voice their own opposition to the change.”

Merrell said that while the college will miss having Belk and Smith on the Board of Trustees, the leaders who remain on the board are “very capable of leading the institution” and bring “knowledge and wisdom from their considerable success in the corporate and non-profit world” to their tasks on the board.

Although John Belk’s main contribution is the $28 million Belk Scholarship endowment, he has also funded the Belk Arena in the Baker Sports Complex and contributed to other causes. The Belk family has a long and generous history of giving and leadership at Davidson College. Many of the buildings bearing the Belk name, including Belk Dormitory and the Visual Arts Center, have not been financed by John Belk but by other members of the Belk family. John Belk’s niece, Katie Belk Morris, is also currently a member of the Board of Trustees.

Smith’s lifetime giving total is $2.6 million. His gifts to the school include the Stephen B. Smith field in Richardson Stadium, an endowment to the football program, and a scholarship.

Union, continued from page 2

This year, the Union Board has cosponsored an open-mike night with the Dos Generaciones Alliance and a stand-up comedy act with the Asian Cultural and Awareness Association. “The benefit of cosponsoring is that we’re a much larger student organization than most, and we’re able to help out smaller organizations because we’re interested in all student groups,” Cox said. Gentile added that cosponsoring “eases the stress on our budget.”When we don’t have to sponsor something every night.” Next year, the Union Board hopes to continue and expand on its most popular events and brainstorm new ideas for weekend entertainment. They recently formed a new committee called the Lake Committee, which will coordinate April at the Lake next spring and plan other events to encourage students to utilize the lake campus. The committee will be headed by Walker Saik ’06 and Wilson McCrory ’07, the SGA members who planned this year’s April at the Lake.

“Wilson and I had always thought April at the Lake fit more under the Union Board umbrella,” Saik said. “It’s not that SGA hasn’t done a good job with it, and we still plan to include them in the sponsorship, but the Union Board simply knows how to run social events. That’s their job, and they’re more used to changing committee heads from year to year which will help make April at the Lake an annual event and not just a two or three-year show.”

The Union Board also wants to increase the frequency of student performances on campus. Russell Howard ’06, a member of the Generals and the recent Battle of the Bands-winning group The Blue Barnstormers, is heading the Student Performers Committee. “For starters, there will be an open mic type event hopefully once a month in the 900 room,” Howard said. “Right now there are virtually no opportunities for student performance, and it’s our goal to make those available. Also, we hope to have a performance every Thursday night in the 900 room dedicated to one performer or band - for those that have enough material to play a whole set.”

Gentile expects next year to be full of exciting opportunities for students. “We want to have fun from the very beginning,” Gentile said. “We want to start off with a bang and end with a bang.”

Students who are interested in serving on the Union Board can sign up for different committees during next fall’s activities fair or contact any of the chairs to ask to be placed on the email list. Union Board members wait to greet students at the Class of ’06’s Orientation.

Waldron, continued from page 1

“Several fundraisers are being scheduled around Memorial Day,” said Arbuckle. “Our goal is not so much a numerical figure as that we want Charles to come home from Iraq and find his house stacked to the ceiling with letters from people that are supporting the troops and that have given to the fund,” Arbuckle said.

Arbuckle described Waldron as “a fairly soft-spoken guy who has a laser wit.” Arbuckle and Waldron were in SAE, spent holidays together, and still communicate regularly. Arbuckle said, “Charles’s level of sacrifice far eclipsed anything that I could ever do: from ROTC, to signing up for Korea, to serving in Iraq—he was someone who had given back to his country.”

President Bobby Vagt served as Waldron’s advisor. Vagt said Waldron’s service in Iraq is “a clear demonstration of a person setting his mind to something and then making it happen.” Waldron served time in South Korea before being transferred to Iraq. He is in the 44th Engineer Battalion, 2nd BCT, and 2nd Infantry Division.

The Fallen Heroes Fund provides “unrestricted grants to the families of military personnel who have given their lives in the current operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.” Eleven thousand dollars is given to each spouse and $5,000 is given to each dependent child as a result of a death through military service. The Fallen Heroes Fund aims to assist families with the financial burden of losing a family member. The monetary gift also serves as a “thank you” to acknowledge the family’s sacrifice for the good of the nation.

Tess Leppert ’05 is also involved with raising money for the Fallen Heroes Fund. Leppert’s 35-year-old brother, Thomas, has been to Iraq twice with the Special Forces Recon. “My brother’s biggest concern while in Iraq was the roadside bombs,” Leppert said. “He was happy that his Hummers were armored because many were not.” Safely home from his service in Iraq, Thomas is married and has two children. “My brother definitely lost friends while he was there,” Leppert said. “The Fallen Heroes Fund is a way to acknowledge the families and their hardships in losing a loved one in battle.”