THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2005. 7

Union Board breathes life into Thursdays at the 900 Room

By MIKE WELLMAN
Staff Writer

Doing homework will no longer be the only viable choice for the Davidson student on Thursday nights this year.

Scrapping the previous trivia games that were held in the 900 Room in past years, the Union Board has decided instead to use the 10 p.m. slot there as a forum for student performers.

Billed as Live Thursdays, the program hopes to bring back a fun atmosphere where students can hang out after studies, or even as a break between.

The program kicked off two weeks ago with a performance by the cast of the Oops! Improv Troupe, and this past week was graced by the man in charge of Live Thursdays, Russell Howard ’06.

Howard hopes the program will allow for more exposure of student artists who had previously been without a forum for their work, while at the same time providing a fun and entertaining way for students to spend their Thursday nights.

Future acts to grace the 900 Room for Live Thursdays include the jazz quintet Off Main this coming Thursday as well as The Delilahs.

To the question of whether the atmosphere would be similar to that of a coffee house, Howard said he expected each different performance to shape the atmosphere of the 900 Room.

When asked about what kind of acts he expected to see in the future, Howard said he hoped anyone with a wish to be heard would take advantage of the new program.

Davidson alumni like Kate Minogue ’05 as well as performers of slam poetry may even find their way into the Live Thursdays schedule in the future.

Those interested in performing should speak to Howard to be approved for an open date.

For listeners, stop by the 900 Room every Thursday at 10 p.m. if you feel like your biology textbook isn’t registering enough of a pulse.

Kayaking, from page 6

Sailing? Always popular, but subject to finicky wind conditions and the availability of dock shoes at your local sporting goods store.

Why not venture into the hidden underbelly of the Union and sign up for the Davidson Outdoors whitewater kayaking trip, scheduled for this coming weekend, September 23-25?

By its very nature, kayaking is an enlightened sport.

Think about it: if you are boating in a canoe and you suddenly find yourself drinking water rather than breathing air, you bail immediately.

Your boat starts to float downstream, your gear sails off in 15 different directions, and you begin the laborious process of setting everything aright.

In a similar situation in a kayak, you take a moment to marvel at this lovely aquatic environment from your inverted position, bend your body into the shape of a “C” and snap yourself back upright. Crisis averted, continue merrily downstream.

True, there is a certain level of practice required to learn the art of the kayak “roll,” but, once mastered, a whole new world of bumper stickers will become yours: “Kayakers roll over and do it again,” “Surf New Hampshire,” “Paddle solo, sleep tandem” etc.

Not only will your car look way cooler than the guy who plasters his with four years of parking stickers, but you will have fallen in love with an amazing new sport.

But suppose that next weekend is already booked. Will you have to wait a whole year before such a priceless opportunity will again come your way?

We at DO, anticipating your anxiety and pain, are already a step ahead.

Every Thursday night Davidson Outdoors offers kayak rolling lessons in the Baker pool from 7:30-9 p.m.

For no extra charge, the campus paddling contingent will show you the basics, assist you in your own fledgling attempts, and more often than not offer amusement in the form of “stupid boater tricks:” flips, races, and headstands.

So take a break from your studies, for a weekend or just an evening, and add a superfluous skill to your resume.

Because you never know when you will find yourself upside down in a kayak moving swiftly toward class V whitewater.

Photo by Dorsett Clark

Howard ’06 performs as part of the Union Board’s Live Thursday series.

Photo courtesy of California Whitewater

We recommend wearing a helmet.

15% OFF WITH DAVIDSON CATCARD OR THIS COUPON!

OR, DELIVERY AVAILABLE $10 Minimum

18059-8 W. Catawba Ave. Cornelius, NC www.turn4pizza.com

NEW HOURS: Mon.-Thurs. 11am - 10pm; Fri & Sat 11am - 10:30 pm; Sun 11am - 10pm (704) 655-4444

FRESH HOMEMADE DOUGH & SAUCE HAND TOSSED PIZZAS FRESH SALADS OVER 20 VARIATIONS OF BREADSTICKS

GOURMET FLAME BROILED ALL-BEEF “JUMBO” HOT DOGS SERVED ON GRIDDLE TOASTED ROLLS, GERMAN BRATS, SWEET ITALIAN SAUSAGE, POLISH KIELBASA & OUR OWN PORK BAR-B-QUE, BEAR’S BEST “SN8” PHILLY CHEESESTEAKS & CHICKENSTEAKS

9709-B SAM FURR RD. HUNTERSVILLE, NC 1-77 EXIT 25 RT #73 EASY OFF/EASY ON Hours Daily 11AM-8PM; Closed Sunday Phone Number: (704) 895-2692 www.buzzyandbearsgrill.com