THE DAVIDSONIAN

YANASH, from page 1

homosexuality on campus, and the perpetuation of homosexual stereotypes.

YANASH is also there to help students who are having a rough time coming to terms with their own sexual
identities.

Having such a safe atmosphere enables students to talk about their struggles without the fear of repercussions, and group members
are encouraged to share their own coming out stories.

“Everyone needs support, especially those who may not know where to find it,” said Libby Hubbard ’08, who is not
a member of the group.

“Coming out is so hard because you don’t want to be labeled by your sexual orientation. You wouldn't want people
to change their attitude towards you because of it.”

YANASH is confidential and anonymous, so the meeting place, day, and time are all withheld until a student who wants
to attend decides to contact Health Educator Georgia Ringle for that information.

At the meeting, a student also has the option of going by their real name, or creating a pseudonym.

There are also several specific rules that every member of the group must agree to follow.

The first rule is that whatever happens at a meeting stays at a meeting; this means, in particular, that one
is not allowed to tell others outside of the group who attended the meeting.

The second rule is that one cannot talk to someone who is in the group outside of the meeting unless
they knew one another beforehand.

NEWS

“It seems to me that the confidentiality of the group really holds true, which is very impressive,” said Rob Mark
’08, who is not a member of the group.

The group attracts all different types of GLBTQ students: some are out, while others are just coming to terms with
their own sexual identity, and the members who are already out contribute a lot to the group.

“Even though I am no longer closeted, I think it is important for me to come to the group and
give support to other people who are just coming out,” said “Wilma,” ’08, also a group member.

One should not think of YANASH solely as a support group.

Ringle was instrumental in forming the group a couple of years ago. “I don’t see this as a group needing
support per se because nothing is wrong, but more in the sense that a community needs to be built,” she
said.

She believed it was important to create such a community since “out” homosexuals on campus comprise only about one percent
of the student body, a much lower statistic than other colleges and universities similar to Davidson.

Members of the faculty also see the importance of having such a group on campus.

“I think it’s critically important that the Davidson community is supportive of students in all aspects of their lives,” said
Laurie Heyer, L. Richardson King Assistant Professor of Mathematics.

YANASH members expressed hopes that one day such a group will not be necessary. Although blatant harassment of homosexuals is
not a problem on this campus, it is important to have a safe place for those who are not ready
to come out of the closet, to meet and talk about any concerns that they may have.

“It’s great to have people to talk with who know what I am going through as a gay student at
Davidson,” “Wilma” said.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2005

CoHo sponsored a climbathon in October to benefit Hinds Feet Farm.

Hinds Feet, from page 4

is really boring for me, but at least I know that he doesn’t have to worry about it [and] can
go about getting the grants.”

Pre-vet students from Davidson also help out at Hinds Feet Farm.

“They go out and it’s kind of a reciprocal thing,” McQueen said. “They groom the horses and ride them and
give them quasi-vet checkups.”

Since working at Hinds Feet Farm, McQueen has become particularly interested in helping Foil spread the message that brain injury
is preventable.

“Marty has a collection of helmets that he brings to elementary schools,” McQueen said. “The collection includes helmets worn by
tank drivers, helicopter pilots, race car drivers and others. He’s basically trying to say that helmets are cool.... His new
thing is a helmet with the brain painted on it so that he can show what part of the brain
is affected by different things.”

Although it is still in the construction process, Hinds Feet Farm has already garnered local and national attention.

Charlotte resident and brain injury survivor Lee Ann Barry recently stopped at the facility as part of her BIG Ride
event. Barry and husband Ben began the BIG Ride, a bi-annual cycling event, in 2001 to raise awareness for traumatic
brain injury.

“[She] had heard about what we were trying to do out here and a mutual friend got us together,” said
Foil. “And since she’s from Charlotte, and we’re trying to provide a place for survivors of brain injury here in
Charlotte, it was a perfect fit.”

Barry spent the afternoon of October 5 at Hinds Feet Farm eating food, meeting with people and giving helmets as
gifts to some of the local kids.

HOLIDAY FOOD DRIVE

From right now until December 21st, the Library is having a campus-wide food drive for items to be given to
the needy in our area.

*YOU MAY ALSO CANCEL YOUR LIBRARY FINES WITH DONATIONS OF FOOD*

REMEMBER, PLEASE, WE ARE FEEDING FAMILIES. NO SINGLE SERVING/SMALL ITEMS. SUGGESTED ITEMS:

ASSORTED VEGETABLES, JELLO, CANNED MEATS, SPAGHETTI, SOUPS, AND MACARONI

HOW: One non-perishable food item will cover up to $1.00 of overdue fines. (E.G. For 5 items of food, you
can pay for $4.50 in fines.)

WHERE: Library Circulation Desk
