THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
SEPTEMBER 14, 2005

- Unitarian Universalism offers diverse spiritual community

view God as a single entity and Jesus as an important prophet, but not necessarily an extension of His being.
Universalists formed from the Congregationalist movements in the American colonies and profess that all people are worthy of salvation in
the eyes of God. Today there are 1,000 Unitarian Universalist congregations in the United States. Instead of a creed or
dogma, UUs believe in and abide by seven principles in worship and daily life. The imprecision of these principles allows
for a wide range of individual beliefs within the church community; many adults in my church were raised in the
Catholic, Protestant, Jewish, and Hindu faiths. They often came upon Unitarianism in an effort to find a more tolerant, diverse,
and safe community in which to explore a myriad of spiritual beliefs.

By LEAH SWANEY
Special Contributor

I was eight when a boy in my religious education class told us, very gravely, “I don’t believe in God.”
He was only one year ahead of me, but his bold sincerity conveyed a depth of thought far beyond my
own. We veered into a discussion of the factors that lead people to believe or disbelieve and the kinds of
questions we can ask in order to clarify our own position. At the end of class, my teacher thanked everyone
for being so thoughtful in the discussion.

My mother and I talked about God on the way home from church. “Lots of people don’t believe in God,”
she said, “and many people don’t think of God as a white-bearded man in the sky who controls everything. For
some people, God is in nature, or is the thing that allows people to be kind and to love one
another.”

As I grew older, I became less concerned with the question of God and professed a kind of casual agnosticism.
Soccer games and school mattered more to me than religion. This approach to religion illustrates a defining feature of the
Unitarian Universalist Church, my religious community.

Unitarian Universalism officially formed in 1961, when the Unitarians and the Universalists merged. Unitarianism sprung up in Transylvania during the
17th century after the Reformation, and it is a theological rejection of the Trinitarian view of God. We view God
as a single entity and Jesus as an important prophet, but not necessarily an extension of His being. Universalists formed
from the Congregationalist movements in the American colonies and profess that all people are worthy of salvation in the eyes
of God. Today there are 1,000 Unitarian Universalist congregations in the United States. Instead of a creed or dogma, UUs
believe in and abide by seven principles in worship and daily life. The imprecision of these principles allows for a
wide range of individual beliefs within the church community; many adults in my church were raised in the Catholic, Protestant,
Jewish, and Hindu faiths. They often came upon Unitarianism in an effort to find a more tolerant, diverse, and safe
community in which to explore a myriad of spiritual beliefs.

I often doubt that Unitarian Universalism fits the definition of “religion,” as it lacks a strong foundation in one sacred
text and instead draws from many different backgrounds. In my own religious education classes (the term “Sunday School” is too
faith-specific to employ here), I spent more time studying the Civil Rights Movement and Jewish holidays than thinking about my
faith.

Very few children are raised in the Unitarian church; it is generally a community of adults, escaped from their more
structured religious traditions. My ambivalence toward my own religious upbringing often gives me pause as well; the encouragement to question
spiritual and social norms is an invaluable gift to a young adult, yet my own faith is so based in
reason that I rarely ponder my own beliefs.

Unitarian Universalism thrives in Cambridge, Massachusetts, a seat of affluence and education, but not in rural or impoverished areas. I
worry it is a smug community of non-believers, comfortable in their irreligiosity. Can I be humble without God? Is my
own moral and ethical code based in something more than personal whim and fancy?

The fact that I ask myself these questions proves my own self-awareness and constant vigilance against the kind of arrogant,
unflinching reason of which we Unitarians are so often criticized. I find peace in knowing that questions, rather than answers,
form the backbone of my belief in the sanctity of humanity, and in Unitarian Universalism, I find the purest expression
of that belief.

Our hymnals use gender-neutral language and contain songs about nature along with constants like “Joy to the World.” We have
married same-sex couples since 1984. Social justice and liberal progressivism often seem more important than spirituality in our congregations.

COMMUNITY CHURCH

Area churches, we invite you to worship with us. We're kind of like a challenge and nourish the Christian church
and also to be a welcoming community.

Lake Norman

We Meet Here
Lake Norman YMCA
(418) East (Old Statesville Rd)

www.lakenorman.org

Passion, Grace, Discovery
