Che Davidsonian

@ “THE SOUTH’S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

Mla

| First Class
U.S. POSTAGE PAID
PERMIT #1
| Davidson, NC
| =

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2005

VOLUME 97, NUMBER 11

The Dance Ensemble’s Fall Concert on Friday and Saturday night featured a wide variety of performances. See article, page 6.

Students struggle with coming out

By SAM HOTCHKISS
Guest Writer

For Davidson students who have not questioned, are not questioning, and will never question their sexual orientation, it’s hard to
know what it must be like for someone who does.

While many students are comfortable with their own sexual identity, others—peers, classmates, best friends, roommates—quietly struggle with coming to terms
with their own.

“Coming out is so hard because you don’t want to be labeled by your sexual orientation. You wouldn’t want people
to change their attitude towards you because of it,” said “Pebbles” ’08, a female

Preview of Conarroe lecturer

see NEWS, PAGE 2

member of You Are Not a Stranger Here (YANASH), a campus support group.

Many students struggling with coming out wonder about how different people would react.

For instance, many might be scared of how their friends would react to knowledge of their sexual orientation, especially if
their group of friends nonchalantly throws around derogatory homosexual words like “queer” and “fag.”

Many who come from a religious background might wonder how being gay would tie in with their religious beliefs. Probably
the biggest fear of many is the reaction of their parents.

For the past couple of years,

By AMEE PATEL
Editor-in-Chief

Sami Jarrah ’07, studying abroad in Jordan this semester, witnessed the aftermath of terrorism on a scale previously unseen in
the Arab country. He passed near the hotels minutes after the bombings in Amman, the capital city, last Wednesday night.

“You could hear sirens all over,” he wrote via email.

Three Iraqi suicide bombers, members of Jordanian terrorist Abu Musab Zarqawi’s al-Qaeda network in Iraq, blew themselves up

Davidson has been providing support for these students through YANASH, a group solely for students who identify as gay, lesbian,
bisexual, transgender, or questioning (GLBTQ).

Although the group appreciates support from straight allies, the group prefers to remain solely for students who are GLBTQ, fulfilling
a different purpose than the Gay-Straight Alliance (GSA).

At every meeting, someone different is asked to lead the discussion.

At recent meetings, which are held every other week, the group talked about homosexuality and how it is portrayed in
the media,

See YANASH, page 5

Bombings in Jordan affect students abroad

in a simultaneous attack on hotels frequented by Westerners, killing over 50 people and wounding 150 more.

Jarrah drove by the smallest of the three hotels, Days Inn, in a taxi before Jordanian authorities shut down the
capital’s main roads and brought the entire city to a standstill.

Jarrah wrote, “I was on my way home at 9 p.m. when the explosions were happening. The taxi I was
in passed the Days Inn hotel just after the explosion but before

See Jordan, page 3

CCRL approves black sorority

By LEXI HAMILTON
Senior Staff Writer

The Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL), an advisory committee to the president, voted 17-2 yesterday in support of
bringing a historically black sorority to Davidson College.

Sorority organizers Whitney White ’08, Charisma Looney ’08, and Ashley Moore ’07 gave a presentation to the CCRL explaining the
organization’s mission and then fielded questions from students and faculty.

“We see a need at Davidson,” White said, “and this sorority can fill that need by giving women of color
a place to become leaders, serve the community, and integrate into Patterson Court.”

Currently, seven black women are members in traditional Patterson Court eating houses. Two more plan to join eating houses in
the spring semester.

Although approximately 70 percent of female students join eating houses, less than one percent of these women are minorities.

The organizers of the sorority presented a timeline that outlined their process, which began in 2004. They have since collected
600 signatures from students of all ethnic backgrounds who support their endeavor.

The group also sponsored a campus-wide information session in order to increase awareness about black sororities and their traditional differences
from historically white sororities.

“That was perhaps the most difficult part of this process,” organizer Alice Frimpong ’08 said. “Many individuals are misinformed about
black sororities.”

Black sororities, which are governed by the National Pan-Hellenic Council, have no rush process. Because members are selected by the
national organization alone, no member of the sorority has any influence over who may apply for membership.

During the discussion panel that followed the presentation, some CCRL members raised concerns that the addition of a black sorority
to the Patterson Court community would further isolate minorities.

“We feel that this type of sorority will engage the women of color on a different level,” Moore said. “They
will be required to participate with other Patterson Court organizations through co-sponsored events, like those Alpha Phi Alpha currently sponsors
with the eating houses.”

Patterson Court advisor Joy Hamm also emphasized that the proposed sorority would increase rather than decrease diversity on

See CCRL, page 4

Superintendent of Building Services Gloria Cole and Carolyn Kiss ’08 sort trash at the EAC’s Waste Audit yesterday.

PERSPECTIVES: Will Davidson live up to its motto? PAGE 10

‘Cats looking for more than moral victory

see SPORTS, PAGE 12

‘Jarheads’: More than an anti-war movie

see A&L, PAGE 7
