_ THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2005 11

Stop and smell the

A college that has abandoned its cause education

A friend of mine who happens to edit the sports page habitually tells me that he never sees me working;
he does not understand how I can avoid my homework as much as I often do. My response is usually
a statement like, “Work is overrated,” or, if I’m in a particularly good mood, “Work is a waste of [string
of expletives] time.” Well, you know what? As usual, I’m right.

The best discussions that I have had regarding Socrates, Luther, Shakespeare, and Reagan—yes, all in the same conversation—have always been
far from the Humes lecture hall and the Religion classroom, amid the truly stimulating environment of ESPN, classical piano music,
a fake fireplace, and a slew of quesadillas. For those who don’t enjoy the late-night Union environment, you may also
find this scholastic haven in the lounges of your dorms, at the round tables at Commons, or on the lawn
by Cunningham. I speak of your fellow students.

I hold that I learn more from yakking at 3:00 a.m. about moral relativism and the debate between science and
religion than I do from spending that time the way I “should”—namely writing a Blackboard post on Galileo. Also, you
will never truly understand Soren Kierkegaard until you apply his principles to your friend’s issues with his girlfriend.

Let me pause here with a disclaimer: I am in no way trying to undermine the purpose of professors or
classes. In saying that I learn more outside the classroom than in it, I am leaving out half of the
story. Through lectures, assigned readings, and writing papers, every student here gains exposure to and understanding of Davidson’s espoused liberal
arts. This traditional academic approach is the critical piece of our exposure to knowledge. What I suggest is that exposure
is merely the first step in education.

Consider for a moment the purpose of the seminar. As an upper-level course, it apparently represents the ideal classroom environment:
a course in which the students discuss the material with the teacher presented more as facilitator than lecturer. Now, while
I am most definitely a presumptuous little “wise fool,” I still see no reason why the principle of student discussion
as the effective means of academic enrichment should not apply to every level of education.

Of course, I speak in ideals. But at Davidson, the standards are a step closer to the ideal. Everywhere around
you, there are students with relevant, unique, and intelligent perspectives on what we’re learning and, more importantly, why we’re learning.
As obvious as it sounds; people who go here know their stuff. They are your best source of intelligent discussion
on everything you learn. Some 1700 resources are just waiting to give you your money’s worth for your education.

And what’s stopping you? What is it that keeps us from taking advantage of such a perfect educational environment? Well,
as the typical Davidson student does, I will blame it on the workload. Seriously, so many people I know spend
their time reading every word of Machiavelli, memorizing every battle in the Civil War, or regurgitating exactly what a professor
has said about cubism. They never stop to really think about what they learn; they turn the Davidson experience into
that fabled factory that cynics consider college to be: no more than four years of labor exchanged for a piece
of paper with two letters on it.

To say nothing of questioning exactly what we are doing here. We are supposed to be preparing ourselves to contribute
to the world someday down the road. Granted, it is entirely possible to contribute to the world by going through
the motions, a cog in the giant machine of post-graduate employment. But to best contribute, to make the most of
this four-year sojourn we have undertaken, we should aspire to do more with what we know. We should be enriching
our perspectives, applying things we learn to everything we do, considering all the alternatives. Education is a lot more than
what shows up on the syllabus.

“I have never let my schooling interfere with my education,” says Samuel Clemens. “Damn straight,” say I.

Nathan Bradshaw is a sophomore from Swannanoa, N.C. Contact him at nabradshaw@davidson.edu.

By JOSEPH ADAMS
Guest Columnist

I have always been taken aback by the stark yellow walls separating Bob Jones University from the rest of the
world. Rumor has it that Bob Jones offers its students an illiberal education, limiting students’ freedom to reach their own
conclusions about right and wrong on questions of faith, philosophy, politics, and any number of other topics. Yet rumor also
has it that we receive a liberal education here at Davidson. This is not to be confused in the first
instance with a liberal arts education. While a liberal arts education entails exposing students to multiple disciplines, the hallmark of
a liberal education is its focus on developing the mind and character of students so that they can make the
important choices between fact and falsehood, right and wrong.

We all agree that education is foremost a process by which we are made into something better than we would
have been without it. Yet even if we agree on what education is, we are left with a second question
of what education should do. Davidson’s answer to this second question is that education should prepare students to confront the
problems of truth and right that we will not only encounter once we leave this place, but that we even
grapple with during our years of study here.

If one considers it the mission of Davidson College to provide its students with the liberal education that is perhaps
the one necessary thing for men and women who live in freedom, my three years on this campus have led
me to conclude that Davidson is failing—and failing miserably—in this mission. Put another way, Davidson successfully recognizes that providing a
liberal education is what education should do, but it is altogether failing to provide its students with such an education.

Recently a professor was quoted in this paper as saying that the Secretary of Education was an “inappropriate” FallConvocation speaker
for Davidson to the extent that this professor “found Spellings’ views to be completely out of line with the college’s
values.” This comes from a professor, by the way, who purports to “not oppose speakers with different viewpoints.” Since a
ribbon-wearing campaign was orchestrated by a considerable number of faculty in apparent protest of Spellings’ visit, it is reasonable to
infer that it was a somewhat widely-held opinion among the faculty that Spellings should not have been invited to speak
at Davidson. The attitude expressed by these professors is a microcosm of everything that is wrong with Davidson, and the
whole affair would be quite laughable if this viewpoint were held by only a small number of faculty or if
the matter did not expose such a critical problem. Nevertheless, I won’t hold my breath awaiting a faculty petition urging
the toleration—and much less the teaching—of views that differ from the “college’s values.” In defense of the college, some will
point out that Secretary Spellings was in fact invited to speak at Davidson. Yet the fact that she was invited
here further demonstrates the growing Davidson trend of ostracizing certain perspectives. Indeed, by inviting Spellings to speak at Convocation, the
college pulled off quite a coup. On the one hand, it could be championed for fostering “intellectual diversity” by bringing
a speaker with “conservative” and unpopular views to campus. On the other hand, it could simultaneously confine her speech by
asking her to speak in a certain format and context that made it inappropriate for her to present the political
opinions that distinguish her from the consensus view of the Davidson faculty and, we can reasonably assume, the college as
a whole. Faculty should take notice that their attempts to present their personal opinions as historical or scientific fact, their
efforts to stifle intellectual dissent in the classroom, and their blatant acts of selectively biasing the focus of their courses
do not pass muster in the eyes of all students on this campus. Just as a professor who pontificates on
the Iraq war while purporting to teach the history of another war cannot expect to brainwash those few students who
can still recognize hubris when they hear it, a college that systematically ostracizes students for holding “offensive” or “unacceptable” minority
viewpoints cannot justly earn the respect of its students. And by no means can it provide them with a liberal
education. Joseph Adams is a senior political science major from Angier, N.C. Contact him at jsadams@davidson.edu.

Sometimes school can make you stupid

School is a difficult paradox: learning is sometimes stifled by schoolwork. I know this sounds odd, so let me explain.
It all comes down to learning versus grades. I think we learn the most through the process of completing an
assignment the first time through—the rough draft of a paper, the first attempt at a difficult math problem—our first intuition.
Then the learning stops, because then comes the checking, analyzing, second-guessing, scrutinizing, re-thinking, re-wording, re-doing. This awful little needle in
my brain keeps poking me, whispering, “make it as perfect as you can,” so I correct an assignment until it
is as close to what the professor wants as I can make it; until it is the absolute best effort
that I can put forth. The time wasted in this process is ridiculous. If I weren’t worried about the grade
or the professor’s approval I would be not so much careless but carefree about making mistakes, from which I could
learn a lot later. I would much rather spend half the time that I normally do on a paper or
problem and use the time saved to learn about something unrelated to school or to pursue a club, sport, or
nothing at all. And working harder to please a professor than to satisfy myself does not mesh with my idea
of ideal learning, which is a very personal process that satisfies the learner’s needs only. Wouldn’t it be nice to
turn in more rough drafts than final drafts? Catching our own mistakes is a good learning experience, but being able
to see how our minds first formulate thoughts and ideas is also important.

CAREY BAXTER

It would be so freeing to just spew out exactly what is in our minds without trying to hone it
down to fit into someone else’s mold. Too often we are plagued by tunnel vision; we focus solely on the
grade or specific task at hand and forget to stop and think how this new knowledge applies to our overall
learning experience. For those of you who can whip out a masterpiece in one sitting, I suppose all of this
doesn’t apply. But all of us can relate to the burden of a pretty heavy workload. Sometimes a big paper
or test in one subject causes us to put aside work in all other classes to focus just on the
big paper or test, thus putting the blinders on again. So what if we did have less work or just
a steadier workload throughout the semester? Well, this is the part that comes back to bite me in the butt
because almost all of us would slack off and do nothing if we had less work. I would much rather
spend half the time that I normally do on a paper or problem and use the time saved to learn
about something unrelated to school. Learning wouldn’t necessarily be enhanced by less work. It is sadly true that we are
much more productive when we have a lot of work looming in our near future than when the assignments are
light. I know I wouldn’t read nearly as much or the same books if my education were left up to
me. My self-discipline only extends so far when I’m not being prodded by visions of GPAs and graduate schools and
future careers. So fear keeps me studying hard, but not always in the ideal mindset. So what do we do?
Be mindful of who we’re working for. At the end of the day your brain is the only one you
have to deal with. I hope mine won’t be filled with memories of editing and correcting to please someone else.

Carey Baxter is a sophomore from Monkton, Md. Contact her at cabaxter@davidson.edu.
