10 PERSPECTIVES THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2005

Staff Editorial

Strengthen the Court

When Turner faced declining membership that threatened the eating house with debt and extinction, the Davidson College administration intervened. Now, just two years later, CoHo faces a similar dilemma. As an article in this week’s issue reveals, CoHo’s situation could ultimately force it to fold. Low student interest has affected the house both socially and financially. The problem does not apply to CoHo alone. Some fraternities on the court are dwindling in numbers. This has become an issue that Patterson Court needs to think hard about.

We do not intend to implicate that any house currently struggling should shut down; however, we believe that, on principle, an organization should not be artificially sustained. Patterson Court should never host any organization that cannot maintain itself. The leadership at CoHo has stressed its desire to fix the problem internally, and we applaud that. But if CoHo does, in fact, remain in debt and with little student interest—or another organization finds itself in a similar predicament—what good does it do to continue supporting it? The administration should not throw out any more lifelines. One or two fewer options on the Court could lead to more enthusiasm and higher membership in the remaining houses. More importantly, prime real estate down the hill could go to worthier causes.

The Alphas, for instance, have continued to grow and attract new members. If that trend continues, and they decide to push for a house, it would be hard to argue that they aren’t more deserving than some organizations on the Court right now. In another case, which has been brought many times before in this paper and around campus, the overall Patterson Court atmosphere might be improved by the return of the Outpost. Having a late-night, greasy-food stop in one of the houses, instead of in the Union alone, would bring more people of all social circles down the hill. In addition to increasing the volume of visitors, it might also spark revived interest in membership.

Obviously, such solutions come at the expense of existing organizations. We realize that it may not always be best to view things through a Darwinian lens. Yet if we admit that the Court plays a vital role in the life of this institution, we should seek to strengthen it as a whole and keep it from faltering whenever possible. Otherwise, all Davidson students will lose.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel

Managing Editor
Mike Giglio

News Editors
Liz Barry, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia

Perspectives Editor
Matt Bandyk

Arts & Living Editors
Elizabeth Burkhead & Andy X Martin

Yowl Editor
Sports Editors
Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrory

Photography Editor
Dorsett Clark

Advertising & Circulation

Letters to the Editors

After Midnight reveals rudeness

Last Saturday night, I witnessed the disturbing transformation of numerous polite and respectful Davidson students into rude and inconsiderate individuals. This time it occurred just around the stroke of midnight in the rush for After Midnight’s free Chick-Fil-A. There were many levels of rude behavior. Some students skipped in line, while others left trash and food all over their tables to be cleaned up by someone else. I also watched as students filled the pockets of their coats and sweatshirts with Chick-Fil-A sandwiches. They ignored requests for them to return those extras to the box and sometimes continued to grab even more. Can you really eat five sandwiches, mini-biscuits, and several nuggets in one sitting? Students also came back through the line several times and blatantly lied about having already been served.

While we were not acting as college officials and this was not college business, I think that living by the ethics and etiquette of the Honor Code should not be dismissed in the face of free food on a Saturday night. I want to make it clear that I am not talking about everyone who attended this event. We had hundreds go through the line who only took one sandwich and two or three nuggets as instructed. I even overheard a few students thank those who provided this food. After Midnight is an amazing event for which we should all be grateful. Tons of effort goes into the planning, set-up, food, and clean-up of such an event that brings together students from across the wide Davidson social scene. Think about this the next time you attend one of these events with FREE food and be thankful, patient, and considerate.

Jennifer Mickle ‘05
Union Board Vice-President

Bradshaw mistakes motive of CBS bias

Nathan Bradshaw’s claim that he gave a “cursory reading” to the Independent Review Panel’s report on “Memogate” appears to be a gross overstatement (“CBS memo scandal shows liberal bias”, Jan. 19). Contrary to what Mr. Bradshaw would have his readers believe, the report states, “...the Panel cannot conclude that a political agenda at ‘60 Minutes Wednesday’ drove either the timing of the airing of the Segment or its content.” Granted, that little gem was hidden wayBack on page 28 of the Executive Summary under the heading “Political Agenda,” so we can’t expect someone doing research on media bias to have stumbled upon it. I noticed those clever panelists had snuck in a section entitled “Whether there was a Political Agenda Driving the September 8 Segment.” But the introduction doesn’t seem to support his case: “The Panel does not find a basis to accuse those who investigated, produced, vetted, or aired the Segment of having a political bias.” Mr. Bradshaw must have found his evidence under the sub-section “Rather and Mapes’ Long Pursuit of the TexANG Story”: “The Panel does not view the length of Rather and Mapes’ pursuit of this story as persuasive evidence of a political agenda.” Another dead-end. Surely the sub-section “Anti-Bush Sources” contains the smoking gun: “The Panel does not believe that evidence exists to demonstrate that the political leanings of any source influenced the production of the September 8 Segment.” “Kerry Campaign Connections” is where the Panel hits its stride. Commenting on Ms. Mapes’ contacts with the Kerry campaign, the report says, “As stated elsewhere in this Report, the Panel finds that such use of the campaign was entirely improper. The Panel also concludes, however, that these contacts were motivated by Mapes’ pursuit of the story and not by any political agenda.” The Panel came up with at least nine different ways of saying ‘liberal bias did not play a role in this story,’ yet Mr. Bradshaw and the fanatical right couldn’t seem to find any of them. I applaud The Davidsonian for choosing such an expert at selective research to write about biased reporting, but “Memogate” has to be one of the weakest pieces of evidence offered up by the Right-Wing Noise Machine in support of their liberal media conspiracy theory.

Chris Evans ’05

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor. Please e-mail submissions of less than 250 words to davidsonian@davidson.edu. We reserve the right to edit for content, brevity, and grammar.

ATC’s funding is fair and responsible

At the end of the last semester, there was some debate on campus, mainly in poster form, over the seemingly unfair allocations to various clubs. At the forefront of the discontented was Ars Longa, our school’s new art society. After asking for over $2,000 from ATC, the new club received the standard allocation for new clubs: $250. So why were they mad if every first-year club gets the same amount?

To put it simply, not every first-year club is limited to the $250 amount. Woodrow received a larger amount of money under a rule that allows a new publication to receive sufficient money for start-up costs, even if the costs exceed $250. And Club Baseball seemed to break the rules when they received a $1,400 allocation from the Activities Tax Council. Is Ars Longa right? Is there a problem here? In my humble opinion, not at all.

First, Woodrow must pay for their start-up costs in order to exist. The hard work of the entire publication staff would be for naught if they only received $250, which is not nearly enough money to create a valuable campus publication. Second, the SGA voted to appropriate Club Baseball $1,400 in funds because, again, they needed the money to be able to exist. The Varsity Sports Committee will not allow them to use the campus baseball fields, so they will end up paying more than $1,400 for field space alone. This is in addition to equipment, uniform, and league fees. Furthermore, we were allowed to allocate Club Baseball more than $250 as a first-year organization because they are not a separate organization per se; rather, they are under the umbrella organization of Club Sports. This allowed us to meet part of Club Baseball’s request (originally $4,000). SGA spent three meetings debating the Club Baseball issue, and not everybody agreed. Regardless of the eventual result, Club Baseball knew that they were going to have to do a prodigious amount of fundraising to be able to survive. Each member has paid $50 in dues, and even after that and the ATC allocation they still have to raise about $2,000.

And therein lays the purpose of the $250 rule: it encourages new clubs to budget wisely, build a strong base of interested members, and fundraise creatively and often. Groups with strong leaders, committed members, and proven value to the Davidson community will survive and be able to request more money in their second year. In essence, the $250 rule helps keep your student activities fee low, because it makes fundraising an integral part of all student groups from the beginning, and thus teaches your fellow students fiscal responsibility. Not all clubs are created equal, and if a group wants the right to complain about the $250 rule, they have to try fundraising first. Ars Longa started fundraising this past weekend, and I wish them the best of luck.

Sam Spencer is an SGA sophomore senator majoring in physics and political science from Davidson, N.C. He can be contacted at saspencer@davidson.edu.