10 PERSPECTIVES THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2005

Staff Editorial

No walls to protect us

It’s 1 a.m. on Thursday night, and after three hours buried in the library, it’s finally time to emerge and
head to bed. With iPod at full blast, you begin the trek down the hill alone, thinking about little more
than the massive headache you somehow developed in the past few hours. Completely oblivious to your surroundings, you are far
from thinking about how vulnerable to robbery—or worse—you might appear. After all, this is Davidson College. Will not the Honor
Code protect us? What could happen here in our community of trust, where we leave our bags unattended in the
Union and find $20 bills taped outside dorm rooms?

As three Davidson students discovered, a lot can happen. Two weekends ago, three seniors were followed onto campus and robbed
by a carload of males. Thankfully, the mugging was relatively harmless—no one was hurt, and the assailants got away with
little more than pocket change. While an incident like this is rare, it should serve as a reminder to Davidson
students that living in an open community like ours does not preclude them, or justify attitudes of carelessness and neglect.
There is and has been increased vigilance on the part of public safety since the incident. As Dean of Students
Tom Shandley wrote in an email sent to the entire student body yesterday, “We have stepped up patrols in that
area and all parking lots on campus.” But this will not be enough. As one of the students admitted, their
negligence was to blame for the robbery. Even after noticing that a car was following them, they failed to recognize
the potential danger. Is that so unusual? How often do any of us watch for cars that may be following
us, or actually ask who is at the door before opening it?

Davidson often sells itself as an idyllic, walled-in community. Does this hurt more than it helps? Town development policies aside,
Davidson and surrounding suburbs will continue to grow in the future. With this growth will come a new reality for
Davidson College. As Chief of Campus Safety Fountain Walker said, “The Davidson community is often targeted for crimes because of
its reputation for trustworthiness and affluence.” While increased patrols and better lighting may help, incidences like the mugging will continue
unless we as students increase our own vigilance. We need to recognize that the Davidson “bubble” does not exist. We
are not a walled community and do not seek to be. But, as long as we continue deluding ourselves, we’re
putting this entire community at risk.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS ©

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel

Managing Editor
Mike Giglio

News Editors
Kate Gillespie, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia

Perspectives Editors
Halley Aelion & Matt Bandyk

Arts & Living Editors
Jarrod Blue & Reid Wildman

Yow! Editors
Bobby Kenner & Jeff Yeakel

Sports Editors
Monica Jamouneau & Pierce Trumbo

Photography Editor
Jessica Hodge

Business Manager
Nick Horton

Advertising & Circulation Managers
Sarah Bogue & Janelle Milanes

+ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR +

Faculty response to Spellings hypocritical

The last issue of The Davidsonian (10/26) featured an article on Secretary Spellings. Aside from highlighting the insular thinking of
this college’s faculty, the article addressed the supposed need for Spellings to stay “above the political fray.” As an alumnus,
I recall my own Fall Convocation speaker in 2002, John Hope Franklin. This man, an accomplished civil rights leader and
historian, did nothing more in his speech than lambaste any supporter of President Bush, tell Americans how bullish he thinks
we are, and regurgitate tired political talking points. Yet, he was awarded with a standing ovation and an honorary doctorate.
One party works for President Bush and the other criticizes him. Is this hypocrisy at work?

Khoury Ashooh ’03

Columnist gets patriotism wrong

I would like to congratulate Mr. Bradshaw on once again confusing sensationalism with making a good or coherent point (The
Davidsonian, 10/26) and for suggesting that we as citizens, instead of seeking to improve his beloved (and apparently perfect) America,
should simply throw up our hands in disgust and apathy and “move to Somalia.” He fails to realize that the
criticisms of these unpatriotic America-haters are actually the suggestions of well-intentioned public servants constantly seeking to make America an even
better country than it is today. I also question the logic of the headline “Defy the P.C. gods and thank
America,” which seems to imply that making off-color jokes about Helen Keller or lesbians somehow qualifies as expressing gratitude toward
the countless men and women who have died in order to keep our country safe from foreign attack.

Andy Kifer ’08

Community should adopt less selfish ends

I am writing this letter out of disappointment and with the hopes of inspiring even a few students on this
campus to introspection. I recently experiencedanother hit and run on my car parked on campus, the fourth time in three
years. The repairs have cost a total of $2,000. The point of this letter is not my car’s trauma, however.
I want to encourage the Davidson community to make less selfish decisions in their lives. Understandably we are busy and
we have pride. Yet, somehow, these oft virtuous traits preclude more important qualities like honor, responsibility, and learning. My situation
is only one example. Are we too busy/important/confused to honorably fess up to hitting someone else’s car? Are we too
stressed/tired/drunk to take responsibility for our personal actions? Are we too focused/intellectual/ambitious to learn from our mistakes? My point here
is not the car; if you still think so, you are missing the importance of my means. Furthermore, I am
in no way ragging on the incredible and inspiring people in this community. I simply hope to further incite discussion
and introspection into why we do the things we do.

Matt Wilson ’06

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor. Please e-mail submissions of less than 250 words to davidsonian@davidson.edu by Sunday night.
We reserve the right to edit for content, brevity, and grammar.

A critical mass of campus awareness
By Joe Taylor
Guest Columnist

Breast Cancer Awareness Day, which occurred last Wednesday, coincided with Asian Awareness Week during Domestic Violence Awareness Month. October is
a conscientious month whose enviable multi-tasking abilities enable it to simultaneously serve as AIDS Awareness Month, Apple Month, Book Month,
Car Care Month, Cosmetology Month, Dental Hygiene Month, Family Sexuality Education Month, and Medical Librarians Month. Did I forget to
mention National Coming Out Day? It is an understatement to say that those who unabashedly claim days and months to
be devoted to their cause are completely out of control. Not a single day goes by that someone should not
be more aware or sensitive toward something, while also being mindful of something else that is completely unrelated to the
original focus of attention for that day. Or was it that month? Those who unabashedly claim days and months to
be devoted to their cause are completely out of control.

The worst part about this dizzying array of superficial awareness is that even local events that are planned with sincerity
become trite and shallow. Breast Cancer Awareness Day and National Coming Out Day, for example, were respectively celebrated on campus
with pink- and rainbow-colored ribbons. How these items raise awareness or support is beyond me. Would I have been more
aware of breast cancer on Wednesday if I had worn a pink shirt? Would I have made a difference by
scribbling my name on the gigantic Gay-Straight Alliance banner? One problem with these approaches toward garnering public support is that
the public often feels obligated to participate for no reason other than peer pressure. Who wouldn’t support awareness of breast
cancer? The information or enlightening discussions that could genuinely affect these problems do not result from ribbons or banners. Perhaps
a more effective way to raise awareness is to educate people about the cause or to catalyze discussions about ways
in which to improve stagnant situations.

An article by Sam Hotchkiss in the October 26 issue of The Davidsonian ironically illustrates this point very clearly. In
it, Mr. Hotchkiss dedicates a few paragraphs to the ease with which he lives his life as an “out, gay
male at Davidson,” before abruptly turning toward his shock and outrage at the disparity between the number of signatures on
the National Coming Out Day banner and the 94 percent of students who responded to the CORE survey supporting different
sexual orientations on campus. The information and discussions that could genuinely affect these problems do not result from ribbons or
banners. Perhaps the disparity, Mr. Hotchkiss, results not from a lack of tolerance but from the way the GSA chose
to garner support. If people have been accepting of you then what is the specific purpose of the banner? You
ask for signatures but do not describe the specific problems on campus or in society that reveal the undeniable ignorance
and bigotry that truly needs to be addressed. Despite Mr. Hotchkiss’ clever attempts to prove that being “anti-gay” is no
longer “P.C.,” he fails to incite the genuine discussion or thought that would make a difference. Perhaps everyone would learn
more about tolerance from a speaker or a film than they would from seeing more signatures on a piece of
paper or more people at the “Barbequeer,” an obnoxious and unnecessary pun on sexuality that shames even the most tactless
celebration of heterosexuality. With ideas and information, these gimmicks, which create more problems than they solve, would become irrelevant. As
a result, special events like Breast Cancer Awareness Day and National Coming Out Day could genuinely make a difference because
of quality, not quantity.

Joe Taylor is a senior neuroscience major from Poland, OH. Contact him at jotaylor@davidson.edu.
