Che Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

@ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2005

| First CLASS
| U.S. POSTAGE PAID
| PERMIT #1

Davidson, NC

VOLUME 97, NUMBER 6

Students visited Peru with Dr. Russell Crandall last January

Davidson study abroad
to be introduced in Peru

By KATIE PFEIFFER

Senior Staff Writer

Davidson is expanding its study abroad program to include a new location in Peru, projected to begin in fall 2007.

The Peru experience will begin as a semester-long program every other year while the college continues to weigh student interest.

“We’re very optimistic that it [the Peru program] will be implemented,” said Latin American history professor and program co-director Jane Mangan. “It will provide an opportunity for students with diverse abilities.”

The new program will be based in Arequipa, a vibrant colonial city of about one million people.

Students will live with host families and attend class at a local public university, taking a regular Davidson course load of four classes during the semester.

As of now, Davidson expects to be based at San Agustin National University, a vibrant academic community that boasts a sprawling campus in the city’s downtown area.

A field visit will be conducted later this year to confirm the site’s

See Peru, page 4

Legendary librarian Park
announces retirement

By LEXI HAMILTON
Staff Writer

Dr. Leland Park ’63 recently announced he would retire this summer after serving for nearly 40 years as the director of the Davidson College library.

Park, who graduated from Davidson with a degree in political science in 1963, has been the library director since 1975.

Park is only Davidson College’s third library director in the past 99 years. Cornelia Shaw took over the task of running the library in 1907, and Dr. Chalmers Davidson ’28 served as the director from 1936 to 1975.

All three worked to make the library experience a unique, personal reflection of the integrity and

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL

see SPORTS, PAGE 12

Playoff
predictions

spirit that characterize the Davidson community.

“If you’re looking for a walking icon that represents Davidson, for over two decades it’s been Leland Park,” President Bobby Vagt said. “His retirement should be a sadness milestone in the life of the college. The great challenge will be how to draw out of his brain all of the institutional memory.”

In his years at Davidson, Park hired all of the current library staff members.

“I have been responsible for the hiring,” Park said, “and I take full credit. These are great people.”

Park and his colleagues work as a single, harmonious entity in the library.
See Park, page 5

Science majors kicked out
of academic buildings

Campus Safety enforcing 1 a.m. deadline

By MIKE TELLIS
Staff Writer

Campus Safety began enforcing a contentious policy requiring students to vacate academic buildings after 1 a.m. this semester.

The administration defends this policy, citing the high costs of keeping buildings open for 24 hours.

“The primary rationale for the policy is saving money, principally utility cost,” Dean of Faculty Clark Ross said. “An outdated (and, thus low) estimate of savings is nearly $500,000 a year for all academic buildings. Safety of students and equipment is also another reason for the policy.”

This policy existed in the past but was not normally enforced if students had entered the building before the deadline.

Professors had previously been responsible for enforcing the policy, but last spring, a group of science professors asked President Bobby Vagt to relieve them of this duty.

HOMECOMING 2005

Seniors Emily Rodda and Jordie Poncy were crowned Queen and King last weekend. Read about the game on page 16.

“They said that they understood the policy and didn’t want to be policemen,” Vagt said. “They asked if I would take responsibility for enforcing the policy, and I said yes.”

Over the period of this semester, many students have been escorted out of academic buildings by Campus Safety on a number of occasions. Science students have been especially hard hit by the change in policy enforcement.

The science buildings afford students with equipment and specialized software which are only accessible at these locations.

Owing to time and space constraints, evenings and nights are often the only times that the resources in the science buildings are available to the students.

There has been much correspondence between President Bobby Vagt and a number of science students who feel strongly about this issue.

“I know a lot of physics, chem-

See Studying, page 3

courtesy photo

Margaret Spellings

Sec. Spellings
to speak at
convocation

By SUMMERLEE WALTER

Staff Writer

Davidson College recently announced that the United States Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings will speak at its 2005 Fall Convocation.

Spellings will address students, parents, and faculty on October 22 at 10:30 a.m. in the Duke Family Performance Hall.

Davidson’s principal executive staff, consisting of President Bobby Vagt and the deans, began the process of selecting a Fall Convocation speaker shortly after classes reconvened in August.

Spellings immediately came to mind as a topical speaker who would not only provide insight into the challenges and the goals of higher education but would provide a balance to last fall’s speaker Marian Wright Edelman.

Edelman, founder and president of the Children’s Defense Fund, called on citizens to pressure elected officials to put the needs of children first in her address.

Whereas Spring Convocation focuses primarily on recognizing the year’s student and faculty accomplishments, the highlight of Fall Convocation has traditionally been a guest speaker who addresses a topic of current interest to those involved in attaining, shaping, and supporting higher education.

“In light of her extraordinari-

See Spellings, page 5

SEE PAGE 10

threat?

see PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 11

convenience or

Dylan in
Scorsese’s ‘No
Direction Home’

see A&L, PAGE 7