2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By KATIE PFEIFFER
Senior Staff Writer

The Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC) will continue its four-year stay at Davidson from January 23 to February 5 with an education residency themed “Infinite Variety: Love and Family in Shakespeare’s Plays” in 2007.

Director of Artist Residency Bethany Prestigiacomo hopes that, with this year’s small-scale treatment of workshops and productions, “students will have a lot more involvement with the RSC on a personal level.”

Members of the RSC plan to conduct eating house dinners, coffee gatherings, and beanbag events with students to provide an informal forum for discussion of Shakespeare, in addition to classroom appearances.

A January 31 beanbag event will double as a workshop in using Shakespearean scenes to discuss real-life situations.

The RSC’s involvement will extend beyond the English and Theater disciplines when the visiting music group Ensemble Chaconne conducts a master class on Elizabethan performance.

The class will cover the instruments and styles of singing during Shakespeare’s time and will be free to the general public.

Ensemble Chaconne will perform music from Shakespeare’s plays on January 28.

The college will also host several prestigious guest lecturers in an effort to transcend the constraints of Elizabethan issues and apply Shakespeare’s work to modern themes.

Three scholars will lead a January 24-26 event designated “Perspectives on Shakespeare, Marriage, and Family” to speak about Shakespeare across multiple areas of interest.

“What appeals to the study of Shakespeare is that he hatches on so many aspects of human nature,” Prestigiacomo said.

B.J. Sokol from Goldsmiths University will speak on “Marriage, Culture, and Law in Shakespeare’s Day,” and Lisa Hopkins from Sheffield Hallam University will give a talk entitled “Love in Shakespeare: A Community Affair.”

Lynda E. Boose from Dartmouth University will speak on women’s roles in Shakespeare.

In conjunction with the residency, English professor Cynthia Lewis will teach a spring semester course entitled “Shakespeare Practicum—Love and Family.”

The class will present a student-run performance consisting of six scenes taken from “Romeo and Juliet,” “Measure for Measure,” “Henry IV,” “Twelfth Night,” and “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.”

According to Lewis, the medium by which the RSC actors will interact with students “puts emphasis on the educational aspect [of performance].”

The course is a discussion-based reinforcement of the performance based on a more complex study of the six scenes.

It will fulfill the Theatre 353/English 353 requirement and can also be used to accommodate the English 453 seminar requirement for seniors.

Steve Gaultney ’07 and Athena Stevens ’06 are writing the one-hour play that will tie all the scenes together. These students will receive guidance throughout the writing process from a playwright in the RSC.

Lewis points out that the medium by which the RSC actors will interact with students this year “puts emphasis on the educational aspect [of performance].”

Students in previous Shakespeare courses affirm that activities associated with the goals of the RSC are instrumental in revitalizing classroom material.

“I think it’s imperative to act out certain scenes,” said Serra Aygun ’06. “It gives you a more complete understanding of the meaning behind the words.”

Lewis hopes to bring the production to the Edinburgh Fringe Drama Festival in Scotland during the summer of 2006.

A performance of songs and sonnets by students and professors will comprise another aspect of the production, titled “For Every Passion Something: Scenes, Songs, and Sonnets of Shakespeare.” Students will have to audition to perform the songs. Faculty will volunteer for the sonnets portion.

According to Lewis, the educational focus of the residency enables “a multi-faceted project,” which she hopes will broaden the scope by which students interpret Shakespeare’s influence on literature and life.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2005

Students greet the Royal Shakespeare Company as they arrive on campus.

Theatre professor Ann Marie Costa will direct the theatre in their presentation of “She Loves Me” on October 19 and 20 at 7:30 p.m., October 21 and 22 at 8:15 p.m., and October 23 at 2 p.m. in the Duke Family Performance Hall. Tickets are $15 general admission or $12 for seniors.

Melissa Pilgrim from the Savannah River Ecology Laboratory will speak on using isotopes to analyze trophic relationships among reptiles and amphibians on October 20 at 4 p.m. in Room 146 in Dana Science Building.

DC Jazz Ensemble Concert

The Davidson College Jazz Ensemble will give a concert on October 21 at 8 p.m. in the Duke Family Performance Hall.

Musical Interludes

Dylan Savage of the University of North Carolina at Charlotte will give a piano concert on October 21 at 7 p.m. in Tyler-Tallman Hall.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

10/12
North Main Street
Traffic Violation

Officer observed a Lexus fail to yield for a pedestrian in the crosswalk at the North Main Street-Depot Street intersection. Officer stopped the vehicle, and the driver was issued a verbal warning.

10/16
Martin Court
Fire

Officers and the Davidson Fire Department responded to a reported fire in the courtyard of Martin Court F. They located a fire on the walkway and grass area of the building. The fire was extinguished with no injury to persons and minor damage to the walkway. The incident is still under investigation.

10/17
Cunningham Fine Arts Building
Larceny

Victim advised that unknown person(s) removed a large white vinyl sign with red lettering from the telephone poles located on the west side of the Cunningham Fine Arts building. Estimated value of the sign is $100.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety