4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 2005

Photo courtesy of College Comm

This summer, two lounges in Martin Court F will be transformed into wheelchair-friendly apartments, as it is the only dorm with large enough bedrooms.

Peninsula China Bistro
704 987-2299
“Each entrée a masterpiece...” 
Heidi Edidin, “The Wandering Gourmet”

Fine Wines
Full Bar
Contemporary, Friendly Atmosphere
Reservations Accepted
Carryout
FREE DELIVERY (min $20)

LUNCH HOURS
Mon-Thurs 11:30-3:00
Fri & Sat 11:30-3:00
Sun 12:00-3:00

DINNER HOURS
Mon-Thurs 5:00-10:00
Fri & Sat 5:00-11:00
Sun 5:00-10:00

19906 N Cove Rd Cornelius
Crossland Centre at Jetton Village

Cogan: Costa Rica and Spain

The University Studies Abroad Consortium, with programs in 24 countries, allows students to master languages and study disciplines — including business, fine arts, and history — at distinguished, overseas schools. Soak up the vibrant culture and be transformed by the experience of living in a foreign land.

- Summer, semester, and yearlong programs
- Wide range of academic courses
- Internships
- Language classes at all levels
- Field trips and tours
- Small classes
- University credit
- Scholarships
- Housing

UNIVERSITY STUDIES ABROAD CONSORTIUM

ADA, continued from page 1

worth of repairs needed, I don’t see how you can say that’s acceptable.” Holthouser said that institutions are required to devote no more than 20% of the total cost of a renovation project to accessibility improvements but added that Davidson goes “above and beyond” that minimum obligation. He added that since 1994, the College has committed $200,000-$400,000 of its yearly capital budget, in addition to dollars raised through the Campaign, to “accessibility improvements” in campus buildings and site work.

The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the primary federal law protecting the rights of the disabled, requires that “public accommodations” such as Davidson make renovated facilities “readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities” but only to the “maximum extent feasible.” The college does not have to initiate accessibility improvements unless they are already engaged in a building project, or are asked to do so by a disabled individual who does not have equal access to existing infrastructure. Individual requests for improvements must be granted only if they are “readily achievable,” meaning they are “easily accomplishable and able to be carried out without much difficulty or expense.”

Bray-Merrell said, “When an institution takes on a renovation project, then the law requires that certain components of the renovation include accessibility changes, and so those things in the audit that were identified as hindrances or problems would be taken care of in these [future] renovations.”

The college confirmed plans to transform a lounge in Martin Court F into a wheelchair-friendly studio apartment in early February because existing senior apartment bedrooms are too narrow to accommodate some wheelchairs. The administration approved the transformation of a second Martin Court F lounge on March 29.

Stevens, who was born with cerebral palsy and moves around campus in a wheelchair, expressed frustration with the administration, saying it had moved only slowly to address many of her concerns. She cited in particular her struggle to secure a room in the senior apartments for the next academic year. According to Stevens, it took the administration approximately four months to agree to perform the renovations that would make the second Martin Court F lounge into a wheelchair-accessible apartment.

Bray-Merrell said that because the space that will be renovated is a lounge, not an existing apartment, this represents “a significant change at a significant expense.”By the time Stevens was informed of their decision, the housing lottery had passed, leaving her with no roommate. Bray-Merrell, citing confidentiality laws and college policy, declined to discuss “specific students’ conversations and situations,” but said that RLO would permit any student who wished to move in with Stevens, even if that student had already secured another room in the housing lottery. She added that it was not until the beginning of February that the administration “had a detailed understanding” of the problems with the senior apartments. 

“For an institution that plans pretty far ahead its summer work projects and the budgets for those summer work projects, and for an institution that is responsible for weighing the needs of all 1700 students on campus, I think to go from identifying the problem in February to committing the resources by March is lightning speed,” Bray-Merrell said. Holthouser said that the renovations to the two lounges in F would cost about $30,000 each. Two new sidewalks that the school plans to install this summer - one across the lawn behind Vail Commons and the other from the hill behind the union to Martin Court F - will cost a total of $125,000. These sidewalks are being installed to increase the access of individuals in wheelchairs to Patterson Court and the Senior Apartments. 

Park McArthur ’06 will be living in the other renovated Martin Court F apartment. “I realize that many of the people who make Davidson operate are here to serve the students, and this is an amazing thing,” he said. “Yes, advocacy for change or alteration often falls on the shoulders of students - and this can be exhausting and frustrating - but as students who live on a campus that is still not wholly accessible, we are obviously the ones who know best what we need and what changes to make. Learning to advocate for oneself is also a valuable skill - and college is a good time to learn it.” 

President of SigEp fraternity Adam Sperduto ’06 said that the administration was “helpful and understanding” when his fraternity asked the school to build a ramp to the basement of the SigEp house in order to make it accessible to a member who used a wheelchair. Although the ramp could not be built because of the proximity of high voltage power lines buried beside the house, the administration offered to build a lift to the basement. “It is clear to me that the school would like to provide assistance and find a way to fix our problem, there have just been some obstacles to get over first,” Sperduto said. “I also would like to say that after we requested a ramp to the basement of the house, I was very happy to see that one was built at PiKa as the house was still under construction from its scheduled renovation. I was glad to see the school taking steps to avoid the problem and provide wheelchair access to the basement of another house.” 

Sperduto added that he would like the school to purchase another wheelchair accessible van or bus for the motorpool and “be proactive in searching out and solving problems before they occur.” Five to six percent of students at Davidson have a disability of some sort; and 12 of these students have physical limitations or sensory impairments.