THE DAVIDSONIAN

HUMOR

PERSPECTIVEZ _ WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2005

Staff Editorial: Give Me A Break

Royce Tracy
Yowl Editor

It’s hard enough as it is to write for the Yowl. With all the pressure to “be funny” every issue, it’s difficult to come up with new material each week that can speak to the entire student body, without also personally offending anyone. Last year, however, the Residence Life Office decided to make our jobs here at the Yowl even more difficult.

Normally, RLO is highly appreciated in the Yowl office. Their inefficiency and unpopular regulations make for easy satire. In fact, 75 percent of the time when we're running low on material we end up writing some sort of article on RLO, just because it’s the easy way out. The organization is that unpopular.

In a change in policy, starting this fall semester the substance-free halls were split up into different halls amongst different dorms, so that there was no longer a “Sub-Free” dorm. We here at the Yowl fought this policy as it was on the drawing board, but to no avail. The policy change passed and we were left to contemplate the repercussions of this decision over a round of Jack Daniels and a game of snooker in the smoking section of O’Grady’s Tavern.

Our main complaint was that this policy change has made our already difficult jobs even more so. Because we can no longer just reference a dorm, say Watts for example, and recall in the readers’ minds the stereotypes that come with substance-free housing, it has made jokes concerning substance-free living all the more difficult. For instance, in last week’s Yowl, we wanted to make a joke that the number five girl on our list, who had a good personality, also chose to live in substance-free housing. We went ahead and put her residence down as the Watts dormitory for the benefit of upperclassmen, but I’m sure the joke slipped past the freshmen.

Now, in order to play off of a sub-free stereotype we have to learn each year which freshmen halls are designated substance-free. Frankly, we’re too lazy to do that kind of research. Even if we were to slave through miles of RLO records to find it out, none of the other upperclassmen would have any clue as to which halls were sub-free, so the joke would still fall flat. Substance-free jokes are one of the staples of the Yowl. RLO has brutally and cold-heartedly ripped that staple away from us. I do, however, look forward to working more with the organization in the future.

Freshmen Yet to Add Fifteen

Wrasslin’ With Words

HARRY GREENE

Much to the delight of myself and the other upperclassmen guys, the recently added ’09 class of Davidson girls are still, in fact, skinny. I don’t know about you, but I’m pumped about this. I’m so pumped I could smash my keyboard over my knee and then stomp the pieces into the room below.

In my history class the other day I heard some senior girls whining about the new freshmen girls sitting in the front row. This one was like, “That girl is so skinny she could use dental floss as toilet paper.” Then she shoved four pieces of chocolate cake down her throat. I think those upperclassmen girls are just jealous because they can’t cut weight like the new girls. I mean I know what it’s like trying to drop a weight class overnight so you don’t have to wrestle against the state champ and can instead cream some tool with glasses. That takes both determination and gumption, and for that I respect them. They know what it’s like to run 18 miles in a saran wrap sweat suit.

I was talking with my frat brother, Jeb, the other day down at the house and he was talking about the new girls too. He said, “I really like skinny girls, and the young ones are definitely the best.” We totally called it on him though because he’s never hooked up with a skinny girl or a freshman, only that one girl Amanda...whatsherface.

All of us signed up on the facebook.com too, just so we could get all the new girls’ pictures over the summer. Steve even has a screensaver set up that cycles through the skinny girls’ pictures, displaying a new one everyTen seconds. One girl didn’t put her real picture though, but instead had a picture of Enrique Iglesias. Still, that movie looked good. I’m excited for court parties this year too. One of my favorite things to do down at the court is get drunk and yell at girls. I mix it up a bit, but I tend to call all of them 174-pounders. Now, I can tell them that they’re in the 125 weight class, take my shirt off, and try to fight them. Eventually though, I imagine that the “freshman 15” will get them. If they’re not constantly working out and getting swoll like me, then the high caloric intake of Commons food, beer, and upperclassmen guys will take over. And unfortunately, unlike the Kodiak bear, they aren’t insulating their bodies for winter. My philosophy is going to be to enjoy it while it lasts, though, starting with First Night Down. I mean they’re still skinny now. This weekend is going to be more extreme than that time I dislocated that guy’s shoulder and then pretended like I was mountain biking over his writhing body. My only regret is that I didn’t apply to be an RA.

SKETCHY STEVE

I’m pretty much the ladies' man around here. Between my good looks, my charming personality, and my slick ride, I pretty much have the pick of any chick on campus—which isn’t saying much because most of the girls here aren’t my type. Still, I sack up, do what I gotta do, keep it real, and stay fly. And I don’t really have much competition, because so many of the guys here have no idea what chicks want. I’m a nice guy, so I'll let all of you clueless guys in on some of my tricks so maybe you can get a little tail. If you take my advice, I promise you won’t be spending your weekends anymore playing your unregistered version of Snood alone in your dorm room. Here’s the deal: freshmen girls are the only way to go. They haven’t been around the block yet (until I’m done with them). But unless you’ve got my goods, it isn’t easy picking them up. So, you have to think outside the box. It has gotten easier than it used to be, with the invention of TheFacebook.com. Back in the old days, you had to somehow find a hard copy of the real Facebook. But thanks to the World Wide Web, you can start researching months in advance. It helps a lot too, because laying the groundwork is the most important thing to do. I mean, make sure that you start very early in requesting a hot little sister; remember the 70 percent rule. A classic strategy is to spot a hot freshman chick and then do a little research to find out where she lives. Then you go up to her room, knock on the door, and say that you lived in that room freshman year and want to look around for old time’s sake. She won’t know that Third Rich was never a guy’s hall. Once you're in the room, it’s golden. Lay down on the futon to see if it’s comfortable. Check out her DVD collection. Show off your freestyle rapping skills. The choice is yours. Remember, unless she threatens to call the police or RLO, you don’t have to leave her room. Another trick of the trade is to fail Davidson 101 every year by missing one class so you can take it again with the new freshmen. That way, you can be the wise upperclassman, which is an awesome position for picking up chicks. You get them to trust you, and the next thing you know they’re walking from Sentelle to Belk on Sunday morning wearing their clothes from last night. Even if you’re not as hot as me, there’s no reason that you shouldn’t be scoring freshmen ladies by the hall full. And, if you need to, you can always commute to UNCC, or even Central Piedmont Community College.

What piece of communal property is your favorite to destroy around campus?

Red Bikes 47%
Green Chairs 23%
Signs 38%
Lamp Posts 2%

“I like throwing the red bikes off of the 3rd floor in F, because they’re the most expensive!” 
Jane Merrymaker ’06 ~ Nashville, TN

“Smashing signs is great. But watch those splinters!” 
Professor James D. Bott ’67 ~ Boise, ID