_ THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2005 11

Fahrenheit 9/11 and the ideal politician

I hope Michael Moore doesn’t get discouraged. Sure, he was forced to eat crow over several very public and very self-assured statements he made before the 2004 election about how his film Fahrenheit 9/11 would rally the masses and sweep George W. Bush out of power. But I think his movie has some incredible insights into current American politics and the idea of leadership—though not for any of the reasons Moore intended.

The classic image from Fahrenheit 9/11 would have to come from the infamous scene in which President Bush is captured on camera sitting still and looking confused for several minutes after receiving word that a plane had hit the World Trade Center, followed by another. This scene resonated so intensely with the left because to them it encapsulated the stupidity and incompetence of Bush as a president. I thought this reaction, while predictable, is largely unwarranted by the circumstances. Think back to where you were when you first heard that a plane had hit the World Trade Center. If you’re like me, and everyone else I know, you assumed it was an accident at first. Even when word came that a second plane hit, I think most of us were stunned into silence and confusion. Bush’s reaction did not demonstrate below-average intelligence; it was a completely ordinary response.

What really angers the Left is not that Bush is stupid. It’s that he’s not smarter than them, yet he’s the president. Contemporary liberal political philosophy requires leaders to be intellectual elites because it entrusts them with enormous responsibilities that require a high level of education and sophistication. The liberal politician, through social programs, environmental regulations, gun control, anti-smoking laws, and other ostensibly benevolent measures, is there to plan the lives of the citizenry for the better. To meet this enormous level of expectation, a government needs politicians that are members of the intellectual elite of the society. If he’s going to plan your life, a politician needs to be smarter than you, and know it. But Bush is no intellectual, nor does he claim to be. The scene from the film inspires so much loathing of the president among Democrats because it reveals him to be not someone above us, but one of us.

Here we reach at least one flaw in the liberal’s ideal of leadership. No matter how many academic degrees or how much knowledge a politician acquires, he’s still only human. This issue was at the heart of the Cold War-era debate between socialists and capitalists. The main champion of the role of government as enlightened planner was John Maynard Keynes, who argued that massive government intervention in the economy, as planned by technocrats, could remedy flaws in the market. The capitalist economist F.A. Hayek responded that centralized planners lacked the knowledge to improve upon the efficiency of the unplanned interactions of the multitude of actors in a free market and were much more likely to do harm than good. After the fall of the Berlin Wall revealed the undeniable evidence of the Soviet Union’s stunning failure to keep pace with the living standards and cultural vitality generated by capitalism, the winner of this debate was apparent.

Of course, we don’t have to choose between only absolute capitalism and absolute socialism. Contemporary liberals usually point to a European state like Sweden or the Netherlands, where the majority of the economy takes place in the private sector but is sharply restricted by state planning, as examples that the two systems can mix and produce greater social welfare for all. Whether this “third way” is better than a more laissez-faire system is an empirical and ideological debate that is yet to be settled. In the meantime, I tend to throw my hat in the laissez-faire ring because I think the European social democracies still rely too much on socialist ideas that elite bureaucrats know what’s better for individuals than individuals themselves. I can’t deny that Bush has taken many stances on issues like marriage that do not conform to the Hayekian ideal of limited government, but at least he doesn’t maintain an air of intellectual superiority and elitist paternalism. The same can’t be said of his critics.

Matt Bandyk, a junior political science major from Tampa, Fl., is the editor of the Perspectives section. Contact him at mabandyk@davidson.edu.

Don’t let your major define your reality

In the spring of my sophomore year, I suffered a temporary bout of insanity—I declared English as my major after taking only one class in the subject. Crazy, right? But at the time I felt justified because I was uneasy about my original plan to major in sociology. I was especially self-conscious about what people would think of me. “Sociology?!” they said. “Isn’t that really easy? But you’re smart!” I now take these comments with a grain of salt because I will not be defined by what I study. Does an economics major always converse in terms of opportunity cost and supply and demand? (Although, let’s face it; sometimes they do.) Or do all political science majors work for political campaigns and adorn their cars with Kerry or Bush stickers? No, certainly not.

I have found the Davidson sociology professors and courses provocative, interesting, and yes, useful. I major in sociology because it is what I am passionate about. And what does my major matter as long as I am passionate about it? In a society that often caters to laziness (case in point: shampoo and conditioner in one or the redial button), passion and a desire to do something well (even something others may call “easy”) is worth so much more than whatever it means to major in a particular subject.

But being passionate, or distinctive in any way, is hard. It is much easier to have others create your reality for you. Our consumer culture, for instance, has created for us a manufactured version of a normal reality. We see actors on TV and in the movies and mayAssume it is normal to be skinny and beautiful. So we then base our reality on someone else’s version of it.
AHRENDI GEORGI

How much of our reality, then, has been fed to us? And how much do we buy into it? When we decide what to wear in the morning, how often do we consider how cool everyone else will think our outfits are? Do you put on pointy shoes because they’re fashionable even if, like me, you can’t help but picture a witch riding a broom when you look at them?

We often do not even see real evil as real anymore. It is just a story we see on the news, or the plot of a crime show, or a horror movie. How often do we feel genuine sorrow for it? Does it take a movie like “Hotel Rwanda” before we can shed a tear for tragedies like the one in Rwanda in 1994? I was personally a little annoyed that Hollywood got to tug at my heartstrings for seven dollars, but the stories I had read about the genocide did not incite anything more than a frown. We should not have to pay to feel passionate nor should we submit to feeling numb as one story of murder, crime, war, and poverty follows the next on the evening news.

We should not feel compelled to march around like zombies in our pointy shoes and backwards baseball caps holding our majors displayed in front of us like in a mug shot. I can be a sociology major and still be a hard-working Davidson student. My religion major friends can study the Bible and not end up being preachers. And we can all find enough passion in our lives to refuse becoming numb to the world or a slave to approval.

Georgie Ahrendt is a junior sociology major from Columbia, S.C. Contact her at geahrendt@davidson.edu.

Hunter S. Thompson, R.I.P.
By JC Boyle
Staff Columnist

Hunter S. Thompson, the patron saint of subjectivity, the Duke of Gonzo, is dead, and with him his unique perspective and inimitable style. He was the Arthur Miller of America’s underbelly, and his place in the history of personality is secure because he was completely independent of convention, expectation, and the law. His niche was his alone, and the 1970s saw him make Gonzo Journalism into literary surrealism, giving his readers unforgettable images of fear and loathing, of decadence and depravity. His style was one not just of living but of writing. Thompson endowed every word with a sense of urgency and immediacy, and not just because he missed every deadline. Hyperbole was his most common literary device, and through it he wrote of things exactly as they were perceived. Ralph Steadman’s distorted, ink-stained drawings that accompanied most of his books symbolized Thompson’s vision of the truth—something to be revealed, in all its ugliness, through exaggeration. He stripped it of its beauty to expose the fact that it never had any.

In the realm of Gonzo, the Kentucky Derby was populated by men in white suits, constantly vomiting bourbon. Las Vegas could only be reached by passing through Bat Country, and once you were there, well, “Jesus, bad waves of paranoia, madness, fear and loathing—intolerable vibrations in this place.” Above all, it was a world where there was “no sympathy for the devil.” Everything was exposed as it should have been. The best evidence for this is in Thompson’s obituary of Richard Nixon, who for decades had served as his target and inspiration. “Read it and weep,” Thompson cautioned us, “for America has lost its Satan. Richard Nixon has gone home to Hell.”

Three weeks ago, America lost its prophet, a man whose brutal candor depicted the country as something from Dante, a place to be experienced only through a “horrible, slobbering sort of spastic stupor.” He kept his style in his personal letters, two volumes of which have been published, and he could make any quest romantic, be it a routine journalistic assignment turned drug-soaked odyssey, running for sheriff of Aspen on the Freak Power ticket, or arguing with the IRS. Though his last decade was spent in decline, having lost either the magic or the energy to sustain his adventures, it was his richest publication period, seeing the release of an early novel, two volumes of correspondence, and his memoirs. Except for the memoirs and a collection of sports columns, it was lacking in new material, probably due to the death of Nixon. George Bush was not as good a foil, but Thompson could still shower him with vitriol rivaling what he used to heap on Nixon.

The drugs had gotten to him. In a television interview with Tim Russert promoting Kingdom of Fear, he was nearly incoherent, and he let out a shriek at the frustration of being unable to remember a certain word. Yet it was still an incredible surprise to hear of his suicide. One would think that if he lived this long he would live forever. Like Keith Richards, Hunter Thompson should not have lasted into old age, but he outlived all his enemies, and many of his friends. Thompson was fond of using “May you live in interesting times,” that ancient Chinese curse, as an epigraph to his works, but to his career it was a blessing. He had a fortuitous birth year, since he came of age professionally in the time when he was most needed, the late 1960s and early 1970s. Journalism has moved in different directions since he changed it, and it is hard to imagine a new Duke of Gonzo in today’s vile climate, where pundits earn points through the viciousness of their vitriol and not its literary merit. He was an outlaw, and if, as Bob Dylan said and Thompson quoted, “to live outside the law, you must be honest,” he succeeded in every regard—blessing us with an uninhibited honesty, heightened through hyperbole and embellished in mood, exposing savagery and injustice with a fierce voice of unparalleled prose. America will miss him more than it knows.

JC Boyle is a freshman classics major from Atlanta, Ga. Contact him at jcboyle@davidson.edu.