10 PERSPECTIVES THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2005

Staff Editorial

Going with the Outsider

“I think SGA underestimates its own reach and it limits its reach.” As we contemplated this newspaper’s candidate endorsement for
the SGA presidential election, President Vagt’s words echoed in our minds. Davidson needs an SGA president that understands the capabilities
of the organization. More importantly, however, it needs someone who is ready and willing to extend these capabilities. The president
should be someone who will act on behalf of the students, not react. It should be someone who will fight
for the issues that are important to the student body — even those that have been exhausted before the administration
in the past — with confidence and passion, rather than conceding the fight as unattainable under the limits of the
SGA.

It is with this in mind that the Davidsonian editorial board endorses Ryan Arnold ’06 in the SGA presidential race.
Monday’s forum, moderated by this editorial board, gave each of the candidates — Mr. Arnold, Christina Boye ’06, Sam Spencer
’07, and Francois Trappey ’06 — an opportunity to explain their positions on issues important to the student body, from
substance-free housing to ATC allocations to pushing back our early spring break. In addition, the candidates outlined their planned methods
of leadership.

While some might argue that positions on the issues rarely varied, differences in each candidate’s approach to SGA leadership stood
out clearly. Both Mr. Trappey and Mr. Arnold conveyed the proactive vision essential for an SGA president. Mr. Trappey’s impressive
record as the current vice president complemented his clear comprehension of the issues. His articulation on ATC allocations and the
restructuring of SGA committees, among other things, reflected the extensive knowledge gained in his three years as a member of
the organization. Yet at times Mr. Trappey seemed confined about issues facing the SGA based on his experiences. His answers
cited the limitations of the tangled and disjunctured SGA bureaucracy, and plans for accomplishing student priorities extended only as far
as the existing reaches of the government.

We need a president who will go further, and Mr. Arnold clearly established himself as the candidate most anxious to
do so. He brings some much-needed energy and optimism from the outside. While Mr. Arnold has no previous SGA experience,
he repeatedly emphasized his desire to test the limits of SGA’s reach, especially in regard to issues that many in
the SGA have given up on. Some might say that winning on these issues is impossible. People once said that
about getting cable in our dorm rooms. Those are not the people we want running our government. The SGA needs
to stop underestimating itself and its ability to affect meaningful change on this campus. It doesn’t take experience to understand
that.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX LIBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel

Managing Editor
Mike Giglio

News Editors
Liz Barry, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia

Perspectives Editor
Matt Bandyk

Arts & Living Editors
Elizabeth Burkhead & Sara Sams

Yow! Editor
Brendan Parets

Sports Editors
Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrory

Photography Editor
Dorsett Clark

Business Manager
Nick Horton

Advertising & Circulation Managers
Page Persons & Janelle Milanes

Letters to the Editor

Be respectful of the Code when dining

The Honor Code states, “Stealing is the intentional taking of any property without right or permission.” The amount of property
stolen is irrelevant to whether or not someone is guilty of an Honor Code violation. I am in no way
advocating a kind of fear-driven system that petrifies us so that we are afraid to take a quarter off the
ground. Yet the Honor System does extend beyond the classroom and the Court to all facets of life at Davidson.
I am convinced that the vast majority of problems in Commons and the Café occur on account of students’ ignorance
of official Dining Service policies, not because of our intent to steal. Therefore, my aim in writing this letter is
to inform students both of the details of such policies and of problems which have occurred recently.

First, there have been instances of students eating in Commons without having swiped their CatCard. Eating a meal in Commons
without swiping is an act of stealing and therefore a violation of the Honor Code. I do not believe that
the Commons staff should have to observe vigilantly all students who enter Commons. There should be the same kind of
trust in the dining room as there is in the classroom. However, being that several employees have seen students eat
without paying, we must earn back their trust.

Second, students are not permitted to take large quantities of food from Commons. One of the privileges that we enjoy
is the opportunity to eat outside while getting food from Commons. However, students should not provide food for those who
have not paid. Dining Services presently has a policy that only those who come to Commons to eat may stay,
but the situation changes when outside (for example, if a student walks to the sophomore apartments and sits down with
a friend outside). The point of these rules: take only what you can eat.

Third, there have been occasions of students leaving the Café without having paid. In such cases, the students sometimes return
to pay, and other times do not. I understand that honest mistakes happen: it is possible to leave theCafé without
paying for an item, remember your oversight, and then pay for the item. However, it is not acceptable to leave
the Café intentionally without paying for your food or drink. In response, some will likely say that their food comes
out at different times. So, why can they not leave the Café with some of their food, and then pay
for all of it later? Purchasing your items each time you leave diminishes the possibility of forgetting to pay. It
also allows the staff to be more attentive to their jobs and less watchful of those who come in and
out of the Café. If you have any questions regarding the specific policies of Dining Services, Dee Phillips would be
glad to answer them for you. We need to protect the spirit of the Honor Code, inside and outside of
the classroom. No one wants a system of nitpicky rules, nor is that what I am promoting. Rather, common sense
will serve us well when using the Dining Services.

Chris Knowles ’05
Former Honor Council Chair

CoHo alive and well

In the past few weeks since Zach Kazior’s article about CoHo’s struggles to maintain our presence on campus, CoHo has
already seen drastic improvements. We are officially out of debt both to the school and to our former Treasurer, Anne
Pearlstein ’06, thanks to the membership board bills of our 26 house members, including our freshmen and transfers. Our committees
have started concocting all sorts of fun ideas for social gatherings, like our housewarming party this Sunday at 9 p.m.
to watch The Simpson’s episodes and eat ice cream. And our pet fish have returned to their home in our
fireplace aquarium and are enjoying our remodeled digs as much as fish with three-second memories can. We are in the
process of raising funds via T-shirt sales at www.joberison.com. There are some sweet T-shirts there, including an “I Heart Campus
Police” shirt that Chief Fountain Walker himself has ordered. Orders must be submitted by Valentine’s Day. At the same time,
we are using our house events to help define us and open up the house to let people get to
know us (i.e. “CoHo is... Movies” Wednesdays at 10 p.m. or “CoHo is... knitting” Fridays at 3 p.m). We would
like to thank Dean Bray-Merrell, Donna Hamm, Joy Hamm, the e-board of Rusk, and President Vagt for their tireless support,
help, and guidance. In short, my friends, it looks like CoHo may not be such a question mark on campus
anymore. So come and check us out.

Aubrey Groves ’06
CoHo President

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor. Please e-mail submissions of less than 250 words to davidsonian@davidson.edu. We reserve the
right to edit for content, brevity, and grammar.

A Modest Proposal: Keep Southern-free housing
By TREY SKINNER AND SCOTT BUCKHOUT
Guest Columnists

As students from the North, we are concerned to hear that SGA is considering altering Davidson’s Southern-free housing option. The
prospect of good Northerners being forced to live next to, or even with, Southerners makes us sick. It’s almost as
if the Civil War was all for naught. SGA forgets the principles of self-isolation and exclusivity that this country was
founded on and that our fathers fought and died to defend. They forget that Davidson tries so hard to make
communities that avoid unnecessary mixing. This potential policy change is an affront to the Davidson way. It’s bad enough that
we have to sit next to them in class. Always coming in just as the bell is ringing, walking at
an unnecessarily leisurely pace, “sir” and “ma’am”-ing everyone along the way, reeking of moonshine and fried okra. This just must
be part of the college experience. At least we can rest assured that after we graduate we will never have
to deal with Southerners again. As Northerners who are dedicated to living out the principles that the North stands for,
we are upset. We just prefer a different atmosphere. We feel that we belong in the dorms closer to the
library and tennis courts. Southerners don’t read: Why would they want to be near the academic center of campus? I’m
sure the Southerners actually enjoy being down the hill; it’s closer to nature. It reminds them of their rural plantation
homes and the fields they used to harvest when they were young. Also, we hate listening to songs like “Sweet
Home Alabama” and “Dixie” being blasted at late hours of the night, on weekdays no less. Of course, we have
heard of some Southerners living in Southern-free housing. It’s no secret. One simply needs to walk down a Southern-free hall
and listen to what is happening behind the closed doors...banjos, fiddles, and square dancing! Trey once went in a Southern-free
bathroom and saw a Southerner hooking up with his sister! This kind of stuff should stay off our halls. That
trash may fly in that lech they call Richardson, but not in Little. No sir! We strongly encourage SGA to
keep Southern-free housing. We Northerners require a quieter, more civilized, and unadulterated dorm. It’s hard enough to succeed academically at
Davidson. It would be even harder if we were forced to live with Southerners.

Trey Skinner is a sophomore religion major from Westport, CT, and Scott Buckhout is a sophomore from Cincinnati, OH. Contact
them at trskinner@davidson.edu and scbuckhout@davidson.edu.
