THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

CCRL reforms risk management policy

By BLEVIN SHELNUTT
Senior Staff Writer

On Tuesday, April 12, the Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) convened to discuss the Alcohol and Drug Policy Review, which was written by a group of students and staff commissioned to revise current drug and alcohol policies at Davidson. CCRL members spent the majority of Tuesday’s meeting deliberating over one of the Task Force’s seven recommendations—a proposed reformation of risk management policies.

Rather than basing risk management requirements on party type, such as open parties, impromptus, guest-list or date functions, the Task Force proposed to base risk management requirements on attendance. A student Risk Manager would be required when party attendance reached 30 people; an additional student Risk Manager, ID Checker, and bartender would be required when attendance reached 60 people; and a police officer would be required when attendance reached 80 people.

Many student CCRL members expressed concern that costs of additional officers would burden smaller houses and limit their ability to hold less significant social gatherings, such as brother- or sisterhoods. In order to offset these costs, the Task Force agreed to an amendment which allows the student Risk Managers, ID-checker, and bartender to be members of the host organization. The house may look to its own members to work parties rather than pay members from other houses.

Director of Residence Life and Associate Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano chairs the Alcohol and Drug Policy Review Task Force. Marsicano suggested a possible sanction for future house alcohol violations would be to require the house to have party workers from other organizations.

Other CCRL members stressed the need for a distinction between members-only and open parties and pointed out how the presence of a police officer would affect the intimate atmosphere of a brother- or sisterhood, for example. “To be perfectly honest,” said Meghan O’Grady ’06, “it would be awkward for a cop to be present during a sisterhood.”

However, faculty and staff representatives expressed reluctance to allow an exception from policy for members-only parties in fear that students would take advantage of the lack of supervision and the gathering would morph into a much wilder party than planned. “We don’t want to clamp down,” said Economics Professor and Task Force member Fred Smith. “We don’t want to drive you off-campus. We don’t want you not having fun. But we don’t want you dead.”

Ultimately, student and faculty CCRL members compromised and agreed that while student Risk Managers would be required for members-only parties, police officers would not. With these amendments, CCRL approved the Task Force’s recommended reformation of risk management procedure.

Marsicano, along with other members of the Task Force, emphasized that the Task Force’s objective was not to make it more difficult for students to have fun, but rather to keep the parties on-campus and safe. “The goal of this policy is to get students to plan ahead,” she said.

Briefly

Charlotte Symphony Orchestra Performance
The Charlotte Symphony Orchestra will have a concert on April 21 at 8 p.m. in the Duke Family Performance Hall. Tickets are $5 for students and $15 general admission.

Disability Rights Production
“A Thirst,” an original production about disability rights, will be performed on April 23 at 8 p.m. and April 24 at 2 p.m. in Duke Family Performance Hall. Tickets are $5.

Classical Indian Music
A South Indian vocal recital will be held on April 24 from 2 to 5 p.m. in Tyler Tallman Hall. Tickets are $15 for adults, $12 for seniors, and free for students.

Biology Lectures
APRIL 20, 2005

Sophomores Robert Stewart, Sarah Bogue, and Page Persons enjoy the Union Board-sponsored “After Midnight” program on Halloween.

Union Board provides students with variety of activities

By KATE GILLESPIE
Senior Staff Writer

Students who are not interested in Davidson’s party scene often go to the Union on Friday and Saturday nights to watch concerts and movies and participate in a variety of activities. Yet many students are unaware that these alternatives to Patterson Court are the responsibility of one large, dedicated group of students, the Union Board.

“Students don’t even realize that the Union Board is behind these events,” said Union Board president Steven Gentile ’06. “They just know that something cool is going on in the Union, but every event in the Union has to be approved by the Union Board.”

These events include concerts, films, student performances, Spring Frolics, coffeehouses, and various freshman orientation activities. The Union Board is also behind the annual Artist Series, which this year brought the Koresh Dance Company, the comedy troupe Chicago City Limits, the Bruce Wood Dance Company, and the Poncho Sanchez Latin Jazz Band to the Duke Family Performance Hall.

“Our mission is to provide student activities that are diverse and fun for the entire student body and give students something to do on Friday and Saturday nights,” said Union Board vice president Katherine Cox ’07. “We reach out not only to the student body but also to the community because there are no other events that bring professional dance and music to Davidson.”

The Union Board consists of a president and vice president elected by the student body, as well as 15 appointed students who serve as chairs of the Union Board’s various committees. Although this group makes the executive decisions, the Union Board also relies on the students who volunteer to serve on the different committees at the annual fall activities fair.

“I had 96 people on the email list for my concert committee,” Cox said. “Some people are more involved than others. Thirty-one people helped out at the Black-Eyed Peas concert.”

The mission of the Union Board has expanded in recent years and continues to change based on the interests students express. “It really depends on the feelings of the board and the students themselves,” Cox said. “Concert tastes change for one. The Magical Mystery Tour is something students used to be excited about, but now they’re not. We’re going to cut that out and use the money for something else.”

This year the Board’s most popular events were the showings of the films “Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind,” “Garden State,” and “Hotel Rwanda,” each of which drew over 200 people to the 900 Room. The Union Board planned for over 500 people to attend each of the three After Midnights they sponsored. Paint Your Own Pottery night, pancake breakfasts, and the Dukhs concert were also popular with students.

“We pride ourselves on not being a suitcase school where people don’t leave on the weekends,” Cox said. “Part of the reason for that is the Union Board.”

The Board’s budget of over $200,000, which comprises over half of the student activities budget, allows them to sponsor these events and to aid other student organizations in financing events.

See Union, page 5

---

Excellent Employment Opportunity

Come join our team at THE PENINSULA YACHT CLUB! The club is looking to employ persons for the wait-staff. Individuals applying for this position should be team players that have high energy. Those with experience will be given preference. Come by the club and apply in person:

THE PENINSULA YACHT CLUB
18501 HARBOR LIGHT BLVD.
CORNELIUS, NC. 28031

Further questions can be directed to: 704-892-9858