THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2005

Patterson Court houses heavily involved in service

By KATIE PFEIFFER
Senior Staff Writer

The Patterson Court houses are sponsoring service projects this semester to support community causes and respond to domestic and international
issues. Many of the houses have raised money for Hurricane Katrina relief efforts. Patterson Court Council (PCC) participated in Beads
for the Bayou to raise money for hurricane victims. Court members collected donations for beads during the alumni football game
on October 1. PCC raised over $800 in two hours. Connor raised over $500 through a car wash held for
the same purpose.

Phi Delta Theta participated in Beads for the Bayou and Operation Backpacks, a project sponsored by the Community Service Office
that collected backpacks filled with supplies for children who were victims of the hurricane. SigEp sponsored the Court-wide Fraternity Brother
Auction on September 14 and collected over $2000. Fraternity brothers offered to sing, clean, cook, and read bedtime stories in
exchange for donations for hurricane relief. “The guys had a lot of fun with the whole project and it was
neat to see how such a fun night could help with something so serious as Hurricane Katrina,” said SigEp service
chair Rob Heppenstall ’08.

Patterson Court also supports other causes. This semester, SigEp will build a house with Habitat for Humanity, sort clothing at
the Crisis Assistance Ministry in Charlotte, and manage the Turkey Trot, a 5K fundraiser race to benefit the Leukemia and
Lymphoma Society. CoHo sponsored a climbing fundraiser from October 17 to 23 on the DO climbing wall and raised several
hundred dollars for the Hind’s Feet Farm (HFF). HFF is a facility for the care of brain trauma patients founded
by Davidson alumnus Marty Foil. Participants in the service project climbed the equivalent of Mount Everest, a total of 1579
individual climbs. “CoHo is excited to be involved with HFF in its development stages,” said CoHo service chair Tammy Ivins
’07. “We are interested in regularly sponsoring the Mt. Everest Climb in the fall semester.”

Rusk will also sponsor a service project with Hinds Feet Farm this Friday. Rusk has taken on a series of
individual service projects this semester. “We want to emphasize direct service over fundraising because the girls in our house enjoy
making a direct contribution to our communities,” said Rusk service chair Kate Gillespie ’08. Other Rusk service activities include working
at the Crisis Assistance Ministry with SigEp, volunteering at Ada Jenkins, caring for children at Florence Crittenton to provide mothers
with free time, and placing luminaries around campus on December 1 in recognition of World AIDS Day.

In anticipation of its annual Red and Black Ball in February, members of Warner Hall will be babysitting for professors
and the community during the next few weeks. Babysitting profits, as well as money from an art auction next semester,
will go towards both an AIDS organization in Charlotte and a worldwide AIDS foundation. Warner service co-chair Elizabeth Berndt ’07
emphasized the fundraiser benefit’s mission “to promote awareness, acknowledge the international AIDS crisis, and to help worthy AIDS organizations as
best we can.” Last year’s ball raised $10,000; this year, Warner hopes to raise a total of $12,000.

Alpha Phi Alpha began the school year by helping a Davidson employee move into her house and took part in
the Life Walk in September to help the Mooresville Pregnancy Center. In October, Alpha Phi Alpha participated in A Voteless
People is a Hopeless People service project. “[A Voteless People is a Hopeless People] is a national project of the
Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc., in which members assist in getting peopleRegistered to vote and promote political awareness,” said service
chair Anthony Brown ’08. “We registered about 12 people and also had some time to raise funds for the MLK
Memorial Project.” Alpha Phi Alpha also volunteered at Ada Jenkins and the Boys and Girls Club and did fundraising for
the Rosa and Raymond Parks Institute for Self Development. Alpha Phi Alpha plans to organize a Men’s Health event and
a leadership discussion on November 2 and 5, respectively. They will also volunteer at a soup kitchen and promote literacy
as part of a Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools program. In October, Turner participated in the Charlotte Diabetes Walk, which took place in
downtown Charlotte. Kappa Sigma organized a canned food drive in September and collected more than 1,000 cans from people affiliated
with the college and the Davidson community. Kappa Sigma will also raise money for the National Multiple Sclerosis Society (NMSS)
by selling MS bracelets, holding a raffle and silent auction, and holding a Kappa Sig Brother Auction. Connor is focusing
on breast cancer awareness this semester to prepare for its Bosom Buddies project in the spring. A second car wash
was held in October; Connor also participated with Fiji in Race for the Cure to support the Susan G. Komen
Breast Cancer Foundation. Connor is also sponsoring Hope Healing And Progress In Niger (HHAPIN) to raise money for women who
have undergone difficult labor while giving birth and need fistula operations to repair a hole in the bladder wall due
to prolonged labor. Usually, the need for these operations is a result of the mother’s young age. On November 18,
a urogynecologist will come to Davidson to talk about the efforts of doctors who travel to Africa to perform fistula
operations. The evening will consist of a lecture, stories, and slides to educate those who attend about the issue. The
benefit will include a jazz band, cash bar, and dessert bar, provided in part by PCC funds. Eating houses will
be making desserts for the event as well as selling tickets at $7 for students and $15 for adults. Bracelets
made by the women who have had fistula operations will also be sold. “Leading up to this event is awareness;
afterwards is involvement,” said Connor president Amanda King ’06. Doctors who are involved in the project are planning their next
trip to Africa in January, and King says that with the money and concern raised during the benefit “we will
do as much as we can for the upcoming trip.” The money raised in support of these women will provide
mosquito nets to prevent malaria while they remain in hospitals, assist the children of these women, and fund doctors to
travel to Africa to perform the operations. HHAPIN profits will also seek to immerse women into society post-surgery. They will
fund an irrigation project that assigns plots of land to women who can then make a sustainable living by cultivating
them. All the eating houses are working together to raise money and awareness for HHAPIN. “We'd like to see a
lot of participation [in HHAPIN] from students and faculty,” said PCC service chair Chris Dwyer ’07.
