14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2005

Ten seniors to play last career game Saturday

By MARK CLAYTON
Staff Writer

Football teams always talk about family. The players see their teammates as brothers, and Davidson football is no different. This Saturday, the Davidson football family is losing 10 of its brothers. The 1 p.m. kickoff at Georgetown will conclude the careers of Yeatts Anderson '06, Alex Arinsmier '06, Ryan Arnold '06, Ricky Childers '06, Elliott Cutler '06, John Green '06, Preston Moore '06, Brian Purcell '06, Jake Rice '06, and Jordan Sundheim '06.

One thing that sets this group of seniors apart from any other class in recent years is the adversity that they have been through together. Many changes have taken place over the four years during which these 'Cats have donned the red and black. They have experienced the increased competition level of the Davidson football schedule, in which the Wildcats removed Division III schools to add 1-AA scholarship and Patriot League teams. This group has also dealt with the transition of a new head coach in their senior season. All of these players were recruited by the old regime, but they still led the charge of the Tripp Merritt era.

Most impressive is the fact that these men carried the torch for their class. When these seniors came into preseason camp as freshmen in 2002, they were 10 of 23 total first-years. As a result of multiple career-ending injuries and personal decisions, only 10 of those 23 will travel to D.C. on Saturday. This group might not have brought home a PFL Championship in their years or an undefeated season like the 10-0 'Cats in 2002, but they never gave up. There are no T.O.'s or Keyshawns in this group; they played together, and that is what continued to drive the team.

"We played for each other because I knew the guy next to me was doing the same thing," said Moore, who had an impact season with two sacks, two interceptions, and a touchdown.

One Wildcat who played extremely well was linebacker Arinsmier. His career tackling mark right now sits at 262, just 12 tackles behind his mentor "the Godfather" Jim Carney '02. "Being a captain, I tried to lead this team week in and week out; if I can pass Carn's tackling mark, well that's just gravy," said Arinsmier.

This class will leave behind a few traditions that they have started as well. Fan favorite Purcell and sure-handed Rice will hand down the leadership positions of TWO after Saturday. TWO, which stands for Team Wide Out, has lived up to the name as Davidson has profited from going to the air all season long. Rice has caught 15 passes for 299 yards and four touchdowns, and Purcell hauled in 13 balls for 123 yards and one touchdown before a season-ending collarbone surgery.

On the other side of the ball, co-captain Childers and cornerback Anderson will also be handing over the reins as Air Traffic Controllers. Childers and Anderson have combined for 11 pass break-ups and two interceptions this season. Additionally, these men have led the defense in their pursuit of being the No. 1 defense in all of Division 1-AA in interceptions.

Williamson leads 'Cats to victory at The Citadel

By ERIK SWANSON
Staff Writer

With the Southern Conference season nearing its conclusion, the volleyball team entered last weekend with matches against two teams at different ends of the conference spectrum and split matches with College of Charleston and The Citadel. The Wildcats hoped to improve their 8-6 conference record and build momentum for the conference tournament with away matches against the Cougars and the Bulldogs, the top- and bottom-ranked teams in the SoCon.

At Charleston on Saturday, the Wildcats fell behind early in all three games, losing 3-0 against the SoCon regular season champions. After dropping game one 30-16, Davidson fell behind 10-4 to start game two before rallying to narrow the margin to 15-12. The Wildcats were unable to maintain theirMomentum, however, dropped in the second game, losing 30-19. Game three was another close one as the ’Cats trailed only 16-15 at the midway point. The Cougars pulled away in the end, though, closing out the match with a 30-23 victory in game three. Liz Williamson ’07 led the Wildcats in kills for the match with 12, while Kate Pierucci ’08 registered a team-high 15 digs. College of Charleston secured first place in conference play in the SoCon with the win.

After the loss on Saturday, Davidson hoped to close out the weekend with a split as the team faced The Citadel on Sunday. The Citadel entered the match 0-16 in the Southern Conference, including a 3-0 loss to Davidson earlier this season. The Wildcats won each of the first two games by a 30-21 score before struggling to close out game three. In the second game, Tierney Hodge ’09 gave the ’Cats a late advantage by serving six consecutive points and sealing the game for her team. With Davidson leading 19-15 in the third game, the Bulldogs went on an 11-1 run and ultimately took the game 30-25. Needing only one more game to close out the match, the ’Cats took control of game four after struggling early. Tied 10-10, the Wildcats pulled away with a 14-5 run, closing out the match with a 30-18 win. Williamson again led the team in kills with 24, one shy of her career high, while also registering 12 digs for a double-double. The weekend split leaves the Wildcats at 13-17 on the season, 9-7 in the conference. The team will finish up the regular season with two home matches this weekend, a Friday match at 7 p.m. against Furman and Saturday’s Senior Day match against Wofford, the home finale for captain and lone senior Erin Balak ’06.

Arnold and Culter both came to Davidson from the state of Ohio, and they have held down the Davidson offensive line for nearly four years. Culter, from powerhouse St. X high school in Cincinnati, and Arnold, our school president, have been thrust into starting positions from very early in their careers and will shut the door on Saturday. “We knew it was going to be a battle each game, and we tried to achieve warrior status every Saturday,” said Culter. Green and Sundheim have been mixing it up in the backfield ever since they got here from Mississippi and California, respectively. Green is a powerful runner who loves to grind it out, while Sundheim got most of his touches on receptions and notched his first career touchdown at Austin Peay during his first year at Davidson. Both backs will be missed.

If the seniors' results at this summer’s combine don’t shock the scouts, the careers of these 10 players will be over. “I doubt that years from now I will recall the score of a particular game, or a certain catch I made. I am positive, however, that I'll always remember afternoons in the locker room, laughing on bus rides, off-season training, and very, very long Commons meals,” said Ryan Arnold ’06. These men can look back at their careers and be proud. All 10 came from different high school programs and various levels of success, but all will graduate as brothers and as ’Cats.

NEW LISTING! NEWPORT PROPERTIES™ RESULTS
113 Lake Davidson Dr.
*Located in beautiful Lake Davidson Park with lake access!
*Walking distance to downtown Davidson!
*3 Bedrooms, 2 1/2 Baths
*Private porch and garage
Please call us with questions or to schedule a visit!
Sandy Francis 704-576-7049

GRILL
15% OFF WITH CATCARD!
GOURMET FLAME BROILED ALL-BEEF “JUMBO” HOT DOGS SERVED ON GRIDDLE TOASTED ROLLS, GERMAN BRATS, SWEET ITALIAN SAUSAGE, POLISH KIELBASA & OUR OWN PORK BAR-B-QUE, BEAR’S BEST “SN8” PHILLY CHEESESTEAKS & CHICKENSTEAKS
Now Serving Smoked Ribs!
1,677 Square Feet!
I-77 EXIT 25-RT #73-EASY OFF/EASY ON
Hours: Daily 11AM-8PM; Closed Sunday
www.buzzyandbearsgrill.com