THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

College officials unconcerned about drop in ranking

By Katie GILLESPIE & CAITLIN RAWLES
News Editor & Staff Writer

Davidson College tied for 10th place with Claremont McKenna College in the U.S. News and World Report magazine’s annual ranking
of the top liberal arts colleges in the nation. Although Davidson dropped three spots from last year’s ranking of seventh,
college officials are not concerned about the effect the change will have on the school’s academic reputation.

“Just as we don’t gloat when we move up three spots, we don’t mourn when we move down three spots,”
President Bobby Vagt said. “It continues to be nice to be recognized in the same group with top liberal arts
colleges. When you look at the formula and the compression of the variables, at what separates number two from number
nine, we’re pleased to be where we are.”

According to Director of Institutional Research Linda LeFauve, it is difficult for Davidson to even compare its rankings over the
years. “U.S. News won’t even compare changes from year to year because they change the algorithm [used to score institutions]
almost every year,” LeFauve said. “It’s comparing apples to oranges.”

The rankings result from a percentage system comprised of seven factors, including peer assessment, faculty resources, and student selectivity. The
peer assessment ranking, which counts for 25 percent of the total score, is determined by surveys in which the presidents,
admissions officers, and chief academic officers of other liberal arts colleges rank their peer institutions. Over the past ten years,
this ranking has changed from a percentage score to a four-point scale to a five-point scale.

“The scale is outstanding to marginal,” LeFauve said. “How any one respondent defines academic quality could be different from how
another respondent defines it. It’s in part [about] name recognition.”

Another problematic area for LeFauve is the graduation rate performance ranking, which counts for five percent of the score. The
magazine uses variables such as admitted students’ standardized test scores and high school GPA to predict a percentage of students
that it believes should graduate from the college within six years. The ranking is then computed by comparing this percentage
to the school’s actual six-year graduation rate.

“They put the variables into a formula that says your graduation rate should be ‘X,’ based on the type of
students you have, and then compare it to the actual graduation rate,” LeFauve said. “They’re looking strictly at inputs [things
the students already have when they enroll in the college], which is what they keep saying they don’t want to
do.”

The possibility of tied scores further complicates any effort to compare a school’s movement in the rankings over the years.
When two schools have the same score, they share a ranking on the list, but the next school moves down
two spots. A college’s ranking can thus be lowered if the schools ahead of it tie, even if its overall
score is almost as high.

Because it is difficult to interpret these rankings, Davidson chooses to emphasize its academic quality through the increase in applications,
annual giving, and faculty salaries the school has experienced over the past several years. Davidson was also included this year
in an unranked listing of 36 institutions nationwide with the best undergraduate research programs.

“U.S. News won’t even compare changes from year to year because they change the algorithm almost every year. It’s comparing
apples to oranges.”
--Linda LeFauve, Director of Institutional Research

“The types of things that we want to see happening in a positive way are happening,” said Dean of Academic
Affairs Clark Ross.

Yet students acknowledge that these rankings play a role in the college decision process. “My mom compulsively checked those rankings
all the time, and when we first heard about Davidson, we looked it up and saw it indeed was at
the top of the list,” Ali Cundari ’09 said. “I probably would not have considered Davidson too much, unless I
heard rave reviews about its academic superiority from someone who attended here, if it was not rated on a list
like that, because I would have just assumed it didn’t appear for a reason.”

Cundari’s final decision to come to Davidson, however, was based on more than just numbers. “Although the numbers are what
got me to consider it as a competitive and highly respected school, the environment here is truly like no other,”
Cundari said.“Davidson really is a warm and inviting place, and in my opinion, transcends far beyond its closely-ranked competitors’ mere
names and statistics.” This year’s rankings of the top liberal arts colleges included 215 institutions.

TAKE OUT...RIBS
9709-8 SAM FURR RD
HUNTERSVILLE, NC
I-77 EXIT 25~RT #73~"EASY OFF/EASY ON”
Hours~Daily 11AM~8PM; Closed Sunday
Phone Number: (704) 895-2692
— 15% OFF WITH CATCARD —
GOURMET FLAME BROILED ALL-BEEF “JUMBO” HOT DOGS SERVED ON GRIDDLE TOASTED ROLLS, GERMAN BRATS, SWEET ITALIAN SAUSAGE, POLISH KIELBASA &
OUR OWN PORK BAR-B-QUE, BEAR’S BEST “SN8” PHILLY CHEESESTEAK & CHICKENSTEAKS
www.buzzyandbearsgrill.com

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2005

Committee formed to challenge revisions to Alcohol Policy
BY COLLEEN McKown
Staff Writer

Davidson’s new Drug and Alcohol Policy has been a major concern of several SGA members, who feel that the new
restrictions, as well as recent enforcement, are somewhat extreme. Due to dissatisfaction with the changes, SGA Treasurer Jack Hubbard ’06
and SGA Vice President Bridget Kane ’06 are spearheading a committee to re-evaluate the new policies.

One major concern was the new drinking game rules, especially the consequences imposed on the roommates of the game’s host.
The new rule states that students of legal age are allowed to play drinking games, but if underage participants are
caught participating in the game, the host and any other residents in the dorm room or apartment are placed on
social probation for a semester. A second offense results in eviction from Davidson residence halls.

“I could be writing a paper in the next room and get penalized for the drinking game,” Hubbard said. “It
is absurd that I can get in trouble for something I was not even involved in.”

Another of the new rules is that students can only drink alcohol on the overhangs in Martin Court, not on
the grassy areas by the senior apartments. Hubbard cited a recent incident, in which a senior student was told by
Campus Safety to pour out his solo cup when he was “ten inches away from the overhang.”

“The new rules make it a lot harder to have a party. They discourage court parties and are pushing drinking
into rooms and off campus,” Hubbard said. “Pushing drinking off-campus causes more tragedies, due to binge drinking and drunk driving.
It is much safer to keep drinking on campus.”

According to SGA members, students have had a higher than usual number of run-ins with Campus Safety this past week,
which indicates that they are very suspicious of underage drinking and are closely monitoring all drinking. Rusk representative Jordyn Griffin
’06 said it is important to have direct communication with those enforcing the rules. “We need to take a proactive
approach to get everyone on the same playing field,” Griffin said.

Some SGA members feel it is important to wait until after First Night Down before trying to negotiate changes to
the policy. “I don’t think we should sit down with Campus Safety until we have the whole picture,” said Michael
Gordon ’08, chair of the SGA charters and bylaws committee and Phi Gamma Delta representative. Gordon and others said that
it is best to let the issue go for a while, until the semester is further along and Campus Safety’s
expectations are more clearly observed.

“There is definitely a reason for the new policy. Oklahoma State University became a dry campus just recently after a
sophomore student was found dead through alcohol poisoning,” Senator Joshua Choi ’08 said. “If we continue to have a need
for the revision of the new alcohol policy, SGA should consider holding a discussion panel with the enforcement; however, for
now, we should let it sit for a while before making a rash decision.”

SGA also discussed its plans for selling plastic “Davidson Pride” bracelets as a fundraiser for hurricane relief efforts. The bracelets
will be sold until Friday. Students will also be able to make monetary donations at the same table.

EXPERIENCE FOR YOUR RESUME. MONEY FOR COLLEGE.
Strengthening your personal skills is not the only benefit of joining the Army. You can also receive cash bonuses and
money for college. If you qualify, you can receive a $20,000 Enlistment Bonus, $65,000 College Loan Repayment or $70,000 from
the Army College Fund. Find out more at GOARMY.COM or 1-800-USA-ARMY.

Where: U.S. Army Recruiting Station
When: 9 a.m. - 6 p.m. Monday-Friday
Who: Sgt. 1st Class Powers, 704-563-0560
