16 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2005

>Cats take out Wofford; Furman next on schedule

By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Senior Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team advanced to the semifinals of the Southern Conference Tournament with a hard-fought win over the Wofford
Terriers. Riding on a Ryan Adeleye '09 goal and a Ben Ashton '08 shutout, the 1-0 victory puts the ’Cats
at 13-5-1 on the year and pits them against Furman in the second round of the tournament this Friday.

The single goal of the game came on a corner kick late in the second period. A Wofford foul gave
Robby Hoak '08 a free shot on goal, which was deflected out of bounds behind the end line and set
up the corner kick for Adeleye’s score. Davidson dominated the shooting game, making 19 attempts on the goal while Wofford
managed only three.

“All they did was defend for 90 minutes,” explained Hoak. “This was why it was tough to get a goal.
Offensively, Wofford was not a threat.” Indeed, the only time Wofford created a scoring opportunity came in the second period
when a Terrier hit the ball off the left post of Ashton’s goal.

Adeleye commented that in spite of the lack of Wofford offense, the game was both interesting and exciting, and that
the team was glad to give the home crowd a win. Only Adeleye’s second goal of the year, it could
not have come at a more opportune moment for the Wildcats. Nahum Navas '06 and the ’Cats advance in the
SoCon tourney.

Scoring from any position on the field has been the story all season for Davidson, however, so each player has
been likely to find the back of the net. “When it comes down to it, our team does anything that
we can to win; everyone contributes, and sometimes goals come from the most unexpected places,” said Adeleye.

The Wildcats now look ahead to Furman on Friday and the possibility of moving on to the tournament championship. Davidson’s
first match against the Paladins this year ended in a 1-0 victory, played almost evenly on both the offensive and
defensive ends of the field for each team. Furman is now 8-7-4 on the year after beating No. 5 College
of Charleston 3-2 in an overtime game on Saturday.

Hoak said he has no fears of running into problems against the Paladins: “If we play as a unit—like we
always do—then we will soundly beat Furman.”

In addition to the team’s success this week, three individuals earned All-Conference honors. John Latting '06 was named to the
SoCon first team for the third year running, and Cass Baltz '07 and Nahum Navas '06 were named to the
second team. Latting and Navas lead the formidable Wildcat defense, which has helped the goalkeeping unit record six shutouts on
the season.

While the team celebrates these recognitions, they keep their eye on the upcoming games in the tournament. “The team is
confident and focused on Friday’s game, and nothing beyond that,” said Adeleye. The game against Furman takes place in Charleston
at 4:30 p.m.

Catamounts end ’Cats’ winning streak, season

By SUZIE ECKL
Staff Writer

Last weekend, just a day after defeating Elon 2-0 in the first round, the women’s soccer team saw both their
season and their 14-game unbeaten streak come to an end with a 2-0 loss to Western Carolina in the semifinals
of the SoCon tournament.

Said Kristen Koehrn '08, “Thursday and Friday’s games were two of the most hard-fought battles of the whole season, and
we really showed what we could do.”

The team earned many honors on the season, including the SoCon’s Player of the Year, Coach of the Year, and
Freshman of the Year awards.

On Thursday against Elon, the Wildcats came out strong, registering 20 shots to Elon’s eight. Though scoreless after the first
period, it took just over 12 minutes for Kara Koehrn '06 to net the ’Cats’ first goal of the night
off of a long ball from Tiffany Mumby '09. The second came with under a minute left in the game
at 89:39. On a breakaway,Kristen Koehrn drilled the ball past Elon’s goaltender to make the final score 2-0. The win
was Davidson’s 14th, which ties the record for most-ever wins in a single season for the ’Cats. Also, with her
two saves in the game, Bevin English ’08 recorded her fifth shutout of the season and 10th overall. On Friday,
facing the Catamounts of Western Carolina, the Wildcats saw their season come to an end. Western Carolina put up its
first goal over halfway through the first period. A Catamount offender sent the ball into the box where her teammate
was able to find it and place it into the net on the left side. The go-ahead goal came in
the next frame when another Catamount knocked in the ball with less than nine minutes remaining in the game. But
the Wildcats did not go quietly away. Outshooting the Catamounts 17-9, the ’Cats forced the Western Carolina goaltender to make
seven saves on the night. Ten of Davidson’s 14 field players registered a shot. Kara Koehrn almost knotted the game
at one-all two times in the second half, but her header was turned away and another of her shots was
sent just wide of the net.

Bevin English ’08 had five shutouts in the Wildcats’ 14-5-2 season. “Even though it was really disappointing to lose to
Western Carolina in the semifinals, overall we had an amazing season. We set quite a few new records: this year
we had our program’s first wins at UNC-Charlotte and Furman, we set a new shutout record with 10, and we
were the first women’s soccer team to go undefeated in the SoCon regular season. Also, we are currently ranked ninth
in the Southeast in the Soccer Buzz rankings.”

The Wildcats’ season ended with a multitude of awards. Last Thursday, co-captain Kara Koehrn was named to the Academic All-District
Second Team by the Collegiate Sports Information Directors of America. Koehrn finished the season with a Davidson record-tying 19 goals
and 39 career goals. She led the league in points with 42, shots with 96, points per game with 2.00,
goals per game with 0.90, and game-winning goals with nine. Koehrn was also named SoCon Player of the Month last
Monday. As a team, the Wildcats came out with three important SoCon honors. The women’s soccer coaches chose Koehrn as
Player of the Year, defenseman Melanee Smith ’09 as Freshman of the Year, and Greg Ashton as Coach of the
Year for the second time. Smith helped to provide a strong back line for Davidson all year, and this also
led to her selection as a second team member. Nancy Haskell ’08 and Koehrn were both selected as SoCon first
team members.

For Davidson soccer, the season was a good one. “Usually, when a season ends with a loss you tend to
get your head down, but it just wasn’t that way,” Kristen Koehrn says. “Sure, it would have been ideal to
make it to the SoCon finals, but none of us can be angry for leaving everything we had on the
field.” Said English, “I can’t wait for next year.”

Player of the Week
Fiete Stegger ‘08
Swimming
Hometown: Carmel, Indiana
Major: Undeclared
Stegger helped the ’Cats to two wins against Drexel and College of Charleston in last weekend’s CAA Pod meet by
placing first in the 100 free and 200 IM. The team is now 2-1 in CAA play and 3-3 overall.

Play of the Week
Ryan Adeleye’s (’09) game-winning goal
In the 83rd minute of the men’s soccer SoCon tournament game against Wofford, Adeleye broke a 0-0 deadlock, giving the
‘Cats a 1-0 win and a chance to play Furman this Saturday in the semifinals.
