THE DAVIDSONIAN
News
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2005

Painting the campus green: College becomes more eco-friendly

KATE GILLESPIE
Senior Staff Writer

Davidson’s colors may be red and black, but Assistant Director of Building Services Barbara Zaionz is determined to make the school green. Environmentally green, that is. Zaionz, who also serves as Davidson’s recycling coordinator, is working in conjunction with Physical Plant and the student-led Environmental Action Coalition (EAC) to make the campus more efficient and environmentally friendly.

Recycling on campus began in the 1970s and was revived in 1999. “In 1999, we had to revamp due to the fact that our waste hauler was not living up to their end of the bargain,” Zaionz said. “They were taking our recycling to the landfill. Now we work with Waste Management, which is required to give me documentation of where things go.”

Containers for glass, paper, and aluminum, as well as ones for paper products, have been placed in all of the buildings to make recycling convenient for students and staff. There is also a large recycling bin behind the Martin Court F building, as well as bins for corrugated cardboard behind all of the eating houses and fraternities.

“The EAC gives hall recycling talks to all new students during orientation week,” said club member Greg Harris ’05. “This is important because the new students are waiting to see how things work at Davidson, and we tell them: We recycle. Also, they get to see how much their fellow students care about recycling.”

According to Zaionz, interest in the school’s recycling program increases with each incoming freshman class. Beyond recycling, however, she has made it her mission to improve the college’s relationship with the environment since coming to Davidson eight years ago.

Zaionz is responsible for improving the air quality in the interior of buildings and has attempted to “green up” the chemicals and supplies used on campus. Professors now use low odor markers when writing on white boards. The use of acid cleaners has been severely restricted, and bleach has been prohibited in buildings.

The Knobloch Campus Center, Chambers, and Belk Hall all now use a cleaner with stabilized hydrogen peroxide and orange oil that breaks down to water after use. “The advantage is that there is clinical proof that viruses cannot mutate and become immune to an essential oil, particularly orange or lemon,” Zaionz said. “It is more effective and kills viruses and germs faster.”

90 percent of campus buildings now also use a foam hand soap, which spreads more quickly and thus causes people to dispense less soap when washing their hands. Zaionz is also moving to replace bleached, “C fold” paper towels with unbleached, multifold ones and is considering installing motion-detecting hand towel dispensers in Chambers and the Knobloch Campus Center.

Other groups on campus are doing their part to help the environment as well. ITS recycles old computers. Physical Plant recycles used motor oil and tires from motor pool vehicles, as well as white goods (ovens and refrigerators), antifreeze, and acid batteries. Vail Commons uses a pellet-processing system for disposed food and also recycles the grease produced from food.

Davidson’s motor pool has begun to acquire hybrid vehicles in order to keep the

Cable, continued from page 1

dates on campus by April, and to have a commitment by May 1.

Looking back on her tenure as Dean of Admissions, Cable said, “I’ve been here 13 years, and I have been privileged to be affiliated with Davidson faculty and students in both John Kuykendall and President Vagt’s administrations. It’s been a privilege to admit 13 classes.”

She cited several accomplishments or goals that were further realized during that time. Overall applications have nearly doubled to nearly 4,200, the number of African American applications has increased fivefold, and the Belk Scholars program is now fully established with ten scholars in every class. At the same time, Cable pointed to strengthened relationships with guidance counselors in the U.S. and abroad, strengthened athletic recruitment, and increasing financial resources to provide need-based and merit-based aid.

Cable flatly denied any worries about the future direction of Admissions without her. “There are very, very competent people here. They are verystrong, capable, and dedicated professionals.” Cable’s new responsibilities include the external communications, marketing, and faculty and staff contracts of the 2,000-student engineering school. She also will work with her partners at UVA’s law school, medical school, the Darden business school, and the College of Arts and Sciences, among others, in fundraising and strategic planning. Of Davidson, Cable said, “There is not a thing at Davidson that is moving me out the door. Honestly, [it is] how much I’m going to miss this place, especially the faculty and students,” that makes it hard. Dean Cable breakfasts with students and parents during one of the admissions weekends. Cable has admitted 13 classes to Davidson during her time here.

college environmentally friendly. “A year or so ago, we decided that it would be a good idea to buy a hybrid 2004 Toyota Prius and put it in our daily college fleet,” said Associate Director of Bus and Property Management Irvin Brawley, who is in charge of the motor pool. “We just knew that we wanted to try something, and the Prius was a good one for us to start with.” The Prius gets about fifty miles to a gallon and is highly requested by faculty and staff. It has been to Washington, Atlanta, and Maryland and has over 16,000 miles on it. The motor pool recently ordered a second hybrid, a Ford Escape, for Vice President for Business and Finance Karen Goldstein. “I have owned a hybrid vehicle for three years now and believe everyone should consider this option,” Goldstein said. “I am looking forward to trying the hybrid Ford Escape and hope that it will become a popular option for many people. I think we all need to do what we can for the environment, and this is just one way in which I am trying to do my part.” Brawley hopes one day to be able to expand the number of hybrid vehicles owned by the college. Right now he says it is difficult to acquire more because most of the hybrids are going to dealers in the North. “We will probably have the only hybrid Ford Escape in this area,” Brawley said. “We hope eventually that they will make a truck that is going to be a hybrid. They do not make any seven- or nine-passenger vehicles that are hybrids.”

Although the college has already improved its environmental policies, Zaionz wants to make the campus even greener. She hopes to purchase an aluminum baler in the spring to crunch aluminum cans into huge cubes to be stored in the physical plant’s warehouse. “We will sell it to the highest bidder and make between $500 and $1000 per month to go back into the recycling program,” Zaionz said. Zaionz is also frustrated by the lack of student cooperation with the school’s recycling program. Last week marked the second week in a row that recycling from behind the Martin Court F building had to be taken to the landfill because the load was contaminated with pizza boxes. “We need more of an educational awareness that one person’s laziness can cost everyone,” Zaionz said. EAC member Sami Jarrah ’07 agrees that there are more opportunities for Davidson to increase its environmental friendliness. “While recycle bins are nearly everywhere on campus, they are not always adequate, either in size or quantity, and there is room for improvement here,” Jarrah said. “Also, walking around on campus in the middle of the night, one cannot help but notice lights on in nearly all of the academic buildings even when they are closed. The Chambers renovation has certainly addressed this with motion detectors, but other buildings could also certainly benefit from this needless waste of electricity.”

RIBS...EAT IN OR TAKE OUT...RIBS
GOURMET FLAME-BROILED ALL-BEEF JUMBO HOT DOGS SERVED ON GRIDDLE TOASTED ROLLS, GERMAN BRATS, SWEET ITALIAN SAUSAGE, POLISH KIELBASA & OUR OWN PORK BAR-B-Q, BEAR'S BEST
PHILLY CHEESESTEAKS & MORE
HUNTERSVILLE, NC 1-77 EXIT 25 RT #73 "EASY OFF/EASY ON"
Hours: Daily 11AM-8PM; Closed Sunday
Phone Number: (704) 895-2692
www.buzzyandbearsgrill.com