‘First Class e Davidson Permit #1 & “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” & Davidson, NC DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2005 VOLUME 96, NUMBER 19

All the world’s a stage

Vagt makes final substance-free decision

First, second-year students can be sub-free by hall; no option for juniors, seniors

By AMEE PATEL
Editor-in-Chief

President Bobby Vagt made his decision on substance-free housing last week, nearly a year after Sophomore Class President Mac Skelton first met with Dean of Students Tom Shandley regarding his concerns on the option. Vagt called for sub-free housing to be made available by halls for first and second-year students only, dispersed around campus and based on demand.

Vagt’s decision, which will be implemented in the upcoming lottery process, did not take the full recommendations found in the three proposals prepared by the Residence Life Office’s Task Force on Sub-free Housing, the SGA, or the Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL).

Articulating his decision in a letter to the student body, Vagt noted that he had spoken with many parents about their concerns. “I was amazed at how many parents called and said that maintaining substance-free was important,” Vagt said.

Director of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano, who has been involved in the process as both a member of the RLO Task Force and CCRL, said that while the decision itself may be surprising, the manner in which Vagt made his decision is hardly so. “He talks to a lot of people and arrives at his own conclusions. It would be unusual for him to rubber-stamp any proposal,” she said.

Two-week Royal Shakespeare Company residency permeates campus life

By KATE GILLESPIE
Senior Staff Writer

The Royal Shakespeare Company believes its mission is “to keep audiences in touch with Shakespeare — understanding his work through today’s artists, actors, and writers.”

The RSC began its two-week residency at Davidson with the opening performances of “The Two Gentlemen of Verona” and “Julius Caesar” last Wednesday, drawing in audiences with its modern versions of classic Shakespeare plays.

“The question is how to make Shakespeare relevant today,” said Davidson theatre professor Ann Marie Costa, who serves on the RSC Advisory Committee. “How do we get past the barrier of Americans not thinking that Shakespeare is accessible? It’s a unique vision statement because it’s saying we want to keep it relevant and to do it in today’s lenses.”

“Julius Caesar” is set in the beginnings of a new democracy and resonates with modern themes about the dangers of placing too much power into the hands of one person. “It’s set in a timeless time,” Costa said. “You get the sense that what happened to Caesar, his hubris, could happen today. What this play does is capture that in a society we can choose with great oration or...”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

ter to Shandley last Friday, Vagt See article, page 4 and Thursday and has been instructed RLO to continue the current policy, taking the recommendation by the Task Force that "the substance-free floors will be dispersed among those residence halls available for first-year students."

RLO has moved quickly to accommodate the changes to the Task Force’s recommendation, which called for an end to the sub-free option for upperclassmen. Vagt decided on “a continuation of our current policy for second-year students, with these hall units to be dispersed as well, depending upon the demand for this option.”

According to her email, “For the academic year 2005-06, sophomore substance-free housing will be designated beyond sophomore year. Vagt noted in his letter, “As a matter of practice, requests for substance-free housing by juniors and seniors have been de minimus.”

Vagt said that decision came from the input of students, staff, and faculty members, in addition to the proposals of the three groups. Parents were particularly vocal.

See Sub-free, page 4

By ZACH KAZIOR
Senior Staff Writer

Paul Rusesabagina, the real-life hero of the acclaimed film “Hotel Rwanda,” is coming to Davidson on Sunday, Apr. 17 to speak about his experiences during the Rwandan genocide of 1994. In a speech entitled “Hotel Rwanda: A Lesson Yet to Be Learned,” Rusesabagina will connect his story with present-day African conflicts and international foreign policy. During the three-month genocide, Rusesabagina’s connections with Western businessmen and high-ranking African soldiers and generals allowed him to save the lives of 1,268 refugees sheltered in the hotel where he worked.

Nate Shestak ’07, who spearheaded the efforts to bring Rusesabagina to Davidson, hopes that Rusesabagina’s visit will help make the Davidson community more aware of the struggles in Africa. “I was primarily inspired by the ongoing genocide in Darfur and the lack of an international response,” Shestak said. “My interest in genocide helped to bring Paul Rusesabagina to Davidson.”

See Rwanda, page 3

No substance-free housing will be located on the first floor of Belk Hall. Skelton said this message seems inconsistent with Vagt’s decision and does not solve the issue of students selecting the sub-free option only to get housing up the hill. “To me, if you’re going to have sophomore sub-free housing at all, you have to follow what President Vagt actually says and disperse it.”

See Sub-free, page 4

---

@ NEWS: Campus police track laundry thief SEE PAGE 2

Davidson did not deserve at-large bid SEE SPORTS, PAGE 12

Organic goodness at the Farmer’s Market SEE A&L, PAGE 8

Big Dawg’s Commons tips SEE YOWL, PAGE 9