| PERSPECTIVES THE DAVIDSONIAN _. WEDNESDAY MARCH 23, 2005

Staff Editorial

Be fair to the chairs

No good deed goes unpunished. So it would seem with the attempted return of the “Green Chairs.” As The Davidsonian reports this week, Mac Cowell '06 has teamed up with President Vagt and student organizations to try a new approach to his old idea. The chairs offer students lawn furniture to loaf, to study, or to socialize outside. The new, steadier Adirondacks replace the 34 lightweight plastic chairs that debuted in the spring of 2003. While thoroughly enjoyed by students during the sunnier days of April and May, those 34 chairs had a life fitting of Hobbes: nasty, brutish, and short. Weekend by weekend, the chairs were found missing or shattered. Some ended up in trees. For many, their destruction was the most perverse incident in a spate of vandalism incidents, along with the destruction of the “Red Bikes.” Destroying community property that benefits everyone not only means the loss of their use, but also a loss in the sense of trust in Davidson’s hallmark Honor system. The chairs and bikes are placed in a trust guarded by the students, much like the Honor Code. When one fails, it follows that one might doubt the integrity of the other. The point is not to equate breaking a chair with cheating on a test, but every blow done to those chairs also dealt a blow to confidence in one of Davidson’s fundamental characters.

Now the Community Chairs are trying to make a comeback. The new ones are bigger and heavier, hopefully making them less susceptible to vandalism or theft. They are also harder to move, so that when placed a safe distance from dormitories, they will stay there, away from sober or alcohol-induced urges to destroy alike. Unfortunately, these chairs seem doomed to endure the fate of their predecessors. In the first week since making their appearance in the best weather since January’s warm spell, two of the four new chairs have gone missing. There is no evidence that they have been broken, but even if stolen or appropriated by some students to furnish their room, the effect is the same. The chairs are then private and not community. How will plans to spread the program to one chair for every academic department take root if the existing ones are perpetually stolen or abused? If we, the students, want to have nice things, we have to show that we can take care of them. Respect the community. Respect the Honor Code. And respect the chairs.

The Davidsonian

ALENIDA LUX LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel

Managing Editor
Mike Giglio

News Editors
Liz Barry, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia

Perspectives Editor
Matt Bandyk

Arts & Living Editors
Elizabeth Burkhead & Sara Sams

Yow! Editor
Brendan Parets

Sports Editors
Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrory

Photography Editor
Jessica Hodge

Business Manager
Nick Horton

Advertising & Circulation Managers
Page Persons & Janelle Milanes

Worrying about workload? Get over it

“Would you like some cheese with that whine?” If I had a nickel for every time I’ve wanted to say that to a fellow Davidsonian, I’d have my student loans paid back by now. A friend of mine recently gave up whining for Lent; I thought it was a brilliant idea. Suddenly I was paying much more attention to my own lamentations. Let’s just say I do it a lot. Then I realized, so does everyone else. God forbid I get through one day when I don’t hear about how much work someone has, or how tired he is, or how she doesn’t want to go to class, or how she should clean her room, but man, how she’s too darn tired to do it. Some of my Davidson friends even put their “to do” lists up as their away-messages on instant messenger (I think I’m guilty of this too), as if displaying their schedules will make them seem less daunting. This whining has turned into a form of bragging. It’s as if, when comparing how many hours of sleep we got (or didn’t get) last night, you’re exalted if you are the one who slept least. Congratulations! You're officially the busiest! Would you like the “I’m-the-most-likely-to-let-stress-and-exhaustion-ruin-my-health, eventually-leading-to-a-myocardial-infarction” medal? At Davidson, we’re all primed to be the best, but I don’t think vying to be The Busiest or Most Stressed-Out or Most Exhausted are competitions worth winning. The grand prize might not be acceptance to graduate school or the perfect internship; you could take first place in the race to your own downfall. Here’s the ugly truth: whining just makes things worse—for you and everybody else. Talking endlessly about how much sleep you lost writing your paper or how many fingernails you bit off worrying about your midterm causes your friends’ eyes to glaze, jaws to go slack, and their faces to fall into their plates of undercooked Winter Blend. Some things—like the details of your Friday night hook-up or the revolting descriptions of the vodka and spaghetti you threw up that weekend—are best kept to yourself. Whining is an ugly symptom of Mention-itis, a disease that can, if you’re notCareful, take over your body faster than you can say, “I was sitting in the computer lab so long I started growing moss on my backside” or “I’m so tired even my hair is yawning.” It will make you unattractive to your friends, family, and all potential suitors. You become more repulsive than a mullet, pants with elastic waistbands, and orthopedic shoes. Sure, we have some sympathy, but we all have the same problems. Whining just reminds us of what we can’t change. Even worse, whining slams shut the door to productivity and opens the door to depression. It’s true that our stress is real, so it’s understandable why Davidson students might whine more than the average frazzled college student with verbal diarrhea. Unfortunately, whining demands more energy than many stress-reducing alternatives. We can nap, jog around campus, or hang out with friends, all of which are much more effective than simply letting our hectic schedules suck the life out of us like that slimy thing in “Alien.” My fellow Davidson students, I beg of you: stop the whining. I’ve got two tests and a paper next week, and I haven’t slept more than ten hours in the past two days. I don’t have the time or the energy to listen to it. Oops. Well yes, a little cheese would be great.

Georgie Ahrendt is a junior sociology major from Columbia, S.C. Contact her at geahrendt@davidson.edu.

---

America is not the ‘king of the world’

Who exactly does America think it is? As far as I can tell from current affairs, we’ve left behind our image as the ideal democracy in favor of the image as “king of the world.” Honestly, as a citizen of the United States of America, I am not so excited about the role my country has decided to take in recent international events. President Bush and his administration are acting as if American ideals and conceptions of democracy are the end-all and be-all, and nothing anyone else has to say about the issue is of any importance.

Take Iran, for example. President Bush’s resistance to Europe’s decision to offer economic incentives to Iran in return for a promised abandonment of that country’s nuclear arms plan was egotistical and stubborn. President Bush and his administration need to learn to compromise! We can’t expect a country to happily give up a sophisticated system of defense just because it poses a threat to our country; that’s the point of the program. If we want to avoid danger, we need to focus on making friends with those who have the power to harm us. We are not going to be making any such friends by being hard-headed and uncompromising.

Not only did our actions in this case alienate us further from a potential threat, it also created gaps between our country and our European allies. How frustrating must it be for the European Union to have to deal with our one dissenting voice that ruins their entire agenda? And Iran is not the only issue that is relevant to this dilemma. The European Union, looking to facilitate diplomatic relations between China and the rest of the world, is ready to initiate more open economic ties. Considering how powerful China is in all aspects and the huge role it plays in the Eastern world, Europe’s plan seems not only reasonable but also advantageous to all. What’s the problem? Surprise, surprise, the good ol’ U.S.A. Again, President Bush and his administration are trying to hold a foreign power to our national standards, not only an impossible feat but one that will only get in the way of any actual progress towards true democracy.

Democracy is something you cannot force. What you can do is compromise, promote dialogue, promote understanding, and eventually arrive at a situation that is beneficial for all. If President Bush is depending on his opposition to economic relations and diplomatic relations to force China into an American mindset, he’s in for a very long wait with possibly deadly consequences.

What’s the moral of these stories? America needs to reassess its approach to international relations. In a world where communication is vital to understanding and understanding vital to peace, President Bush needs to get rid of his antiquated “he who speaks loudest must be right” mentality. Instead, America needs to take an example from Europe: we need to listen, we need to comprehend, and we need to compromise. If we’re going to play at king of the world, we need to be ready to set up a round table with space for all.

Halley Aelion is a freshman from Bowie, Md. Contact her at haaelion@davidson.edu.

---

The Davidsonian welcomes letters of less than 250 words. Please e-mail the editor at davidsonian@davidson.edu. We reserve the right to edit for content, brevity, and grammar.