Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2005

Park, from page 1

“He [Dr. Park], of course, is a pleasure to work with,” Senior Interlibrary Loan Assistant Joe Gutekanst said. “To me,
he is and has always been the type of boss that never feels that his position is something he ‘holds’.
It is something he shares and uses to support others. In a way, it is something he ‘gives away’ to
the library staff. The staff knows that this ‘giving away’ is something he doesn’t have to do. It’s something he
believes in. And by giving his position away, he has increased it immeasurably among us.”

Student employees in the library also feel the effects of Park’s leadership even if they do not work with him
on a day-to-day basis. “His love of his job and his devotion to the library are evident in how much
all of our bosses love him and also in how smoothly the library runs,” Bree Berry ’08 said. “I know
that everyone who works in the library is deeply saddened by his retirement and that we’ll miss him immensely.”

Park was born in Louisiana and raised in Orlando, FL. “If you're looking for a walking icon that represents Davidson,
for over two decades it’s been Leland Park. His retirement should be a sadness milestone in the life of the
college.” --President Bobby Vagt

“I attended prep school in Tennessee, and then I came to Davidson as a student in 1959,” he said. As
a freshman at Davidson, Park developed a passion for Southern history after taking a class with Dr. Davidson. He also
worked for Dr. Davidson in the library to earn extra money while studying at the college.

Park helps a student with the card catalogue in 1971.

Spellings, from page 1

“Despite her incredibly hectic schedule, we [the executive staff] were pleased by and grateful for Secretary Spellings’ very gracious and
prompt reply,” President Vagt explained. “She was our first-choice speaker; there was no number two.”

At this time, the college has not requested any information concerning the title or the contents of Spellings’ address, but
Vagt anticipates that she will discuss the importance of accountability in higher education. “[Secretary Spellings] was our first-choice speaker; there
was no number two.” --President Bobby Vagt

Spellings’ visit to Davidson’s campus is especially timely. On September 19, she announced the formation of the Secretary of Education’s
Commission on the Future of Higher Education. This 19-member panel will formulate a national strategy to address the issues of
accountability among post-secondary institutions and the role that the federal government should play in the nation’s system of higher education.

While the decision to invite Spellings to Davidson preceded the official inception of the new federal commission, the college’s executive
board knew of the impending announcement prior to the start of its speaker selection process.

The formation of the commission anticipates an increase in the number of students attending colleges and universities. The commission’s goals
include meeting the United States’ future economic and workforce needs, maintaining the nation’s position as a world leader in academic
research, and providing all students with opportunities to attend post-secondary institutions and to pursue the careers of their choice.

In a Department of Education press release, Spellings emphasized that the commission “should send students a clear message: If you
work hard, you can go to college regardless of how much money your parents make.”

Charles Miller, former Chairman of the University of Texas System Board of Regents, will head the Commission, which will include
former governor of North Carolina James B. Hunt, Jr. and university presidents, CEOs, policymakers, and researchers. The commission will meet
for the first time on October 17 in Washington, D.C.

Confirmed in her current position on January 20, 2005, Spellings formerly served as Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy.President
for Domestic Policy during President George W. Bush’s first term, during which time she was instrumental in crafting the No
Child Left Behind Act. Prior to her time in the federal government, Spellings served as a Senior Advisor to then-Governor
Bush during his term in Texas. The college hopes that students and their parents will attend Fall Convocation as a
part of Parents’ Weekend activities on campus. “In a community where time is a commodity, it is difficult to get
people to attend,” Vagt said. “I’m hoping that the fact that Margaret Spellings is speaking will get people to come.
This is a woman who is creating a committee to assess higher education.” In addition to speaking at Convocation, Secretary
Spellings, who is the first mother of school children to serve as the federal Secretary of Education, is expected to
attend a luncheon after the ceremony and will then enjoy the Parents’ Weekend festivities with her daughter, a first-year student.

College. He recalls volunteering to open the library every morning one semester. “I volunteered so that I could actually say
that I did it, but I am not really a morning person,” Park said. “Morning is now a time to
sit at home with a cup of coffee and check your emails. After that one semester, I was finished working
mornings at the library.” After graduating from Davidson, Park studied for his master’s degree in library sciences at Emory University.
He obtained his doctorate from Florida State University. The strong bond Park shared with the former director Dr. Davidson brought
him back to Davidson in 1967 after serving in the army and working for a year as a reference librarian
in Charlotte. He accepted the position of Director of the Library in 1975. “Everyone needs a library in their life,
and the library at Davidson is singular for its commitment to uphold values and the Honor Code. The administration, faculty,
and students support the library in a truly remarkable way. This is a special place.” --Leland Park, Director of the
Library

For Park, the library directorial position implies a stewardship of the ideals that support the college’s foundation. “Everyone needs a
library in their life,” says Dr. Park, “and the library at Davidson is singular for its commitment to uphold values
and the Honor Code. The administration, faculty, and students support this library in a truly remarkable way. This is a
special place.” Park serves as head marshal during the class of 1994’s graduation. The college administration has provided tremendous support
to the library by increasing its budget annually, enabling the college to offer an outstanding collection to its patrons. “It’s
amazing how the college views this library,” Dr. Park said. “Even the two buildings, Chambers and the library, they speak
to each other. In 39 years, I have never once dreaded coming to work.” The college has selected a committee
composed of faculty that will begin the process of searching for Park’s successor. Park said he has offered to assist
in the search process in any way the administration desires. “My hope,” he said, “is that my successor will build
well on this wonderful foundation.”

LAKE NORMAN
Quality repair by people who care!

Confused about where to have your vehicle repaired? Lake Norman Auto & Tire Center is your “One Stop Repair Shop.”
We value all our customers and guarantee all work for 14 months or 14,000 miles. Call Lake Norman Auto &
Tire for a “free” consultation on any problem you may have with your vehicle. Lake Norman Auto & Tire offers
a 10% Labor Discount to ALL DAVIDSON Students, Faculty, and Staff! Additionally, we will provide shuttle service back to campus.
Give us a call at 704-892-6590 or email at service@lakenormanauto.com for consultation or to make an appointment!

18705 Statesville Rd
Fax 704-892-6596
