8

THE SN really just dead See Page 6

The Davidsonian considers replacing The Yow! with old ‘Family Circus’ cartoons See Page 7

% Union See Page 11

Girls still not allowed in tree fort See Page 12

Campus Safety questions bushes in front of Commons about dead trees outside Little Library See Page 13

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Editors: Bobby Kenner and Jeff Yeakel
Not Editors: Nathan Bradshaw, Brent McCormick

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editors at bokenner@davidson.edu or jeyeakel@davidson.edu.

Note: The Yow! is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

HUMOR WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2005

== Tl INLy UBERTAS U BI O RT-A DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

sidebars, recycle Read October 2005

The Davidsonian

The controversy over whether or not students should be allowed into science buildings after 1 a.m. took a new twist last week when Campus Safety revealed new data concerning the buildings. In addition to the cost of keeping the lights and air conditioning systems operational during the night hours, the Martin Chemistry building is apparently haunted.

Officer Brian Jones thinks it is unsafe for students to linger in the building after 1 a.m. “The ghosts have been mighty restless as of late with all these students trying to stay up late in their labs,” said Jones. “I’ve seen quite a few beakers broken and tables overturned in the last week. If a student happens to be working at this time there’s a chance they might get a sliver of glass in their eye or their foot smashed by a table. That’s a risk we don’t want to run.”

If students leave the building by one o'clock, however, Campus Safety doesn’t think there will be any incidents. “The ghosts don’t really get to work until after one,” said officer Leslie O’Donnell. “Like the students, they put off starting their work until late at night. So students should be safe as long as we can get them out by the set deadline.”

Some students have also witnessed paranormal activity in the building when they tried to finish their labs. “Once I was finishing up a chemical analysis lab when I noticed something odd on the mirror above the safety eye wash fountain,” said Rob West ’07. “It turns out that one of the ghosts had tried to scare me away from the lab by writing ‘Your GPA is too low for med school’ in blood.”

Other students are more skeptical of the reports of ghosts in the science buildings, however. Some even doubt the existence of ghosts at all. “I don’t buy all this supernatural-mumbo-jumbo that the administration is feeding us,” said Katherine Barnes ’06. “I think they are just coming up with lame excuses to make it tougher for us to do our work.”

No one is exactly sure why the science building is haunted, but there are several prevalent theories. Some students think the ghosts are past Davidson students that have come back to warn the present Chemistry majors against choosing the pre-med track. “One of the ghosts introduced himself to me as an alumnus who wasted his entire life away doing labs in this building,” said Elizabeth Ings ’08. “He warned me not to do pre-med because it would eat up all my free time at Davidson. He also urged me to enjoy simple pleasures like breathing and eating, which now, as a ghost, he realized he took for granted. Also, his head kept falling off.”

Some students think the ghosts have more sinister intentions. “The ghost I saw tripped me and then threw all the lab equipment into the trashcan,” said Jim Daughtery ’07. “Then, on top of that, he shredded my lab report that I had spent hours working on. These ghosts clearly are jealous of our human senses and ability to tangibly interact with the physical world.”

While Campus Safety assured the student body that there would be no problems as long as they cleared out of the building by 1 a.m., some students wish for a

“One ghost wrote ‘Your GPA is too low for medschool in blood.” 

more long-term solution. “Sometimes I am so busy that I can’t even start my homework until one o’clock,” said Justin Howard ’08. “Campus Safety needs to get those ghosts out of there for good; they aren’t even paying tuition. I don’t know who they’re gonna call, but it needs to be soon.”

RLO demands bribes for better housing lottery numbers

This week several freshmen reported what they perceive to be threatening messages from RLO. The messages came either in emails or in letters delivered to campus mailboxes, but all of them contained the same proposition. “Basically, the letter offered me the chance to pay RLO 500 dollars to ensure that I get a lottery number that will put me up-the-hill next year,” explained Ted Quincy ’09. At least 12 other freshmen received such notifications, although only a few were willing to give their names. One of the anonymous students said, “I’ve heard stories about the sophomore apartments; I don’t want to risk RLO getting angry at me for ratting them out and sticking me with a really bad number.” The other anonymous students suggest there may be even more out there who received this proposition, but will not say so in public for fear of vindication.

When asked about this issue, Dean of Residence Life Jamie Wilco answered, “Such a situation, were it to occur, would indeed be a problem. I am unaware at this time of any evidence other than some campus rumors that would substantiate this claim. For the moment, RLO has our hands full with such never-ending tasks as refilling First Aid boxes with condoms, patrolling the Tomlinson pods for alcohol, and of course, getting the air conditioning in those three buildings working properly.”

When asked whether an investigation would take place, Wilco said, “As I stated, we have quite a lot of more important tasks to accomplish. Perhaps when those are complete, if the rumors still persist, we will put it on the agenda of our monthly meeting.”

Many students say they are perfectly aware of their solicitous messages and ignoring the moral turpitude that they represent. “They will have to fix the air systems in Irwin, Akers, and Knox sooner or later, and that will cost money,” said Anna Roswell ’07. “They’ve already tried to cover up the delay there by paying over 100 students 100 dollars in Bonus Bucks, which don’t come cheap. It sounds to me like RLO is exploring options to balance those payments out.” Said Drew Hinkley ’08, “I think they’re just taking advantage of the fears created by the need to pay us off for having dorms. With the prospect of living conditions so bad that I certainly wouldn’t want to end up down the hill again.”

Regina Linville ’09 has already stated that she intends to pay the five hundred dollars to buy a better lottery number. “Whether it’s right or wrong, it’s the system that controls our lives. I’m not about to get stuck in a moldy, poorly heated dorm room just because I don’t want to pay protection money.”

Many students have reported unfavorable consequences to ignoring the alleged RLO demand for protection money. Jimmy Newmann ’09 reported that he caught an RLO employee in a pinstriped suit shuffling his class notes around and removing the staples from his stapler. Another student, who wished to remain anonymous, reported that a suspicious man smoking a cigar and holding a tommy gun changed his network password.

Now that the issue is out in the open, a few upperclassmen have reported that they received similar offers during their freshman year. Bobby Norris ’08 said, “RLO offered to give me a bigger email quota and a carpeted floor if I paid them $700 and signed up for the 19-meal plan. The only problem was that I didn’t get any bonus bucks, so I declined.”

When Davidsonian reporters tried to find Wilco to ask him about this additional piece of evidence, they were told that he was unavailable and would be engaged in alumni-related activities for the two weeks following Homecoming.