For you sports fans...

WILSON’S PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat Game of the Week
Baseball vs. UNC Greensboro
Saturday, March 19 at 2:00
Wilson Field

If you haven’t been to a Wildcat home game this year, go this weekend. Newly-renovated Wilson Field is a beautiful place to experience some baseball, and Saturday’s game will mark the dedication of the renovation.

Outside the Den
NCAA Tournament
#6 Syracuse vs. #11 Vermont
Friday, March 18 at 7:05

Normally, a game between a six seed and an eleven seed would not intrigue me. This game between Syracuse and Vermont, though, could be the best game of the first round. The tandem of Hakim Warrick and Gerry McNamara might be the best inside-outside threat in the country, but they may not be the best one-two punch.

When Logan’s potential game-tying three fell woefully short in the final seconds of the conference semifinals, it all seemed so unfair. Davidson, a team that had gone a perfect 16-0 in the regular season, did not even have a chance to play for the only conference championship that really mattered. Instead, a UNCG team that had lost three of its final four regular season games and was just 5-5 in its final 10 contests was celebrating at our expense and moving on to the primetime ESPN match-up with Chattanooga. More importantly, the Spartans still had a chance to dance. For Davidson, the bubble burst the moment the clock hit 0:00.

I still watched Selection Sunday a few days ago, hoping to somehow hear Greg Gumbel announce that Davidson had earned an at-large bid to the Dance. I knew it wasn’t possible. No one even mentioned Davidson as a potential bubble team by that Sunday afternoon, instead deferring to the likes of Maryland, Indiana, Notre Dame, and even Buffalo, just to name a few. But I watched with minimal hope nonetheless. When the last of 65 teams was revealed, however, I wasn’t angry like I had been a week earlier in Chattanooga. More accurately, I wasn’t angry that Davidson was not included on the list. I was peeved that Northern Iowa was in, Washington was a top seed, and Wake Forest was a two, but that’s another matter.

Yes, we had a heck of a season, and our 16-0 mark in the conference is something that Davidson can always look back on with pride. All of the great moments from the 2004-05 season, including the Duke comeback, the two last-second wins against College of Charleston, and the demolition of Chattanooga in Belk Arena, more than made up for the disappointment. But to say that we were one of the 34 best available at-large teams, ahead of the likes of West Virginia, N.C. State, and even tournament outsiders Notre Dame and Maryland, is likely not true. That group collectively beat Boston College (twice), Wake Forest, Duke (twice), and Connecticut, among others.

Furthermore, unlike the story for most mid-majors, Davidson actually had a chance to play its way into the Dance this year. Typically, mid-major teams complain that they cannot schedule enough high-major programs to create a resume worthy of at-large consideration. At best, those teams can get games with big-time programs only if they agree to exclusively play away from home. Davidson, on the other hand, had home games with Duke, Charlotte, Seton Hall, and Georgetown, as well as road contests against Missouri, Princeton, St. Joseph’s, and UMass. Fair or not, that was the time when Davidson needed to prove itself worthy of at-large talk. If the team that went just 1-7 against non-conference Division I opponents could have pulled off a few wins over Charlotte, Seton Hall, Georgetown, or St. Joseph’s, not to mention Duke, then we wouldn’t be talking about the game on Wednesday against VCU.

Davidson was spectacular in beating Missouri on the road, and the team showed its mettle in a valiant second-half comeback versus Duke. But in the end, the ’Cats did not get it done against the top competition, going just 1-4 against the Top 100 RPI teams. Davidson demonstrated its superiority throughout the Southern Conference schedule, winning in all types of ways to finish undefeated in conference. But that level of competition, in a conference ranked outside of the top 20 RPI, is not enough to distinguish a team for the tourney.

Sure, it is frustrating that the Southern Conference will not be sending its best representative to March Madness, and the weight placed on conference tournaments does on the surface belittle any accomplishments outside of the final weekend. But would Davidson have been saying the same thing a year ago, when ETSU romped through the league at a 15-1 clip? Davidson limped to a 3-5 start to the season and looked destined for a date in the dreaded tourney play-in games.Instead, the Wildcats finished on an eight-game winning streak and entered the tournament as one of the hottest teams in the conference. While Davidson eventually fell to ETSU in the semifinals, there was reason to hope up until the final seconds of that defeat. The magic of March is that every team has a chance to dream instead of having its bubble burst in the first weeks of January.

St. Patty’s Day, NCAA, help March pick up
By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Senior Staff Writer

It’s been over a month since my words last entered your rooms uninvited, and while I’m sure you’ve enjoyed this hiatus, I was becoming extremely lonely. Fortunately, plenty has happened since mid-February to keep me occupied, such as The O.C. returning to season one glory several weeks ago before slipping back into Saved By the Bell: The College Years territory. Ryan and Marissa potentially getting back together scares me. That would be the television equivalent of Shaq reuniting with Kobe. Like Kobe, Ryan has lost any and all street cred, and we’re all better served when he’s on the peripheral, allowing Marissa to act like girls I wish actually existed. Besides, Alex has found a special place in so many Americans’ hearts, and who among us can’t appreciate gratuitous lesbian make-out sessions? (You can send all complaints to riconnolly@davidson.edu.) The whole “Julie Cooper in a porno” theme gives me hope for a full OC recovery, however. She has essentially become Newport’s version of Charlie Ward: skilled in many aspects but master of none. Her resume to date: trophy wife; Mrs. Robinson; gold-digger; and now adult film star. This woman’s past seems to haunt her the way needles haunt the Giambi brothers.

And is it just me, or has March been the month from hell for all of sports? Baseball’s image has been deflated by steroids; 56 percent of NFL players were recently declared legally obese; the NBA is mired in mid-season doldrums, during which rumors of a lockout have begun to surface; and college hoops has recently seen one player punch another where it always counts, another flip the camera the bird, and a coach send in a notorious goon to break an opponent’s arm. I’m not sure what the Ides of March actually are (who could I ask ... ?), but they’re doing a damn good job screwing athletes over all around the country.

There exists a small glimmer of light, though. Thursday marks the opening day of March Madness, and for those of us lucky enough to understand what “Erin Go Bragh” means, tomorrow holds even more reason to celebrate. Indeed, if you’re Irish and into sports, March 17, 2005, ranks right up there with the day Guinness and rugby were invented, two events that absolutely must coincide because only a drunk would try putting rules to everyone’s favorite playground activity, kill-the-carrier. But while Irish will certainly be fighting somewhere tomorrow, the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame find themselves without a dance partner, having been snubbed by the NCAA selection committee, which made several decisions on Sunday that left me wondering whether its members began celebrating St. Patty’s day a little early. Monday’s Associated Press poll had Louisville ranked fourth and Washington eighth. Yet, the committee rewarded the Huskies with a number one seed in Albuquerque, while punishing the Cardinals by placing them fourth in the same region. I once caddied for Louisville coach Rick Pitino, and he chucked a putter 50 yards after lipping out an 18-footer for like triple-bogey. I would have paid good money to see his reaction on Sunday.

Nonetheless, we now have Cinderellas to crown and brackets to fill. Some like to brag about their Bracketology talent, and that’s fine. Some people also like to brag about their Webtree skills. Math has proven that the odds of picking a perfect bracket are more than nine quintillion to one, and college has shown anyone who brags about class selection doesn’t have time for much else. What we do know is that since 1985, when the field expanded to 64 teams, the four top seeds have never advanced to the Final Four in the same year. And since 1990, the 12-seed has won an opening round game more than one-third of the time. But while these stats are at once telling and intriguing, we would do well to pay little attention to them. After all, we all know the person who walks away with the money is the one who picks based on team colors or cute mascots. (This is me refraining from another politically incorrect comment.) That’s why I’ve got the Gaels of St. Mary’s cutting down the nets on April 4. This time of year it’s hard to bet against anyone with a hint of Irish in them.