THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2005

Melissa Bandy ’06, third from left, serves birthday cake to celebrate the 15th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act.

Student organizations join to honor Rosa Parks’ life
By AMANDA STEPHENS
Staff Writer

In honor of Rosa Parks’ death last Monday, the Black Student Coalition (BSC), Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity (APA), and Sistahs
of Essence are raising funds for The Rosa and Raymond Parks Institute for Self-Development. By organizing a fundraiser, these student
organizations hope to raise awareness of Rosa Parks’ life, work, and contributions to the civil rights movement, as well as
help to sustain her legacy.

“We want to centralize our efforts to make a successful event to commemorate Rosa Parks and all of her efforts
made to our nation,” said APA and BSC President Brendan Watkins ’07. There will be donation tables in the Union
during the fundraiser, which will be held next week. The BSC, APA, and Sistahs of Essence will also be asking
for support from local religious organizations such as Gethsemane Baptist Church and Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

BSC Vice President Craig Pickett ’08 looks at the fundraiser as a way of getting the community involved. “This is
a powerful opportunity for the Davidson College community to get outside the box,” Pickett said. According to Sistahs of Essence
Secretary Jacquin Milhouse ’08, Rosa Parks’ contributions during the civil rights movement helped to create opportunities for diversity at educational
institutions like Davidson. “Rosa Parks is someone to be respected because she paved the way for African Americans in respect
to social justice, specifically for African American Davidson students. Her one action opened the door for many more opportunities.”

BSC and APA Service Chair Anthony Brown ’08 also commended Parks for her involvement in education. “Rosa Parks was a
pivotal figure in the civil rights movement and a compassionate human being. Aside from her activist role, she really cared
about the advancement of the black community,” Brown said. “I think that it is commendable that the Alpha Phi Alpha
Fraternity, the BSC, and Sistahs of Essence are coming together to help continue her legacy by raising funds for the
Rosa and Raymond Parks Institute of Self Development.”

The Rosa and Raymond Parks Institute was founded in 1987 by Rosa Parks and Elaine Eason Steele, a long-time friend
and fellow civil rights activist. The Institute’s mission is to educate today’s youth and to help them develop leadership skills,
lifetime skills, and a multicultural perspective. The central program, called Pathways to Freedom, educates students beginning with the Underground Railroad
and continuing through the civil rights movement. The interactive program enables students to travel nationally and internationally, as well as
share their experiences with their communities. The Rosa and Raymond Parks Institute is also devoted to educating adults and senior
citizens. For example, one program, from which Rosa Parks herself graduated, teaches computer literacy skills to seniors. The Institute has
helped many people achieve educational success, career development, family unity, and community growth.

704-576-7049 Sandy Francis 704-576-4577
Please call us with questions or to schedule a visit!
*Located in beautiful Lake Davidson Park with lake access!
*Walking distance to downtown
*3 Bedrooms, 2 1/2 Baths
*Private porch and garage
www.lakenormanresultsteam.com
Davidson! 1,677 Square Feet!

Minority religions integrated into religious practices on campus
By ADAM MARTIN
News Editor Emeritus

Students practicing Judaism, Islam, and Hinduism have worked with College staff to integrate their religious practices into the everyday life
of Davidson College. TheSchool has excused class absences and granted review extensions on religious holidays and provided student religious organizations
with physical space and funding. According to President Bobby Vagt, “it’s incumbent for all of us to show sensitivity to
people’s religious differences.” There are still some problems with responding to the needs of students who are religious minorities, however.
Last month, faculty members excused several Jewish students from class for High Holy days. According to Jessica Kolansky ’07, President
of the Jewish Student Union, about 18 students attended services at Temple Bethel in Charlotte for Rosh Hashanah (Hebrew New
Year) and Yom Kippur (Day of Atonement). Brian Orland ’08 was excused for both holidays by two professors. “[They] wished
me a peaceful holiday,” Orland said. Charles Horwitz ’08 and Megal Atias ’08 had mid-terms scheduled on Rosh Hashanah. Both
Jewish students had attended services in Charlotte the night before. Horwitz asked and received a one-day extension on a test.
Atias, a Jewish student from Israel, decided not to ask for an extension for her Wisdom Literature review because “I
didn’t think I would get one.” She attended the service and came straight back to campus in time to meet
with her study group. Dr. Karl Plank, Chair of the Religion Department, said:

---

Stell, from page 2

The strengths and limits of the natural sciences, social sciences, and humanities as they attempt to explain and achieve a
measure of control over disease, illness, and suffering. Stell teaches two courses at Davidson that focus on medical issues. In
his Medical Ethics course, students read court cases, philosophy, and other materials that help them understand and develop knowledgeable opinions
about ethical issues relating to medicine. He also teaches Health Care Ethics, a course that students who have taken Medical
Ethics may elect to take. Students in the Health Care Ethics course accompany Stell to the Carolinas Medical Center to
learn firsthand about issues in health care ethics. Each student in the Health Care Ethics course receives a hospital identification
card, white coat, and works under a physician mentor. “I want students to leave my class with a deeper understanding
of the complexities of health care providing, the relationship between patients and physicians, the problems of medicalizing society, and the
relationship between law and medicine,” Stell said. In addition to his ethics courses, Stell continues to pursue and share other
philosophical interests at Davidson. “We are fortunate that Professor Stell, while directing the Medical Humanities Program, has still been able
to teach courses in Philosophy,” Robb said. “His philosophical interests are quite diverse. In addition to teaching popular courses on
ethics and related fields, he’s taught Chinese Philosophy and the Philosophy of Law.” Stell will also still serve on the
Ethics Committee at the Carolinas Medical Center, where he continues to deal with making important ethical decisions. He even carries
a pager in his classes, which goes off if there is an “ethical emergency” at the hospital. Stell teaches a
philosophy class.

---

Peninsula China Bistro
704-987-2299

20% OFF (Take Out & Dine in Only)
Not to be combined with other coupons
5th Anniversary Special Coupon
Each Entree
