14 THE DAVIDSONIAN ~ SPORTS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2005

’Cats enter tourney with three-match win streak

By JAMIE WILL
Staff Writer

The volleyball team headed into its final two matches of the regular season looking to improve their seed in the
Southern Conference tournament that looms in the near future. With matches against SoCon foes Furman and Wofford this past weekend,
the Wildcats had a chance to improve their conference record to 11-7, as well as their overall record to 15-17,
and they were able to do just that in dominating fashion.

In the first match, which was against Furman, Davidson swept the games 3-0 to even the season series with the
Paladins after losing back in October. Davidson was able to put together several furious runs of points throughout the match,
with Kate Pierucci ’08 fueling the run to win game one and Tierney Hodge ’09 finishing out the third game
and the match with several kills. For the second time this season, Hodge wrapped up the match with a hitting
percentage of over .500. Liz Williamson ’07 contributed consistently throughout the match for Davidson, scoring 17 kills, seven digs, three
blocks, and even adding an ace on the serve. The team’s hitting percentage against Furman was the second highest of
this season, with the team hitting over .300, leading to the conclusion of Furman’s winning streak and the first of
Davidson’s own consecutive wins heading into the final match of the regular season the next day.

Closing out the regular season at home in Belk Arena, the Wildcats took to the court on Senior Day with
Erin Balak ’06 leading the way. Balak, the team’s only senior this year, was honored before the match and responded
with a great showing, including a season-high in kills with 12, another season-high and team-leading hitting percentage with .385, and
nine digs. Davidson extended its winning streak to three by sweeping Wofford out of the gym in another 3-0 victory.
After taking the first game of the match easily, the Wildcats had two tough competitions in games two and three,
winning each by only three points, 30-27 and 30-27. After a wise timeout by coach Tim Cowie in game two,
Pierucci and Williamson stepped up to capture four of the next six points. The ’Cats capitalized on this run to
take the 27-24 lead. Though the Terriers evened out the score at 27-27, Balak was able to contribute two kills,
and the Wildcats eventually held on for the victory.

Davidson received strong play again from Pierucci and Williamson, both of whom had double-digits in kills, with 16 and 10,
respectively. Jenna Dykstra ’07 also had a strong match in her position of setter, finishing with just under 50 assists
for the match. Davidson continued the strong hitting that it had begun in the previous match, which is a great
sign heading into the conference tournament. After a slow start to the regular season, the team came together and roared
back into contention, earning the fifth seed in the SoCon tournament as well as aFirst round bye. The tournament will
take place on the campus of Georgia Southern in Statesboro, Ga., starting Nov. 17. The Wildcats head into the tournament
on a tear both as a team and with individuals really stepping up their play. Williamson, who achieved her 13th
double-double of the season against Wofford, was awarded the Molten Southern Conference Player of the Week, citing her performances against
both Furman and Wofford. With Williamson leading, as well as the momentum of a three-game winning streak, Davidson looks to
make a strong showing in the tournament. The Wildcats will begin their post-season play against fourth-seeded Chattanooga on Friday at
10 a.m. The Wildcats and the Mocs have split matches so far this season, although Davidson leads in all-time wins.
If the Wildcats continue to hit the ball well and play as a cohesive unit, they will have a chance
to make a strong showing.

— www.turn4pizza.com

BUFFALO WINGS

15% OFF WITH DAVIDSON CATCARD OR THIS COUPON!

NEW HOURS: Mon.-Thurs. 11am - 10pm; Fri & Sat 11am - 10:30 pm; Sun 11am - 10pm

- FRESH HOMEMADE DOUGH & SAUCE
- HAND TOSSED PIZZAS
- FRESH SALADS
- OVER 20 VARIATIONS OF BREADSTICKS

Erin Balak ’06 and the ’Cats will play Chattanooga on Friday.

Wrestling begins season with fourth place finish

By KEVIN BIRNEY
Staff Writer

Davidson’s wrestling team opened the season this past weekend at the 24th Annual West Virginia Open in Morgantown, W.V. The
event featured competitors from some of the most talented teams in the country, including Virginia Tech, Maryland, Lehigh, Old Dominion,
Cornell, and the host Mountaineers. Trebor Clavette ’08 was the highlight for the ’Cats, finishing with a 5-2 record. Clavette’s
effort earned him fourth place in the 165-pound division, which Cornell’s Steve Anceravage ultimately won. Clavette advanced to the quarterfinals
with an opening round victory of 5-1 and a second round win of 7-2 before losing to Maryland’s Jason Kiessling
7-6. Clavette then rattled off three wins in a row and moved on to the consolation match, a rematch with
Kiessling, where he lost 6-2. Clavette’s impressive performance continued the success he had last year, when he ended the season
with a 23-13 mark.

Other Davidson highlights included winning records for Patrick Coman ’06 (4-2) at the 133-weight class, Matt Leonard ’06 (4-2) at
the 149 level, and Matt Pendle ’08 (3-2) at 157 lbs. Said Coman, “Overall we were pleased with the way
we wrestled. We wrestled hard, now we just need to go in the practice room and correct our mistakes and
good things will happen. Our preseason training program really paid off, a lot of guys were able to come from
behind to win because they were in better shape than who they were wrestling.”

The Navy Classic is up next for the ’Cats and new coach Bob Patnesky. The tournament is an all-day affair
and will take place on Nov. 19 in Annapolis, Md. The first time you can see the team on their
home mats will be on Jan. 14 against Gardner-Webb and Belmont-Abbey.
