4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

‘Green’ chairs return to Chambers lawn

By EMILY KOTA
Senior Staff Writer

The Davidson campus will have additional outdoor seating and student expression this spring due to the renewed efforts of Mac
Cowell ’06 and his Adirondack chair project. According to Cowell’s plan, students and faculty of academic departments will purchase chairs
and then paint them in a manner representing their respective discipline. Cowell also extended the project to include student organizations
after they showed interest.

Cowell’s project is strongly supported by President Bobby Vagt. Steven Gentile ’06 has been working with Cowell on the project
and said Vagt is “very much into student expression.” Vagt continues to be “impressed by the creativity of the students
at Davidson, and this project is no exception ... the idea of painting them in departmentally sponsored ‘themes’ is brilliant.”

Several chairs have already made their unadorned debut on campus; Vagt purchased two, the physical plant purchased one, and through
spontaneous fundraising, the Davidson Village Inn purchased one chair. These chairs are currently on the lawn in front of Cannon
Residence Hall. “They are comfortable and situated in the perfect location. I hope that they put more of the chairs
on campus,” Ashley Raba ’07 said.

Cowell plans to give these four chairs that still need to be decorated to the student groups and academic departments
that show the most enthusiasm for the project. Cowell hopes to use “the four on campus as a means to
hook the rest of campus on the idea.” The plan originated as a way for Cowell to serve the community,
but he “also just wanted to sit outside in a lawn chair.” He feels it is a shame that students
do not spend more time outside and believes that the chairs will add a lot of atmosphere to the campus.
“The presence of these chairs makes the campus very inviting,” Vagt said.

This is not Cowell’s first attempt to improve the campus through outdoor seating. While visiting colleges as a prospective student,
Cowell saw Adirondack chairs on other campuses. Once he arrived at Davidson in the fall of 2002, he “thought that
it would be cool if we could do that here.”

Because Cowell was working on the project independent of any organizational association, he avoided having to deal with any bureaucratic
issues with his proposal. On the other hand, he was not able to receive grants for funding; most grants can
only be given to established organizations, not individuals. Raising funds to purchase the expensive chairs proved the most challenging obstacle
to Cowell’s plan. He began by going around the freshman dorms with a Cool-Whip container asking students for donations. Surprisingly,
he raised around three to four hundred dollars. Unfortunately, the chairs cost about $300 each. Cowell decided to purchase plastic
versions of the Adirondack chairs to “act as a launching pad and to give the campus a taste of what
the idea was.” He hoped that the plastic chairs would

---

If you are planning to do research/work on campus, OR
- If you are going to be employed in the area, OR
- If you are attending classes at UNCC...

Davidson can provide housing for the entire summer or on a weekly basis in the Martin Court apartments at very
competitive rates. Rent includes utilities, cable, and internet hookups, kitchen facilities, and a private bedroom. Phone service includes one common
line for all four residents. Cost for the full summer (12 weeks) is $972, weekly $86, and daily $15.75.

Applications will be available in RLO, Room 07, in Belk Basement beginning March 1st. They will be accepted until April
15th, on a first-come, first-serve basis. You must submit:
(1) A completed application, along with
(2) A $100 refundable damage deposit, and
(3) A letter/email from your professor/supervisor/employer stating your beginning and ending dates of employment and nature of your work for
your application to be complete.

Roommate preferences are accepted but not guaranteed. Questions may be directed to Judy Klein at x2341 or juklein@davidson.eduserve to convince
the administration to provide money to purchase wooden chairs. He had enough money to purchase 17 chairs, and an anonymous
donor paid for his order to be doubled to 34 chairs. In the spring of 2003, Cowell and friend Bo
Rainbow ’06 picked up the chairs from the physical plant and distributed them around campus from the back of a
pickup truck. Regrettably, students did not always use the chairs for their intended purpose. Some students took the chairs, using
them in their own dorm rooms. Cowell kept track of the chairs and noticed that two or three were broken
or lost each weekend. “The closer they were to the court, the more often they got broken,” he said. Cowell
“lost a lot of faith in the Honor Code and the idea that it’s wholly accepted by the student body.”

This year, Cowell and Gentile brainstormed, trying to find a way to get the community involved and personally invested in
the project. The current plan addresses three issues. First, by connecting chairs to departments and student groups, people have greater
interest in maintaining the chairs. At any college, student turnover is high and involving professors increases the influence of long-term
members of the community on the project. Second, chairs will be sponsored, and paid for, by the department or student
organization. Distributing the cost of the chairs among various groups makes the project economically feasible. Third, painting chairs will increase
student expression on campus, an unrelated concern of Cowell and Gentile.

Join America’s #1 Student Tour Operator

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2005

Watson, continued from page 1

Other Davidson seniors. After being nominated by the College, Nelson submitted his proposal as an application to the program. He
has received help from a wide range of sources in developing his project. “Everyone from fiddlers in Scotland to professors
here in the U.S. have been willing to help with my project,” Nelson said. “It’s really been amazing.” Nelson is
planning to live with a Swedish musician for much of his time in western Africa. The Watson Fellowship encourages independent
travel and prohibits students from returning to the United States for the entire year.

“Everyone from fiddlers in Scotland to professors here in the U.S. have been willing to help with my project. It’s
been really amazing.” --Ben Nelson, 2005 Watson Fellow

“I know that there are drawbacks such as not seeing my family, but I know I’m doing the right thing,”
Nelson said. “A lot of my connections with my family are through music, and I know I'll be able to
bring back a lot from my time abroad.” Nelson feels that competency in a country’s principal language is important for
the full experience. “Being able to communicate in the language that people are most comfortable with gives you insights that
you don’t get from speaking in a second language,” Nelson said.

Despite his proficiency in Malagasy, Nelson will be exposed to many foreign languages throughout his project. Nelson is competent in
French. He also learned how to speak Malagasy during his time in Madagascar. During his trip to Ireland, Nelson will
stay in the county that has the largest Irish-speaking population among the entire British Isles. “I wanted something that would
both challenge and make me grow,” Nelson said.

The Watson is offered to qualified seniors from nearly 50 undergraduate institutions nationwide. Each participating school is allowed to submit
up to four finalists for review at the national level by the Fellowship Program Board; there is no guarantee, however,
that any of those candidates will be selected for the award. 50 students are selected as Fellows by the Board.
Davidson has had a Watson Fellow every year since joining the program in 1969.

GRE GMAT LSAT MCAT DAT OAT PCAT TOEFL

Receive a $100 rebate when you enroll in a Kaplan course between March 1 and March 31. Limited time offer!
Call or visit us online for more information or to enroll. 1-800-KAP-TEST kaptest.com/rebate
