THE DAVIDSONIAN

Coach McKillop’s passion for

By WALKER SAIK
Senior Staff Writer

“Daaaadddyyyy’s Boy. Daaaaddyyyy’s Boy.” The words are familiar for the Wildcats, as those or others like them are rained on
Matt McKillop ’06 every time he touches the ball or steps to the charity stripe in an enemy gymnasium. It
would seem to be a daunting backdrop to a pair of free throws or a potential game-winning three-pointer, but the
younger McKillop knew that’s what he would face when he decided to come to Davidson three years ago and play
for his father, head coach Bob McKillop.

The elder McKillop is as close to a living legend as we have here at Davidson, as he resurrected a
program and returned it to the top of the Southern Conference standings.

SPORTS

Father-son combination adds family dimension to ’Cats

With a win this Wednesday against East Tennessee State, McKillop will also set the all-time mark for SoCon victories by
any coach in conference history. But while Matt faced high expectations in coming to play for his father three years
ago, he has more than lived up to that pressure. In fact, he’s been a huge contributor throughout his two-and-a-half
years at Davidson.

Matt started for the Wildcats 10 times as a freshman and quickly gained a reputation as a sharp-shooting guard. He
became a full-time starter last year, switching between the point guard and shooting guard positions in order to diversify his
game beyond that of a standstill shooter. This year, fans have seen his all-around play advance even further, as Matt
has developed into one of the key leaders of the team both on and off the court. His game-winning shots
against Appalachian State and College of Charleston reminded everyone of that.

But people have to remember that it’s not easy to follow your dad. Most people can’t even fix the kitchen
sink with Dad barking orders at them, let alone play big-time collegiate basketball for him. Naturally, then, bringing Matt to
Davidson was a tender process for the elder McKillop. “I painted a very clear and candid picture of pluses and
minuses so he knew what may happen,” said Coach McKillop, citing crowd chants and possible perceived favoritism as potential problems
he’d face.

Matt decided to take the challenge, though, and the Davidson community has been better for it. Being the local boy,
he’s not just a symbol of Davidson basketball but also one for the community as a whole. “Matt’s been a
joy to coach because he wears Davidson across his chest,” said his father. “He plays for the school that he
grew up rooting for, and he plays that way.”

Still, though, the problems that the McKillops foresaw years ago came true. “Everywhere we go, they have a ‘Daddy’s Boy’
cheer. It’s something you hear—you’ve got to,” said Matt, who must take joy keeping opposing fans quiet after sinking a
few shots.

Then there’s the tenuous father-son relationship, where teammates, fans, and assistants alike may question decisions made by either McKillop. That’s
where these two need to get the most credit—they’ve avoided such conflict without a problem. “As long as I’ve known,
basketball has been the number one topic around the house,” said Matt, “but we know where to separate the court
with the dinner table. My father has done a good job with leaving stuff in the gym.”

“If there is one thing he and I respect,” says Coach McKillop, “it’s the player-coach relationship. It’s a player-coach relationship,
not a father-son relationship.” In addition, each credits the other with their mutual successes. “Matt is sort of a mirror
of every guy on the roster who believes hard work is a constant. In fact, I think that is the
mirror of the Davidson student,” said the elder McKillop. On the other hand, Matt says, “With [Dad’s] coaching and knowledge
of the game, I don’t think I’d have gotten any better experience with any other coach.”

McKillop also admits to having learned a lot from having Matt on the roster. For a coach who has won
250 games in his career, that’s saying something. “[Matt’s] aConstant reminder that every player on the court is someone else’s
son. Parents have entrusted their sons in my care, and with my son being one of them, it gives me
a constant reminder of that.” Amazingly, this isn’t the only family combination on the roster. Former Davidson standout Landry Kosmalski
’00 is a recent addition to the coaching staff, where he joins brother and current forward Logan Kosmalski ’05 on
the team. Oh, and keep your fingers crossed. There might be another McKillop on the way. Brendan, 16, is already
a varsity point guard for Charlotte Catholic.

The SoCon Source: A look at this week’s conference action

EDITOR’S NOTE: In order to provide our readers with a better perspective on Southern Conference basketball, we made Jake research
this week’s games tirelessly to bring you his picks. We advise you to use these choices with discretion:

Wednesday, January 26
DAVIDSON over ETSU
Tim Smith, one of the SoCon’s most exciting players, visits Belk Arena when ETSU tips off with the 'Cats on
Wednesday night. Smith’s turnover-to-assist ratio is down from last year, so look for the wild Belk crowd to cause a
few more errant passes from him. On second thought, I think the extra turnovers will come from Davidson’s perimeter defense,
not the crowd.

Saturday, January 29
CHARLESTON over Georgia Southern
Look for Charleston to rebound from their loss in Statesboro with a win over Southern on Saturday. This will be
Georgia Southern’s first real road test of the year, since they have only traveled to Elon, Western Carolina, and The
Citadel, arguably the worst teams in the conference this year.

ETSU over Appalachian State
ASU has yet to win a road conference game. Never pick a road team that hasn’t won on the road
all year long. It’s just a terrible way to choose. ETSU will have a definite bounce-back game after Wednesday’s loss
as they put on a show for their home crowd.

Furman over WOFFORD
My first road pick of the week. Wofford has been genuinely terrible in conference, and Furman has proven it can
win on the road with a victory over ETSU back on Jan. 8. Furman will be coming off of an
easy home game against Elon, so I will steal a word from Regina George of “Mean Girls” and go ahead
and say this game could get “fugly.”

Chattanooga over UNC-G
This is by far the toughest pick on Saturday, as the two best teams in the North division square off
for first-place bragging rights. I like the experience of Chattanooga’s backcourt, and besides, I just don’t think UNC-G is that
good.

WESTERN CAROLINA over Elon
Western Carolina and Elon are the two worst teams in the North division. If you put money on this game
you might as well start betting on intramural B-league games.

DAVIDSON over The Citadel
I just don’t think Davidson will lose for the first time at home against the Bulldogs. The Citadel routinely gets
spanked by the good teams and beats the terrible ones, and Davidson is a good team.

Monday, January 31
DAVIDSON over Chattanooga
This is the marquee conference game of the year, with the best team in the South division playing the best
team in the North. These two teams could very well be playing each other in the SoCon tournament for the
coveted NCAA berth. Everyone should get out to Belk Arena to watch this game, unless of course you are watching
the Eric Prydz music video “Call on Me.” If that is the case, you are excused.

FURMAN over Western Carolina
Furman is on the brink of becoming one of the elite SoCon teams; they play all the good teams tight.
Furman averages more points-for than points-against in conference play and boasts a .500 record in the tough South division. This
team could make a deep SoCon tournament run, mark my words.

Wofford over THE CITADEL
Though Wofford is only 1-5 in the SoCon, they have played Tennessee tight, beaten Auburn, and narrowly lost to Georgia
in OT. If I were the Wofford Athletic Director I’d be looking to get into the SEC.

Greensboro over ELON
Betting on Elon winning is like betting against another Braves NL East title or Patriots playoff win: until it happens,
don’t do it.
