4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Davidson maintains national arboretum status

By Lexi HAMILTON
Senior Staff Writer

The Davidson campus is an arboretum that boasts 3,000 labeled woody trees and shrubs native to the North Carolina Piedmont region. In order to be considered an arboretum and maintain membership in the American Association of Botanical Gardens and Arboreta, the College must identify, record, and label its woody plants.

“Our membership in The American Association of Botanical Gardens and Arboreta establishes us as a public garden whose mission is display, education, research, and plant conservation,” Physical Plant Director David Holthouser said. “People visit our campus just to see our collection of woody plants.”

An 1869 Report of Faculty to the Board of Trustees at Davidson first suggested the idea of creating an environment on campus that would represent and preserve the diverse botany of the area. In 1982, the Director of the National Arboretum in Washington, D.C., Mr. Henry M. Cathey, wrote to Davidson College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. suggesting that the college use its grounds to form a national arboretum.

The arboretum is a source of education and enjoyment for many local area residents. “Every year, middle school students hit the gold mine when doing their leaf collections for their study of botany,” Holthouser said. “They come to the campus, pick their leaves and nuts, and have an instant reference of scientific name and species right there on the tree tag.”

The college uses aluminum to make its identification tags. Aluminum tags do not harm the trees, and cataloguers can easily punch information about the tree into the metal. According to Holthouser, data on the tag includes “the identification of the tree, its location, its birthday, and most importantly maintenance conducted, fertilization conducted, pest problems encountered, storm damage encountered, mechanical alteration made and professional evaluations by third-party arborists.”

Many individuals contribute to the cataloguing and maintenance of the arboretum’s woody plants. “The college employs 13 individuals full-time in the grounds department,” Holthouser said. Other third-party groups evaluate the health of the arboretum as well. “Bartlett Tree Experts have had a presence here since the early 1900s,” Holthouser said. “We yearly ask them to evaluate specific trees...and in doing such they probe the root structure, drill samples of the trunk, and test the soil conditions. When we remove a tree on campus, it is with a great deal of science and consideration.”

The tree experts who evaluated the college’s botanical life in the past are currently studying the oak tree by the football stadium that recently fell due to conditions caused by the large amount of rain this season. The physical plant noticed a ring, or a structure around the roots at the base of the oak, when cleaning up debris after the tree fell. Since the ring normally keeps the root from obtaining nutrients and allowing the tree to grow, Holthouser was surprised it took so long for the tree to fall.

“We speculate that that ring was constructed around the tree to allow the College to add fill for the baseball outfield,” Holthouser said. “Seeing this, we’re actually surprised the tree survived that ring, as fill on top of the root structure usually leads to a tree’s demise.”

The college arboretum has provided the tree experts studying the oak with careful documentation and prompted the physical plant to watch the tree closely in the past few years. Persons interested in the college’s arboretum may pick up a self-guided tour map from the physical plant work-order desk in building No. 9 Jackson Court.

ResNet student employees work in their office in the Belk computer lab.

Lab, from page 1

According to Muchane, however, ITS has made a conscious effort to respond to student needs this semester. In November, ITS hosted “Ask a Geek Day,”During "Ask A Geek Day," ITS staff were available to answer computer-related questions in the Union. There was also a drawing for a USB drive, which approximately 66 people entered. Campus Security joined in by offering to engrave personal ID numbers in students’ computers. These numbers are then entered into a national data bank and can be used to identify a computer should it be stolen. The engravers are available for students and faculty year-round.

In another effort to better accommodate students, ResNet has increased its hours of operation by 33 percent this year. New hours of operation are 7-11 p.m. Sunday through Thursday. “More ITS staff are now out and about on campus talking with all our clients,” Muchane said. “As we interact with the campus community, a large part of our work is listening. We look to students, faculty, and staff for answers to the following questions: what do you, our clients, want to accomplish with information technology, how will your ITS needs change over time, what do you like about what is currently available to you, and what do you need that is not currently offered?”

ALE, from page 1

ALE agents spotted two underage Davidson students with open beer bottles wandering through the town. “Once you’ve done the job [law enforcement] long enough, you can tell when someone is underage,” Walker said. The agents proceeded to follow the intoxicated students onto Martin Court. After watching them enter an apartment, the officers knocked on the front door of the building and entered the apartment after a student answered the door. The nine students who were gathered in the apartment received between nine and 15 state citations, most of which contained charges either of possession or of aiding and abetting the consumption of alcohol by a minor.

Despite the number of citations, ALE was fairly lenient. According to Chief Walker, whom ALE agents contacted shortly after their arrival on campus, the state officials did not investigate the noise coming from other nearby apartments. The agents also ignored several other students who were walking by with open containers. “They [ALE agents] were respectful, worked within the area that they had identified as a problem, and left,” Walker said.

Additionally, while ALE officials did contact the campus police shortly after their arrival on campus, their decision to do so was a matter of professional courtesy. Their decision to allow campus police to handle the situation is an example of ALE’s willingness to cooperate with college officials despite the lack of any formal or legal obligation to do so. According to Dean of Students Thomas Shandley, campus leaders “would rather the college deal with law enforcement in [its] own way without [outside] involvement.”

Although campus police officers are fully state-certified and are well within their rights to write state citations, they generally cite students for Code of Responsibility violations, which puts the cases under the jurisdiction of the Dean of Students Office. ALE’s last appearance on campus was nearly four years ago. Shandley and Walker do not anticipate visits from state officials to become regular events. Because ALE’s 104 sworn agents handle cases involving alcohol, controlled substances, gambling, nuisance establishments, and missing persons statewide, it is very unlikely that the agency’s already-occupied attention will focus on Davidson College again. According to Walker, however, when ALE agents are in the area, “if you bring attention to yourself, you will get caught. They live and breathe [their jobs]. If they see the signs [of intoxication], they know.”