THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2005

Students not taking full advantage of grant money

By COLLEEN MCKOWN
Senior Staff Writer

Students interested in research and cross-cultural studies submitted their applications for the George L. Abernethy Endowment Grant last Friday. The Abernethy Endowment has $50,000 available for student grants. Last year, the Abernethy Grant committee awarded about $40,000. According to Vice President of Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty Clark Ross, there are usually not enough projects that “fully fit the criteria” to use all the available money. If enough students receive grants this fall, there will not be another opportunity to apply for the Abernethy grant. However, there was a surplus of grant money after the fall application round last year, so more students were allowed to apply in the spring.

The project must be related to the humanities and social sciences, namely those George Abernethy was interested in and contributed to. These subjects include philosophy, ethics, politics, economics, public health, world affairs, and comparative religion. Freshman, sophomore, and junior students may apply for a grant to do independent research in the U.S. or abroad, to study cross-culturally, or to do collaborative research with a faculty member. Seniors who are able to complete their work prior to graduation may also apply. Projects can occur during the academic year or summer and, on average, last two to four weeks.

According to Ross, the committee looks for “enthusiasm and a well-thought-out project, a proposal in which the student has clearly researched a feasible project.” About 20 students receive funding each year. Two of last year’s Abernethy grant recipients included Halley Aelion ’08 and Cristi Hillis ’06. Aelion’s project was entitled “Understanding French Catholicism Through Art” and Hillis’ was entitled “Russian Orphan Graduates.”

Aelion, who researched French Catholicism revealed through art, was interested in living and researching in Europe for the summer; however, she knew paying for living expenses would be a financial burden. “The thought of not working and having to finance a summer in Europe by myself really scared me. I really wanted to find a way to minimize my financial loss while enjoying a great cultural experience,” Aelion said. The Abernethy grant enabled her to do so. Aelion stayed in France for two months, living in Tours for one month and Paris for the other. “I learned a lot about iconography, French medieval politics, and Biblical stories. Writing the grant itself was a learning process, as well. I learned to be careful when making budgets and that it’s important to plan ahead,” Aelion said.

Researching in France was not difficult for Aelion. “Tour guides and employees working at the cathedrals I visited were always more than willing to answer my questions, and Paris had great public libraries I could use to research for free,” she said.

Hillis traveled to Russia last summer for two weeks to gather information for her senior thesis. She interviewed Russian government officials and officials at the camps that college-age orphans attend. Hillis, a Russian Studies major, is writing her senior thesis on the treatment of Russian orphan graduates by the Russian government. Hillis’ interest in the Russian orphan culture began at a young age. Her family began adopting Russian children when she was 12, and she currently has eight Russian siblings. Hillis encouraged other students to apply for projects they are passionate about. “The Abernethy grant enables you to think bigger and to do a project you wouldn’t have the opportunity to do otherwise,” she said.

Jordan, from page 1

many police or ambulances were there yet. The taxi driver and I assumed that there was a fire, but we couldn’t see any smoke or anything. But there were tons of people all over the street running away from the hotel. There was just lots of confusion, and no one really knew what was happening.”

According to police and government officials, a suicide bomber blew himself up in a car outside of the Days Inn hotel. Jordan’s friendly ties to the United States may have motivated the attacks. For Jarrah, the attacks hit close to home. “The hotel is literally within walking distance of where I live, and cars were backed up all over the place. The police got there quickly though and blocked off traffic and cleared the streets for the ambulances and fire trucks.”

Immediately following the attacks, Jarrah and fellow students on his program were under strict travel restrictions within the city. “I got messages from my program coordinator saying that we were all to stay indoors and not leave our homes for any reason,” wrote Jarrah. “That was later lightened a bit, but we are still not supposed to go to malls, big restaurants, places foreigners frequent, souks, or downtown.”

Molly Langer ’07 was also in Amman during the attacks and is studying in Jordan for the year. She wrote via email, “I was at home with my host family when news of theBombings broke on Jordanian TV. My family was initially shocked, but seemingly calm and unafraid.” Langer and Jarrah both wrote that the response by Jordanians has been in overwhelming opposition to Zarqawi’s actions. According to Langer, “While there are many subjects on which Jordanians disagree, every single Jordanian I have spoken with has expressed grief and anger at Zarqawi’s use of Islam as justification for the bombing of unsuspecting men, women, and children... I wish I could adequately convey the frustration I feel from the people around me on this subject, frustration I now share as a result of having developed a deep respect for the way Jordanians practice their faith.”

As international media outlets report, protests against the terrorism in Jordan broke out in the streets the day following the attacks. “It’s eerily reminiscent of the days immediately following September 11, except on a much smaller scale,” wrote Jarrah. “But just talking to taxi drivers and random friends, I’ve heard a lot of disappointment that terrorism is now appearing in Jordan, a relatively safe haven in the turbulent region.”

While Jarrah was shaken by the attacks, he acknowledged the possibility of encountering terrorism before he had decided to study in Jordan. “I knew I was in a safe place [when I came here],” he wrote, “but calling home about terrorist attacks was something I had imagined I would do during my semester abroad... I had to call home about terrorist attacks while I was studying in England as well as visiting Egypt, so it’s a universal experience it seems. Sadly.”

Adam Martin contributed to this article.

New Testament scholar to deliver Staley Lectures
By COLLEEN McKOWN
Senior Staff Writer

Lord Bishop of Durham of the Anglican Church and prominent New Testament scholar the Rev. Dr. N.T. Wright will deliver the Staley Lecture Series this Wednesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Duke Family Performance Hall. Wright entitled his two-lecture series “Biblical Faith in a Postmodern World.”

“I am very excited about the lectures. N.T. Wright is a world-renowned scholar who takes seriously his responsibility to a wider audience,” Director of the Lilly Program for the Theological Exploration of Vocation and Religion Professor Tim Beach-Verhey said.

In his first lecture, “It’s the End of the World as We Know It: Apocalyptic Vision Then and Now,” Davidson College Chaplain and Rev. Rob Spach anticipates that Wright will analyze current Apocalyptic literature, comparing and contrasting this literature with the Apocalyptic themes in the Bible. “He is faithful to a Biblical way of understanding and really seeks to understand Scripture critically,” Spach said. “Wright speaks dynamically and personally. He is very engaging and connected to the audience.”

In his second lecture, “The Lordship of Jesus and the Empires of the World,” Wright will speak from a Christian worldview about the pressures from empires that fight to claim peoples’ allegiances. The lecture will also examine the U.S. role as a political and cultural empire. “Wright will help us view the ways Jesus and Paul responded to the Roman Empire, giving Christians today ways to grapple with what it means to be a powerful nation with global reach,” Beach-Verhey said.

Wright will leave time for questions after both lectures. There will also be opportunities for students to talk with Wright on a more personal basis. Twelve students have signed up for a lunch with Wright, which will give them a chance to engage with Wright and ask further questions. Following the second lecture, there will also be a “Fireside Chat” with Wright in the Union.

As the Bishop of Durham since 2003, Wright is the fourth highest-ranking official in the Church of England. Wright has written over 30 books, including “The Challenge for Jesus,” “The Resurrection of the Son of God,” and the well-known “For Everyone” Bible series. He graduated from Oxford University with a degree in classics and theology. Wright then went on to pursue a Doctor of Philosophy degree. Following his education, he served as a college chaplain at Oxford and Cambridge. In 1994, Wright was appointed the Dean of Litchfield, and in 2000 he was named the Canon Theologian of Westminster Abbey.

Thomas F. Staley ’24 started the Staley Lecture Series in 1970 because of his interest in furthering the Christian witness at Davidson. The series brings speakers to Davidson who have a strong background in Christian scholarship and who can articulate a Christian vision to a varied audience. A committee chaired by Spach is in charge of finding the Staley speaker each year. The committee includes faculty, staff, and students. Previous Staley lecturers include Frederick Buechner, Tony Campolo, James Forbes, and John C. Polkinghorne.