THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2005 ARTS & LIVING

The Jazz Band entertains the audience with a warm and sultry sound.

Jazz band wows audience
By JARROD BLUE
Arts and Living Editor

Count Basie, Duke Ellington, and the many other legends of jazz would have been very pleased with the performance by the Davidson College Jazz Band this past weekend. The band played Friday evening to cap off the first day of the 2005 Family Weekend festivities.

The evening began with “Moment’s Notice” by John Coltrane, an up-tempo song that showcased the vibrant nature of the band. The band continued the evening with “Blues for Bubber,” which featured Josh Knight ’08 and his smooth and sultry sound on trumpet. The evening was invigorated further by the musical stylings of Michael Cavell ’08, who played alto and soprano saxophone. It was easy to become lost in Cavell’s playing as he allowed his instrument to speak to the audience. Before the evening was over, Cavell had the opportunity to improvise during “Rush Hour Traffic,” effectively highlighting his musical versatility.

The band opened up the second set with “April in Paris” by Count Basie, featuring Matt Petit ’08 on trombone and Mario Silva ’09 on trumpet. As this selection was played, the audience cried out “one more time,” and the band played the tag line of the song again. This exchange was repeated two more times. It became evident by the end of the evening that the band meshed well together and respected each other for their musical talents. Petit said it was “really fun” playing with the band. The electricity of the band created a fun and warm atmosphere for all students and visiting parents.

If you missed the jazz band this past weekend, you truly missed out. However, there are more opportunities to hear this wonderful ensemble throughout the year. The band will be going on its annual winter tour during winter break and will have its spring concert on April 7.

Self-instructional languages
By KATIE HUNTER
Senior Staff Writer

Walking through Chambers, one might expect to hear an “hola” instead of a “hi,” or an “au revoir” instead of a “goodbye,” coming from the room of a language class or an assistant teacher (AT) session. But what about an “annyeong” or “namaste?” For students enrolled in a Self-Instructional Language course, learning and comprehending such commonly unknown words is often part of a daily routine, one which involves motivation and dedication to a self-structured language study.

Courses currently offered range from Beginning Arabic to Continuing Japanese, but “each semester is different,” according to SIL program director and Associate Professor of French Carol Kruger. Course offerings depend on “whether we can obtain appropriate materials, native-speaking conversation partners, and an examiner,” which are vital components of each SIL study. Once these are secured, however, any upperclassman who has already completed the college’s language requirement can apply for permission to put the course on their WebTree.

Students enroll in SIL courses for various reasons, including the fulfillment of a CIS major or preparation for study-abroad. Kruger warns that SIL courses “are not in competition with classroom instruction,” since so much of the coursework is self-taught. Being self-instructional, these courses require participating students to make a strong commitment to their studies, one that they must keep up with in order to maximize their weekly meetings with a “conversation partner.”

These sessions, an integral component of each SIL course, usually take place two to three times per week for a weekly total of 150 minutes, emphasizing “speaking practice and oral communication,” according to Kruger. Liz Dover ’07 considers them “between AT and class.” The conversation partners themselves, “a mix typically drawn from Davidson’s own student body and the outlying community, are required to be native speakers of the language.

As far as the largely self-study component of the courses, there appear to be both positive and negative sides. “While it is frustrating to study alone,” said Megal Atias ’08, “it is more convenient to plan your own schedule.” Amanda Kuker ’08 says that personal motivation is key in that respect, since “the student must go one step further than in a normal, beginning level, language class and steadily learn the material.” She adds, “Students cannot just routinely cram before tests.”because there are none, and to procrastinate studying until the night before the final exam—the only grade for the semester—is obviously just a really bad decision.”

By ARIEL BUGOSH
Staff Writer

Carlos Fuentes, a Mexican writer and critic with international success, was selected as the speaker this year in the Z. Smith Reynolds lecture series. Each year, the Public Lectures Committee considers a list of nominated individuals as potential speakers. Speakers are chosen on the basis of their appeal to the college and local community. Based on his work and background, Fuentes is one of the strongest choices they could have made.

Fuentes, the son of a Mexican diplomat, was born in Panama in 1928. He grew up in cities throughout the Americas including Buenos Aires, Santiago, Rio de Janeiro, and Washington, D.C. Fuentes then went on to study law in Mexico and Switzerland. Most of his career has centered on Mexico; his international experience gives him the ability to look at Mexico from both the inside and the outside. Fuentes has always made politics a central part of his writing philosophy and even served as ambassador to France.

He has achieved great success as a writer with works including “Where the Air is Clearer” (1958), “The Death of Artemio Cruz” (1962), “Aura” (1962), “Terra Nostra” (1975), “The Old Gringo” (1985), “The Campaign” (1990), and “This I Believe: A Life From A to Z” (2005). His work has enjoyed both critical and popular success. For example, “The Old Gringo” was made into a movie in 1989 starring Jane Fonda and Gregory Peck. Among other prizes, Fuentes has received the Romulo Gallegos Prize in Venezuela (1978), the prestigious National Prize in Literature in Mexico (1984), and the Miguel de Cervantes Prize awarded by King Juan Carlos in Spain (1987). When he received it, the Romulo Gallegos Prize had only been awarded to two others, and those were the famous writers Mario Vargas Llosa and Gabriel Garcia Márquez.

Fuentes has also held teaching positions at Cambridge, the University of Pennsylvania, Cornell, Princeton, and Harvard, where he inaugurated the Robert F. Kennedy Chair in Latin American Studies. Fuentes’ work is important because of his place in Hispanic literature and in chronicling Mexico’s development. As Spanish Professor Luis Peña notes, “Fuentes wrote during the 1950s, when the traditional and provincial Mexico collided with the attitudes of modernization.” Fuentes’ work laid the foundations for many other writers. His work has cross-cultural significance because of his understanding of the interaction of Mexican and American culture.

Part of Fuentes’ talent is his cosmopolitan background. His work appeals to many different people. Peña says that, “he can navigate from the poorest areas of Mexico to the highest elites.” In addition, Fuentes’ ideology shines through without obstructing his art: “He is very loyal to his ideas; he is political but not partisan.”

Carlos Fuentes will be speaking in the Duke Performance Center on Thursday at 8 p.m. on “Celebrating Cervantes and Don Quijote.” The event is free to the public but requires tickets. It will be simulcast in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room.

The final exam, usually an oral interview, “counts for about 90 percent of the student’s grade,” according to Kruger. “It is administered by an outside examiner who knows what material has been taught, so the appropriate expectations are there.” So, want to try your hand at Hindi, or make an attempt at Arabic? “Students interested in taking a SIL course next semester are expected to submit their applications, which can be found on the Davidson website, as soon as possible,” says Kruger. Even if your interests lie with a language not currently offered, “we will work with students to identify speakers on campus,” and find appropriate materials, which is something that may or may not lead to another course offering.

15% OFF WITH DAVIDSON CATCARD OR THIS COUPON!
DELIVERY AVAILABLE DAILY SPECIALS!
www.turn4pizza.com
NEW HOURS: Mon.-Thurs. 11am - 10pm; Fri & Sat 11am - 10:30 pm; Sun 11am - 10pm
(704) 655-4444
18059-8 W. Catawba Ave. Cornelius, NC
BUFFALO WINGS
FRESH HOMEMADE DOUGH & SAUCE
HAND TOSSED PIZZAS
FRESH SALADS
OVER 20 VARIATIONS OF BREADSTICKS