4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Party, continued from page 1

are following the rules. Hall counselor Margaret Brooks ’07 said it wasn’t that hard to keep students up the hill. “On our hall, it hasn’t been hard for the hall counselors to enforce the rule, but we have had a countdown posted since the first day.” Various campus groups plan activities during the first two weekends, so students certainly have alternatives to the party scene. Saturday night, the Union Board planned a NEWS “The Price is Right” game. Davidson Outdoors also took a backpacking trip to Mount Rogers last weekend. Furthermore, hall counselors plan hall activities to help students get to know one another. “There are tons of things on campus that provide interaction with upperclassmen apart from parties,” said Hamm. In general, Brooks thinks First Night Down is a good concept. “I think it’s an awesome idea to encourage the freshmen to get to know each other.”

Eating houses: a retrospective

By KATIE BARTELS
Staff Writer

Davidson’s first female eating houses were established shortly after the College went coed in 1972. Davidson women opposed the establishment of sororities initially, but the exclusion of sororities from Patterson Court eventually became an issue of campus debate during the 1990s. The first eating houses at Davidson grew out of the 1971 implementation of self-selection for fraternities. Several fraternities vacated their houses in opposition to this controversial policy, leaving room for eating houses to develop. The first eating houses at Davidson were male and co-ed institutions, but in 1977, a group of women decided they needed their own social organization and created Rusk House, the first all-women’s eating house at Davidson. Demand for women’s eating houses increased over time. Warner was established in 1982, followed by the now-defunct Spencer House, which existed from 1985-1993, followed by Connor in 1992, and Turner in 1998. Davidson’s only current co-ed eating house is CoHo, which was established in 2000.

The student body and administration debated adding sororities to Patterson Court in both 1995 and 1997. Although the idea quickly died out in 1995, the 1997 campaign for sororities was more successful, although it did not result in the introduction of sororities. Sororities from around the country came to campus to try to debunk myths about sororities and gain support from the Davidson College community. Although there was more talk about sororities at Davidson in 1997, the general campus attitude towards them was still negative. In a 1997 Davidsonian survey, 70.3 percent of female respondents said that they felt “negatively or very negatively” about bringing sororities to campus. Only 8.2 percent of females supported the idea. Students and alumni who responded negatively pointed out the possible negative effects on admission and the divergence from the ideals of Davidson. They also brought out the fact that many comparable liberal arts institutions do not have sororities or, in some cases, Greek life at all. A faculty committee created to evaluate the idea of bringing sororities to Davidson also did not support the movement. In a statement they issued to President Vagt at the time, they said they thought sororities would “substantially change the organization of student life at Davidson ... and adversely affect academic life.” President Vagt agreed with the faculty committee and student majority in January of 1998. In a letter to the campus, he wrote that bringing sororities to campus would “put at risk one of this institution’s greatest strengths - that is the unsurpassed quality, the breadth and depth of female applicants for admission.” After the 1997 initiative, talk of sororities at Davidson died down. In July, however, a group of students contacted Vagt about the potential for a historically black sorority on campus. These students are currently assessing potential interest on campus and visiting eating houses to ask for support.

Relief, continued from page 1

them to donate rebate money earned from business-related purchases. Departmental assistants typically cash out the rebate money or use it for future purchases of office supplies and office furniture. The marathon also gave students, faculty, and community members who performed a chance to reflect on and relate to the victims of Hurricane Katrina. “One thing that really struck me was the passion and sincerity of everyone getting up on the stage,” Lemer said. “With only two days notice, no one obviously had time to prepare. Some of the performers noted that when they were on the stage, comparing their anxiety about performing with little notice to the fact that folks in New Orleans also had little time to prepare for the hurricane.”to prepare, but with considerably higher stakes involved.” The relief efforts will continue this week with an auction of fraternity brothers sponsored by SigEp tonight at 10:00 p.m. in the Union atrium. Davidson’s three a cappella groups, the Delilahs, the Generals, and Androgyny, will perform a benefit concert on Thursday night at 5:45 p.m. in the Duke Family Performance Hall. Admission is $3. Surprise your college kids or campus chums with a yummy 202 South Main St. Davidson, NC. 704-892-0604 Chet @ derry’s

Seemad inkdng, x 228 to know each other during the first couple of weeks by keeping them together up the hill,” she said. She also realizes, however, that First Night Down can promote unnecessary anticipation. “The wait builds up too much hype and expectation.” McManama agrees that freshmen should probably have time to get used to Davidson life before going out to the court. “When I was a freshman, I thought that the concept of waiting to go to the court was the worst thing ever,” said McManama. “As painful as the wait is, though, it is a good idea to let the freshmen get a chance to settle in before they worry about the court.”

Freshmen had mixed opinions about First Night Down. Some considered the night overrated, but many have exciting memories. “The parties were not nearly as wild as the orientation programs and Davidson 101 classes would lead you to believe,” Sarah Baley ’09 said. “I did not spend the evening fighting off the advances of a sketchy big brother, and neither did my friends. Furthermore, most of the people around me were relatively sober. The evening was fun and a great way to let loose after a week of classes.” Other freshmen, like Ali Cundari ’09, found the night “very overwhelming and crazy.” Few freshmen, however, said their experience was entirely negative. “The apartments were lots of fun, but the frats tended to be sweaty, body-rubbing fests,” Abby McKenna ’09 said. “I didn’t walk in with super-high expectations, but they were met.”

First Night Down is just the beginning of life on Patterson Court throughout the year. “Having Greek life on campus is a great opportunity for students,” said Hamm. “Students involved have a unique opportunity to make friends throughout Patterson Court.”

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2005

Dining, continued from page 1

ness clubs, such as the Organization of Latin American Students (OLAS), the Asian Culture and Awareness Association (ACAA), and the Davidson African Students Association (DASA), allowing them to sponsor different nights. Hassett and Caldwell believe this will increase exposure of international clubs to the Davidson community, encourage cooperation and contact between clubs, and foster a sense of community for these clubs. “I want the restaurant to be a culinary experience as well as a cultural experience.” --Halley Caldwell ’08

Diners will be able to learn about the sponsoring club through pamphlets, signs, and, most importantly, personal contact with club members who volunteer to help prepare and serve the meal. Diners will also be able to enjoy entertainment from that culture. “I’m really excited about teaming up with some international clubs on campus,” Caldwell said. “I want the restaurant to be both a culinary experience as well as a cultural experience.”

Hassett and Caldwell plan to bring in guest chefs from area restaurants such as Kudzu, Bonsai, and Sangam to work with the students and the advising chef from Vail Commons. The restaurant is slated to open only one Friday night a month, at least for the time being. Although Hassett asks that students “be patient if they cannot get a seat one night,” they will try to accommodate as many diners as possible, as the restaurant is intended to benefit the entire student body.

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School
Best Lawyers in America
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals
Adjunct professor of trial advocacy
Duke Law School
UNC Law School

In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

THE LAW FIRM
We Are Proud To Be Your Neighborhood Law Firm
Concentrating in Personal Injury

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. University of Richmond
Commissioner for the Town of Davidson
Commercial and North End Corridor Plan
Mecklenburg County Real Estate Executive Council
Other Areas of Practice: Appeals, Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collection, Estate Planning, Family Law, Litigation, Real Estate, Wills & Trusts