2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By ALI KARAMI RUIZ
Staff Writer

Warm, humid weather, coupled with condensation formed from air conditioners cooling rooms, caused mold to grow in Sentelle Hall during
the first few weeks of the school year. Although the problem was not widespread, Joel Hewett ’07, who lives on
the third floor of Sentelle, found mold accumulating on his room’s ceiling and experienced sore throats, headaches, and severe pressure
in his ears as a result.

“In my interactions with RLO, it felt as if my demand for a mold-free room was unreasonable ... Nobody seemed
to think that mold was hazardous, but only a nuisance.”
--Joel Hewett ‘07

Since the problem was present in several Sentelle rooms, the Residence Life Office (RLO) checked the ventilation ducts and looked
for plumbing leaks. Although there were no leaks, RLO found that air flow from the ventilation ducts needed to be
increased so condensation would not happen.

Director of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano acknowledged that the insulation in Sentelle needs to be replaced and that damp conditions
in old college buildings promote mold growth.

“I am confident that we are not only getting rid of the mold with the measures we are taking, but
we are also getting rid of the conditions that encourage the growing of mold,” Marsicano said.

The mold on Hewett’s room was treated with a chlorine solution to trap it where it was growing, in a
crack between the ceiling and one of the wooden partitions. The air conditioner was cleaned with the same chlorine solution
to prevent future growth of mold. Hewett also received a dehumidifier and an ionizer, which removes mold spores from the
air. These measures were successful in removing the mold, although a musky smell remains in Hewett’s room.

Hewett, however, was not satisfied with RLO’s response to the mold problem.

“I was displeased with the entire process,” Hewett said. “In my interactions with RLO, it felt as if my demand
for a mold-free room was unreasonable. It took multiple attempts and many days for the problem to be fixed. Nobody
seemed to think that mold was hazardous, but only a nuisance.”

The mold accumulation in Hewett’s room was so strong that one day when he had a cup of coffee, he
could actually smell the mold that had been building up in his nostrils. Hewett was offered a single in Tomlinson
but declined and instead stayed with friends. He did not believe that a room change was an appropriate solution to
the problem.

“Instead of a reactionary policy, RLO must make mold prevention a top priority,” Hewett said.

Marsicano stressed that students should not “think that they have to put up with mold.” She recommended that students report
mold and other problems as early in the day as possible so RLO and the physical plant staff, who work
from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m., can reach a solution as quickly as possible.

“The students can contact RLO anytime there is a problem that needs to be brought to our attention,” Marsicano said.

Classical Guitar Concert

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2005

Classical Spanish guitarist Francesc de Paula Soler will give a concert entitled “The Knight of the Sad Countenance/El Caballero de
la Triste Figura” on October 14 at 8 p.m. in Lilly Family Gallery of Chambers Building.

Environmental Studies Lecture

Norman Myers, a fellow at Oxford University and adjunct professor at Duke University, will speak about “The U.S. Stake in
the Global Environment” on October 17 at 7 p.m. in Tyler-Tallman Hall of the Sloan Music Center.

McGee Professor Presentation

McGee Professor of Creative Writing, Diana Hume George, will give a reading of her creative writing on October 19 at
7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room of the Union.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

9/28 Chambers Building Theft

The ITS department reported that a network cable had been removed from Chambers 1062 at 8:20 p.m. Officers are following
up with anyone that may have used the computer.

9/28 Carolina Inn Trespassing

Police were advised about a white male outside the Carolina Inn wearing nothing but a cowboy hat and underwear. Upon
arrival, the officers were able to identify the subject, who was from Mooresville. He was extremely intoxicated but cooperative and
said he had left his clothing in some bushes near the Inn. The subject was informed that he was trespassing,
and someone was called to take him home.

9/30 Belk Dormitory Theft

Student reported that unknown person(s) had unlawfully removed prescription medication from their dorm room. The bottle of Codeine and a
bottle of Amoxicillin taken were valued at $100.

9/30 Patterson Court Drive Disruptive Behavior

Officer arrested a subject at 126 Patterson Court Drive for intoxication and disruptive behavior. The subject was taken to Mecklenburg
County Intake for arrest processing.

10/1 Baker Parking Lot Vandalism

Subject reported that unknown person(s) had smashed the taillights of their vehicle, which was parked in Baker Parking Lot. Officers
are conducting an investigation.

10/1 Knox Dormitory Other

Officer observed a black RCA TV dismounted from its wall moorings on the first floor of Knox in the lounge.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety

COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS THE EARTH INSTITUTE AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY

Earn your MPA in Environmental Science and Policy

The Master of Public Administration Program in Environmental Science and Policy combines Columbia University’s hands-on approach to teaching public policy
and administration with pioneering thinking about the environment. This twelve-month program takes place at Columbia University’s New York campuses.

For more information, please call 212-854-3142, e-mail lar46@columbia.edu, or visit our Web site.

Application deadline for early decision: November 1
