Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tenured professor paints eyeballs on glasses to sleep through class SEE PAGE 2

81.6 percent of Davidson students drunk SEE PAGE 6

Field hockey statues come to life, accused of plagiarism by ‘Gargoyles’ SEE PAGE 9

Web Tree blown over by storm SEE PAGE 11

Davidson Elementary student gets head stuck in chair SEE PAGE 12

Freshman’s parents still here SEE PAGE 13

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Honor Section Editors: Bobby Kenner and Jeff Yeakel Cookie Monster: Nathan Bradshaw

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER Stay fly October 26, 2005

The Davidsonian

Controversial speakers brought in to improve attendance

Last Saturday for Fall Convocation the college brought in the Secretary of Education among controversy and protest from some of the faculty. Citing the Secretary’s apparent anti-homosexual stance on many issues, some of the faculty wore rainbow-colored ribbons in protest. Dr. Sarah Craft of the English department was one such professor who protested bringing in the Secretary to speak.

“Of course I protested, why on earth would we want an intolerant mouthpiece of the Bush propaganda train to defile our Convocation?” asked Dr. Craft. “In fact, I don’t usually even attend Fall Convocation, but I made a special exception this time just to show my outrage at this particular speaker.”

Opinions like this, however, have led some to question whether the booking of controversial speakers, like the Secretary, is an attempt by the administration to bolster attendance at school events. Studies have shown that attendance at guest speakers and lecturers has been on a steady decline in the last few years. Consequently, many think that by bringing in more controversial figures, the administration hopes to attract a larger and more passionate audience.

Some even point to the next speaker as another of the “controversial” figures. Ted Kaczynski, also known as the Unabomber, is slated to speak in the Duke Family Performance Hall on November 5 as part of the Fall Lecture Series. Already, much protest among the faculty has arisen surrounding his booking. Many professors disagree with the decision to allow Mr. Kaczynski to speak at the college.

“The man was insane,” said Dr. William Giles of the Philosophy department. “His philosophy about the negative effect of the Industrial Revolution was severely misplaced and just plain wrong.” The professors who are against having the Unabomber as a speaker have decided to all wear pins bearing the symbol of a bomb with a diagonal line slashed through it. Many also plan to attend bearing pro-Industrial Revolution posters.

“It sickens me to think we'll have to listen to this crazy man addressing our college,” said Dr. Yvonne Reed of the Anthropology department. “That’s why when I go to the speech I'll be wearing an anti-bombing pin.”

Some faculty members, on the other hand, are in favor of bringing in Mr. Kaczynski to speak. Dr. Edwin Randall of the Political Science department believes that it is not an attempt to increase attendance, but rather an attempt to increase the diversity of the speakers brought onto campus.

“We always bring in the same type of people to speak on campus,” said Dr. Randall. “It’s about time we heard from the pro-bombing side of the political spectrum.”

Dr. Anne Wilson of the Psychology department agreed with Dr. Randall. “This campus is very biased...”

---Towards the non-crazy viewpoints and life choices. Diversity should not be limited merely to skin color, religious beliefs, and political tendencies, but should be extended also to psychological conditions.” The college, however, is having trouble getting in touch with Mr. Kaczynski in order to finalize the booking because no one is willing to give him their address. If he is not able to make the speech, the college has several backup candidates which could possibly be considered including Kim Jong Il, Tom DeLay, Lenin’s corpse, Hurricane Katrina, or the Black Eyed Peas.

RLO busts several parents for noise violation

The parents of John Billingsley ’08 were charged with a noise violation on Friday night after returning to their son’s hall from the Phi Delta Theta “Parents Gone Wild” party. The report of Wilbur Jameson ’08, the RA on 4th Cannon, states that Robert ’78 and Barbara Billingsley were “playing music at an unacceptable volume, pounding on each door in the hall, and screaming obscenities out of the hall window at people walking below.” Jameson also reports that he had to confiscate a beer pong table, Billingsley '78, visiting his son on Friday night last weekend, and two cases of Milwaukee’s Best Light from the Billingsleys. When the RA approached the parents, Mr. Billingsley claimed that “the Stones rock so hard,” and Mrs. Billingsley said that Jameson “looked a little like Mick Jagger” and “she liked that.”

Angela Vazquez ’08, a resident of 3rd Cannon, agrees with the decision by Jameson to write up the parents. “I had gone to bed around one in the morning, and they woke me back up with their loud, off-key singing of ‘I Can’t Get No Satisfaction’ at 2:30 a.m. It was just ridiculous. They have real lives, can’t they do their partying someplace better than their son’s college campus?” Other residents of both 3rd and 4th Cannon expressed similar experiences of having sleep interrupted.

Billingsley himself was not present at the time of the incident. “I was in my girlfriend’s room that night, so that my parents would have a place to crash. I’m glad they had a good time, but I wish they hadn’t gotten busted. That sucks.” Although he was initially less concerned about the write-up, Billingsley lodged a protest with the Dean of Students after his parents left campus without having paid the fine, leaving it to be deducted from his Cat Card. “I’m not going to pay 50 bucks because Jameson decided to be a punk and write up my parents. Enforcing the rules is fine, but I want to hang onto my Bonus Bucks,” he said.

Dean Thomas Denton has already publicly stated that Billingsley’s protest will not be successful. “The parents were definitely violating noise policy, and we will enforce that punishment. When a student is fined and fails to pay the difference, his or her account is charged and ultimately it comes out of the parents’ pockets. All we have here is the reverse situation, and I see no reason to treat it differently.”

This was nowhere near the first such incident to take place on Parents’ Weekend. Denton suggested that some sort of policy to educate parents about campus regulations might be in order for next year’s weekend. “The first-year students at Davidson have to go through an entire education process about alcohol, sexual assault, and counseling centers before we allow them to go down to Patterson Court. What we are seeing more and more is that parents may need similar programs before we can expect them to behave responsibly in a situation where alcohol is involved. Sure, they’re legally of age, but that doesn’t mean they’ll behave themselves appropriately.” Denton’s program would require that every parent who wished to attend a court function attend an hour-long course and receive a stamp on the back of the hand indicating completion of the course, which the court organizations would have to check before allowing parents to enter a party.