THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2005

15

Volleyball, from page 16

Dykstra once again tied everything at 14-14. The Wildcats lengthened their lead to seven toward the end of the game. With a kill from Williamson on the final point, the ’Cats took the game 30-22.

Game three progressed much like the first, and despite a tie at 10-all, UNC-G did not catch up with Davidson for the rest of the game. The ’Cats went on to a 12-point lead at 29-17 before attacking errors cost the Spartans the game. The final score was 30-18, and the ’Cats won the match 3-0. As a team, Davidson finished with 41 kills, and Dykstra had 27 assists and 11 digs, giving her the sixth double-double of the season. Dwyer contributed a career-high five blocks. Williamson, Pierucci, and Dykstra had 13, nine, and eight kills, respectively. The ’Cats will take to the court next against High Point tonight at 7 p.m.

After a 1-9 start, the volleyball team has rebounded and is now 6-11.

RIBS...EAT IN OR TAKE OUT...RIBS

GOURMET FLAME BROILED ALL-BEEF “JUMBO” HOT DOGS SERVED ON GRIDDLE TOASTED ROLLS, GERMAN BRATS, SWEET ITALIAN SAUSAGE, POLISH KIELBASA & OUR OWN PORK BAR-B-QUE, BEAR’S BEST “8S8N8” PHILLY CHEESESTEAKS & CHICKENSTEAKS

9709-8 SAM FURR RD-HUNTERSVILLE, NC 1-77 EXIT 25-RT #73-"EASY OFF/EASY ON” Hours-Daily 11AM-8PM; Closed Sunday Phone Number: (704) 895-2692

www.fuzzyandbearsgri

5% Anniversary Special Coupon

20% OFF

(Take Out & Dine in Only) Not to be combined with other coupon

Wildcats score 10 goals to defeat Catawba

By MEGHAN CURTISS

Staff Writer

The field hockey team came back from a loss against Cal Berkeley last Thursday to beat Catawba 10-1 on Monday. The Wildcats’ dominating offense and defense contributed greatly to the win.

Davidson suffered a decisive loss to the Cal Golden Bears on Thursday, with a final score of 7-2.

Five second half goals allowed the Golden Bears to go ahead and take the victory in the NorPac game.

The first half of the game remained competitive, as the teams went into half-time tied 2-2.

Cal scored the preliminary goal of the night unassisted after about 16 minutes of play. Davidson responded within the next 10 minutes with a goal from co-captain Emily Davis ’06, who was assisted by Kayli Maxwell ’08.

The scorer of the previous Golden Bear goal, who scored a total of four goals over the night, responded with her second goal of the night.

Once again, Davidson played aggressively and came up with another goal, this one unassisted by Maxwell, to even the score before halftime.

The second half did not prove to be as successful for the ’Cats, as the Cal defense shut them out for the rest of the game. The Golden Bears continued their strong offense, scoring five times over the second half to lift them to victory.

In total, Cal outshot Davidson 29-8, with 14 of the Golden Bear shots coming from Godfrid. Cal also dominated in the penalty shot category 12-9. Davidson goalkeeper, co-captain Rachel Kiselewich ’06, made an outstanding 14 saves in the goal.

“Cal Berkeley is a very strong team and we definitely were able to hold our own against them. It was a frustrating game in that we hung with them for the majority of the game, and then lost it due to a very short period of breakdown,” said Kiselewich. “Overall we are very pleased with how we played. Cal’s offense and defense are both among the top in the conference, yet we were able to both score on them and defend against them. There’s a very good chance that we will see them again in the post-season, and we could not be more excited for that opportunity.”

The team fared much better on Monday, when they played against Catawba at home. Coming out strong, the team scored seven goals in the first half alone.

The first goal was scored by Maxwell and assisted by Davis less than four minutes into play.

Over the next 10 minutes, the ’Cats scored two more times, with goals scored by Eleanor Cowley ’08 and Davis. The Indians’ only goal came after about 15 minutes of play.

The offense remained strong throughout the rest of the second half, scoring four more times.

Cowley scored again, and Lauren Calve ’09 scored off an assist by Cowley. The ’Cats scored their sixth goal of the night off of a penalty corner and a shot by Carrie Lewis ’06 that was scooped over the opposing goalkeeper. The last goal of the first half came from Catherine Ransone ’08 and was unassisted.

Said Kiselewich, “It was great to find the back of the cage so many times. The game also gave us a chance to see how much depth we have on our team. Not only with the number of different people who scored, but also seeing people playing in positions they may not be used to really showed what talent we have as a team as a whole.”

The second half remained just as strong, with three Davidson goals within the first 15 minutes.

Ransone scored two consecutive goals to begin the second half, both were also unassisted. Ginnie Fridell ’08 notched the last goal of the game and the first of her career at 48:37 from a penalty corner by Liz Metzer ’07.

Davidson dominated the penalty corners and shots as well.

The ’Cats had 35 shots on goal and 10 penalty corners while Catawba was limited to two shots and three corners.

“This was a great game,” said coach Lisa Thompson. “It was well played by everyone, a real team effort. We knew we needed to bring that level of intensity on the field.”

Davidson will continue their season Friday at home at 6:30 p.m. against NorPac opponent Stanford and will play again Saturday at 2:30 p.m. against Georgetown.