4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Hours, continued from page 1

Arnold also noted that other majors would receive hours for time spent outside of class, whether for an AT session
or a writing lab. “This system would not hurt any other majors,” said Arnold, “it would only help lab-intensive majors.”

In 1968, Davidson did away with the hourly credit system that awarded course credits as a function of hours logged
per week. Since then, Davidson students have received a single course credit for each class they take. Registrar Dr. Hansford
Epes said that neither system will offer absolute fairness to students.

“Our system is not perfect and I know students in labs are spending more scheduled time for their class, but
it does not follow that they are the only students spending extra time for their classes,” said Epes. Epes emphasized
that the huge variety in course design makes “absolute fairness” an impossible goal for either a course credit or hourly
system. “I don’t know of a system on the face of the earth where every course is equal,” said Epes.

Most complaints about the present system came from science majors, who felt that the credit system should reflect the extra
time spent in lab. “I feel I’m more pressed for time when I have a lab on a day,” said
Jessica Lahre ’07, a biology major. “I think there should be a credit per hour system so that students would
get credit for everything from labs to AT sessions.”

Graham Honeycutt ’06, a Spanish major, showed far less concern over changing the credit system to reflect extra time commitments
outside of class. “I wouldn’t say I’m against a different system,” said Honeycutt. “I just don’t care that much. I
took my one lab and I’m done.”

The course credit system is not unique to Davidson. “Our system may look wild and unique, but it’s not. It
is characteristic of most of the top liberal arts schools,” said Epes. Many top schools, including Harvard, use course credit
systems similar to Davidson.

Biology professor Karen Bernd supports a system that recognizes all course commitments that are outside the usual 50 minutes. “If
the answer compensates for all the extra hours spent outside the 50 minutes in class, then it would be fair,”
said Bernd.

Davidson alum Dr. Craig White ’82 expressed reservations about switching toward an hourly system. “I just don’t remember Davidson emphasizing
course hours,” said White. A graduate of Harvard Medical School, White worried that an hourly system would discourage pre-medical students
from taking other classes. White fondly recalled taking a diversity of courses at Davidson outside of the pre-medicine track. “I
wouldn’t want to keep pre-med students from taking other courses,” said White. “If science courses are heavily weighted, then science
majors might be inclined to take fewer courses in other areas.”

Arnold stressed that he has plans to further research the issue before he takes any action. “This is my preliminary
opinion, and I feel I need to talk with Dean Shandley, President Vagt, and most importantly the student body in
order to better understand the situation.”

APPLICATIONS INVITED FOR THE KEMP SCHOLARS PROGRAM

The office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs encourages students from the classes of 2006, 2007, and 2008 to
apply for the 2005 Kemp Scholars program. Sponsored by Bank of America, up to four Kemp Scholars each receive $2,000
in reimbursable expenses to support independent study, travel, and research, plus a cash award of $1,000. Frequently, projects have had
an international focus with the award sponsoring summer travel outside the U.S., however, domestic projects are also welcome. Research topics
from any and all disciplines are eligible. Professor Mark C. Foley in the Department of Economics is the current program
director and more information, includingThe application form can be found on his website. (Navigate to the Department of Economics home
page.) Proposals are due March 11th.

Sub-free, continued from page 1

The body moved into Executive Session for final debate and decision-making. The SGA proposal reads, “The substance-free by freshman hall
option proposed by the substance-free committee will be installed for one year only (2005-2006); the roommate option ... will be
enacted at the beginning of the 2006-2007 academic year, and then totally reevaluated by the SGA in the spring semester
of that year.”

According to the roommate option proposed by SGA senators Mac Skelton ’07 and Jack Hubbard ’06, first-year students can “indicate
no preference as to desiring a non-drinking roommate or not, request a non-drinking roommate, or request a non-drinking roommate who
is also willing to make a binding agreement not to drink throughout the year.” These roommate pairs would be dispersed
among freshman halls.

Skelton was pleased with the SGA’s decision. “The substance-free by freshman hall option proposed by the substance-free committee will be
installed for one year only (2005-2006); the roommate option ... will be enacted at the beginning of the 2006-2007 academic
year, and then totally reevaluated by the SGA in the spring semester of that year.” --text of SGA’s sub-free proposal

Other issues influencing the committee’s recommendation included the demand for cleaner and quieter living space, valid concern about fragmentation due
to isolation, location’s effect on the desirability of sub-free housing, the possibility of sub-free housing reducing students' “social education,” and
the critical need for such options for first-year students.

Based on these issues, the group made three recommendations: first-year students would still have the option of living on sub-free
halls, which would be dispersed throughout different buildings; upperclassmen sub-free housing would be completely discontinued; and all of the housing
options would be better publicized to the Davidson community. The committee also argued that sub-free halls spread around campus would
increase interaction between drinkers and non-drinkers.

From his own experience, however, Skelton argued that the hall solution would not go far enough. “I was on one
of two substance-free halls in Richardson last year. There was very little interaction between the three regular halls and the
two substance-free halls.” He said, “The substance-free by freshman hall solution is a step in the right direction, but it
is eventually self-defeating. If drinkers and non-drinkers are taught to live separately freshman year, how can they be expected to
live together in the following three?”

The proposal of sub-free by freshman hall was proposed by the task force committee formed to discuss sub-free housing options
earlier this year. The committee looked at options at comparable institutions, engaged in focus group discussions, and conducted a student
survey in forming their recommendation. While many factors guided the committee’s recommendation, they were particularly surprised to find that minority
students make up a disproportionate percentage of sub-free housing, “with 63 percent of Asian-American students and 53 percent of African-American
students choosing this option.”

Another proposal presented to the SGA was submitted by freshman Senator Joshua Choi. Choi’s proposal supported leaving the current sub-free
housing system untouched, but it received little enthusiasm among the SGA senators.

According to Skelton, plans are also underway to overhaul freshman programming to “promote respect, friendship, and understanding between drinkers and
non-drinkers and, more generally, between every behavioral, social, racial, and religious group on campus.” He hopes that reevaluation of freshman
programming will help “shape the social environment through hall counselors and freshmen programming, as preparation for the following three years.”

THE LATEST NEWS ON CAMPUS... JUST WAITING FOR YOU TO REPORT IT. Write News. Email libarry.
