DAVIDSON COLLEGE

The Davidsonian

[ First Class
U.S. Postage Paid
PERMIT #1
Davidson, NC

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2005

VOLUME 96, NUMBER 15

Rushdie tells the story of his writing life

By JACKIE MCKEON
News Editor

British novelist Salman Rushdie delivered the Davidson College Connarroe Lecture in the Duke Family Performance Hall last night.

Rushdie intended his lecture to be a literary event in which he would talk about his experiences in becoming a writer.

“I want to talk about beginnings,” he said. “My beginnings and formations as a writer.” He used the story “1,001 Nights” and his early living quarters in a “Toblerone box” attic to frame his narrative.

Students had an overwhelmingly positive reaction to Rushdie’s lecture.

Tessa Davis ’06 approved of Rushdie’s focus on his early development as a writer. “I found the talk of beginnings pertinent to college students,” she said.

In 1988, Rushdie published “Satanic Verses,” a novel that was banned throughout India for its supposed blasphemy against Islam.

See Rushdie, page 2

Irwin Dormitory is one of the three sophomore apartments students say is in need of renovation.

The real Sophomore slump

Salman Rushdie signs a student’s book after his talk last night. The talk was sold out and had to be simulcast in two overflow rooms.

First-place Mock Trial team braves snow, ices competition
Next stop is nationals in Iowa

By BEN WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

Davidson’s Mock Trial Association braved snow and ice over the weekend to post a first-place performance in the South Atlantic Regional Mock Trial Tournament held in Greenville, S.C.

The victory earns Davidson its first trip to the National Championship Tournament held annually in Des Moines, Ia.

After the first round of the competition on Friday, ice storm warnings left the team debating whether or not to return to campus. The team ultimately decided to compete even if it meant an extra night in the Greenville area.

Led by co-captains Joseph Adams ’05 and Andrea Wood ’07, Davidson defeated a Furman team that is ranked as one of the top ten teams in the nation.

“Needless to say, it was the right decision to remain in Greenville to finish the competition,” said Wood.

“We have enjoyed this case and that might have helped more than anything else,” said Adams, who praises the commitment of his team members.

“We’ve had people go to talk with psychology professors because the case deals with psychiatry problems,” said Adams.

Adams, the team’s only senior, won an outstanding attorney award at the competition.

See Mock Trial, page 5

By Liz BARRY
News Editor

Difficulties with room temperature control and a recent heating failure have sparked concern among students who live in Akers, Irwin, and Knox, the dorms known as the Sophomore Apartments.

A breakdown on Jan. 18 forced students from several halls to sleep without heat as the temperature outside dipped below 17 degrees Fahrenheit.

The extreme conditions prompted several students to find warm beds in other dorms or check into a local hotel.

George Kallop, father of Liz Kallop ’07, supported his daughter’s decision to check into a hotel for the night and encouraged her to bring friends from the hall.

“I was annoyed that something like this could happen at Davidson, and I was particularly annoyed that

See Apartments, page 4

Admissions sees drop in int'l apps
Visa grant issues, financial problems cited as possible causes

By BEN WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

Post-9/11 tightening on visa grants has reduced the number of foreign nationals who apply to post-secondary institutions in the United States.

Admission data suggests that Davidson is beginning to feel the effects of this drop in applications.

While Davidson has received record numbers of overall applications in each of the past two years, the number of international applications has declined.

Davidson received 327 international applications in 2004 in comparison to 374 in 2002.

“We’ve seen a slight downturn over the last couple of years,” said Wookie Payne, the Director of Multicultural Recruitment. “In general, most places are seeing a downturn as a result of several things, including 9/11 and the tightening of visa grants.”

Mike Tellis ’07, the president of the Davidson International Association, applied to Davidson from India.

“I had a bunch of high school friends who got into schools but were

Despite record numbers of applications in the last few years, numbers for international applications have been decreasing.

PERSPECTIVES: Sounding off on sub-free housing
SEE PAGE 11

Davidson’s new senior housing
THE PINES AT DAVIDSON
YOWL, PAGE 9

The state of world hunger
Oxfam
A&L, PAGE 6

Why Wilson hates the Super Bowl
SPORTS, PAGES 12