. ARTS & LIVING

Tea for two:
By Katie HUNTER
Staff Writer

Friday afternoons, often reserved for frolicking, fun, or much-needed naps, are a little bit different at 559 Concord Road. Rather
than discussing their weekend plans, students gather at the home of McGee Director of Dean Rusk International Studies and Associate
Professor of Political Science Chris Alexander to converse about international issues affecting their daily lives, all while enjoying some tea,
tasty treats, and good company.

At these “Tea Time” discussions, held every other Friday afternoon, the topics range from last semester’s “Democracy in Iraq: Impractical
Dream to Idealistic Possibility?” to last week’s “Genocide and the U.N.: Is Prevention Possible?”

“We usually take a look at what’s going on in the news or what’s going on around campus to select
a topic,” says Lee Anthony ’07, Co-Chair of the Dean Rusk Student Advisory Council. Anthony feels that Tea Times are
a wonderful forum for students to discuss subjects important to them, but also thinks “they are a good place to
learn more about issues that you might have little or no knowledge about.” “Even if you just come to a
Tea Time to listen, you'll come away knowing so much more about a topic than you did before.”

Dr. Alexander agrees, saying, “We also try to diversify the issues to get away from the Political Science and Economic
slant, so as to appeal to all students.” He is pleased with this year’s Tea Time turnouts, “These have been
the most well-attended discussions we’ve had since they started.”

Dr. Alexander thought up the idea for Tea Time after coming to teach at Davidson three years ago. “I noticed
the divide between the Dean Rusk Program and the students,” he said. “I felt as if they saw it purely
as a program that provided grants and hosted speakers.” Dr. Alexander envisioned “Tea Time” as a way to “bridge the
gap between what people learn in the classroom and what they do in their daily lives,” as part of what
he considers a “full liberal arts education.”

Gathered in his cozy living room on comfy couches and chairs, students shared their opinions last week about why the
United Nations has taken relatively little action to stop the Darfur genocide. Nate Shestak ’07, who coordinated the “Darfur at
Davidson” week, stated that the West’s inaction is indicative of its uncaring attitude toward the African situation. He also noted
that a new clause in the U.N.’s sanctions on genocide “are sorely lacking” when it comes to allowing for preventative
measures to be taken against the mass killings. Joseph Adams ’06 asked if there should be a requirement or realization
of possible results before intervention, or whether countries should intervene regardless of the outcome.

Performance quenches ‘A Thirst’
By MIKE WELLMAN
Special Contributor

Arriving at the theater on Sunday afternoon, I honestly did not know too much about the play “A Thirst.” I’d
been told to see it by a friend, and while I knew that the topic was disability rights, I was
convinced when the play was described as being “worth seeing.” “A Thirst,” directed by Athena Stevens ’06, was well worth
seeing for entertainment and to increase understanding of life issues as a disabled person. The production benefited the Sunflower Foundation,
a charity that, among other activities, aims to promote awareness of disability rights and tutors disabled children in Budapest, Hungary.

“A Thirst” emphasized that a major problem of the treatment of people with disabilities is that many choose to brush
aside the issue and simply ignore the existence of those who are disabled. The play not only points out the
pain that is associated with this treatment, but also the fact that it is entirely possible in a matter of
moments to move from being perfectly healthy to all of a sudden being placed in a situation that they had
never dreamed possible. AnotherHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The theme of the play was that people with disabilities long to be treated as equals. In one scene, a
woman laments the fact that she is treated as an asexual being, when she too wishes to be cherished and
loved as a woman by someone else. This issue is also present in the scenes in which those with disabilities
feel powerless or forced to succumb to the insensitivities of others. Being commended when one doesn’t deserve praise because of
a disability or not being thought of at all is hurtful even if good intentions were in mind when people
act this way.

The play also explored the psychological handicap that is imposed on those with disabilities. Athena herself tells of the problems
that she has dealt with in which she has compared herself to the standard image of perfection that is never
achieved except for on magazine covers. Athena makes the observation that, while there is no cure for her disability, many
of the issues associated with the disability can and should be prevented from causing emotional harm.

Kevin Bell ’05 narrated a science fiction story in which a cure for all health problems exists, as people have
the ability to live forever in perfect health. This future turns out to be bleaker than expected, however, as the
people sink into paranoia and lose their ability to appreciate the wonders of the world. The implied message is that
humans were never meant to achieve perfection, and that by shedding the prejudice of perfection, we would be able to
enjoy more fulfilling lives.

Though the play powerfully delivered a worthwhile message, it had an occasional tendency to fly into the abstract, so that
it could sometimes be difficult to understand completely. This problem did not occur often, however, and did not hamper the
understanding of the play’s message. The actors in the play did fantastic jobs, delivering their lines with a passion that
demonstrated honest care for the topic of the play. “A Thirst” was a thoroughly enjoyable production, and its message of
understanding of the issues of disabilities will hopefully reach fruition.

The group also discussed logistical possibilities of interference in the crisis, as well as the void in international action being
taken to stop it. Though opinions noticeably differed, the one consistent element of Tea Time is that the discussion is
entirely student-led. Dean Rusk Fellow Hannah Fuhr ’04 regards this as a good thing, because “students can speak their minds
freely.”

“This year, there has been a diverse group of people at Tea Times,” says Fuhr, “rather than the same core
people we’d have at meetings during the last couple of years.” She requests that students R.S.V.P for Tea Times and
caps them at 20 students, in order to make the setting more comfortable. “One thing that makes them attractive is
that you can sit on a couch in a nice living room,” she says. “I don’t think as many people
would come if they were held in the Union.”

Students are also welcome to some delicious treats and tea before discussion time, which are generously provided by Dr. Alexander
and his wife. Discussions last from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m., but students are welcome to stay for a while after
if there is more they’d wish to say about a given topic. Though last week’s Tea Time was the final
one of the year, students will have the opportunity to attend next semester, when they start again in the fall.

“More people should come out and not feel intimidated about it,” says Anthony, “because Tea Times really are a great
way to share, learn, and become more aware of what’s going on in the world.”

WANT TO EDIT FOR ARTS & LIVING NEXT SEMESTER? We'll pay you $20 and a pound of carrion flesh. It’s
really not that bad, we swear.
