THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2005

PERSPECTIVES

Staff Editorial

Mid-semester progress report

With this issue marking the publication of half this semester’s Davidsonians, here is our update on some of the major issues to date:

Sophomore apartments: F
Three weeks have passed since we ran a front-page story exposing student concerns about Akers, Irwin, and Knox dormitories. These dormitories suffer from a variety of maladies: cockroaches on occasion, heating and other temperature control problems, high rate of vandalism, poor lighting, and poor air circulation. In addition, they are the only dorms on campus lacking sinks in individual rooms or suites, and the rooms are relatively small. To compound things, the dormitories have not been renovated since 1996, so they are nearing the end of the 10-year renovation cycle. Yet despite becoming an SGA campaign issue, since our story no administrator has publicly acknowledged a problem. RLO has proven adept at short-term solutions to some of the recurring problems, but it seems unwilling to address the more intractable longer-term ones. Major sophomore apartment renovation or replacement needs to be a residence life priority, if not an institutional one.

Trustee change: A
The Trustee vote was long overdue. Some still think the decision is wrong, while others think a quota preserving such a strong Christian majority is still unjust or unrepresentative. At the very least, it’s progress.

Sub-free housing: A-
We would like to report that a decision has been made on the substance-free housing issue. That is not possible, because the initial RLO committee and SGA have elected to present different proposals, which now go to the CCRL. Both plans abolish upper-classman sub-free. The RLO result preserves a sub-free hall system, where a floor of a building may be sub-free but the whole building may not. The SGA resolution adopts this system for a year, then transitions into a plan where incoming first-years may request a sub-free roommate, and these pairs will be distributed throughout first-year housing. The plans are reasonable and represent a positive change. We wish only that after all the ruckus and divisiveness this issue has caused, a consensus could have formed around a single plan. We anxiously await the CCRL’s and President Vagt’s final decisions.

Spring Break: D-
As many of us prepare to head off to uncrowded beaches with water that may still be too cold to enjoy, it’s hard not to grumble about the administration for our unreasonably early break. We know that the dates are changed for 2007, but with students (and many professors) seemingly in agreement on the inconveniences of “spring” break in February, it’s hard to swallow for this year and next.

The Davidsonian
@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel

Mike Giglio
News Editors
Liz Barry, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia

Perspectives Editor
Matt Bandy

Arts & Living Editors
Elizabeth Burkhead & Sara Sams

Sports Editors
Wilson M.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SGA campaign tactics unseemly
While I understand that candidates need to distinguish themselves, the recent election has demonstrated the extremes to which candidates should not go to achieve this objective. I think we ought to denounce breaches of decency in our electoral process. Fortunately, the student body did not favor such paltry tactics. Still, we should not discount the fact that a smear campaign took place during one of the most important elections at Davidson College, the race for the president of SGA. Acts such as putting a sign up in the Union that implies that your contenders do not favor diversity espouse a disrespectful and inappropriate message. At best, it can be compared to tactics that a petty politician uses to polarize the voters and to make them forget the real issues. There are enough people who are cynical about SGA. I would like to applaud the candidates who faced ridicule yet kept to the issues.
John Helms ’07

Artist Series not a waste of money
As current Artist Series chair for the Union Board, I have to disagree with the conclusion reached in the Feb. 16 staff editorial that the Artist Series is “wasting student money.” I agree that it would be better for the money not to be financed by ATC; the author’s suggestion that the Artist Series be run more like WDAV is an excellent suggestion. Everyone must understand, however, that other options have been investigated. It is unfortunate that more students do not attend Artist Series events. This is an ample opportunity for students to experience first-rate performing arts. Yes, the ticket price does act as a hindrance for student participation, but ways to lower the ticket price have been thoroughly investigated (e.g. grants for funding). Yet even if one was to agree “every student at Davidson is paying roughly $25 in all each year for the events whether or not they want to attend,” the price is still a good deal. Furthermore, if students had taken advantage of the student subscription to the series offered at the beginning of the year (for $33 total), then each of the four shows would cost little more than $8 to attend! To clarify a common misconception, the Artist Series events have in the past been chosen by a group of faculty, staff, students, and community members. However, next year’s featured artists are the result of a student-only committee. I encourage every student to attend an Artist Series event and make your own opinion. In April, Davidson will be hosting Latin jazz performer Poncho Sanchez and his band. I hope to see you there.
Erin Stephens ’05
Union Board Artist Series Chair

Columnist wrong about Churchill
Ashish George wrote in the Feb. 16 “Freedom not free for college professors” how Ward Churchill, professor at the University of Colorado, Boulder, does not deserve to be fired for speaking out.about 9/11. Yes, Mr. George, this is very true. However, Mr. George’s column is way off-base; Professor Churchill’s outspokenness on 9/11 and the “Little Eichmanns” is not the reason his job is in question. Mr. Churchill is a fraud; as director of the University of Colorado’s Native American Studies Department, Churchill claims to be 1/16 or 3/16 Cherokee. However, there is no evidence to back him up. In the past and present, Mr. Churchill uses his supposed “Cherokee heritage” to gain work; this is how he got on the tenure track, fraudulently, at the University of Colorado. Mr. Churchill achieved tenure at Colorado without earning a doctorate; the reason for this was mainly his supposed Cherokee heritage. Presently with tenure, Mr. Churchill has been repeatedly accused of academic fraud. A professor at Texas Tech University, reading Churchill’s work, found stories about a massacre of an Indian settlement by the U.S. Cavalry. In searching for the citations, the professor found documents that had nothing to do with massacres of any sort; Mr. Churchill concocted a “massacre” that never occurred and erroneously cited this “information.” Mr. George, Ward Churchill is an academic fraud. Colorado Governor Bill Owens is absolutely correct in his desire for the removal of Mr. Churchill from the University of Colorado. Stupid opinion on 9/11 or not, I will not pay my “buck-o-five” to hear an academic fraud make up massacre stories.

Bobby DeMuro ’08

Contrary to story, Honor Council and professors not at odds

The Davidsonian’s Feb. 9 article entitled “Professors question Honor Council” has the potential to mislead readers into thinking that most faculty members do not trust the judgment of the Honor Council. Moreover, the subtitle of the article adds to its deceptive tone: “Many have stopped reporting plagiarism cases due to policies.” We would like to present three assertions in response to the article: first, the vast majority of professors have not stopped reporting cases to the Honor Council; second, regarding the issue of intent, the Council does not view lack of intent in plagiarism as a mitigating circumstance for a plagiarized paper; third, we would like to affirm, once again, that the Council has a very high opinion of professors’ professional judgment.

First, in my experience in over 20 Honor Council hearings, I (Chris) have not found it to be true that most professors distrust the Council’s judgment. Rather, the vast majority of professors, though not all, have approved of our actions. I can only speak from my experience, and I cannot vouch for cases which occurred seven years ago. As the article showed, there is no doubt that there are a handful of professors who mistrust the Honor Council and disagree with the way that the Council has handled some hearings. No one on the Council would claim that we have the capability of making everyone happy in every decision we make. We will not pretend that tensions do not exist between some faculty members and the Council. However, we can confidently assert that the Honor Council has not given “each professor” a “bad taste” by our decisions in hearings. To prove this, we intend to present a survey in the coming weeks to all professors who have been involved in hearings within the last several years. We do not want to represent falsely the sentiments of the entire faculty and would like to allow them to express their individual opinions.

Second, the Council would agree with Dr. Sally McMillen’s statement: “Either you plagiarize or you don’t — the words speak for themselves.” The article’s tone made it sound as if the Honor Council lets students off the hook if they did not “intend” to plagiarize. To the contrary, the Council has not, in our tenure with the Council, declared a student not guilty if he or she did not “intend” to plagiarize. Rather, the Honor Council acknowledges that each student is responsible for knowing completely his or her professor’s (and the Honor Code’s) policies on plagiarism; moreover, we believe that every student should be held accountable for the work which he or she turns in. To substantiate our assertion of the Council’s stance on plagiarism, we can refer to the three plagiarism cases which we have seen in the past year. One student pled not guilty; the Council found the individual guilty and gave the student an indefinite suspension. Two others pled guilty; one received an F in the course along with three authorized withdrawals, and the other received an F in the course. Without compromising the students’ privacy, we hope that such responses to plagiarism show that we do not take plagiarism lightly, nor do we pretend to be able to discern accurately the intent of a student in plagiarism.

Third, we would like to confirm that the Council has immense respect for the faculty. Professors have amazed us on several occasions by showing how knowledgeable they are in their respective fields. We are no longer surprised when a faculty member recognizes an odd word in a student’s writing, and then points to a 20-year-old journal article to find where a student plagiarized. Professors’ opinions often sway the Council’s decisions, according to what he or she says about a student’s offense. We have no doubt that each Council member leaves hearings more in awe of professors’ judgment than skeptical of it. While we feel that the article misrepresented the scope of divisions between the faculty and the Council, professor apprehensions are not taken lightly. We hope to build mutual trust and understanding through increased dialogue in the form of an open forum planned for later this semester. We also encourage faculty members to talk to their department liaisons or directly to the chair and vice chair about any concerns they might have.

Chris Knowles ’05 & David Crane ‘06
Past and Current Honor Council Chairs