12 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2005

TRUMBO’S PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat Game of the Week
Saturday at 2:00 p.m.
Men’s Soccer vs. Old Dominion

After a 5-1-1 start to the season, it’s hard to argue against choosing men’s soccer. The team obviously knows how to win close games both at home and on the road. Old Dominion, however, is a tough team who beat the ’Cats 2-0 last year. If you like good soccer, Alumni Stadium at 2 p.m. is the place to be.

Outside the Den
NFL
Sunday at 4:15 p.m. on CBS
New England at Pittsburgh

Nathan Bradshaw wants to equate football and baseball. A fellow can’t be right all the time. When the MLB playoffs start, I'll start paying attention and picking games. In the meantime, a repeat champion who has looked shaky in the young season goes to play against a title contender who has looked anything but shaky. My pick? The Pats can’t be good forever; I’m choosing Pittsburgh at home.

“You're crazy.” That’s the standard reply I hear from people when I say I think it would be fun to be a NASCAR driver. I get the same reaction from my friends whenever I invite them to come with me to the Friday night races at Williams Grove Speedway, a tiny track less than three miles from my home. Not everyone wants to come home deaf from country music and engine noise, and covered from head to toe in track grit. But even if I don’t end up finding someone to accompany me, I can hear the cars and the crowd loud and clear from my bedroom window, roaring late into the night. It’s a sound I’ve learned to love—the sound of speed.

The past few years have been revolutionary in the world of NASCAR. Since 1990, racing has surpassed all other national professional sports in terms of growth, with a whopping 91 percent increase, and has begun to eradicate the stereotype that it is only appealing to hicks and good ol’ boys in the rural South. Unfortunately, because of the increase in popularity, several historically important and traditionally Southern tracks, such as Rockingham, have been replaced by tracks in California, Chicago, and the Northeast in an effort to promote the sport in other parts of the U.S. Unocal, the long-time fuel provider, was replaced by Sunoco, and the Darlington Southern 500, traditionally held on Labor Day, was moved to November.

These changes, largely instituted by Brian France, son of former CEO Bill France Jr. and grandson of the sport's founding father, Bill France Sr., have caused an uproar within the racing world since he has stepped up to the NASCAR throne. His newest addition, the Chase for the Cup, has been no less controversial. I’ve heard racing referred to as playing chess at 200 miles an hour, which would be hard enough without 42 other drivers playing with you, often six inches from your bumper.

From the Sideline
SPORTS COMMENTARY

To keep the sport interesting, there are always new rules being formed to prevent one car from being mechanically superior to the others. How entertaining is it when the same driver wins every race by twenty laps? That’s why, since 2004, the Jeff Gordons and Tony Stewarts of the world haven’t been getting away with winning every race, and the NEXTEL Cup, so easily.

Since its inception, NASCAR’s championship (formerly Winston Cup, now NEXTEL Cup) has been given to the driver with the most earned points on the season. With the new changes, each winner receives 180 points instead of 175, ensuring that he will always earn more than the runner-up. (Drivers can also earn bonus points for leading one lap and leading the most laps.) In the Chase, which began on Sunday at the New Hampshire International Speedway, the last 10 races will be driven for points by the top 10 drivers only, as well as any within a 400 point range of the leader. This year, no drivers past Kurt Busch, No. 10 in points, were able to come within the cutoff and enter the Chase. Popular drivers such as Dale Earnhardt Jr., who has his home only a few miles away in Mooresville, and California-raised Jeff Gordon, were left out of the last 10 races, coming in 15th and 12th, respectively. This has fans, who are usually staunchly loyal to one particular driver, upset at the new structure.

Unfortunately for them, the Chase seems to have been a competition-booster for NASCAR, something that makes the higher-ups very happy. They have been worried that the old system promoted consistency and not winning. For example, in 2003, Matt Kenseth took home the NEXTEL Cup championship title despite only one first place finish. By placing within the top-10 in 25 races that season, he was able to score the greatest amount of points and beat out Jimmie Johnson, who won three races and finished in the top-five more times than Kenseth. Consistency, Brian France decided, had noplace in race car driving, and so the “new era” was born. Last year, the inaugural Chase for the NEXTEL Cup had the closest margin of victory for any driver, ever. Kurt Busch ended up winning just eight points ahead of Jimmie Johnson and 16 in front of Jeff Gordon. As far as competition is concerned, it could not have been better. Next week, the remaining 10 drivers will compete at Dover International Speedway in the MBNA RacePoints 400. Busch will attempt once again to defend his title, after crashing to a 35th place finish on Sunday. Tony Stewart will try to back up his runner-up loss to Ryan Newman and start another hot streak. Gordon and Earnhardt Jr. fans will try to decide which top-10 driver to root for—that is, which they hate the least. In the words of the immortal George Jones, the race is on.

Saints dedicate play to New Orleans
By WILL BRYAN
Staff Writer

Sports imitate life. On the playing field, we learn to persevere, work together, and love our enemy after the final buzzer; however, for the second time in five years that our nation has had a gut check, sports have once again come to the headlines by being pushed from the headlines. Relief efforts and fundraisers have inundated the usually overly-hyped world of sports media. Instead of analyzing zone coverages, Chris Berman is talking about the human lives of athletes. And in the middle of all the hype is a group of hard-working individuals known as the New Orleans Saints.

In the football world, the Saints have been synonymous with mediocrity and failure. The last several years conjure many images of fans leaving games with paper bags over their heads as their beloved team let another victory slip away. But within the last two weeks, as controversy has arisen over political action and societal chaos, a nation has turned its eyes to a group of athletes in the hope that they will redeem and encourage us to push forward.

There is certainly empirical evidence to suggest that sports have influenced popular culture and trends in a way that has had a profound impact on the way that we, as Americans, approach our daily lives. In that light, I am not here to argue whether or not the Saints’ 2005 season should or should not be influential in the physical and psychological rebuilding of one of our nation’s most notable landmarks. The sports of this country have and will continue to write a side story in the annals of American history about how they deal with this disaster.

As a radical sports fan, I continue to carry distinctive memories of my childhood happiness that were indelibly influenced by the performances of my favorite teams. When I look saddened on Monday mornings, it is not because of my stressful workload or the fact that it is Monday, but rather the outcome of the several teams that I dedicate myself to every weekend. The spring break of my freshman year will always be a horrible memory because of the Davidson basketball team’s loss in the Southern Conference tournament.

Saints fans will live and die with their team this year, like most other fans. But somehow, all of us will realize how important that cycle now becomes. And it is at this point that I raise a fundamental exclamation of caution.

In a recent ESPN magazine article, Saints returner Michael Lewis concluded that “you can give with your wallet, but these people [in New Orleans] need more. Some hope. We have to be great. Katrina left us no choice.” If the Saints have to win for their city, then to what torment does that leave the rest of the NFL and its fans? Surely, the people of the Carolinas, myself included, are torn at the suffering in New Orleans and want to do all we can to help the city.

Their victory last Sunday certainly reenergized the efforts of New Orleans natives. But what happens if the Panthers block John Carney’s game-winning field goal two weeks ago? How do I feel if I know that my team has been the active cause of not joy but discouragement? When the Giants beat the Saints last Monday, surely the perfection of having America’s team succeed for its people has been lost. We want New Orleans rebuilt. We want fellow Americans to succeed in rebuilding their lives. But now the symbol of all those hopes has been defeated, by people who care.

The osmosis of sports into the rest of our lives has reached an unforgiving Catch-22. If we root for our favorite team against the Saints, then we ultimately conflict with the hopes of the tormented. If we concede victory for a greater cause, then the structure and integrity of competition in American sports has been irreversibly compromised.

Any possible solutions seem hard and unrewarding. Perhaps sports really do imitate life after all.