The DAVIDSONIAN

Soup, service, and singing

HAMMERS raises over $5,000 at benefit lunch.

By Lauren CONN
Staff Writer

On Saturday, members of the Davidson College community flooded the Brown Atrium for soup, service, and singing to benefit the service organization HAMMERS (Hands Around Mecklenburg Making Emergency Repairs Safely). The atmosphere was friendly as all embraced the opportunity to compare the soups, share their favorites with their friends, and decide which should be the winner. HAMMERS sold 376 tickets and raised over $5,600, according to Sarah Caitlin Mattingly '06. Mattingly, who helped create HAMMERS and organize the Souper Bowl, was happy with the turnout for the event.

Others were pleased with the event as well. Pam Krehnbrink, a community member present at the Souper Bowl, said, “The soup is wonderful, but my favorite part of the day has been meeting new people.”

Max and Erma’s won best soup in the creative category with Spicy Chicken Tortilla. Longhorn Steakhouse Lake Norman won the best creamy soup category with Loaded Baked Potato. A surprise third category of best overall soup was given to The Prickly Pear for their Cream of Corn and Poblano.

HAMMERS is a partnership between Davidson Housing Coalition, Our Towns Habitat for Humanity, and the College. Mattingly believes HAMMERS has a lot to offer students involved. “HAMMERS gives students the opportunity to help the community while learning new skills and bonding with other students,” she said.

HAMMERS strives to provide safe housing for the surrounding neighborhood. Qualifications for emergency repair through HAMMERS include people with special needs such as the elderly, disabled, single parent, or households with five or more inhabitants including children. Households within the communities of Huntersville, Cornelius, Davidson, and Mooresville that earn less than 80 percent of area median income will be eligible for assistance.

Rosie Molinary, chair of the HAMMERS Steering Committee and director of commu-

See Soup, page 4

Students sample and vote for various soups at the Souper Bowl.

Red and Black Ball raises money, awareness

By CAREY BAXTER
Staff Writer

Students, faculty, and community members gathered in Chambers Gallery Saturday for an evening of dancing, desserts, and art perusing at the second annual Red and Black Ball, hosted by Adopt-a-Country AIDS Campaign and Warner Hall Eating House. The social chairs of Warner Hall estimate that the event raised $10,000. “This number is a little less than last year, but I think the event was a huge success,” said Warner Hall Social Chair Lindsay deCastrique '07.

All proceeds from the ball and art auction benefited Metrolina AIDS Project and the Mapendo of Sudan. In addition to raising money, a major goal of the Red and Black Ball is to bring together students, faculty, and community members for a common cause. “We hope that the evening brought about an awareness of a very important issue that affects everyone, both on local and international levels,” said deCastrique.

President Bobby Vagt donated the band, Sunset Drive, which played a mix of contemporary and big band-style songs. Disc jockeys from WALT radio station volunteered their time for a portion of the evening. Local bakeries donated the desserts and refreshments, and Davidson students contributed their own works of art for the silent art auction.

“It was very nice to see everyone dressed up for a change,” Matt Scott ’08 said. “The food was great, and the fact that the proceeds went to benefit people with AIDS spoke very well of Warner Hall and Davidson College.”

Director of Public Safety Fountain Walker and Assistant Director of Public Safety Jonathan Sarver also donated their time so that Warner Hall only had to pay for the one other officer on duty. Ed Kania, President of the Board of the Metrolina AIDS Project (MAP), spoke briefly about the goals of theorganization. Founded in 1985, MAP is the Charlotte region’s leading provider of case management, support services, prevention education, and direct financial assistance to people living with HIV/AIDS. MAP seeks to help those affected by HIV/AIDS and strives to prevent further spread of the disease through services, education, and client advocacy. Sasha Chanoff, founder and executive director of Mapendo, also addressed the attendees. Mapendo, an organization with a medical clinic based in Kenya, seeks “to keep alive HIV positive refugees [from Sudan, Somalia, Ethiopia, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and other countries] who have fallen through the net of humanitarian assistance.”

NEWS
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2005

Senators discuss options for sub-free housing
By Emily Kota
Staff Writer

On Thursday, SGA representatives continued discussing possible changes in sub-free housing options. Allocating funds for the Senior Class party and the Diversity Coordinating Committee and reviewing the Treasurer’s Report were also on the agenda. Additionally, plans for April at the Lake are underway.

Sam Spencer ’07 presented a resolution regarding sub-free housing. While the SGA is planning to wait until poll results are finalized to discuss the matter in depth and write a resolution, the proposal prompted much conversation on the subject. SGA President Katharine Hubbard ’05 was quick to establish that as representatives, “we can’t let our own personal opinions dictate our actions as members of SGA.”

A town-meeting style forum was proposed as a way to further dialogue regarding sub-free housing. Some senators, such as Francois Trappey ’06, believe a town-hall meeting would provide a conducive setting to present results of the poll to the student body. Others voiced concern that this format might primarily attract students polarized on the issue. The senators also questioned the viability and quality of the poll altogether. Senators expressed concerns about possible biases in the survey technique and the diversity of students who completed the poll.

Senators shared personal opinions and anecdotes regarding the issue as well. Some cited sub-free housing as a divisive force on campus. They believe that the current situation prohibits students with different opinions from learning from one another. Senators also had concerns about the influence of dorm location preferences affecting student selection of sub-free housing. The discussion will continue to be a topic of contentious debate for the SGA and the entire student body.

Residence life related topics, such as cable TV and the housing lottery, were also discussed. Claire DeBord ’05 proposed the allocation of money for the Senior Class’ annual “beer truck” party. While the party is completely funded by parent donations, money is needed for expenses related to postage and informational mailings. The motion was approved.

The Diversity Coordinating Committee requested funds for expenses. The motion was also approved. The committee is currently funded by SGA funds, limiting their budget. The possibility of receiving funding independent of SGA was proposed. This change would “provide a clear message in support of diversity,” according to Trappey.

The Treasurer’s Report, another monetary topic, was presented by Billy Ferguson ’05. Sufficient funds remain for expenses this semester. Ferguson hopes that the new administration “won’t have to worry about funds,” due to the cushion.

Plans for April at the Lake have begun. The program is supported by SGA, PCC, and the Union Board. It began as a way to utilize an “underused portion of campus,” providing day and evening programs, according to Wilson McCrory ’07. “The emphasis is in trying to get student participation,” said McCrory. The program is tentatively planned to begin on April 8 and culminate on April 28 with a bonfire.

As a final piece of business, the Category II elections are drawing near and plans began for the February 17 SGA meeting, when the new president and vice-president will be sworn into office.