2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Board, continued from page 1

rejected that proposal. This time, the Board’s talk of the Christian requirement grew out of discussions at last year’s Trustee
retreat that focused on “What it means to be a Church-related college in the Reformed Tradition.” After examining what the
Reformed Tradition means and looking at what steps Davidson could take to make the College more in line with the
teachings of the Reformed Tradition, the Trustees decided that allowing non-Christians to serve on the Board would bring Davidson more
in line with its Reformed heritage.

Vagt stressed that this decision grew out of the Trustees’ understanding of Davidson’s religious heritage. “Last time the focus was
on a sense of equity for alumni,” said Vagt. “This time the issue grew out of the Board’s study and
reflection of what is the Reformed Tradition. This is consistent with who we are.”

College Chaplain Rob Spach also believes that the decision is in line with the Reformed Tradition. “The Reformed Tradition claims
that it finds in Jesus Christ the Revelation of God, but God is not bound by any Church or creed,”
Spach said. “Christians are called by Jesus to love their neighbors, and as Jesus tells it, that includes not just
the person like you who lives next door, but also the person very different from yourself, including those of other
religions.”

Despite the fact that the Trustees did not make this decision in order to increase equity or please students or
alumni, an overwhelming majority of students expressed support for the decision. In a survey conducted last fall in Dr. Pat
Sellers’ Public Opinion class, 78 percent of students said they did not think members of the Board should have to
be “active members of a Christian church,” 13 percent expressed support for the requirement, and nine percent said they did
not know. Of those students who identified themselves as atheists, agnostic, or belonging to a religion other than Christianity, 96
percent said they do not approve of the requirement.

“I think this shows that the school can maintain whatever identity it chooses while still allowing anyone to serve on
the Board,” said Mike Kaufman ’06, the Vice President of the Jewish Student Union (JSU). “This shows that there is
more to a school’s identity than the members of its board.”

“I love Davidson and when I leave I want to give back, and the fact that there is an option
for someone like me to be on the Board makes a big difference,” said Alaa’ Odeh ’05, a member of
the Muslim Student Association (MSA).

Students also felt the decision would have a positive impact on prospective students. “Prospective students may see this decision and
be encouraged by it,” said Kaufman.

The alumni reaction to the decision has been more mixed. The college sent letters to over 17,000 alumni explaining the
decision and received 120 written responses as well as numerous phone calls. According to Vagt, many of the letters expressed
support for the decision, while many others expressed disappointment. Despite the mixed reactions from alumni, Vagt is still hopeful that
this decision will not significantly affect alumni relations. “Given there is a decision my hope and expectation is that [the
alumni’s] affection for Davidson [will be] undiminished,” Vagt said.

Douglas Glover Presentation

Novelist Douglas Glover, Davidson’s 2004-05 McGee Professor of Writing, will present his works on February 10 at 7:30 p.m. in
the 900 Room of the Union. Call (704) 894-2441 for information.

Dean Rusk Lecture

Dr. Zachary Abuza, Associate Professor of Political Science at Simmons College and a Fellow at the US Institute of Peace,
will be speaking on “Post-Tsunami: Impact on Insurgencies.”in Sri Lanka/Thailand/Aceh” on Feb. 10 at 7 p.m. in Tyler-Tallman Hall. Knit-A-Thon
on Feb. 2. Political Science Lecture: Assistant Professor of Political Science and Director for the Western Hemisphere Russell Crandall will
give a lecture about foreign policy-making in the White House on February 8 in the Segal Building.

In the column "Creationism: mistaking opinion for fact?" by Joe Taylor '06 from the February 2 issue, due to an
editing error a sentence read: "Religion is an interpretation, not a choice or provable fact." It should have read: "Religion
is an interpretation; religion is a choice and not a provable fact." The Davidsonian regrets the error.

Campus Police Blotter

1/31 College Campus Stolen Tag
A car chase occurred on campus when two men were found driving a car with stolen tags. They drove through
campus in an attempt to escape officers. The two men were charged with displaying a stolen tag and having a
concealed weapon on school grounds.

2/1 Vail Commons Stolen Property
A student reported that his backpack was stolen from Vail Commons while he was eating. The bag had $50 worth
of textbooks, a calculator worth $50, and $80 in cash.

2/3 Patterson Court Policy Violation
While patrolling Patterson Court, an officer noticed music coming from the KA house. The officer entered the house and discovered
people inside and music coming from the rear patio. As it was 30 minutes past quiet hours, KA was written
up for a quiet hours violation.

2/4 Tomlinson Dormitory Open Alcohol
An officer saw a beer can propping open a door in Tomlinson and noticed the room was set up for
a drinking game. The officer was concerned about the amount of alcohol that had been set out, but students reassured
him that much of it was leftover mess that had not been cleaned up. An of-age student claimed the alcohol
as his, and the officer asked that the alcohol be removed from the common area and locked in his room.

2/5 Belk Dormitory Alcohol Poisoning
Police responded to a call from Belk about a possible alcohol poisoning. Upon arrival, officers learned that an ambulance was
on the way. The student admitted having consumed a large amount of alcohol in a short period of time but
did not want an ambulance. Medic determined that the student needed to go to the hospital and transported the student
by ambulance.

2/5 Irwin Dormitory Alcohol Violation
An officer observed three students speaking quite loudly. The students smelled of alcohol and admitted to the officer that they
were underage. The officer asked them to pour out the rest of their beer and wrote them up for underage
drinking.

2/6 Alvarez Student Union Disturbance
Workers at the Union Café contacted police when two students began throwing food from the tops of tables. Employees of
the café said that they had asked the two to leave but the students had refused, saying since they were
paying thousands of dollars to go to school here, no one had the right to make them leave. Because it
was after closing, the officers forced the students to leave, although they were upset about having to do so.

2/6 Tomlinson Dormitory Alcohol Violation
Two students entering Tomlinson Dormitory made a poor attempt to conceal open beer cans from an officer. Both students admitted
to being underage. The officer noticed that they seemed to be concealing more beer cans, and asked them to remove
all other cans. The total number of concealed cans was 23. Both students received alcohol violations, and the beer was
destroyed by means of plumbing.

2/7 Little Dormitory Larceny of Artwork
Four black and white ink wash paintings were stolen from a lounge in Little. The paintings were worth about $200.
