8 THE DAVIDSONIAN | Barbaqueer success inspires pre-game Tallgayt SEE PAGE 6

Juggling no longer classified as ‘lifetime sport,’ changed to ‘pointless trick’ See Page 7

Waterskiing club needs a new powerboat See Page 11

Blocking junk email less effective if an email is sent about it See Page 12

Campus safety to use squash courts as drunk containment centers See Page 13

THE YOWL
Your Davidsonian Humor Section
Editors: Bobby Kenner and Jeff Yeakel
Sleeping with Yeakel: Nathan Bradshaw

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editors at bokenner@davidson.edu or jeyeakel@davidson.edu.

Note: The Yowl! is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

UBI ORTA HUMOR UBERTAS
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2005
DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

Ad space available here

November 2, 2005
The Davidsonian

Halloween is a fun night to dress up, party, and impress other people with clever costume ideas. It is one
of the best nights of the year for most college students, but not for sophomore Ben Watkins. He says that
a terrible experience this past Saturday night may have soured his outlook on the holiday forever.

Watkins has always enjoyed dressing up for Halloween and was highly anticipating last weekend’s costume party at Warner House. “I
was all set to go as Ali G from ‘Da Ali G Show’ this year,” said Watkins. “But once I
showed up to the party, I saw some other kid already dressed up like Ali G. Everybody was standing around
him and he was doing the accent perfectly; I felt like a complete idiot.”

Watkins said that some last-minute shopping kept him from coming up with as good of a costume as he would
have liked and that fellow Ali G costume wearer Jim Hannigan ’07 overshadowed him all night. One of the girls
enjoying Hannigan’s routine, Betsy Calloway ’09, said that the whole party would have been better off if Watkins had decided
on another costume. “It was like Jim was Ali G; he was so funny,” said Calloway. “When that other kid
showed up, it was kind of a buzz kill. His accent and mannerisms were all wrong, and his costume didn’t
even make sense. He tried to just draw in a goatee, but he used green ink. Weird.”

Friends tried to help Watkins overcome the difficult situation. “It was pretty embarrassing,” said Watkins’s roommate, Dale Anderson ’08. “Honestly,
I didn’t even know what Ben was at first. Once we got to the party, I told him just to
pretend he was something else.”

Watkins tried to make the Ali G costume work for a little while, but then took his friend Anderson’s advice
and started telling people that he was actually dressed up as “The King” from the new Burger King commercials. “In
retrospect, that was a bad idea,” said Watkins. “Because as little as I looked like Ali G, I looked even
less like ‘The King.’”

Unfortunately for the sophomore, his strategy backfired. Less than ten minutes after declaring himself the Burger King, senior Mark Trammell
walked in with that costume. Again, Watkins was outdone by someone else’s costume.

“After the Burger King thing didn’t work, I just hung out on the porch, talking to some other people with
bad costumes,” said Watkins. “There was a whole group of us out there who had costumes that other people were
doing a better job wearing. It was kind of like a stupid costume support group.”

The batch of Halloween misfits included a pale and skinny Hulk Hogan, a police officer wearing only a homemade badge,
and a junior whose costume consisted of just an undershirt with “Mr. Belding” written on it in sharpie. The group
planned on heading to the Black Students Coalition, where another Halloween party was taking place, in anEffort to find a
location where their costumes would be unique. This plan was foiled, however, when Warner was shut down early after a
student pulled out a knife. “It was kind of like a stupid costume support group.” When Warner was shut down,
Watkins thought there was no way to escape having a disastrous night. “After the knife came out, everybody headed to
the BSC and my problems began all over again,” said Watkins. “But then, when somebody asked me what I was
supposed to be, I told them that I dressed up as the kid who pulled out the knife, and that
got a couple of laughs. So, I guess the night wasn’t a total loss.”

CoHo eating house fined for falsely claiming to throw party

Last Friday night, the CoHo eating house was fined $250 by Campus Safety for dishonestly registering a “party” with the
department. The new alcohol policy defines a party as a gathering of 30 or more people with the presence of
alcohol. According to chief of police Ryan Dresser, the eating house should have filed their get-together as an impromptu since
there were less than 30 people in attendance. “I don’t get what’s confusing about the new policy,” said Dresser. “Less
than 30 people and it’s an impromptu, more than 30 people and it’s a party.”

The misrepresentation, however, is more than just a technical issue of improper terms. When someone hosts a party that has
more than 80 people in attendance, a police officer is required to be present to enforce rules and ensure the
safety of the participants. Since CoHo filed the paperwork claiming to have over 80 people on Friday, Officer Terry Clark
was dispatched to the location. When Officer Clark arrived at the reported start time, he observed only half a dozen
people were present.

“I didn’t really think anything was unusual at that point,” said Clark, “because oftentimes those court parties take a while
before they start to fill up. It got to be around midnight, though, and there had only been like three
or four other people all night. I couldn’t imagine why people weren't attending this party because they had a ton
of beer. I realized then that we had been tricked.”

Chief Dresser speculated that the reporting of the fictitious party was probably a Halloween prank since the holiday was the
following Monday. “We get these kinds of pranks often around Halloween,” said Dresser. “In fact, the next night we got
a call about a student pulling out a knife at one of the parties. I mean, come on, someone pulling
a weapon at a Davidson party? How dumb do they take our force to be?”

These pranks, though perhaps light-hearted in nature, often cost the Campus Safety department valuable resources. “Every time we have to
send an officer to a fake party, that takes one of our staff away from where he might be needed
at a real party,” said Dresser. “That night there was a party at F which drew well over 30 people,
but we were unable to properly monitor it because Officer Clark was dispatched to the fake party at CoHo.”

Not only does the dishonest reporting of parties hurt the department as a whole, but according to Officer Clark, it
is rather unexciting for the officer assigned to that duty. “I stood around all night watching the same six people
dance aimlessly and eat pastries,” said Clark. “That’s rather boring, at least compared to the other much more exciting things
that happen at the other Davidson court parties.”

There has been no report yet as to whether or not CoHo is planning on appealing the fine. According to
social chair Roger Kingsley ’06, the eating house will make a decision at its members' next knitting club meeting on
Wednesday afternoon.
