14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2005

Carter throws complete game, ’Cats lose series

By STEVE HALLIDAY
Senior Staff Writer

Despite another gem from staff ace Andy Carter ’05 to open the weekend series against Western Carolina this past week, Davidson was unable to claim the series victory against the Catamounts after losing the Saturday and Sunday games in demoralizing fashion. Davidson also claimed a victory over Radford to split the four games on the week.

The first game of the week was March 30 against Radford, and the ’Cats mustered just enough offense and late-game pitching to seal the win. Davidson fell behind early, but a six-run rally in the third gave the ’Cats a comfortable margin. The rally began with a Mike Muniz ’05 double, and following a groundout and a walk, Jay Heafner ’06 singled to right to score Muniz. Greg Zage’s ’07 two-run triple and solo home runs by Eli Benefield ’05 and Alex Entrekin ’06 capped the scoring in the inning. Davidson furthered the lead to 10-6 after six innings, and the Wildcats then held on down the stretch to claim the 10-8 victory. Muniz, Heafner, Zage, and Benefield all finished with at least two hits and two RBI, and Bobby DeMuro ’08 got the first win of his career after allowing just one earned run in two and two-thirds innings. Rob Wilson ’07 also picked up his first save of the season, facing five batters without allowing a man on base.

Following the win at Radford, the ’Cats dug in for a three-game series against SoCon foe Western Carolina over the weekend. Davidson started off with a bang, as Carter allowed just two runs and struck out a career-high 12 in the Wildcats’ first complete-game performance of the year. Carter established himself early in the game, striking out the first three batters he faced in the top of the first, and the Davidson offense did enough to provide him with a working margin after Zage and Muniz hit two-run homers later in the game.

With high winds blowing out to right field, the Saturday game looked to be a high-scoring affair before the first pitch was even thrown, and it certainly lived up to the billing. Davidson was first on the board, putting up two runs in the bottom of the first, but the lead would not last long, as a Western two-run shot in the top of the third evened the score. Davidson jumped ahead 7-2 in the third inning and added three runs in the bottom of the eighth to take a commanding 11-7 lead heading into the ninth. Unfortunately, the ’Cats’ bullpen was unable to hold the lead, as Western rallied for six runs in the top of the ninth against relievers Matt Hanson ’05 and Bill Riggs ’05. Davidson was unable to muster a comeback in the bottom half of the frame, and the Wildcats fell after leaving 11 runners on base.

On Sunday, the ’Cats faced Western for the third and final game of the series. The Catamounts jumped out to an early lead, tallying a quick three runs in the top of the first to put Davidson in an early hole for the first time all weekend. A Heafner lead-off homer in the bottom of the sixth got the ’Cats on the board, and they added another run when Benefield scored on a groundout, but the offense was unable to plate much more as Davidson fell 7-4. The team had its chances, though, as the ’Cats left 13 of the 17 base runners stranded on the afternoon.

Baseball can’t close the deal on the series vs. Western after an opening win. Despite the tough week, a bright spot for the ’Cats throughout the season has been the offensive play of Heafner. His efforts were recognized this week by the Southern Conference, as he was named the SoCon player of the week for his play during the four-game stretch in which he went 10-14 with a homer, four doubles, five runs, five RBI, and five walks. Heafner is currently hitting .458 on the year.and he has a seven-game hitting streak. The ’Cats will next face Wake Forest at home on April 6 before a three-game series at Wofford over the weekend.

Lacrosse comes up short against Oregon, OSU
By KATHERINE SWAIN
Staff Writer

Davidson defeated Canisius College on Belk Turf Field 20-10 last Thursday to move to 4-5, the ’Cats’ best start since 2002, before falling to Oregon and Ohio State over the weekend in the team’s last home games of the season.

Davidson did not leave Canisius much hope from the outset, scoring the first nine goals of the game. Canisius finally found the net with 10:29 left to play in the first half, but Davidson reasserted its offensive dominance by outscoring Canisius 5-3 over the remainder of the half to take a 14-5 lead at the break. Canisius came out revived in the second half, and the Golden Griffins scored four consecutive goals to close to within 14-9. Brandon Jacob ’05 finally broke the Wildcats’ dry spell at the 10:26 mark, sparking another scoring rally for the ’Cats. Davidson scored three goals in the ensuing three minutes, and Emily Palmer ’08 netted the last Wildcat goal with just over a minute to play. Ten different ’Cats scored on the Golden Griffins, and Davidson out-hustled Canisius, dominating ground balls, 30-20, and draw controls, 22-10. Lindsay Frank ’05 scored a career-high six goals, while Millie McKeachie ’05 recorded five points on three goals and two assists. Goaltender Laura Johnson ’08 also earned her second career win, recording six saves and two ground balls, as Davidson ended Canisius’ four-game winning streak.

Davidson could not maintain the momentum of the victory against Oregon on Saturday, though, as the Wildcats fell 16-6. A tremendous second-half effort by Davidson could not offset the dominant first half by Oregon, as the Ducks scored six goals in the first six minutes of play. Oregon found the back of the net 12 straight times in the first half, extending its lead to 12-0 with 6:29 left in the first period. Frank broke the Ducks’ streak, scoring two consecutive goals, but the ’Cats entered the half with a daunting 13-2 deficit. The ’Cats’ defense stepped up its efforts in the second half, limiting the Ducks to three goals. Davidson actually outscored Oregon in the second frame, with Frank scoring three and Jacob recording one goal, but the Wildcats could not climb back within striking distance. Johnson recorded six saves in the second half alone for a total of seven on the afternoon.

The following day Davidson played No. 16 Ohio State, and the ’Cats fell to the Buckeyes 15-4. Davidson’s defensive effort was superb, playing aggressively throughout the midfield and cohesively around the eight-meter area. The game was tied 2-2 after the first ten minutes of play, but OSU then asserted itself to outscore Davidson 7-1 over the rest of the period to take a 9-3 halftime lead. Frank scored on a run-and-gun to open the final period, scoring less than a minute into the second half, but her goal was the only Davidson score after intermission. OSU tallied six straight goals to end the game and drop Davidson to 0-4 in conference play. Davidson next plays at Virginia Tech tonight in Blacksburg, Va. at 7 p.m.

from Connolly, page 12
return to national television, and The Masters begins. If you’re like me, that spells holiday, and my sofa and I will ultimately fuse into one. The excitement starts at 2 p.m. on ESPN2 when Colorado College faces off with Denver and continues at 7 p.m. as Minnesota challenges North Dakota, the school with probably the most politically correct mascot on the continent: the Fighting Sioux. Fortunately, the political incorrectness doesn’t end there, as at 11:35 p.m., CBS will broadcast highlights from Augusta National, which still refuses to admit women as members. (Anything I write here would sear my mother, so I will stop.) But while Augusta may be years—OK, decades—behind in gender equality, the golf club has also been sheltered from other out-