THE DAVIDSONIAN

JAMIE WILL
Staff Writer

Volleyball went into Oct. 5 on a tear and continued it against High Point. The team, which started out very slowly at 1-7, swept High Point out of Belk Arena 3-0. After easily winning games one and two of the match, High Point came back in game three to tie it at 25, but a previously quiet match by Liz Williamson ’07 ended strongly with two kills to tie and then an ace to seal the match. Other strong contributors for Davidson were Jenna Dykstra ’07 and Kittery Neale '09, who added 12 kills in the match. The win marked the third in a row for Davidson, as well as their sixth in eight games.

Next on the schedule for Davidson was the SoCon leader, the College of Charleston. Coming into the match at 15-1, and an undefeated 7-0 in conference, Charleston was a favorite in the match, and Davidson lost 3-0. The ’Cats made a few comebacks throughout the three games and stayed within respectable distance of Charleston. The loss ended the Wildcats’ three-game winning streak and dropped their record to 7-12, 3-2 in the SoCon.

Heading into the last match of a five-match home-stand for Davidson, the Wildcats looked to improve their in-conference record against The Citadel. The Citadel came into the match struggling both in and out of conference, posting a 2-17 overall record with no wins in conference. Davidson swept the match 3-0, but two of the three games went down to the wire with Davidson only winning by three or less. In a match where runs and momentum swings occurred constantly, the Wildcats were able to put together runs of 11-3 in the second game to take control and a late 5-1 run in game three to seal the match. There were key contributions from several Wildcats against The Citadel, notably Williamson, Tierney Hodge ’09, with 11 kills, and Alison Dwyer ’09, who had important, late blocks in game three to help seal the win, along with Katie Pierucci '08, with a season-high 25 assists, helped spark the team effort to win the SoCon match. Volleyball is now 5-4 in SoCon play.

Davidson then traveled to Georgia Southern for another in-conference match. Looking ahead to SoCon rival Georgia Southern, a strong team that entered the match with Davidson at 6-1 in the conference and 12-5 overall, the Wildcats knew they would have to put together a strong team effort to win the match. Unfortunately, despite a fast start in taking the first game of the match 30-26 and an early lead in the second game, Davidson was out-hit overall and fell 3-1. Several Wildcats had strong matches, including Williamson, who had over 20 kills for the fourth time this season with 26 in the match, Dykstra, who had over 50 assists for the third time this season, and Pierucci, who ended up with her seventh career double-double with 14 kills and 20 digs.

Davidson got back on track versus yet another SoCon rival, Wofford, taking the match 3-1. Dykstra had an outstanding match, posting her first triple-double of the season with 10 kills, 44 assists, and 11 digs. Dykstra’s impressive showing was aided by strong matches and double-digit kills from three fellow Wildcats, Williamson, Pierucci, and Hodge. Davidson cruised in game one and made a comeback from a 16-8 deficit in game two to win before falling after the 10-minute break in game three, only to blow Wofford away in the fourth game.

The back and forth trend would continue for Davidson against Furman, as the Wildcats fell to the Lady Paladins 3-1 this past Sunday to round out the road trip. After pounding their way to a decisive game one victory, Davidson proceeded to lose the next three games.Next three games due to the solid, virtually mistake-free play of Furman. Pierucci and Neale led the way for Davidson, with the team as a whole recording a season high in blocks with 15, not to mention the third match in a row with 10-plus blocks for the Wildcats as well. Davidson will return to the court against Western Carolina on Saturday.

Both wide receiver Ryan Hubbard '08 and quarterback Ryan Alexander '08 had standout performances this past weekend, as Hubbard had catches of 55, 79, and 27 yards for 172 yards, tying a Davidson record. Smith was recognized as the special teams player of the week for nailing two field goals (32, 43) and converting all three PAT attempts. The defense also had big plays, with Alexander completing 13 of his passes. The defense recorded two interceptions, one each by Childers and safety Zach Long '08. The 'Cats got pressure on the quarterback all day, resulting in four total sacks, two by Kyle Kinsell '07. It is possible that Davidson can earn a share of the PFL South title with a win on Saturday. If both Davidson and Jacksonville win next weekend, three teams will sit at 2-1. The tiebreaker is points allowed, but that isn’t on the 'Cats' minds. “We can’t worry about the things we can’t control, we’re just gonna go out and play our game and things will take care of themselves.”

Two NorPac losses leave 'Cats 0-4 in Conference
By MEGHAN CURTIS
Staff Writer

The field hockey team started off their busy schedule this past week with a home-field loss against Stanford, a Northern Pacific rival, on Oct. 7. Davidson lost 5-1 against the Cardinals. The game had a fast pace, as Stanford scored about a minute into the game. Despite three quick goals by Stanford in the first nine minutes of play, the Wildcat defense was able to hold the Cardinals scoreless for the rest of the first half. The 'Cats scored first in the second half, getting their only goal of the game at 48:08. Catherine Ransone '08 put in the unassisted point for Davidson. Stanford scored once in the second half to finish the game with five goals. Davidson goalkeeper Rachel Kiselewich '07 made six saves during the game.

The 'Cats turned things around the next day, Oct. 8, when they played conference challenger Georgetown at home. The winning goal, scored in overtime, was made by Britti Himelfarb '09 after taking on a Hoya player in a one-on-one match-up during the fourth minute of overtime, giving Davidson the 3-2 win. The victory puts Davidson ahead 5-4 in the all-time record between the two teams. Davidson started off strong when Misty Stallings '08 scored the first goal after about 15 minutes of play. The Hoyas responded three minutes later with a goal of their own. Himelfarb then scored her first goal of the game off an assist by Ginnie Friddell '08. Georgetown scored once more in the second half to tie the game, but Davidson’s final effort in the overtime play put them ahead. Kiselewich contributed three saves. “It was a great win, and I was excited to see so much hustle and second effort and desire to win from our girls. I’m very proud of our team,” said coach Lisa Thompson.

On Oct. 11, Davidson fell 7-0 to No. 4 North Carolina. The Wildcats struggled, trailing in the shot count throughout the game. During the first period, Davidson was outshot 2-8. After the break, North Carolina came back to score six goals on 15 shots. On a personal note, Kiselewich tallied 11 saves on the afternoon, equaling her career best. The 'Cats then challenged the 2004 NorPac champion Pacific on Sunday in Williamsburg, Va., a neutral site. Pacific outscored Davidson 3-1 in the match. The 'Cats had the first goal of the night off of a Kayli Maxwell '08 shot just 10 minutes into play. Pacific responded just five minutes later with a goal from a penalty corner play. The Tigers scored two more goals in the first half to bring them their win. Pacific dominated in the shot count 15-7. The Wildcat goalkeeper, Brittany Rollek '09, made eight saves for the day. Davidson (3-9, 0-4 NorPac) will continue their play when they host Appalachian State on Oct. 23.