8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By WILL BYRAN
Staff Writer

Routine is a major part of life at Davidson College. We wake up at the same time, go to the same classes and eat the same food day after day. So, upon leaving Chambers after a morning class, the prospect of mixing up my dining routine for a day seemed to be an adventure: I decided to stop and buy an apple from that girl who is always whistling by the flagpole.

Her name is Liz Dover, and she is actually trying to raise money for a semester in French cooking schools. After being turned down by various sources of funding on campus, Dover decided to try different approaches to raising money. “I have taken jobs at a church as pianist/choir director, in tech services, as a tutor, and selling apples/bananas,” she said.

In all, Dover has raised $2,500 with a goal of $4,000. Her fruit business has contributed $300 in the last two weeks as she has now decided to sell bananas as well as apples. She hopes to be able to raise enough money to be able to attend the Cordon Bleu and study pastry making in Paris.

Contrary to a bewildering myth, however, Dover does not actually steal apples from Commons, but rather buys them from the Home Economist. “They are organic and frankly,” she said, “I think they are much more flavorful than the apples on campus.”

Not only does Dover sell fruit in front of Chambers, but one can also stop by her dorm room at Belk 401 for a tasty snack or to make a donation. Like everything else on campus, the fruit is under the protection of the honor code.

Apart from her fresh fruit and cheerful smile, Dover can also be recognized by her distinctive whistle. “Whistling makes me happy,” she says, “it’s kind of like singing in the shower.” So if you haven’t been moved by the dedication or the ingenuity of this fellow Davidsonian, perhaps you could just ask her to whistle some Gershwin for you and the memory of that impossible review will temporarily slip your mind. But, even then, “there is one guy on campus who says that my whistling makes him want to kill furry puppies. I stop when I see him. I like animals too much.”

ARTS & LIVING

By ARIEL BUGOSH
Staff Writer

“Davidson, a highly selective independent liberal arts college ...” “Davidson, a former Presbyterian seminary. ...” The ongoing trustee debate shows the conflict between the “new” secular Davidson and the older, more traditional Davidson. However, what does religious life at Davidson really look like? Outside of the politics, what are students’ experiences?

The center of Davidson religious life is the Chaplain’s Office, which provides funding for many different religious groups. In addition to several Christian groups, there are Muslim, Jewish, and Interfaith opportunities. Representatives from all organizations meet bimonthly to discuss issues and events.

Within groups, participants attend Bible Studies or prayer meetings each week. Many students also attend either the Weekly College Worship, on Wednesday afternoons, or the Thursday Night Worship at DCPC. Nor are events always “spiritual” in nature; next year, groups are planning a Kickball Tournament between all the groups on campus.

Groups also sponsor speakers, such as writer Don Miller back in March. On Monday, the 25th, at 7:30 pm, several groups are cosponsoring a discussion called “Race and the Church: Divided or United by Faith?” The influential pastors from the racially diverse Christ Central Church in Charlotte, as well as sociology professor Dr. Marti, will talk about issues facing the church today.

Religious groups at Davidson try to integrate spiritual growth and service, showing that religion is not just one part of a person’s life.

But policies and publicity only go so far. Ultimately it comes down to the student to consider, choose and plug into the spiritual opportunities.