THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2005

ARTS & LIVING

Listening closely to voices from Juarez
Student-organized exhibit to raise awareness of the deaths across the El Paso border

By SARA SAMS
Arts & Living Editor

Femicide seems a distant inhumanity—the extreme end of anti-female terror far too inconceivable for the proximity of our country’s door-holding south. But right across the border that many Davidson students venture far past for spring break, women of Ciudad Juarez have been brutally raped, kidnapped, and murdered in barbaric numbers. As recently touched on in Eve Ensler’s “Vagina Monologues,” the struggle in Juarez reflects not only repulsive cruelty but also the apathy of the area’s local government. To date, more than 300 women have been murdered, more than 600 have disappeared, and (after more than 10 years) bodies are still being found with no end in sight.

The lack of response to these killings from the police and government and the resulting injustice has led the families of victims to join together to fight for their daughters, sisters, and loved ones who were victims of this inhumanity. Rape is often a silent struggle; Kelly Sindler '05 and Larkspur Van Stone '05 realize that in order for students to find an understanding of the brutality that the Juarez women are exposed to, they must hear their voices. Hoping to bring this understanding to campus, Sindler, Van Stone, and Professor Magdalena Maiz-Peña have organized an awareness campaign for the week of March 7 (March is, appropriately, Women’s Month). Their purpose explains that “the documentaries, photos, poetry, letters, writings, and the voices and protest of mothers, family members, and other women and activists, reclaim the brutally taken lives of so many women in Ciudad Juarez.”

A photo exhibition will be open from March 7 until March 13 in the 900 Room. While the images will be powerful, they will not stand alone. At 7 p.m. on Monday, March 7, a segment of the project powerfully titled “Body of Evidence” will feature a documentary by Lourdes Portillo, “Señorita Extraviada,” and the photos of Julian Cardona, “Border Lenses: Documenting Women’s Lives.” Portillo’s “Señorita Extraviada” (in English, “Missing Young Woman”) aired on PBS and is a striking investigation of the chaos that has overwhelmed Juarez. The documentary reflects not only repulsive cruelty but also the apathy of the area’s local government.

Julian Cardona picks up a testimony of an attack survivor that the police shockingly dropped. The film presents questions concerning the corruption and lawlessness as well as the degradation of life worsened by poverty and a globalizing economy.

“Voices From Juarez” on March 8 from 8-8:30 p.m. presents testimonials by Ramona Morales Huerta, the mother of victim Silvia Rivera, and Nakar Ortiz. The project’s organizers related that they “hope to not only gain awareness on campus but also illustrate how the empowerment of other women, family members, and mothers fights against further injustice.” This, they hope, will give a voice to the victims of Ciudad Juarez.

By TY WHITE
Staff Writer

North Carolina is rarely thought of as a hockey hotbed. Yet Charlotte is home to one of the best minor league teams in the country: the Charlotte Checkers. And with...the NHL out of commission this year, what better time to watch the minor leagues? The NHL lockout has pushed the young and upcoming players of the NHL to the American Hockey League, thus pushing better players to the East Coast Hockey League, where the Checkers play.

Okay, so you really don’t pay attention to hockey and wouldn’t know Gretzky from a Great Dane. The Checkers still have plenty of fun for you. The two most exciting things in hockey are fights and scoring. Even people who don’t know a thing about hockey can appreciate the beauty of a puck beating a goalie and the raw humanity of one man’s bare fist smashing another man’s face, over and over again until one of them is left writhing on the ice.

What most people don’t realize is that there is far more of both events in the minor leagues. The young players (often college-age or recent college graduates) are trying to strut their stuff to get into the NHL. The easy way for those without incredible scoring talent is to be a tough guy. This means getting in, and winning, as many fights as they can.

At the January 28 game against the Carolina Stingrays, in the first period alone, there were four goals scored and four fights. How can you beat that? On-ice action not enough for you? The three (yes, three) Checkers cheerleaders will gladly come give you a bear hug. There’s a “chuck-a-puck” contest between the second and third periods, where the puck (available for purchase for $1 upon entering the arena) that lands in the target at center-ice wins $600. Advice from a chuck-a-puck veteran: throw lightly—rubber + ice = lots of bouncing.

Perhaps the most entertaining off-ice attraction is a 30-something man who dances like a lunatic in the aisles whenever a song comes on the PA system. If you’re in his area and are dancing along with him, he’ll take off one of his many, layered Checkers t-shirts and give it to you. It might be the easiest dance contest you’ll ever win!

Despite all this fun, Cricket Arena rarely sells out, and there isn’t a bad seat in the house. Tickets range from $8 (way at the top) to $20 (within feet of the ice). Some of the better, lesser-known seats are the $12 ones behind the goals (don’t worry, hanging nets protect you from flying pucks). Most games are on Friday and Saturday nights, and you’ll be back in time to hit the court. If you’ve never been to a hockey game, or haven’t been since you came to college (you Northern folks), don’t drop the puck on your chance to see minor league hockey at its best.

The Charlotte Checkers:
Cricket Arena: 2700 E. Independence Boulevard
Tickets: $8-20
www.gocheckers.com