WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2005

Sidewalks iced

Senior still dresses up for fraternity theme parties

SEE PAGES

Student caught snorting detergent off Phi Delt floor at Blacklight Beach Party

Career Services has e-mail privileges suspended

to leave Pika House Friday after spilling beer all over his shirt, thus committing his fifth, and final, party-foul. The
inebriated Cooper, who party fouled out at approximately 11:30 p.m., hung his head in shame as he retired to his
dormitory. Cooper got into foul trouble early on when Risk Manager Gabriela Perez ’05 called his first party foul for
tripping on the stairs and knocking into the girls walking ahead of him while he was entering Pika. Then, five
minutes after coming in, he was called for a personal foul, again by Perez, after accidentally elbowing Sarah Schafer ’06
on the dance floor. Schafer was not satisfied with the foul call, as she believed that it deserved a harsher
penalty. “They should have T’d him up for that. He was dancing out of control. There I was, minding my
own business, when he swung around and a flailing elbow nailed the back of my head.” Added Schafer, “That really
hurt!” Perez stuck by her call, however, despite Schafer’s complaints. “It was by no means grounds for a technical party
foul. Cooper clearly threw the elbow accidentally.”

Juniors living with Seniors

Overcrowding forces students to live at The Pines

The large number of students who have returned from their semesters abroad have left the Davidson College Residential Life Organization
with the problem of deciding how to provide housing for too many students. With the dorm rooms full, hall lounges
occupied, and off-campus accommodations limited, Davidson College has been forced to think outside of the proverbial box. Their answer: buy
apartments at a nearby apartment complex. RLO has chosen to house students with no other living options in apartments at
The Pines at Davidson, a local retirement community for senior citizens. Associate Dean of Residential Life Cathy McGloin made the
acquisition official on Monday of last week: “Davidson College is pleased to announce the purchase of five apartments from The
Pines at Davidson and would like to thank those alumni who have donated to the Annual Fund who have made
this opportunity possible.”

According to the administration, everything has been running very well at The Pines thus far. Most of the elderly residents
of the community, although hesitant at first, have graciously accepted the students and have expressed thanks to the young men
for bringing a new energy to the community. Four of the boys, as part of their work-study, have been put
in charge of the events committee. “These gentlemen sure know how to throw a party,” said Wilson S. Washington ’48.
“I think that we might have to concede our status as the ‘greatest generation’ based on their ability to ‘get
down.’ I can tell you one thing, I’m just glad we have Davidson students rooming here, and not some dirty
hippies from Brown or something.”

Other seniors, though, have complained about the students’ actions. Dolores O'Connor, age remarked, “Last Friday night I wanted to get
to sleep early because I had an appointment to get my dentures fixed on Saturday morning, but I couldn’t get
to bed because of all the carrying on in the banquet hall. It’s almost as bad as when my children
started listening to that cretin, Elvis.”

Those not involved in organizing activities have found other ways to keep themselves busy. Some students have been teaching the
senior citizens their favorite parlor games, such as “Beirut,” played with whiskey and scotch at the request of the seniors.
Also popular are video games, especially Halo. According to students, many of the seniors are surprisingly good at Halo, due
to their prior experience of fighting in World War II and the Korean War. Poker games have also been one
way that students have bonded with the older residents of The Pines. “We thought that gambling with the old folks
on Beirut would be a sure way to make some cash on the side,” said Terry Crantz ’06. “Little did
we know that Stuart ‘Quick Fingers’ Morgan was a former pitcher for the 1942 Braves and is a menace on
the table. Heck, he told us about the time when he played a game with Joe Kennedy.”

Many of the seniors are surprisingly good at Halo, due to their prior experience of fighting in World War II.
Other students have used the residents’ historical knowledge to their advantage. Said Nick Dolindo ’07, “I have so many great
sources for my History class on the Great Depression. This one guy, you get him to start talking, and he
just doesn’t stop. He practically wrote my paper for me.”

Luckily for RLO, a potential disaster has turned into a significant victory. With the enrollment climbing higher and higher above
the 1600 mark, the possibility exists that Davidson will need to purchase more apartments from The Pines in years to
come. Residents of the community look forward to dealing more closely with the college and hope that the 64 college-owned
houses used to hold visiting professors will remain full to ensure Davidson College students being housed at the Pines for
the foreseeable future.

Things went from bad to worse for Cooper.When he asked Jenny Dorsey '07, “Hey, you’re in my psych class, right?”
thus drawing his third foul of the night. Explained Dorsey, “That line is terrible. What a freshman move. I conceded
that I did, in fact, have class with him, and then told him I had to go to the bathroom.
I didn’t really go to the bathroom, I just found my friends and avoided him for the rest of the
night.”

“I’m going to call those every time, especially now — with PCC breathing down our necks for more consistent refereeing.”

“He should know that we're calling that one this year. PCC really wants us to crack down on those,” commented
Perez. “After he tried talking to that girl, I could tell that this just was going to be a long
night for him. I was surprised that he didn’t sit on the side for a little bit, because he was
getting into some serious foul trouble.”

She wasn’t prepared, however, for the severity of Cooper’s fourth, and perhaps most flagrant, party foul. At approximately 11:04 p.m.
Cooper hit the dance floor and began dancing with acquaintance Ellen Forte '08. After grinding for 45 seconds, Cooper became
sexually aroused and was immediately called by Perez for this indecent maneuver.

“That was so gross!” exclaimed Forte. “We weren't even dancing for one minute before he got excited. I mean, I
understand that sometimes this happens, but it should not be so premature. He’s not even cute.”

“He really crossed the line with that one,” said Perez. “I had to advise him to sit on the bench
for a little while and cool down, because I'm not afraid of throwing anyone out. If I see you foul,
I’m going to call it every time, especially now with PCC breathing down our necks for more consistent refereeing.”

Cooper decided to take Perez’s advice to prevent himself from fouling out so early in the night. He explained, “I
realized that Gabriela was probably right and I should sit out for a few minutes, because it was only 12
and I already had four fouls. I was doing just fine for a while, but then I spilled a little
beer on my shirt. I can’t believe she called me on a ticky-tack BS foul like that. That can happen
to anyone.”

Responded Perez, “There is no doubt in my mind that I made the right call there. It was definitely a
foul. I would have called that same foul on anyone, even on Rodney Cravsell ('06). Ask around, I’m a fair
ref, and you won't find me giving anyone star treatment. Heck, I threw Peter Sax ('04) out of his last
KA party at Davidson on a pair of flagrants. So, I don’t want to hear any of this favoritism garbage.”
She continued, “It was just time for Cooper to call it a night. I commend him for a strong effort
and persistence, but he was just out of his element.”

Devolves into bragging about workload

For juniors Jessica Mims and Holly Sittan, Thursday started out just like any other day. The two friends were walking
to class together, as was their habit every Tuesday and Thursday at 11:20 a.m., having a friendly conversation along the
way. But their conversation quickly took a turn for the worst, turning into a heated discussion. According to sources, both
Mims and Sittan became visibly agitated due to the respective claims that one had more work than the other.

“I saw Jess and Holly out by the flagpole in front of Chambers when I was on my way to
my 11:30. I said ‘hi,’ but they just ignored me. It sounded like they were talking about their classes, but
I couldn’t tell what was so important that they were about to miss class for,” recalled Mary Hynes '06. “I
went ahead to class, and when I walked out of Chambers at 12:45 p.m., they were still out there by
the flagpole! And whatever they were talking about must have been pretty intense, because they were yelling back and forth
at each other.”

Sittan explained her side of the story. “Well, we were walking to class, like we always do, and I said
something about how much work I had to do. She butted in and was like ‘there is no way you
could have more work than I have right now,’ and so I asked her what exactly she had to do,
and she started going off about how she had three lab reports and a 15-page paper to write by Monday.
So I told her that I had two 10-page papers due on Monday on top of a 500-page book to
read. So then we started arguing about who had the harder workload and who had the tougher schedule, and before
we even knew it, it was an hour and a half later and we had missed class.”

Said Mims, “I clearly have more work than Holly. I mean, I’m pre-med, so I actually have to take real
classes, as opposed to Holly, who's a Sociology major. Everyone knows that Sociology is by far the easiest major and
that Chem is really hard. Plus, Holly doesn’t even do any extracurricular activities, while I am not only on the
lacrosse team, but I'm also the social chair for Connor. She really pisses me off. Can she actually think that
she really has more work than me?”

Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Some of these people submitted articles:
Nathan Bradshaw
Alana Vaughn
Bron Tennis
Christian Davis
Jeremy Bloxson

Editor: Brendan Parets

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editor at brparets@davidson.edu

Note: If you haven’t been living in a cave for the past year, then you should know that the Yow!
is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.
