The Davidsonian
ARTS & LIVING
Wednesday, March 16, 2005

Neigh-sayers: Equestrian enthusiasts on campus
By KATIE HUNTER
Staff Writer

Between their studies and numerous extracurricular activities, most Davidson students find limited opportunities to “horse around” during the school week.
There are a few, however, who always manage to have the time. To these students, horseback riding is a natural
part of life. Most have been riding since a very young age, including Valerie Mason ’07. “As soon as I
was old enough to sit up, my mom put me on a horse,” she says. “I started riding regularly on
an ancient pony when I was five years old and joined Pony Club, a national youth organization for riding, when
I was eight.”

Mason hasn’t stopped riding since, though she no longer owns a horse. She volunteers regularly at nearby Hinds’ Feet Farm,
a local establishment with plans to start a therapeutic riding program for handicapped individuals. “With the help of other Davidson
volunteers, I have been working to train the farm’s two horses and get them ready to do therapy,” said Mason.
She exercises them three or four times per week and also provides Marty Foil, the director of the program, with
valuable horse advice. “Volunteering at Hinds’ Feet Farm has been wonderful so far because I get to do what I
love and help a good cause at the same time,” she said. “I have also been glad to introduce other
students who have little or no experience with horses to the farm, and I greatly appreciate all their help.”

Though helping out with the horses at Hinds’ Feet Farm necessitates a time commitment, it is much less than that
required of the Davidson horse owner, as evidenced by freshman Lauren Woodall’s tight schedule. “Every weekday begins at 6 a.m.,”
she said, “which is necessary if I’m going to get everything done.” To Woodall, “everything” entails not only academic work
and Davidson-related activities, but also daily trips to the barn. “I ride and train at least six days a week,”
she said, “and generally spend around 24 hours a week at the barn.”

Woodall’s dedication is necessary to succeed, as she hones her skills by taking rigorous lessons once a week in Southern
Pines, North Carolina. “I have to drive nearly three hours each way,” she said, “because the coaching in this area
isn’t sufficient for the level I compete at.” She competes in equestrian triathlons called “eventing,” which involve show jumping, cross
country “endurance” tests, and a type of movement exercise called dressage. “I usually compete five to six weekends in a
typical season, with shows that run Friday through Sunday with three phases,” Woodall said.

Michelle Gooch ’05 can relate to Woodall’s experiences, being a former competitor herself in the eventing discipline. “I was showing
fairly competitively during my earlier years at Davidson,” she said, “which involved riding every day.” Aside from these daily two-hour
barn visits, Gooch also sometimes drove as long as seven hours to weekend eventing competitions. Woodall has become accustomed to
these lengthy road trips, since her competitions take place anywhere from Florida to Virginia.

With its intense time commitment and physical requirement, riding might seem like a difficult fit in the rigorous academic environment.
“I was so competitive and completely focused on riding my first year and a half at Davidson that I was
almost anti-social to a degree,” Gooch said. Though Woodall must “make a lot...of sacrifices in the sense of sleep and
free time,” she knows that it is necessary “to continue working at the upper levels of eventing while having time
for academics and a pretty good social life.” Her love of horses and riding far outweighs these sacrifices, however, and
the true foundation of her commitment is in the special bond she shares with her horse, Will. “It’s really exciting
to compete with him and work with him, but it’s also great just to spend time taking care of him
and playing with him,” said Woodall, who has spent a good deal of time training her horse.

Martha Blakey ’08 also maintains that “the feeling of jumping and completing a course well” is reward enough for the
energy and effort that horse care requires, though she herself doesn’t currently compete in horse shows. Blakey still affirms, however,
that a love of horses and riding in itself is enough of an incentive to go to the barn as
much as possible.

Another incentive that riding provides these students with is the opportunity to “burst the Davidson bubble” and take their minds
off of academics and social commitments for a while. Having to buckle on spurs and a saddle girth before buckling
down to homework can often be therapeutic, since it allows these riders a chance to do something outside of the
typical realm of college life. “I always appreciated the comfort and peace that came with afternoons spent riding at the
barn,” said Gooch. “Being in a barn surrounded by familiar smells and sounds always came as a welcome relief from
the business of Davidson life and made me feel very much at home.”

Bonsai Grill and Sushi Bar
Not just great Sushi, but Chinese and Thai Dishes too!
101 Depot Street
Davidson, NC 28036
Tel.: 704-892-2641
Fax: 704-895-8376
(Please call to confirm all faxed orders)

OPEN 6 DAYS A WEEK
LUNCH: (Mon.-Fri.) 11:00 am-2:30 pm
(Sat.) 11:30 am-2:30 pm
DINNER: (Mon.-Thurs.) 5:00 pm-9:30 pm
(Fri.-Sat.) 5:00 pm-10:00 pm

I wanted to thank you for your support during our first month of opening. It was a great success because
of you. And I also wanted to tell you how happy we are to be a part of this great
community. I came from a small town and as any other small town, you do not have much choice when
it comes to dining. Here, we are glad that we can give you the best of the Orient...Thai, Chinese and
Japanese. If you have not been to our place, come! We have nightly specials that are not on the menu
and I want you to try our Pad Thai. It is a world-famous Thai style stir-fry noodle with chicken, shrimp,
egg, bean sprout and topped with ground peanut. It is truly of the Orient. And during the months of March
and April, FREE soft drinks for just trying our Pad Thai. We hope to see you soon!

Charlie H. Lim

Starting March 27th, we will be closed on Sundays.

maintain her competitive edge, which she and social life of a Davidson student.

SNAPSHOT OF DAVIDSON
photo by Elizabeth Burkhead

The 900 Room has been renamed The Dirty Duck in honor of the RSC.
