THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2005 13

Super Bowl preview:

NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS

Tom Brady still hasn’t lost in eight postseason games after leading the Patriots to Super Bowl rings in 2002 and 2004 and reaching the championship this year, and he looks even more comfortable behind center this season with the addition of Corey Dillon to the New England backfield. New England also finally has a full complement of healthy wideouts, which the Patriots will undoubtedly use to spread the Eagles’ defense out, but Dillon is what makes the offense move this year. The former Bengal rushed for over 1,600 yards and 12 touchdowns this year, and he keeps the defense honest in a way that Kevin Faulk and Antowain Smith never could. With Philly forced to respect the run, Tom Brady will have even more time to find receivers down the field.

PHILADELPHIA EAGLES

Eagles QB Donovan McNabb had a phenomenal season this year, improving on his career quarterback rating by more than 20 points to 104.7. He has been even better in the postseason despite being without injured star receiver Terrell Owens, averaging a 111.3 rating in two playoff games while spreading the ball around to the once-pedestrian group of L.J. Smith, Freddie Mitchell, Todd Pinkston, and Brian Westbrook. Owens’ return would make this offense even more dynamic, especially against a Patriots secondary that has been ravaged by injuries. Still, while Owens may suit up and even play in the game, it is unlikely that his ankle will be healthy enough for him to be the difference-maker the Eagles need in this contest. At best, he may be a decoy for the other Eagles receivers.

The Patriots held Peyton Manning and the Indianapolis Colts to a field goal just three weeks ago, but they appear more susceptible to attack than did the Patriots of ’02 and ’04. The two starting cornerbacks from opening day, Tyrone Poole and Ty Law, are both out for the Super Bowl, and former Pro-Bowl wideout Troy Brown has even been forced into duty in the defensive backfield to provide another body. Another subplot to this game is the possible return of DE Richard Seymour, who would provide the rush that New England needs to keep McNabb and the Eagles in check.

The Eagles lost their top two corners, Troy Vincent and Bobby Taylor, from a year ago, but they have remained strong in the secondary because of the play of Lito Sheppard, Michael Lewis, and Brian Dawkins, all of whom will start for the NFC in the Pro Bowl. The Eagles also upgraded their defensive line in the offseason, signing free agent Jevon Kearse from Tennessee to provide a rush Philly lacked in years past. The Patriots will have to double-team Kearse, which may allow Corey Simon, Darwin Walker, and Derrick Burgess to roam.

Adam Vinatieri has shown that he is virtually immune to pressure after hitting the game-winning kicks in Super Bowl XXXVI and XXXVIII. He has been on top of his game this year as well, converting on 31 of 33 field goals en route to another Pro Bowl appearance. In the return game, the do-it-all Brown is also back fielding punts for the Patriots. Brown hasn’t hit a big return so far in the Pats’ playoff run, but the ability is there.

David Akers may not have the experience of a Super Bowl, but he too has proven that he can make important kicks while making 27 of 32 attempts this year. At the very least, Akers has one of the strongest legs in the game. The Eagles will also throw one of their premier athletes out to field punts, as Westbrook will return to that position after rookie Reno Mahe manned the position all year. Mahe averaged just 5.7 yards per return this season.

Bill Belichick has the Patriots as close to a dynasty as the NFL has seen since the introduction of the salary cap, and he has shown time and again that he can prepare his team for the big games. Brady likewise has performed at his best under the pressure of the Super Bowl, and Dillon adds another dimension to this team that creates an increased sense of confidence.

Chemistry: Patriots
Our Pick: Patriots

Don’t count on last-second kick this time

By JEFF HAMILTON
Guest Columnist

With the New England Patriots’ third trip to the Super Bowl in four years rapidly approaching, their fans’ spirits seem drastically different from those they maintained only four short years ago. Many might expect the enthusiasm of these fans to be diminished by a team that can do no wrong and has come out victorious in 31 of their last 33 games. Not so much. Now, fans are as adamant about joining the...ranks of those oft-reflected on dynasties, the ‘Niners, ‘Skins, and ‘Boys, as they were about winning their first championship in 2001. The better question to ask is: has the excitement level died down for New England fans? Here we may have struck on something. A decreased excitement level, however, should not be directly attributed to winning or losing, but rather to the margin of victory. Recently, the Patriots have begun winning in a different way than their loyal fans and critics became accustomed to (if it’s possible to become accustomed to last-second wins), and one that Coach Bill Belichick must appreciate even though he insists on showing no change in his demeanor. Let’s just proceed under the assumption that his emotions, like his body each Sunday, are bottled up under that hooded sweatshirt he wears. Whereas the first two Super Bowl victories, and countless other wins along the way, came via the arm of Tom Brady or the foot of Adam Vinatieri just as the clock was striking zero, the victories these days are well in hand even before the sale of alcohol is cut off. That’s the end of the third quarter, if you were curious. On Jan. 23 in Pittsburgh, alcohol sales were cut off at halftime. So were the Steelers’ chances at a Super Bowl berth since they were already trailing 24-3. Taking a look at the numbers, we find that this latest installment of the Patriots truly is a different version than the one that ripped off a 21-game winning streak and captured last year’s Super Bowl by a measly three points. Throughout the streak, the Patriots won by an average of nine points per game. Since that ugly loss to the Steelers in week seven (the Pats fielded the worst team they fielded all season that day without Corey Dillon and Deion Branch, among others), Belichick’s boys have taken a turn for the better despite a minor blip in Miami. In their next 10 victories, including this latest win over the Steelers, the Patriots have won by a remarkably dominating 18.7 points per game, more than twice the amount they won by during the 21-game streak. The closest of these games was a seven-point shootout over the Bengals in a game that really wasn’t as close as the score indicates. This impressive ability to rout their foes rather than relying on last-second heroics has undoubtedly reduced the uncanny levels of excitement that accompanied those prior Super Bowls and snow bowls. There is minimal jumping for joy at the last second of regulation when one’s team is up by two, or even three, touchdowns. Since New Englanders seem to always need something to complain about, perhaps if the Patriots cruise past the Eagles on Feb. 6, we will be hearing this one: “That really wasn’t as great as our first two Super Bowl wins. We should have just given up a couple of touchdowns in the fourth quarter so we could experience that unbelievable feeling of instantaneous joy as the ball splits the uprights.” You all know the feeling, the one that sweeps the tight nerves out of your body and replaces them with pangs of sheer ecstasy, and the one I’ve already had the privilege of experiencing in two of the last three Super Bowls. No, I think I'll settle for the blowouts and the dynasty! Andy Reid and the Eagles finally defied the choker reputation, winning the NFC Championship on their fourth try over the Atlanta Falcons. McNabb has played his best football of late and seems to have truly developed into a great leader. The distractions of TO-gate, however, may take away the Eagles’ focus.

Andy Reid is finally Super from Basketball, page 16 from both teams, but the ’Cats’ outside shooting gave them the advantage despite the loss of McKillop early in the game to a shoulder injury. Davidson ended the half with four consecutive three-pointers, including a last-second shot by Winters to make the score 40-26 at intermission. The second half was much lower-scoring, as both teams failed to execute well offensively. Davidson shot just 30 percent from the field, but the Mocs were even worse at 21 percent. Davidson led by as many as 19 points midway through the half, but Chattanooga went on an 11-0 scoring run to close within eight with just over six minutes to play. Winters ended the Davidson scoring drought, though, as his back-to-back field goals restored a comfortable margin. The Mocs then brought the Davidson lead down to six points with 3:13 remaining, but a strong finish by Winters and a clutch three from Morton sealed the victory for the ’Cats. Morton, playing extra minutes due to McKillop’s injury, finished the game with a career-high 22 points. He was 7-20 from the floor, including 6-17 from behind the arc. Winters finished with 19 points and seven rebounds, and Grant continued to lead the team on offense with seven assists.