THE DAVIDSONIAN Arts & LIVING

Show to raise money for Dance Ensemble

By Patricia MASSEY
Special Contributor

Rachel Jeffreys, a producer and announcer with WDAV Radio, is producing and performing a one-woman stage show as a benefit
for the Davidson College Dance Ensemble. “Sheherazade Begins with ‘She’” celebrates the strength and resourcefulness of women and features a
mix of theater and belly dance. It’s a part comic, part serious piece, for which Jeffreys wrote her own adaptation
of stories from “The Thousand and One Nights” and chose music ranging from Loreena McKennitt to Alan Hovhaness to Erik
Satie. It should appeal to those of any gender.

Jeffreys has held creative positions at radio stations for fifteen years and has acted professionally in New York and Washington.
She has been a member of the Davidson College Dance Ensemble for two years.

The Dance Ensemble is one of the fastest growing organizations on campus. Seniors that have been dancing with the Dance
Ensemble for four years recall when there were only 60 performers performing in Hodson Hall. Now the organization has grown
to over 130 members performing in the Duke Family Performance Hall. This semester, they anticipate over 160 performers—about one-tenth of
the student body. In growing, the Dance Ensemble has had an increasing need for funds. They currently spend about $500
every semester on costumes, less than four dollars per dancer. As a growing group, the Dance Ensemble is seeking to
raise money outside of ATC funding, and members are excited about this collaboration with Rachel Jeffreys, who has been an
avid supporter.

Please consider coming out to “Sheherazade Begins With ‘She’” to support the Davidson Dance Ensemble on January 26. Tickets will
be available at the door with a suggested donation of three dollars. Baklava and other pastries will be for sale.

Davidson Dance Ensemble Fundraiser: “Sheherazade Begins With ‘She’”
Wednesday, Jan. 26, 8:30 p.m.
C. Shaw Smith 900 Room

Close knit: scarves and s

By Sara SAMS
Staff Writer

The bipolar North Carolina weather has finally found January, and there are more than a few students on campus actually
thrilled to see its arrival. They’ve been patiently awaiting the perfect chance to adorn themselves in hand-woven scarves, mittens, and
toboggans (there has been some argument over the word “toboggan” in the past, but the definition has been settled as
follows: stocking-like hats that are sometimes called “beanies,” named after the popular sleds that are used in appropriate temperatures for
the donning of these hats).

These students clad in rainbows of wool and acrylic prove that the current trend of domestication is spreading like wildfire;
they are the knitters. To those who have never ventured into this artistic domain, boredom may seem inevitably involved. But
the monotonous clanging of knitting needles has become a favorite hobby of many—and to productive ends, at that. Fashionable clothing
creations can be made at a fraction of the price of factory-produced goods. The palette of colors available, observable upon
browsing the aisles of knitting stores (yes, there are stores devoted solely to knitting; we even have one of our
own in town), can overwhelm the senses. Customized accessories top off an outfit with coordinating style and an ounce of
hip domesticity.

Needlecraft on Main Street offers a plethora of yarn colors, patterns, and knitting tools—the staples of an expanding knitting nation.
If, perchance, you don’t enjoyscarves (acknowledging that, sadly, some don’t possess this love), do not be discouraged. There are other
items to be woven, from custom-colored blankets to drink-containing coozies. The 20 hours sometimes necessary for finalization of a project
is a considerable time investment, but fellow knitter Rachel Berry ’08 reassures beginners that such time need not be spent
continuously. Projects may be abandoned and returned to, accommodating the demands of college life. “It’s soothing and repetitive, as well
as productive,” she says. Learning the basic stitch can take five minutes, so impatient learners may begin after a short
training period. Advanced patterns may be added to one’s knitting repertoire with time.

The act of knitting can be seen in strange places around Davidson: at Summit, with coffee-sipping breaks, in movie theatres,
on Chambers lawn, “even in the bathroom,” admits one anonymous hand-weaving enthusiast. The portable nature of the art kindles its
popularity, allowing creation to occur simultaneously with other important events. A lecture might not prove so sleep-provoking with yarn and
needle in hand, though professors and visiting speakers might not appreciate the skill involved as much as would be hoped.
Lizz Clegg ’08 says that she likes “to do it in front of the TV” so that she doesn’t “feel
bad about watching an extremely dramatic episode of ‘The OC’ without getting something worthwhile done.” She also mentioned her happy
fingers, and perhaps this is one reason why knitting is so addictive. Our fingers are often deprived of athletic activity.
Most sports and attempts at maintaining fitness at the gym leave our digits cramped and weak. Knitting provides exercise for
these too-often neglected body parts. And it is, apparently, addictive.

So join those students in conquering the strangling grip that mass-production has had on our generation’s ability to make things.
Stop by Davidson’s own Needlecraft for materials or lessons, or Stitch, the “in” place to be for knitters on South
Boulevard in Charlotte. But begin your knitting endeavor with caution, and remember Berry’s advice to leave your project from time
to time.

---

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2005

Upcoming Concerts in the Metro Area

Jan. 28 - Dean Fields
His acoustic sound is sure to please the folk-loving.
10:30 p.m. The Evening Muse, Charlotte, NC

Jan. 28 - Sister Hazel
All of the nostalgia for the 90s.
9:00 p.m. Ziggy’s, Winston Salem, NC

Jan. 28 - Something Corporate
The Piano Princes of Emo.
Time TBA, Tremont Music Hall, Charlotte, NC

Feb. 2 - Alison Krauss and Union Station
An evening of bluegrass.
7:30 p.m. Greensboro Coliseum Complex, Greensboro, NC

Feb. 4 - Josh Groban
His voice is worth the drive.
8:00 p.m. RBC Center, Raleigh, NC

Feb. 12 - Robert Earl Keen
Great for those loud and proud Davidson Texans.
9:00 p.m. Ziggy’s, Winston Salem, NC

Feb. 21 - Wilco
9:00 p.m. Ovens Auditorium, Charlotte, NC

Feb. 25 and 26 - Art Garfunkel
The other half of the famous duo.
8:00 p.m. Meymandi Concert Hall, Raleigh, NC

Mar. 11 - The Eagles
8:00 p.m. RBC Center, Raleigh, NC

Mar. 18 - New Found Glory
Bubble-gum punk for angsty teens and those who are angsty teens at heart.
8:00 p.m. Tremont Music Hall, Charlotte, NC

Apr. 2 - Ashlee Simpson
Will she lipsynch? Will she be booed?
7:00 p.m. Ovens Auditorium, Charlotte, NC

Apr. 21 - Motley Crue
7:30 p.m. Greensboro Coliseum Complex, Greensboro, NC
