THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2005

Jo Anne, continued from page 1

“There were so many good things she did behind the scenes,” said Linda Turner, a receptionist at Davidson United Methodist Church (DUMC). Jo Anne sang in her church’s choir and taught Sunday School, and was involved in many service organizations as well. She participated in Habitat for Humanity, fundraisers, Room at the Inn, Operation Christmas Child, and many others. “Even when she was sick, she delivered stuff. She said that she had signed up, and she had to do her part. But she did more than her part,” said Turner.

Davidson’s children know Jo Anne as Mrs. S, the crossing guard who has stood at the crosswalk at Davidson Elementary for 18 years. On March 19, Commissioner John Woods declared the day “Jo Anne Shackelford Day” and christened the crosswalk “Shackelford’s Way.” Earlier this year, on Valentine’s Day, the community paid tribute to the woman whose life “at its core ... was a spirit of wanting to help others,” said Dr. Jody Seymour, Senior Pastor at DUMC. That day, church congregations, schoolchildren, local businesses, and other Davidson residents planned a surprise for Jo Anne. Over 230 bedsheet banners flew throughout the town, each displaying some variation of the message “We love you, Jo Anne.”

Unfortunately, Jo Anne was in the hospital the day the banners were displayed, but friends compiled photos of the signs into an album, and Jo Anne was able to see the banners herself the next day. Jo Anne is survived by her husband, Fred, and their two daughters, Kelly and Tracy. Kelly is expecting the Shackelfords’ first grandchild in June, and Tracy will graduate from Elon University in May. Her memorial service will be at 2 p.m. on Saturday at DUMC. Her family will receive friends afterwards in the Fellowship Hall. In a last act of giving, she has asked for donations to be made to DUMC’s Mission and Youth Fund.

The crosswalk outside Davidson Elementary was named “Shackelford’s Way” in honor of Jo Anne, who worked as a crossing guard at the school for 18 years.

- If you are planning to do research/work on campus, OR
- If you are going to be employed in the area, OR
- If you are attending classes at UNCC...

Davidson can provide housing for the entire summer or on a weekly basis in the Martin Court apartments at very competitive rates. Rent includes utilities, cable, and internet hookups, kitchen facilities, and a private bedroom. Phone service includes one common line for all four residents. Cost for the full summer (12 weeks) is $972, weekly $86, and daily $15.75. Applications will be available in RLO, Room 07, in Belk Basement beginning March 1st. They will be accepted until April 15th, on a first-come, first-serve basis. You must submit (1) A completed application, along with (2) A $100 refundable damage deposit, and (3) A letter/email from your professor/supervisor/employer stating your beginning and ending dates of employment and nature of your work for your application to be complete. Roommate preferences are accepted but not guaranteed. Questions may be directed to Judy Klein at x2341 or juklein@davidson.edu

Touching Lives

On her favorite memory of Jo Anne from when her daughter was in fourth grade: “All of the kids had raised money to go to Space Camp in Huntsville, Alabama. On the morning it left, Jo Anne was there at 4 a.m., with cookies for the kids! Her kids weren't even on that trip!” --Jo Thornburg

“For many years, on Tuesday morning she would drive the homeless from our Room at the Inn back to Charlotte at 5:30 a.m. It was easy to get people for Saturday morning, but on Tuesdays, only Jo Anne would do it. She would drive them down, then go to work at the college, then go be the crossing guard in the afternoon, and then go back to work.” --Linda Turner

“What can I say? My words are not enough to capture Jo Anne's spirit. It takes a remarkable person to make each...and every person one comes in contact with feel like they are a special friend. Jo Anne's indomitable good will brought joy to each and every person she met. One never knew what surprises she would come up with next, from having a group sing "Happy Birthday" to someone over the phone to having her picture taken with Hugh Grant (in an English wax museum), from jumping up to dance through the office when a favorite song played on the radio to her recent wind up and toss of the first pitch of the baseball season on Jo Anne Shackelford Day. I consider myself fortunate to have worked with Jo Anne for 10 years in the Admission Office. Love and joy are contagious. The world will be a better place if we all try to be a little more like Jo.” --Marilyn Ainslie

“When I entered Davidson in the fall of 2002, Jo Anne instantly showered me with love and encouragement as I slowly adjusted to life as a freshman. She selflessly took me under her wing and our lunch dates throughout the year quickly became a favorite of mine. Jo would patiently listen to me ramble, rant, or rave and she had a beautiful way of offering support and wisdom without judgment or criticism. When I studied in Scotland last semester, Jo was always one of the first to reply to my mass emails; even if it was just a quick one-liner, she was always letting me—and others—know that she cared ... The final update about Jo that I received simply stated, “...she slowed down and stopped breathing tonight.” As pained as I was and am to read and reread those few words, I find great comfort in the distinction between ‘stopped breathing’ versus say, ‘stopped living.’ I am convinced that Jo Anne Shackelford will never stop living. Her spirit will continue to live on in the life and breaths of those who knew her and loved her.” --Sarah Cantrell ‘06

“I have spent four years working in the Admission Office, two of which involved working primarily with Jo Anne. I heard the details of her mornings as a crossing guard, learned about the projects in which she was involved, and was prepped for life after college. Among her many roles, Jo Anne serves as one of the Admission Office's “Moms.” Dedicated to making sure students are well-fed, rested, and cared for, these women are our surrogate mothers. If you had a test in an hour, Jo Anne would sequester you off in a corner to study. Anyone with pink eye was given specific instructions to wash all bedding, towels, and clothing in hot water, go to the Health Center, and stay away from the office until further notice—all said with a caring smile and a healthy dose of good humor. I received plenty of motherly advice: “Be careful with the champagne...” “Where’s your coat? Wear one!” “Go home and get some sleep!” When life seemed to be against me, Jo Anne was there to help me set it right. If she was unable to do that, she supported me while I faced those challenges. A hug, a distracting task, a prayer, and a plate of cookies are just some of Jo Anne’s ways of cheering and encouraging those of us in need.” --Bekah Diehl ‘05

“She was certainly a remarkably talented woman in many fields. What I remember most is her laughter. She was always ready to poke fun at herself as well as at situations that made no sense. She had a wry sense of humor that engaged both children and adults.” --Annery Thornberry

“I knew Jo Anne Shackelford more from reputation than from much direct interaction with her. Although many people never had the privilege to interact with Jo Anne frequently, just about everyone in Davidson knew her from her reputation and the wonderful things that people said about her. She was a true exemplar of the “golden rule” and how to live a life of fulfillment and caring for others.” --Merle Schuh