8 THE DAVIDSONIAN replaces Yowl SEE PAGE 2 Guy thinks store name is funny See Page 5 PCC stamp indicates
lack of shower See Page 6 PIKA approximately 3.14 times See Page 8 to roller skates See Page 12

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2005

YOWL UBERTAS DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER It's better when it’s funny

September 28, 2005 The Davidsonian

‘Uncle Tom's Cabin’ deemed offensive, banned from class

After an interdepartmental meeting last Wednesday, the English department has decided to discontinue the reading of the novel “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin” by Harriet Beecher Stowe in English classes at Davidson. The decision was unanimous. Motives behind the decision varied, but
the primary concern is that the book addresses the immoral institution of slavery.

“Frankly, after a thorough analysis of the book,” said Dr. Edith Sandusky, Chair of the English department, “we can’t believe
it was published in the first place. Not only does it portray the horrific practice of slavery, but the entire
book is based upon these social inequities.” The professors feel that ideas and images presented in the novel perpetuated many
stereotypes left over from the slavery periods of American history, such as the inequality of minorities.

Some faculty members were upset about the graphic nature of some parts of the novel. There are scenes in which
slaves are beaten, sexually abused, and even murdered. “I don’t think the depiction of such violence and irresponsible behavior is
something that needs to be taught in the classroom,” stated English professor Dr. Lisa Rowe. “It’s something you see way
too much of in television and movies already. I don’t think we need to reinforce it again in an academic
setting. Violence shouldn’t be an educational matter; it may encourage others to imitate such actions.”

Others were disturbed by the novel’s normalization of the practice of slavery. “Stowe presents an environment where slavery is just
‘an everyday occurrence’,” Dr. Phillip Moore of the Sociology department said.

A picture of the banned classic as it appears on the English department's website

“The novel’s setting describes a reality that is less than ideal, which is unacceptable. Some of the characters in the
novel not only didn’t protest acts of slavery, but were also slaveowners themselves. I completely disagree with them.”

Dr. Cathy Skype of the English department was surprised it was allowed to publish even during the period when slavery
was an established institution. “In order for her work to have been inoffensive and effective, Stowe should have pretended that
the problem of slavery simply didn’t exist, thus successfully removing the whole concept from the public consciousness.”

Dr. Henry Waters of the English department was less critical of the work, but was still in favor of banning
the book. “I understand Stowe’s intention was to be critical of the institution of slavery,” he said, “but she didn’t
make the slave owners evil enough. Simon Legree, for example, could, in addition to being irreligious and sexually abusing his
slaves, also have had shifty eyes and plans of world conquest, so that students could be sure his behavior was
not condoned.”

Dr. Rita Younger, also of the English department, offered a similar interpretation of the novel. “Although the decision, commented, “I
had always interpreted that book as promoting slavery since that’s what it was all about, and some of the main
characters were slave owners.”

Steve Palmer ’09 was also happy he won’t have to read the book in any of his classes. “Unlike in
most English classes, when I read ‘Uncle Tom’s Cabin’ I didn’t find myself giggling over existentialist philosophies or the boy
quiz in the new issue of Teen People,” he said. “Instead, I was appalled to find a book full of
racial inequalities and violence.”

A few students have protested the disbarring, claiming it amounts to censorship and goes against the foundations of a liberal
arts education. In response to these outcries, Sandusky remarked, “It is the onus of a professor to impose his or
her personal interpretation of the novel. AlthoughHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

“It is the onus of a professor to impose his or her personal beliefs upon their students.” Condemning something that
we find offensive or distasteful is one of the easiest ways to do this. Because ‘Uncle Tom’s Cabin’ presents a
normalized reality containing social inequalities based on something as arbitrary as race, we feel it should neither be read nor
discussed in an academic setting.”

Most students, as well, were in favor of the banning of the book. Anne Higgins ’08, after hearing of the
banning, said, “Uncle Tom’s Cabin failed because it caused unproductive, rather than productive, discomfort.”

In response to student movie-viewing in Chambers, the Davidson administration has created a new position, Dean of Other, to oversee
various regulations that are not enforced by the college, but that are strongly suggested. Students watching movies in the Chambers
academic building has become a major annoyance for professors who are forced to waste valuable class time setting up video
equipment that could be better spent watching videos.

The administration solidified their position on this issue last week by explaining that while such activities are prohibited, they are
not considered a violation of any written rule. “There is no part of the Code of Responsibility that outlaws viewing
movies or spending leisure time in Chambers, but we would really rather you not do it. So don’t go in
there and rewire our projectors, promise? Pinky-swear?” said Dean of Other Mayfield.

Assistant Dean of Student Discipline James O'Reilly added, “Many problems stem from the fact that people are just not focused
enough on the miscellaneous. That will be our first goal.”

This existence of a gray area between Code of Responsibility violations and indiscretions that fall in the “other” category demanded
the creation of the new title. Newly-appointed Dean of Other William Mayfield is no stranger to the extraneous. His last
position, as Director of Understood Behavior at Kenyon College, is not dissimilar from the role that he will perform at
Davidson. “At Kenyon, we cut down on crimeless crimes by 67 percent during my tenure. I expect Davidson to be
no different. I have found that many problems stem from the fact that people are just not focused enough on
the miscellaneous. That will be our first goal,” said Mayfield.

Student outcry over the decision has been strong, as many undergraduates use Chambers classrooms to relax and unwind after a
long day of going to class. The large video projectors were enjoyed by many students who either do not own
proper film equipment or do not own one that is as nice. “Watching movies in Chambers was one of my
favorite things to do,” said Rachel Molson ’07. “The screens are way bigger than the 17-inch television I have in
my room. Also, sometimes I like to stand at the front of the classroom and pretend that I’m a teacher.”

Some students plan on spending their movie-watching time at the Union or in their rooms, while other students have decided
to go about their business as if nothing had changed. Along with movie viewing in Chambers, numerous student activities fall
under the official designation of “other.” Mayfield listed some behavior of primary concern as obnoxiously cheering at sporting events or
prefacing all in-class statements with what you do in your home state. Mayfield believes that his policy changes are already
having an effect on the student body. “I like to work from the ground level to implement my regulations. If
I see a student doing something I don’t like, I just walk up to them and say, ‘Hey, stop it.’”

Other No-No’s:
- Deleting Career Services email before reading it
- Dropping candy scooper in bin at the Union Cafe
- Spending more than 30 minutes on a treadmill
- Leaving logged in computer unattended for more than 15 minutes
- Walking on new grass
- Skipping hall programs
- Going to the Union and taking “Nate’s” quesadilla (not applicable to people actually named Nate)
- Painting flames on a campus bike and declaring it not only yours but “totally awesome”
- Protesting fake news

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

---

Section Editors: Bobby Kenner and Jeff Yeakel
Emotional Support: Mac Wilkie
Emotional Succubus: Brent McCormick
