‘12 THE DAVIDSONIAN - Week in Review : The Week Ahead ©

Ole sports you fans.

BROOKIE’S PICKS

Wildcat Genie et of the Week

Outside the Den

Baseball vs. Georgetown
Wilson Field
Sunday, Feb. 20, 2:30 p.m.

It’s not quite spring and it still won’t be even when we get back from “Spring” Break, but baseball season
is starting anyway. The Wildcats began the season with an impressive upset win over Wake Forest, so go support these
guys in their — this season.

No. 5 Wake Forest at No. 8 Duke

This game, like so many others in the ACC this year, could have a significant impact on the layout of
play. The game should be incredible; it doesn’t get much better than Daniel Ewing and J.J. Redick against Justin.

SPORTS

Here’s a quick trivia question for you: of the 19 head coaches here at Davidson, how many are minorities? Zero.
Zilch. Nada.

For the most part, sports have kept pace with an increasing move towards diversity. In fact, sports have often been
ahead of the societal curve. Jackie Robinson suited up for the Dodgers long before Rosa Parks ever boarded the bus
in Montgomery. Mia Hamm did far more for women’s equality in sports than anything Title IX could ever have done.
Unfortunately, as evidenced by our little trivia lesson, that progress has not yet reached all areas of sport.

The issue of coaching diversity is one that transcends Davidson, and the issue has gained increasing momentum in the past
few years as the Black Coaches Association has become a more vocal entity in regards to the hiring practices in
Division I football. It is well documented that only three of the 117 coaches in I-A football are minorities, including
the recently relocated Tyrone Willingham. The BCA has made public pleas for better representation on the sidelines, asking that schools
involve minority candidates in every coaching search and then grading the various schools’ hiring practices annually. But minority coaches still
aren’t being represented proportionately in the hiring process, as only about five percent of all Division I coaches in football
and basketball are minorities. On the other hand, approximately 50 percent of the athletes in those two sports are minorities.
Still, that five percent total is better than Davidson’s goose egg across the board.

“Diversity is a priority at Davidson,” said Athletics Director Jim Murphy, “and our hiring practices and each of our searches
reflect that. At the same time, though, we have to be realistic. Our salary structures are not likely to attract
many minority applicants because they often have the chance for higher-paying opportunities.”

“We are trying to have market salaries,” continued Murphy. “Exceptional coaches require competitive salaries.”

According to Murphy, it also used to be difficult to find diversity along gender lines, and women were once under-represented
on the Wildcat sidelines. Davidson has made progress in the hiring of female coaches in recent years, though, as six
of the nine women’s sports are now coached by women. Still, the same degree of progress has not been made
in the employment of racial minorities. Davidson recently hired Ernest Moss as an assistant track and field coach, and former
Wildcat Ryan Crawford ’00 has been on the football coaching staff for two seasons. Other than those two, however, not
a single minority coach is on staff.

Terriers have better shots.

Thursday, February 17

Charleston over WOFFORD

The ’Cats handed Charleston its first home conference loss of the season Monday night. The Cougars should bounce back with
a win at Wofford as they try to keep the pressure on Georgia Southern in the race for the South’s
second seed at the conference tournament.

Drew: Charleston
Wilson: Charleston

Ga. Southern over FURMAN

Furman is coming off a bad loss to a hot ASU team. GSU should come into Greenville and take care
of business as the Eagles attempt to secure the all-important bye in the conference tourney.

Drew: GSU
Wilson: GSU

Chattanooga over WESTERN

The third road victory of the night shouldn’t come as a surprise. UTC is now in the driver’s seat for
the North title after beating UNCG, and WCU won’t stop UTC’s drive to the division crown.

Drew: UTC
Wilson: UTC

Saturday,February 19

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2005

A minority is represented in the coaching ranks at Davidson. I understand on a certain level that it is difficult
to hire the ideal candidate for every position, as budgetary and time constraints often force Davidson’s hand in the hiring
process. As Murphy says, “A lot of [the hiring process] has to do with timing and who’s out there.” Still,
it seems that if a greater emphasis were placed on minority recruitment, a diverse sideline would be more of a
reality instead of a pipe dream.

In a time when the BCA is crying bloody murder for the colleges to recognize minority applicants, there must be
some qualified applicants in all sports that would consider coming to Davidson. Yes, that may be for a price higher
than Davidson would ideally like to pay for a coach, and the budget is not of the eight-figure variety like
certain state schools to our north and south. At the same time, though, the Davidson admissions department has gone to
great lengths to bring in a diverse student body to this campus despite the costs because it is a priority.
If an equal emphasis were placed on minority recruitment in the athletic department, I imagine we could likewise see a
jump in diversity on the sideline.

The minority applicant pool is increasing, and in 10 or 20 years it will be easier to hire a diverse
group of coaches without going to extraordinary lengths. But if we have decided it is a worthy venture to recruit
a more diverse student body in the present, despite the costs, then isn’t a diverse professional group just as important?
Yes. Fortunately for us, there’s nowhere to go but up.

CITADEL over Elon

Finally, my two least favorite teams play each other. I always seem to lose money on both of these bustas.
The Citadel hasn’t won a conference game in its last five tries, and Elon is finally coming back to earth.
Knowing this, whoever I choose to win will probably lose, so take this pick with a grain of salt.

Drew: Elon
Wilson: The Citadel

App. State over UNCG

ASU has charged hard for the North’s second seed after five straight conference wins. UNCG is coming off back-to-back conference
losses to Davidson and UTC, and I’m looking for its third in a row on Saturday.

Drew: UNCG
Wilson: UNCG

Furman over WOFFORD

The Terriers have won the Westminster Dog Show in 43 out of 96 competitions. Furman beat Wofford by 17 points
just a week ago. Given this information, I’ll take the Paladins despite their sub-.500 conference road record.

Drew: Furman
Wilson: Wofford

Monday, Feb. 21

Ga. Southern over WOFFORD

I wish I could pick Wofford to win at home, since they did beat Elon last week, but once again
I have to pick the road team. Wofford kept it close in the last meeting, as the Terriers only lost
by three on the road, but the Eagles are the superior team here.

Drew: Wofford
Wilson: GSU

ETSU over Chattanooga

This pick is definitely a reach. ETSU was spanked earlier in the season by UTC, but the Bucs may be
heating up at the right time after winning their last two home games by an average of 13.5 points.

Drew: ETSU
Wilson: ETSU

Tuesday, February 22

UNCG over Elon

UNCG’s loss to the Phoenix on Jan. 31 sparked Elon’s three-game winning streak. I expect UNCG to get back on
track with this game after every team in the conference made fun of the Spartans for allowing Elon’s first conference
win of the year.

Drew: UNCG
Wilson: UNCG

App. State over Western

The Mountaineers will continue their impressive win streak this week when an overmatched Western team comes to play at the
Holmes Center.

Drew: ASU
Wilson: ASU

Davidson over THE CITADEL

Congratulations to the ’Cats on their South Division title. Will Davidson be able to keep its perfect conference record alive
the rest of the way? One thing is for sure, they won’t be underdogs on the road for the rest
of the regular season after beating the Cougars on Monday night.

Drew: Davidson
Wilson: Davidson
