THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2005 7

‘No Direction Home’ explores legendary icon
By WILSON MCBEE
Staff Writer

Martin Scorsese’s documentary “No Direction Home,” which premiered last week on PBS and is available now on DVD, is the
latest display in a national exhibition of Bob Dylan-worship which has been raging since about 1997, when Dylan, just over
a brush with a nearly-fatal heart disease, released the critically lauded comeback album “Time Out of Mind.” Since then it’s
been all Grammy-winning, magazine cover-posing, memoir-publishing, Victoria’s Secret model-fondling for the serpentine croaker. He continues to tour relentlessly, performing at
state fairs, minor league baseball fields, and Wal-Mart parking lots — anywhere, it seems, bizarre enough to please his palate.

Scorsese’s PBS documentary focuses on Dylan’s early years. Christopher Ricks, a former professor at Cambridge University and a noted scholar
of Tennyson, Eliot, and Keats, published “Dylan’s Visions of Sin,” an academic treatment of Dylan’s lyrics. Take this line from
the Associated Press, describing Dylan’s 1997 audience with Pope John Paul II: “It’s the stuff of which legends are made:
the rebel who’s been knock, knock, knocking on heaven’s door meeting the man with the keys to the kingdom.”

And so, given Dylan’s current demigod-like status, it seems a bit shocking that so much of the footage in Scorsese’s
documentary captures a young Bob Dylan performing to crowds of booing fans. Teenaged Brits interviewed leaving a 1966 concert openly
scoff at the future Kennedy Center honoree and papal guest; they’re not afraid to be captured on camera.

‘Changing Minds’ tackles mental health issues
By GEORGIE AHRENDT
Health Advisor

It’s not too often that we find room in our weekly planners to pencil in a little time for ourselves.
In between classes, meetings, homework, and socializing, our mental health just doesn’t make the cut. Sometimes even basic hygiene gets
pushed back to squeeze in more time for studying. (Or maybe that’s just me.)

Starting this year, a group of students are standing up for mental health at Davidson and making a bold statement:
“It’s ok to feel depressed, angry, stressed, pressured, confused, frustrated, and insecure. And you are not alone!” The group Changing
Minds is brand new but the issues it addresses are not.

“Mental health disorders and problems run rampant on this campus, and the seriousness of these issues demands an active dialogue,”
said Megan Sparks ’06, founder and president of Changing Minds. The Changing Minds members intend to actively open up dialogue
and increase awareness about a wide variety of issues related to mental health: depression, eating disorders, anxiety, addiction, and stress,
among other things.

Several events are currently in the works. Among them is a week in November dedicated to mental and bodily health.
The week includes a night called “Faces,” which will allow students to informally speak out about their own personal experiences
with eating disorders and other related issues.

While diagnosable disorders like anorexia, bulimia, and depression are a worrisome reality here on campus, non-clinical problems are also ever-present
and in no less need of attention. We all at some point or another suffer from stress. Some of us
take it out on our pen caps; others target their friends. Some eat away unease; others drink away distress. No
matter what, we could all use a little help now and then — that is, if you’re not too proud
to admit it.that maybe a little assistance, support, and comfort would be welcome. All too often the symptoms of mental
distress go unnoticed. It’s not until you’ve hit rock bottom that you realize there is a problem. Changing Minds recognizes
the importance of awareness. The group hopes that students can learn the symptoms of mental health disorders before they spiral
out of control. Taking the time to breathe and to look inward doesn’t always come naturally but sometimes has to
be learned and practiced. There is a group mentality that we all live in a “Pleasantville.” There are certainly some
elements of truth to this statement, but there are also quite a few unpleasant things that happen here at Davidson.
The more we feed into and confirm the idea that we live in a the more it masks reality and
normalizes an unattainable ideal, making change impossible. We need to break through the group construct of what Davidson is and
what it means to be a Davidson student. We need to stop and take a look at ourselves (not just
at the group) and embrace ourselves as individuals, even if that means embracing the bad along with the good. We
need to start changing.

Featured on film accusing Dylan of “prostituting himself” by playing those “rather corny” songs like “Like a Rolling Stone.” “No
Direction Home” covers the earliest years of Dylan’s career: from the boyhood in Minnesota and his turn as a Greenwich
Village folk hero, through the career-erupting descent into electric rock and roll, to the mysterious motorcycle accident of July 1966
which sent him into hiding for fifteen months. New interviews with Dylan accompany commentary from Joan Baez, Peter Yarrow (of
Peter, Paul, and Mary), and, most interestingly, Liam Clancy (a red-faced Irish expatriate and member of folk group The Clancy
Brothers), among others, and footage from D. A. Pennebaker’s unfinished concert documentary “Eat the Document,” filmed during the 1966 boo-laden
tour of England.

In today’s era of the couch-jumping, Kabbala-preaching, political sloganizing celebrity, it’s inspiring to see someone so unconcerned with image, or,
better put, so willing to sacrifice his image to an artistic vision. Scorsese’s interviews with Dylan, like the memoir “Chronicles,”
should be viewed as nothing more than escapes from definition or clarification. Who really believes that the teenaged Robert Zimmerman
wanted to go to West Point but turned to music because he “probably couldn’t get in”? Every statement Dylan makes
in the film should be taken as seriously as this answer to a journalist’s query, circa 1964: “I consider myself
mostly a song and dance man.” Dylan is so purposefully evasive and cryptic that one wonders if he is even
aware of the last thing he has said while saying the next. During the first thirty minutes of Scorsese’s film
he pronounces “ideology” two different ways as if to stress the word’s insignificance.

It was the belief that Dylan was more than just a strolling troubadour and was instead a “protest singer” with
ironclad convictions that caused fans across America and Europe to boo their hero so mercilessly in 1966. They thought they
knew Bob Dylan, a position we know now to be pitifully naive. Scorsese chooses to end “No Direction Home” with
a moment that illustrates Dylan’s manic allegiance to his art over everything and everyone else. On stage with his electric
backing band, attempting to tune his guitar amidst a thundering drove of boos and taunts of “Judas,” Dylan orders his
artistic mantra: “Play f—ing loud!”

Campus chums with a yummy ice cream cake. Birthdays, study breaks, exam time, graduation or just for fun! 202 South
Main St. Davidson, NC. 704-892-0604

WRITE FOR ARTS
email jablue or rewildman
