14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Men’s tennis loses close match against nationally-ranked USC

By ERIK SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

The men’s tennis team returned to action last week after tough opening matches at nationally-ranked N.C. State and North Carolina. After a straightforward 7-0 win over Belmont Abbey on Wednesday, one in which the Wildcats lost only seven games in the entire match, Davidson hosted three matches in two days over the weekend, culminating in an exciting and rare opportunity to push a ranked opponent to the limit.

After defeating Presbyterian 5-2 on Saturday morning, Davidson hosted Richmond, traditionally one of its toughest and tightest matches, in the afternoon. The fatigued Wildcats got off to a slow start, losing the doubles point to fall to an early 1-0 deficit. In singles action, only Flav Simihaian ’08 and Jay Chitty ’07 were victorious as Davidson lost 5-2.

Davidson returned to the court Sunday, however, and the Wildcats hung with No. 38 South Carolina until late in the match. Russ Burns ’05 had a match-point opportunity at the third singles spot, but two miracle shots from his opponent prolonged the contest, and he would not get another chance to earn the win. Burns lost in a tie-breaker in the second set and ended up falling 1-6, 7-6(5), 6-1. That win at the third position gave the Gamecocks the fourth and final point they needed to seal the victory, but only after Davidson gave them a fight they were surely not expecting.

The drama began from the start on Sunday, as all three doubles matches were tightly contested. While South Carolina clinched the early doubles point with close 8-5 wins at positions two and three, the top Davidson doubles team of Burns and Joe Cheaney ’06 refused to concede. The Wildcats and Gamecocks battled back and forth at the top doubles position, but the Wildcats won in a tiebreaker, 9-8(3).

“That win helped a lot,” said Cheaney. “It boosted our morale and showed us that those guys are beatable. That’s the biggest thing: as much as coaches say that you can beat the guys, it’s a lot more believable after you actually do it.”

South Carolina increased its overall lead to 3-0 with fairly routine wins at the top two singles positions, but Daniel Bermeo ’06 put the Wildcats on the board with a hard-fought 3-6, 6-4, 6-4 win at the fourth position. Davidson suddenly had hope, as Jay Chitty ’07 was up a set at five and Cheaney was leading his opponent at six before Burns fell short in his match. The final two matches were not completed after South Carolina clinched the victory, leaving the final score at 4-1.

“Competing close against South Carolina, the 38th-ranked team in the country, shows us that we can compete with any team in the country, especially in the Southern Conference,” said Cheaney. Burns echoed Cheaney’s sentiments, expressing optimism despite his disappointing singles loss. “We played tight with them up and down the line,” he said. “We’ve gained a lot of confidence and have proven to ourselves that we can compete with intensity, no matter the situation.”

The loss against South Carolina left the Wildcats with a 1-2 record for the weekend and a 2-4 record overall. The Wildcats played all four matches last week without their top player, Donald Miles ’05, who is still recovering from an ankle injury he suffered last spring. The coaches hope to have Miles back on the court soon, and he may be ready for the Feb. 16 match with Queens.

Photo by Dorsett Clark
Jay Chitty ’07 was one of the only ’Cats to win against Richmond, and he was also up a set against USC before the match ended.

The Wildcat Pulse: a look at Davidson athletics

Atias, Flessa lead track and field at East Tennessee weekend meet

This past weekend, the men’s and women’s track and field teams traveled to East Tennessee State University for the East Tennessee Special Indoor Meet. Both teams consisted almost entirely of underclassmen, with only a handful of seniors present on both sides, so the meet was yet another opportunity for the youth to both gain experience and perform well on a big stage.

Megal Atias ’08 turned in the most impressive performance on the women’s side, as she finished third in the mile with a time of 5:16.10. In the 200, Amaka Obidegwu ’08 and Karina Nascimento ’08 finished in 29.21 and 29.71, respectively, while teammates Summerlee Walter ’08 and Cecie Blair ’08 ran the 400 in times of 62.92 and 64.34. The women had four runners, Mary Meghan Daly ’08, Colleen McKown ’08, Hilary Leister ’06, and Atias in the 800, and Leister crossed the line first in a time of 2:24.97, with McKown, Atias, and Daly following close behind. In the field events, Kim Pierre ’05 and Obidegwu competed in the shot, while Jessica Chasen ’07 finished ninth in the long jump. McKown was excited with all of the performances, saying, “[The team] seemed pretty strong for only thesecond meet of the year.” Chasen echoed that sentiment: “All of us made good improvements in working towards our goals. Now we just have to stay focused, keep working hard, and push one another to do our best.”

For the men, Stefan Flessa ’08 and Andy Kifer ’08 turned in the best performances of the day. Flessa recorded the third-fastest time in Davidson history in the 200, and Kifer raced to a personal record in the 800 in his first-ever collegiate indoor meet. Three other runners, John Bialas ’07, Paul Wyatt ’05, and Cisco Morales ’07, competed in the 200 with Flessa, who finished in 22.89. Flessa and Morales joined co-captain Dave Ritchie ’07, who is still recovering from tendonitis in his Achilles tendon, in the 400. Ritchie finished 11th in 51.22, one of the fastest indoor marks in school history. Flessa, meanwhile, ran in 53.24, and Morales came through in 54.05.

Both Kifer and Brad Troxell ’08 competed in the 800, with Kifer crossing the line in seventh with a time of 2:00.84. Troxell, who has been hampered by injuries during the season, finished with a time of 2:08.26. The 400 relay team of Flessa, Bialas, Wyatt, and Ritchie recorded the third-fastest time in an indoor meet in Davidson history, finishing in seventh with a time of 3:28.40. Finally, Andrew Hazen ’07 finished the 1600 in 4:51.30. Mike Anselmo ’06 and Joe Taylor ’06 competed in the shot, while Bialas and Wyatt did the long jump and triple jump, respectively.

Coach Gary Andrew was pleased with the outcome. “With each competition we’re gaining more confidence and becoming more competitive.” Taylor said, “It was exciting to compete at such a large and important event this early in the season.” Flessa, meanwhile, was just happy seeing Ritchie perform well, as he believes that “[Ritchie’s] a beast and makes our team a lot better.”

Both teams now have a week off before traveling to Clemson this weekend for the Clemson Invitational, their last meet before the indoor conference championships.

-By Britt Mercadante, Staff Writer

Wrestlers fall to VMI, fail to win first SoCon match of the season

The Wildcats hoped to convert the momentum of a 30-13 win over Franklin & Marshall into their first Southern Conference victory in years, but Davidson fell to both Appalachian State and Virginia Military Institute this past week.

Against App. State, Davidson began well after Trebor Clavette ’08 earned a major decision to move to 11-0 in dual matches this season, but that was the extent of the good news for the ’Cats. Davidson dropped the next four matches to fall into a 19-4 hole at the midway point. Patrick Coman ’06 and Matt Pendle ’08 both earned pins to pull Davidson closer, but their efforts were not enough to avoid the 29-16 loss. The Mountaineers have had the ’Cats’ number for years, as Davidson has not beaten App. State in a series in two decades.

Davidson returned to Belk Arena on Monday to take on VMI, another SoCon foe, and the ’Cats came out with renewed fire against the Keydets. Coman began the match on a positive note, as he earned a 4-2 victory at 125 to give Davidson an early lead. Matt Leonard ’06 earned a 5-0 shutout at 141 and Benjamin Graham ’08 pushed his opponent to sudden death at 149. Graham could not convert on the victory, though, as he fell 8-6 in the extra period. Pendle responded with his 13th pin of the season, tying the school record, but Davidson would get no closer on the day. The Keydets swept the heavier division to earn the 31-12 victory.

-By Will Bryan, Staff Writer

Despite solid individual performances, swim teams lose to Clemson

The swimming and diving teams concluded their regular season this week with a meet at Clemson. The men lost 127-87 and the women fell 133-86 against a tough ACC foe that had both squads outmatched nearly from top to bottom. The men finished the season 3-7, including 2-3 in the Colonial Athletic Association, while the women finished 4-8 and 2-3 in the CAA.

Overall, Clemson dominated the meet, but several Davidson swimmers did excel. Will Broughton ’08 won the 1000 free with a time of 9:44.79, and Megan Hollar ’06 won the 200 individual medley in 2:13.49. In addition to these two individual victories, the women’s 400 medley relay team, consisting of Trisha Blackwell ’05, Hollar, Brigit Barry ’07, and Kirsten Allen ’08 captured first with a time of 4:03.07, the team’s best time of the season.

The swimmers now turn their efforts to preparing for the conference championships, which begin Feb. 23 in Fairfax, Va. Captain Foster Mathews ’05, who did not swim due to an injured knee, said, “This was our last tune-up against a much bigger team. Everybody swam well, and now we’re just starting to rest and get ready for conferences.” Mathews also said, “[The team is] looking for the freshmen to come up big. They have been swimming well throughout the season, and we’re hoping that continues [at SoCons].”

-By Steve Halliday, Senior Staff Writer