THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES

Freedom isn’t free for college professors

Freedom, Team America told us, isn’t free. It costs a buck-o-five. And sometimes your job. Such is the case with
two contrarian professors in the news recently. Ward Churchill, a University of Colorado ethnic studies professor, has provoked imprecations from
people of all political backgrounds. Churchill wrote an essay comparing some victims of the 9/11 attack to Adolf Eichmann, the
Nazi logistics man behind the macabre details of the Holocaust. The essay and a related book raised nary an eyebrow
until Churchill was booked to talk in January at Hamilton College. In mid-December, a Hamilton faculty member came across Churchill’s
comments and made them well known. Eventually, the whole business made it to The O’Reilly Factor, where equanimity goes to
die. The school subsequently received so many threats of violence that it felt compelled to rescind Churchill’s invitation. The upshot
of all this is that Churchill has become a martyr. Colorado Governor Bill Owens has thundered that he be fired,
and the University of Colorado’s board of regents is considering doing just that.

In Nevada, a state where being offensive often requires considerable labor, another professor has discovered the apparent limits of free
speech. Hans Hoppe, an economist with close to 20 years of teaching experience, was giving a lecture to his money
and banking class about planning for the future. Some groups, Hoppe noted, plan for the future less than others. As
one of his examples, Hoppe said that homosexuals generally plan less for the future than heterosexuals do because, in part,
of their lack of children and their more dangerous lifestyles. Hoppe added that some economists aver that John Maynard Keynes,
who championed a “spend it now” attitude, was influenced by his homosexuality. One of Hoppe’s students made a formal complaint.
Initially, the college said it would issue Hoppe a reprimand and dock him his next week’s pay. Hoppe’s dean and
the university provost would have none of it. After more hearings, the university gave Hoppe time to think about their
offer, which would give Hoppe a letter of reprimand and deny him his next pay increase.

The principled defender of free speech will support both Churchill and Hoppe. The truth of their claims does not hold
primacy. There are circumstances under which a professor demands public censure, but they are qualitatively different from the ones described
above. If a professor of European history were to deny the Holocaust, any college or university would be perfectly justified
in firing him or her because of ignorance or avoidance of a simple critically important fact. Holding views that are
stupid or poorly expressed are not necessarily of this nature. Neither Churchill nor Hoppe works for a private institution, but
suppose they did, and suppose this school was called Davidson. While the institution would have the right to fire a
professor for anything he or she said or did, if one cherishes a culture of free speech, one would still
have to oppose the institution’s actions in the interests of open inquiry. For instance, Catholic schools may be well within
their legal rights to actively discourage pro-choice advocacy and may cite Catholic teachings as justification, but if an institution of
higher learning is to graduate mature adults with mature views, it is hard to see how shutting down debate can
serve this purpose. “Life is doubt,” the Spanish writer Miguel de Unamuno noted, “and faith without doubt is nothing but
death.” So let’s pay that buck-o-five.

Ashish George is a sophomore from Greensboro, N.C. Contact him at asgeorge@davidson.edu.

Meal plan reform should be goal for SGA

Here’s a hypothetical for all newly elected SGA officers: So you were up really late last Saturday... studying. It was
a long night, a busy night. All that typing and researching has given you a dull headache and slightly dry
mouth this Sunday morning, but you’re pretty sure you will survive. You stretch, turn over, take a look at your
alarm clock... and prepare to starve. It’s 1:30 p.m. in the afternoon and there’s no way you’re making it to
Commons in 15 minutes. There goes your breakfast and lunch. Sadly, this too has happened before. Of course, there is
the Union, but if you’re like most of the students here, the Union represents little more than an aggravating waste
of money when it’s not between the hours of six and eight. Every cent counts here for most of us,
and between books, lab fees, school supplies, and the essential late-night quesadilla pick-me-up, little money is left over for meals
that really should be provided as basic fare. Considering what students, especially freshmen, pay here for the meal plan, it
is ridiculous that many of us are not able to put it to good use because of unreasonable time constraints.
Granted, many would say it is unreasonable to be in bed after noon, but college life is often unreasonable. And
weekend brunch is hardly the main problem. Though classes may end by 5 p.m. on Davidson’s campus, college life is
made up of much more than class. Students here have crazy extracurricular schedules; over-commitment is almost a universal trademark of
a Davidson student. Between sports practices, dance rehearsals, and late-night AT sessions, is it really reasonable to expect everyone to
have eaten by 8 p.m. across campus? (It’s not.) And then what about those of us who just don’t like
eating dinner at 5? We’re not 80 years old; we’re not looking for early bird specials just yet. Eating at
8, 9, even 10 p.m. is not that rare, and it’s even been proven to be healthier than eating as
early as 5 p.m. Considering many of us don’t get to bed until one or two in the morning because
of school work, does Davidson really expect us to be held over by a 6 p.m. dinner at Commons? It
seems ridiculous that the college administration really expects us to be satisfied by the one sandwich and drink we can
afford on the meal plan at the Union. If the college would make it easier for us to eat a
balanced dinner later in the night, the amount of midnight sugar and caffeine and fried bread and cheese binges on
campus would surely diminish. Here’s the challenge for the new SGA: apply some pressure to the Davidson administration. If they
want healthier andhappier students as a whole, make the necessities of life not only available, but easily available. If it’s
really too difficult to keep Commons open later, make meal plan hours at the Union a little bit longer. It’s
just asking for a little flexibility and cooperation. We’ll leave the issue of an on-campus movie theater until another day.

Halley Aelion is a freshman from Bowie, Md. Contact her at haaelion@davidson.edu.

Davidsonian SGA endorsement was an abuse of influence

As you probably know, last week the Davidsonian chose to endorse a candidate for president of the SGA. While some
may view this as an acceptable move on the part of the Davidsonian, I cannot. I do not care who
the Davidsonian endorsed; the simple fact is that a Davidsonian-endorsed candidate has an incredibly powerful backing that cannot be found
elsewhere on campus. When the editorial board for this newspaper suggests who should be elected, many will listen. Therein lies
a significant problem.

When a newspaper endorses a candidate in the real world, other newspapers may endorse other candidates. Moreover, the governments for
which the elections are taking place do not fund the newspapers. The Davidsonian, however, is the only real newspaper on
campus. In addition, the student government funds it. Might the editors ever have a conflict of interest? It is entirely
possible. Some candidates may place fliers in their dorms, or possibly visit their halls, but many freshmen will not know
the people who are running. Let us picture the mind of an undecided voter: “I wonder who I should vote
for? Oh, but wait, the Davidsonian says I should vote for Candidate A. Well, their argument is logical and well-written,
and they would probably know what they are talking about, so I guess I will vote for him or her.”
An undecided voter’s mind may not work quite like this, but you can see the problem. Will elections degenerate into
a scrap to grab the prized endorsement of the Davidsonian?

There may be some benefits to the Davidsonian’s endorsement plan. In the future, candidates may have to clearly define their
objectives and interests, and it is possible that the student body will benefit from added pressure to candidates.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2005

Between the lines of the Bush budget

Coming off a re-election campaign in which President Bush found it much easier to speak generally about the need to
reduce the federal budget deficit than to actually discuss ways to do so, the recently-proposed budget for fiscal year 2006
represented the president’s first chance to show the country that he’s finally serious about tackling the deficit. He has badly
blown that chance, as the new budget contains stunning dishonesty about levels of spending over the next few years, wildly
unrealistic proposals for spending cuts, and a clearer and more frightening revelation of this administration’s true agenda than has been
seen to this point.

Any belief that this budget represents a serious effort at reducing the deficit is shattered when one looks at expenditures
that it doesn’t include at all. For example, the budget mentions nothing about the transition costs of Bush’s plan to
privatize Social Security, which most estimate at just under $1 trillion for the first decade. It doesn’t include future military
spending for Afghanistan and Iraq. It doesn’t take into account the cost of reforming or repealing the Alternative Minimum Tax,
which the Brookings Institution puts at about $600 billion over the next decade. In short, as the Democratic Leadership Council
put it, “the administration is spilling red ink faster than it can even pretend to mop it up.”

This is especially true considering some of the fantasyland spending cuts the budget proposes. A massive cut in farm subsidies,
for example, wouldn’t even get the support of prominent Republicans such as the chair of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Thad
Cochran of Mississippi, who told the Washington Post that he didn’t think anyone in the administration seriously believed such cuts
could be passed. Unfortunately, however, there are also some major spending cuts in the budget that congressional Republicans probably would
be willing to pass, and these are of even greater concern. Under the budget as submitted, funding would be slashed
for President Clinton’s COPS program, which added 100,000 new police officers nationwide and which helped produce the record drops in
crime of the 1990s. The working poor would be hit with a cruel double-whammy: tighter restrictions would end food-stamp aid
to about 300,000 more families, while funding for the child-care assistance so important to many current and former welfare recipients
in search of work would be cut enough to deny this vital service to another 300,000. These cuts come at
the same time as the administration proposes to gradually remove limits on deductions for wealthy taxpayers; 97 percent of the
benefits from this plan would go to those making over $200,000.

It is utterly clear from this budget that the Bush administration is in no way serious about the need to
reduce the deficit. Even worse, it is just as clear that they are deadly serious about their desire to cut
funding for programs that help poor people at the same time as they expand tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans.
How the president can still talk about “moral values” with a straight face is beyond me.

Joe Reed is a freshman from Raleigh, N.C. Contact him at joreed@davidson.edu.

It is also possible that the Davidsonian’s endorsement will spark popular interest in the SGA and its policies, and that
students will be more critical of our government. Perhaps it will compel other campus publications to back candidates in the
future. Will they, however, ever match the influence and reach that the Davidsonian commands? It comes down to what we
want for our government, and what the future of our government will become. The Davidsonian’s endorsement is equivalent to the
New York Times, Washington Post, Wall Street Journal, Los Angeles Times, Boston Herald, CNN and Fox News all endorsing the
same candidate in a U.S. presidential race. Indeed, if the endorsements are to continue, and this columnist sincerely hopes they
do not, one hopes that the Davidsonian will tread lightly and consider the vast implications that a few words on
an editorial page may have.

Matt Hall is a junior history major from Bennington, Vt. Contact him at mthall@davidson.edu.
