THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2005

The danger of a liberal mind

“I’m not religious.” I have heard this a surprising amount at Davidson this year. Not that this is a radical
change from last year; the rejection of God and religion entirely or an explorative search for faith is not uncommon
among college students. I am simply struck by the eagerness of some people to tell me that they are not
believers. Wouldn’t you think this would be a source of uneasiness or shame rather than pride? Shouldn’t it be the
believers who readily step forth with testimony? Why are the non-believers so insistent on identification?

Maybe these “not religious” people wanted to acknowledge their lack of knowledge of religious doctrine. And granted, being “faithful” and
being “religious” can be quite different. Many people see religions as controlling, money-hungry institutions. There is certainly the chance that
those who are not “religious”—who do not identify with a particular sect or church—still practice a very active personal faith.
But from the tone of voice, usually careless or matter-of-fact, in which “religious” was generally uttered by those disowning the
concept, I gather all that religion-church-faith-God gunk was being wrapped up in a little bundle and lightly pitched into the
dumpster. Which is absolutely their right. I just hope that this was a thoughtful, careful decision and not one of
laziness.

Modern scholars would seem to agree. Oftentimes, the light rejection of God can have much larger implications. Dr. Brad Thompson,
BB&T Research Professor at Clemson University and Executive Director of the Clemson Capitalism Initiative, spoke on October 12 about “Our
Killing Schools: How America’s Schools Are Destroying the Minds and Souls of Our Children.” He highlighted the fact that the
school shootings of recent years were exactly that: school shootings. These warped boys did not commit the shootings at someone’s
house or at a weekend hangout, but always at school.

He feels that this points to gross flaws in America’s public school system. He attributed this failure, in part, to
the lack of moral structure provided by educators, who are more anxious to cultivate free thinking and a sense of
self-assurance. The lack of foundation and structure that strong morals and beliefs provide leaves children, and adults, unprepared to make
important decisions and deal with problems. This is why, when faced with the cruel taunts of their peers, juxtaposed against
a fragile self-confidence, the boys could justify their horrific acts of revenge, as they were left free to create their
own morality.

To be free-thinking and liberal, especially at a liberal arts school, is so socially expected in today’s world that we
feel narrow-minded and biased if we decide to devote ourselves entirely to one creed or perspective. Our great fear of
being seen as racist or sexist or prejudiced or anti-(fill in the blank) forces us to carefully construct our spoken
words so as not to offend anyone. Of course, we shouldn’t make sweeping generalizations about groups of people. Of course,
we should speak carefully and not forget all that women and minorities have struggled to achieve, and that they are
still struggling. Of course, we should be mindful of the powerful force of words. But our fear of offending others
has resulted, for some, in a refusal to adopt any solid set of beliefs.

It’s sad that our eagerness to be open to all kinds of differences and new ideas sometimes prevents us from
believing in anything. How tragic to live an amoeba-like existence floating freely, defenseless, without strong convictions and susceptible to the
next biggest wave that rolls through.

Carey Baxter is a sophomore from Monkton, Md. Contact her at cabaxter@davidson.edu

Word to the wise: do not be advised

I love freshmen; I used to be one. Davidson freshmen are, on the whole, intelligent, energetic, motivated, and fun. But
they don’t know everything. I mean really, who does? But the great thing about being a freshman is that you’re
allowed to not know everything; it is expected. Not only is it expected, it is accounted for by the college.
Hence the infinite number of offices, counselors, mentors, and various guiding powers that add to the freshmen experience. Don’t know
where the Belk computer lab is? Ask your hall counselor. Don’t know what party to go to? Ask your big
sibling. Don’t know what you want to be when you grow up? Ask Career Services. Don’t know how to put
on a condom? Ask the health advisors. Don’t know how to risk manage a knife fight? Well, Patterson Court is
still working on that.

But what about that oh-so-fundamental challenge faced by not only freshmen, but all of us here on campus: graduating. Davidson
is a liberal arts institution, and therefore it has extensive core requirements. This is to be expected, and those requirements
are pretty well laid-out for all to see and understand. However, things get a little more muddled when APs are
thrown into the mix. Little-known rules abound about what AP credits can count towards what core requirements. Did you know
that an entire section of Davidson’s website is dedicated to such rules and guidelines, including special cases where AP credits
are actually nullified by other classes? A lot of people don’t know this website exists, and hence know nothing about
these intricate rules that, while specific and oftentimes inapplicable, can have serious implications for strategic ways to get core requirements
out of the way.

Among those ignorant to the “rules of graduating” are, ironically, just those who should be most knowledgeable. Although these rather
obscure rules may not affect a lot of people specifically, they shouldn’t be undervalued or ignored. Freshmen coming in should
be made aware of these rules as soon as they start picking classes, so they can maximize the freedom...AP credit
can give them. If used correctly, AP credit can assure students take classes they are really passionate about in their
short four years here, without squandering time on core requirements they may not be interested in. Don’t know what AP
rules apply to you? Ask... and here is a problem. Because who do you ask? The initial response would seem
to be freshmen advisors. But the truth is, they are oftentimes as oblivious to the rules as the students are.
I don’t know what type of training is required, if any, to be a freshmen advisor, but in my experience
and in the experience of my friends, it is not adequate. Rules are misconstrued or ignored, Web Trees are inadequately
explained, and the whole system really seems like a waste of time. In theory, having a freshman advisor for each
student is a great idea; it only reinforces the welcome first-year students receive while bolstering their support system. However, if
everyone and anyone can be a freshman advisor, the role is self-defeating. Teachers at Davidson are just as busy as
students, if not more so. Their roles include teaching, researching, publishing, conferencing, and traveling, not to mention family life and
personal life. If freshman advisor is just one more role arbitrarily assigned to faculty, it is no wonder they are
ill-equipped to explain the nuances of credits and the Web Tree to randomly assigned freshman advisees. These staff members have
bigger things on their mind. If the system was reformed, however, to make freshman advising a more important role, complete
with better training, these advisors could be an excellent resource. Until this reform takes place, freshmen and all others be
warned: the world of the Web Tree and core requirements is dog-eat-dog. Tread carefully, check out http://www2.davidson.edu/academics/reg/acadreg_AP.asp, and don’t take
Physics 120 if you’re planning on using your AP Physics credit from high school. Halley Aelion is a sophomore from
Bowie, Md. Contact her at haaelion@davidson.edu.

GOP downfall creates Democratic hope

Harriet Miers’ decision to withdraw her name from nomination to replace Sandra Day O’Connor on the Supreme Court was a
reflection on many things. First and most obviously, it reflected on the very poor quality of President Bush’s nominee for
the highest court in the land. From the moment the nomination was announced, questions were raised by pundits at both
ends of the political spectrum as to what, aside from her sycophantic loyalty to the president, qualified Miers for the
bench. More recently, Miers reportedly had had a series of disastrous meetings with the senators who would have had to
vote on her confirmation. In addition, a questionnaire regarding her views on constitutional issues was returned to her by Judiciary
Committee Chairman Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) and Ranking Member Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), who asked her to redo the survey on grounds
of incompleteness. Getting an “incomplete” on a homework assignment is one thing, but on a survey submitted to the Senate
Judiciary Committee? In short, Miers had done nothing since the announcement of her nomination to alleviate widely-held concerns about her
qualifications for the job. Of course, a nominee for a particular position being grossly unqualified for that position has never
stopped President Bush before. Miers is certainly no less qualified for the Supreme Court than Michael Brown was to head
FEMA. That is precisely why the withdrawal of this nomination serves, perhaps more than anything else, as a clear reflection
on just how weak the White House is at this point in time. It’s hard to believe that she would
have withdrawn her name had the president asked her not to do so. The federal government’s embarrassingly poor response to
Hurricane Katrina, the still-mounting casualties in Iraq, and the ongoing investigation of leading White House officials have combined to bring
the president’s approval rating down to a dismal 39 percent in the latest Washington Post poll. More broadly, the indictment
of House Majority Leader Tom DeLay (R-Tx.) on charges of conspiracy and money laundering, coupled with the recent indictment of
I. Lewis Libby, Vice President Cheney’s chief of staff, for perjury and obstruction of justice and the investigation of Senate
Majority Leader Bill Frist for possible insider trading, raises the prospect of a Republican corruption trifecta—leaders in the House, Senate,
and White House all under criminal investigation and possibly indictment. All of these factors have created a situation where the
president simply cannot afford to spend the political capital it would have taken to push the Miers nomination through. Given
the apparent weakness of the White House and the Republican Party as a whole, many Democrats have been tempted to
simply sit back and let the opposition party self-destruct. To do so would be a huge mistake. Republican corruption and
incompetence have indeed combined to give the Democrats an excellent opportunity to make gains in the 2006 midterm elections and
take back the White House in 2008, but this opportunity is just that—an opportunity, not a guarantee. In order to
reverse the Republican surge in recent elections, Democrats will need to put together a coherent national agenda capable of taking
advantage of voters’ dissatisfaction with the current GOP leadership, an agenda comparable to Newt Gingrich’s famed Contract with America. They
should propose concrete steps to clean up corruption in Washington, as well as policy ideas designed to meet the needs
of working Americans in areas including health care and the minimum wage. While the details of such an agenda will
need to be fleshed out between now and the beginning of the 2006 election cycle, success in doing so could
allow Democrats to not only make gains in 2006 and 2008, but also put together a long-term electoral coalition of
the sort they have not had since the late 1960s. Joe Reed is a sophomore political science major from Raleigh,
N.C. Contact him at joreed@davidson.edu.
