THE DAVIDSONIAN

The mother of James Freeman ’09 was rushed to the hospital a week ago on Saturday afternoon due to an allergic reaction to the fertilizer the physical plant crew has been using on campus lawns. Loretta Freeman, age 49, went into anaphylactic shock during the a cappella and dance performance sometime between Androgyny’s third rap song and the Generals’ beat-boxing ’60s remix. After receiving epinephrine injections and being put on an artificial respirator in the ambulance, Mrs. Freeman recovered overnight in the Lake Norman Hospital. She was discharged Sunday evening and returned to her home in Winston-Salem.

“I’m just glad she’s okay,” says Freeman. “When she started coughing I thought she was choking on one of the whole box full of baked goods she picked up throughout the day at all those bake sales. Then she collapsed and stopped breathing entirely... I was really scared.” Mrs. Freeman, understandably, preferred to return home and rest without comment.

All the campus shares Freeman’s sentiment that what is most important is that his mother was not injured and is healthy now, but some are insisting that the entire situation could have been avoided if the Physical Plant had been more selective about its fertilizer. “Students have been complaining about the fertilizer since the plant crew started using it,” said Marilyn Porter ’07. “And now we know it not only smells offensive, but it is actually dangerous to people’s health. You’d think they might take that into account before using it.”

A psychology survey recently distributed to Davidson students shows that 91 percent of students dislike the smell of the fertilizer, and that 74 percent think the smell affects off-campus visitors’ impression of the college. One student commented, “Would you want to walk to class every day with a chicken $*&# smell waiting for you?”

Head Groundskeeper Albert Finley says he sees no reason that his crew should be condemned for the incident. “Is it the cook’s fault if someone allergic to coconut has a reaction when eating coconut cake? I feel for Mrs. Freeman, and I apologize to her for what happened, but it’s not fair to blame us for using fertilizer that had a negative effect on one person.”

Other groundskeepers mentioned that the alternatives presented to them were all fertilizers with less odor, but also with more risk of creating allergy problems. One of the groundskeepers, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that the Physical Plant’s official response is a cover-up for the real reason for the offensive fertilizer. “We like to pick out a really foul, stinky fertilizer. This one was selected because it smells like a combination of dead fish and the liquid at the bottom of a full garbage bag. We get used to the smell after a while, but it’s fun to watch people get the first whiff of it. You'll see groans, winces, sometimes kids will even pull a T-shirt over their nose.” The unnamed groundskeeper said that Finley is trying to cover up the scandal to protect himself and to ensure that the crew can continue to use overly foul-smelling fertilizer. “It’s a morale boost for the workers, a little pick-me-up during a long day of working outside. Pay attention and you will be able to see us high-fiving after a good grimace or a dry heave.”

The administration, meanwhile, has responded by offering air filters to any students, faculty, staff, or visitors who are concerned that they may be at risk of an allergic reaction. The Student Health Center carries a supply of these filters, which may be placed around the mouth and nose of the wearer with little discomfort, and RLO has started placing emergency...Filters on each residence hall. “We feel that as long as the situation presents a danger to anyone at all on campus, we need to offer protection from that danger. If we're going to have condoms available for students, we certainly need to have something that allows them to breathe safely,” says Vice President of the College Janet Wilkinson.

Under financial pressures, the college was recently forced to scratch their plans of much-needed renovations to the Richardson residence hall. The financial difficulty arose from a significant decrease in alumni giving, less tuition from the last two classes (which were intentionally limited in size), and the poor performance of the college’s long-held tobacco stocks. When it appeared that these renovations would have to be put off for yet another year, the Davidson chapter of Habitat for Humanity stepped in and volunteered to complete the renovations for the needy college. The announcement was made during halftime of the field hockey and lacrosse statue dedication game last week, in which the two 10-foot-tall bronze statues were dedicated in an extensive, hour-long pre-game ceremony.

Even though the volunteers have only been working on the dormitory for half a week now, improvement is starting to show. Roy Champlain ’08 is very happy with the improvements to his room already. “The volunteers from Habitat finally fixed the hole in the roof that, when it rained, used to leak water on my face while I slept,” he said. In addition to exterior repairs, the Habitat volunteers have also been willing to do some repair work on the inside of the buildings as well. “We haven't had a working air conditioner all year,” said Julie Wells ’08. “Fortunately, one of the Habitat folks knew how to repair air conditioning units. He even built one from scratch for our neighbors who just never had one installed.”

The volunteers themselves seem happy to help. “That dormitory, especially the basement, was in such poor condition,” said Jonathon Riley, a local businessman. “We really had to do something to fix it up. It’s our philosophy at Habitat for Humanity that no one should have to suffer through such poor living conditions.”

Not all students are happy with the ongoing renovations, though. Since all of the people working through Habitat are volunteers, their hours of work are early in the morning so that they can still make it to their regular jobs on time. Some volunteers are even Davidson students who have to make it to 8:30 a.m. classes. Therefore, a lot of the work is also done on Saturday mornings, which is very convenient for the volunteers since the interferences of classes and work are eliminated.

These early mornings are not quite as convenient, however, for some of the residents in the sophomore apartments. Christina Moore ’08 dislikes being awoken on Saturday mornings by the loud noise of the construction work. “After a long night out on the court I need much more than four or five hours of sleep,” said Moore, “which is all I can get when I hear people using buzz saws at 8 a.m. on Saturday morning. And constant hammering does wonders for a hangover, let me tell you.”

Geoff Williams ’08 also has a problem with the renovation process done by Habitat. “Every morning before they start working they wake you up and make you hold hands while saying some kind of prayer,” said Williams. “That’s got to be against some kind of college rule, somewhere. But at any rate, it’s annoying.”

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2005

Top 5 Worst Halloween Costumes

Last weekend was Halloween and, as usual, Davidson students were wearing a wide variety of festive costumes. Not all of them made the grade though. Here are the bottom feeders of this year’s Halloween parties.