. PERSPECTIVES THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2005

Staff Editorial

Saving Davidson?

In the focus on preparing “disciplined and creative minds for lives of leadership and service,” according to Davidson College’s Statement of Purpose, a great deal of attention is placed on the quality of the faculty-student interactions, the residence hall environment, character-building athletics, opportunities for service and leadership development, and vibrant religious life. Is that always enough?

Specifically, this college must come to grips with the role that the off-campus environment plays in creating the on-campus experience. An admissions viewbook will tout, justifiably, many benefits of Davidson’s locale: proximity to a fast-growing metropolitan city; the comforts of suburbia, a quick drive down I-77 in the lake’s communities; and a small Southern town—the kind of place where everyone knows everyone, and where they go to church, too. Unfortunately, that city is sprawling ever closer, that interstate is clogged with congestion that routinely spills over onto Main Street, and the small-town feel is increasingly endangered by growing populations.

The issue of growth is fraught with controversy. Landowners want to realize the paper increases in their lands’ worth; environmentalists want to preserve open and green space. College towns make a far better recruiting pitch—but what fair way is there to determine who does and who doesn’t get to live here, except private markets? If markets price out the poor from among us, will Davidson’s country club ethic be reinforced and its service ethic be diminished?

As we report this week, restricting housing supply to fight development increases the cost of living, potentially pricing starting professors out of the market. But if professors choose not to live in town—because of affordability alone—will that not reflect negatively on the quality of after-hours student-faculty interaction?

Years and years ago, the college used—perhaps sometimes abused—its tremendous influence to shape Davidson’s growth. Appropriately, it abandoned that goal to focus resources inward. Aside from tailored policies like the land-lease program and preserving the integrity of the Ecological Preserve, Davidson College has no standing policies vis-a-vis development in the town. When the college intervened in town affairs then, it was out of luxury. Now it might be time to return to that approach in part, out of necessity, to preserve the Davidson experience. We recognize that the Davidson experience of 40 years ago meant rural, not college town, and daily Presbyterian chapel, not a Jewish Student Union. The Davidson experience does change—but how it changes is worth a conversation.

Growth is necessary and important, but if done too fast it can be difficult to channel, outpacing physical or social infrastructure. Only the college has the institutional resources and longevity to tackle this problem.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel

Managing Editor
Mike Giglio

News Editors
Kate Gillespie, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia

Perspectives Editors
Halley Aelion & Matt Bandyk

Arts & Living Editors
Jarrod Blue & Reid Wildman

Yow! Editors
Bobby Kenner & Jeff Yeakel

Sports Editors
Monica Jamouneau & Pierce Trumbo

Photography Editor
Jessica Hodge

Advertising Managers
Sarah Bogue & Janielle Milanes

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Runaway growth threatens town

As an alum and resident of Davidson, I wish to affirm the concerns about developers and new developments expressed by Sam Spencer IV in his October 5 column, “Mini-Birkdales to Change Community.” Like Sam, “perhaps I’m just too old-fashioned to savor the fruits of progress” brought on by the runaway growth ethic choking this region. By the time Sam graduates, there will be two new “mini-Birkdales” directly impacting Davidson—a heavily commercial one at exit 30 and in the northeastern edge of Cornelius. The Davidson outlet at South Street for this high-density residential/commercial complex will be ready well before Cornelius’ own connection—even though it is being built there! Whose interests are being served? Of course, it will add to the heavy traffic that fills Main Street and will exert even greater pressure on the Town Board to “gut” old Davidson by connecting roads and tearing down buildings. The town as we know it may very well disappear.

Students of Davidson, ask yourselves: do you want to return in the future to a small college town that you know? Do you want your children to be able to see the college town you remembered? Do you want parents and prospective students to choose this unique place for four years of their lives? Or do you want to see it swallowed up by largely uncontrolled Charlotte metropolitan sprawl? Wake up and fight for the local quality of life that is at risk!

William E. Jackson Jr. ’57

Swim team is not to be ignored

I am a member of the swim team here at Davidson and supporter of all the Division I athletics we have to offer at our school. On behalf of the Men’s and Women’s Swimming and Diving team, I would like to pass on this complaint. Reading the most recent issue of The Davidsonian (10/19), I noticed something quite disappointing. On page 12 in the sports section, you include a list of the results of athletic events in the “Week in Review” and provide a schedule of the upcoming sports events in “The Week Ahead.” I was surprised to find that you failed to mention the results of the two Swimming and Diving meets that we had the previous...weekend against ourselves in the annual Red and Black meet, and against a strong Emory team. Even more surprising was the fact you failed to include two swim meets that we had over parents weekend. Our swim meet schedule has been available online for a couple of months now, and I do not understand why it is that these simple facts could not have been included along with the results and schedules of my fellow athletes. The entire team is disappointed and feels as though this is an easily avoidable injustice. I regret having to be so harsh about this situation, but as any athlete at Davidson, we work just as hard in and out of the classroom and feel we deserve the same respect, credit, and recognition as the other athletics.

Andrew Edelman ’07

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor. Please e-mail submissions of less than 250 words to davidsonian@davidson.edu by Sunday night. We reserve the right to edit for content, brevity, and grammar.

---

Defy the P.C. gods and thank America

You know, I’m insensitive. I make crude puns, I half-jokingly tout the benefits of dictatorships, I have claimed to be God from time to time, and I even go so far as to support a number of right-wing positions. If somewhere there’s somebody who takes a thing seriously, I have probably disrespected it.

Except for two things. I find myself incapable of ridiculing two things: the national flag, and the national anthem. I can stand nothing less than disrespect for my nation from citizens within it. It seems almost recommended that we stand ever ready to degrade American principles, priorities, and people. Folks, diversity does not mean exclusion of home field values and beliefs. No law but that of the P.C. gods saith that a Helen Keller joke is less acceptable than burning an American flag.

The types of people who disrespect the Star-Spangled Banner tend to have their reasons: about taxes, about special interests in politics, about the third world which has less because the people with the American flag have more. My typical redneck, chest-thumping, imperious American response: “You don’t like it? Move to Somalia.” If these self-righteous wish-I-weren’t-Americans were willing to stand by their criticisms of the U.S., they would gladly leave the country. By even residing here, a person enjoys valuable resources unavailable to the majority of the world’s population. The most important of these is the resource of protection. The nation has suffered precisely two attacks on American soil since 1865. For 140 years, only the bombing of Pearl Harbor and the attack on the World Trade Towers have claimed American lives at home. Every year we, as a nation, mourn the deaths of so few Americans. I believe we do well to remember the lives lost. But what would happen if the French decided to have a day of mourning for every day they suffered foreign attacks on their own soil, even in the last century alone? What about the Germans? The Russians? And let me not forget Poland.

Now, to ask it with less tongue in my cheek, let me rephrase the question. What would a French citizen in 1942 have said if you offered him a government that could guarantee his freedom, safety, and peace of mind? Whatever term you use to describe the American condition, it is a given that this country has granted its citizens more than any country in the world has done for any other citizens. And before we debate specific political issues, let’s look at the basis of government. Let’s consider the foundation and final word in our government—the Constitution. There is a reason the First Amendment comes first. And just so you know, regarding guaranteed freedom of speech and the press, the score stands America 1, World 0.

I could get on a soapbox and lecture you about the responsibility that you have to give back to those less fortunate than us. But the truth is, you have no such responsibility. I could also tell you that you have no right to disparage the nation that has kept you safe in your fledgling lives and will continue to do so. But the truth is, you have just such a right. You have those opportunities, and you have those freedoms. That’s a hell of a lot more than many of the world’s peoples have.

And these values have been brought to you by the letters U, S, and A. Davidson strives to involve its students in service, giving back to the less fortunate, and we seem to heed that encouragement rather well. My question is why we should not simultaneously appreciate the very reason that we are so fortunate. I ask that we remember encouragement from an earlier source: our parents. Mine taught me to write thank you notes to people who help me or give me something if I cannot thank them in person. Whatever your opinions of their respective politics, I suggest that Reagan, Bush, Clinton, and Bush—the presidents within our lifetimes—deserve thank you notes from all of us, whom they have kept safe.

Nathan Bradshaw is a sophomore English major from Swannanoa, N.C. Contact him at eslca@davidson.edu.