8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

GIRLFRIEND FLAUNTED — Student without Cat Card still waiting to be let into Sentelle. See Page 5

Math Club, Davidson Outdoors merge; form CoHo. See Page 6

Cash used to pay at Union Café. Commons salad bar sneezed in. See Page 9

Spring is in the air, and at Davidson College that can mean only one thing: it is time to re-exhume that rotting corpse of liability known as fraternity hazing. This year, however, a few things are different around the court, as the PCC has resolved to finally tackle the time-honored tradition of character building through degradation and humiliation.

According to PCC Faculty Advisor Patricia Wilson, “The Davidson community is ready to finally crack down on hazing in fraternity pledging. Too long have we let hazing activities, which are clearly illegal and harmful, persist. I have already warned the fraternities that we are going to be extra vigilant this year. There will be very harsh punishments for any fraternity caught hazing its freshmen.”

The crackdown comes two years after the school made national news with hazing, when a group of Kappa Sigma pledges were caught clubbing a goose to death.

Visiting professors complain of poor treatment

Several visiting professors joined forces last week to sign a petition calling for better living and working conditions at Davidson. The professors complained of extremely poor treatment at the College, including small offices, lack of access to the library and coffee machines, and no running water in the college-provided housing.

A visiting biology professor, Dr. James Frank, voiced his complaints about the lack of running water at his house on Thompson Street. “All I want is to be able to shower in my own home, and maybe even to flush the toilet. I’m tired of having to use the bathroom on the third floor of the Union. Also, I don’t like having to shower in the emergency shower in a biology lab while looking over my shoulder for students.”

Moreover, some students have reported seeing visiting professors coming into the fitness center just to shower. Curtis Smith, manager of the fitness center, has seen visiting professors in the locker room very often. “Yeah, they started leaving their toiletries on the counter. Before, people started to complain about the clutter. But now everyone is kind of used to it.”

While the availability of running water for visiting professors has remained a problem, the college claims that it is not a priority for them. Remarked Dean of Faculty Peter Wilkertson, “Simply put, installing running water in the houses for the visiting professors is not a priority for the College at the present time. The houses, which the College graciously provides to visiting professors, are not up for renovation for another ten years. While we do regret any inconvenience experienced by the residents, we have limited resources, and have to focus our attention on more pressing issues such as upkeep of Alumni field, and making sure that the turf is cleaned on the Field Hockey field. Plus, what are the visiting professors going to do? Quit? A Ph.D. in English and two dollars will get you a cup of coffee at the Union Café.”

Nancy Welsh, a visiting professor of mathematics, has a different complaint. She complained of tiny offices for the visiting professors in Chambers. “I understand I’m a visiting professor, but I want to be able to open my office door without banging into my desk,” Welsh complained, “I shouldn’t even call it my office, because after all, it’s just a janitorial closet. I don’t mind the custodians coming into my office at all. They’re very cordial and pleasant. I just get headaches from the smell of ammonia in the floor cleaner stored under my desk.”

Some visiting professors do not even have offices. Said Umberto Michelangelo, visiting professor of history, “It would be fine for me to have a very small office. But, I do not have any office. Instead, I have to work on my studies and hold office hours in the lounge on the first floor of Belk Dormitory. Plus, since they did not give me a working Cat Card, I have to sit outside and wait for a student to let me in.”

“And,” Michelangelo continued, “they also make it hard to do research, because visiting professors do not get borrowing privileges at the library.”

Other visiting professors claim that while the official treatment by the school is substandard, their treatment at the hands of other professors is truly upsetting. Said Terrence Pendleton, visiting professor of economics, “The other professors don’t give us the time of day. They never say hello when they pass us in the hall, and they call us demeaning nicknames behind our backs, like ‘scrubs.’ It’s just a bunch of little stuff, like how when they talk to students, they refer to me as ‘Visiting Professor Pendleton.’ They always need to add the ‘visiting,’ just to rub it in. It’s not so bad in the Economics Department, but I know in the History Department, the professors don’t let the visiting professors get coffee from the department coffee machine.” He continued, “Plus, the...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Non-visiting professors just get more respect, even junior ones. I just know that if I were the Wallace Abraham Professor of Economics, then Dr. Verawicz in the English department would be all over me, instead of that schlub, Dr. Wilson.”

February 9, 2005

Davidson to crack down on hazing death. Since then, the administration has been pressuring fraternities to clean up their act, and end all hazing. The school plans on being extra strict, especially in light of the upcoming SACS reaccreditation. Many fraternity members, however, are none too pleased at the machinations of the school’s impenetrably complex social legislative body. Said Sigma Alpha Epsilon member Mike Evans ’06, “Hazing is just as natural as drinking. How the hell are we supposed to build character in these kids otherwise?” Evans continued, “There are several ways to relax the hazing while still getting across its meaning. For example, pledges only need to drink a number of beers equal to their weight in kilograms, not pounds. Similarly, during the prostitute pledge event, much less is expected of the pledges, which, in addition, should also help to stem our exorbitant insurance costs. Plus, we completely scrapped the whole Crystal Meth race which was widely agreed upon to be fairly dangerous, even though I thought that it was a highlight of my pledging experience.”

Others have been in favor of the administration’s actions against hazing. Remarked former Kappa Alpha member Blake Kiel ’05, “I’m happy the school is taking a greater interest in the depraved actions of renegade fraternity members. Where was that rule against ‘forcing a pledge to perform an action contrary to his moral values’ when I was required to pray to Satan every night before bed?” But, Kiel seems to be in the minority on this issue. As one angry sophomore exclaimed, “I'll be damned if they take away my hazing rights. I spent six weeks performing the most humiliating and terrible acts, so that when I was an upperclassman, I could force the pledges to do even worse stuff. But, now that’s gone. It looks like I urinated on all those stray cats for nothing.”

Sigma Phi Epsilon brother Peter Danilovich ’05 sees the harsher punishments as unnecessary. “It’s not like pledging is that bad. I mean, the worst thing I had to do was drink a bucket of goat blood. And, most things were mundane, like having to brush some of the seniors’ teeth at 4:30 every morning. But, as I always say, pledging was the most fun that I never want to have again!”

Most current pledges have already felt the brunt of the crackdown. Said Pi Kappa Alpha pledge Drew “Goat” Woodwright ’08, “Pledging started off great. I was one of the distinguished few to have my hand cut off the first week. Now with these newer sanctions one of my very own pledge brothers got off with just losing a finger. He apologized for his apparent lesser punishment, but I apologized to him because he would never feel like a complete brother. At least he made them cut off his thumb; hopefully that'll impress the brothers.”

The Davidsonian

Professor’s explicit e-mail address leaves students uncomfortable

Several first-year psychology students have expressed concerns about Visiting Professor of Psychology Dr. Pamela Griegson this semester. Griegson, a native of Omaha, Nebraska, with a Ph.D. in psychology from Dartmouth, came to Davidson for a semester to cover the freshman classes of Assistant Professor Carolyn Wormer, who is on sabbatical this semester. She teaches two of the four Psychology 101 sections this semester, along with Psychology 213, Studies in Gender Relations. The students have some discomfort regarding Griegson’s personal e-mail address, dirtygal69@aol.com. “One of the benefits of being at a small college is that your professors usually feel comfortable giving you their home phone number, address, and e-mail for contact,” says Jim Chadwick ‘08. “But this one was more than a little weird.”

“I mean, I’m all for people having a sense of humor and a private life,” explained Anne Calhoun ’08, “but I feel kind of uncomfortable knowing that my psych professor has an e-mail address that’s very explicit. I mean, she’s not even particularly good looking, so I definitely don’t want to know what she does in her spare time.” Classmate Janet Boreau agreed: “If it were a girl on my hall, I’d think it was funny. With a professor, it’s just weird. I just hope that her private life won’t get in the way of her professional duties.”

Some students disagree and side with Griegson. Vince Weller ’08, said “Dude, I’m so tired of teachers being uptight prudes. If I say that I got screwed this weekend with my German professor in earshot, she gives me a dirty look. It’s nice to have one with a sense of humor and that’s sexually liberated who Davidson students can relate to.”

Griegson herself does not understand why it would make students any more uncomfortable than other e-mail addresses. “What's dirty or provocative is in the eye of the beholder. Freud would probably say that anyone who finds my e-mail address sexual has a dirty mind. For all you know, I’m a gardener who was born in 1969.”

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Woof Woof:
- Cameron Hardesty
- Nathan “Nate Dawg” Bradshaw
- Anderson Heston
- Matthew Monson
- Jeremy Bloxson

Editor: Brendan Parets

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editor at brparets@davidson.edu

Note: If you haven't been living in a cave for the past year, then you should know that the Yowl! is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.