2: THE DAVIDSONIAN

Rushdie, continued from page 1.

Iran’s Ayatollah Khomeini condemned Rushdie to death in a fatwa, forcing Rushdie under the protection of the British government and
police. His security still threatened, all students, faculty, staff, and guests were asked to leave their personal belongings, such as
purses and backpacks, outside of the Duke Family Performance Hall.

Rushdie barely mentioned the threats placed on his life, though when responding to a question he alluded to the fatwa,
saying, “I don’t think persecution is good for writers. I think it is bad for writers, and should be discouraged.”
Instead, he focused heavily on literature: his own and that of others. “He reminded me to read,” said Becky Nolin
’06.

On the topic of modern literature, he took issue with two trends. He bashed Dan Brown’s “The Da Vinci Code”
extensively, saying simply, “The book is so bad ... It makes bad books look good. Many [of you] have probably
read this book. Shame on you.”

by Benjamin Vincent ’05, in which Rushdie denounced modern literary criticism and noted the subdued applause that followed as proof
he had “[lost] friends” in the literary audience.

Rushdie was born in Bombay, India in 1947 to Muslim parents. He attended King’s College, Cambridge, and graduated with a
B.A. in History in 1968. Following his graduation from Cambridge, Rushdie lived in London and attempted to pursue a career
in writing. Rushdie’s father disapproved of this choice, and felt that writing did not make sensible use of his Cambridge
education. “Business was worthwhile, industry was worthwhile, banking was worthwhile, writing was just a hobby,” Rushdie said.

Rushdie noted that he did not immediately prove his father wrong and criticized his own early failed attempts at writing.
“Before I wrote anything worth reading, I wrote four novels and a television screenplay,” he said. In 1975, however, Rushdie
published his first novel, “Grimus,” while also working as an actor and advertising copywriter. Following the publication of “Grimus,” he
was offered a full-time, high-paying advertising job in London. Rushdie resisted and became a full-time writer instead.

He published his second novel, the Booker Prize-winning “Midnight’s Children,” in 1981. The novel is set in India and details
important events in India’s history through the life of pickle factory worker, Saleem Sinai. The Booker is a British award
equivalent in prestige to the Pulitzer Prize. Rushdie drew on the racism he experienced as an Indian student at Rugby
Boys’ School in England while writing “Midnight’s Children.” He described his early encounters with racism as “lessons in otherness” that
allowed him to write “an Indian book, not an English book about India.”

Rushdie is the author of more than 15 books. In 2002, he was elected to the Board of American PEN,
an organization that promotes free expression and the advancement of literature.

The Conarroe Lecture Series is named in honor of Joel Conarroe, who graduated from Davidson in 1956 and went on
to contribute to the professional literary community. He served as the chair of the English department and dean of Arts
and Sciences at the University of Pennsylvania. The Conarroe Lecture Series was endowed in 2002 through an anonymous gift and
hopes to “enhance the literary experience of students at Davidson.” In 2003, Joyce Carol Oates delivered the inaugural Conarroe Lecture,
and in 2004, Michael Cunningham delivered it.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2005

In his own words “That's the thing about people'sbeginnings, you never know how their stories are going to turn out.”
“Without ambiguity, the art of the novel ceases to exist.” “We are all story-telling animals.” “If we are smart and
know what is good for us, when we see the dawn breaking, we will fall quiet discreetly.”

Campus Police Blotter

1/24 Vail Commons Larceny
Having left her purse near the south entrance of Vail Commons, student returned to find it gone. Contents of bag
included credit cards, debit cards, driver’s license, class notes, and cash. Value of purse and contents estimated at $125.

1/25 Vail Commons Larceny
Student returned from her meal at Commons to find her bag, which she had left at the top of the
stairs, missing. Value of purse and contents estimated at $20.

Peter Fields of Franklin & Marshall College will speak on “Structure and Function in Enzyme Adaptation to Extreme Cold: Tales
from Antarctic Fishes” on February 23 at 4:30 p.m. in Room G-10 of Martin Chemical Laboratory.

1/26 Fire Alarm Patterson Court
Officers were informed that a fire alarm had been activated in SAE House. Inside, they found no fire, but determined
the cause to be cigarette smoke in the restroom.

Souper Bowl
Local restaurants will participate in a soup cook-off on February 5 from 12-2 p.m. in the Union Atrium. The event
also features performances by the Generals, Delilahs, and Kate Minogue. Student tickets are $6 in advance or $8 at the
door, adult tickets are $10/$12, and children’s tickets are $3/$5. Proceeds benefit HAMMERS, an organization that will provide emergency repairs
to low-income homeowners in the area. For tickets, call Rosie Molinary at (704) 894-2298.

1/28 Possible Break-In Patterson Court
Student called officer, stating that someone was breaking car windows with a sledgehammer. Upon reporting to the scene, police discovered
that it was only a CoHo member tearing down the platform behind CoHo.

Red and Black Ball
1/29 Patterson Court
Warner Hall’s Red and Black Ball will be on February 5 at 8 p.m. in Chambers Gallery. All proceeds will
be donated to the Metrolina AIDS Project and The Mapendo of Sudan. Tickets are $10 for students and $30 for
the public, and they cannot be purchased at the door. Email lidecastrique@davidson.edu for information.

Medical Emergency
Officers responded to a call stating that someone had fallen at a party at SAE House. Officers found student lying
on the floor with lacerations above his right eye and on his bottom lip. Student was transported to Lake Norman
Regional Hospital for further treatment.

Profs On God
1/30 Concord Road
Associate Professor of Religion Anne Wills will speak on February 8 from 6-8 p.m. in the Carnegie Guest House.

Alcohol Violation
Student attempted to enter driver’s seat of his car while holding a beer bottle. He was spotted by police and
cited with underage possession.

1/30 Watts Dormitory Alcohol Violation
Officer responded to call from Watts and found a student passed out in the men’s bathroom. Student was sent to
Lake Norman Regional Hospital for alcohol poisoning.

1/31 Little Dormitory Medical Emergency
Police received a call stating that a student had found her roommate passed out on the floor of their dorm
room. Student refused medical attention.

1/31 Tomlinson Dormitory Alcohol Violation
Upon responding to a noise complaint in Tomlinson, police found a group of students in a room with opened beer
cans. Students were forced to pour out the beer and were advised to turn their music down.
