10 PERSPECTIVES THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2005

Staff Editorial

Remembering a newspaper man

“It is a newspaper’s duty to print the news and raise hell.” This quotation by former Chicago Times owner and editor William Storey became a permanent addition to our wall two years ago and has been our unofficial motto ever since. It is a reminder that we have many responsibilities as journalists, primary of which is not to accept anything at face value.

Professor Chuck Hauser’s short tenure at Davidson left a lasting impression on this publication and showed us that the newspaper’s responsibility does not stop at Storey’s witticism. Professor Hauser brought a lifetime of experience and commitment to the field of journalism. In his 16 years at the Providence (R.I.) Journal-Bulletin, he raised his fair share of hell. He exposed a state Supreme Court justice for Mafia ties, and he stood in contempt of court for defending his right to print the news.

As Batten professor on campus this semester, Hauser helped students make abstract ethical arguments personal. He showed his students that journalism is not a rigid series of rules, but judgment call after judgment call based on sound logic and discussion. His advice might have been intended for students when, in a few years, they might be budding young journalists in the real world, but we found it immediately applicable at The Davidsonian. When this paper debated breaking with its tradition to endorse a candidate for SGA President, Professor Hauser supported our right to do it, even if it ruffled some feathers. He believed the process could involve more students, fit our role as a newspaper, and better serve the College, and in doing so, reminded us of the sensitivities involved in community reporting.

Each week, Professor Hauser would bleed red ink across our broadsheet, staying after class to talk about ways we could improve our paper’s look and content. Listening to him, for a moment we could believe that The Davidsonian was more than a small college weekly, but something professional. He legitimized us not as student journalists, but as journalists. And he held us to those same standards.

Professor Hauser was a crucial influence in inspiring and developing the forthcoming Code of Ethics for The Davidsonian, which will be published next week. Expecting Professor Hauser’s time at Davidson to be only a semester, and not tragically shorter, we set out to put on paper the lessons learned and wisdom given, so that next semester and in the ones that follow, his experience would still influence future editors. Professor Hauser called things as they were, unbiased by the institutional perspectives of faculty, administration, or students, unlike anyone else on campus. He pushed us “to print the news and raise hell,” in an ethical and socially responsible way. Future editorial boards will miss the opportunity of having Professor Hauser as counselor and instigator, as only a true newspaperman could be.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX LIBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel

Managing Editor
Mike Giglio

News Editors
Liz Barry, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia

Perspectives Editor
Matt Bandyk

Arts & Living Editors
Elizabeth Burkhead & Sara Sams

Yowl Editor
Brendan Parets

Sports Editors
Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrory

Photography Editor
Dorsett Clark

Business Manager
Nick Horton

Advertising & Circulation Managers
Page Persons & Janelle Milanes

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Belk is passive about Christianity

I can only express regret and mild surprise regarding Roland Foss’ letter in last week’s Davidsonian and Mr. Belk’s decision to remove himself from the Board of Trustees. The contention that an all-Christian board would best serve the needs of Davidson College seems at best ludicrous and at worst sheer bigotry. In my mind, Mr. Belk’s decision arose from a distinction between two primary approaches to Christianity: the active and the passive. While the Board’s guidelines define activeness and passivity according to church membership, I elect to define these categories through simple behavior. The active Christian is a person who actively puts his Christian beliefs into force, not by excluding those who are different but by exercising the central Christian values of tolerance and love. Turning a blind eye to the cultures of others is no longer an acceptable practice. The decision to open the Board to non-Christian or “non-active” Christian faiths is not, as Mr. Foss terms it, a “sacrifice [of] stability, tradition, and intellectual fortitude” aimed at getting recognition from some unnamed outside observer. Rather, it is a commendable step in the direction of equality that history will look upon with favor. Foss’ contention that the move will hurt fundraising superficially implies that there can be a material value placed upon respect for our fellow man. Mr. Belk’s concept of Christianity precludes any possibility that perhaps those of other faiths might be equally capable of serving Davidson College; he effectively closes the door to the idea that perhaps a more representative perspective could give this institution the infusion of diversity and active, forward thinking that it severely lacks atPresent. I can’t think of anything more ~ Alumnus supports trustee requirement change and new professorship

As a Davidson alum, and one-time professor at the college who strongly favored the hiring of faculty not of the Christian faith, I both support the inclusion of non-Christians on the board of trustees AND the establishment of an endowed chair in Reformed Theology in the religion department. I agree with President Bobby Vagt, both in making changes that look to the future and in reaffirming the essence of past conviction. It is now up to the trustees and the administration to give concrete meaning to the Reform tradition at my alma mater.

The passive Christian stubbornly clings to his own beliefs, refusing to acknowledge that we live in a world in which The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor. Please e-mail submissions of less than 250 words to davidsonian@davidson.edu. We reserve the right to edit for content, brevity, and grammar.

Burdensome changes to alcohol policy
By BILL SOMMERS

The Davidsonian is published weekly by the students of Davidson College. One copy per Please address all to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. Phone (704) 894-2148. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00 per year. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Guest Columnist

On every college campus, students are going to drink alcohol, whether they are 21 or not. With this in mind, I will review the recommendations concerning alcohol policy given to the College Campus on Religious Life by the Alcohol and Drug Policy Review Task Force. The college’s concern about drinking on campus is a valid one, since the school shoulders the financial liability for it. For this reason, the recommendations by the committee look to reduce the liability of the school through more effective risk management.

The recommendation to CCRL on a new Risk Management Policy reads, “The Task Force recommends that rules for risk management of parties be based on attendance rather than party type. Organizations should be required to have a sober student Risk Manager in place when party attendance reaches 30 people. An additional sober student Risk Manager, student ID Checker, and student bartender should be put in place when the party reaches 60 attendees, and a police officer should be required for parties of 80 or more students.”

“These changes ... will immensely increase the fixed cost of having a social event.”

The effect of these changes on Patterson Court organizations is twofold. First, this will immensely increase the fixed cost of having a social event. For most houses, a closed function currently requires one risk manager. If these recommendations are approved, the school would now require two risk managers, a police officer, a bartender, and an ID checker. This would magnify the fixed cost of this type of function by a factor of at least six. This increased cost for organizations will encourage social functions to be moved off campus, a dangerous proposition.

Second, these changes throw off the current party designations of impromptu, closed functions, open parties, and members-only functions. Impromptu social functions are spontaneous and hardly ever have more than 80 people. The current recommendations will force Patterson Court organizations to plan these functions in advance. So, when an organization wants to have a spontaneous function, they will have it off campus or decide not to have it.

The policy review states, “The current risk management policies are extremely complex, with different rules applying to different categories of parties. The Patterson Court Judicial Board frequently hears testimony that groups or social chairs did not understand the risk management requirements.” Should an organization decide to throw a spontaneous function on campus, these new changes make the rules much more complex. Attendance numbers would need to be counted throughout the night in order to be in compliance with this new policy. In effect, social chairs now would have to guess the attendance of a function days in advance and decide whether to hire the necessary risk managers, bartenders, and ID checkers. If the social chair guesses wrong, they might have to shut down a party once it hits 60 people or waste $150 on a bartender, risk manager, and ID checker.

What should the school be doing now, though? I call on President Vagt to reject this specific recommendation, whether or not it has been modified by CCRL. Instead, there should be a panel for a more transparent discussion about the issue of alcohol use on campus. This panel should attempt to balance concerns over student safety with the school’s financial liability.

Bill Sommers is a sophomore history major from Houston. Contact him at bisommers@davidson.edu.