THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Tsunami relief deadline extended to reach 95 percent participation

By EMILY KOTA
Staff Writer

On Thursday, members of SGA continued the discussion on the tsunami relief effort and the proposal to collaborate with the town of Davidson. Other business included discussion of freshman programs, the upcoming Category II elections, increased attendance at athletic events, the pre-law society’s presentation of a revised constitution, and the future of April at the Lake.

The deadline for the 95 percent student participation goal for tsunami relief has been pushed back. If the goal is met, President Vagt will match the amount of money raised. In an effort to increase participation, donation buckets will be placed in various locations around campus, such as the library and the Union. Other suggestions included putting buckets in each of the houses on Patterson Court and distributing them to hall counselors and coaches, because athletes comprise 25 percent of the student body. The goal is to “increase the number and type of students who haven’t yet had a chance to give,” said Katherine Swain ’06. Students will be bound by the honor code to record their name when they donate.

The town of Davidson hopes to coordinate its tsunami relief efforts with the college. Andrew Leventhal represented the town and the goal to “tie the communal aspect of Davidson into efforts of fundraising.” Project Shelter, which will provide UN-sanctioned tents for victims of the tragedy, was created to address this interest. The town’s goal is to purchase one tent for every 10 homes in Davidson, resulting in approximately 250 tents. Donations will be sent through AmeriCare. The secular organization was chosen due to the possible conflict of interest between a faith-based organization and the town’s involvement. The town is interested in working with the college to include the whole community in the relief effort, resulting in more concentrated and improved aid. They have made postcards, describing the plan and goal of efforts, to distribute to mailboxes in town and on campus. The town also offered to provide as many donation canisters as needed. Some senators expressed concern about students thinking that they were being asked to contribute to two separate causes. Despite the possibility of confusion between college and town efforts, the SGA moved to combine student and town donations, all going towards one cause.

Scrutiny of freshman programs was also addressed. “Re-evaluation was due for the orientation program especially,” said Francois Trappey ’06, who has been discussing the matter with Dean Bray-Merrill. Suggestions for orientation included teaching the college’s fight song, improving the community service portion, and trying to alleviate repetition. Plans to review surveys from the current freshman class regarding orientation are underway. The idea to have another survey, further removed from the time of orientation, was also offered.

The Category II elections will begin on Monday, February 14. For those interested in running, sign-ups will continue through Friday, February 4. A required meeting for all candidates will be held on Monday, February 7. Various positions are open and will be posted on The Crier.

The PCC/SGA challenge to boost attendance at basketball games has resulted in tight competition between most of the houses on the Court.The female and male houses with the most points will each receive a prize of $550. Lindley Swartz ’05 represented the pre-law society, presenting a revised constitution. She explained that the existing constitution was outdated. The new constitution was approved. Students can look forward to April at the Lake, as plans are underway for the program again this year. The program will be discussed at next week’s meeting.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2005

Long distance phone service becoming financial burden
Year's losses from provider estimated to total $10,000
By KATIE PFEIFFER
Staff Writer

The college is currently considering a change in the long distance phone services that it offers to students. While providing long distance for students used to generate surpluses, it has now become a financial burden that cannot hope to recover costs. College administrators are still considering whether or not to withdraw long distance service for students because they want to determine if it will create an undue burden for any students.

With each consecutive year, the school has seen an increase in the number of cell phones on campus. If in the future students must rely solely on their cell phones for long distance calling or on calling cards, the college suggests that it will represent little change for students. “I prefer to use my cell phone or a calling card just because I don’t know what the rates are like. I don’t know which way is more cost-effective,” said Nia Pleasants ’06.

The number of students who use the provided service has decreased, which has increased the price per student to help compensate for the loss of numbers. Long distance charges still do not come near to covering the costs. As the prices have gotten higher, more and more students have chosen not to use college long distance services.

Karen Goldstein, Vice President for Business and Finance, agrees that offering long distance services seems at this point to be more burdensome upon the college's resources than it is beneficial to the students. Goldstein described the Davidson College telephone service as one that should “use the latest technologies, make service available, and at an appropriate price,” and, of course, one that keeps students’ best interests in mind.

A point of consideration that has surfaced has been to consider who the college would be hurting if it were to cancel long distance services. Whereas most students have their own means of making phone calls, there are certainly those who still rely upon the Davidson switchboard for long distance communication. The nature of the losses, however, estimated to be about $10,000 this school year, is such that it entreats students to rise to a new level of self-sufficiency in order to see this money returned to the school for its other needs.

Goldstein plans future polling of the student body, as well as discussion with SGA members, as possible ways to reach out to students to receive meaningful feedback on this issue. Additional plans undergoing consideration include making phone cards available for purchase at the Davidson bookstore. The college hopes to come to a decision this spring and announce its intentions for the Fall 2005 semester.

Photographers wanted