4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

OCF, from page 1

Father Steve Dalber and Jason Houck, the head priest and youth minister at St. Nektarios Greek Orthodox Church in Charlotte,
currently meet with the seven Orthodox students and their friends about twice a month. Three groups represent Davidson's religious minorities,
which comprise about four percent of the student population: the Jewish Student Union (two percent), Muslim Student Association, and Interfaith.
If there was interest among students and faculty, they would plan an event to educate others about Eastern Orthodox Christian
beliefs and practices. The students usually attend weekly services at St. Luke Greek Orthodox Church in Mooresville.

Pappas began seriously pursuing an OCF chapter at Davidson after conversations with the President of the National OCF, his sister’s
fiancé. He missed the familiar religious influence during his first year here. “I especially wanted to have the special religious
aspect of my life here at Davidson that was so important back home,” Pappas said. Davidson’s chapter of the OCF
is one of about 180 chapters nationwide. Houck is planning OCF chapters in the Research Triangle, specifically at UNC Chapel
Hill. “Students from Duke University and N.C. State will also be invited to the meetings at Chapel Hill,” Houck said.

The OCF is a part of the Religious Life Council (RLC) led by College Chaplain Rob Spach. The RLC provides
a monthly forum for the 12 religious student organizations, their student representatives, and campus ministers to discuss religious events and
issues. The RLC also creates a calendar of important religious holidays for the faiths represented at Davidson and encourages professors
and organizations to access it through the Chaplain’s Office webpage before planning major assignments or events. Last fall, the RLC
issued a statement of disapproval for the scheduling of Homecoming weekend on the Jewish High Holiday of Yom Kippur.

In addition to the nine Christian organizations, three groups represent Davidson’s religious minorities, which comprise about four percent of the
student population: the Jewish Student Union (two percent), Muslim Student Association, and Interfaith. The Catholic Campus Ministry will organize the
second annual Religious Life Council Kickball Tournament this spring to foster fellowship and fun between the 12 student organizations and
to raise money for a common cause.

Asian Awareness

Need a break? Play fun games like Chinese Checkers and DDR

Asian Awareness Week Schedule

Princess Mononoke
Watch one of Roger Ebert’s Top 10 Films
October 19, 5:30-7:30 p.m. in Hance Auditorium

Game Night
October 20, 7-9 p.m. in the 900 Room of the Union

The Asian Cultural Awareness Association (ACAA) kicked off Asian Awareness Week with a lecture Monday and performances last night.

Trees, from page 1

How many trees could be cleared ensued. The negotiations between Duke Power Company and Davidson College lasted over a month
and were difficult because such extensive clearance has not taken place in years. Duke Power routinely clears danger trees and
other obstacles around the transmission line. According to Holthouser, “arguing over the rights outlined in some very old right-of-way documents
versus ‘standard practices of the energy business’” was the most disagreeable part of the negotiations. At the closing of the
negotiations,Duke Power agreed to stay within their 68-foot clearance right-of-way as well as remove selected “danger-trees” with the college’s permission.
The college plans to ensure that Duke abides by the clearance agreement and that the company performs only the necessary
clearance work. “I’ve put one of our employees out there to watch them,” Holthouser said. “He’s also out there to
make sure that enough signage is in place to make runners aware in that work zone.”

The tree-clearing has affected classes that use the ecological preserve for research and maintenance of the trees and area as
a whole, especially for members of the Biology Department. Biology professor Mark Stanback uses the preserve to study competition for
nest sites between birds and wasps. “All of us here in the Biology Department are especially grateful to David Holthouser
of the Physical Plant (and lots of other folks) for negotiating so forcefully on behalf of the ecological preserve,” Stanback
said.

Stanback placed nesting boxes along the power line as part of his study on bird and wasp nest site competition,
which Holthouser had to move before the clearing took place. “The clearing... will undoubtedly affect the wasp vs. bird study.
The right-of-way remains excellent wasp habitat, but I expect more bluebird, chickadee, and titmouse nests there,” Stanback said. “Bluebirds prefer
open habitat; chickadees and titmice like edge. This isn’t good or bad; it’s just different.” Stanback expects that most of
his other studies on the trail will be unaffected by the clearing.

Biology professor Michael Dorcas believes that the clearing will actually help his research. “Some species that I work with, some
snakes, lizards, may even benefit from ‘opening’ up the forest some,” Dorcas said.

Students, however, are displeased with the aesthetic effects of the clearing, particularly near the cross country trails. “I actually just
thought that the crews were clearing the overgrown parts of the trails [that run through the ecological preserve] that would
hinder walkers and joggers, which was great, but they went a little overboard,” Carey Baxter ’08 said. “It was nice
to have shrubs and trees surrounding the paths.” Sara Yates ’08 agreed. “The trails were so beautiful,” Yates said. “After
the cutting, the trails have lost some of their characteristic charm and now look a bit ravaged.”

GEORGE L. ABERNETHY ENDOWMENT FUNDS DEADLINE: Friday, November 11

Abernethy Funds are available to students in the following three categories:
1) Independent student research, either in the US or abroad.
2) Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year or the summer.
3) Collaborative research by students and faculty. The student must have a clearly defined independent role in the research.

At the request of the donor, applications are limited to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences. FYI:
Last year the Abernethy Endowment supported projects with grants up to $3,000; the average award was about $1,600. Application forms
are available in the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283). Completed application forms are due back
in this office before 5:00 p.m. on Friday, November 11, 2005.
