. ARTS LIVING THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2005

Fishy service but excellent food at 131 Main

By VIRGINIA GREGORY & ANDREW SCHAPIRO
Restaurant Critics

The menu of 131 Main mixes old classics and innovative twists. We began the meal with two appetizers, both of
which proved to be far from run of the mill. The grilled California artichokes with remoulade sauce were cooked to
perfection with a healthy dose of olive oil to enhance their flavor. The salmon with toast points and aioli, which
is smoked in-house, was enough to serve four people and had no trace of the overpowering fishy flavor that is
often associated with smoked fish. Above all, the menu explains, 131 Main prides itself on the freshness of its ingredients
and the fact that everything is made from scratch.

These high standards pay off, especially in the entree category. The Baby Back Ribs, like all of the pork on
the menu, are imported from Denmark, proving that quality ingredients result in a delicious product. The chef smothers lean meat
with a slightly sweet, smoky sauce, and it literally falls off the bone. Our filet, which was equally tender, had
a wonderful flavor that was enhanced by the hickory wood used in the grill. While we asked for it to
be prepared medium, the meat first arrived sanguine red. The mistake was quickly corrected and the meat returned tender and
steaming. Pan-fried flounder was just one of the many fresh fish selections, and the thin, flaky white fish was nicely
complemented by a crisp, breadcrumb crust.

131 MAIN
17830 N. STATESVILLE RD.
704-896-0131
WWW.131-MAIN.COM
AVERAGE PRICE OF AN ENTREE: $18

131 Main blends traditional southern style with modern flavor. Servers at 131 Main are extremely flexible about substituting side items,
which allowed us to sample some of the more unusual selections on the menu. The wild rice salad (a chilled
mixture of rice, raisins, pecans, red onions, and a tangy Indian dressing) was perhaps the most unique. Its zest was
a welcome change from traditional carbohydrates, but the temperature contradicted that of the filet it accompanied. Furthermore, we were surprised
upon receiving the bill to find that the cost of this special was more than we anticipated for a dish
with only one side item.

One standout was the tender spaghetti squash with fresh marinara sauce, which was a great low-carb alternative to actual pasta.
More traditional choices included a loaded baked potato and Potatoes Colcannon—a fancy name for garlic mashed potatoes drizzled with olive
oil. We capped the meal with an enormous slice of key lime pie piled high with whipped cream and a
crumble topping. The tangy lime filling was nicely balanced by the sweet whipped cream and the pecan crust was far
superior to the basic graham cracker variety found cradling many pies.

We were fortunate to be seated upon arrival without a reservation, though we attribute our luck to an early weeknight
dinner. The restaurant was full when we left, and sometimes diners wait an hour or more for a table. 131
Main has clearly asserted itself as a mainstay in the area, particularly in that it lacks competition from other quality,
new American establishments. Calling ahead is recommended.

Corey Harris offers an

By BOBBY DEMURO
Staff Writer

Southern bluesman Corey Harris came out with his fourth CD, “Mississippi to Mali,” in November of 2003, looking to study
the link between traditional Southern blues music and African blues. The CD is an attempt to convey the link between
these two forms of blues, as Harris actually goes between Mississippi and Mali to play with American and African musicians.
The idea behind the CD came from Martin Scorsese’s PBS Series, “The Blues,” on which Harris appeared. Harris, an established
bluesman on Rounder Records, has released three other CDs up to this point, in addition to embarking on a tour
with Ben Harper.

Harris plays on this CD with famous African musicians such as Ali Farka Toure (considered the father of Malian blues),
as well as Sam Carr, Bobby Rush, and Sharde Thomas. Thomas is a 12-year-old fife and drum player and the
granddaughter of African blues legend Otha Turner. Turner passed away one week before he was to record on Harris’ CD.
The CD has received positive reviews from critics nationally, citing Harris as the bridge between traditional Black American music and
the music of Africa.

The CD itself is somewhat experimental. Many of the tracks are non-traditional, and seem to feature more elements of African
music than they do American blues. Tracks like “Big Road Blues,” “Mr. Turner,” and “Station Blues” are reminiscent of, and
contain elements concerning, American blues. A majority of the CD, however, is devoted to specifically African elements of the music.
Pieces such as “Back Atcha,” “Tamalah,” “Nijarka,” and “Coahoma” all mix African and American elements.Blues contain very interesting and entertaining
elements of traditional African music, such as the fife, njarka (a one-string violin), and various percussion elements. "Charlene," track 13
on the CD, is one of his most aesthetically pleasing pieces, containing a relaxing vocal, guitar, and "djembe" (an African
percussion instrument) accompaniment. This compilation is interesting and eclectic, but it lacks several key aesthetic elements. While the point of
the music is to highlight African rhythms, the music can be difficult to enjoy, as it is so different from
American blues. Purposely or not, it lacks a strong vocal presence on this CD that is usually characteristic of his
other work (like the CDs "Greens" and "Fish Ain't Bitin'"). Although this CD is entertaining and innovative, it feels more
like a blues blend compilation rather than a natural musical progression. While Harris himself states that "the listener must decide...
rather than be told and led down the path by the narrator," this recording seems unclear as to its connection.
Natural musical development or not, Harris' fourth album "Mississippi to Mali" is an entertaining blend of music from two different
worlds. For blues fans, and even those who enjoy eclectic music, Harris's music is well-deserving of a listen. Although it
is somewhat difficult to, at first, enjoy the music, a deeper listening to this non-traditional (by our standards) blend leads
to an enjoyment and appreciation of cross-cultural connection through music. Overall, Harris's fourth CD is a step away from his
past and a step towards bridging a gap across two continents, separated musically for hundreds of years. As more and
more African musical elements come to the forefront of American musical culture (and vice-versa), and this "musical diaspora" reaches greater
proportions, Harris leads the way.

131-main.com for reservations: would be wise. The atmosphere was understated, and its simplicity hinted at aspirations to develop the restaurant
into a chain. Exposed brick walls, copper oil lanterns, and thick white molding everywhere, however, relate to 131 Main's Southern
roots. Overall, the atmosphere is calming without putting anyone to sleep. A sea green wall with mirrors along it divides
the dining area from the large bar, thus keeping the noise level bearable. Many of the lacquered wood tables are
booths and all are well lit amidst a general dimness, conducive to a relatively private dining experience. Each table is
well-appointed with a large wooden peppermill, a metal domed sugar bowl, and a fat peach-colored candle. Black cloth napkins are
a nice alternative to the standard white. After a moment's debate, we determined that the buttonholes sewn into the corner
of each napkin promote their use as bibs for messy dishes like the ribs. While the food and atmosphere at
131 Main impressed us, the service managed to make our meal there somewhat unpleasant. A truly memorable meal relies as
much on friendly and efficient service as it does on great food. Sometimes, as during our evening at 131 Main,
a server can act overly intrusive and spoil what was meant to be a relaxing or intimate evening. Shortly after
a blonde woman had introduced herself as our server and taken our drink order, a man informed us that he
would be taking over our table. 131 Main seemed to have no bussers, only servers. While ours seemed well-informed at
first, he interrupted the meal often, unnecessarily asking us repeated times how our meal was and if we needed anything
else. Our appetizer plates were pulled out from under us, literally, as we were still eating. Though our server was
kind enough to leave the plate of smoked salmon until our entrees arrived, only one of us had utensils left
to eat it. By the time we were ready for dessert, drinks had become the joke of the evening. One
of our glasses of water was practically taken out of the hand to be refilled. The server asked multiple times
if we wanted coffee to "wash down" the key lime pie. He then informed us that the secret ingredient in
the pie was real key lime juice. We could not help but wonder what alternatives exist. In addition to the
items that we sampled, the menu boasts a wide selection of sandwiches, salads, and other entrees. Every night there are
a number of specials, many of which include fresh seafood. A seasonal vegetable plate is also available as a vegetarian
option. With respect to beverages, there are a number of fresh-squeezed fruit juices as well as two decadent dessert martinis.
The restaurant also serves a decent selection of wines, many of which can be ordered by the glass. 131 Main
is located in a newly-developed subdivision off Highway 21, between exits 28 and 25.

Food: A-
Service: C+
Atmosphere: A
Value: B

COREY HARRIS
MISSISSIPPI TO MALI
ROUNDER RECORDS
