10 PERSPECTIVES THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2005

Staff Editorial

Mid-term evaluations

With Fall Break almost upon us and the semester coming to its halfway point, our editorial staff feels it’s appropriate to give out some mid-term evaluations of our own. Here’s how we grade some big and small campus issues so far this year:

Substance-free policy: B+
Last semester’s controversial sub-free plan, scattering the halls throughout dormitories instead of lumping them in one building, appears to be working well this year. Relatively few complaints have surfaced in the plan’s first stages; let’s hope that’s a sign of progress, and either CCRL or SGA should do a thorough review next spring.

Dormitory problems: C-
Despite constant complaints throughout the last few years, the sophomore apartments have continued to disappoint. Problems with the air systems led to many nights of sweat or shivers, and though the issue was resolved for now and the affected students compensated with some bonus bucks, we can’t help but wonder if problems will still persist. Recent problems with mold in Sentelle do not breed much optimism.

Katrina Relief: A-
Davidson’s response to Hurricane Katrina was prompt and deserves recognition. The variety of events — an a cappella benefit concert, food drives, Operation Backpack, student CD sales, music department concert marathon — has raised over $21,000 as of last Wednesday. But the low turnout at last week’s ‘A Night for New Orleans’ event suggests that student participation may be in need of a boost.

Sprinklers: C
Physical plant means well, we know they do. But water the lawn, not the sidewalks!

Homecoming humiliation: D
The third annual Homecoming loss in a row is disheartening for fans, alumni, and players. We appreciate the effort of the team—but what are the coaches thinking? Let’s schedule an easier opponent next year and increase the chances for some Homecoming cheer.

Vamanos Van: B+
The SGA and President Ryan Arnold ’06 have made an admirable effort to revamp the once-faltering student shuttle system. While the plan is just underway, professional drivers and improved vehicles bode well for the college’s weekend warriors. With the new alcohol policy putting a premium on off-campus parties, the van service provides an important opportunity to stay safe.

Student initiatives: A
From ‘Changing Minds’, a mental health group, to ‘P.S.’, the new student-run restaurant, we salute Davidsonians proactively addressing important issues and adding new opportunities to the College community.

The Davidsonian @ ALENDA LUX UBI ORA LIBERTAS ©

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel

Managing Editor
Mike Giglio

News Editors
Kate Gillespie, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia

Perspectives Editors
Halley Aelion & Matt Bandyk

Arts & Living Editors
Jarrod Blue & Reid Wildman

Yow! Editors
Bobby Kenner & Jeff Yeakel

Sports Editors
Monica Jamouneau & Pierce Trumbo

Photography Editor
Jessica Hodge

Business Manager
Nick Horton

Advertising & Circulation Managers
Sarah Bogue & Janelle Milanes

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Look at individuals, not race

Several articles were written last week concerning the “movement” to establish a historically black sorority on the Davidson campus; however, not everyone agrees with this movement. Specifically, I am commenting on the letter to the editor written by Ryan Clark ’07 (Sept. 28). Mr. Clark is greatly mistaken and needs some clarification on issues of gender, race, and individual rights.

I find it quite interesting that this “movement” is “controversial.” Why should any student feel threatened by the formation of another social institution that doesn’t concern them? Why should I care if you are in a fraternity? Every student has the individual right to choose who and what they want to affiliate themselves with.

The very presence of any social institution here at Davidson creates walls, but they also serve a purpose. Women in eating houses share a bond of sisterhood — something that could only be gained in an all-female setting. So why worry if African-American women want to establish a sorority (which would accept qualified applicants of all backgrounds) as a “cultural alternative” to the eating houses on campus?

Finally, if you were so colorblind you wouldn’t notice and furthermore, you wouldn’t care about the demographics of a sorority. You would look at individuals with separate and distinct traits, and respect their personal right to or not to associate with certain persons who look like themselves.

Candance Coleman ’08

Don’t create sorority for one race

I too was appalled by the attempts to create a historically African-American sorority (in response to Ryan Clark’s letter, Sept. 28). I thought we were trying to get rid of discrimination, not create an organization that promotes it.

The main point is: Davidson College does not have sororities; the campus has voted on that many times. So why should we create one for a specific category of students? Because we want to show that we are not racist? To promote minority applicants to eating houses? But what about racism to all the other groups?

Prejudice does not mean discrimination between blacks and whites. The word means to judge someone or something prematurely and irrationally. Nowhere in there does it state that this is some idea between certain races. Asians are a minority here, so are Hispanics. To appease them all should we create sororities for them too and leave other people out? Should we then make whites a minority in sororities, because that’s what will happen. We should bepromoting integration in the eating houses. It’s best to come together and not stand divided. The point of a liberal arts college should be liberation, and we can’t do that if we separate the races. If the college doesn’t want sororities, no one should have them, not blacks or whites or Asians, or Latinos. By only creating a sorority for one race, you’re discriminating against another, and then we’re just back where we started.
Marian Schembari ’09

Why only protest female stereotypes?
In his Sept. 28 editorial, “The misguided and the (not) misogynist,” Nathan Bradshaw wanted us to be randomly “outraged that women play with smaller basketballs” (along with their smaller crowds and paychecks, which he didn’t bother to mention). For a guy who “consider[s] those who feel offended by The Yowl to be overreacting severely,” Bradshaw voiced quite a tangential, severe overreaction of his own. Wouldn’t it have made a lot more sense if he’d just expressed outrage over the fact that men were also objectified in that now-infamous, Sept. 7 issue of “The Yowl?” The satire, “Ranking drop caused by attractive ’09 class,” doesn’t even mention women but features a photo of a shirtless guy with muscles, a nice tan, and a flat stomach. He’s meant to represent a dumb, hot freshman. This photo is juxtaposed with another photo of a shirtless male, who’s labeled as a “fat, drunk student.” Considering that the DWC’s (Sept. 14) complaint was that Davidson women were depicted “as confused, anorexic, easy bimbos waiting for the next ‘hook up[,]’” why didn’t Bradshaw just point out that Davidson men were also sexually objectified and labeled as sketchy, scary, fat and drunk, and sexually desperate? He could have just asked why the “feminist” faculty didn’t challenge these negative images and photos, and only focused on the satires that denigrated women. (I mean, it makes sense to do that if you’re a member of a women’s committee, but for the “feminist” faculty, not so much).
Aparna Iyer ’06

Private insurance no solution for Katrina woes
Matt Bandyk’s op-ed (Sept. 28) states that government is innately flawed because it is run by imperfect persons. I accept this statement but argue that the federal government provides a better form of relief than private insurance (the form of relief Mr. Bandyk suggests will solve “big government”). Mr. Bandyk claims that “big government” is not a proper form of providing relief because the leadership might not be adequate. And as we have seen, President Bush has accepted the blame for this tragedy. However, in a government elected by the people, the leadership, including the president, is held directly accountable for their failed efforts. Public pressure, including the media’s, led to the leadership’s apology and subsequent response. There is a system of accountability. Businesses are self-serving. Unlike the federal government, which is held accountable through election, insurance companies lack a system of accountability. They are accountable to those who can afford their insurance — not those who are marginalized or poor. The people most affected in New Orleans were people without private insurance — why? — because they could not afford it. So unless a private insurance company is willing to cover low-income families, this plan does not solve the problem. Thus, I am inclined to believe that the federal government is a better solution for providing disaster relief. I will grant that the system failed in Katrina’s instance, but the individuals who caused it to fail have been openly recognized and criticized. As a result, changes have been made to respond to Hurricane Rita.
Davis Greene ’09

Party themes carry troublesome labels
I, for one, would like to congratulate Davidson women at being so comfortable with their self-image that they willingly cosponsor and attend last spring’s golf pros and tennis hos party and this fall’s pimp and ho party. There was a time when we were concerned with labels and with how our actions would reflect upon us. Concerned with how we would be viewed and, therefore, treated by others (of the same or opposite gender, of our peer group or by faculty and staff). It is good to see that those days have passed. In the spring Davidson men showed they can be comfortable emulating Tiger Woods or Kevin Costner (Tin Cup) and Adam Sandler (Happy Gilmore), while Davidson women can openly embrace the opportunity to be seen as hos. This fall Davidson men showed they could wear a little bling, and Davidson women can openly embrace the opportunity to be seen as hos. So a few short skirts and skimpy tops were worn. It’s not like the invitation said you had to do anything illegal. Just act like a ho. And the golf pro and pimp guys were poking fun at themselves too (Izod shirts are so 80’s and most Davidson guys just look silly in Fubu knock-offs). I mean, really, it’s all in fun. It’s not like anybody remembers it on Monday. As they say—what happens on the court, stays on the court... Davidson has definitely come a long way.
Karen Bernd, Associate Professor of Biology

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor. Please e-mail submissions of no more than 250 words to davidsonian@davidson.edu by 6 p.m. on Sunday. We reserve the right to edit for content, brevity and grammar.