**The Davidsonian**

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"  
DAVIDSON COLLEGE  
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2005  
VOLUME 96, NUMBER 21

By BRANDON CARROLL AND RUCHI TURAKHIA  
Editor-in-Chief and News Editor

For 29 years, the bedsheet banners on the house on Main Street just before the railroad bridge have served as a way for one woman to show her love for her community. For 29 years, Jo Anne Shackelford announced birthdays, anniversaries, and other events with messages of love spray-painted onto bedsheet banners that she hung outside her house. Jo Anne, 54, was diagnosed with adenocarcinoma of the lungs, a form of non-smoker’s lung cancer, in October, and passed away at 10:45 p.m. Monday.

At Davidson, Jo Anne worked as an application processor in the Office of Admission for almost 15 years. “It takes a remarkable person to make each and every person one comes in contact with feel like they are a special friend,” said Marilyn Ainslie, who worked with Jo Anne in processing. “Jo Anne’s indomitable good will brought joy to each and every person she met ... I consider myself fortunate to have worked with Jo Anne for ten years.”

Jo Anne was committed to several organizations in the community in addition to her work in Admissions.

See Jo Anne, page 5

---

Incoming class selected from largest applicant pool to date

By KATE GILLESPIE  
Senior Staff Writer

The Office of Admissions and Financial Aid finished reviewing 4,257 applications on March 25 by accepting 25.8 percent of applicants for admission to Davidson. After admitting 184 students from two early decision deadlines, the Office of Admission mailed acceptance letters to 915 of the regular decision applicants.

“We’re very excited about the class,” Director of Multicultural Admission Wookie Payne said. “It’s a very powerful class as far as leadership experience, academic accomplishments, and intellectual curiosity. We try to shape a class that will provide an exciting educational experience for all our students.”

The total number of applicants was up 2.4 percent from last year, and the acceptance rate was lower than last year’s rate of 26.6 percent. Payne attributed the difference in numbers to the Office of Admission’s commitment to maintaining classes of approximately 460 students.

“Our approach to this class was first and foremost not to overenroll the class,” Payne said. “We wanted to admit at a rate that would not overadmit the class and allow us to admit students from the waiting list. We haven’t admitted any students on the waiting list over the last two years.”

The Office of Admission typically expects 40 to 41 percent of admitted students to enroll, although Payne believes that a growing applicant pool may be a sign that more students are interested in attending Davidson. The admitted students represent 46 states and 25 countries.

See ’09, page 4

---

NEWS: Alcohol and drug policy under reviewApproves four recommendations for change, will discuss others April 12
By Liz Barry
News Editor

The Counsel on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) approved four recommendations for changes to Davidson’s alcohol and illegal drug policies last month. Because of time constraints, CCRL was unable to discuss or vote on issues pertaining to the distribution of alcohol to minors, drinking games, risk management and party policies, and relations between Campus Police and students.

The Alcohol and Drug Policy Review Task Force, chaired by Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano, drafted the recommendations after reviewing current drug and alcohol policies over the past several months. The Patterson Court Council has reviewed the Task Force’s proposals and is drafting several additional recommendations. President Bobby Vagt will make a final decision regarding policy changes after reviewing the various proposals later this month.

CCRL approved the recommendation that classified using a false ID for alcohol service on campus as an Honor Code violation. “This issue hasn’t been articulated clearly or publicized widely in the past,” Marsicano said. “We affirmed that our proposed policy is a good idea.”

The second recommendation approved by CCRL was a stricter drug policy that differentiates between marijuana and harder drugs. Currently, a first drug offense of any kind results in a minimum of probation and drug education counseling. The Task Force’s recommendation stipulates that a first offense of a drug harder than marijuana should result in

See CCRL, page 4

Catholic students plan memorial service for the Pope
By Kate Gillespie
Senior Staff Writer

Pope John Paul II, whose 26-year pontificate was the third-longest in Vatican history, died Saturday from heart and kidney complications brought on by a urinary tract infection at the age of 84. The Polish-born John Paul II, whose election in 1978 made him the first non-Italian pope in 455 years, had been struggling for years with health problems from Parkinson’s disease and arthritis but continued to serve as the leader for the world’s more than one billion Catholics.

Catholics in the Davidson community, in addition to all those on campus who were touched by the pope’s life and death, are among the millions of people who are mourning John Paul II and making plans to commemorate his passing. The body of Pope John Paul II lies in state in St. Peter’s Basilica at the Vatican, guarded by a Swiss Guard. Students who are a part of the Catholic Campus Ministry will participate in a memorial service at St. Mark’s Catholic Church in Huntersville tomorrow night at 7 p.m. CCM leaders are also considering a campus memorial service to be held tomorrow night in Lingle Chapel at 12:45 a.m.

“The Pope’s death certainly marks the end of a remarkable era in the Catholic Church,” said Adjunct Catholic Chaplain Karen Soos. “John Paul II transformed the

See Pope, page 3

SEE PAGE 2
Davidson town chief of police retires

SEE PAGE 6
Is Wilson really a Tarheel fan?

SEE SPORTS, PAGE 12