14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31, 2005

from Football, page 16

el to Lexington to play an out-of-conference game against Virginia Military Institute.

VMI, a 1-AA scholarship program, was absent from the schedule last season, after two previous games in 2002 and 2003.

“We will take the season one game at a time, but we expect to be successful and play in the PFL Championship on November 17,” said Arinsmier.

He went on to say that a win this Saturday on the road will have the team a step closer to its ultimate goal, “putting a ring on everyone’s finger.”

Players rally around their coach in preparation for their season-opener against VMI.

Second OT goal wins game for the Wildcats

By KEVIN BIRNEY
Staff Writer

When Kelly Brennan ’07 scored the game-winning goal in the second overtime on Saturday, and finally ended the frustration of several near misses by the team, the crowd—and her teammates—went wild.

Brennan’s goal, which bounced in during the first minute of the second OT, capped an impressive comeback by Davidson, who found themselves down 2-0 to visiting Rider as late as 20 minutes into the second half.

Although the Wildcats had several good shots on goal throughout the first half, the Rider goalkeeper came up with impressive save after save, including one in which a Davidson player flipped over her outstretched body.

Thanks in large part to its netminder’s efforts, Rider went into halftime up 1-0 and scored again nine minutes into the second half.

The ’Cats, however, responded with an offensive attack that produced several shots out of corner situations.

After a few close misses which had the home crowd groaning with frustration, Jen Willis ‘08 finally put the ’Cats on the board at the 13:30 mark and co-captain Emily Davis ‘06 added an unassisted goal to tie the game two minutes later.

Looking sluggish and tired in the intense heat, Rider began to break down, leading to more opportunities for Davidson. However, despite outshooting the Broncs 24-11 overall, and 10-1 in the second half, the ’Cats were unsuccessful in taking the lead.

LAW FIRM

We Are Proud To Be Your Neighborhood Law Firm

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School

Best Lawyers in America ‘84—'05

Concentrating in Personal Injury

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. University of Richmond

Commissioner for the Town of Davidson ‘83-'85; '88-'97

NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president

Former Judge NC Court of Appeals

Adjunct professor of trial advocacy Duke Law School UNC Law School

Town of Davidson Commercial and North End Corridor Plan '05

Mecklenburg County Real Estate Executive Council '03 to present.

Other Areas of Practice

Appeals, Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning, Family Law, Litigation, Real Estate, Wills & Trusts

In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699 (Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

At the end of regulation, the score remained tied at two.

The crowd showed newfound energy as overtime began; now with a six-on-six format instead of ten-on-ten, the ’Cats remained strong.

In the next 15 minutes, two failed opportunities caused the game to stay close, first with a goal that was called back because of a foul, then with a shot by Brennan that went just wide with 2:50 left on the clock.

Brennan, however, was not done for the day. Her goal in the second overtime was set up by Kayli Maxwell ’08, who fought her way through the Rider defense. Brennan caught Maxwell’s pass on the right wing, paused, and sent it into the open goal. Brennan, who has never scored a game-winning goal at Davidson before, said that she was “just getting my feet set. Making sure I was composed.”

“It’s a great victory,” coach Lisa Thompson said after the game. “The girls’ fitness looked terrific. We worked hard. Great victory.”

Davidson will take on Towson at 6:30 p.m. on Sept. 2.

from Fall Preview, page 13