14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS : WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2005

Wildcat Pulse: The world of Davidson athletics

Track and field breaks school, personal records at Tiger Invitational

This past weekend the men’s track and field team traveled to Clemson for the Tiger Invitational, and the ’Cats broke
three school records and posted numerous personal records at the meet. Stefan Flessa ’08, responsible for two of the three
school records, was happy with his teammates and the performance they registered down in South Carolina. “I want to congratulate
everyone for having a really great meet. It was probably the best one of the year.” Joe Taylor ’06 was
also pleased with the results, saying, “It was exciting to compete at such a large and important event this early
in the season.”

Not to be outdone, however, the women’s team also posted strong performances. In particular, distance runners Megal Atias ’08 and
Brenna Burns ’08 placed well for the ’Cats.

To start things off for the men’s team, Flessa set a school record in the 200 in 23.03, while Dave
Ritchie ’07 finished in a personal record of 23.30. In the 60, Taylor also posted a personal best of 7.79.
In the 400, Ritchie finished in 51.54, breaking a school record he set last year as a freshman. Douglas Noreen
’07 paced the Cats in the 800, and his 1:57.67 was good enough for a second-place finish, just one one-hundredth
of a second behind the leader. In the 1600, Nick Lehman ’05 battled not only the competition but the flu
to finish in 4:48.64. In the 3000, John Baker ’06 and Austin Mercadante ’06 both registered top-ten all-time marks, while
Flessa, John Bialas ’07, Ritchie, and Noreen finished in 3:27.05 in the 1600 relay to set another school record. Bialas
also set a personal best in the long jump, while Nick Diluzio ’08 and Mike Anselmo ’06 competed in the
shot.

On the women’s side, Atias and Burns highlighted the meet for the Wildcats. Atias finished first in the mile in
a time of 5:07.90, while Burns crossed the finish line in the 3000 in a time of 10:24.49. “[The meet]
was a great tune-up before Conference,” said Burns after the race. “Being on the track again and racing made me
so excited about another meet.” In other races, Summerlee Walter ’08 led two other Wildcats, Jessica Chasen ’07 and Cecie
Blair ’08, in the 400 with a time of 1:01.97, while Atias returned to lead Hilary Leister ’06, Colleen McKown
’08, and Mary Meghan Daly ’08 in the 800 with a time of 2:21.84. Katurri Phillips ’08 led the way
in the 200 in a time of 28.03, and Kim Pierre ’05 and Amaka Obidegwu ’08 competed in the shot.

“The meet went very well,” said head coach Gary Andrew. “It was a good tune-up for Conference, allowing us to
make some decisions regarding event entries and identify areas we need to work on.” Ritchie was impressed by the performances
of his teammates, saying, “For us to break three records not only shows how hard we’ve worked, but also how
the entire program has risen.” Both the men’s and women’s teams next run at the SoCon Indoor Championships on Feb.
25 and 26 at East Tennessee State.

- By Britt Mercadante, Staff Writer

Wrestling shut out 49-0 by Chattanooga, still winless in SoCon duals

Over the past two weeks, the ’Cats have been looking to finally get over the hump and into the win
column in the Southern Conference, but victories have continued to prove elusive. In tough losses against Appalachian State and VMI,
strong individual performances by Matt Pendle ’08, Trebor Clavette ’08, and Patrick Coman ’06 have not been enough to earn
the ’Cats a conference match victory. That task did not get any easier for the ’Cats last Saturday as they
traveled to Chattanooga to face off against some of the top-ranked grapplers in the country. Chattanooga began with a pin
at 125, but the ’Cats looked to get on the scoreboard with close matches in the 133 and 141 divisions.
Jim Avola ’07 and Matt Leonard ’06 both fell by three points, however, and Chattanooga went on to sweep the
match. The only other close dual was a three-point loss by Pendle, one of the steadiest Wildcats this season.“The team
still needs to improve physically and mentally,” said Clavette, the ’Cats best wrestler at 165. “But, I think that we
are finally beginning to understand how to take that next step.” Mental toughness is particularly elusive in the sport of
wrestling, as team performance really is just a mathematical addition of individual performances. “You can’t let someone else’s match, or
the team performance, distract you from the opponent across from you,” said Clavette. “I need to do well in my
match, and that is how I mentally prepare.” The ’Cats realize that although gaining team victories is extremely important, individual
improvement and confidence are the integral factors to a successful squad. The 'Cats have exhibited mental toughness this season, and
they will try to show that as they continue their tough conference stretch against The Citadel on Thursday at 7:00
p.m. in their last home match of the season. “This match is very important for our seeding in the conference
tournament, and hopefully we can have some strong individual performances,” said Clavette.

- By Will Bryan, Staff Writer

Baseball opens up regular season with 6-3 win over Wake Forest

For the second consecutive year, Davidson dealt ACC rival Wake Forest an early-season loss, as the Wildcats handed the Demon
Deacons a 6-3 loss on strong pitching performances by Andy Carter ’05, Rob Wilson ’07 and Jay Haefner ’06. Davidson
got out of the gates quickly, as the Wildcats plated two runs in the top half of the second inning
on two RBI singles. Wake Forest responded with two runs of its own, but Davidson jumped ahead for good in
the top of the fourth inning on a two-run error by the Demon Deacons and a run-scoring double by Ronnie
Shore ’06. Wildcat starter Carter pitched into the fifth inning, giving up three runs on just six hits before giving
way to Wilson in the sixth inning. Wilson pitched three scoreless innings for Davidson, and an insurance run by the
Wildcats gave them a 6-3 lead heading into the ninth inning. The Deacons staged a rally in the ninth off
of reliever Jay Haefner ’06, loading the bases with two outs, but Wake Forest then flew out to left to
give the Wildcats the 6-3 win. Haefner earned the save after walking a pair and striking out two, and Carter
earned the win for the Wildcats. Davidson next returns home this weekend to face Georgetown in a three-game series beginning
Feb. 19.

By Wilson McCrory, Sports Editor

From ’Cats, page 16

game with under a minute to play. Grant converted on the first attempt, and Conor Grace ’05 boarded his miss
on the second to give the Wildcats possession once more. The Cougars again fouled Grant, who this time made both
free throws for a five-point lead with only 37 seconds left. Charleston nailed a jumper on its next possession, however,
and after stealing Johnson’s inbounds pass, hit on a game-tying three-point attempt with just 22 seconds remaining. On the ensuing
possession, Grant held the ball for the last shot before making his move for the lane with five seconds left.
He could not maintain control as he drove towards the basket, but Morton was there to pick up the loose
ball in traffic. He momentarily lost possession as well, but regained control and managed to put up a shot in
the lane with less than one second left. That was all the Wildcats would need, as Morton’s game-winning prayer bounced
around on the rim before falling through the cylinder as time expired to give Davidson the 76-74 win. With the
victory, the 'Cats moved within two games of an undefeated conference season that has been accomplished by only four other
Davidson teams in school history. The Wildcats must travel to South cellar-dweller The Citadel next week before heading home for
the season-finale against Wofford on Feb. 26. “I don’t really have any worries for the upcoming games. Everyone is going
to be tough; everyone will give us their best shot,” Winters said. “But with the way we work in practice,
I’m not worried about a letdown.” Winters also says that it’s not necessarily too early to say the magic words
“NCAA bid.” With a tournament championship in the SoCon, the Wildcats would automatically receive an invitation to the Big Dance.
“Making the NCAA tournament has been the number one goal of this team from day one. But to do that,
we have to focus on getting better every day, whether it’s practice or a game. Coach [Bob McKillop] does a
good job of stressing this and we have taken it to heart.”

College Insider.com
