8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mold growing Nicely

A DAY FOR JUNIO

DAVIDSON meets TS

Free Davidson notepad lures student into applying early
See Page 5

Freshman girl uses all 19 meals
See Page 6

Jerk using your toilet stall
Junior still getting e-mails from club he signed up for freshman year
See Page 9

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2005

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

Presented by Top Dawg Entertainment

February 23, 2005

New Davidson cable channel announced

When dorm rooms were hooked up for cable access last fall, a channel was left unused and available for future
use by the College. Finally, last Monday, Davidson announced what it plans to do with the empty space left by
the channel. Newly-appointed Dean of Cable Chip Douglas explained Davidson’s long-term plans.

“We will have a full lineup of programming,” said Douglas. The temporarily labeled ‘Davidson TV,’ is slated to launch in
early April after Easter break. Douglas said some programming has already begun production, including Davidson TV’s upcoming reality show, “Vamanos
Van Confessions.”

“The concept is a lot like HBO’s ‘Taxi Cab Confessions’,” said Douglas. “We installed a hidden camera in the Vamanos
Van last semester, and we’ve been capturing some great stuff. It’s really unbelievable the footage that we have been able
to accumulate in a short period of time. I’m talking about singing and chanting, arguments, hook-ups, even a live childbirth.”
He described the show’s best moments as being the interaction between the sober driver and often drunken passengers. Students praise
or berate the driver, argue over pickup and drop-off points, or in one clip, try to remove the driver’s pants
during the commute. Douglas elaborated, “When I saw that

International students excited for Spring Break

Davidson College’s international students are excited about their big plans for the upcoming spring break. Most international students stay at
Davidson over the short spring break because their home countries are too far away. However, that does not hinder their
ability to have a good time. Manish Suthar, a junior from New Delhi, India described one of his favorite activities
to do on spring break at Davidson. “My friends and I love to just run on the track at Richardson
Stadium for hours on end. What makes it really special is that we each get like two lanes to ourselves
and the track team doesn’t harass us when we run because they’re all in Cancun or Palm Beach.”

Dining experiences also provide great spring break stories for the international students. Henri Démeunier ’07 from Paris, France, reminisced about
one of his favorite spring break memories. “We all wanted to go somewhere exotic for our first spring break dinner
in Davidson so we finally decided to go to the Soda Shop. After we ate our food, I was challenged
by my friends to a milkshake drinking contest to see who could drink their milkshake in the fastest time. I
won at the Soda Shop, but later that night I lost when I spent the whole night with my head
in the toilet. Spring break baby! Does it get any better than that?”

International student spring breaks are not just content with athletics and dining; some students like to participate in scholarly scavenger
hunts with their friends. Ivana Poretzky ’07 from St. Petersburg, Russia described her late night thrill ride. “I was relaxing
with my friends on the tire swing by the Union when I got the bright idea to go on a
scavenger hunt. And in the academic spirit of Davidson, I wanted to make it scholarly, so I designed a scavenger
hunt where we would find books that were present in both the Davidson College library and the Davidson town library.
Needless to say, we were cross-referencing into the wee hours of the morning and then laughed about our academic experiences
over some sausage links at Waffle House.”

Sven Nordgaard ’05, from Stockholm, Sweden, discussed other perks for staying at school for spring break. “Oh, it’s great. When
the other students who went away for spring break first get back to campus and drive into the Belk parking
lot, guess whose 1988 light blue Saab they see parked in the first row five feet away from Belk dorm?
That’s right, it’s all mine. Have fun walking from satellite, suckers!”

Some American students were shocked to learn that international students stay on campus over spring break. Bobby Macintyre ’07 said,
“Why would someone actually stay here? Get the hell out while you can. Go get trashed on a beach somewhere.”
Said Amber Smith ’06, “I would just die if I didn’t get to go to Cabo San Lucas for my
break. There’s nowhere in Davidson to get a good tan. I feel so bad for the international students who stay
on campus.”

Others remaining on campus during the week include the baseball team, both male and female basketball teams, as well as
the cheerleading squad. It is still unknown whether or not any of those teams will participate inthe international students’ festivities.
Planned events for this year’s spring break include a Chambers Lawn soccer tournament, group meals at Bonsai and the Soda
Shop, and themed trivia nights. Freshman try to navigate a turn while three football players yanked down on his belt
loops, I knew we had something special.” The security camera above the driver, long unnoticed by passengers, catches students in
the rare unguarded moments of their lives. Oftentimes, overstressed students, uninhibited after alcohol consumption, let loose on the Vamanos Van,
and “Confessions” catches every second of it. “The transformation that many students undergo is fascinating,” said Davidson TV employee Ed
Leach. “One minute they’re stapling a recovered five-dollar bill to the wall. Three hours later, they’re destroying everything in their
path. It’s like a cross between ‘Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde’ and ‘Revenge of the Nerds.’”

Those worried about the repercussions of being caught on tape need not worry. The Honor Council has granted immunity to
students whose actions on the show may be incriminating. Davidson TV executives considered immunity essential to the success of the
show. Students will be prosecuted only in extreme cases, such as extensive property damage or murder. Despite the shenanigans, Douglas
said that the Vamanos Van paints the quintessential picture of the Davidson student. “They're excited, a little confused, and not
exactly sure what they are doing or why they are doing it. But still, they’re going places.”

Another show being discussed is a reality show that takes place at various Patterson Court parties. The concept, similar to
the hit program “Elimidate,” involves four male Davidson students each trying to talk and dance their way into the heart
of a young Davidson co-ed. “It’s going to be pretty awesome,” said the show's producer, Jimmy Martin ‘06. “I’ve got
a feeling that awkward bombs are going to be dropped early and often.” Martin and Douglas hope to have a
few episodes ready by the time Davidson TV hits the airwaves. Other shows in the works include a weekly Dance
Ensemble set, a reality show about the admissions process, a “Fear Factor” involving food from Vail Commons, and “World’s Funniest
Lake Norman Hospital Trips.” A show that may involve what is classified as “soft-core” pornography is also being decided upon,
though it would only be shown late at night. Those in charge of the station also plan on having a
new name by the time that the multi-faceted channel is programmed and made available to the student body. “Davidson TV
is a little too generic. Right now we're trying to decide between the Cat Channel and Whiskervision,” said Douglas.

The Davidsonian

Sophomores caught selling tickets to the housing lottery

With housing lottery right around the corner, many Davidson freshmen are beginning to feel the pressure of deciding where they
want to live next year. But for some unsuspecting freshmen, the ‘Housing Lottery’ turned out to be one big scam.
It started out as an innocent prank, but the prospect of making money became blinding for Mark Adlewood ’07 and
Stephen Truman ’07. “All of these freshmen kept coming up to us and asking about the housing lottery,” Truman said.
“At first we just tried to explain the process and give them some advice, but after about the seventh freshman
approached us, Mark and I were surprised about just how clueless the freshmen were. So we got this idea that
we should sell them tickets for the ‘Housing Lottery.’”

Whenever a first year would ask Truman or Adlewood about the housing lottery, they would say that they could sell
him or her a “lotto ticket” for five dollars. The duo told the first-year students that the ticket would guarantee
a lottery number in the top 100 of the class. Said Truman, “All of the freshmen who bought these tickets
were so thankful because we told them if they did not buy a ticket, their number would be randomly chosen,
and it was highly likely that they would end up living in the Sophomore Apartments. But, it was the referrals
that really helped us strike gold. They would go tell their friends, who would then come to us to buy
tickets. Before Mark and I knew it we had made $200.”

But, Adlewood said, disaster struck when the pair got overconfident. “We really got caught up in the money and started
to feel invincible. That’s when we started to take some stupid risks like standing outside the Union saying ‘we got
the “Housing Lottery” tickets’ under our breath and putting up an advertisement in The Crier.” After the Dean of Students
got wind of the scheme, the two were brought up on Code of Responsibility charges for the sale of counterfeit
items. They have already been forced to refund the money and, as an added punishment, are likely to be given
the last two lottery numbers.

THE YOWL, Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Crazy Fools:
Nathan “Nate Dawg” Bradshaw
Anderson Heston
Matthew Monson
Jeremy Bloxson
Alana Vaughn

Editor: Brendan Parets

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editor at brparets@davidson.edu

Note: If you haven't been living in a cave for the past year, then you should know that the Yowl
is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.
