TODAY'S NEWS
Ceiling raised SEE PAGE 2
O-Town to play spring concert SEE PAGE 5
Sophomore wishes that all those Juniors just stayed abroad SEE PAGE 6
Two days later, complacent again SEE PAGE 8
Student still waiting to be seated at Joel’s SEE PAGE 13

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2005
UBI ORTA UBERTAS
DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

The Yowl: Lovin’ it since last January
January 19, 2005
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Eating House rivalries lead to prank war

Once again, the annual Court Selection Night was affected by the long-standing and often violent rivalries between eating houses, leading
to mischief, tomfoolery, and high jinks. According to the Davidson College Police Department, the number of reported eggings, break-ins, vandalism
events, and other pranks increased two-fold since last year’s Court Selection night.

Said Patterson Court Council (PCC) president and Rusk member Jennifer Craftall ’06, “While the fierce rivalry between eating houses is
an old and storied Davidson tradition, it cannot devolve into mayhem as it did this past weekend. All Patterson Court
activities should be carried out with the utmost respect for the Code of Responsibility, Honor Code, and the wishes of
the PCC for a peaceful and fun night. I guess those bimbos in Warner didn’t get the message.”

Members of the administration had been worried about the escalating violence for several years and had made many changes to
try and tone down the rivalries. Said Patterson Court Advisor Molly Wilson, “We thought we had finally ended the cycle
of violence last year, when the reported infractions were at an all-time low. For one, the changed method of selecting
eating houses should help to end the segregation of different groups. Soon, the houses will lose their connotations, and women
in one house might even have friends in another. Also, the change in title of ‘Self Selection Night’ to ‘Court
Selection Night’ should help to stem the violence by decreasing the resentment of women who did not get into their
first choice house.”

Missy Rogers '08 disagreed that it would be possible to end the rivalries. “I am a third generation Connor, and
ever since I could talk, I knew that I hated Turner. My mother wouldn't let me have anything green in
my room growing up, and I remember her teaching me the old anti-Turner song, ‘Ya, ya, ya, ya, ya, Rusk
Court Selection cancelled due to condiment shortage.’”

While all of the other eating houses on Patterson Court were initiating their new freshmen by dumping various condiments and
dessert toppings on them Friday night, the members of Rusk were having to explain to their freshmen why they were
not being given the same loving treatment. As it turned out, just prior to the Friday night Court Selection festivities,
Rusk’s ample supply of condiments that had been reserved for their freshmen turned up empty. Unfortunately for members of the
Rusk House, these condiment bottles were empty upon arriving to the house Friday evening to prepare for the event. The
upperclassmen of Rusk began checking their supplies only to find that all of the bottles of chosen condiments were either
empty or missing, and, being that it was Friday night and the Food Lion was already closed for the night,
there was no time to run out and restock the supplies before the freshmen arrived at the house.

Ride back from airport extremely awkward

A five-hour flight delay this Sunday afternoon left one student stranded at Charlotte-Douglas Airport without a ride back to school.
Jon Ackerman ’08 had arranged for his hall counselor to pick him up when his flight arrived, but due to
the delay, his counselor was unable to wait for Ackerman. Within minutes, the freshman had secured a spot in Leland’s
backseat. While relieved that he wouldn’t have to spend the $50 in cash that his parents gave him to use
on a taxi, Ackerman admitted that he was prepared for a tense situation after a prolonged greeting between Turner Turner's
Court Selection shirts showed their intense hatred for their traditional rival, Connor House.

Your Davidsonian Honor Section

THIS WEEK’S NAYSAYERS:
Nathan Bradshaw
Alana Vaughn
Cameron Hardesty
James Wells

Editor: Brendan Parets

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editor at brparets@davidson.edu

Note: If you haven't been living in a cave for the past year, then you should know that the Yowl
is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.The bottles were clearly marked
‘DO NOT USE: For Self-Selection Purposes Only.’ I don’t know how $300 worth of condiments could have disappeared so fast!”
said Rusk president Kara Hastworn ’05. Lily Singler ’06, another Rusk member, explained, “The food really wasn’t too great this
week, and there were a ton of leftovers that needed to get eaten. Instead of just throwing all of it
out, we figured that it couldn’t hurt to use some of the condiments to spice up the food so that
it would at least be edible. Who would have thought that we could’ve used it all up in less than
a week.” Some of the condiments were even eaten without accompanying food. Said Marie Lee Masters ’07, “We just started
having our regular ketchup eating contest, but then we got a little bit carried away and started squirting ketchup into
each other’s mouths. That was fine, but it got really crazy as soon as the mustard came out. Eating whipped
cream with chocolate syrup for dessert made the whole thing magically delicious and a great college memory.”

Needless to say, the first-year Rusk inductees were disappointed. “I was really looking forward to getting crap dumped all over
me. It’s supposed to be tradition. All of the guys thought we were really lame and wouldn’t come near us
all night,” complained Rusk initiate Jennifer Mark ’08. “Instead, they kept going after Connor girls covered in chocolate.” Masters also
regretted the lack of traditional Court Selection events, “It’s too bad that the freshmen didn’t get to experience the same
sort of Court Selection night that we did. Condiments have never tasted so good.” She went on to explain how
Rusk plans on preventing a similar problem in the future, “Next year we're going to hide all of our supplies
in Warner until we’re ready to use them.”

Turner is for rejects. Turner, traditionally rivals of Connor, began the night in front of their house when a large
group of freshmen, led by the Turner upperclassmen, began a repeated chant of “Connor sucks! Connor sucks!” Connor members got
revenge when the Turner initiates went inside by burning “Connor” into the front grass and placing the camouflage Connor flag
on top of the Turner house. Turner made the next move by putting laxatives in Connor’s beer stash, while the
members of Connor kidnapped the Turner frog mascot, Hopper.

Meanwhile, the always vicious Rusk/Warner rivalry got off to a high-pitched start when Rusk set up a trip wire outside
of the Warner house, sending the freshmen flying when they set up for the run into the house. The Rusk
women then added Tabasco sauce to the Warner condiments, making the traditional condiment dumping more uncomfortable for the first years.
Warner struck back in creative fashion, replacing Rusk’s DJ with a Klezmer band. Said Betty Lennox ’06, “We were expecting
to have a hip-hop party, but then it turned into ‘Fiddler on the Roof.’” The Warner girls were also seen
on the roof of Rusk pouring an unidentified liquid, reportedly cow blood, on anyone trying to get into the party.
They also replaced Rusk’s famous hot dogs with vegetarian ones made of tofu.

As CoHo has no traditional rival, they engaged in guerrilla-style warfare against eating houses as well as fraternities. In one
prank, they tricked members of both Sigma Phi Epsilon and Phi Delta Theta. According to CoHo member Peter Nox ’06,
“We told a group of SigEps who were running from house to house in their underwear to go into the
Phi Delt house, because it was Warner. They got freaking pummeled. A couple of them actually had their noses broken.
Man, that really brought me back to the days when I was pledging Kappa Sig.”

According to members of the administration, over $50,000 of damage was done by sunrise of the next day. The money
is expected to be raised by a combination of increased PCC sticker fees and possible house or individual fines. But
some see the damage as more than monetary. Said Claire Thanes ’08, a new member of Connor, “I used to
be friends with some of the girls in Turner. Not anymore, because now I know that anyone like me who
lives and breathes Connor can never associate with those losers in Turner.”
