2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2005

Student’s study reveals benefits, drawbacks of meal plan

By LAUREN CONN
Staff Writer

Dave Albo ’06 recently studied the benefits and drawbacks of the meal plan through a cost analysis of each option. He found that with the normal eating habits of Davidson College students, the meal plan becomes more expensive on a per meal basis when you do not eat all of your meals. “The bottom line is you can’t be missing meals and still expect to have savings,” Albo said. Assistant Professor of Mathematics Dr. Tim Chartier monitored and approved Albo’s math model.

Albo’s study shows that with a 19-meal per week plan you lose money if you eat less than 17.4 meals a week, with the 16-meal per week plan you lose money if you eat less than 14.5 meals a week, and with the 14-meal per week plan you lose money if you eat less than 13.8 meals a week. For example, during the week of March 13-19, students used only 70 percent of their allotted meals. Only 66 percent of meals were eaten by students with the 16-meal per week plan. Students with the 10-meal per week plan only ate 77 percent of their allotted meals. Albo observed, “The cost per meal skyrockets if you are only eating 70 percent of your meals.”

As the prize-entry deadline to sign up for a meal plan approaches on April 29, students assess their food options for next fall. Bo Barley ’07 found himself not eating all his meals his freshman year. This year, he decided to pay cash or use his declining balance for meals on campus. “Not only was I missing meals, I also ate at the Union a fair amount and didn’t like the limited food choices and dollar amount restrictions,” Barley said. “I like the extra freedom of when and where I can eat with paying cash. Some of my friends are planning on using cash and declining balance next year.”

The 19-meal plan, which all freshmen are required to purchase, provides the basis for which all the other meal plans are determined. As an incentive to buy the 19-meal plan, auxiliary services offers a better price per meal compared to the other plans. Terry compares this decision to shopping at Sam’s Club. “When you buy products in large quantities, you are able to get a discount.”

First years are required to purchase the full 19-meal plan for two reasons according to Richard Terry, director of Auxiliary Services. “The freshmen meal plans provide the base of our Commons business and are essential from a budgetary standpoint,” Terry said. Terry said requiring first years to have the full meal plan is also “paternalistic.” “A freshman will never have to go hungry because they did not budget properly in his or her first year of college. The transition into college presents enough uncertainties and this way, freshmen do not have to decide whether or not to eat during the day,” Terry said. “The other meal plans are stair-stepped down from the savings with the 19-meal plan. Say you save 15 percent with the 19-meal plan.”

Briefly

Wanda Coleman Presentation
Poet Wanda Coleman will read from her work and present the Vereen Bell creative writing awards to students on April 14 at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Flute Choir Performance
The flute choir will perform on April 17 at 1 p.m. in Tyler-Tallman Hall.

Brass Recital
The Davidson College Brass Quintet and individual brass soloists will perform on April 17 at 9 p.m. in Tyler-Tallman Hall.

Concert Series
Clarinetist Allan Ware ’74 and pianist Jane Hawkins will perform on April 18 at 8 p.m. in Tyler-Tallman Hall. Tickets are $15 for adults and $10 for seniors.

Religion Lecture
Reverend Katie Cannon will speak on April 19 at 7 p.m.One meal plan, the next option would only offer a 10 percent savings on the door prices.” The cost per meal is calculated by subtracting bonus bucks from the meal plan cost, then dividing by the total number of meals per semester. The College continually compares its prices and plans with the systems of other schools to ensure efficient and fair options to students. Terry said that students are unable to use their meal plan at the Café for lunch since “the Union is very popular during the lunch hour already. If we were to add another 200 customers to the daily business, the Café would not be able to function efficiently.” The Café’s limited dinner menu helps speed up the ordering and processing of food due to the large amounts of people frequenting the Union for dinner. Terry said, “Anywhere from 175 to 250 people might eat at the Café between 6 and 8.” The amount of money a student is allotted to spend on a dinner at the Union Café represents the value of a dinner at Commons. Many items the Café sells are prepackaged and therefore more expensive. Because these items do not generate as much revenue for the college, the equivalent for a dinner at the Union is lower than at Commons. Terry has observed that many students in fact do not use all of their meals per week. Terry said, “We would like to see students make informed meal decisions, even if that means opting to use declining balance. A student should choose his meal plan to fit his lifestyle and eating habits,” Terry said. Students who purchase meals from Commons using their Cat Card declining balance pay less than those who use cash. For example, dinner would cost $8.95 if paid in cash and only $8.25 with declining balance. A North Carolina law exempts students from paying sales tax when eating meals at on-campus dining locations. Due to several logistical complications, the Union Café is unable to offer this reduced price to students. “The Senior 1 Meal Plan makes the most,” Albo said. “It is very likely you will use 1 meal during the week giving you full usage of your meal plan. Also, the average price per meal is the lowest of all the meal plans.” In other words, it is cheaper to eat once a week at Commons or the Union on the Senior 1 Meal Plan than it is to pay cash once a week for the same meal. The Student Government Association and SGA President Ryan Arnold ‘06 anticipate efforts to examine and critique the campus meal plans beginning next fall. Vice President of SGA Bridget Kane ’06 said, “Analyzing the meal plan will be a high point on the list of tasks for SGA next year.” Peter Carolla ’06 is the newly elected Auxiliary Services Committee Chair to SGA and will spearhead the investigation.

Percentage of Meals Eaten at Commons Out of Possible Meals (Week of March 13-19)
100% 90% 80% 70% 60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0%
Senior One 5 Meal 10 Meal 14 Meal 16 Meal 19 Meal Average
% Eaten % Missed
Data taken from Vail Commons for percentage of meals consumed according to a student’s meal plan for the week of March 13-19. Results show that on average, a student consumes only 70 percent of his meal plan meals per week.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

4/4 Richardson Dorm Property Theft
Student reported that unknown person(s) had removed a sub-woofer from the room at around midnight.

4/4 Little Dormitory Property Theft
Students reported that unknown person(s) removed $320 from a wallet and two TI-89 calculators from their room.

4/5 Belk Dormitory Malicious Intent
Student reported that unknown subject(s) placed a bucket filled with ice, vinegar, and what appeared to be an animal carcass above the door as a prank. Student was injured while attempting to move the items out of the way.