**The Davidsonian**

By Ariel Bugosh
Special Contributor

In this compelling non-fiction book, Caroline Alexander has created a masterpiece of investigative reporting, not just because of good research, but also because of good writing. Alexander also wrote “The Endurance” about the trials of Antarctic explorer Ernest Shackleton, so she is well equipped to talk about men in boats facing impossible voyages. Yet the story of “The Bounty” goes deeper than man versus nature; it also involves psychology, drama, and romance.

Captain Bligh set off in 1788 on a voyage to the South Pacific to buy breadfruit to grow in the Caribbean. He stayed in Tahiti for several months while his men enjoyed the relaxed island lifestyle and the uninhibited Tahitian women. When all the trees had been carefully stored, the ship set off again for England. Only a few days out, tensions grew to the breaking point when the captain accused some of stealing coconuts. That night, several sailors under the leadership of Fletcher Christian, a charismatic officer, dragged Captain Bligh out of bed and dumped him in a small, cramped boat with 18 crewmen. Bligh and his men miraculously survived a 48-day voyage. Christian and his men threw the trees into the sea and went back to Tahiti, where some remained and were later captured. The rest sailed to Pitcairn Island and created a short-lived utopia.

Most people who have read about the story of “The Bounty” have read the classic historical fiction trilogy by James Hall and Charles Nordhoff, published in the early 1930s. These books (“Mutiny on the Bounty,” “Men Against the Sea” and “Pitcairn Island”) portray Captain Bligh as an arrogant dictator and Fletcher Christian, the initiator of the mutiny, as a brilliant anti-hero. Alexander provides a different perspective of those events. She explores the history of many characters, including Bligh and Christian. She also provides a background on a relatively unknown character, Peter Heyward, a well-connected teenager who participated in the mutiny and was brought back to England for trial. She shows how Heyward’s connections strongly influenced the public image of the mutiny in an attempt to save him and salvage their reputation. In truth, Bligh was no worse than most captains of his day; the problem lay with Christian, in love with Tahiti, who betrayed his captain and sent him to almost certain doom.

Drawing on copious letters and ship’s logs, Alexander describes the origins of the voyage and the time in Tahiti. She uses several different accounts to recreate the scene of the mutiny and then describes the agonizing 3,600-mile journey of Bligh and his men in their open boat. The best part of the book, in my opinion, is the courtroom drama surrounding the trials of the captured mutineers. The characters of these long-dead figures come to life and the reader identifies with some of them. You can feel the force of personalities across the centuries of silence, the opposing pulls of justice and compassion.

I wish she’d spent a little more time on Pitcairn Island, the isle where the mutineers ultimately ended up with several Tahitians. They destroyed the ship and created a new life, but their paradise degenerated over racism and women. All but one of the mutineers died in the ensuing conflict. “Pitcairn Island” describes this fascinating tale (“Swiss Family Robinson” gone horribly wrong) in all of its adventure, although probably without much historical accuracy. Even so, Alexander describes what happened when Pitcairn Island was rediscovered, and that in itself is a telling story about commercialism.

The strength of this book lies in Caroline Alexander’s ability to tell a story. She moves beyond dry facts to show how truth can be, not just stranger, but better than fiction.

“The Bounty: The True Story of the Mutiny on the Bounty” by Caroline Alexander
$10.50 on Amazon.com
512 pages

---

By Elizabeth Burkhead
Arts & Living Editor

Davidson’s visual arts society, Ars Longa, has finally received funding from ATC. With its charter complete,It is ready to start planning events and activities. The organization is driven by student demand, particularly in the fields of photography and ceramics. Although Davidson does not offer classes in these disciplines, facilities exist on campus for their pursuit if there were enough student interest. The campus was first introduced to Ars Longa in December through “A Day Without Art,” which helped raise awareness of the way AIDS has affected the artistic community. Future events planned include workshops, gallery crawls, and a mural in the Union. In March, Kendall Buster, a sculptor whose work has been greatly influenced by her studies in microbiology, will visit. Despite the costs of the organization, it only received $250 from ATC, which means it will have to do a substantial amount of fundraising.

Hey Mister Postman ...
By Darcie Draupt
Special Contributor

As a last-minute favor to a friend, I volunteered to write this article about intracampus mail. So beware, it may not be full of witticisms or insights. I decided to start this article in what I realize is my characteristic self-aware line of attack because she gave me a topic and little time to write it. What do I write about intracampus mail? I’m an Outlook junkie, and even stray from using that archaic telephone system to communicate. Witness the fact that her plea for help transpired via Instant Messenger. Okay ... think intracampus mail ... think simple pleasures in life ... think pony express ... Oh, no ... running out of clichés ...

I love getting mail. The thing is, I don’t have funny anecdotes about receiving mail, nor do I frankly send intracampus mail that much. Most of my friends don’t have any good snail mail stories, either. Some of my thoughtful friends drop me a Hallmark from the bookstore every now and then, but mostly I look forward to the Pottery Barn Teen catalog to which I subscribe simply on the basis that they’ll send me colorful free mail with no personal or financial obligation. But when I do get letters, it is pretty exciting. Several months ago I received a ridiculous chain letter from my roommate, which, while it didn’t include “Send this to 5+ people or experience bad luck in love,” did involve sending a new pair of underwear to her sister—extremely girly for my tastes, but very funny to send. Last year, I received an anonymous note that included heartening things about me. What an unusual thing to receive in the mail! But for an awkward freshman girl getting settled into spring term, a complimentary letter was a wonderful thing to get.

I guess I have received a couple of nice things in my little steel 6078. And because I feel the post office gods operate on a correspondence karma basis, and because I think so many (non-felony) mischiefs could be pursued by just writing four numbers on a blank envelope, I’m resolved to utilize this free Davidson service in the future. I mean, who wouldn’t want to receive an anonymous letter from a secret crush? Hey, it seems juvenile and hopelessly romantic-comedy-esque, but wouldn’t you get a fuzzy feeling from knowing that someone cares even if they’re not following up? Under my unsentimental exterior, I like to think I house a penchant for mystery...

And even though some emailers are pretty keen on those inbox-clogging mass emails, doesn’t the “Reply to All-insult someone’s mother-Send-Annoy” process lack certain creativity? And actual humor? Imagine what you could do with a stack of envelopes and some random trinkets in your room. Mailing a cat-shaped eraser has never been less expensive, or less arbitrary. Now that I’ve done this paper-based favor for my friend, I think I can handle sending a 30-word note via intracampus mail. I just hope I can be a little less cliché and be more inventive for the thrill of a near-extinct mode of communication.

Questions? Comments? Address concerns to Campus Box 6078.

Like Arts? Like Living? Email elburkhead.