4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sub-free, continued from page 1

"You also have to leave the possibility that you could end up in Akers or Knox,” said Skelton. Marsicano insisted
that the second-year sub-free housing on first Belk is tentative, based on the RLO’s estimate of what the demand will
be. She said, “We looked at the number of students in the current freshman class who had requested substance-free housing...
We figured one-third to one-half of these students would choose it again.”

A variety of factors, such as ensuring single occupancy rooms are not all made sub-free and keeping the option of
either-gender halls open, led RLO to choose first Belk over other dorms. “If we have 120 people show up and
want substance-free, then we’ll add another substance-free hall. If we have fewer than 66, they will all live on first
Belk,” Marsicano said.

Proposals by RLO Task Force, SGA, CCRL gave variety of options

Vagt’s decision came after a series of proposals were made by the RLO Task Force, SGA, and CCRL. Neither the
SGA’s proposal nor the recommendations by the CCRL, which met on Thursday, Feb. 24 on the issue, called for the
second-year sub-free option. The Task Force was composed of seven students, Marsicano, and Shandley. Over a five-month period, the Committee
conducted focus groups and a campus-wide survey to learn from student experiences and assess attitudes towards the housing option. After
considering the legitimate concerns raised, the Committee proposed discontinuation of upperclassmen sub-free and dispersal of sub-free halls for first-year students
in dorms.

The SGA adopted a strikingly different proposal on Thursday, Feb. 17, based on a resolution by Skelton and Junior Class
President Jack Hubbard. In addition to calling for an end to upperclassmen options, the body recommended sub-free rooms dispersed around
campus after a year transition period whereby freshmen would live on sub-free halls. The SGA’s proposal was approved by a
vote of 21-4-1.

On Feb. 24, CCRL took a look at the options proposed by the SGA and the Task Force. The committee,
which serves as an advisory group to the President on issues of campus and religious life, voted in favor of
the Task Force’s report with a vote of 11-3. Shandley, the chair of CCRL, said the Committee considered the impact
sub-free housing has on students with particular religious, cultural, or personal concerns. “There is no doubt that a heavy proportion
of students of color are in substance-free housing,” he said.

Assistant Professor of Economics Fred Smith, a faculty-elected member of CCRL, agreed, noting the impact a discontinuation could have on
the minority applicant pool. Smith admitted that there is no hard evidence of this relationship between minority applicants choosing Davidson
and the option of sub-free housing. “The only data I have is that more than 50 percent of African-American students
request sub-free housing and 60 percent of Asian-Americans do as well... At this point, we can’t afford to lose [these
applicants],” he said. Smith sat in as chair in place of Shandley for CCRL’s sub-free discussion, due to Shandley’s role
in the Task Force.

Student reaction to policy change

To many students involved in this policy review, Vagt’s decision to continue second-year sub-free came as a surprise. “I thought
it was an excellent decision... since most of it went according to what our committee recommended,” said Michael Flake ’06,
a member of the RLO Task Force. “I was a little surprised sophomore sub-free was continued. But I think that
was an issue of secondary importance to most people involved. The debate got down to whether or not we should
have substance-free as a first-year issue.”

Flake also felt Vagt’s decision reflected the College’s desire to expand choices for students rather than restrict them. “Davidson is
willing to ask ‘what are your needs and how can we meet them,’” he said. Flake remained skeptical of the
short-term effect of the policy change on increasing interaction between sub-free and non-sub-free students. “I think we’ll see more [interaction]
than we do now,” he said. “But it is by no means the perfect solution, because you cannot institute a
perfect solution... Ultimately that is the decision of people, not of any program or policy.”

Skelton and Hubbard, the two responsible for the SGA’s proposal, were frustrated with Vagt’s decision and the bureaucratic process they
encountered along the way. Hubbard said, “I was disappointed [Vagt] didn’t go further. Essentially we are left with the same
exact system. We are leaving a Band-Aid on an open wound.” He continued, “I think SGA, an elected representative body,
gave nearly unanimous support [to the SGA resolution]. Our goal was to send a strong message. I don’t think that
got heard. Unfortunately, the school has decided to appease us with this compromise that leaves almost the same system with
the same problems in place.”

Skelton added, “I was pleased with the willingness of the administration to do a review. The Dean of Students office
was initially more receptive than I thought... It was difficult, however, with the final stages of the Davidson bureaucracy.”

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2005

Skelton called for some reevaluation of student representation in SGA and CCRL, asserting that CCRL “eliminates the possibility of having
significant interaction between the SGA and faculty.” In particular, Hubbard expressed disappointment in the lack of student attendance at the
CCRL meeting. Of the 13 students in CCRL, only seven were present. “I think those students let their constituents down,”
he said. “There is a failure of those students to recognize and respect the power that they have been given.”

Despite his disappointment with the final decision, Skelton was pleased with the overall process. “It has gotten people talking about
an issue that...is very important... It’s been healthy for the school. I hope that on matters such as this we
continue this level of discourse. This should not be the end of the sub-free discussion.”

CCRL and SGA: which represents students?

By Emily Kotaa
Senior Staff Writer

Recent debate on college matters has resulted in questions regarding the dynamics between the Council on Campus and Religious Life
(CCRL) in relation to SGA as the student voice. According to the College Constitution, the function of CCRL is to
advise the President “in all matters affecting the quality of campus life.” CCRL meets “at least twice each academic year...
with the President... to give advice and recommendations pertaining to campus life.” The Council is comprised of seven faculty members,
several administrators whose positions relate to student life, and 13 students. Of the 13 students, four are appointed by SGA,
four are elected, and the remaining include the SGA President and Vice-President, Patterson Court Council President, Union Board President, and
United Community Action President.

Dean of Students Tom Shandley, the chair of CCRL, said, “CCRL is one of the few formal means where students,
faculty, and staff can come together on matters of student life.” He is quick to note that the Council “does
not have any legislative or decision-making powers.”

Assistant Professor of Economics Fred Smith, a member of CCRL, said the mandate for the Council is clear. “There is
no ambiguity about what its role is. We simply discuss issues that are important to campus and religious life. Items
can be brought to the agenda because the President is concerned about them, faculty members express concerns, or students voice
concerns,” said Smith.

Current tension between CCRL and SGA resulted from differing proposals regarding the substance-free housing debate. Kathleen Tanner ’05, an appointed
member of CCRL, said, “Our last meeting discussed the substance-free policy and living arrangements dealing with sub-free. I feel that
it is vital to have student representatives on such a committee, as oftentimes what faculty perceive as a non-issue is
at the crux of the issue from the vantage point of a student.”

Junior Class President Jack Hubbard, who has brought a resolution on cable television in dorms and the SGA’s proposal on
sub-free housing to the Council, said the representation of students in both SGA and CCRL can be counterproductive. He said
that all students on CCRL should be appointed by SGA so that “SGA can guarantee there is a unified, or
partially unified, student voice.” Hubbard has very little trust in the body as it stands now. “CCRL is a minefield
for student opinion,” he said. “Student opinion almost always gets blown out of the water when it goes to CCRL,
because there are a lot of people on there that are not at all receptive to student opinion.”

Sophomore Class President Mac Skelton said a major problem is that students are unaware of CCRL’s power. “Nobody has a
clue how influential CCRL is. When it comes to making recommendations to the President, we need to make clear to
everybody that CCRL is SGA number two,” he said.

Shandley pointed out the enormous influence SGA already has in CCRL, with four SGA-appointed students and the SGA President and
Vice-President sitting on the Council. Shandley considered CCRL “not superior but different in function. There is nothing that prevents the
SGA from submitting their recommendations on matters directly to the President.” “SGA’s charge is not to advise the President on
matters of campus and religious life. CCRL’s is,” he noted. “Both are constitutional bodies of the College and play critical
roles in the governance of the institution, but their purposes, as defined by the College Constitution, are basically different.”

In addition to the difference in mandates, Dr. Smith alluded to the benefits of having both the long-term perspective of
faculty members and the four-year perspective of students. He said, “The students make this institution, there is no question about
that. But faculty, president, and staff are the guardians of this trust. [Students] have a great perspective, but it is
by nature a myopic one... There is no reason why [students] should consider the 10 to 12 year perspective.”

Former SGA President Katharine Hubbard ’05 found it difficult “to say yes or no about CCRL’s superiority to SGA because
though it occasionally votes on SGA initiatives, it also looks at other campus issues that do not come from SGA.”
In some instances, such as the proposal for cable, SGA and CCRL were in agreement. She considered that, in this
case, “CCRL backing SGA’s cable resolution really helped.” On the other hand, she said, “I can see how this does
usurp the power of SGA, but it is always a choice for SGA to go through CCRL and not a
mandate by any means.”

Current SGA President Ryan Arnold ’06 agreed. “SGA could have taken [the current sub-free housing policy] straight to President Vagt’s
desk. But we chose to take it to CCRL because then we would have more support.” In fact, Skelton did
meet with Vagt for 30 minutes after the CCRL decision to present the SGA proposal unfiltered and to raise his
concerns about the process. Vagt said that SGA and CCRL have “very, very different functions... I think to look at
this process as competing interests is inaccurate.” He noted that SGA always has the right to come to him and
say, “here is what we think about this.”

Peninsula China Bistro
704.987.2299
Each entree a masterpiece.
Fine Wines • Full Bar
Contemporary
Reservations Accepted • Carryout
FREE DELIVERY (min $20)
Friendly Atmosphere

LUNCH HOURS
Mon-Thurs 11:30-3:00
Fri & Sat 11:30-3:00
Sun 12:00-3:00

DINNER HOURS
