THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 2005 17

A look ahead to 2005-06: eye on the ’Cats
By WALKER SAIIK
Senior Staff Writer

We’re finishing up another year of Davidson College athletics, and we’ve had our fair share of good stories. For starters,
our men’s and women’s basketball teams had phenomenal seasons with the men’s team making it all the way to an
emotional NIT match-up at Maryland. In addition, both soccer squads ended play with some postseason excitement, and the golf team
pulled out a historic performance at SoCon two weeks ago. Now it’s time to look to next year, so here
are a few teams worth following:

Fall:
The soccer teams ought to return in full force in the newly-built Richardson Stadium. The men needed a late-season push
last year to prove their ability, but they fought tough against a disappointing season all the way to the SoCon
championship. Despite a 1-0 OT loss to Charleston, the come-back says wonders for their character and potential. They’ll be losing
a couple of their big defensive guns, though, most notably team MVP Joey Bass ’05 and goal-keeper Bart Creasman ’05.
On defense, John Latting ’06 has been filling bigger shoes every year, and hopefully the other two goal-keepers on the
roster can step up. The women will also be losing their stud goalie Sarah Hobart ’05, in addition to co-captain
midfielder Stephanie Bouts ’05. Nevertheless, the team improved vastly in their first season under new head coach Greg Ashton, so
look for even more to come.

It'll be interesting to see if football can come out of its two-year slump and post a winning season. The
loss of Brenden Dete ’05 and John Leverett ’05, Davidson’s all-time leader in rushing, will certainly be felt by the
team, and without Damion White ’05, one of the underclassmen quarterbacks is going to need to step up.

from Tennis, page 20
only one more doubles win to secure the early lead. Patterson and Linville failed to come through, as they fell
behind early and dropped their first conference doubles match of the season 8-4 at number two. Kelly and Meghan Fillnow
played hard against their opponents at number one, but they were unable to hold serve at 5-5 and eventually fell
8-5. Down 1-0, Davidson needed to win four of the six singles matches. After they took the first set in
four of the six matches, there was hope for the team and the fans who cheered wildly after each crucial
point in an effort to will the team to victory. “The atmosphere was unbelievable; I’ve never seen anything like that,“
said Kigel. “All the parents and friends in the crowd were really supportive.”

The Wildcats fell further behind after Whelan lost 6-2, 6-1 at number six, and Patterson fell 6-2, 6-4 at number
two. With Linville up a set at number three and Kelly and Meghan Fillnow just beginning the third sets of
their matches at one and four, Levitt’s match became crucial. After she easily won the first set and jumped to
an early second set lead at number five, Levitt could not maintain her momentum. She dropped the second set and
fell behind early in the third. Despite a valiant effort, Levitt could not complete a third set comeback against her
tough opponent, losing 2-6, 6-3, 6-1. Having clinched the match, the Furman players stormed the court and the remaining matches
were left unfinished.

Winter:
What’s winter at Davidson without basketball? Arguably the most exciting time of the year athletically, next season ought to bring
the best basketball teams we’ve had in a long time. On the men’s side, the loss of Logan Kosmalski ’05
and Conor Grace ’05 will certainly leave a void in the big-man department, but Ian Johnson ’06 has been ready
to start for a long time now, and either Boris Meno ’07 or Thomas Sander ’07 will take on a
large increase in minutes. For the women, they lose only one senior this year unlike their loss of five in
2004. With head coach Annette Watts calling the shots, this team ought to make another strong run in the Southern
Conference Tourney.

Spring:
Women’s tennis has quietly put up one of the best athletic performances in 2005. Ending with a 20-6 record, they
played well enough to earn a national ranking and due respect in a very competitive Southern Conference. Unfortunately, their graduating
class is perhaps the best in Davidson history, including Megan Fillnow, Kelly Fillnow, and Meggie Patterson.It’s yet to be seen
if they can post the same results without them. On a positive note, their team MVP Kelsey Linville ’08 has
three more years to excel, and Kim Whelan ’08 is also up for the challenge, so look for tennis’s continued
success. While baseball’s current 9-12 SoCon record is nowhere near superior, the team has shown significant improvement offensively this year.
Led by third baseman Jay Heafner ’06, the offense has opened some eyes around the SoCon, and Heafner added some
publicity to the team by his appearance on the Baseball America webpage. If the pitching can find the same improvement
next year, this team could start making noise. So go Frolic this weekend, take your exams, enjoy your summer, and
come back to Davidson ready to cheer on your ’Cats.

The ’Cats accepted the second place trophy, a symbol of all the accomplishments they achieved this season. “There is obviously
some disappointment, but we reached several landmarks this season,” said Kigel. “We beat Charleston for the first time ever, we
had our first 20-win season and we got nationally-ranked for the first time in several years.” Additionally, several Wildcats were
honored individually for their outstanding accomplishments. Linville, undefeated in the conference in singles and doubles in the regular season, was
named conference freshman of the year. She was also presented with the Helen De Vane Carnegie Award at the recent
athletics banquet as the college’s most outstanding freshman athlete. Kelly Fillnow received first team all-SoCon honors, while Linville and Meghan
Fillnow made the second team in singles. In doubles, the Kelly/Meghan Fillnow and Patterson/Linville doubles teams each were named to
the second team. Patterson was honored also for her outstanding dedication to intercollegiate athletics with the Susan K. Roberts Award
at the Davidson athletics banquet. Sunday’s match was the finale for the five seniors on the team. Kelly Fillnow, Meghan
Fillnow, Patterson, Borkowski, and Kelly Meadors contributed to 68 victories, leaving their mark on the team with memories of a
20-6 record and a final ranking No. 66 in the nation.

In its second-to-last appearance, lacrosse hands the game to No. 20 William and Mary. Lacrosse losing streak reaches six vs.
W & M.

By KATHERINE SWAIN
Staff Writer

Lacrosse played its second-to-last game of the season last Sunday in Williamsburg, VA, against No. 20 William and Mary. The
Wildcats lost 20-3, with lone goals scored by sister duo Whitney Diefendorf ’05 and Emily Diefendorf ’08. William and Mary
outshot the ’Cats 44-11 for the day, scooped up 37 groundballs to Davidson’s 26, and controlled 16 of 25 face-offs.
The Tribe took an early lead, scoring six goals in the first five minutes of play. Whitney Diefendorf scored the
first Davidson goal of the game at 23:58 off a pass from Lindsay Frank ’05. The opposition notched two more
less than a minute later to extend their lead to 9-1. Emily Diefendorf then scored off a pass from midfielder
Emily Palmer ’08 for Davidson’s last goal of the first half. The Tribe answered with an offensive attack, and five
different Tribe members scored in the last ten minutes of the first half. At the start of the second period,
William and Mary had two additional goals in the first four minutes. The Diefendorfs connected for the last goal for
the Wildcats, when Emily scored off a pass from Whitney at the 24:40 mark. “It was really awesome being able
to play on attack with my sister,” said Emily Diefendorf. “We finally had a ‘Dief’ to ‘Dief’ pass and scored
off it. I am really familiar with Whit’s style of play, so when we get to play together it adds
to our effectiveness out on the field.” For the next 10 minutes there was no scoring, but the Tribe added
four more goals to end the game, the last with only 10 seconds on the clock. Goalkeeper Laura Johnson ’08
recorded 11 saves against William and Mary, picked up six ground balls, and caused two turnovers. Although the team allowed
only six goals in the second half compared to the fourteen of the first half, the game proved that the
Wildcats’ slump is not over yet. With only one game left, recovery may have to wait until next season. The
Wildcats finish regular season away against Longwood on Thursday, April 28, at 7 p.m.
