12 THE DAVIDSONIAN | For you sports fans...

WILSON’S PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat Game of the Week
Men’s Basketball
* Slice vs. UT-Chattanooga
Monday, 7:00, Belk Arena

The Wildcats have not yet played the strength of the North Division, including the 6-1 Mocs. Davidson and Chattanooga are ranked 21st and 22nd in the Mid-Major Top 25 poll, and this game may be a preview of a March match-up in the SoCon championship when an NCAA tournament berth is on the line. Unfortunately, that match-up would be played in Chattanooga, site of this year’s SoCon tournament, but the Wildcats have a chance to show they are the class of the SoCon with their lone game against the Mocs in the regular season.

Outside the Den
NBA Basketball
Sacramento vs. San Antonio
Thursday, 9:30

The Spurs have been a model of consistency in the Western Conference over the last few years, and Tim Duncan continues to make his case as one of the best players in the game this year in leading the Spurs to a 34-10 record.

SPORTS

For a few minutes on Nov. 22, Davidson was not the small-town liberal arts school that defines itself by the annual U.S. News and World Report ranking. The Wildcats trailed reigning ACC champion Duke by just four points with 5:39 to play after trailing by more than 20 points in the second half, and had the ball with a chance to close the lead even further. A turnover and five quick points by Duke’s Daniel Ewing ended the dream of an upset that day, but the thousands of Wildcat fans in Charlotte Coliseum all believed, however briefly, that we had a chance to take down the Devils to move to 2-0 on the year. Would we receive votes in the AP Top 25 poll? With a few more wins, could we have been ranked?

In his office at Davidson, head coach Bob McKillop has a framed cover of the 1968 Sports Illustrated college basketball preview issue that features UNC’s Charlie Scott, Kentucky’s Mike Casey and Davidson’s Mike Maloy ’70. Inside, Davidson is featured in the Top 20 of the year’s poll. McKillop keeps the framed magazine to remind him of what the Davidson program once was, and what he wants it to again be.

When McKillop took over the Wildcat program in 1989, the Wildcats were far from the Southern Conference power of the 60s and 70s that was a staple in the NCAA tournament and was once ranked No. 1 by SI. Instead, Davidson was mired in a stretch of 15 seasons in which it registered a .387 winning percentage and had four different head coaches.

Who needs time travel when

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Columnist

For Christmas my brothers gave me the first season of “The O.C.” on DVD and a Kelly Clarkson poster, my mother handed me several dress shirts and my father furnished me with a brand new putter. All the gifts seem to indicate, in some bizarre way, what my family wants me to become: a teenage girl, a mature young man or a decent golfer, respectively. At the current time, all seem highly unlikely.

Santa, however, had an entirely different plan, and one that seems all the more feasible. Indeed, resting beneath our uniquely-ornamented tree was a peculiar rectangular box from Mr. and Mrs. Claus, the contents of which will surely change my life forever.

For months—nay, years—now, my friends have been lauding TiVo as the greatest technological breakthrough since Sega Genesis (far and away the best gaming system ever created). They’d brag about benefits like watching an entire series of “24” over the course of a single day, which to me makes about as much sense as vegetarianism. Still, the option is there. I'd visit them at school and they’d have the “Rick James” episode of “The Chapelle Show” ready for viewing, or any number of “Iron Chef” competitions waiting for a repeat showing. Such shows belong in the collegiate experience as much as cheap beer, black lights and lame theme parties that no one will dress up for anyway.

Never an avid television watcher—unlike my roommate, who finds great satisfaction watching shows like “Date My Mom”—I never really thought TiVo necessary. However, at Davidson I consistently find myself unavoidably detained during prime-time, preventing me from following any decent television series. What’s worse, I am

McKillop struggled initially at Davidson, going just 31-54 in his first three years. Since then, he has restored the Davidson program to an elite mid-major level, going 135-61 in Southern Conference play and twice taking his teams to the NCAA tournament. Tonight, he is poised to break former UT-Chattanooga coach Mack McCarthy’s record of all-time conference victories at 135. His success at Davidson, however, proves just how much McKillop means to this college. It’s hard enough to be a top mid-major program in today’s college landscape where the nation’s top high school players are wooed to the bigger programs that play on ESPN in front of thousands of fans on a nightly basis. But atDavidson, McKillop has faced an even larger uphill battle. It seems cliché to spout off Davidson’s academic reputation, and how hard it makes for Davidson to compete at a high Division I level in athletics, but the academic rigors of Davidson are a difficult reality for a team that looks to compete with the nation’s best. Unlike other schools, the Davidson admission staff turns down potential basketball recruits, and we can’t even recruit certain players from the start because it is clear that they will not be able to handle the workload of both basketball and academics at Davidson. Where other top schools like Duke and North Carolina supply their players with ample support, there are no “tutors” or easy classes here at Davidson. It takes a special student-athlete to even be considered for a scholarship here, making it all the more difficult to compete with other schools that don’t face the same constraints.

But instead of fighting the academic rigors that Davidson creates, McKillop has embraced the high standards and made success both on and off the court an integral part of the basketball program. Every senior that has played for him during his tenure at Davidson has graduated from the college, all 51 of them. On the other hand, in 2001, the graduation rate for Division I men’s basketball was just 40 percent. In this past year’s NCAA tournament, 16 teams in the 65-team field had graduation rates less than 25 percent, and only four teams that advanced to the Sweet Sixteen had rates over 50 percent.

McKillop could have used Davidson as a stepping stone, which is more the norm than the exception when there is an opportunity for advancement in the coaching ranks. In the Southern Conference alone, for example, high-profile coaches like Jeff Lebo, Buzz Peterson, and even our own Lefty Driesell have used their positions as a springboard to jobs at ACC and SEC schools where resources and attention are more easily found. And given the difficulty that is inherent in winning at tiny Davidson College, not many would have blamed McKillop for moving on either. But instead of jumping at the next opportunity to move up the coaching ladder, McKillop planted himself in Davidson for the long haul. I was terrified last year when rumors began to float that St. John’s might look to see McCrory, page 15.

And so, after three-and-a-half years of sacrificing such pleasures in order to read, say, Nathaniel Hawthorne’s 600-page biography—a book about a guy writing more books—or attend mandatory viewings of “Queer Eye for the Straight Guy,” it was time for a change. I didn’t know what the hell TiVo even stood for, but I had to have it. TiVo essentially violates the space-time continuum. You can pause live television, then fast-forward it, then rewind it, then do it all over again, like one of those lab rats pressing a button for instant pleasure. That means you could have watched Britney and Madonna perpetually make out, or constantly re-examine Philadelphia defensive end Jerome McDougal’s massive/hilarious hit on Eli Manning, because everyone knows the rookie quarterback did nothing else worth watching all season anyway. (And, by the way, Eli: New York over San Diego? On what level does that make sense? You’re 22 and athletic, not 48 and a struggling artist.)

According to the product description, “Benefits of TiVo service include, but are not limited to, Season Pass (TiVo automatically finds and records every episode of a series all season long, even if the network schedules changes) and WishList (TiVo finds and records programs that feature your favorite actor, director, team, or even topic).” It’s sort of like having a pledge sit in front of your T.V. all day and record whatever you want. Except with TiVo, you don’t have to deal with freshmen kissing your ass and generally being, well, freshmen. I’ve currently got Macauley Culkin—his early work ranks up there with some of the finest acting of our time—and anything involving women’s boxing on my WishList. They say what you ‘TiVo’ reflects your personality. Not afraid to tell you that.

So what does this have to do with sports? Everything. Nothing. That’s the beauty of TiVo: teenie-boppers, sports junkies, and every other possible stereotype can peacefully coexist, like one big, happy, Real World—never mind that my three roommates and I are less diverse than Hanson. Of course, the ability to pause any game to visit the john, grab a drink, pay the delivery guy—whatever—is a major plus. For me, though, the 15 minutes it takes to watch a complete SportsCenter with TiVo beats just about anything else I can do in 15 minutes—usually because something that enjoyable never lasts more than five. What? Never been on a roller coaster?