16 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2005

Greensboro donates six INTs to stadium dedication

By BRENT McCormick
Staff Writer

The home opener in Richardson Stadium provided a great atmosphere for the Cats to showcase their talents last Saturday night.
In front of over 4,700 fans, many of them alumni, Davidson controlled Greensboro College all night long en route to
a 32-7 victory. The Wildcats were led by Jonathan Hubbard ’07 on the ground, Ryan Alexander ’08 through the air,
and, most impressively, a big play defense that forced a school-record-breaking six interceptions.

The commanding performance began right away as Davidson received the opening kickoff. Setting the tone for the night, the Cats
used a combination of run and pass to move the ball 71 yards on the opening drive that culminated with
a one-yard touchdown plunge by Hubbard. On Greensboro’s following possession, the Wildcat defense forced a three-and-out and a punt that
resulted in good field position on the Davidson 43. The Cats picked up right where they left off on the
previous drive and took the ball 57 yards for a score. Alexander took the snap under center and snuck one
yard for Davidson’s second touchdown. The Cats, who have converted to the muddle huddle for extra point tries, pulled out
a little trickery on the extra point attempt. Instead of shifting over the kicker and the offensive line, cornerback Yeatts
Anderson ’06 called his own number and ran the option into the end zone to convert the two-point try. The
Cats led 15-0 at halftime.

The second half opened up much like the first for the Davidson defense and cornerback Patrick FitzGerald ’08. On a
third and ten, FitzGerald out-leapt the Greensboro receiver to grab his third interception of the day. This interception followed two
picks in the second quarter.

Jonathan Hubbard ’07 rushed for 118 yards on 19 carries in Saturday’s 32-7 win. FitzGerald completed his night with three
interceptions, one pass breakup, and two solo tackles. His play was good enough for him to garner Pioneer League Defensive
Player of the Week honors. FitzGerald’s third pick, again, gave Davidson imposing field position and the Cats took advantage. On
a ten-play drive, Davidson went to work on the ground game. Of the ten plays, nine were rushes as Davidson’s
offensive line physically controlled the line of scrimmage and opened up big holes for running backs Hubbard and Chad Barnes
’09. Hubbard, who carried the ball 19 times, left the game early with a hand injury in the third quarter
but still managed to record his first 100-yard rushing game of his career. Following Hubbard’s exit, the running load was
handed to Barnes who capped off the 74-yard drive with a one-yard touchdown run. With Davidson now up 22-0 on
the Pride, Greensboro tried to go to the air to rally.

Photo by Lauren Massey

See Football, page 13

Wildcats’ winning streak ended at Liberty

Ashton ’08 allowed five goals this week in three games

Player of the Week
Patrick FitzGerald ’08
Football
Hometown: Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Major: Undeclared

FitzGerald recorded three of the Cats' six interceptions in the football team’s home-opening 32-7 win vs. Greensboro College. For his
efforts, he was selected as the Pioneer Football League’s Defensive Player of the Week.

By BRENT McCormick
Staff Writer

Coming off two consecutive game-winning goals, Matt Allen ’06 and the No. 23 ranked...Wildcats walked into the Coca-Cola/adidas Kickoff Classic
this weekend looking to extend their unbeaten streak to four games. The ’Cats squad, fresh off a convincing home victory
against UNC-Wilmington, made their way to Maryland with a good offense and an undefeated record to match. Play began on
Saturday against Navy. After 81 minutes of a hard-fought, scoreless game, a midshipmen forward put the ball in the Wildcat
net for the first goal of the game. Five minutes later, Tom Lavan ’08 found a long throw by Aaron
West ’08 and tied the score with his first goal as a Wildcat. The scoreboard read 1-1 as the time
ran out in regulation. Although some of his previous attempts missed the target, Allen was finally able to connect. With
one second left in the first overtime, Allen scored for Davidson off of a corner kick, blasting it past the
goalkeeper to lift the ’Cats over Navy 2-1. The win put Davidson at 3-0 on the season, a feat that
has not been accomplished since the Wildcats began their 1980 campaign with six consecutive wins.

On Sunday, Davidson took to the field against a UMBC squad looking to extend its home unbeaten streak to 22
consecutive games. The Retrievers commenced the scoring 30 minutes into the first half, when an opposing player sent a shot
past goalkeeper Ben Ashton ’08 from 30 yards out. Davidson seemed to have gained control midway through the game, as
Allen tied the contest 1-1 with a close-range shot. It was his third goal in as many games, two of
which were game-winners. Cass Baltz ’07, who scored for the win in Davidson’s home opener against Charlotte, gave the ’Cats
their first lead with his second score of the season 19 minutes later. However, a late UMBC goal tied the
game, extending the UMBC home unbeaten streak to 22 (15-0-7) consecutive games after a double overtime tie. The Retrievers went
on to win the tournament with a win and a tie.

Davidson failed to capitalize on UMBC, who played most of the game one man down after one of its midfielders
was awarded a red card at 25:31. Though the ’Cats outshot UMBC 14-10, they could not finish. Mac Wilkie ’07
said that although the tie was “disappointing,” Tuesday’s game against Campbell University will hopefully get them back to their winning
ways. Davidson remains unbeaten this season (3-0-1), and despite falling one spot to No. 23 in the rankings, has single-digit
numbers in their sights. With a 6 p.m. start in Campbell, Davidson continued its five-game string of away matches this
Tuesday.

On Tuesday night in Buies Creek, NC, Campbell University ended men’s soccer undefeated record with a 2-1 decision. The Fighting
Camels came out strong to score the first goal 20 minutes into the game. Repeated shots in the first half
by Cass Baltz ’07 and Lavan were stopped by Campbell’s goalkeeper. After 28 minutes, the Fighting Camels put the ball
in.

See Soccer, page 15

PLAY OF THE WEEK | Matt Allen’s game-winning goal
