10 PERSPECTIVES THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2005

Staff Editorial

Repeal obsolete social policy

Patterson Court has seen a drastic change in its weekday social policy with the new application of a previously sensible
“two-party rule.” Before last summer, this rule restricted the number of large, weekend-style parties during the school week to two
for all Court houses combined. With last summer’s revisions to the alcohol policy, the language of the “two-party rule” now
applies to small, informal, and often unplanned weekday gatherings, frequently called impromptus. There are words to describe this policy. Here
we elaborate on just a few: Unfair. Paternalistic. Discriminatory. Self-defeating. Potentially dangerous.

Instead of preventing an abundance of large-scale parties that could detract from the Davidson academic experience, this policy now bans
more than two laid-back social gatherings. The rule effectively shuts down the Court between weekends. And if this policy truly
reflects faculty objections to Court parties, then it smacks of paternalism. Ostensibly, it protects the purpose of a college by
not allowing late-night parties and noise to interfere with the academic process. In reality, it interferes with the broader purpose
of a college to provide an environment for young people to mature and to learn personal responsibility.

The rule also discriminates against Patterson Court houses and their members. Independent students and other social organizations on campus can
freely register and host parties at senior apartments. The college does not restrict—and should not—the number of lectures, athletic events,
service events, Union-sponsored concerts, or any other kind of activity on this campus that rob students of precious hours in
the library. Low-key Patterson Court socializing should be similarly exempt.

Court houses are not often enough recognized for what they add to Davidson through community service, both in terms of
events and personal involvement. The houses are also terrific outlets to gain experience in leadership roles on campus. Weekday socializing
is for reinforcing those links of friendship that make the service and leadership side-effects possible.

The policy is self-defeating because it confines the Court’s social activities to weekend parties, precisely those that generate negative perceptions
of the Court and concerns about safety. Related to safety, the policy has already encouraged off-campus parties during the week.
These carry with them risks of unsafe levels of alcohol consumption and possibly drunk driving.

Any student or group may ask President Vagt for changes to the Alcohol Policy between two-year review periods. Patterson Court
leaders have initiated this process. In particular, four fraternity presidents have submitted a letter expressing their displeasure. We add our
voice to theirs. Now is not the time for compromise. The outcome should not be a new “target number” of
gatherings during the week. Instead, this unnecessary rule should be wholly repealed. The Davidsonian formally requests a review of this
rule.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel

Managing Editor
Mike Giglio

News Editors
Kate Gillespie, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia

Perspectives Editors
Halley Aelion & Matt Bandyk

Arts & Living Editors
Jarrod Blue & Reid Wildman

Yowl Editors
Bobby Kenner & Jeff Yeakel

Sports Editors
Monica Jamouneau & Pierce Trumbo

Photography Editor
Jessica Hodge

Business Manager
Nick Horton

Advertising & Circulation Managers
Sarah Bogue & Janelle Milanes

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Stressful environment may drive need for counseling

I would like to write to express an opinion on “Counseling Center usage increases” (News, Nov. 9). It read, “Davidson
now has one of the highest counseling center participation rates in the country.” Maybe it is just me, but does
anyone else find this statistic to be the least bit disturbing? Maybe it is just that more students are arriving
with pre-existing conditions, or that Davidson students are not afraid of getting help. But to me it seems that maybe
there is a more deeply-rooted problem that no one seems to want to address here.

At what point does Davidson College need to take an introspective look at a problem that exists? I do not
mean to say that visiting the counseling center is an inherently bad environment where students find that nothing seems to
be good enough anymore for professors; an environment that at times seems like the emphasis is solely on your academic
performance, and your other gifts seem to be minimized or “secondary” to your academic growth. Therefore students are driven into
the more interior regions of their soul and thus look towards other forms of comfort.

If Davidson’s purpose is “to assist students in developing humane instincts and disciplined and creative minds for lives of leadership
and service,” then why not give students time to explore their potential in areas other than the classroom, or some
recognition that not all students’ gifts are academics? I do not want this to seem like I think all of
Davidson is horrible. If it were, I would not have stayed until now. I just want to see if the
administration is at all concerned with this matter.

A liberal view of liberal education

Rarely do I read a Joseph Adams diatribe (“A college that has abandoned its cause,” Nov. 9) without shaking my
fist in (gentle) animosity, but, as a liberal, I must concur with Adams that a liberal arts education should open
our eyes to different views. One shouldRelish in the opportunity to hear the views of another in order to help
you better understand your own! Go see the Kennedys, the Spellings, and the Edelmans. Heck, watch Fox News on occasion
(if not for a simple chuckle). Thank you, Joseph, for reminding us of the true meaning of “liberal.”

Steven Gentile ’06

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor. Please e-mail submissions of less than 250 words to davidsonian@davidson.edu by Sunday night.
We reserve the right to edit for content, brevity, and grammar.

Campus freedom of speech at risk?

Davidson has experienced much evolution throughout its history, such as the admission of women to the student body and the
transition from a highly-religious to a more secular institution. Throughout all these changes, however, the school has maintained a commitment
to the principle set forth in its motto, “Let Learning Be Cherished Where Liberty Has Arisen.” According to this motto,
the students and faculty must first enjoy liberty if the college is to be a proper place of learning. Freedom
to speak is arguably the most important liberty for the purposes of higher education because learning cannot occur in silence.

Davidson has remained a campus where free speech reigns, even as so many other campuses across the country have turned
away from liberty and toward politically correct authoritarianism. Yet recent events should remind us that Davidson’s commitment to freedom of
speech is by no means guaranteed. We must defend it vigilantly.

Federal law demands that all colleges and universities prohibit “discriminatory harassment” on their campuses in order to receive federal funds.
But numerous colleges, many of which are similar to Davidson in size and academics, have expanded their anti-harassment policies from
the narrow goal of protecting students from threats and true intimidation to the more troublesome purpose of prohibiting any kind
of speech that could possibly be seen as offensive, no matter how unreasonably. For example, in 2003, the University of
Maryland’s speech code forbade students from making “idle chatter of a sexual nature, sexual innuendoes ... and comments or questions
about the sensuality of a person.” As law professor David Bernstein observed, under this code, “saying ‘I like your shirt,
Brenda’ is a punishable instance of sexual harassment.”

But there’s no chance that Davidson would ever place the rights of certain people to feel comfortable at all times
above the rights of everyone to speak freely, right? The first cause for worry is the faculty reaction to several
satirical articles printed in this newspaper in September. Faculty members are certainly free to speak out against sentiments they find
sexist or offensive—but there’s something strange about the arguments they used. They are frighteningly similar to arguments used on other
campuses to justify restrictive speech codes. Members of the faculty claimed in letters and columns that The Yowl articles were
not merely mistaken or unfunny; they were intimidating people through the perpetuation of misogynistic stereotypes. Advocates of speech codes at
other colleges have taken this argument to its logical conclusion: if these kinds of jokes are intimidating, then they are
forms of harassment and must be banned.

This absurdly expansive view of intimidation is antithetical to the goals of a liberal arts education. The free exchange of
ideas necessary for a truly educational environment is impossible if students cannot talk about sexuality or other controversial topics due
to fear of punishment by the administration.

The second event that sparked my concern for the future of Davidson was a recent discussion about pornography organized by
the student health advisors. The discussion continually steered towards ideas that porn is degrading and exploitative of women, even the
actresses that voluntarily participate, that it somehow lures men into committing acts of violence against women, and that it is
so obscene that it is exempt from the First Amendment. I am glad that students are discussing these ideas. But
what disturbs me is that these arguments are indistinguishable from the talking points used by radical feminists and Christian fundamentalists
alike to advocate legislative bans on pornographic material.

Is our college’s motto simply a few pleasant words that look good in brochures, or is it a statement of
values that provides purpose to the school? I believe it is impossible to defend the principle of free speech while
simultaneously attacking certain kinds of speech as beyond the pale. If free speech only means the freedom to say or
look at things that the majority approves of, then it is truly an insignificant value. Defenders of liberty must answer
the accusations levied against porn if this campus is to remain a place where all perspectives, even the most unpopular,
are respected.

Davidson may be challenged to answer this question in the near future. The members of this community must speak up
now against the intellectual oppression that has swept other campuses, or our college may fail this challenge.

Matt Bandyk is a senior political science major from Tampa, FL, and is co-editor of the Perspectives section. Contact him
at mabandyk@davidson.edu.
