THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2005 7
Mental warfare proves tougher than combat

‘Jarhead’ stars Jake Gyllenhaal, pictured, and Academy Award winner Jamie Foxx both endure a physical and psychological combat overseas.

By STEVE KALISKI
Senior Staff Writer

Say what you want about Sam Mendes’ “Jarhead” being the definitive war film for the Desert Storm generation. Considering its
courageous and hip leading actors, its decidedly unromantic tone, and its fashionably cynical political statements, maybe it is the quintessential
picture for America’s lingering Iraqi conflict.

Still, this disturbing, affecting film from the director of “American Beauty” and “Road to Perdition” succeeds far more resoundingly than
simply as an anti-war film. An unnerving depiction of the violent depths of boredom, “Jarhead” should resonate powerfully with anyone
who has ever experienced the agonizing sensation of uselessness in the wake of enormous expectations.

Those expecting rousing combat sequences will leave the theater disappointed; “Jarhead” focuses far more attention on psychological confrontations than on
physical ones.

Like many of his fellow naive young patriots, Tony Swofford (Jake Gyllenhaal) joins the Marines with the certainty that his
military determination will leave a permanent imprint on the battlefield. When the Gulf War appears on the horizon, Swofford and
his sniper company—including his Staff Sgt. Sykes (Jamie Foxx) and his new friend Troy (Peter Sarsgaard)—travel to Iraq hoping that
they will actively contribute to a thunderous American victory.

What they actually encounter in the desert is an insanely dull game of waiting. After months of rigorous, relentless training,
these skilled soldiers must question the value of their presence in an invisible conflict that does not seem to require
their participation.

Their days consist of pointless patrolling, joyless masturbation, insincere interviews, and inevitable break-up letters from sweethearts back home. In fact,
the only thing missing from their routines is a motivational purpose. After days, weeks, and months of waiting, these stir-crazy
soldiers finally lose their patience with their own futility.

It’s not spoiling much to say that when Operation Desert Storm actually does begin, this atmosphere of uselessness does not
dissipate. In the aimless frenzy of combat, men risk their lives to recover radio batteries that are already dead; they
face deadly air assaults that mistakenly come from friendly fire; they discover perfect sniper shots that their superior officers veto
in favor of alternative tactics.

In short, “Jarhead” becomes a movie about once ambitious people who must accept that their contributions amount to far less
than originally hoped. Gyllenhaal’s raging performance as the leading disillusioned marine brims with moments of emotional vulnerability that are not
at all exclusive to war. Perhaps most wrenching is his powerlessness as he realizes that his long-time girlfriend, the sole
source of stability in his life, has moved on to another lover while he has remained motionless in the desert.

In his first two features, Mendes developed a reputation as master craftsman of slow and eerie visuals. While the photography
in “Jarhead” lacks the overall decadence of “American Beauty” and “Road to Perdition,” Mendes occasionally reminds us of his incredible
control over the camera. One sequence, during which the soldiers slog through burning, raining oil wells, contains enough frightening images
to satisfy a year’s worth of nightmares.

Combined with the film’s potent message and its outstanding performances, such visuals more than compensate for the absence of concrete,
marketable action. While the soldiers in “Jarhead” may be bored to death, audiences should brace themselves for a jarring couple
of hours.

Starring: Jake Gyllenhaal, Jamie Foxx, Brian Geraghty, Jacob Vargas and Laz Alonso

Directed by: Sam Mendes

Rating: R

The boat's already packed. Help us fill it.

EVERGLADES 2006
