: WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2005

Trash emptied SEE PAGE 2

Student writes on own whiteboard, Facebook wall = = ) inopportune time See Page 5

Decision Davidson See Page 9

THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

Now in larger font

In an unforeseen announcement, as of the next academic year, the mascot of Davidson College will be the Wasp. In an unveiling ceremony, complete with a laser light show, the Davidson College Athletic Department and the Board of Trustees introduced the new mascot: a giant wasp, as well as a corresponding logo for use on clothing and other merchandise.

According to the official press release, the Board of Trustees wanted a more distinctive mascot and felt that while a wasp was distinguishing and represented Davidson College well, it would not draw attention to itself or be overly flashy. Said Athletic Director Mike Jamison '76, “To be honest, this change has been in the works for a number of years. I think that it’s a consensus among many on the Board of Trustees, as well as a number of members of the administration, that a wasp would better epitomize Davidson than a wildcat. This was certainly a difficult decision, as Davidsonians have been wildcats for many years. Still, it seemed obvious to us that while a wildcat had no inherent meaning to Davidson, the Wasp would be much more appropriate for its students.”

KEVIN LYLE PROSPECTIVE STUDENT

Hi, where are you from? Oh, I’m from Rochester, well, right outside Rochester to be exact. Yeah, we flew into Charlotte yesterday. The Best Western in Mooresville. Yeah, I’m definitely liking it here, everyone seems really cool. I’m deciding between here, the University of Virginia, Middlebury, Johns Hopkins, and maybe Cornell. Union offered me a bunch of money too, but I’m not really interested. Yeah, the weather definitely scores some points! So, are you happy here? Yeah, nobody knew what I was talking about when I told them I was visiting Davidson. But you’re happy you chose Davidson? Well, where else did you get into? Oh, that’s cool. Do you think that it’s really southern here? Well, is it really conservative? But how about socially? Are people very religious here? But people aren’t in your face or anything, right? So, is the workload really that hard? I mean, how much do you work per night? What’s your major? I’d probably do Econ, but I’m not sure. Are there any easy classes? Do you like most of your classes? Are they mostly lectures or discussion? Oh, maybe I'll sit in, that sounds really interesting, do you think the professor would mind? How big are your classes? And the professors know your name? Do you see them a lot outside of class? But how about outside of office hours? Have you eaten dinner at any professor’s house? So, you get a freshman advisor assigned to you? But it’s really not that helpful? Oh, okay. But people follow the Honor Code a lot, right? How do self-scheduled exams work? Oh, that’s really cool. And most people leave their doors unlocked, my tour guide said something about that. So, how are the dorms? Yeah, I heard about the roommate matching thing. Does that work pretty well? Are you living with your roommate from this year again? How are the RAs, are they really strict about drinking and stuff? So, freshman halls have hall counselors. What’s the difference? And you like him? Where do you live? Is that all freshmen? Oh, so your whole freshman hall’s really close. What’s flickerball? Well, where’s the best place to live freshman year? Do they give you a choice? What’s substance-free like? Yeah, I don’t think I'd do it, but my mom might make me. And, all the floors are single sex, right? Yeah, that’s weird. But, the dorm rooms are pretty big, right? I hear the senior apartments are really nice. Yeah, that’s awesome, I can’t believe that they do your laundry for you. Do they do a good job? They boil it? Does anyone do their own laundry? That’s really cool. You play any sports here? I might try to walk onto the baseball team, we’ll see. Oh, which frat is that? Are you in a frat? But, do most people join?frats here? Yeah, I don’t think I’d join one, I’m not really the frat type, but I don’t know. The frats seem pretty relaxed here, right? What’s the deal with eating houses, how does that work? So is there any difference between those and sororities? What do you do on the weekends? So mostly frat parties? That’s cool. I mean, is there a lot of drinking? A little bit, sometimes. How far away is Charlotte? Do you ever go into Charlotte for dinner or anything? How about the Lake Campus? That sounds really nice, do you go there often? Any good restaurants around here? Yeah, I saw it on the drive over. But, do people go out to dinner a lot or do they mostly stay on campus? How is the food in the cafeteria? So regular college food. They’re renovating it right? That should be nice. Yeah, a lot of the buildings here are new, right? Yeah, I saw the football stadium. Yeah, that’s funny. But the basketball team’s really good right? Didn’t they almost make the NCAA tournament? Do you ever see any basketball players walking around? But, he’s just like a regular student? That must be really cool, watching someone you know play on ESPN. How are the girls here? But there are some hot ones right? Yeah, that’s good. I mean, is it pretty easy to hook up? Yeah, I got a girlfriend right now, but I don’t know if we’re going to stay together for college. Do a lot of people date here or is it mostly random hook-ups and stuff? Well, anyways, thanks for your time. I’ll probably see you next year.

Roger Witherspoon ’54, member of the Board of Trustees, echoed these statements. “We felt that the time was right to make a change in the mascot, especially in light of some recent changes made to the Board that may alter the fundamental character of the school. In our opinion, the new mascot should ensure that Davidson retains its long-standing ethic, good pedigree, and strong makeup well into the future.”

The wildcat has traditionally been a very popular college mascot; in addition to Davidson, other colleges that call the wildcat their own include the University of Arizona, University of Kentucky, Villanova, Kansas State, and Northwestern. Davidson will share the wasp with only Emory and Henry College. Projections made by the Office of Business Services show that the change in mascot should lead to a two-fold increase in merchandise sales. They claim that the increase in sales should make up for the expected $1.8 million cost of switching over to the new mascot, including the cost of replacing the wildcat statue outside of the Baker Sports Complex with a new giant wasp.

The Davidsonian
Davidson mascot changed to wasp

This past Monday, the Davidson College Board of Trustees revealed that the Davidson Wildcat is no longer the school’s mascot. The College Bookstore claims that they should have the new Davidson Wasps merchandise ready for purchase by early May, though varsity athletes will receive complimentary Wasp baseball caps in their mailboxes this week. Many students, while surprised by the announcement, are excited for the new mascot. Said William England ’07, “I look forward to changing my wardrobe from Davidson Wildcat stuff to a whole new set of Davidson Wasp clothes. I mean, what the heck does a Wildcat have to do with Davidson? The Wasp, though, now that’s a classy mascot right there.”

According to sources within the Board of Trustees, other mascots considered were an alligator, a horse, or a Confederate General.

GUIDE TO DAVIDSON COMMUNICATION
Required forced humor with my Bio book.

Joke: If you ever find yourself in any of these various common Davidson situations, you are required to make the corresponding joke, even if it is extremely unfunny and has been made numerous times.

Situation: Going out to dinner with roommate
Joke: “Yeah, it’s a hot date. We’re probably going to hook up. It'll be real awkward afterwards.”

Situation: Paying back money
Joke: “This is for last night. You were great.”

Situation: Friend is meeting with a professor
Joke: “So, going for a little ‘after school’ help? I wonder what you’re going to need to do for an ‘A’?”

Situation: People are going to Home Depot, et al.
Joke: “We're going to go to Home Depot. Yeah, buy some wallpaper, maybe get some flooring, stuff like that. Maybe Bed, Bath, & Beyond, I don't know, I don't know if we'll have enough time.”

Situation: Cannot go out due to exam
Joke: “Yeah, I think I’m just going to have a hot date with my Bio book.”

Situation: Watching a major college football game
Joke: “They could beat our football team by 100.”

Situation: Student is wearing a Lacoste shirt
Joke: “When did you join KA?”

Situation: [Insert situation]
Joke: “Thank goodness that it wasn’t a goose.”