THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, JUNE 16, 2005

Las Brizas: more than meets the ojo
Mexican restaurant establishing reputation among competition
By VIRGINIA GREGORY AND ANDREW SCHAPIRO
Senior Staff Writers

Amidst the sea of Mexican restaurants that stretch along I-77 from Huntersville to Mooresville, few hold ground like Las Brizas
Grille in Cornelius. Situated off Highway 21, about one mile south of exit 28, the unassuming exterior looks like something
of a converted Pizza Hut with its low-sloping roof and unadorned windows. Las Brizas (which must be derived from las
brisas, or breezes) makes up for its lack of charm with very good, authentic Mexican cuisine and efficient service. Only
a year old, the restaurant has begun to create a name for itself. $4 lunch specials draw a crowd in
the daytime, and manager Evaristo Figueroa admitted that the weekends are now almost too busy for his taste. What keeps
people coming back is the expectation of consistent food with a few appealing twists.

The menu at Las Brizas is simply daunting. About six pages long, it includes sections for seafood, pork, especialidades, and
fajitas, among other items. We had more difficulty just reading through and narrowing down our options than we did finding
tempting dishes. Our server recommended the plain cheese dip over the one with spinach as a starter. Though not particularly
striking in appearance, the dip had a distinct flavor and light, creamy texture. Combined with the complimentary fresh salsa and
tortilla chips on our table, it made for an excellent start.

Before we could make a noticeable dent in the dip, a sizzling platter of fajitas arrived along with standard toppings
like guacamole, pico de gallo, and sour cream. The warm flour tortillas for our fajitas arrived a few minutes after
the rest of the meal, keeping us from enjoying the dish while the beef and chicken were still sizzling.

Fajitas come with chicken, beef, or shrimp marinated and sautéed with bell peppers, onion, mushrooms, tomatoes, and zucchini. Unlike at
other Mexican restaurants, the meat and vegetables at Las Brizas do not sit in a pool of grease, and tortilla
wraps hardly turn into a messy production. Though the beef was tough as a result of being cooked through, the
meat was well-seasoned and very flavorful.

Our chimichanga and chalupa contained only white meat chicken, shredded and lightly seasoned. Simple in ingredients as well as presentation,
the chimichanga served as a welcomed change from what tends to be a heavy dish. Likewise, the fried tortilla holding
our chalupa was light and crisp without the oily taste we have become accustomed to. Pico de gallo and sour
cream atop the chalupa complimented the chicken, beans, and tortilla; furthermore, while we tend to avoid iceberg lettuce, its crunchy
texture was refreshing.

Las Brizas’s margaritas were good, but it was clear that they were not made from scratch. The sangria blended wine
and subtle fruit flavors without including actual pieces of fruit. If you are a margarita connoisseur, it might be safer
to stick with one of the many international beers than to order a mixed drink.

The service was up to par with the food and proved to be a team effort. Our primary server was
attentive, and drinks and food arrived in a timely yet unhurried fashion. Another server attended to us sporadically, refilling water
glasses and delivering extra tortillas for our fajitas unobtrusively. The manager even stopped by the table during the meal to
make sure everything was to our liking. Everyone on the staff was friendly and eager to make our dining experience
enjoyable.

The decor at Las Brizas is sparse yet com-fortable. Colorful Mexican paintings in wooden frames adorn electric blue stucco walls.
Table settings were not elaborate, with the most interesting feature being salt and pepper shakers made from Corona bottles. In
addition to a few booths, thick, block-shaped wooden tables and chairs fill a number of small dining rooms, which make
the restaurant feel much smaller than it actually is. A few televisions showing soccer and news are scattered throughout the
restaurant for additional entertainment. While there is nothing that compares to the elaborate fountain found in the dining room of
Zapata’s, such a piece would seem pretentious in the casual, family-oriented atmosphere of Las Brizas.

SNAPSHOT OF DAVIDSON
photo by Rachel Andoga

Students rehearse the “Vagina Monologues.” Part of a nation-wide Valentine’s Day movement to raise awareness of abuse of women and
girls, Davidson’s performance raised funds for Scotland County Women’s Shelter.

Great heights
By Sarwar

With the advent of indoor climbing gyms and outdoor entertainment television, climbing is quickly gaining popularity as one of America’s
favorite active sports. Your Outdoor Advisor is here to help you experience high thrill climbing without ever leaving campus. Davidson
Outdoors (DO) employee Will Gwaltney ’08 is quick to point out, however, that snowy mountain expeditions that we hear about
in the news are more specifically known as mountaineering. “All the trips you hear about in the news, to places
like Mt. Everest, Denali, and McKinley, those are all mountaineering trips. You’re walking on snow and ice with crampons (a
special type of boot with big spikes) and ski poles. Mountaineering is a type of mountain climbing.”

Phil Henderson, a mountaineer and National Outdoor Leadership School guide in Utah, will be on campus this Thursday and Friday
to share his experience preparing to climb Mt. Everest. Next month, Henderson will be part of the first all African-American
team to attempt to summit the tallest mountain in the world. Henderson’s visit to Davidson includes a special appearance as
a barista at Summit on Thursday morning and a cookout at the BSC at 5:30 p.m. the same day, followed
by a presentation and slide show at 7 p.m. in Chambers Gallery. Henderson will return to Summit from 9-11 p.m.
to chat and answer questions about his outdoor experiences and upcoming trip.

After Henderson’s visit whets your appetite for some climbing, the Outdoor Advisor recommends heading on down to DO to polish
your own skills. The climbing wall is open from 3:30-5:30 p.m. Monday-Friday and 7-9 p.m. Monday-Thursday. Laura Beach ’07, DO
President, explains the ease of climbing on campus. “Our staff goes over basic safety procedures and you sign a waiver.
There’s no need for you to have any climbing experience. We’ll show you what you need to know. You can
boulder, or they can belay you (or teach you to belay). We provide the shoes and gear you'll need.”

Not only is climbing an exhilarating activity, it also provides a great workout. Leah Swaney ’08 describes her climbing experience:
“I had always seen people playing on the climbing wall when I was working out and decided to go to
DO and give it a try the other night. I discovered muscles I didn’t even know I had. The staff
was really friendly and taught me what to do.”

One of the great benefits of climbing is the camaraderie between climbers. For instance, five Palestinians and five Israelis recently
climbed an unnamed mountain in Antarctica. That mountain has since been renamed the “Mountain of Israeli-Palestinian Friendship.” The group will
be on campus Feb. 23 to discuss their powerful uniting experience.

For the more adventurous souls, Looking Glass Rock in Pisgah National Forest near Brevard offers superb rock climbing within an
easy drive. For directions and route suggestions, stop by DO between 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. and 1:30-5:30 p.m.
