20 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2005

Late-game HRs spark wins vs. Wake, Wofford

By STEPHEN J. HALLIDAY
Senior Staff Writer

After opening the year with a 6-3 win against Wake Forest in Winston Salem, Davidson pounded out an 11-10 thriller against the Demon Deacons at Wilson Field on Wednesday before claiming a 2-1 series victory against Wofford over the weekend. In the process, Davidson also evened its record at 15-15 and moved to 5-10 in SoCon play.

On Wednesday, the ’Cats faced ACC foe Wake Forest in a night game that featured offensive fireworks throughout. In the end, the heroics of SoCon player of the week, player of the month, and pitcher of the week, Jay Heafner ’06, were just enough to carry Davidson to the 11-10 victory. Davidson and Wake Forest exchanged runs throughout the game, as neither team was able to build or maintain a lead. The game was tied at seven going into the eighth, but Wake Forest tallied three runs in the top half of the inning, including two on a two-run homer with two outs, to take a 10-7 lead.

The ’Cats refused to go away, however, and they launched a rally of their own in the bottom of the inning. The rally began when Mike Muniz ’05 was hit by a pitch, and Ronnie Shore ’06 drove him home with a double to center. Andrew Musashe ’05 followed Shore up with a bunt single, reaching base safely and advancing Shore to third. Following a Demon Deacon pitching change, Heafner promptly hit a three-run homer to center, his sixth of the season, to help Davidson reclaim the lead, 11-10. Following his clutch home run, Heafner moved to the mound in the top half of the ninth to close out the Demon Deacons, and he allowed just one hit to preserve the Wildcat victory. Heafner also had two hits and four RBIs in the game, and the ’Cats also got solid offensive games from Rob Wilson ’07 and Greg Zage ’07, who each homered and recorded two RBIs.

The ’Cats’ next game was Saturday in Spartanburg against Wofford, and it proved to be the pitcher’s duel it was tabbed to be, with Davidson’s Andy Carter ’05 keeping the Wildcats close with his usual solid work. Wofford managed the first run of the game in the bottom of the second on an error, but Davidson answered quickly in the top of the third when Taylor Shoop ’06 launched a solo shot to right to even the score. The Terriers added another run in the bottom of the sixth, and Davidson did not answer until the ninth, when Zage hit a solo home run with two outs to send the game into extra innings. Justin Hartanov ’05 pitched three scoreless innings to keep the ’Cats in the game, and in the top of the 11th inning the ’Cats rallied once again. Davidson showed exceptional patience at the plate, as the Wildcats recorded four walks in the 11th before scoring one run on a wild pitch and two more on a single by Sam Navarro ’05. Following the three-run outburst, Heafner entered the game and pitched a perfect bottom half of the inning for another save. Although he did not earn the win, Carter did pitch exceptionally well, going seven innings and allowing four hits and just one earned run.

After rain postponed the Saturday contest, the Wildcats returned on Sunday for a double-header against the Terriers. The first game of the twin bill was dominated by the Terriers from the third inning on, as Davidson managed just two runs in the game. Davidson took an early 2-1 lead in the third, but Wofford answered with three runs in the bottom of the inning, and Davidson failed to score for the remainder of the game.

In the nightcap, the ’Cats looked to rebound in the rubber game and earn their first SoCon series win of the year. Davidson got out to a good start in the first, scoring...Two runs on RBI from Zage and Eli Benefield ’06. The ’Cats struck again in the second, scoring two more runs on hits by Shoop, Navarro, Musashe, and Heafner. Davidson added runs in the fourth and sixth innings as well, and shutout pitching performances by Hartanov and Heafner sealed the win and the first SoCon series win of the year. The game ended 6-4 after seven innings due to conference regulations regarding Sunday doubleheaders. Davidson next has a three-game series against Appalachian State at home this weekend. Mountaineer head man Chris Pollard ’96 will also coach his first game against his old team.

Golf gears up for final run at a championship

Steve Mayo ’07 leads the Wildcats into this week’s SoCon Championships at River Run.

By WILSON McCrory
Sports Editor

The Wildcats concluded their regular season with an eighth-place finish at the Forest Oaks Intercollegiate on April 5 in Greensboro. While the field included just 12 teams overall, Davidson was only five strokes away from a fifth-place finish in the tournament. Highlighting the weekend for the Wildcats was Steve Mayo ’07, who led Davidson in scoring for the second straight tournament. Overall, Mayo registered a one-over 217 (71-74-72) to finish a career-best third overall in the tournament. After sitting out several tournaments in the middle of the season, Mayo is just happy to be back on the course and competing. “Sitting out tournaments is never fun,” he said, “but it certainly provides motivation to improve. I’m pleased with the progress I have seen in my game lately and hope to build on that momentum this week.”

Tim Dillon ’06 finished second for the Wildcats and 21st overall with a 228. Dillon recovered from a tough 77-78 start to post a final round 73. Alex Knoll ’07 (231; 78-76-77) came in 31st overall in the tournament, while Dan Walker ’05 and Christian Davis ’06 both struggled to final-round 86’s to end with scores of 238 and 242, respectively.

Davidson next hosts the Southern Conference Championships at River Run Country Club on April 17-19. Last year, Davidson finished tied for sixth out of 12 conference teams, and Mayo and Dillon paced the ’Cats by tying for 16th overall. “This week matters more to us than any other during the year, so our preparation has geared us to play our best this week,” said Mayo. “While the physical state of our games is important, our biggest asset is that hunger to win.” The Wildcats also have a built-in advantage this weekend, as the home meet provides a definite familiarity with the course. Mayo said, “The home-course advantage is significant because of the comfort level it provides. Every drive, every pitch, every putt will be a shot we have played before in practice. That gives us the relaxed confidence to let things fly. There will be several strong teams present this weekend, but with the home-course edge, we certainly possess the motivation, experience, and talent to take the title.”

Player of the Week
Kelsey Linville ’08
Tennis
Hometown: Columbus, Ohio
Major: Undeclared

Linville extended winning streaks in singles and doubles play last week against UNCG. She improved to 8-0 in conference singles matches with a 6-1, 7-5 win over Erika Zakbar. She also garnered her 14th-straight doubles victory with Meggie Peterson against the Spartans.

Play of the Week
Heafner ’06 downs Deacons with bat and arm

Jay Heafner ’06, the SoCon Player of the Month and the latest SoCon Pitcher of the Week, bombed a three-run homer in the eighth inning to put Davidson up by one run against Wake Forest. The Wildcat star was not satisfied to contribute only with the bat; he came in to pitch a scoreless ninth inning to preserve the Wildcats' 11-10 victory. Heafner is the first Wildcat to win both Player and Pitcher of the Week since Tim Frend in 2002.