18 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2005

Wildcats rebound with 7-0 sweep against UNCG
By MONICA JAMOUNEAU
Staff Writer

Women’s tennis, now ranked 60th in the nation after a heartbreaking loss to College of Charleston last week, defeated UNC
Greensboro on Wednesday, 7-0. In the process, the ’Cats proved that they have put the Charleston loss behind them in
preparation for Southern Conference championship play. Davidson also moved to 6-1 against SoCon foes with the victory, keeping the 'Cats
in contention for a regular season conference championship as well.

In Greensboro, Davidson jumped to a quick lead by taking two of three doubles matches against the Spartans, including 8-4
efforts by the teams of Kelly Fillnow ’05 and Meghan Fillnow ’05 and Meggie Patterson ’05 and Kelsey Linville ’08.
The victories mark the sixth time in a row that the ’Cats have claimed the doubles point. At the third
doubles position, Sarah Borkowski ’05 and Kim Whelan ’08 lost a hard-fought match that went into a tiebreaker.

The rest of the points fell quickly for the Wildcats, as all six singles players won in straight sets. At
numbers three and five, Linville and Kate Levitt ’07 used their respective victories to advance to 8-0 in the conference
in singles. “We always take matches one at a time and try not to look back. The UNCG match was
a great win for us, and we really came out strong. Now we’re ready to show Furman and Wofford we
can beat them and prepare for the conference championship,” said Whelan.

Davidson has now won 13 of its last 14 matches, mostly in dominant fashion. In fact, Davidson’s last five victories
have all been shutouts. For the 'Cats’ final two regular season contests, the women will travel to South Carolina this
coming weekend. Davidson will first square off against Furman, the current front-runner in the Southern Conference, on Saturday, and the
’Cats will then conclude the regular season against Wofford on Sunday in a game that was postponed last week due
to concerns about inclement weather.

Tennis can’t handle streaking BC, Wofford
By PIERCE TRUMBO
Staff Writer

The men’s tennis team continued its doubles dominance this past week, but the Wildcats still suffered two tough losses against
Boston College and Wofford. On April 8, the ’Cats hosted a streaking Boston College squad that had won five straight
matches, even though the Eagles’ overall record was only 7-9. Davidson was unable to snap the Boston College winning streak,
either, as the Wildcats faltered down the stretch to fall, 2-5.

Once again, the 'Cats won two of three doubles contests to earn the opening point of the match, but Davidson
then claimed just one of the six remaining singles matches. Donald Miles ’05 and Russ Burns ’05 won 8-5 at
the number one doubles position, and Joe Cheaney ’06 and Flaviu Simihaidn ’08 won 8-3 at the number three doubles
position; however, only Daniel Bermeo ’06 at the number four singles position was able to manage a victory in singles
competition. He won 6-2, 6-1.

Two of the five other singles matches went to three sets, but the ’Cats could not pull off either victory.
Burns suffered a particularly hard loss at the number five position. After winning the first set in comfortable fashion, 6-1,
he lost a tie-breaker in the second, 7-6, and then fell 6-2 in the rubber set. Jay Chitty ’07 at
the number six position also lost in three sets, 6-4, 0-6, 6-3.

“I think we’ve won the doubles point seven straight times now,” said Miles, “Against Boston College, Bermeo was the only
guy to win a singles match, but [Burns] had a match point in the second set tie-breaker and [Chitty] lost
ina tight third set. So the match really could have gone either way.”

Two days later, the team squared off against conference opponent Wofford, and the Wildcats looked to move above .500 in
SoCon play with a victory. The tandems of Miles and Burns and Simihaian and Cheaney again scored two of three
doubles victories for the team, with scores of 8-3 and 8-2 respectively, to earn the opening point of the match.
Unfortunately, the ’Cats’ play in singles competition again let them down, as Davidson won just two of the singles matches.

Meggie Patterson ’05 won in straight sets at number two vs. UNCG, 6-4, 6-3.

Kifer, Mercadante pace Davidson in Durham
By Britt MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

This past weekend, all but six members of the track and field team received a well-deserved rest. Those that raced,
on the other hand, braved inclement weather as well as overcrowded races to compete at the Duke Invitational in Durham.
The six Davidson runners split up into two groups for the meet, with three in the 1500 and three in
the 5000.

“[The meet was] easily the most talented collection of athletes I’ve ever seen,” said Any Kifer ’08. “It was a
good experience.” Joe Taylor ’06 agreed, saying, “It was exciting to compete at such a large and important event this
early in the season.”

Those in the 1500 were the first to compete, and Kifer narrowly edged out Douglas Noreen ’07 to lead the
Wildcats in the event. Kifer came through in 4:02.31, a new personal record, while Noreen finished just fractions of a
second behind him at 4:02.36. Nick Lehman ’05 also ran in the race, and his time of 4:06.07 qualified as
a season’s best. Kifer’s race impressed Austin Mercadante ’06, who said, “[Kifer] has run faster each race as the season
has progressed, and he’s looking pretty solid with three weeks to go until the SoCon Championship.” Lehman, on the other
hand, said of his own race, “I’m still a good ways off from where I’d like to be at this
point in the season, but I'm glad to finally be getting in the groove.”

The conclusion of the 5000 proved just as exciting as that of the 1500, with Mercadante just slipping by Jonathon
Baker ’06 at the finish line. Mercadante’s time of 15:10.04 was good enough to earn him a spot on Davidson’s
top-ten performance list for the 5000, with Coach Gary Andrew calling it “a breakthrough performance.” Kifer and Mercadante were quick
to congratulate Baker, too, whose 15:10.82 was also a season’s best. Kifer said, “[Baker] ran very aggressively, which was good
to see,” and Mercadante added, “Baker ran solidly throughout the race.” Baker was also pleased with his race, as he
said, “Although I’ve still got some things to work on, it was a step in the right direction.”

The other member of the team to race in the 5000 was Alex Varner ’07, whose time of 15:47.68 was
another personal record. Not one to mince words, Varner simply called his race “a zoo.” He credited his time, though,
with the ability “to find the one place where people weren’t.”

Coach Gary Andrew was pleased with the results of his harriers, as three of them set personal records, two more
had season’s bests, and one earned a spot on the top-ten list for his respective race. “Overall, I was pleased
with the guys’ efforts. They got after it, and it was a good step forward as we come down the
home stretch leading into conference.”

The next stop for the track and field team is Clemson next weekend, where the Wildcats will compete at the
Solid Orange Classic.
