THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2005 — 11

Pope John Paul II: a life to remember
By JOSEPH ADAMS
Guest Columnist

Looking back on the twentieth century, we are reminded that history records the lives of both good and evil men.
Roosevelt, Churchill, and Reagan will be remembered for their abiding faith in democracy and unrelenting opposition to fascism and communism.
We will forever link Hitler, Stalin, and Mao to the dangerous ideologies they embraced and the countless millions they killed.

On Saturday, the world lost Pope John Paul II, who was without a doubt the greatest Christian leader of the
twentieth century. He was also liberty’s greatest ally and virtue’s strongest advocate. In many ways, the Pope’s life embodied the
struggles of his century. When Cardinal Karol Wojtyla of Krakow was announced in 1979 as the first non-Italian pope in
four centuries, he brought to the Catholic Church and the world a simple but powerful message: “be not afraid.”

The Pope was an unlikely courier of this message. His native country of Poland had witnessed the worst of humanity
during the Second World War, and a communist dictatorship later repressed political and religious freedom there with such brutal force
that a future of freedom seemed unlikely. In the face of so much evil and uncertainty, he pressed onward, standing
confidently and proudly upon his deep faith and his fervent belief in the goodness of humanity.

“He ... was liberty’s greatest ally and virtue’s greatest advocate.”

Since he so strongly believed in the goodness of his fellow man, the Pope was a passionate and unyielding supporter
of freedom during the Cold War. Although he lamented the build-up of arms in both the United States and the
Soviet Union, he ultimately averted the grave error committed by so many of his political contemporaries: morally equating freedom and
tyranny. Pope John Paul II and his steadfast ally Ronald Reagan were, together, the Pope and the president who helped
to defeat communism. By working to eradicate one of the century’s greatest threats to faith and freedom, Pope John Paul
II has forged a legacy worthy of our praise. He has already become, as President George W. Bush called him,
“a hero for the ages.”

Alongside the Pope’s efforts to promote liberty in the world, he drew upon his faith in God to boldly stand
for truth and virtue in a time that often seemed destined to be defined as the era in which the
world abandoned truth and lost hope. His strong, faith-inspired perspectives on peace, stem-cell research, contraception, and marriage touched the minds
of countless millions and helped to shape the great political and cultural debates that have led us into the twenty-first
century.

Although his followers did not always agree with his positions—most notably his stringent opposition to contraception—Catholics always listened to the
Pope and respected his opinions. You didn’t have to be Catholic—you didn’t even have to agree with him—to appreciate the
sincerity, the confidence, and the passion of Pope John Paul II.

The manner of both John Paul II’s life and death bear witness to his convictions. During his papacy, the Pope
also helped to revive the image of the Catholic Church in the eyes of the global community and to work
toward the peaceful coexistence of the three great faiths. Ever-mindful of the Church’s tainted past, he courageously apologized for the
Vatican’s disturbing silence on the Holocaust during World War II. He also relentlessly urged Christians, Muslims, and Jews to find
common ground and work together to build a better, more peaceful world.

There is much unfinished work for the Catholic Church, and debate will accordingly continue over the scandals that overshadowed the
Church’s work in the past decade. Even now, much attention has shifted from the legacy of this Pope to the
selection of his successor. There will be time in the future for all of these things, but we should pause
this week to celebrate the life of one man alone. Pope John Paul II was the inspiration of generations and
the twentieth century’s great witness to truth and to hope. The Catholic Church has lost a leader. America has lost
a friend. The world has lost a hero. As we move forward in the third one thousand years, we have
much less to fear, and we have much more to hope for, because he lived and gave us such a
powerful and noble life.

Joseph Adams is a junior political science major from Angier, N.C. Contact him at

---

Military draft won’t happen

Although the media is too superficial and too parochial to see it, precedents exist in American history for almost every
major issue of the Bush administration’s foreign policy. Call it Faulkner’s dictum: the past, far from being dead, is not
even past. But history, that repository of errant theories and unforgiving miscalculations, is a trifle for the most mulish amongst
us. C.S. Lewis, the noted Christian apologist, used to write about “chronological snobbery,” the idea that the present eclipses the
past. Such presumption permits no humility in the study of history. The upshot is a dangerously smug mantra: “We can
do it better!”

The draft is something we can never do better. Even when deployed to buttress a just war, there are few
things which should so cause us to recoil as forcing one man to fight for another’s freedom. The integrity of
the individual cannot be sacrificed for the integrity of society.

ASHISH GEORGE

“The integrity of the individual cannot be sacrificed for the integrity of society.”

MIT linguist and dissident Noam Chomsky disagrees. Unlike the media, however, which are too superficial to substantially connect the present
debate to the past, Chomsky knows his history. It’s just that at least on this issue he doesn’t know how
to use it. “In Vietnam,” Chomsky notes, “the army collapsed from within: drugs, killing officers, etc. Citizens are not trained
killers, and they are not sufficiently dissociated from the civilian culture at home to fight colonial wars properly. The top
brass wanted the army out, before it fell apart. And the civilian leadership agreed.”jsadams@davidson.edu. Solve war problems. In other words,
Chomsky favors the draft because he knows drafted soldiers fight worse. Empires usually do not rely on drafted soldiers, opting
instead to send colonial peoples to be the grist in the barbarous mill. But for the individuals who are drafted,
the road to a war effort’s collapse is ghoulish. Certainly, Chomsky knows this. But in the grand scheme of things,
he might say, isn’t the hell through which the drafted are put worth undermining a savage war? No, and for
a simple reason: a savage war is made all the more savage when the rights of those at home are
violated on top of the rights of those abroad. American occupations that are unpopular abroad—the Philippines, Vietnam, Iraq, etc.—already rely
largely on coercion. When coercion crosses oceans and returns back home, that is when an eternal truth is elucidated: you
never get the war you want (humanitarian, “peacekeeping,” etc.); you get the war the crooks who govern want. And coercion,
the evisceration of choice, is the prerogative of the master to use upon his slave. Even if the United States
were invaded and the nation was actually in direct danger, the fact that persons live their lives better than anyone
can live for them should prevent us from thinking of our freedom as something that we have to amputate parts
of in order to save the whole; transitory freedom is no freedom at all. Though some may be so vain
as to think we could fight a war that incorporated a draft better than we have in the past, in
this case better would be worse. Famed dissident Chomsky is antiwar, but pro-draft. Ashish George is a sophomore from Greensboro,
N.C. Contact him at asgeorge@davidson.edu.

Lies, damned lies, and recycling. In my independent film class last semester, we encountered Andie MacDowell giving an odd monologue
at the beginning of one of the films: “Garbage ... I mean, where do we put all of it, we
have to run out of places to put it eventually, don’t we? [Remember] when that barge with all the garbage
was stranded and nobody would take it?” Sure, her monologue segued into her character’s rant about how she doesn’t enjoy
sex, but it certainly captures the attitude at the time, an attitude that persists with the Environmental Action Committee’s annual
waste audit. In the late 1980s, everyone was obsessed with garbage. The barge that Andie MacDowell was talking about was
the Mobro 4000, a commercial ship full of Long Island’s waste that traveled the east coast before finding someone who
would take the trash. A media circus surrounding the ship gave Americans the impression that we were running out of
landfill space. Additionally, an EPA report came out lauding the benefits of recycling. At this strange moment in time, the
American infatuation with recycling began. And why not? Recycling makes you feel good, saves our dwindling landfill space, and saves
trees! It also helps save plastics ... and plastics are made from oil, so by recycling we’re fighting the war
on terror, right? Well, unless you’re recycling aluminum cans, you’re wasting your time, your tax money, and helping to pollute
the Earth we all want to save. So why, for example, is the EAC’s guilt-inducing waste audit bunk? First, we
aren’t running out of landfill space: researchers claim it would take a thousand years to fill a 35 square mile
landfill 100 yards deep. Furthermore, many landfills, like Flushing Meadows in Queens, become parks. The modern landfill is safe, has
to conform to numerous regulations, and even produces methane gas to be used as a safe energy source. And unlike
in that “Simpsons” episode, trash isn’t going to geyser out of greens and fairways if you build a golf course
on top of a landfill. But even environmentalists say it’s not about landfills; it’s about conservation. Nevertheless, recycling petroleum products
like plastics is inefficient. We waste more gas than we save by using so many extra trucks to transport the
petroleum products. Let me reiterate that this is still efficient for metals, especially since aluminum cans are the least-recycled of
the commonly recycled products (only 47% of aluminum waste is recycled). Also, it takes a lot of employees and government
subsidies to fund paper and plastic recycling, which lose money in most municipalities. Even in New York, where an economy
of scale should have kicked in, recycling lost money when used newspapers were selling at $150 per ton in 1995,
about the highest price they ever reached. Why? Because it costs more than $200 more per ton to recycle than
use landfills. Lastly, recycling pollutes. The trucks use a lot of gas, and the process that factories use to recycle
paper introduces harmful chemicals into the environment. Creating recycled paper actually creates more pollution than making new paper. And our
trees aren’t going anywhere—we actually have more trees than we did when Teddy Roosevelt was president thanks in no small
part to the paper industry. Now, I’m not an anti-environmentalist; I was appalled when the Senate decided to drill in
the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge last month, and last summer I coordinated a press event criticizing President Bush’s EPA policies
(which are creating dangerous amounts of mercury pollution). I’m not, however, going to support an inefficient pollution-creating system just because
we’ve been indoctrinated into the recycling regime since the first day of elementary school. You may disagree with me; I’m
sure I'll get a few negative letters to the editor. Still, I encourage you to research the issue yourself. Dig
deep, and you’ll find out that most of our recycling policy is based on that one EPA report. After thinking
about it, you alone should decide what you want to pitch where. Because in the end, research and debate are
much more fulfilling than sensational images of a trash barge or a waste audit. (Columnist note: this article owes an
intellectual debt to an article entitled “Recycling is Garbage,” NYT Magazine 1996). Sam Spencer is a sophomore physics and political
science double major from Davidson, N.C. Contact him at saspencer@davidson.edu.
