16

Davidson showed off the leather, but the bats carried the Wildcats all weekend.

Are Wildcat sports underfunded?

By BRIAN HELFRICH
Senior Staff Writer

Every season, Davidson’s athletic teams battle some of the most talented and prestigious programs in the nation, and they give
this school a reason to both cheer the victories and lament the losses. The simplicity of the wins and losses,
however, fails to fully account for the achievement of our athletic programs.

What the casual fan does not realize is how difficult it is for Davidson to compete even at the level
it does now, given the financial and academic constraints put on the various teams.

Women’s Sports Scholarships

Basketball 12.00
Field Hockey 1.00
Lacrosse 12.00
Track/X-C 10.00
Total 35.00

Davidson NCAA Total Limit
2.98 11.7
11.00 13
0.60 12.6

How Many Scholarships

The wins and losses, however, fail to fully account for the achievement of our athletic programs.

What the casual fan does not realize is how difficult it is for Davidson to compete even at the level
it does now, given the financial and academic constraints put on the various teams.

Tim Dillon ‘06
Golf

Hometown: Greensboro, N.C.
Major: Economics

Along with teammate Steve Mayo ‘07, Dillon fired a team-low 219 in the three-day Southern Conference Championship, including a 71
on the final day. His performance helped the team to finish third, their best place in over 30 years. Dillon
was also the only Davidson golfer to be placed on the All SoCon second-team.

By STEPHEN J. HALLIDAY
Senior Staff Writer

It had been almost two years since the Wildcats earned a series sweep in the Southern Conference, dating back to
an April 2003 tilt with The Citadel, but Davidson erased that streak this past weekend when the ’Cats won three
straight against Appalachian State at Wilson Field.

Davidson opened the week against No. 7 UNC Chapel Hill, and the Tar Heels jumped on the Wildcats early by
plating three runs in the first against Wildcat starter Brian Packey ‘08. That three-run outburst was more than enough for
a Tar Heel staff that boasted a nation-best 2.02 team ERA coming into the game. Packey settled down after the
rough first inning, but Davidson posed little offensive threat the rest of the game in the 4-0 loss.

Davidson then returned home to host a three-game weekend series with Appalachian State on Friday, and the ’Cats looked to
move up in the conference standings and above .500 for the first time since a strong early-season run.

The ’Cats got off to a good start early against the Mountaineers on Friday, jumping out to a two-run lead
in the first inning on an Andrew Musashe ’05 double and a Jay Heafner ’06 home run. The ’Cats added
another run in the third, capitalizing on sloppy defense by the Mountaineers to take a 3-0 lead.

In the fourth inning, Appalachian State roughed up Davidson starter Andy Carter ‘05, scoring six runs on six hits and
two errors. Carter remained in the game, however, and he pitched two more shutout innings before turning it over to
the bullpen.

Trailing 6-3, the ’Cats offense refused to go away quietly, as Davidson responded with an unearned run in the bottom
of the fourth and three runs in the bottom of the fifth due to a series of Mountaineer errors. The
’Cats added another run in the bottom of the sixth off of an Eli Benefield ’06 double that scored Heafner.

See Baseball, page 15

Golf takes 3rd in SoCon tourney
See page 15

Davidson couldn’t hold final-day lead.

Regardless of whether the men’s soccer team makes the NCAA Tournament or the lacrosse team records a losing season, the
community rarely credits the performances by both the student-athletes and the coaching staffs.

Upon deeper inspection, each team’s accomplishment is a remarkable one, to say the least.

An uneven playing field

This fall, men’s soccer defeated Furman 2-1 in a thrilling overtime match-up. The box score reflects an overall dominance by
the ’Cats, including a 14-8 advantage in shots-on-goal, but the box score does not do justice to the true difference
between the two programs.

Furman is perhaps Davidson’s closest peer in the Southern Conference; a small, liberal arts college that has a strong academic
reputation and annually competitive athletic teams.

In sports, though, Furman should have a huge upper hand from the outset. In soccer, for example, Furman offers eight
total scholarships for its men’s team, just short of the 9.9 allowed under NCAA regulation. Davidson, on the other hand,
receives just over four scholarships per season for men’s soccer.

The scholarship difference is not limited to just soccer, or to just Furman, but rather to almost all Wildcat teams
and their respective opponents.

Even Davidson’s hallmark program, men’s basketball, is not funded to the same extent as most Division I programs. Believe it
or not, even the Paladins provide more scholarships to their basketball team than Davidson.

Furthermore, a large portion of Davidson’s maximum scholarship allotment requires academic success.

Men’s soccer provides 4.4 scholarships annually, but part of the monetary allotment comes from the Davidson Scholar Program, which mandates
that each recipient be in the top 50 percent of the incoming class.

“[DSP is] a great program,” said head soccer coach Matt Spear ’93. “We use our dollars not to buy players,
but rather to reward them.”

See Funding, page 13

Sam Navarro’s ’05 game-winning home run

With the game tied 8-8 in the seventh inning, Navarro launched one out of the park to give the ’Cats
a 9-8 win over Appalachian State. In the two other games of the series, Navarro went 5-7, hitting another home
run and batting in five runners.
