THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2005 7

Shelton’s sculpture in wood sure to intrigue and delight
By KATHERINE HESTER
Special Contributor

After class on Monday, I casually stroll over to the Visual Arts Center, which I have come to tenderly call “the VAC.” Sometimes it can seem like quite a hike from my usual hangout near the Union, but on this sunny, almost-spring Southern afternoon in February, I don’t mind. I know what awaits me at the end of my trek.

Throughout the spring semester, senior student art exhibits rotate through the Smith Gallery. I have come to cherish this weekly creative stimulation as a renewal of my often study-worn mind and numbed senses. This week proves to be no different. I walk into the gallery and expect to see paintings, but not this time. I am immediately confronted by an enormous wooden sculpture. The exhibit is actually in the midst of installation. At first, I am disappointed at my ill-timing, but I continue to peruse the gallery, examining these wooden structures of varying size, shape, and proportion. A waft of clean, woody, earthy scent fills my nostrils, and I breathe it in deeply.

I come back to the large sculpture that first greeted me and begin to study it more closely. It is composed of semi-circle tree trunk slices, hammered together with wooden pegs to form a swirling circular mass. I bend down and peer through the hollow center, and then circle the entire sculpture, amazed at how the artist has created such graceful, swooping curves with a hard, angular wood. My mouth gapes open at the detail and the tedious placement of each unique piece. I camp out on the cool floor of the gallery to write, and as I do so, the artist himself walks in. Who could it be, but my friend Jamie Shelton who was in my art studio class only last semester. I watch him as he gently lugs his creations into different positions. This corner? No.

Romance, D.O. Style
BY KATHRYN WYLE
Staff Writer

As you are all (more than likely) uncomfortably aware, the holiday-that-must-not-be-named rapidly approaches. Those with significant others are probably wracking their brains for some sufficiently creative declaration of love. Those of us with no one but our stuffed animals for cuddling are meanwhile busily brainstorming sufficiently creative ideas to take our minds off the pain. Luckily, the Outdoor Advisor has just the solution: to the woods, my friend!

I am relatively confident that the lovebirds at Davidson have all by now realized an unfortunate fact: the 1598 other students at Davidson make spontaneous (albeit private) displays of affection more than a little bit difficult. With your options further limited by roommates with tests and librarians who are reshelving, what’s a couple to do? One of the greatest virtues of America’s wide open spaces is their low population density. As you cuddle in your tent, listening to the “pfff” of snowflakes falling on nylon, you too will thank your lucky stars for the invention of the zip-together sleeping bag.

Recent innovations in camping gear have made the romantic evening in the great outdoors both stylish and comfortable. Your local REI has all the gear you could ever need to set the scene for the big night where she finally holds your hand. Outdoor Advisor has compiled, for all you would-be Don Juans out there, a few suggested items that can turn a cold night in the woods into a hot night of consensual, romantic s’more roasting.

A hearty, home-cooked meal is of course the first step toward winning your darling’s heart (whether male or female). If you are perhaps unfamiliar with the ins and outs of backwoods gourmet, and have missed the second annual “Cast Iron Chef” cook-off taking place at the Union amphitheatre Wednesday from 4:30-6 p.m., we highly recommend the Alpine Aire brand of camping cuisine. These pre-made, freeze-dried meals require from you only the competence to boil water. To accompany a scrumptious meal of “Wild Tyme Turkey” or “Leonardo de Fettuccini”, what better than a nice chardonnay? Stocked lake, GSI manufactures Lexan wine glasses that are virtually indestructible. A toast,perhaps? To set the scene, Davidson Outdoors gurus recommend a candle lantern: not only does it create just the right ambiance, but it also won’t set your tent on fire. Of course, the virtue of zip-together sleeping bags can never be overstated. All this, of course, begs the question, where exactly can I find that perfect sunset in a remote mountain locale, yet still less than two hours from Davidson? We recommend nearby Crowders Mountain for its lovely trails and secluded campsites (visit for more information and directions). Slightly farther afield, check out South Mountain State Park, where we hear there is a stellar waterfall that freezes in the winter. But if perhaps you are pressed for time or transportation, you can still enjoy at least the semblance of a romantic outdoor excursion while remaining within Davidson. Not having much experience in this department, we turned to nature lover Cristi Hillis ’06, who reminded us of the invaluable resource that is the Lake Campus (just don’t forget, the gate shuts at sunset!). Wellspring of information that she is, Cristi also recommends oft-forgotten Hobart Park (between Baker and Jackson Court) and the woods around Erwin Lodge as prime locations for private rendezvous. As always, the Outdoor Advisor is more than happy to help in the planning of any outdoor experience. For more advice, head down to Davidson Outdoors, where you will find a friendly staff, eager to offer advice on all aspects of camping, climbing, boating, stargazing, you name it. And with all things wild, remember to be safe. Use protection (like bug spray).

WRITE FOR ARTS. REVIEW MOVIES, THEATER, MUSIC, CAMPUS EVENTS & MORE. email sasams or elburkhead.

“Chimney” by Jamie Shelton is one of the works featured in the exhibit. Hmmm, maybe this one should be at eye-level, and this one should protrude from the wall. Yesssss, perfect. I can see it in his eyes when he finds just the right spot. I suddenly realize that there is more to art than the finished product. Process is key. This “creative process” is just as important as the completed work. How lucky I am to have stumbled upon the artist smack dab in the middle of one small portion of the creative journey: from emotion, to inspiration, to idea, to creation, and finally to exhibition. Dr. Smith stops in to offer words of encouragement and praise. “What would you say the shelf-life is on this one, Jamie?” Shelf-life? What does he mean by that, I wonder. Then it hits me. Wood decays. This art won’t last forever. It is as transient as the life from which it was created, the life of a tree. And thus the process continues, in and out of the hands of the artist. Then I look closely at all the different markings, carvings, shapes, colors, stains, indentations, and cracks in the wood. Some were created purposely by Jamie himself, while others were created by the whim of nature. A blend of complete chance and conscious intent work together to make Jamie’s work what it is, and how we the viewers experience it. Hmm, sort of how life is, I think—a mixture of the controllable and uncontrollable to form an experience that is both beautiful and real. I challenge you to make the journey to the Visual Art Center this spring. Go and allow your overworked Davidson intellect to be soothed by the presence of a different way of thinking, a different way of seeing. Open your mind to the endless possibilities that art can offer, for this time there are no wrong answers. It’s all about the journey. So go and give it a try. Even better, make it a weekly habit.

JAMIE SHELTON SCULPTURE IN WOOD
10-5 p.m. (M-F); 12-4 p.m. (Sat-Sun)
FEB. 8-14
SMITH GALLERY, VISUAL ARTS CENTER

RIBS...EAT IN OR TAKE OUT...RIBS
GOURMET FLAME-BROILED ALL-BEEF “JUMBO” HOT DOGS SERVED ON GRIDDLE TOASTED ROLLS, GERMAN BRATS, SWEET ITALIAN SAUSAGE, POLISH KIELBASA & OUR OWN PORK BAR-B-Q, BEAR'S BEST “SN” PHILLY CHEESESTEAKS & MORE
09 B SAM FURR RD-HUNTERSVILLE, NC
I-77 EXIT 25~RT #73~"EASY OFF/EASY ON"
Hours~Daily 11AM~8PM; Closed Sunday
Phone Number: (704) 895-2692
www.buzzyandbearsgrill.com