12 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2005

By MARK CLAYTON
Staff Writer

Davidson opened up PFL conference play with an impressive 48-17 victory at Valparaiso last Saturday. The ’Cats were led by quarterback Ryan Alexander ’08, who threw for a career-high 343 yards and four touchdowns. Alexander, this week’s PFL Offensive Player of the Week, and the ’Cats used a combination of big plays on offense and a stingy defense to bury the Crusaders.

The ’Cats struck first in Indiana with a 53-yard touchdown pass from Alexander to wideout Ryan Hubbard ’08. The two-point conversion failed, but the ’Cats held an early 6-0 lead. Following several stops by the Wildcat defense, the ’Cats orchestrated a 12-play drive that Brad Smith ’07 finished with a 21-yard field goal. Valpo answered with a field goal of their own on the following possession, rendering the score 9-3.

When Davidson received the ball following the ensuing kickoff, the ’Cats decided to take control of the game and started to light up the scoreboard. On a first and 10 from Davidson’s own 21-yard line, Alexander found sure-handed Jake Rice ’06 on a comeback. Rice secured the completion, moved past a Crusader defender, and took it 79 yards for the touchdown. With the ’Cats now up 16-3, the defense continued to shut down Valpo and forced the fifth of seven Crusader first-half punts.

Lightning struck again for the ’Cats following the punt. On another first and 10, Alexander found wideout Hubbard for a 73-yard touchdown. Hubbard recorded his second career 100-yard receiving game with five catches for 165 yards and two touchdowns. The air show wasn’t over just yet, as, following yet another punt, the ’Cats managed a 55-yard scoring drive. Tailback Chad Barnes ’09 ran and caught the ball to move Davidson down the field. Barnes followed up a solid performance against Lenoir-Rhyne with his first 100-yard rushing game, with 123 yards on 23 carries. The drive culminated with an Alexander 16-yard connection to Brian Purcell ’06. The ’Cats added to their point total when Yeatts Anderson ’06 found Duane Gregg ’08 in the end zone for the two-point conversion. The ’Cats explosion of 25 second-quarter points blew the game wide open. Davidson took a commanding 31-3 lead into the locker room at halftime.

“I’m really proud of the way [Alexander] is leading this team. Team Wideout had a big day on Saturday, but it’s easy with a guy like No. 10 running the show,” said Purcell.

The game wasn’t all offensive for the ’Cats. Valparaiso entered the game looking to utilize Kevin Horton—the PFL’s leader in rushing. Davidson proved to be ready to play on both sides of the ball as Horton was limited to eight yards on 11 carries. More impressive, Valpo recorded -10 yards of rushing for the entire game. There wasn’t much doing in the air for Valparaiso either. Zach Long ’08, Preston Moore ’06, Niel Andrews ’06, and Matt Easton ’09 all recorded interceptions for Davidson. These four players solidified Davidson as the leader in interceptions, with 13 total, of all Division 1-AA teams.

Davidson wasn’t done scoring at halftime.

See Football, page 10

ODU, Virginia Tech shut down the Wildcats

Will Carroll ’06 trips over an Old Dominion player as the ’Cats fall 3-0 on Saturday.

By BRENT McCormick
Staff Writer

The Wildcats knew Old Dominion was a good team, and that Saturday was going to be a big...game. Two high-scoring, nationally ranked foes squared off to see who could walk away with more momentum, and unfortunately for the ’Cats, the goals did not come. On Saturday, in front of a friendly home crowd, Davidson took to the field at Alumni Stadium in hopes of extending their winning streak to three games following a decisive win over UCF and a dominating 3-0 shutout of Jacksonville. Unfortunately, the Old Dominion team that took the field came fresh off a 3-0 thrashing of No. 4 Virginia. ODU capitalized on every Davidson mistake, and a hard-fought game turned into a 3-0 Old Dominion shutout.

“It was important to test ourselves against a fellow ranked team,” said coach Matt Spear. “Old Dominion converted their scoring chances, we did not. They were just sharper.” Despite almost identical numbers in time of possession and shots, the ’Cats could not capitalize on key opportunities, and ODU’s goalkeeper only had to record one save for the win. Davidson had 13 shots on the game (compared to ODU’s 11 shots) but struggled to put the ball where it wanted, specifically the back of the net.

“We were just a half-step too slow and a half-step too late all game, allowing them to dictate more of the play than we would have liked,” said co-captain Dave Sartorio ’06, adding, “If we had converted on any one of the many early opportunities we saw in the first half, it would have been a completely different game.”

ODU’s Brian Cvilikis proved a potent scoring threat, scoring in the ninth and 71st minutes of play, bringing his scoring streak to four straight games. “3-0 hurts, but it is something we can bounce back from easily. We’ve already left this game behind us as we head into the heart of our season,” said Preston Davis ’06, and his teammates have echoed those sentiments.

“We still need to settle down a little bit into the style of play that suits us best. We are concentrating hard this year on attacking with numbers, dangerous runs into the box, and scoring goals. We saw the fruits of our labor early on this season as we were consistently scoring 2-3 goals per game. We will win the next game,” said Sartorio.

Entering play on Tuesday, the ’Cats took their 5-2-1 record to their first ACC opponent of the season, Virginia Tech, in Blacksburg, Va. Though the first half finished in a tie at 0-0, the Hokies came out strong in the second, and following a cross from a corner kick in the 65th minute, Virginia Tech was able to score. With eight minutes left in the contest, the Hokies found the back of the net once again from a cross across the box. Ashton, who played the entire 90 minutes, ended the game with eight saves, while the opposing keeper had two. Virginia Tech outshot Davidson 14-5. Davidson will next take to the field in a home match against Wofford on Saturday.

Player of the Week
Ryan Alexander ’08
Football
Hometown: Lynchburg, Virginia
Major: Undecided

Alexander completed 15 of 20 passes for 343 yards and four touchdowns in football’s 48-17 walloping of Valparaiso last weekend. His performance earned him PFL Offensive Player of the Week honors.

Kara Koehrn’s game-winning goal

The Koehrn sisters like to make big plays. For the second time in as many weeks, one of the sisterly duo has provided late game heroics. This time, Kara Koehrn ’06 made the one and only goal in the second overtime of the ’Cats conference-opening win at Chattanooga to give Davidson the win.