THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2005 15

Lacrosse can’t stop top-ranked Northwestern

By: KATHERINE SWAIN
Staff Writer

Lacrosse lost its final conference matchup of the year last Sunday, 20-3, when the ’Cats traveled to Evanston to face
top-ranked Northwestern. A member of the ALC, Northwestern was undefeated on the season after beating powerhouses such as UNC, Duke,
and Stanford. Northwestern lived up to its reputation against Davidson.

Northwestern scored the first two goals of the game, but Davidson responded when Millie McKeachie ’05 found the back of
the net off of a free position shot at the 8:07 mark. Davidson continued to stay close for the first
15 minutes of play, as the ’Cats trailed just 3-1 with 14 minutes to go in the half, but Northwestern
ended any hopes of an upset well before halftime. The hosts rattled off 12 goals over the remainder of the
first frame, and Davidson mustered just one more goal before the half when Lindsay Frank ’05 scored off a feed
from Whitney Diefendorf ’05 with little time left on the clock.

Northwestern continued its offensive attack in the second period with an unassisted goal in the first two minutes of play,
but the Davidson defense was able to control the pace of the game considerably better after that, holding Northwestern to
just one goal in 15 minutes. Overall, Northwestern tallied five goals in the second half, but Davidson’s Kelly Finnegan ’08
scored the last goal of the game with 1:13 remaining.

Despite the loss, head coach Heather Bliss said, “It was an amazing opportunity for us to be able to play
the number-one ranked team in the nation. Not many teams can say that during their season they get to play
the best.”

The ’Cats finished the season winless in ALC play after falling to Northwestern.

Doubles streak ends as men fall twice on road

By: PIERCE TRUMBO
Staff Writer

The men’s tennis team concluded regular season play last week, losing two of three matches against SoCon opponents Appalachian State,
Furman, and Georgia Southern.

In the last home match of the year on April 13, the ’Cats held off Appalachian State, 5-2, behind continued
strong doubles play. Overall, the Wildcats won all three doubles matches. The top team of Russ Burns ’05 and Donald
Miles ’05 recorded an 8-5 victory to open play. Number two Daniel Bermeo ’06 and John Bolton ’07 then won
8-4, while Joe Cheaney ’06 and Flaviu Simihaian ’08 closed out the sweep with an 8-6 victory.

In singles competition, the ’Cats won the middle four matches to clinch the victory. Simihaian won his match at the
second position, 6-4, 2-6, 6-3, while Bolton won 6-1, 6-4 at number three. Bermeo (6-4, 4-6, 7-5) and Burns (6-4,
3-6, 6-3) then closed out the victory for the ’Cats.

Davidson next traveled to Furman on Friday, and the ’Cats had uncharacteristic trouble from the outset. For the first time
in nine matches, the team failed to capture the advantage in doubles competition. Only the tandem of Bermeo and Bolton
won a doubles match, narrowly beating their opponents for a 9-7 victory. After losing the doubles point, Davidson then lost
five of six singles matches, including four in straight sets.

On Sunday the team concluded the regular season at Georgia Southern with a 1-6 loss in a make-up match from
earlier in the season. For the first time since March 20, the ’Cats lost all three doubles matches, and in
singles competition, only Bermeo was able to earn a victory (6-1, 6-2). Miles and Chitty both led early by winning
the first sets of their respective matches, but both eventually fell in three sets as well.

The ’Cats next begin the SoCon tournament on April 21 in Charleston, S.C. against ninth-seeded Appalachian State, the same team
they recently beat 5-2.Top team in the country. “Our team held strong through the entire game. The best quality about
my team is that they will never give up. They play their hearts out until the final whistle and have
gained much respect from other teams and coaches for this trait.”

By Monica JAMOUNEAU
Staff Writer

The tennis team set aside Saturday’s upsetting loss against Furman to come back and defeat Wofford on Sunday. This weekend’s
trip to South Carolina rounded out regular play for Davidson, which enters the Southern Conference as the second seed. The
women will play the winner of the Wofford match, taking place on Thursday in Charleston, South Carolina.

At Furman, the number one doubles team of Meggie Patterson ’05 and Kelsey Linville ’08, and number three team of
Sarah Borkowski ’05 and Kim Whelan ’08, took the first point of the match and gave Davidson the early lead.
The Wildcats went on to win three and four singles points but could not score at any other position. Furman
caught up quickly, obtaining straight-set victories at the one, two, and six singles spots. The deciding point came at the
five position, when Kate Levitt ’07 lost a long three-set match to give Furman the overall win. Davidson’s only other
loss in the conference, against the College of Charleston, also finished with a score of 4-3. Furman leads the conference
and is seeded number one in the upcoming tournament. Whelan ’08 continues strong play.

Statistically, Northwestern dominated throughout, out-shooting Davidson 42-16 and controlling 20 of 25 face-offs. Still, goalie Laura Johnson ’08 had a
standout performance on the defensive end, tallying 20 saves, collecting six ground balls, and creating two turnovers. “[Johnson] had some
of the top shooters ripping the ball at her, and she stayed composed the entire game and played amazing,” said
Bliss. “We are really proud of her.”

With the loss, Davidson concluded its ALC schedule 0-6, while the ’Cats dropped to 4-10 overall on the year. Davidson
still has two non-conference games remaining this season, including a match-up with William & Mary on April 23.

Women’s tennis comes just short vs. Paladins

The Wofford match, originally set for April 11 but postponed until Sunday because of weather, ended regular season action on
a high note. It was a 7-0 victory for the Wildcats, their 13th shutout of the 2005 season and seventh
against conference rivals. Once again, the doubles point gave them the early lead, thanks to Whelan and Borkowski pulling out
a hard-fought, 9-7 win at the three doubles position. Linville and Patterson won the number two doubles match, giving them
an undefeated record in the conference at 10-0. “She [Linville] is really aggressive at the net,” said Patterson. “We had
a lot of success this year, and we really work well together.” Linville is also unbeaten in singles conference play,
and she has won 14 consecutive matches. In singles, all players won in straight sets against Wofford. Davidson ends the
season 18-5 overall, 8-2 in the Southern Conference. The women return to play on Friday in Charleston, beginning postseason play.
Said Patterson, “We want to play like we did on Sunday, coming out ready and winning the doubles point. We
need to stay consistent in singles, concentrating on getting the balls back and making them play, frustrating them.”

Peninsula China Bistro
704 987-2299
“Each entrée a masterpiece...” Heidi Edidin, “The Wandering Gourmet”
Fine Wines
Full Bar
Contemporary, Friendly Atmosphere
Reservations Accepted
Carryout — FREE DELIVERY (min $20)
19906 N Cove Rd Cornelius
Crossland Centre at Jetton Village

LUNCH HOURS
Mon-Thurs 11:30-3:00
Fri & Sat 11:30-3:00
Sun 12:00-3:00

DINNER HOURS
Fri & Sat 5:00-11:00
Sun 5:00-10:00
