THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2005

Participation, coordination themes for tsunami relief

By BEN WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

On Thursday, SGA members discussed how to both continue tsunami relief efforts while still maintaining public awareness. The SGA also
approved the new poetry club Vers Libre, chartered the Campus Revolutionaries in Action support group, and announced a new program
aimed at increasing attendance at home basketball games.

The tsunami relief effort has been ongoing throughout the semester and aims to produce funds to help support the victims
of the tsunami that hit Southeast Asia on December 26. “The SGA’s first goal with the tsunami fundraiser is to
raise money for the cause,” said Senator Wilson McCrory ’07, “but perhaps more importantly, we really want this campus as
a whole to unite behind the effort and keep those people in their thoughts.”

The SGA has been attempting to get 95 percent of the student body to pledge a dollar to the relief
effort. “It is important to raise the money for this cause, but it is just as important for us to
get the 95 percent participation from the student body to show our full support for all those that have fallen
victim to this tragedy,” said McCrory.

Participation and coordination were the two major themes of the SGA meeting. “The emphasis is on getting as many people
as possible to donate to tsunami relief,” said Senator Chris Burks ’07. The SGA also attempted to maintain public awareness
of the tsunami by creating a type of memorial, where artwork and essays relating to the tsunami will eventually be
displayed. “One worry that the SGA discussed is that relief ends soon after the memory of the disaster has faded
from peoples’ minds,” said Senator Mac Skelton ’07.

The memorial, says Skelton, will help keep the public aware and will feature a collection jar where donations can be
made in the form of money or artwork. The SGA also focused on coordinating the school’s relief efforts with the
local communities in order to be more effective. “We are trying to coordinate Davidson College’s effort with that of the
town of Davidson,” said Burks.

The “slam poetry” club Vers Libre was also approved by the SGA. “Slam poetry” refers to the competitive brand of
poetry readings where contestants read poetry and are judged based on performance and content. The SGA also chartered CRIP, a
student support group for students in wheelchairs. The organization recently renamed itself CRIP. “CRIP’s renaming came from a desire on
the part of leadership to make the name’s connotation better understood,” said Skelton. “The point is to reverse the negative
connotation of the word ‘cripple’.”

Finally, the SGA announced an attendance drive for next week’s home basketball games that looks to raise attendance. “Seeing how
our attendance at basketball games is usually abysmal, especially at women’s games, we are trying to get Patterson Court organizations
to come by offering prizes to the houses that bring the largest number of people,” said Skelton. Attendance will be
counted at the next three men’s home games and two women’s games.

Make law school a reality. Higher LSAT score guaranteed or your money back. Planning to take the June 2005 exam?
Preparation begins February 20th on the Davidson College Campus. Only Kaplan provides complete preparation for the LSAT. Call or visit
us online today. Test Prep and Admissions 1-800-KAP-TEST kaptest.com/lsat *LSAT is a registered trademark of the Law School Admission Council.
**Conditions and restrictions apply. For complete guarantee eligibility requirements, visit kaptest.com/hsg. The Higher Score Guarantee only applies to Kaplan courses
taken and completed within the United States and Canada.

Sub-free, continued from page 1

ideals of our institution and the personal experiences of the students that comprise it.” RLO randomly selected the focus group
participants from a list of students who have lived in sub-free housing and a list of those who have not.
Although turnout in the first set of focus groups was low, Marsicano hopes that there will be more participation in
the set that will be conducted this week. “We are trying to find out how much of an issue it
is with the student body,” she said. “There are some people who feel very strongly that there should be sub-free
housing, and there are some people who feel very strongly that there should not be.”

Skelton believes that sub-free housing is an issue that is important to Davidson students. “With the survey going out soon,
and focus groups convening one more time, sub-free housing is inevitably going to be a hot topic.”of debate in the
coming weeks. I would urge students to be open-minded and to spend some time thinking about the issue before jumping
to conclusions. Students must be willing to sacrifice personal preferences for the good of the whole community,” he said.

According to committee member Steve Gaultney ’07, however, it will be difficult for the committee to make changes without upsetting
some people. “Anyone on a sub-free hall their freshman year most likely had the best experience ever, they do not
know what they would have done without sub-free housing, it changed their lives, or whatever,” Gaultney said. “Conversely, anyone not
on a sub-free hall freshman year, even those who do not drink, will say that they too would not trade
their freshman hall experience for anything. The point is, there are a lot of toes to step on, and any
decision will be very difficult, but we will attempt to make our recommendation based on an objective evaluation of what
is best for the student body.”

Any decision recommended by the committee will have to be made before the middle of February, when RLO will begin
the lottery system for next year’s housing.

Substance-Free Housing

FOR
- Bonding with similar lifestyles and avoiding uncomfortable lifestyles
- Sub-free halls are considered quieter and cleaner
- Students didn’t want to feel obligated to care for a friend or roommate who drank too much
- Students with a history of alcoholism in the family don’t want to have to deal with the problem here
- Some students are more attracted to schools with a sub-free option
- Parental concerns
- Potential religious objections
- Underage drinking is illegal and some students don’t want to be confronted with illegal behavior

AGAINST
- Campus is prevented from being a more diverse environment
- Creates a potential divide between sub-free and non-sub-free students
- Raises housing lottery issues
- Some parents choose sub-free housing for their sons/daughters
- Problems with enforcement: substance use is still an issue in sub-free housing
- Forms housing stereotypes
- Having sub-free halls implies that other halls are substance-permitted
- Polarized living conditions: Lack of moderation may create extreme living environments in both types of dorms

Boost in Pell Grant unlikely to affect Davidson recipients
By Leslie Hempson
Senior Staff Writer

The U.S. Department of Education announced last month that it was changing the formula used to determine undergraduates’ eligibility for
Pell Grants, a change that Senior Associate Dean of Admission and Financial Aid Kathleen Stevenson said was unlikely to have
a major impact on Davidson students.

The Pell Grant program, a key source of federal financial aid to college students, currently provides over five million undergraduates
with between $400 and $4,050 in grants per year. According to the American Council on Education (ACE), the self-proclaimed “major
coordinating body for all the nation’s higher education institutions,” almost 90,000 students will lose their Pell Grants when the change
comes into effect this fall. Another 1.3 million will see their aid reduced by an estimated $100 to $300.

Education Department officials, criticized by some Congressional Democrats for their recalculation of the financial aid formula, maintained that they were
only following the law. The Higher Education Act requires that the department update every year the guidelines families must follow
when applying for aid. Before December 23, however, the department had not updated its tax deduction formula since 1994. An
Education Department spokesperson cited in the Chronicle of Higher Education explained that her department had been unable to get hold
of the necessary data until very recently.

Although the students most likely to be affected by this change did not receive large Pell Grants to begin with,
the ACE website suggests that such individuals will “work longer hours, borrow more money, or reduce their academic course load
in order to compensate for any loss of funds.” It is doubtful, though, that many students will drop out of
college entirely.

Opponents of the change insist that the Education Department employed faulty data when recalculating its formula. They argue that taxes
in many states have actually increased since 2002, the last year for which the department has tax data. Supporters disagree
that the department’s calculations are faulty, pointing out that tax data from 2002 is far more pertinent to the present-day
than the 1988 data used in the 1994 revision. Besides, the Pell Grant program is already suffering from a $4.3-billion
deficit. The updated formula will reduce that shortfall by approximately $300-million.

President Bush proposed on Jan. 14 that Congress increase the maximum Pell grant by $100 annually for each of the
next five years. The measure, which would cost $15-billion, See Pell, page 4
