5 ee

Warm weather hurts Knit-a-thon participation

See Page 2

Pothead declares Great American Smokeout to be ‘totally sweet’

SEE PAGE 4

Student protests ITS dial-out number switch

See Page 5

Sophomore guesses wrong amount when answering ‘Found Money’ ad in Crier, arouses suspicion

See Page 8

Studies show one-page Yowl offends only half as many people

SEE PAGE 13

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Editors:
Bobby Kenner
Jeff Yeakel

These people did not contribute at all:
Nathan Bradshaw
Brent McCormick

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editors at bokenner@davidson.edu or jeyeakel@davidson.edu.

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

November 16, 2005

Patterson Court members are in an outrage over the long-standing, but only recently enforced, rule that restricts the number of weekday parties. The Red Book explicitly states that no more than two weekday registered parties may be held on the Court in any given week, although this had rarely been imposed until a few weeks ago. Many fraternity and eating house members blame the restriction on the unpopular new alcohol policy, but others are pointing their fingers in a different direction.

“It’s them gosh-darned Indians causing trouble again,” said local farmer and conspiracy theorist Lonzo McIntyre. “You college kids: do your devil dancin’ on their burial ground, and they’re madder than I seen ’em since the 60s.”

McIntyre is referring to the old myth that Patterson Court is built on an ancient Native American burial ground. Some in the community believe that student partying has angered the spirits of those buried beneath the Court, and that Davidson administrators are doing all that they can to cover it up.

“The two-party rule was written in the fall semester of 1961,” said History professor Mary Jammer. “Newspaper articles from around that time detail complaints of strange noises coming from Patterson Court and erratic behavior among students.”

“Thou who party more than twice, shall experience things not nice.”

Jammer said that after the two-party rule was implemented, the noises stopped and student behavior, more or less, returned to normal. It appears that even spirits feel they are entitled to some quiet hours.

“One article describes a warning that is supposedly etched into one of the bricks on the Court sidewalk,” said Jammer. “It is said to read, ‘Thou who party more than twice, shall experience things not nice.’ I have inspected the walkways meticulously and have yet to find it.”

Jammer suggested recent renovations may have covered up or removed the prophetic brick.

Members of the Davidson administration dismissed the burial ground theories as preposterous. “The idea that school rules could be altered to cater to the spirits of dead Native Americans is just completely ridiculous,” said PCC director Fay Tanner. “The restriction on impromptu parties is necessary to protect students from the evil remains of the dead Indians. Wait, I didn’t mean dead Indians, I meant alcohol abuse. Not dead Indians.”

Even alumni have taken a stand on the issue. Class of 1948 alum Walt Cratchford takes particular offense to the idea that administrators could be succumbing to the whims of non-alumni, while his demands are consistently unfulfilled. “It’s just so typical of this liberal administration. Listen, this is a school built on Christian values, and if we’re going to change rules to accommodate any dead guys around here then they had better be Presbyterian.”

PCC members seem unfazed by reports that the two-party rule may have been implemented to shield students from angry, awakened apparitions. Presidents of court houses have signed a petition to revoke the rule, and they do not seem to be backing down from their stance.

The brothers of Pi Kappa Alpha blatantly flouted the rule last Wednesday night when they had an unregistered party at their house. The party eventually had to be shut down when the basement flooded with blood and students on the back porch were forced to take cover from falling arrowheads, decorative headdresses, and dreamcatchers.

Last week the EAC did its annual waste audit to find out just how much recyclable material the Davidson community was throwing away. While they did find plenty of reusable items, they also found several unique items that Davidson students had thrown away. Here are a few:

- Web Tree worksheets
- Knives
- Cat Cupps
- Football playoff tickets
- Goose carcass
- Covers of the new phone directories
- Garbage juice
- Artist Series DVD promos
- WALT schedule
- ‘The Awakening’ by Kate Chopin
- Lead singer of Better Than Ezra
- Oscar the Grouch
- Pieces of green chairs
- Controversial Yowl articles
- ITS 8+1 Coasters