THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2005

Future of China and global democracy

China’s rise to power should give us pause. It has now been 56 years since China’s communist revolution, and it is now more powerful than ever. It is an immense country, with an equally immense population, and a tremendous economy. In 2004, China’s economy grew by a rate of over nine percent. Its Gross Domestic Product was over $7 trillion. And it continues to grow. Many experts believe, as do many Americans, that China will overtake the United States economically in the next century. If this comes to pass, we, as Americans, will have to rethink and more importantly reinvigorate our role in the world.

The People’s Republic of China is a communist state. Their citizens do not have anything approximating the political power we in the United States take advantage of and lack many of the rights and liberties we enjoy. A recent example would be a law China’s government passed restricting the dissemination of news across the internet. The Chinese people or, I should say, some of the Chinese people, may look past the restrictions placed on their rights and liberties and enjoy the economic success that has come with a rudimentary free market system. That is a significant problem, not only for the Chinese, but for all the world. For if China can succeed economically, without protecting rights and liberties and instituting a real democratic government, what impact will that have on the rest of the globe? What if developing nations begin to follow China’s path and not America’s? What if humanity embraces the free market, while neglecting the ideas embodied in the Declaration of Independence? I am exaggerating, but you can see the essential problem.

In President Reagan’s farewell address, he warned against the eradication of the American spirit, and I think his warning is as true today as it was then. Indeed, I think much of the time people do not fully grasp the unique and rare opportunities that democracy has offered us. For all of us, democracy and its effects are common, almost imperceptible. Democracy, though, is a rare and fragile institution. Throughout all of human history, dictatorship and monocracy were the norm; democracy was the exception. This new era in human history, an era in which we have spread democracy across the globe, is to be revered. But we should not be complacent. We should not accept democracy’s victory as certain or inevitable. The previous democracies, as great and as special as they were, all fell into the dustbin of history.

We have to remember that our country is still a shining city on a hill. It is still a bastion of freedom and a place where liberty is protected. And that makes us unique. Just because the Nazis were defeated and the Cold War is over does not mean the threats to democracy have stopped. It is a constant struggle, requiring the renewed vigor and commitment of each generation.

We must make sure that the examples of China, Russia, and others do not become the standard. We must make sure that even if China surpasses us economically, the rest of the world embraces the principles the founding fathers affirmed. If democracy is to survive and last, humanity as a whole must cherish it. This is not an immediate problem, however, and, God willing, it will never become a problem. We hope that China will reform itself. In addition, our country and its institutions are strong, democracies across the world are resilient, and the principles of freedom and liberty are enduring.the world are strong, and democracy as an institution has arguably never been stronger. Nevertheless, we have to be ready for the day when we are no longer number one. We need to bring back the notion of collective security with a different twist. We need a band of democracies, united for the purpose of protecting that for which so many strove, for so long.

Matt Hall is a senior history major from Bennington, Vt. Contact him at mthall@davidson.edu.

---

Searching for a sane alcohol policy

The routine has already become old, and I’ve only been here for a month. I have been informed and lectured on the subject of alcohol more than I ever thought was possible. The taboo surrounding underage student drinking affects almost all colleges and universities in America in some way. Here at Davidson, a double standard on the issue seems to me at the same time both understandable and absurd.

When I first visited Davidson last spring, a man with several strong connections to this place gave me the short history of the school’s alcohol policy. When he was a student in mid-century, the campus was dry and underage drinking strictly prohibited by the Honor Code—esteemed equally then as now. When this policy ended up encouraging off-campus parties and drunk driving, a cautious and pragmatic administration modified the rules to reflect the spirit that part of the Code of Responsibility now embodies.

My current understanding of the policy is that the administration knows students will drink and wants to protect their health. Colleges today fall into a strange social position somewhere between rogue authoritarianism and safety zone. Nobody would want the administration to prescribe a social ethic on drinking or any other issue, yet the school, and more specifically the police on campus, are legally bound to enforce the laws of North Carolina. Our parents entrust our health and education to the school, all expecting to a certain degree that their various notions of morality will be enforced by the administration. Yet as a liberal institution of higher learning, college has a special role in modern society and in our individual lives as a place for experimentation, mistake-making, and growth.

STEPHEN KALIN

This special role is what makes Davidson’s policy so absurd. The official policy must be in accord with the law of the land, and so it is. Yet from numerous sources we learn that underage drinking is tolerated so long as it does not generate secondary problems—although there are plenty of those. The rule is in the Code of Responsibility, which is closely related to the same Honor Code that garners such respect from most of the Davidson family. And yet every day, the rule is flouted without dismay. I have to admit, this paradox confused me for a substantial part of freshman orientation including the honor signing ceremony. The double standard on the issue seems to me at the same time both understandable and absurd.

Since that ceremony, when I seriously considered whether I could sign the Honor Code in good conscience given its apparent lapse in logic, I have come to admire the document and the open-minded administration that implements it. Coming from the North, I confess that I had some preconceptions about the South as a place of intolerance and uncompromising standards. However, I have been pleasantly surprised by the deftness with which Davidson handles the difficult situation of underage drinking. As a student, I am honored and impressed by the concern shown on this matter by the administration. I feel we all have a responsibility to reciprocate this act of trust and concern by drinking and acting responsibly. But I won’t lecture on that old routine.

Stephen Kalin is a freshman from Tappan, N.Y. Contact him at stkalin@davidson.edu.