10 Test “Okay”
R.L. STINE
GOOSEBUMPS

Translation read in French class
SEE PAGE 10

Spanish quotation in away message shows student’s sense of culture
SEE PAGE 8

Ladies Night extremely intimidating
SEE PAGE 5

Student spends night on Union couch
SEE PAGE 5

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2005

UBI ORTA HUMOR_ UBERTAS

THE DAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

No...no...notorious
SGA election ends with candidate pull-out

Union piano

In the midst of one of the most heated Davidson College elections of recent memory, Stephen Wright ’06 announced that
he had decided to pull his name from the ballot.

“It just got to be too much. I want to thank everyone who was a part of this campaign. I
believe we were fighting for something good, and we have no reason to hang our heads. I’m sure that Mr.
Martin will do an excellent job as our Senior Senator.”

Davidson College Election rules stipulate that no candidate may spend over $15 on their campaign, but Hank Martin ’06 accused
Wright of spending in excess of $40 or $50.

Wright, who was running for Senior Class Senator, dropped out of the race amidst allegations of overspending from the rival
Hank Martin ’06 for Senate camp.

“I’m out,” said Wright on Friday in a prepared statement read in the Duke Family Performance Hall. “It’s ludicrous. We
can’t keep playing by the rules,” said Martin before hearing of his opponent’s withdrawal from the race.

Suspicions, and public allegations, of fiscal infractions began surfacing from the Martin camp soon after the election took a turn
towards negative advertising.

Basketball team loses scholarships

The College announced late today that men’s basketball scholarships will be cut at the end of the year because of
a lack of visible progress towards a national powerhouse team. Among the noted missed goals were the failures to beat
Duke and to make the NCAA tournament.

Davidson College president Frank Baum spoke of the disappointment in not reaching the NCAA tournament. “We figured before the season
that, at the very least, we would be an eighth seed in the tournament. But, to not even make the
tournament this year was painful for all of us. Finally, I sat down with the athletic director and we made
the difficult decision to cut scholarships.”

A pattern had been noticed in the alumni donations to the athletic program before the NCAA selection and afterwards. Because
of the excitement that the men’s basketball season had generated, alumni donations to the program had gone up 130 percent
in the last year. After discovering that Davidson was not going to be in the NCAA tournament, donations to the
athletic department have dropped to zero.

Men’s basketball coach Ty Rogers discussed the prospect of the season without scholarships: “I understand it will be tougher to
get recruits here now without the lure of scholarships, but I am confident in my team’s ability to overcome adversity
and make the NCAA tournament next year.”

When asked about the prospect of playing next year without a scholarship, star forward John Waters ’06 stated, “Yeah right,
man. I can’t pay $40,000 to go here. I guess I will be transferring somewhere else.” Point guard Bobby Stuart
’07 spoke along the same lines. “I don’t think anyone is going to stay here if they’re not getting paid
to play. At least, I’m not. I’ve already filled out the paperwork.”

“It will be tough when we play scholarship schools like Wofford, but I’m sure we will get through it.”

While the prospects for next season look bleak, Davidson basketball still has at least one fan. Stephanie Young ’07, head
of the Davidson Cat Pack, spoke about supporting the team. “I’m still going to be the crazy red-faced fanatic that
cheered the team when they had scholarships. It will be tough when we play scholarship schools like Wofford and Furman,
but I’m sure we will get through it.”

A Jiff of Jeff...

I failed my Dewey Decimal System test...
Now I'll NEVER work at the Library of Congress!

Why are you so sad?
Now I know the true meaning of Christmas.

Wright’s highly popular “Wright for You” campaign was forced to switch directions when Martin’s “Wrong for Us” campaign gained traction.a
good day for Hank Martin, a good day for Davidson, and a good day for democracy.” Flyers spread all over
campus, thus sending the campaign into a tailspin of negative advertising. “I thought that it was extremely inappropriate for Mr.
Martin to attack Stephen in such a manner,” said Wright’s campaign manager, Lyle Duff ’06, about his rival’s mudslinging tactics.
“There is no reason to stoop to that level, even in such a high-profile race as this one.” The two
sides traded barbs for the next four days as campus was littered with flyers from “Hank Martin is Sub-Free,” to
“Stephen Wright is unfaithful to his girlfriend.” Finally, the posters culminated in Martin putting up a poster saying “Stephen Wright
only got into this school because he’s an athlete,” and Wright responding with an “Everybody knows that athletes don’t get
help with admissions at Davidson” poster. Dean of Elections Wesley Young said that the election was the most intense that
he had ever seen at Davidson. “I’ve been running elections for over 40 years at Davidson, and I’ve never seen
it like this. Of course, there was always the occasional ‘He’s a drunk,’ or ‘He’s a carpetbagger,’ but what these
young men were saying had some teeth.” Election observer Dr. Lee Insel agreed that the election was extremely hard-fought. “These
partisan politics need to end, especially during trying times such as these. With the school already overcommitted to renovations of
the F apartment and Duke Dormitory at the same time and carrying huge budget deficits, the infighting will severely hurt
us both economically and in relations with other colleges.” As the election neared, cries of overspending from the Martin camp
got louder. One of Martin’s staffers, Jane Leigh ’08, said what Wright was doing was obvious. “You're telling me that
you’re spending less than $15 and printing flyers on the kind of extremely high-quality thick stock paper that they were
using? I’m a trusting person, but I’m not stupid.” Wright has never confirmed or denied the allegations, but the look
on his face at his concession speech indicated remorse. “We never wanted to hurt anyone,” Wright said tearfully. “We just
wanted extended meal plan hours.” According to the most recent polls, Hank Martin is now the clear favorite to win
a seat in the SGA senate and is expected to gain enough votes to carry the title of president. Upon
hearing that Wright was dropping out of the race, Martin said, “It’s a good day for Hank Martin, a good
day for Davidson, and a good day for democracy.”

The Davidsonian actually on automatic

After Friday’s electrical surge, it was discovered that the piano on the third floor of the Alvarez Student Union is
actually an automatic “player piano.” Said witness Peter Lyle ’07, “I was in the Union at about 10 p.m. on
Friday, when all the lights went out for a brief moment. When they turned back on, there was a loud
beeping noise, and the piano just started playing by itself.” He continued, “I then saw the Union desk worker run
over to the piano and flip some switch underneath it, after which it stopped playing.” When reached for comment, Union
Supervisor Jack Lux stated, “At this time, we admit that yes, the piano is automatic. We apologize for any perception
of deceit, and we do admit that in hindsight, we should have told the student body, especially those who actually
believed that they were playing the piano. But, we got a great deal on it, because it only plays five
songs, all of them poorly and out of tune.” Campus reactions were mixed. Remarked Jess Wilder ’05, “I just think
it’s strange that people would sit down and pretend to play the piano. I still don’t know why they would
want to be seen pretending to be playing some terrible song and annoying everyone in the Union.” Phil Lazarus ’07
echoed her statements. “I was always wondering why there would only be four or five songs ever played. Now it
all makes sense. I just wonder if the Karaoke in the Union was lip-synching as well. There goes all my
trust in the school.” According to the administration, there are no plans to change the piano or upgrade it to
a better model.

THE YOWL
Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Whatever:
Bobby Kenner
Jeremy Bloxson
Alana Vaughn

Editor:
Brendan Parets

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editor at brparets@davidson.edu

Note: If you haven't been living in a cave for the past year, then you should know that the Yowl
is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.
