THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sex is a lot of fun. Because of this, many Davidson students often seem clueless about how to prepare for
it. It’s out of our nature to just jump into something (a bed, for example) without first being knowledgeable on
the topic. Should I read about sex? Do online research? Talk with my guy or gal pals first?

This is not entirely bad, of course. As several freshmen men demonstrated in a recent Libertas article, it may be
important to know basic anatomical features before one seduces someone. It is definitely important, too, to be prepared in all
the important ways: condoms, spermicide, and smooth pick-up lines.

But we should not be so prepared that the allure of sex—its magic, if you will—is gone. We need not
be reductive. Sure, you can call sex merely a physical act between people who, hopefully, like each other. Sure, it’s
a step (or base?) in the emotional development of loving couples, somewhere between necking and retirement.

But it’s more. And many of us aren’t prepared to accept this or even allow it into our imagination. This
contrasts with so much of the typical Davidsonian’s character.

On the whole, Davidson students are a prepared, articulate bunch of people. More often than not, we do our homework
and readings (sometimes even before class). We have been known to be insightful, and, on good days, some of us
even go above and beyond what’s required of us. We study more than we’d care to let friends at other
schools know, and many of us secretly enjoy the academic stimulation a rigorous school like Davidson provides.

Sex, however, involves a different kind of preparation that many Davidson students have not yet learned. It’s a depth that
an introductory level class cannot provide. The Court provides variety, but it less frequently provides meaningful relationships, sobriety, or satisfying
sex.

The possibility of what we want sex to mean seems simultaneously necessary and impossible. It’s got to be more than
just the physicality of it, which is not particularly attractive, really.

The emotional significance cannot be it, either, because surely love can exist without sex, or else wispy old age may
be more depressing than I imagine.

We want sex to be a wonderful and consensual combination of the physical and the emotional, sometimes more of one
than the other. We are not often prepared for this, though. Seldom is a syllabus provided, and even more rarely
is there a trustworthy advisor.

But Davidson has something to offer us regarding sex, and Georgia Ringle is only a part of it. In fact,
the same group discussions and one-on-one relationships that Davidson nurses in the classroom should also foster an on-campus dialogue on
sex. This place thrives on creativity and individuality, but so many of us refuse to explore our sexualities for whatever
reason.

We need to do less intellectualizing about sex and more experimenting. Less discussion of coitus and copulation, more of lovemaking
and making nookie. Fewer Saturday nights spent doing homework, more nights spent getting to know others romantically, with or without
sex. Less giggling at the word “penis,” more screaming the word “vagina” (thanks, Vagina Monologues!). Fewer trivial discussions, more meaningful
dialogue. Here I am, Davidson. Let’s talk.

Seductively,
Dr. Secksgawd.

Editor’s Note: Dr. Secksgawd is a new addition to Arts & Living, seeking to raise important issues and to answer
questions about sex in general or at Davidson. Got questions? Email davidsonian@davidson.edu

Wild about breasts

By Kim NEWTON
Health Advisor

For the women on campus, breasts are a part of daily life.

In fact, we are approaching an age where the number of years we have had breasts (yes, those mosquito bites
you had when you turned 11 count) are almost equal to the number of years we didn’t have them. For
heterosexual males, I guess it is a widespread wish that breasts were part of a daily routine.

Breasts on a college campus are seen in two very different ways: one, as fun and sexual objects, and the
other as something that is just there—something to fill out a shirt. Why the dichotomy between sensational and mundane?

On March 8 at 7 p.m. in Hance Auditorium (formerly Perkins), Dr. Katherine Dettwyler, a renowned nutritional anthropologist, is coming
to Davidson to talk about just that—how American society views breasts.

Some might wonder why a nutritional anthropologist would be interested in breasts. For the majority of human evolution, our first
meal was breast milk. The human breast is simple in purpose; that purpose being to produce milk for babies. Did
you know that breast tissue triples in mass during late pregnancy and immediately post-birth? Ladies, you will finally be the
full voluptuous C you always dreamed about when you were 13!

Dettwyler’s research focuses on how the cultural displays and society’s views of breasts are integral as women begin to make
decisions regarding infant feeding methods, i.e., breastfeeding vs. formula feeding.

Granted, infant feeding decisions seem far off when you are down at a Court party on a Friday night, but
studies show that women and men make decisions regarding child rearing long before they even begin to think of starting
a family. Within the next 10 to 15 years, most of us and our siblings will be starting families and
having to think about these issues.

To be better lovers, husbands, wives, sisters, brothers, and friends, we need to be aware of the issues surrounding even
something as simple as feeding your kids.

Come on out on March 8 if for no other reason than to hear someone say “breasts” about 50 million
times.

All Students, Faculty, and Staff receive 20% off with CatCard!
