2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2005

Alum speaks on work to resolve Greensboro conflict
By Katie GILLESPIE
Senior Staff Writer

Sunday night, Jill Williams ’99, former assistant director of the Theological Exploration of Vocation program, returned to Davidson to share her experiences working as Executive Director for the Greensboro Truth and Reconciliation Commission, the first of its kind in the United States. The commission is attempting to bring resolution to a community that was stunned when, on November 3, 1979, Klansmen and American Nazi Party members killed five labor organizers at a “Death to the Klan” rally in front of local television news crews.

“Our mandate is to examine the causes, sequence, and consequences and to make recommendations and a final report as to how the community can move forward to reconciliation and make sure that nothing like this happens again,” Williams said. “We are interviewing and doing documentary work and education outreach and building trust with groups that might have reason not to trust the commission.”

Williams was joined by Smith College student Chelsea Marshall, who serves as Public Hearings Coordinator of the commission and is in charge of organizing the four public hearings that will be held over the summer, as well as multiple focus groups for targeted communities. The event was organized by Sanctuary, a Christian social justice organization headed by Nicole Mader ’06 and Laura Boston ’06.

“There was a connection to social justice, and it seemed to be an issue that not many people would know about and that there would be a lot of interest about,” Mader said.

Williams got involved with the commission after sending her résumé to a professor at UNC Charlotte, who then informed her of the job opportunity in Greensboro. “I have a Master’s degree in conflict resolution, and I was doing work on race relations with the sustained dialogues at Davidson,” Williams said. “I sent an email to a professor at UNCC, and he told me to send him my résumé.”

As Executive Director, Williams oversees the entire commission and handles fundraising and community engagement. Marshall was inspired to work for the commission after participating in a reconciliation and development program in South Africa last semester. “My sister graduated from Guilford and was living in Greensboro,” Marshall said. “She set me up with the commission. I was there for two weeks, and I decided that I couldn’t let something like this happen in our country. I took a semester off, and Jill hired me pretty quickly.”

The commission is based on the concept of restorative justice and Ubuntu, a South African philosophy of humanism and coexistence. It follows a South African model that investigated human rights abuses resulting from the apartheid system.

“We just have to model for them that we really are interested in listening and hearing from the community. People just want to talk, and they have so much to say on this issue.” --Jill Williams ’99

“The differences from the South African commission are that we don’t have subpoena power and amnesty power because we’re not government-supported,” said Marshall. “It gives us the opportunity to get people to trust us because they’re not forced to come through subpoena or offered amnesty. They’re invited to testify.”

The nonobligatory nature of the commission, however, makes it difficult to compel

See Williams, page 3

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

3/15 College Union
Suspicious Person
Police received a report that a suspicious man had been seen photographing male and female students by Knobloch. An employee had approached the man, whosaid he was just taking pictures of “campus life.” The suspect left before police arrived, but is described as a heavy-set white male in his mid-twenties with brown hair.

3/15 Clay Tennis Court Animal Control
Cynthia MacDonald of the University of Canterbury will speak on “The Metaphysics of Mental Causation” on March 29 at 4:30 p.m. in Room 313 of the Union.

Math/Biology Lecture
Karen Schlauch of George Mason University will speak on “Bioinformatics: Using Math to Answer Biological Questions” on March 31 at 4:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Biology Lecture
David Walters of the University of North Carolina at Charlotte will talk about Smart Growth, urban planning, and related environmental issues on March 31 at 7 p.m. in the Sprinkle Room of the Union.

Jazz Ensemble Concert
The Davidson College Jazz Ensemble will perform on April 1 at 8 p.m. in the Duke Family Performance Hall.

The House of Yes
The Theatre Department will present The House of Yes, a play written by Wendy MacLeod and directed by Ryan Hastings ’05, from April 1-5 at 7:30 p.m. in the Black Box Theatre of the Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Tickets are $4.

Le Flaine
University of South Carolina will speak on “Application of High-Performance Mass Spectrometry in Environmental Toxicology” on April 1.

A dead raccoon was found in the Clay Tennis Court and was reported to police. An officer noticed that the animal’s teeth had been hung up by the metal fencing. Animal control responded to the scene and disposed of the animal.

3/18 Martin Court Disturbance
An officer heard the sounds of firecrackers coming from Martin Court and found three intoxicated men behind Ryburn. The officer saw one man throw a firecracker in the direction of Ryburn while another threw a bottle into the wall. The students were cooperative and the officer asked them to return to their rooms for the night.

3/18 Belk Dormitory Drug/Alcohol Possession
Police received a call stating that a student had smelled marijuana coming from another student’s room. In this room police found one marijuana pipe, one small bag of marijuana seeds, one small bag of marijuana stems, a plate with marijuana residue, three packets of rolling papers, two half-gallon containers of whiskey, two half-gallon containers of vodka, one half-gallon container of rum, one pint of Kahlua, one pint of Captain Morgan's, 15 cans of Coors Light beer, and two cans of Guinness beer. All alcohol, drugs, and paraphernalia were destroyed.

3/19 Chambers Building Crime Prevention
While on patrol, an officer found four students watching a movie on the fourth floor of Chambers. The officer informed the students that no one was allowed in Chambers after 1 a.m. The students left without incident.

3/20 Patterson Court Intoxicated Pedestrian
Officers were dispatched to Warner Hall in reference to an intoxicated person, a guest of a Davidson student. However, when students had informed the subject that the police were on their way, he ran off. Later that night, he was found passed out in a student’s room and the medic was called. The subject was violent and belligerent toward the medic and had to be restrained with handcuffs and arrested by police. The subject was then transported to Carolinas Medical Center for treatment.

3/20 Martin Court Fire Alarm
Police responded to a fire alarm that had been activated in F Apartments. After speaking to the occupants of the room that had set off the alarm, it was determined that the use of a DJ-style fog machine was the cause of the alarm activation. When the alarm went off, however, the owner of the machine had left the scene and taken the machine with him. No damage was reported.