THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2005 13

Tennis combines for 4-0 start in conference; falls to nationally-ranked Johns Hopkins and Penn State

By Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

After successfully kicking off Southern Conference action last week with a home doubleheader against Elon, Davidson’s men’s and women’s tennis
teams rode the momentum from their early-week victories to a combined 5-1 record by the end of the weekend. While
the women followed up their victory over Elon on Tuesday with consecutive road wins over conference foes Chattanooga and Western
Carolina, the men took a break from SoCon action, splitting home matches with non-conference foes James Madison and Army.

Fresh off a Florida spring break trip during which they went 3-1, the women hosted Elon on Tuesday for their
first SoCon match of the season. The Phoenix proved to be of little difficulty for the Wildcats, as Davidson swept
through every match easily in straight sets for a 7-0 win. The women then took several days off before traveling
to Tennessee for a Saturday match against a Chattanooga team that would again offer the ’Cats little resistance. Davidson again
swept its conference opponent for a 7-0 win, losing no more than six games in any match. On their way
home from Chattanooga on Sunday, the Wildcats stopped for a quick match at Western Carolina. Picked to finish last in
the conference in preseason polls, the Catamounts were unable to improve on the results of the Wildcats’ previous two opponents.
Davidson coasted to another 7-0 win, posting 6-0, 6-0 victories in three of the six singles matches. The victory marked
Davidson’s sixth consecutive victory, bringing its season record to an impressive 10-3 and its conference record to 3-0.

The men were equally successful in their half of the doubleheader with Elon on Tuesday. After losing to the Phoenix
the last two seasons, the ’Cats were looking forward to this match against the SoCon rival. The Wildcats got off
to a quick start, winning two of the three doubles matches to earn the doubles point. Carrying that momentum into
the singles matches, Davidson won three of the first four singles matches to clinch a 5-2 victory.

Against James Madison on Friday at the Covington Courts, Davidson again started well. John Bolton ’07 and Daniel Bermeo ’06
won 8-2 at the number two doubles position, and Joe Cheaney ’06 and Flav Simihaian ’08 cruised to an 8-3
win at number three, clinching the doubles point for the ’Cats. Davidson went on to sweep the singles matches against
the Dukes, the most notable of which was Donald Miles’ (’05) win at the top singles spot. After losing the
first set to the Dukes’ top player, a talented transfer from Virginia Tech, Miles rallied to win the second set
in a tiebreaker and eventually won the match in a third set super tiebreaker. The 7-0 victory gave the team
confidence heading into its Sunday home match against Army, Davidson’s first-ever match against the 74th-ranked Black Knights. The Wildcats came
out fighting in the doubles matches, as Miles and Russ Burns ’05 earned a victory at the top spot, and
Cheaney and Simihaian cruised to an 8-3 win at number three, clinching the doubles point for the ’Cats.

Lacrosse recently traveled to Johns Hopkins and Penn State

By KATHERINE SWAIN
Staff Writer

Lacrosse recently traveled to the nationally-ranked Johns Hopkins and Penn State.

Dillon leads ’Cats to seventh-place finish at home

By JEFF HAMILTON
Staff Writer

The golf team played its finest round of the spring season on March 13 to close out the 2005 Birkdale
Collegiate Classic with a four-man score of 292 en route to a seventh-place finish overall in the field of 15
teams. The Wildcats totaled a 902 mark (302-308-292) for the tournament and were paced by Tim Dillon ’06, whose individual
performance earned him a tenth-place finish in the field. The Charlotte 49ers won the event, shooting a tournament-record 852 for
the three rounds and blowing away the runner-up Virginia Cavaliers by 24 strokes. On a sparkling 75-degree day in Huntersville,
Dillon closed out the tournament with a three-under 69 on the 7,013-yard track to give him a 221 (77-75-69) total.
The 69 tied his best round of the year, matching a score he posted in the fall season at the
Fall Beach Classic in Alabama.

Men’s tennis avenged a two-year losing streak to Elon, but fell 5-2 to Army.Simihaian won their fourth straight match together
at number three. The early 1-0 advantage for Davidson did not last for long, though, as Army took the first
set in five of the six singles matches, eventually winning each of the five en route to a 5-2 win.
“We were hoping to come in and knock off a ranked team,” said assistant coach Scott Briggs, “but we didn’t
get the singles performances of our previous two matches.” Still, the win over Elon last week leaves the Davidson men
with a 1-0 SoCon record, and there are several crucial conference matches to come this week. After matches against The
Citadel, East Tennessee State, and Chattanooga, Briggs said, “We should have a pretty good indication of where we stand in
the conference race.”

The women next face ETSU on March 18. Washington, D.C./Baltimore area to play Howard University, St. Bonaventure, and conference-member Johns
Hopkins before returning home to face No. 12 Penn State. The ’Cats lost to the No. 6 Blue Jays, 15-4,
on Hopkins’ turf on Feb. 26. Kiften Stephens ’06, Whitney Diefendorf ’08, Eloise Grose ’06, and Missy Gilbert ’07 all
notched goals for the Wildcats, but their work on the offensive end was not enough to put away Hopkins, as
the Blue Jays out-shot Davidson 36-9 overall. The ’Cats then traveled to Washington, D.C., to face Howard on Wednesday, March
2, after the game was rescheduled from Feb. 28 because of inclement weather, and Davidson cruised to a 12-7 victory
on the George Washington turf field. Eloise Grose ’06 notched four goals for the game, while Lindsay Frank ’05 had
a career-high four assists. Davidson completed the long spring break road trip on March 4, as the Wildcats fell to
St. Bonaventure 17-6. Davidson jumped out to an early 3-1 lead in the contest and appeared to be headed for
another victory, but the ’Cats’ success would be short-lived in the contest. The Bonnies scored seven straight goals to take
an 8-3 lead, and they continued their attacking dominance throughout the remainder of the game. Johnson made her first collegiate
start as goalkeeper, however, and she recorded 10 saves against St. Bonaventure. Finally, Davidson returned to its home turf to
face conference rival Penn State on Monday, March 7. The Nittany Lions, ranked No. 12 in the country, whipped the
Wildcats 20-3. Davidson held onto a close match for the first 15 minutes of the game, but Penn State put
away any doubt by scoring the first four goals of the second half to take an insurmountable 14-2 lead. Davidson
now is 0-2 in the ALC and 2-2 overall. The ’Cats’ next game is Wednesday, March 16 against Iona on
the Belk Turf Field at 5 p.m.

Peyton Gallagher ’05 also had a quality tournament, finishing in 18th place with a 224 total (76-75-73). His final 18
holes featured a barrage of birdies in the middle of the round, including three in a row on holes eight,
nine, and 10, and one more on 12. Rounding out the scoring for Davidson were Alex Knoll ’07 (74-83-74), Joe
Zimmerman ’05 (75-81-76), and Dan Walker ’05 (81-77-78). Senior captain Gallagher said after the round, “We had some solid play
this weekend, and it was definitely nice for the team to see some improvement in the final round. If we
continue to work like we have been, we’ll be ready for the SoCon tournament at our home course in April.”
The team is right back in action this weekend, as it will travel to Eastern Carolina to play in the
Bradford Creek Intercollegiate in Greenville, NC on March 18 and 19.

Last Accelerator
OWEN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
an “internship on steroids.” Pump up your resumé to win the job or internship you want.
Vanderbilt Summer Business Institute
Get into Accelerator—a four-week, business immersion that is like:
* Learn the essentials of business success—Finance, Marketing, Operations, HR
* Develop the critical skills that recruiters value most
* Experience the inner workings of a variety of companies and industries
* Build a portfolio of work to show future employers
* Make valuable connections with recruiters, business leaders & Vanderbilt alumni
May 28 through June 25 • Nashville, TN
Learn more! 615.343.6291 or www.owen.vanderbilt.edu
VANDERBILT
Owen Graduate School of Management
Vanderbilt is an equal opportunity and affirmative action university. © 2005 Owen Graduate School of Management.
