6 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2005

Brian Brooks Moving Company presents ‘Pinata’

By REID WILDMAN
Arts and Living Editor

This past Friday, Davidson was treated to a performance by the Brian Brooks Moving Company. The production, entitled Pinata, was
the second of four Artist Series events during the 2005-2006 academic year. The Brian Brooks Moving Company presents live performances
that bring together contemporary dance, video, animation, visual art, music, and sound design. The group is based in Brooklyn, New
York, arriving on the dance scene in 1996. The group began by performing around Manhattan, moving to a different location
every hour. Some of the sites for these performances included Grand Central Station, the Brooklyn Bridge, the aisles of K-Mart,
and a Seventh Avenue deli. The company continues to perform in unusual public arenas, yet also performs in more traditional
national and international locations. For example, group members have recently returned from a performance run in Seoul, South Korea.

Pinata is the most recent dance developed by Brian Brooks Moving Company. The dance focuses on a kaleidoscopic array of
colors, marking a significant digression from the group’s previous work, which has all focused on only one particular color in
each dance. Pinata begins by focusing on the color white and proceeds into a rich and evocative visual journey through
vibrant color combinations. The dance concludes in opposition to its beginning, featuring only the color black. Creative use of lighting,
costumes, and a great deal of multi-colored confetti contribute to the exploration of color. The performance highlights the idea of
the creative process. The stage is a blank canvas at the start of the production and gradually morphs into something
rich and full by the show’s conclusion. The colored confetti is effectively used by the dancers to illustrate visually the
moods and rhythms of the dancers’ physical movements. It is hard to describe in words the real essence of the
show. Think of times when you may have been moved in some way by reading a poem, looking at a
painting, or listening to music. Similarly, viewing Pinata is the only way to truly appreciate it; it is a true
experience.

The Artist Series is bringing two more performances, Diavolo and The Civilians, to campus in the spring.

‘Miles Apart’ goes against songwriting standards

By PAIGE TAYLOR
Senior Staff Writer

Last Saturday night my roommate and I had five musicians sitting on the Brickhouse porch with us sharing spinach and
artichoke dip. Miles Apart is a band of five musicians: Phil, Jason, Bobby, Rachel, and Luke. Phil and Jason started
the group, which compares itself to Ryan Adams and Alison Krauss, in October of 2003 when Phil moved back to
North Carolina from New York and when Jason was just starting graduate school. The current line-up of the band is
a culmination of old friends and five music-based college educations. Conversation around the table fluctuated from the hilarious to the
serious, and it was easy to forget that I was supposed to be keeping track of the interview.Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Taking notes on the experience, the keyboardist and third singer, Luke, described the spinach appetizer as “an orgy in my
mouth.” Such surprising expressions frequented the table; good-natured quips revealed artists who seemed to be enjoying a mutually fulfilling friendship.
Bobby, “pretty much the best bassist” Jason has ever played with, was celebrating his 22nd birthday by drinking coffee and
receiving a quietly-bequeathed card. ‘Miles Apart’ will return to Davidson on November 12 to play at Summit Coffee. Phil, the
lead singer/songwriter, is a quiet brunette with an endearing smile. He explained different inspirations for his songs, attributing some to
personal vision and others to simplistic situations. Specifically, a song that he wrote with Luke, “The Girl I Used to
Know,” refers to the common mistake of tapping the shoulder of someone on the street that you actually do not
know. Luke then continued the conversation by discussing the rebirth of his single, “Catcher.” The title was dedicated not only
to the classic Salinger novel, but also to the convenience of rhyme scheme. With this honesty and openness about what
they love to do, the bandmates seemed professionals at enduring cold November nights just before playing against the noise of
a full bar and restaurant. Their performance with natural harmony and variance of leadership enlivened an indisposed venue. As my
roommate took pictures with their digital camera for their website, milesapartmusic.com, I sat on the concrete ground recognizing clever lyrics
in an original eclectic style. Rachel, harmony vocals, has a brother who drove from UNC Charlotte with 25 of his
friends to support his big sister. There was undoubtedly a sense of family and unassuming loyalty that triggered comfortable conversation
and probably fed the drive of the artists, who are scattered around the Charlotte region, hence the band name. On
his own website, Phil Hamrick describes how his creative talents were renewed with the realization that “the music of today
is bad” (http://www.philiphamrick.com/about.html). Without adhering to predetermined standards of songwriting, Phil writes what he needs to say, and the band
acts as a supporting mechanism for creating the music. Entertaining the Davidson crowd for three hours this weekend was another
day in being Miles Apart, and they are genuinely eager to play again, in an acoustic show, at Summit on
November 12. What different voices and talents fashion this band, detoxing the whole rock band culture, are apparent especially in
live performance.

Quality repair by people who care! Confused about where to have your vehicle repaired? Lake Norman Auto & Tire Center
is your “One Stop Repair Shop.” We value all our customers and guarantee all work for 14 months or 14,000
miles. Call Lake Norman Auto & Tire for a “free” consultation on any problem you may have with your vehicle.
Lake Norman Auto & Tire offers a 10% Labor Discount to ALL DAVIDSON Students, Faculty, and Staff! Additionally, we will
provide shuttle service back to campus. Give us a call at 704-892-6590 or email at service@lakenormanauto.com for consultation or to
make an appointment! 18705 Statesville Rd Fax 704-892-6596
