Che Davidson @ “THE SOUTH’S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @ First CLASS U.S. POSTAGE PAID PERMIT #1 Davidson, NC | DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2005 VOLUME 96, NUMBER 16

A year later, the last step Trustee vote allows non-Christians Board membership

By DAVID CROW & ZACH KAZIOR Editor-in-Chief Emeritus & Senior Staff Writer

Last Friday, an overwhelming majority of the Board of Trustees approved an amendment to the Trustee Bylaws that will make it possible to elect Trustees who are not active members of a Christian church. The trustees also approved a proposed revision to the Statement of Purpose and a resolution endorsing the establishment of a faculty position in the religion department to be held by a scholar of the Reformed Tradition.

Although the Constitution still requires that 24 of the 45 members be approved by the Presbyteries of NC, anyone, regardless of religious background, will now be eligible for election to the Board. These changes come after an Ad Hoc Committee of the Board of Trustees unanimously recommended to the entire Board changes to both the College’s Statement of Purpose and the Trustee Bylaws last October. Until Friday, the Trustee Bylaws had stated that “all persons elected as Trustees shall be active members of a Christian church.” Under the new changes, the bylaws read, “Historically, persons elected as Trustees have been active members of a Christian church. In openness to and respect for the world’s various religious traditions and the variety of religious preferences among the graduates and friends of Davidson, the Nominating Committee and the Alumni Association may recommend persons for the office of Trustee who are not active members of a Christian church but who meet all other criteria for serving as a Trustee. As part of continuing the historic commitment of Davidson to the Reformed Tradition of the Christian faith, the Nominating Committee

Vail Commons dining hall, which was built in 1981, will have a new look after receiving major renovations this coming summer.

Commons undergoes first-ever renovation

By KATE GILLESPIE Senior Staff Writer

Davidson’s dining facility, Vail Commons, will undergo the first of several phases of renovations this summer. The wall that currently separates the serving area from the dining room will be knocked down in order to allow students more freedom of movement when getting their food. Although Vail Commons has maintained a pizza and salad bar since its original construction in 1981, it has never undergone an actual renovation.

Ten months ago, Director of Dining Services Dee Phillips and Director of Auxiliary Services Richard Terry approached Vice President for Business and Finance Karen Goldstein to propose the changes to Commons. President Bobby Vagt gave his approval to the plan before Christmas. “We have always known that there were aspects of Vail that needed change,” Terry said. “It was built when the fundamental changes in institutional dining were just taking place. If it had been built a few years later, it probably would look different.” The main problem that the first phase of renovations will address is the limited space and flow of the serving area. 

See NEWS, PAGE 5

Guide to SGA elections on Feb. 14

See Commons, page 4"shall ensure that at least 80 percent of all elected Trustees are active members of a Christian church.” The trustees met for two and a half hours last Friday, during which time both supporters and opponents of the decision voiced their views. “Everybody who wanted to speak got a chance to speak. Nobody felt constrained from saying what he or she wanted to say,” said President Bobby Vagt. “The vote was not sliced by gender, age, political view. You could not classify those who voted for and those who voted against.” The last time the Board discussed modifying the Christian requirement was in 1996, when the Board discussed removing the requirement for members of the Trustees elected by the Alumni Association. However, the board

See Board, page 2

Professors question Honor Council
Many have stopped reporting plagiarism cases due to policies
By Blevin Shelnutt
Senior Staff Writer

Since its implementation at Davidson, the Honor Code has provoked tensions between faculty and Honor Council members. Professors representing a range of disciplines continue to feel that the Honor Council does not deal responsibly with plagiarism accusations and many have stopped reporting suspected cases of plagiarism. Some protest that faculty expertise is not valued as sufficient proof for Honor Council juries in plagiarism cases. In the past, even when many professors agreed that a student cheated, Honor Council members hesitated to take action without a copy of the specific plagiarized article.

Former Honor Council Chair Chris Knowles ’05 explained the Council’s policies: “In a non-admitted guilt case, the Council must have ‘clear and convincing’ evidence in order to come up with a guilty verdict. If a professor simply feels that a paper was not a student’s work but cannot find any evidence, and the student denies cheating, how can we say that this student clearly and convincingly plagiarized?”

Psychology Department Chair Ruth Ault has been frustrated with this mistrust of academic and professional expertise in past cases and suggests that the Council should continue to reevaluate what level of evidence constitutes proof. Faculty members question other aspects of the Honor Council trial system, such as the question of student intentionality. The Honor Code states that “Lying is intentional misrepresentation of any form” and goes on to describe cheating as a form of lying and plagiarism as a form of cheating. Knowles acknowledged the

See Code, page 4

Kappa Sig to begin ‘recolonization’
By Leslie Hempson
Senior Staff Writer

Two national representatives of Kappa Sigma Fraternity came to campus Thursday on an “exploratory visit” to determine a timeline for the organization’s return to Davidson. Although Kappa Sigma has not formally announced its return, Patterson Court Adviser Joy Hamm and both national representatives said that they expected the fraternity to start “recolonization” this spring.

See Kappa Sig, page 4

Representatives of Kappa Sigma fraternity dine with Patterson Court Advisor Joy Hamm during their “exploratory visit”.

PERSPECTIVES: The Davidsonian endorses... see PAGE 10
COMMUNITY: Remembering a member of our community see A&L, PAGE 6
The Meno Effect see SPORTS, PAGE 16