16

By MONICA JAMOUNEAU
Staff Writer

An early 18-point lead was almost not enough for Davidson, but the ’Cats pulled out the 62-58 win in a
tough game against Elon last Saturday in Burlington, N.C. With the victory, Davidson moved to 12-5 in Southern Conference play
and clinched a bye in the first round of the conference tournament, which will take place March 2-5 in Chattanooga,
TN.

With 7:37 left in the second half, Jessica Mitchell ’07 hit a jumper that brought the lead to a seemingly
comfortable 18 points. The ’Cats needed every bit of the lead, though, as they relied on that wide margin to
carry them for the rest of the game. Danielle Hemerka ’08 had a solid performance in the game, as she
connected on six of her 10 field-goal attempts and scored 16 points. Katie Hamilton ’07 also poured in 16, giving
the duo more than half of Davidson’s 62 points.

“We really focused on transition against Elon. Every time we ran the ball down the court, we looked to get
the fouls and score lay-ups,” said Mitchell. “All those early points gave us the extra boost that led us to
the win when we needed it.”

Elon used a quick scoring burst to take a 20-19 advantage in the first half, but that proved to be
its only lead in the game. Janell Crayton ’06 capitalized on a fast break to stop Elon’s rhythm and once
again put Davidson on top, and Hemerka’s consecutive three-pointers over the next two minutes helped give the Wildcats a 35-26
lead at the break.

Davidson quickly expanded that lead to 44-28 on a 9-2 run out of the locker room, and the ’Cats maintained
that comfortable margin for most of the second half. Davidson still held a 13-point lead with 4:41 remaining, but it
would not score again until Mitchell hit a lone foul shot to close out the game.

“We were ahead by about 20 for a while, and they mixed it up and started playing zone defense. Then
we got too lax in our defense. Our shots weren’t falling. It wasn’t that they were bad shots, but they
just didn’t fall for us,” said Mitchell.

Elon closed to within three points with just 27 seconds to play, and two consecutive Davidson misses on the front
end of one-and-one opportunities gave the Phoenix the ball down just three. Elon could not convert on a game-tying three-point
try, however, and a Mitchell free-throw sealed the Wildcat win.

“The main focus for Elon was to stay ahead from the get-go, keep the lead ... and never allow them
any confidence,” said coach Annette Watts. “We kept a solid lead for much of the game, but down the stretch,
from the 5:38 mark, we were not stellar in field goals made. I do believe we took good shots, but
they just would not go down.”

Doing the Charleston: Cats win on buzzer-beater

By WILSON McCRORY
Sports Editor

The red and black machine just keeps on rolling, as the Wildcats continued their perfect start in the Southern Conference
with last-second victories against Georgia Southern and at College of Charleston. With the victories, Davidson moved to 14-0 in the
SoCon and 18-7 overall, while the ’Cats notched their 13th consecutive victory and 22nd straight in regular season conference play
dating to last season.

Morton ’06 scooped up a loose ball and beat the buzzer at Charleston.the South division. Davidson jumped out to an
early 5-0 lead, and after the Eagles pulled out to a three-point advantage, their largest of the game, the Wildcats
doubled up on Georgia Southern over the next five minutes to take a 34-25 lead midway through the first half.
The Eagles closed to within three at 37-34 after Davidson failed to score over a four-minute stretch, but the Wildcats
used an 8-0 run to close out the half and take a comfortable 45-34 lead into intermission. Davidson continued to
nurse the comfortable margin in the second half, going up by 17 points with less than nine minutes to play,
but Georgia Southern converted on four straight three-point baskets to close to within eight at 80-72. Davidson jumped back ahead
by 11 with five minutes to play, but a 7-0 Georgia Southern run again put the Eagles in position for
the upset. Clutch free throws, back-to-back offensive rebounds by Logan Kosmalski ’05 and an Eagles turnover ended any hope for
the visitors, though, as Davidson eventually ran out the clock for the win. Ian Johnson ’06 had one of his
best games of the season in the victory, notching 19 points and 10 rebounds for his first double-double since his
freshman year, while Kosmalski went for 19 and eight despite limited time due to foul trouble. Brendan Winters ’06 also
scored 19 for Davidson, while Jason Morton ’06 added 16. “We didn’t play our best,” said Winters, “[but] it was
nice to seal the conference championship at home in Belk ... I would like to say thanks to all the
Davidson students who came and supported us, because without them, Belk wouldn’t be the same.”

The Wildcats did not get treated to such a friendly environment on Monday night when Davidson traveled to Charleston and
John Kresse Arena, notoriously one of the toughest places to play in the Southern Conference, to face the College of
Charleston. The first half was an up-and-down affair, but Davidson stayed in control for most of the period before taking
a 46-41 lead into intermission on two last-second free throws by Kosmalski. The second frame proved to be even closer,
as no team led by more than five points until the 3:32 mark, when a Kenny Grant ’06 three-pointer gave
Davidson a comfortable 71-63 lead. A quick Cougar bucket and two subsequent Wildcat turnovers again brought the game within two
points at 71-69 with 1:40 to play. Charleston missed an opportunity to tie on its next possession, and Grant went
to the free-throw line for a one-and-one opportunity and a chance to essentially ice the game.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
If it’s good enough for SportsCenter

Jason Morton ’06 was a mainstay on the Tuesday morning SportsCenter as the second-best play of the day. After College
of Charleston tied the game at 74-74 with 22 seconds to play, Davidson needed someone to step up to protect
the ‘Cats’ undefeated start to SoCon play. Morton, who was previously scoreless in the game, then picked up a loose
ball in the lane with less than five seconds remaining and threw up a floater over the Cougar defenders. The
ball bounced precariously on the rim before sliding through for the game-winning points as time expired.

Track and Field
Hometown: Meccabim-Reut, Israel
Major: Political Science

Atias brought home Davidson’s best result of the day at the Clemson Tiger Invitational, beating out 43 competitors to win
the mile run. Her time of 5:07.90 was just a second off of the school record and over three seconds
faster than the second-place finisher from Samford.
