THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31, 2005

Lustig teaches religion-science relationship

By TYLER STONE
Staff Writer

Andrew Lustig, a scholar noted for his investigation of the religious issues in bioethics and medical ethics, became Davidson’s first
Holmes Rolston III Professor of Religion and Science this year. Lustig is teaching two courses this semester: Issues in Religion
and Science, which explores differences between religious and scientific perspectives, and Ethics, Medicine, and Religion, a general introduction to the
field of religious bioethics.

Lustig brings with him an expert’s view on and understanding of bioethics and medical ethics. After growing up in a
Catholic household in Bakersfield, California, and attending a Jesuit high school, Lustig majored in English at the University of San
Francisco before moving on to Princeton to study the history of science. He earned his Ph.D. in religious ethics at
the University of Virginia.

Lustig’s ensuing career included learning the art of teaching as a graduate fellow at the University of Virginia, lecturing at
the University of Massachusetts Lowell, and eventually becoming a productive scholar and professor at Baylor College of Medicine, the Institute
of Religion in the Texas Medical Center, and Rice University. Since his days at Princeton, Lustig has been driven by
a passion for religious bioethics.

“Bioethics includes broad-ranging conversation about fundamental moral values and principles and focused discussion of particular issues in medicine, the biosciences,
and public policy,” he said. “I continue to be intrigued by the ways that the field combines scholarly rigor with
immediate relevance in its analysis of important questions.”

It was this passion and concern for ethics that attracted the attention of Davidson College and its religion department, as
they were in the midst of seeking their first Rolston professor. Professor of Religion and religion department chair Karl Plank
said Lustig’s “expertise in religion and science, plus strong concern for ethics generally, especially Catholic social thought” and his “strong
desire to teach serious undergraduates” were some of the primary reasons Lustig was selected for the position.

The new professorship was made possible by Holmes Rolston III, who endowed it with over $1 million he received for
winning the 2003 Templeton Prize for Progress Toward Research or Discoveries About Spiritual Realities. Rolston is a 1953 Davidson graduate
and professor at Colorado State University.

“The Rolston professorship will enable us to initiate new areas of study and dialogue in the realm of religion, science,
and ethics,” said Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty Clark Ross. It is the initiation of such
discussion that drew Lustig to Davidson College during his search for an undergraduate institution that prized intellectual curiosity and energy.
He praises the quality of the students at Davidson, the likelihood of their engagement in discussion, and the fact that
“the Rolston chair allowed me to pursue interdisciplinary studies,” thereby engaging students not yet locked into a certain path of
academics.

Ryan Witcher ’06, a biology major with aspirations towards medical school, is enrolled in one of Lustig’s courses this semester
and has great faith in his class and professor. “I think this class will help me think through a lot
of vital issues about the role of religion in medicine for patients, doctors, researchers,” said Witcher. Lustig, he said, will
be “an excellent resource for pre-meds.”

While at Davidson College, Lustig plans to continue in his role as a “public intellectual,” a scholar very much involved
in the wider world around him. He will remain a columnist for Commonweal, a Catholic journal of opinion, and will
remain committed to religious outreach programs. Lustig also plans to continue speaking at churches and seminaries and writing educational monographs
on a number of religious and ethical topics.

photo courtesy of College
Rolston professor Andrew Lustig

School completes strongest fundraising year to date

By MIKE TELLIS
Staff Writer

Davidson College ended the 2004-2005 fiscal year with a total of $35.5 million in cash gifts, breaking all previous annual
giving records. This year’s final sum was bolstered by two major gifts: one from John Belk ’43 and the other
from the Duke Endowment Fund. Belk made a $1.5 million contribution to the John Montgomery Belk Scholars Program, which provides
comprehensive tuition and fees as well as stipends for summer leadership study. Davidson is currently home to 34 Belk Scholars,
a number that will grow to 40 by 2009 because of the expansion of the program.

The Duke Endowment contributed $4 million for the renovation of Duke Residence Hall and the creation of new offices for
the Dean Rusk International Studies Program in the same building. Additionally, the Duke Endowment provided $300,000 for the President’s Discretionary
Fund.

The overwhelming support of alumni has also enabled the college to garner this unprecedented sum. Alumni participation for the year
stood at 62 percent, making it the third year in a row that involvement has been above the 60 percent
mark. “This institution is very fortunate to have a body of alumni who support it year in and year out,”
said President Bobby Vagt. “The family of

202 South Main St. Davidson, NC. 704-892-0604Davidson comes through, and this year was no exception.” The Annual Fund raised $6.4
million in gifts this year, which exceeded the $6.3 million goal set by the team headed by volunteer chair Ben
Williams '84 of Charlotte. “In general, Davidson College is fortunate to have alumni who are actively engaged and interested in
the life of the college. Thus, when alumni are solicited for gifts, we receive an incredible response,” said Associate Director
of the Annual Fund Maria Tardugno. Tardugno credited attempts to increase alumni participation in college affairs to the alumni’s enthusiasm
in donating. “We make it a priority to keep alumni involved through many ways including the Davidson Journal, chapter events,
athletic events, broadcast e-mails, alumni programs, homecoming, and reunions,” Tardugno said.

This fiscal year also saw the completion of the $250 million “Let Learning Be Cherished” campaign, which was surpassed by
$18 million. The campaign started in 1998 to address scholarship, faculty support, and the development of student life and facilities.
Other projects that will be the recipients of this year’s fundraising efforts include the renovation of Chambers Building and Wilson
Field, as well as the expansion of Richardson Stadium. Money will also go toward professorships; student programs; and need-based, merit,
and athletic scholarships.

The college faced controversy during the 2004-2005 academic year due to a change in Trustee bylaws that allowed for non-Christians
to serve on the Board. Many of the donors for this year had already committed themselves to making contributions prior
to the controversial changes, but the college remains upbeat despite the possibility that the change may negatively impact fundraising for
next year. “If it were going to have an effect, it would have happened this year. I think that most
people had their opinions, but it did not affect their support of the institution,” Vagt said. Tardugno agrees. “We are
hopeful that the record-breaking 2004-2005 Fiscal Year is an indication of successful years to come,” she said.

CoHo opts to drop meal plan for semester
By JILLIAN BARTELS
Staff Writer

In light of recent budget problems and low membership, CoHo, Davidson’s co-ed eating house, has chosen to drop its house
meal plan for at least the first semester of the 2005-2006 school year. The decision changes CoHo from an eating
house to a social house. “We can’t afford [a meal plan] with the number of members we have,” said CoHo
president Aubrey Groves '06. “The point of an eating house meal plan is to be cheaper than Commons, and it
would have been the same price in our case, so we decided, as a house, not to have a meal
plan and focus on building membership.”

With 13 members, CoHo is the smallest eating house on campus. Groves said the low membership is partially due to
the fact that there has not been “an active process” for recruiting members in the past. “Many members joined only
because they already had friends in the house. Our main focus this year is going to be making the house
more visible to the rest of the Davidson campus,” Groves said. “We are just going to try really hard to
put ourselves out there this semester.” Groves added that she hoped the house could add 15 new members this year,
which she believes would enable them to renew their meal plan.

To assist CoHo in recruiting new members, two of its members were sent to a recruitment workshop this summer in
order “to help them develop better recruitment strategies in order to increase their membership,” said Patterson Court Advisor Joy Hamm.
Although the college administration was not directly involved in CoHo’s decision to become a social house, Hamm acted as a
“sounding board” for the house during their decision-making process.

“The heart of CoHo is not its food, but its people, and I’m glad that our focus has come back
to that.” --Tammy Ivins ’07

“The college will continue to support CoHo as long as they feel they are able to function as a viable
organization,” Hamm said. In an attempt to increase the visibility of CoHo on campus, Groves said that the house would
involve itself in a number of campus events this semester, such as collaborating with the Davidson Outdoors Mount Everest climb
to benefit Hinds Feet Farm near Huntersville. She also said that CoHo would try to promote themselves as a “coffeehouse”
type of place where students could go down to hang out in a relaxed atmosphere.

CoHo member Tammy Ivins ’07 feels that the house can, and will, continue to function as an active organization on
campus. Ivins said she was comfortable with CoHo’s decision to go social because “the heart of CoHo is not its
food, but its people, and I’m glad that our focus has come back to that.” Groves reflected the same sentiment
in her comments on the future of the house. “We were sad to lose our meals, because we used them
to socialize,” Groves said. “But we are shifting our focus towards developing other social interactions both within our house and
with the rest of the campus.”
