Che Dabidsonian @ "THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY" @ First Class U.S. POSTAGE PAID PERMIT #1 Davidson, NC

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2005
VOLUME 97, NUMBER 2

College responds to Hurricane Katrina
Campus relief efforts underway
By Kate Gillespie
News Editor

The immense damage caused by Hurricane Katrina has led Davidson to coordinate relief efforts over the past week. The Residence
Life and Community Service Offices are working together to mobilize the campus and send supplies and funds to the Gulf
Coast.

Davidson’s involvement in the relief effort was prompted by a challenge to local colleges made by two DJs from Kiss
95.1, a Charlotte-area radio station, who raised $80,000 and eight full eighteen-wheeler trailers full of supplies in two days. “Together
with Belmont Abbey, Johnson & Wales, and Queens College, we challenge our collegiate community to raise funds and supplies for
the victims of Katrina,” said RLO program coordinator Quinton McKissick.

RLO responded to the challenge by organizing a donation drive for first aid supplies, beverages by the case, baby formula
and diapers, and batteries. The drive began last Friday and will end this Friday. Each hall on campus, as well
as F 204 in Martin Court, has a collecting box in its lounge.

The Community Service Office and the Red Cross Club began collecting monetary donations in the Union yesterday. Students are also
allowed to make contributions using their Cat Cards at the Union Information Desk. Both RLO and the Community Service Office
hope to get a strong response from students.

“My initial thought would be to see 100 percent participation, since we [Davidson College] pride ourselves on stating we have
a large percentage of our student body participating in service,” McKissick said. “We are all blessed by either attending Davidson
or by working at Davidson. Any assistance we can offer these people will go a long way.”

See Relief, page 4

Hurricane Katrina caused immense damage along the Gulf Coast.

College extends admission to students from New Orleans universities
By Ruchi Turakhia
News Editor

As the Davidson community collects supplies and money for victims of Hurricane Katrina, the Office of Admission and Financial Aid
is reaching out to displaced students from Tulane and Loyola University. Lauren Cunningham ’09 is the first of these “refugee
students” to arrive on campus.

Cunningham, who is from Atlanta, had started moving into her Tulane dorm room on the Friday before Hurricane Katrina hit.
Later that afternoon, Tulane’s president announced that Tulane would be closing at 5 p.m. Cunningham, who was initially evacuated to
Jackson State University (JSU) in Mississippi, didn’t realize that Tulane would not have a fall semester until she returned home
a day later.

“My parents and I frantically began calling schools,” Cunningham said. “My high school counselor also called schools for me. She
called Davidson on my behalf, and that’s how I’m here today.”

According to President Bobby Vagt, there are three types of...

See Refuge, page 4

For Gulf natives, impact hits home
By Kate Gillespie
News Editor

Hurricane Katrina has destroyed millions of homes and businesses and caused an estimated 10,000 deaths in New Orleans alone since
hitting the Gulf Coast as a Category 4 storm last Monday. Katrina, one of the most powerful hurricanes to hit
the northern Gulf Coast in half a century, has irreversibly affected the lives of Davidson students from Louisiana, as well
as those who have been haunted...by stories and images of the storm’s devastation. “People are shooting at helicopters; gangs are
rampant in the streets,” said Walker Saik ’06, who is from Louisiana. “I’ve heard stories where people have been robbed
at gunpoint, so even if water didn’t trap people in their homes, the fear of getting raped or murdered has
forced people to hide inside with whatever supplies they have.” Saik’s family members, as well as those of Davidson students
Gretchen Hoffman ’09 and Oscar Hernandez ’06, were among the hundreds of thousands of Louisiana residents who evacuated before the
storm hit. While some residents were able to safely escape, others were trapped in New Orleans and areas in the
direct path of the hurricane. “It takes a full 72 hours to evacuate New Orleans,” said Hoffman, whose family lives
about an hour north of New Orleans. “Once you know it’s coming, it’s too late to get everyone out. That’s
the beginning of the worst-case scenario.” Hoffman’s family left Saturday.

See Students, page 4

photo courtesy of College Comm

The Davidson community gathered for a prayer vigil Friday.

Faculty witness results of tsunami relief efforts

By TYLER STONE

After southern Asia was rocked by the December 2004 tsunami, students and faculty at Davidson began raising funds to send
to the devastated region. Davidson students, who had participated in the 2004 Semester in India program, raised $1,000 by selling
t-shirts, and the faculty donated close to $5,000 into a special relief fund. The combined amounts were sent to Madras
Christian College (MCC), located outside of Chennai in southern India, which bought two fiberglass fishing boats, complete with motors and
fishing nets, for a small coastal village. The village’s old, wooden, creaky, and barely seaworthy boats had been destroyed by
the tsunami.

Davidson faculty and administrators visited the coastal village in India this summer that was devastated by the December 2004 tsunami
and donated the two fishing boats purchased through Davidson’s tsunami relief efforts. Their visit was part of a three-week faculty
development tour, made possible by a long-standing partnership between Davidson and MCC. Ten faculty members and two administrators participated in
the tour from June 3-28. It was the third of its kind in India and the first since 1996. Job
Thomas, director of Davidson’s South Asian Studies department and an alumnus of MCC, led the tour, as he has a
personal connection to the area. “My family’s there,” he said, referring to the city of Chennai, of which Tambaram is
a suburb. His home church is in the city as well.

The faculty and staff in India visited the small village during their trip and took part in an emotional boat
launching ceremony, even riding out into the water on the two bright red boats. The Davidson College logo was emblazoned
on the bow of each boat. For Thomas, the ceremony stood out as one of the most memorable in his
25-year involvement in the program. “I’m not a sentimental person,” Thomas said.

See India, page 2

Children in Chennai play on a boat purchased through Davidson’s tsunami relief efforts.

NEWS: Dean of Admissions Search Update SEE PAGE 2

Eat your heart out, upperclassmen see YOWL, PAGE 8

First Night Down, or First Night Downer? see PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 10
