THE DAVIDSONIAN

Randall McLeod ’08 consults with team members Kate Gillespie ’08 and Summerlee Walter ’08 about their case as Stewart Pierce-Gardner
’08 looks on.

Photo courtesy of Ariel

Mock Trial, continued from page 1

Teams argued over a fictional case in which a hospital releases a mental patient who goes on to assault a
college student. The case surrounds whether the hospital is liable for the damages suffered by the student. Each team featured
a plaintiff and defense that was composed of several lawyers and witnesses. The teams then compete through two rounds that
are scored by a pair of judges each. Davidson was the only team to win every single scoring through both
rounds of the tournament.

“We certainly made mistakes that can be targeted before going to Iowa in April for the National Championship but I
have never seen us look this sharp individually, perform as strongly, or work this well as a team,” said Wood.
The team remains composed as they head into the national tournament. “I have a lot of faith in our team
going into nationals because our witnesses and lawyers have a natural chemistry, and we know how to stay calm and
focused despite the stress of the tournament,” said Kate Gillespie ’08.

The victory represents a landmark for the Davidson Mock Trial Association, which had never before reached the national championship, although
they have competed in other national tournaments. “We've been rightly very proud of our successes in the past,” said George
Guise, the team’s faculty sponsor. “But this year marks the first time we’ve made it to the Big Dance, and
we’re extremely excited.”

“The victory at Furman is a great affirmation of the talent and tremendous effort of our students,” he added. Guise
gives an equal amount of credit to members of the team who did not compete on the advancing team. The
second team competed at the tournament but did not advance to a national tournament. “Though a few rightly deserve mention
for their individual achievement, I think it is important to acknowledge not only those on our winning team, but also
the students on our second team without whom the first would never have achieved so much,” said Guise.

Despite their faculty sponsor, the Davidson Mock Trial Association is a student-run organization. The level of faculty commitment remains far
less than most competitive programs. “Most undergraduate schools that have competitive mock trials programs sponsor the program with dedicated staff
and financial resources,” said Guise. “Also, many schools give course credit for participation in recognition of the incredible amount of
time and effort it demands of students.”

Guise emphasizes how the Davidson Mock Trial Association has excelled as a student-run organization. “I think this is hugely important
and it’s something of which we should all be very proud,” said Guise. The Mock Trial Association looks to continue
its success in the future. The team that won the competition featured one senior, one junior, two sophomores, and four
freshmen. “We have a much younger and more inexperienced team this year than ever before, which bodes well for the
future of mock trial at Davidson,” said Wood.

Admissions, continued from page 1

unable to get visas,” said Tellis. Tellis described his own interview for a visa as relatively uneventful. “She asked me
where I wanted to go to school and I said Davidson,” said Tellis. “Fortunately, she had heard of Davidson and
from there she was much easier onme.” According to Tellis, the financial cost of applying to an international school makes
the difficulty of obtaining an American visa much more discouraging for internationals. “It costs six or seven hundred dollars for
the applications, SATs, and other exams,” said Tellis. “Everything costs a lot of money and even if you do well
on your SATs you may still get rejected.”

Faris Al Mazrui ’07, an international student from the United Arab Emirates, also observed many friends struggle with the visa
application process. When applying for his visa, Mazrui expected the worst. “My mom begged me to apply to the U.K.
in case I didn’t get the visa,” said Mazrui. “She told me some people were denied for no reason at
all.” Though Mazrui got his visa without an interview, several of his friends had trouble. “I have two close friends
in the U.A.E. that waited for a year before getting a temporary visa,” said Mazrui. “The visa basically allowed them
to finish their freshman year and then apply for a new visa.”

One Davidson student was temporarily denied a visa due to having the same name as a known terrorist. “They told
me that there was a terrorist with my name and that they wanted me to get clearance through the State
Department,” said Fethi Mohammed ’06, who waited three months for the visa. “I missed a whole semester because of that,”
said Mohammed. “I was sad.”

With the tightening of U.S. visa grants, more international students are looking elsewhere for international study. “Many, many U.A.E. nationals
are going to Australia instead of the U.S.,” said Mazrui. Australia also offers the advantage of lesser costs. “Australia is
actually becoming a hot favorite for kids in India. It’s cheaper and easier to get into,” said Tellis. “England is
popular, too, but it’s hard to get financial aid so only rich kids go.”

“From what I’ve heard, Australia’s education isn’t that great compared with American schools,” said Tellis. Foreign competition has contributed to
a decline in international applications to American schools. “Another factor is much more aggressive recruiting from Canada, Australia, and the
U.K. and the relative costs of those institutions in comparison with U.S. schools,” said Payne.

Mazrui said that the loss of international students represents a loss in human capital to the United States. “I have
no doubt that the U.S. is paying for its new visa rules because they’re making it hard for the clever
people outside to come over here,” said Mazrui. Mazrui, however, remains sympathetic to U.S. security concerns. “I can’t blame the
government for doing this, making it more difficult. They are sending a message that terrorism is not acceptable,” said Mazrui.
“I cannot complain when I am at immigration when they ask for my name and fingerprints. They treat me very
respectfully.”

In a move that might help mitigate the declining applications from foreign nationals, Davidson made its first recruiting trip to
Africa this past year.

“This is the first time we've made a significant [recruitment] effort in Africa. We are seeing good applications come in
from places we haven't seen them from before.” --Wookie Payne, Director of Multicultural Recruitment

“We've recruited from other regions of the world, but this is the first time we’ve made a significant effort in
Africa,” said Payne, who has already seen a response. “We are seeing good applications come in from places we haven’t
seen them from before.” The number of foreign applications for the next term remains indeterminable at this point.

Sushi @ The Lake
(704) 987-8080
www.sushiatthelake.com
10% Off with School ID
Monday-Friday 2pm-6pm
Saturday 11:30am-5pm
