2. THE DAVIDSONIAN

Summer, continued from page 1

dine on campus. Improvements to Vail Commons include changes to the interior architecture and dining layout, new lighting that accents
the food displays, the addition of new waffle irons upon student request, and freshly brewed iced tea. New food stations
have been added, and the dining staff uniforms have been changed from red polo shirts to chef coats, giving Commons
a more professional feel.

“The sophisticated architecture and spacious ambience [of Commons] is quite breathtaking.” --Kenny Grant ‘06. “You can even take a girl
out to Commons nowadays,” said Brandon Baila ’07.

Some upperclassmen have complained about having to adjust to a new dining format; however, Phillips is confident the shock factor
will wear off in upcoming weeks. Phillips said students are already becoming less inclined to line up in the Express
Line, which they had been doing out of habit. Other students are thrilled with the recent renovations.

“The sophisticated architecture and spacious ambience is quite breathtaking,” said Kenny Grant ’06. This is good news to those who
have worked on creating the new Vail Commons, as one of the college’s goals for the renovations was to draw
students out of their dorms and into a more social environment.

RLO and the Physical Plant also made some changes to the three sophomore apartments, Knox, Irwin, and Akers, as well
as Martin Court F. Associate Dean of Students and Director of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano said that RLO reworked the
heating and air conditioning systems in Knox, Irwin, and Akers, noting that “now students will be warm in the winter
and cool in the summer—not vice versa.” Lighting inside the apartments was replaced, and apartment lounges were refurbished, although the
new furniture will not arrive until September.

They also re-landscaped the area surrounding the sophomore apartments, improving both the aesthetics and the drainage that had damaged the
insides and outsides of the apartment complexes. Despite complaints surrounding the removal of several trees and parking spaces, the renovations
were necessary to address the mold, mildew, and cockroach problems that had previously been associated with the apartments.

Many sophomores were unaware that any renovations had taken place to their apartments. Other students, however, did notice, and were
grateful for the improvements to their air conditioning systems. Improvements made to Martin Court F included new hot water heaters,
refrigerators, and dishwashers; F is now the only building in Martin Court that has dishwashers. The apartments were also given
new paint jobs, new carpeting, and newly tiled lounge areas. New kitchen tables, chairs, and desk chairs will arrive in
September with the furniture for the sophomore apartments. The building’s landscaping was improved, and its exterior was repainted, repaired, and
re-lit. In addition, two barrier-free, handicap-accessible studio apartments were built, which, along with necessary

Food Drive
The Kappa Sigma Food Drive will be held from today until September 8. Donations may be dropped off at the
food drive table on the third floor of the Union. Prizes will be awarded to the hall, Patterson Court house,
and faculty department that can raise the most cans. The food drive will benefit the Second Harvest Food Bank.

European Union Talk
Professors Scott Denham, Earl Edmondson, Lou Ortmayer, and Alan Singerman will discuss “What's Next for the European Union?” on September
1 at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Chemistry Colloquium
Professor Katherine J. Franz of Duke University will speak on “Copper Binding

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31, 2005

The newly renovated Vail Commons features a more open food service system and improved lighting that accents the food displays,
as well as more options.Sidewalk repairs enable all students to take part in the Martin Court experience. The third major
renovation that took place over the summer was the addition of more football stands and the creation of a brand
new weight room facility designed primarily for varsity athletes, but available for use by all students. Planning for this project
began in November 2003, and construction started following the end of last fall’s football season. Director of Facilities and Engineering
David Holthouser said that there has been a need for a new weight facility ever since the loss of the
Johnston Gym, which coincided with the construction of the new Student Union a few years ago. Holthouser explained that Davidson
was also lacking a visitors’ locker room as well as a storage place for free weights and track equipment. The
new stands accommodate all of these needs and provide better seating for the football games, as the stands are now
aligned with the 50-yard line. The 5,000 square foot weight room designed specifically for the strength training of Davidson’s varsity
athletes is located directly below the stands. The physical plant also re-landscaped the areas surrounding the new stands and built
new sidewalks that linked to the Student Union and Chambers.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

8/22 Irwin Dormitory Noise Complaint
Officer received a noise complaint from Irwin Dormitory. Officer knocked on the door, and after several minutes, the door was
opened and a sheet of plywood was leaning against the wall. Five students said they had been playing drinking games
and that they were underage. One quart of Miller Beer and a fifth of Vodka were found and disposed of.

8/22 Martin Court Noise Complaint
Reporting officer received a call from dispatch regarding noise complaints from Martin Court F. On arrival, officer had students from
the first and third floors pick up trash from the lawn, and all other students were asked to disperse.

8/26 Patterson Court Fire Alarm
Officer and Davidson Fire Department were dispatched to Patterson Court #3 in response to a fire alarm. Upon entry, they
found the alarm had been activated by steam when the dishwasher was opened.

8/26 Tomlinson Dormitory Large Gathering
Officer received a complaint about a large group of people gathered outside a room in Tomlinson. The door opened to
let the students in, and the officer caught a glimpse of beer cans and other alcohol containers. The officer gathered
all the people into one of the two adjoining rooms. The officer saw that the room contained numerous cans of
beer, cups, a vodka bottle, a wine bottle, gin and rum bottles, and eight unopened cans of beer in the
fridge. All the students were cooperative and the alcohol in the rooms was poured down the bathroom sink.

8/27 Belk Dormitory Self-Inflicted Injury
A student reported that he had gotten angry during an argument with his girlfriend and punched his closet door, putting
a hole through it. The student had cut the knuckle area of his right hand and was provided with a
bag of ice.

Properties of Mets Motifs Found in Copper Transport
On September 2 at 2:30 p.m. in Martin G-10.

Family Vaudeville Extravaganza
Local variety artist The Great Fettucini will provide a family-friendly lineup of physical comedians, magicians, object manipulators, and acrobats on
September 3 at 7:30 p.m. in the Duke Family Performance Hall. Tickets are $5 for adults and $3 for children
under 12 and can be purchased at the Union Ticket Office.

Bernard Mathematics Lecture
Renowned mathematician Ronald L. Graham will deliver Davidson’s annual Bernard Mathematics Society Lecture on “Searching for the Network” on September
7 at 8 p.m. in the 900 Room.
