THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Teleconference provides view of situation in Iraq

Just Peace sponsors events to commemorate anniversary of Iraq War

By BEN WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

To commemorate the second anniversary of the Iraq War, Just Peace, an organization of students, faculty, and staff that meets weekly to discuss international issues and violence, launched a week-long educational program aimed at informing about matters relating to Iraq and Islam. The group sponsored “Islam 101” at the end of March. A panel consisting of Muslim students, an Arabic instructor, and a professor of History answered questions relating to the Islamic faith. They also sponsored an hour-long teleconference with Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter Anthony Shadid of the Washington Post, who has been in Baghdad since 2004. Both events allowed audience members to directly question the featured experts.

Nate Shestak ‘07 found the two events to be “informative and well-run.” “I enjoyed asking my own questions and then getting direct answers from a journalist living in Baghdad,” Shestak said.

“I don’t think the Iraqis could tell you whether [the war] was successful or not. Nobody in Iraq asks ‘was the war worth it?’”
—Anthony Shadid, Pulitzer Prize Winner and Washington Post reporter

Arabic instructor Bassam Halaweh was featured on the “Islam 101” panel. He described the program’s goal as providing an accurate portrayal of the Islamic faith, which is often misunderstood in the United States. “The purpose of the whole thing is to educate,” Halaweh said. “My goal is to show that Islam does not profess aggression.” Halaweh addressed controversial issues surrounding Islam. “Osama Bin Laden violated Islamic law by attacking innocent people,” he said.

Discussion during “Islam 101” ranged from questions about Islamic culture to the religion’s relationship with Christianity. Questions about female equality in the Islamic faith produced some of the most involved discussion. “Women are respected in Islam and we don’t want them degraded in any way,” panel member Faris Al Mazrui ’07 said.

The teleconference with Shadid provided a direct source of information on life in Baghdad. Shadid answered questions and talked mostly about present conditions and attitudes in Baghdad. “You do hear them say they’re happy Saddam Hussein is gone, and you do hear hope for the future,” Shadid said. “People will talk more about Iraq politics rather than U.S. officials, and that is a big change.”

Shadid described a growing frustration with the insurgency among Baghdad citizens. “You hear certain disgust for bombings,” Shadid said. “In 2004, you didn’t hear that. There was a sense of justification. But now they see that it’s not helping.” Shadid also recounted a number of challenges facing Iraq. He described the targeted assassination of Iraqis, including faculty members at the University of Baghdad. “The campaign of assassinations is a major facet of the insurgency that’s been hard to get a handle on,” Shadid said. Shadid mentioned that the Iraqis suffered shortages of gasoline and often go without electricity. He described Islam as having the upper hand in politics.

In response to a question asking what the largest American misconception about Iraq is, Shadid described how the war cannot be judged as a success or a failure. “I don’t think the Iraqis could tell you whether it was successful or not,” said Shadid. “Nobody in Iraq asks ‘was the war worth it?’” “I think it was both right and wrong at the same time,” he added.

Associate Professor of Biology Malcolm Campbell, the co-founder of Just Peace, felt the Shadid teleconference revealed what needs to be accomplished in Iraq. “It’s not about the war,” Campbell said. “The real question is how you stop the violence. There’s a difference of opinion but hopefully they can discuss peaceful options.”

Although Just Peace has been painted as a partisan group in the past, both events allowed audience members to ask questions and guide the discussions. “Peace is not about Republicans and Democrats,” Campbell said. “We welcome different political opinions as long as they support peace.” “We want to let people see both sides of the issue and let them decide,” he said. “Just Peace tries to encourage dialogue.”

Halaweh, an active Muslim, felt that the “Islam 101” session helped to pursue that goal. “I think as an appetizer it was a very good session and I look forward to more dialogue,” Halaweh said. “These dialogues are very important for an education.”

Sami Jarrah ’07 moderates the conference call with Pulitzer-winning reporter Shadid.The pope from that of a cleric ensconced in Rome making authoritative pronouncements about dusty doctrines, to that of a media-savvy world pilgrim, and a vibrant commentator on politics, culture, and ‘all that it means to be human.’ Throughout his pontificate, John Paul II was known as an advocate for human rights, but his conservatism alienated the more liberal members of the Catholic Church. According to Soos, John Paul II preached against a “culture of death” in the form of abortion, euthanasia, capital punishment, and the Gulf War and the war in Iraq. He was concerned with the elimination of communism but was also critical of the materialism and consumerism of capitalistic countries such as the United States.

“I think that Pope John Paul II was a man of deep faith and principle who lived by his convictions and provided strong leadership to the Catholic Church and to the wider human community,” said College Chaplain Rob Spach. “Although people of sincere Christian faith at times disagreed with his views, he nevertheless commanded respect and was a good example of how to live life with integrity and passion. Christians of all denominations can give thanks to God for his honorable and faithful life.”

John Paul II will be buried Friday in the grotto beneath St. Peter’s Basilica, where Pope John XXIII lay until 2001. Fifteen to 20 days after his burial, 117 voting cardinals from all over the world will meet in the Sistine Chapel to elect the new pope in a traditional process known as the conclave. Catholics are anxious to see who the cardinals will choose to succeed John Paul II. “It will probably be someone older, who will serve as a kind of transitional pope,” Soos said. “For sure, it will have to be someone who is comfortable with the public and global role of the papacy that John Paul II developed during his tenure. In any case, whoever is elected will have some serious issues to deal with within the Church, and will have some very big shoes to fill.”

The pope’s death has led to emotional reactions from Catholic and non-Catholic students on campus. According to Soos, some students have expressed relief at the end of the Pope’s suffering. “Also, John Paul II was pope during the entire lifetime of the students, so I think for all intents he is the papacy in many people’s eyes,” Soos said. “He had a particular fondness for youth and young adults, and I think young adults have had a strong affection for him.”

Jean-Marie Bibb ’08 has seen another effect of the pope’s death on campus: a renewed interest in Catholicism among her non-Catholic friends. “I’ve had so many friends come up to me and ask questions about the Catholic faith, and this has given me a chance to dispel many myths about the Catholic faith,” Bibb said. “I am looking forward to the election of the new pope, as this will be my first time to witness the process.”

Meghan Refinski ’06, a leader of the CCM, expressed a general student view of sadness mixed with appreciation for the pope’s accomplishments. “He was a great man who made a lasting impact not only on the Catholic Church, but also on the world scene,” Refinski said. “What makes our situation so different from those of our parents, faculty, and staff, is that our generation has only known one pope, a pope that despite his conservative beliefs touched the lives of so many young people. As a Catholic, I am eager to watch the events of the following weeks unfold and see what the future holds for the Catholic Church.”

WE'RE LOOKING FOR ARTISANS TO PERFORM AND DISPLAY THEIR WORK AT OUR NEW CORNELIUS LOCATION.

MUSICIANS and POETS: bring by a demo or examples of your work.

ARTISTS: Pick up a display application to have your work displayed on a rotating basis.

POETS AND ARTISTS!

19930 WEST CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS NEAR McALISTER’s Deli - Exit 28, off I-77 704-896-1900 WWW.BENJERRY.COM/LAKENORMAN AND WWW.PORTCITYJAVA.COM

WE OPEN: MON-FRI 6AM, WEEKENDS 7AM