12 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 2005

TRUMBO’S PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat Game of the Week
SoCon Championship Semi-finals
Saturday 11/11 at 4:30 p.m. in Charleston, S.C.
Men’s Soccer vs. Furman

Although it will be impossible for most to attend the game because it will take place in Charleston, the men’s soccer semi-final match still looms large in the ’Cats attempt to win the SoCon. Furman, the No. 4 seed, played No. 1 seed Davidson close this season, losing 1-0. It should be a good one.

Outside the Den
College Football
#5 Alabama at #4 LSU
11/11 3:30 p.m. on CBS

College football enters its last few weeks before conference championships. In the SEC, Alabama (9-0) goes into LSU (7-1) as one of the few unbeaten teams. I would like to take Alabama, but LSU as everyone knows is hard to beat at home.

Overrated:

When people talk about sports and the media, usually a couple of obvious examples come to mind: ESPN, Sports Illustrated, and the sports sections of whatever newspaper happens to be around. That’s how we keep up to date and know what has happened when, God forbid, we miss a game or we need to settle a bet. If you’re a sports fan, there’s nothing more compelling than watching SportsCenter, nothing that wastes time like listening to Cornheiser and Wilbon argue for 30 seconds each about 20 different subjects, nothing more fascinating than watching million-dollar athletes prove that they should stick to their day jobs rather than give interviews for a living.

I love watching ESPN, and I absolutely love being able to switch to ESPN2, ESPNEWS, or ESPN Classic during commercials or professional basketball highlights. But that’s a personal thing. What happens, though, when sensationalism takes over good sports? Can it possibly be an advantage for athletes to have their images tossed all over a TV screen 24 hours a day? So much of the problem with sports today comes from a player earning too much cash, teammate disputes, celebrations after plays, and sexual scandals. The common denominator in these cases is usually celebrity and fame. We see the bling. We know where these famous athletes were born, where they live now, and we often know exactly who is dating whom in the sports world. It stands to reason that the more scandal associated with a star’s name, the more popular he or she is in the media. This popularity does not, however, have anything at all to do with talent. But the athletes know that we’re watching them closely—that they’re watching each other—and with that in mind, the power hitters are trying (and often not succeeding) to hit over 60 home runs a season, rather than make what could be a game-winning, selfless single. Professional basketball stars dribble down the court, sink the three, and with a fist pump, they scramble to play defense so that the opposing team can try for the backwards-twisting dunk without making a single pass. And instead of setting up for the extra point, receivers celebrate a touchdown with choreographed dances in the endzone.

It’s amusing, but its source is all too obvious and all too self-serving. Commercialization is the name of the game, even in college sports. How many football programs get Bowl games because they have a big name and will draw bigger crowds so that on TV—on ESPN—the ratings will be bigger and better than ever? I was watching a commercial for the NBA on ESPN the other day, in which about 20 famous players’ faces flashed as they threw intimidating glares at the camera. At the end, Shaquille O’Neal says, “I am the game,” or something equally individualistic and annoying. It reminds me of when Happy Gilmore starts selling Subway sandwiches in order to save his grandmother from the clutches of the evil assisted-living nurse, played by Ben Stiller. Even if Happy had been horrible at the sport of golf, his antics on and off the green would get him as much media attention as he wanted. While this truth was advantageous for both Happy and his grandma, it doesn’t preserve the integrity of the sport or the professionalism of its players.

A fantastic college football or basketball player gets his picture on ESPNEWS. A valedictorian doesn’t, not even on the 10 o’clock news, where I guess it would be more appropriate. This is why the National Spelling Bee can be found on ESPN-Ocho, and the Notre Dame-Purdue game is on ESPN. A college athlete’s self-image will be so inflated that when he doesn’t get drafted by the NFL or the NBA like he thought he would, or when he finally realizes he’s just not that good, he’s left with nothing. Not all schools have the same academic requirements as Davidson, where you actually have toHold a legitimate GPA and take legitimate classes; students at big state schools have the advantage (and the greater disadvantage) of spending every waking moment perfecting their game, rather than their grades. I think this is unfortunate, and while it’s not necessarily ESPN and other media’s fault, they perpetuate it to such an extent that I have to wonder where the drama ends and playing a sport begins. The drawbacks to an all-sports-all-the-time channel are obvious, especially when the more popular sports are beaten into the dust by 50 different commentators. I’ll admit, however, that hearing about the two Carolina Panthers’ cheerleaders—both female, of course—found in a compromising situation in a Tampa bar, and the ensuing fight, will never get old for me.

### New lights may solve field space problem
By Suzzie Eckl, Staff Writer

Over the past few years, the four fields originally set aside for intramural and club sports teams have been reduced to only one field, and this has created numerous problems for the teams involved. The current field situation “leaves a lot of things wanting,” said Becky Nolin ’06, student president of both club sports at Davidson and DUFF. With clubs such as men’s and women’s soccer, rugby, and DUFF needing space to play multiple times a week, one field just doesn’t cut it.

Davidson has 19 different club sports—a large number considering the college’s size—and many of these teams have to vie for field space to get in their weekly practice time. Each semester, the club sports presidents meet in order to figure out what team practices at what time. According to Lee Jones, Director of Intramurals, Club Sports and Aquatics, the process is a “work-with-you kind of thing” with each team willing to barter for times and make compromises. Despite the good relations between teams, there is still frustration.

DUFF has over 60 active members, and because field availability is limited, the team does not get the practice time it desires each week and also has difficulty fitting everyone onto the field. DUFF member Chris Catanese ’08 said, “The only limiting factor in our continued growth and improvement is field space.” Women’s club soccer experiences similar problems. “We sometimes share the field with the guys,” the club’s president Audrey Cundari ’08 said. In order to fit both teams on the IMAC field, which is located behind the sophomore apartments, the teams split it down the middle. Consequently, the reduced size renders some practice drills impossible. “For example, we don’t have shooting drills on Tuesday because we don’t have the big goals,” said Cundari.

Varsity teams rightly have first dibs on practice space, but they are generous with what they have. The soccer team occasionally has practice on the turf field and DUFF practices on the football practice field about once a week. According to Nolin, many of the problems could be solved with lights. Because the IMAC field is currently lit on only one side, teams have difficulty practicing at night. With classes in session well into the afternoon, teams have only a narrow window in which to practice. By adding lights to the far end of the field, practice time would be lengthened. “It’s an easy fix,” said Jones. “It gives you more possibilities.” However, General Electric has told those involved that the expense of adding lights to the field sits at $53,963.

Another suggestion from some involved is to make more use of Davidson’s lake campus, which has a large field area near the parking lot. Many, however, consider this solution a bit of a stretch. By using facilities at the lake campus, the students would have to own cars to shuttle teammates back and forth. This inconvenience would not only increase practice time, but it would also create a logistical nightmare for large teams such as DUFF and rugby.

Yet Jones believes there is less of a crunch for field space than ever, since this year the physical plant has improved the IMAC field. IMAC now drains much more quickly and has a split rail fence around it to keep in stray balls. “A lot of the problems are about to be addressed, but the future is looking a little brighter,” Jones states. Others share Jones’ glass-half-full attitude. Catanese said, “We have the manpower to run some kind of activity every day of the week. I think it’s possible, and I would love to see it.” Also, most do not grudge the field space problem since the college has eaten up the fields in order to build senior apartments, the turf field, and even the new soccer stadium to improve campus as a whole.

As it stands now, intramurals and club teams are pushing hard for new lights hoping that it will solve the problem, but questions remain. Can Davidson afford it? When might it happen? And, most importantly, will it be enough?