THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cats lose to ACC foes Duke, UNC

By WILL BRYAN
Staff Writer

The strong schedule of the women’s soccer team has them facing top-ranked competition before beginning SoCon play.

Unfortunately, Davidson faced three of those teams within a week-and-a-half.

Despite some solid defensive performances against ACC powerhouses No. 21 Wake Forest, No. 2 UNC, and No. 12 Duke, the Wildcats were unable to pull out a victory.

While last week’s Wake Forest game was played at Alumni Stadium, the other two games were part of the Carolina Nike Classic held in Chapel Hill, NC.

Last Friday’s game against No. 2 UNC started off well for the Cats as they held the Tar Heels scoreless for the first 33 minutes and took only a 1-0 deficit into the locker room at halftime.

In the second half, however, the UNC attack did not let up as they piled up five more goals on 30 total shots on goal.

The Davidson offense did not seem to be able to relieve the pressure as they could not keep the ball in Tar Heel territory for extended periods of time.

As a result, they had limited scoring opportunities and no goals.

The highlight of the game for the ’Cats was the strong effort by goalkeeper Bevin English ’08, who racked up a career-high seven saves.

Sunday’s game had the Wildcats facing off against another ACC foe in No. 12 Duke. Although, once again, the offensive attack was not able to get anything going, this time the Wildcat defense toughened up in the second half allowing only two goals in the entire contest.

The Blue Devils were constantly knocking at the door as they recorded 17 shots on goal over the course of the game, but English once again played strong as she recorded five saves.

In the losses, the Wildcats gained valuable experience in playing against some of the top teams in the country.

“The girls put in a lot of effort,” said head coach Greg Ashton. “I’m very proud of the way the team played and competed against a nationally-ranked program [in Duke].”

Tournament honors went to Nancy Haskell ’08, who was recognized as the ’Cats’ most valuable defensive player, and Kara Koehrn ’06, who was named the offensive MVP.

“Everyone on the team played and defended really hard all weekend,” said Haskell. “Competing against those teams boosted our confidence, but now it’s a matter of not just talking about it, but actually taking that mentality into our games the rest of the season and getting results.”

One of the biggest differences between Davidson and the top-ranked Tar Heels and Blue Devils was the speed of play.

Opposing offenses were able to attack and defend at such a high energy level that the ’Cats were taken off guard.

“Both UNC and Duke really exploited some of our weaknesses on both sides of the ball and hopefully we can identify and work on those weaknesses in practice as preparation for our conference schedule,” said Haskell.

A strength of this Wildcat squad is the diversity of experience, as many seasoned veterans are playing alongside underclassmen. The ’Cats hope the learning process engendered by that type of situation will translate into further success as the season progresses.

The Wildcats head up to Evanston, IL, this weekend to compete in the Northwestern University tournament against Kent State and Northwestern.

They will finally return home to Alumni Stadium on Sept. 16 when they take on UNC-Wilmington.

WRITE FOR SPORTS
EMAIL MOJAMOUNEAU OR PITRUMBO

THE
LAW FIRM
We Are Proud To Be Your Neighborhood Law Firm

Concentrating in Personal Injury

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. University of Richmond

Commissioner for the Town of Davidson
‘83-85; ‘88-’97

Best Lawyers in America ‘84-’05
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president

Former Judge NC Court of Appeals
Adjunct professor of trial advocacy
Duke Law School Executive Council ‘03 to present.
UNC Law School

Other Areas of Practice
Appeals, Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning,
Family Law, Litigation, Real Estate, Wills & Trusts

In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)