THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 2005 = 11

Congressmen strike out on DC Baseball

New energy crisis?

By JC Boyle
Staff Columnist

It’s rare to find Republicans against the prospect of a wealthy businessman buying something, but apparently since they dominate the
media and control all three branches of government, it’s now time to regulate Major League Baseball. Already in the habit
of needlessly interfering with the internal workings of the sport from this spring’s steroid hearings, congressmen like Tom Davis of
Virginia and John Sweeney of New York have decided to bully the sport into picking only owners they approve of.
By threatening to revoke baseball’s antitrust exemption if they don’t approve of a sale, these so-called fans are trying to
give government veto power over a sport’s internal decisions.

The problem, as they see it, is George Soros’s bid to purchase the Washington Nationals. “It’s not necessarily smart business
sense to have anybody who is so polarizing in the political world,” Sweeney said in June, according to the Washington
Post. “That goes for anybody, but especially as it relates to Major League Baseball because it’s one of the few
businesses that get incredibly special treatment from Congress and the federal government.”

These so-called fans are trying to give government veto power over a sport's internal decisions.

Political polarization has never been a problem with baseball before, which has had more than its share of colorful owners.
Take Marge Schott, who owned the Cincinnati Reds for nearly two decades, in between her frequent suspensions for racism, Nazism,
and homophobia. Then there’s George Steinbrenner, who pled guilty to obstruction of justice and making illegal campaign contributions to Richard
Nixon in the year the Watergate scandal began. And who can forget both Ted Turner and Rupert Murdoch, equally insane
media moguls from opposite sides of the political spectrum, both of whom owned baseball teams either personally or through their
companies?

The only things a polarizing owner should have to deal with are fans and players, but, unfortunately for the rest
of Washington, Congress happens to have its share of baseball fans, and their idea of fandom is to make baseball
into as much of a mess as the country is in. (Not that Bud Selig needs any help.) “Major League
Baseball understands the stakes,” is the threat Davis has given regarding Soros’s attempt to purchase the Nationals. “I just don’t
think we need or want that in the nation’s capital,” he said of Soros’s politics, adding, “I don’t think I’ll
be getting season tickets if he gets the team.”

Their idea of fandom is to make baseball into as much of a mess as the country is in.

What are Soros’s politics? As a teenager, he fled Communist Hungary for the London School of Economics. After making his
millions, he started a philanthropic effort aiding black students in apartheid South Africa. Two years ago, he helped finance the
democratic revolution in Georgia. None of this, of course, is at all relevant to his status as a minority shareholder
in a group aiming to purchase a baseball team. All that really matters is his money, and he certainly has
that. Also irrelevant is the $23 million he spent last year trying to defeat President Bush, former owner of the
Texas Rangers. It’s especially meaningless because, unlike Steinbrenner, his campaign contributions were all legal.

Major League Baseball will decide after the season which group gets to buy the Nationals, and they should be able
to make that decision without the interference of the federal government, which surely has better things to worry about. It’s
not clear who’s a frontrunner at this point, but Soros does have one thing going for him: if he buys
the team, no one will have to sit next to Tom Davis.

JC Boyle is a sophomore classics major from Atlanta.Ga. Contact him at jcboyle@davidson.edu.

Venezuela’s Hugo Chavez: a threat?

Due to the large volume of oil traded and skyrocketing prices, Venezuela has amassed large revenues. Rather than using that
money to rescue his citizens from the throes of indigence, however, Chavez has made several military “investments.” He has been
accused of supporting narco-terrorist rebels in Colombia, in opposition to the US government’s backing of the current democratic regime of
that nation. According to the Weekly Standard, he also ordered 20 MiG fighter jets and 100,000 AK-47 rifles from the
Russian government, a surprisingly large quantity of arms for a nation without any international military commitments. Besides publicly aligning himself
with countries like Libya, Syria, and Iran, Chavez is an avowed enemy of President Bush. This is a result of
both political differences and the US-orchestrated attempted coup in 2002. Chavez has in turn become paranoid about being assassinated and
made several threatening remarks toward Bush. The frightening proposition of him ordering an attack on one of our allies in
Latin America does not seem far-fetched.

Despite threats to cut off Venezuelan oil to the US, Chavez has yet to even approach that point. This is
because, according to the Inter Press Service, the US constitutes 60 percent of Venezuela’s oil exports. It seems illogical to
keep funneling cash into the accounts of foreign dictators who hate America. But that is the nature of our current
energy needs, which rely heavily on oil controlled by our biggest enemies in the war on terror. If we can
move toward a more self-reliant energy program, we will no longer abet efforts in these nations that run contrary to
our own interests. Even though Robertson’s remarks were rash and poorly thought out, they managed to bring attention to one
of the developing threats in the world.

Scott Saldana is a freshman from Dallas, Tx. Contact him at scsaldana@davidson.edu.

In light of the recent hurricane in New Orleans, three facts of American life have become painfully obvious. First, we
as a people are dangerously reliant on oil. Second, something needs to be done in order to check rising domestic
gasoline consumption. And third, the current administration and Congress are not determined to take action to resolve this national crisis.

Before last week’s hurricane, gasoline prices had been steadily rising throughout the summer. The storm’s destruction of America’s largest energy
hub has served simply to accelerate a situation that was bound to unfold at some point. With a reduction in
the supply of gasoline, prices have skyrocketed to almost $4 a gallon in some areas of the country. The reasonable
response would be to reduce consumption as during the energy crisis of the 1970s. But the Bush administration, in its
unflagging support of big business, has flooded the market with supplies from the nation’s stash of crude oil and lowered
environmental standards for gasoline refineries. The president has thus forgone an opportunity to improve both his domestic and international standing
by refusing to responsibly confront America’s dependence on oil.

The lack of any feasible energy program from the Bush administration demonstrates an unsettling lack of effort in the White
House and a lack of concern among the American public. America’s security and foreign and domestic policy are compromised by
a reliance on petroleum that strains the economy, squanders taxpayers’ money, and places American stability at the whim of other
nations. Moreover, the air pollution generated by combustion puts humans and the rest of the environment in considerable danger. Energy
consumption and harmful emissions have increased dramatically in recent years as people have begun to drive less efficient automobiles, requiring
greater government spending to repair damage done to the environment.

The time has surely come to recognize our nation’s vulnerability and demand a change. As the leaders of our nation,
President Bush and members of Congress ought to muster the political courage to impose emission limitations on automobile makers and
offer incentives for the implementation of fuel-efficient technology. Higher taxes on gasoline would also encourage individuals to limit their consumption.
Furthermore, the President should call on America’s youth to explore the field of science in hopes of finding a renewable
energy source. Effective change cannot come exclusively from the top: Americans have a civic duty to be aware of their
personal gasoline consumption and reduce it through the use of public transportation, carpools, bicycles, and other environmentally-friendly means.

Oversized vehicles in particular drain the country’s resources and pollute the air that we all breathe. The American culture of
excess, exemplified by the abundance of McMansions and SUVs, has encouraged many people in recent years to disregard the effects
of their actions on others. The notions of sacrifice and caution that sustained the nation through the Great Depression and
the energy crisis of the 1970s seem to have disappeared.

Finally, as Davidson students, we are in a unique position to improve our country’s condition. In addition to reducing our
own gasoline consumption, we must encourage others to do the same and demand that our government follow suit. America’s youth
has the intellectual capacity and political influence to alter the current course of the nation through awareness campaigns, activism, and
perhaps most effectively at the polls. We must use this power wisely.

Stephen Kalin is a freshman from Tappan, N.Y. Contact him at stkalin@davidson.edu.
