16 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2005

By MONICA JAMOUNEAU
Staff Writer

Women’s tennis remained undefeated at 4-0 in the Southern Conference and moved to 12-3 overall after beating East Tennessee State and No. 45 Western Michigan over the weekend. Because of their impressive play to start the season, including a 6-1 victory over Western, the Wildcats were also recently ranked No. 53 in Division I, the team’s highest ranking in school history.

On Friday against former SoCon undefeated ETSU, Davidson fell into an early hole after losing both the first and third doubles spots. Meggie Patterson ’05 and Kelsey Linville ’08 triumphed 8-5 at the second spot, extending their doubles winning streak to seven matches. The duo would again win on Saturday to go unblemished for the weekend and stretch their streak to eight, but they could not salvage the doubles point for the Wildcats.

After falling behind 0-1, however, the 'Cats went on to win all of the six singles points in straight sets. Linville (No. 3), Meghan Fillnow ’05 (No. 4), and Kim Whelan ’08 (No. 6) each lost only three games in their straight-set victories. Meggie Patterson ’05 won 7-6, 4-6, 6-4 vs. WMU. Meanwhile, Kelly Fillnow ’05 (No. 1) won 6-3, 6-4, Patterson (No. 2) rolled to a 6-4, 6-1 victory, and Kate Levitt ’07 (No. 5) beat her opponent 6-4, 6-2.

The 'Cats further extended their winning streak to eight on Saturday against No. 45 Western Michigan. The Broncos have beaten three top-50 competitors so far this year, but they proved no match for the Wildcats. Davidson once again started slowly on Saturday and dropped the doubles point to open the match. The top team of Kelly and Meghan Fillnow lost 8-2, and the third team of Whelan and Lindsey Powel ’06 suffered an 8-3 defeat. Patterson and Linville were once again victorious, 8-5.

“It is always difficult when you lose the doubles point, but I think we showed that we know we can win, even when we suffer a loss,” said Linville.

After the tough beginning, the Wildcats again cruised to the overall match victory by claiming each of the six singles points. Linville, who won an impressive 6-2, 6-2 match, and Whelan, who had a 7-5, 6-2 victory, both have sparkling 12-2 personal records this season. Davidson clinched the victory when Levitt beat her opponent 6-1, 2-6, 7-5 in a hard-fought match. Kelly Fillnow had another solid singles performance, coming away with a 6-4, 6-0 triumph, while Patterson (7-6 (2), 4-6, 6-4) and Meghan Fillnow (1-6, 6-3, 6-4) each came out on top in three-set matches.

“We started off shaky in doubles and low on confidence based upon their national ranking,” said Kelly Fillnow. “After we lost the doubles point, we realized that we could compete right with these girls, and our energy began to rise, which [we] poured into each singles match.”

Davidson continues its seven-match homestand this week against Charlotte and Appalachian State.

Still “N-IT”: Wildcats storm past VCU, SWMS on roadDAVIDSON at Maryland
Wednesday, March 23
8:00 p.m. - televised on ESPN2

By WILL BRYAN
Staff Writer

The past week has been paradise for basketball junkies at Davidson and across the country, as upsets, big games, and round-the-clock coverage of college basketball have littered the airwaves. Beneath the radar of CBS coverage, however, in far-off locales such as Richmond, VA, and Springfield, MO, the Wildcats have been busy making noise in college basketball’s “other” postseason tournament, the NIT.

After the Wildcats lost in the semifinals of the Southern Conference tournament in Chattanooga, they were forced to settle for an invitation to the NIT as a reward for their stellar regular season. The bid marked Davidson’s fourth trip to the NIT, but the Wildcats were 0-3 in their first three trips.

This year, Davidson opened up play on the road against Virginia Commonwealth of the Colonial Athletic Association, and the Wildcats looked worse for the wear in the opening minutes of their opening-round match-up. In the first half against the Rams, the ’Cats could not buy a basket, shooting only 32.4 percent from the field. Strong interior defense and rebounding by Conor Grace ’05 and Logan Kosmalski ’05 kept the ’Cats close throughout the first half, though, and the Wildcats used a 7-2 run to close the half down just three. More importantly, the momentum appeared to be squarely in the Wildcat locker room at intermission.

That momentum translated into second-half success, as Davidson continued a season-long trend of strong play in the opening minutes of the second stanza. Against VCU, Davidson scored 14 points on its first five possessions to seize control of the game. “At halftime we told ourselves that we had been there before,” said Matt McKillop ’06. “We know how to shine in the second half, and we’ve been able to do that.”

Three-point shots began falling again for the Wildcats, as Brendan Winters ’06 and McKillop both turned it on from beyond the arc. Winters and Jason Morton ’06 both finished with 14 points, while Kenny Grant ’06 added 11 points and nine assists. Although VCU pulled within two at the 12-minute mark, the ’Cats offense responded.

Player of the Week
Brendan Winters, ‘06
Hometown: Denver, Colorado

In the Wildcats’ second-round NIT win over Southwest Missouri State, Winters scored a game-high 22 points on 7 of 10 shooting. Winters was 6 of 8 beyond the three-point arc and broke the Davidson single-season record for trifectas with his 85th of the year.

Basketball Major: English

Zage hits walk-off single to break deadlock

In a game that was characterized by dominant pitching, a simple single proved to be the game-winning hit. Going into the ninth inning, the ’Cats were locked in a 1-1 tie. Eli Benefield ‘05 chased UNCG starter Chris Mason out of the game with a leadoff double. Reliever Wes McCall promptly loaded the bases for Zage, who stroked a base hit and gave UNCG its first SoCon loss of the season.