THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2005 7

Moodswings to showcase emotional expression

By EMILY KOTA
Senior Staff Writer

Moodswings, a night of self-expression through visual and performing arts, will be held at 9:00 p.m. this Friday in the 900 Room. The event is hosted by the women of the Black Student Coalition, Alchemy, an open forum for women to discuss issues related to women of color, and SISTAHS. Erin Stephens ’05, one of the event’s organizers, explained that the night “was not developed to highlight talent, but to highlight self.”

The event consists of approximately 15 pre-planned performances, which have auditioned in order to be placed in different categories, according to the emotion that they convey. Categories of emotion, such as rage, sadness, elation, and love, provide the framework for the event, and act as guiding moods to organize performances.

Liz Mannino ’05 has been involved with the event since it began and said “that the theme of expressing moods fills a need on campus that unites a diverse group of people on the basis of common emotional experiences. Many people are most creative when they are feeling intense emotions, be it anger, sadness, or love.”

Each new mood category is introduced by a preview description of the mood represented along with representative music, and is then followed by the appropriate performances. The performances include dance, poetry, instrumental music, singing, and various forms of visual art. Visual art was added as a new element of the event its second year. The art is displayed before the event begins, and audience members arrive early to preview the artistic offerings.

Mannino said that “In spite of all of the other opportunities on campus for students to perform, Moodswings fills a special niche. The unique focus on emotional expression has meant a lot to me to be a part of an event that creates a safe space for women, and particularly minority women, to express themselves and their emotion. I actually believe events like Moodswings help to break the stereotypes of black women here on campus.”

The event began four years ago when some minority women on campus participated in a workshop with Saundra Thomas, a local counselor who works with many Davidson students, during the spring of 2002. According to Anthropology professor Dr. Nancy Fairley, who has been involved with the event since its conception, “The workshop helped minority women explore some of the social and psychological issues that affect their emotional expression through poetry, spoken word, music, or dance reaches out to many students each year.”

After the scheduled performances, the event shifts into open-microphone spontaneous performances. In the past, the open-microphone portion of the event has been longer than the planned performances, but every bit as moving. Stephens explained, “While the event is planned by women of color, we want to extend our experience to everyone.” Stephens also hopes to ensure the continuation of the event, even after she graduates this spring. She feels that the event makes influential contributions that benefit the entire college community.

Phia Salter ’05 is involved in the event’s planning and said Moodswings is not only a great event for the entire campus, but “even greater, a Multicultural Woman’s event.”

Friends of fast food

By TY WHITE
Staff Writer

Looking for a new friend outside the confines of the Davidson campus? Look no farther than your favorite fast food restaurants. Whether it’s a hangover meal to settle your stomach or a late-night snack to balance the beverage consumption with food, the fast food employees are always there for you. Let’s take a look at a few of the finest employees in the Davidson area:

Down at exit 28, there’s a little place we call Wendy’s. With a late-night drive-thru window, they’re there to satisfy your cravings. Come earlier in the day, though, and you may run into AJ, a high school student and one of Wendy’s’ most valued employees. He rattles off codes for orders into his microphone like an auctioneer putting a Pete Rose rookie card up for bidding — “Fivepiecehoneymustardsmokeycheddarburgerwildcherry.” When he’s not stuck behind the register, he’s still looking out for the customers. When a friend of mine decided to take the “Wendy’s Challenge,” which involved eating one of everything on the99¢ menu in under an hour, AJ was there with a receptacle for any of the food that might come back up. Just down the road from Wendy’s stands the pinnacle of Southern fast-food chains: Bojangles. Whether you prefer Southern, Cajun, or Roast, Bojangles is there for you. Waiting inside Bojangles with a smile as big as a double-wide is Jamie, a beautiful twenty-something woman whose smile never fades. Many a hungover Sunday afternoon has been lightened by that smile. No matter how bad a day she’s having, Jamie will always make your day a billion times better. One conversation I had with her went something like this: “Hey Jamie, how are ya?” “Awful,” she smiled. “I’m having an absolutely miserable day. Hope you have a great one!”

Within spitting distance of Bojangles is the quintessential late-night hot-spot: Waffle House. For generations, the young and the old alike have swarmed the booths and counters at the South’s most famous 24-hour diner. Our local Waffle House at exit 28 is home to the angel who calls herself “Mama Brenda.” Mama Brenda is a friendly middle-aged woman who truly loves her customers. Unlike many fast-food employees, Mama Brenda isn’t afraid to tell it like it is. “I better see some dollar bills on that table when y’all leave,” she huffs as we check out. “We live off tips, you know. We only make $2.25 an hour otherwise.” We first got to be close with Mama Brenda when she got into an argument with a friend of ours over the difference between “large” hashbrowns and a “double order” of hashbrowns (there isn’t any difference, it’s just the waitress jargon). When the friend, let’s call him Joe, was being disrespectful, Brenda threatened, “I will take you over my knee and spank you. They don’t call me Mama Brenda for nothing.” Since then, we always hope to see Mama Brenda on our late-night visits to the house of waffles. Recently, my heavily intoxicated roommate was seen mumbling, “Where is Mama Brenda? I need Mama Brenda,” with his head down on our booth table. Alas, she was nowhere to be found.

Next time you go out to eat in the Davidson area, or anywhere for that matter, be sure to appreciate those serving you. A simple smile their way can brighten their day. And if you get to know them a little bit, they can brighten yours as well.

Salter explained that at that time, “Black women here felt a lack of support from the larger community, the black male community, and from each other.” The workshop provided an opportunity for minority women to get to know each other and discuss their lives and struggles. For Stephens, the workshop provided a setting where the women “bridged some of the boundaries that hindered our relationships.” Through the course of the workshop, the participants learned a lot about themselves and others. Thomas urged the women to claim Davidson, focusing their efforts on making it a special place for themselves, while at the same time providing a unique contribution to the entire college community. The workshop participants explored ideas of how to produce an opportunity for other people to express struggles in their lives. According to Salter, “During one of those meetings we decided that we needed to have an expressive outlet on campus...and Moodswings was born.” The first performance was located in The Outpost, a house on Patterson Court that provided late-night food and a place for people to congregate, which no longer exists. For the past two years, the event has been held in the Black Student Coalition. At first, the BSC’s Patterson Court house was large enough, but due to the event’s growing popularity, the space became insufficient, causing this year’s change of venue to the 900 Room in the Union. Encouraging students to attend, Mannino said, “I have always been amazed and impressed by the performance of fellow students, and I am not alone.”

Join America’s #1 Student Tour Operator
Sell Trips, Earn Cash, Go Free!
Now Hiring
TRAVEL SERVICES
Call for group discounts
1-800-648-4849 / www.ststravel.com

Bonsai Grill and Sushi Bar
Bonsai Grill...Great Sushi, Chinese, and Thai in a cozy little place on 101 Depot Street, Davidson
Tel.: 704-892-2641
Fax: 704-895-8376
(Please call to confirm all faxed orders)
OPEN 6 DAYS A WEEK
LUNCH: (Mon.-Fri.) 11:00 am-2:30 pm (Sat.) 11:30 am-2:30 pm
DINNER: (Mon.-Thurs.) 5:00 pm-9:30 pm (Fri.-Sat.) 5:00 pm-10:00 pm
Come and check out our lunch menus... Hibachi Chicken, Pad Thai and more, starting only from $4.95. Awesome sweet tea! We will be open Sunday, May 8th for Mother's Day!