THE DAVIDSONIAN HUMOR
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2005

Townies: A conversation with Davidson hatmaker Vladimir Radovitchsky

Townies is a new Yowl series featuring weekly interviews with Davidson business owners and other local personalities.

Interviewer: Bill Denison ‘07
Interviewed: Vladimir Radovitchsky

The Yowl: Mr. Radovitchsky, let me first thank you so much for speaking to us today.
Vladimir Radovitchsky: It is my great pleasure to speak to the students of Davidson College.

TY: Maybe you could start by telling us a little bit about yourself?
VR: Of course. I am a Russian hatmaker, and I have a small hat stand on Main Street called ‘Hats, Hats, Hats.’ I have lived here in Davidson for about three years only, but I am enjoying it very much so.

TY: What made you decide to move to America all the way from Russia?
VR: Things were not going so good for me in Russia. I come from a poor family, and I have always dreamed of America as the land of opportunity. Also, a lot of people tell me I look kind of like popular American actor Burt Reynolds. So, I figured I would fit in here.

TY: What has been your impression of Davidson so far, both the town and the college?
VR: Davidson is a wonderful place. The best part is fashion. In Russia, we don’t so much have your types of clothes. Jeans and sweaters I very much like, but they are difficult to come by in my country. We usually just cut open a fresh bear every winter and create a cocoon out of it until the summer weeks begin in June. In July, we must kill a new bear or else freeze to death very much. Now I have many jeans and sweaters, and my own hat stand, stocked with over four hats.

TY: What has been the most difficult part about adapting to a new country and new culture?
VR: It was difficult for me at first to figure out what clothing size I was, because we go by a different system in Russia. You see, in bear, I am a size Siberian Grizzly long. But American clothing sizes do not run in bear. That was a tough transition to make.

TY: So how did you decide that you wanted to operate a hat stand? Was that your job in Russia?
VR: No, in Russia, I was a part-time gravedigger and insurance salesman. When I first arrived in America at a port in Lake Norman, I did not know a single person. To tell the truth, I was living on the street, without even a place to call home or a bear to keep me warm. I would poach local squirrels for food, and use their skins for clothes. Finally, I said to myself, ‘Vladimir, you must get a job! Pull yourself together!’ Then I thought, if you create a stand to sell squirrel skins, you are no longer a man on the street. You are a man with a squirrel stand. On the street.

TY: So you started making hats out of squirrels. Ingenious. How many squirrels does it take to make a hat?
VR: No, I began by selling just the squirrel skins. I realized soon this business was doomed. No one wants to buy just skins. So I glued all the skins together, and when I looked at it I said, ‘You look like a hat!’ To answer your question, I believe it takes about 1,000 squirrels to make one hat.

TY: One thousand squirrels to make just one hat?
VR: Oh, excuse me (laughs). That is the metric system. In American numbers, I would say it takes about eight or nine squirrels to make a hat.

TY: So what kind of styles do your hats come in? Do you have different colors or perhaps casual hats versus dress hats for formal attire?
VR: The hats pretty much just come in the one color and style, you know, squirrel. But my hats come in two sizes: Hat Ears Up and Hat Ears Down. When Hat Ears Up, brr... it is so cold. But when Hat Ears Down, warm!

TY: Do you have any study tips for the students at Davidson College during our exam period?
VR: Make sure to reward yourself. When I am working hard making hats from squirrel, I say “One squirrel, one shot of vodka.” Vodka makes you enjoy the work, because you know thatthe more you do, the more vodka you get to drink. One time, I worked so hard that I made a hat Hat Ears Down when I meant to make the hat Hat Ears Up! That is the same day that Vladimir had to pay a fine for public urination.

TY: Well, Mr. Radovitchsky, let me say on behalf of the staff of the Yowl and the Davidsonian, thank you so much for this wonderful interview.

VR: It is nothing. Davidson students, come to Hats, Hats, Hats for 15% off all squirrel hats and a free vodka shot with the use of your school’s Cat Card! Hats, Hats, Hats is usually located outside of the Exxon station, unless the Davidson Town Police have asked Mr. Radovitchsky to move on that day. Vladimir says to just look for the guy wearing a squirrel hat, jeans, and a sweater. Hat Ears Down!

Davidson community the losers in Christmas light competition

On Friday night around 10 p.m., the town of Davidson experienced a blackout lasting some three hours due to the drain in power caused by the Christmas lights on Patterson Court. While the college’s backup generators kicked in shortly after the blackout, giving all campus buildings electricity until power was brought back, the town was left without any electricity until after 1 a.m.

The blackout occurred while a number of horse-drawn carriages from Christmas at Davidson were taking a tour of the Patterson Court houses’ decorations. “The lights looked so good,” said Margaret Hunter, a Davidson resident. “It was just such a lovely tour on the carriage until the lights went out suddenly. The experience turned from magical to miserable pretty quickly when we realized that we were all sitting in the dark next to a frat house smelling horse manure.”

Rusk President Josie Garrison ’06 expressed her relief when she found out SAE would be held responsible. “I was worried that we had caused the whole thing, and that we'd get all the restrictions slapped on us. We had just plugged in an electric wreath that night, so we weren’t sure if we were going to be the ones who broke the limit.”

SAE Vice President Kevin Morley ’07 says he plans to protest the restrictions. “We didn’t go crazy like some houses and put lights up on every inch of our roof and nearby trees. We just wanted to have a few lights around the door so we could see the people in the carriages that we were yelling at. That’s not something we should be held responsible for. I mean, they should get on some of these houses that have polar bears and reindeer and elves and stuff in their yards; they’re the real cause of the power problems, not us.”

Patterson Court Council representative John Richards ’06 said, “Every year, right after Thanksgiving, we tell the plant to have a few backups on hand for all the lights that Sigma Phi Epsilon puts up, so they were prepared for that. This year, though, so many lights went up around the Court — unexpectedly — and we could not warn the manager of the power plant in time. The results were regrettable, but we’re happy to report that there haven’t been any problems since Friday.”

Inquiries into the specifics of Friday night have determined that the electricity consumption on the Court was within tolerance until Sigma Alpha Epsilon plugged in three strings of outdoor lights to string up around the door. Richards has stated that the fraternity will be placed on probation for their actions and that the Council has yet to determine further restrictions. Of course, they have been declared ineligible in the campus decorations contest as well.

Patterson Court regulations, however, stipulate a clear “first come, first serve” policy on resources like electricity and water. By regulation, therefore, the last house to plug in something when a power outage occurs is considered responsible for causing that outage. Damage caused by accidents and losses during the power outage total $9000, which the college has agreed to pay by using the excess money from the Activities Tax Council.

Town council spokeswoman Harriett Woodall, however, suggests that reimbursement is insufficient. “The college interferes with town life all the time, and we tolerate it. But this latest incursion of college life on the livelihoods of town residents is just too much. It’s about time the students do some service around here and give back to the community.” Woodall intends to present her argument to the Board of Trustees in March.