10 PERSPECTIVES THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 2005

Staff Editorial

Wasting student money

Student money should no longer fund the Artist Series. Four or five times each academic year, the Union Board invites
nationally-recognized performing arts groups to campus, the idea being to broaden the horizons of Davidson students culturally and artistically. While
the nationally recognized groups are known within music, theater, and dance circles, they are not known in student circles. Consequently,
student turnout is frequently low. In a sold-out show, faculty, staff, and community will usually outnumber students three-to-one.

It seems absurd that the Activities Tax Council should give more than $40,000, nearly one-eighth of its annual allocations, to
support events from which a large number of students do not benefit. ATC, whose money comes from one percent of
tuition from each student, funds the concerts, club sports, student government, campus publications, the Black Student Coalition, community service groups,
and more. In essence, every student at Davidson is paying roughly $25 in all each year for the events, whether
or not they attend. On top of that, students must pay an additional ticket price of $10 to $25 per
show.

What is more, during its annual allocations, the ATC frequently haggles with worthy student organizations over $100 here, $200 there,
just to get the sum of all club budgets under their cap. Taken alone, the Artist Series allocation represents the
second-largest allocation annually, after what the rest of the Union Board receives. That money could better serve other student organizations,
several of which can expect no more than $1,000 of ATC funding annually.

There is no doubt that the Artist Series adds something to the Davidson campus culture, and this is not a
call to abolish the Artist Series altogether. It clearly fills a void in the diversity of performance types and brings
some students and many community members together. WDAV 89.9 FM is a good example of how the Artist Series might
be run. The radio station is a private, member-supported service of Davidson College. The Artist Series, too, should be a
community-oriented service that can also benefit students, instead of a student-subsidized production that primarily benefits community members. This would more
accurately reflect the participation in the programs.

A fund-raising drive or general college money could be used to create an initial foundation to support the Series. Ticket
prices could be raised to more accurately reflect the value community members place on a night of high culture and
to cover more of the cost. Use that tuition money to better serve the students by funding more pertinent priorities
like Ars Longa, a new Vamanos Van, club baseball uniforms, April at the Lake, or more Community Bikes.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel

Managing Editor
Mike Giglio

News Editors
Liz Barry, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia

Perspectives Editor
Matt Bandyk

Arts & Living Editors
Elizabeth Burkhead & Sara Sams

Yow! Editor
Brendan Parets

Sports Editors
Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrory

Photography Editor
Dorsett Clark

Business Manager
Page Persons

Advertising & Circulation Managers
Janelle Milanes

Letters to the Editor

Opportunities at Teach for America

I am a first-year corps member with Teach For America in Charlotte. Last year I was overwhelmed with the thought
of what I might like to do after graduation. Though I had no concept of what specific job I wanted,
I knew I wanted to be working toward making our world a more just place. I was appalled by the
statistics I heard about our country’s educational system. I didn’t know how staggering the damage of an inadequate education could
be. After hearing TFA presentations, I knew that this was how I wanted to help. I know that working with
children is the best way to bring about the long-term change our country needs.

Though I thought I had some idea, I didn’t know how hard and how honestly gratifying this job would be.
I work longer and harder with my students than I ever did under the curse of the Davidson workload. Some
days my workday lasts from 6:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. (and I bring work home with me). Yet I love
being able to do what I am doing. In the morning, my students will walk in without any idea of
what a valuable life experience, to grow as a teacher and a person, and to help me realize what is
important in the world. And nothing is more important than education.

As a graduating senior from Davidson, you have many options. I want to encourage you to use your many gifts
to educate others. I highly recommend Teach For America. The last application deadline is midnight on Friday, Feb. 18. If
you have any questions, please email me at anna.mallett@cms.k12.nc.us. I would love to talk with you about my job. My
students at Albemarle Road and our country’s students deserve good teachers. Please consider applying to Teach for America.

Anna Mallett ’04Main idea is, and by 3 p.m., they walk out of the school building unable to get the
“main idea” song out of their heads. The “No Blood For Oil” crowd has long considered it a brilliant revelation
to equate George W. Bush with the 9/11 hijackers. I even remember a few “George W. Bush = International Terrorist”
t-shirts on this campus during the run-up to the Iraq war. But it seems that Che Guevara-worshipping hipsters aren’t the
only ones on the American left who think this way. Last week, Baltimore Mayor Martin O’Malley said, “Back on September
11, terrorists attacked our metropolitan cores... Years later, we are given a budget proposal by the president of the United
States. And with a budget ax, he is attacking America’s cities.” It’s apparently not enough to say that Bush’s proposed
cuts in social spending will worsen poverty. No, it’s worse than that—they are an attack upon the poor. This choice
of language reveals a sentiment that permeates our political discourse and ethical thinking. Many others on the left political spectrum
have employed arguments similar to (but usually not as extreme as) O’Malley’s to characterize downsizes in government as “stealing” from
the poor, with theft being a clear attack. Every moral inclination tells us that unprovoked attacks on innocent people are
wrong. That is why O’Malley employed this powerful language—it makes us think that if we support Bush’s budget, then we
support hurting innocent civilians just like the terrorists did. And after all, upon first reconsideration, it seems obvious that denying
aid to the poor is committing a harmful act against them. Think about the beggar on the street—if I don’t
give him a dollar, he may not eat that night. So if I ignore him, aren’t I responsible for his
starvation? By not helping him, I’ve made him worse off. That certainly seems similar, if not identical, to an attack.

But a reasoned analysis of this ethical principle of “attack through lack of aid” reveals a misunderstanding of the idea
of an attack. To attack someone is to directly interfere with him and change his condition so that he is
worse off than he was before. Murder, theft, rape—they all meet this definition. But can we really say that not
helping someone is an interference with that person? The beggar would certainly like me to give him a dollar. But
I did nothing to make his starting condition worse. He didn’t have a dollar before I came by, and he
didn’t have one after I left. But maybe defining an attack as interference is too restrictive. Perhaps there are more
subtle ways to attack someone, like me not making someone better off even though I had the chance. But if
I am morally obligated to give the beggar a dollar, lest I become an attacker, then why am I not
obligated to give him two dollars? That would make him better off than he would be with one dollar. And
why not another? And yet another? If not helping someone is an act of harm, then there’s no clear point
at which one could help someone else enough for it to ever cease to be an act of harm. Therefore,
one could never seriously accuse another of committing a moral error by violating this principle: It indicts everyone in the
world, at all times because they are all guilty of not helping someone who could gain from assistance (which is
everyone!), and no one could ever do enough to absolve him or herself of this “crime.”

Are Bush’s budget cuts any different than my above example? One possibly important difference is that these spending programs were
already in place. If I fail to maintain an aid effort that we have already begun, perhaps then I am
finally guilty of an attack. The law at first seems to support this assertion: if you start to publicly aid
someone in need of emergency assistance, then you have a legal duty to follow through with the aid, because your
initiation of help may have deterred other potential “Good Samaritans.” But that principle does not apply to the Bush example.
Far from deterring them, if anything, spending cuts will encourage people to donate to charity for the poor because they
will see that the government isn’t footing the bill as much as before.

O’Malley’s reckless language is ethically unsound, and so is any accusation that cuts in welfare or Social Security benefits, to
name a few, are “robbery.” Let us stop this charade that anyone who favors small government over aid programs is
somehow in the same moral realm as a terrorist.

Matt Bandyk, a junior political science major from Tampa, FL., is the section editor of Perspectives. Contact him at mabandyk@davidson.edu.
