16 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2005

Loss to UNC-G ends hope of NCAA tourney berth

By Erik SWANSON
Staff Writer

After one of their most successful regular seasons in recent memory, the men’s soccer team fell one step short of
their ultimate goal on Sunday. A 2-1 victory over Furman on Saturday in the semifinals of the Southern Conference tournament
left the team on the doorstep of the NCAA tournament, with only UNC-Greensboro in their way. But the pressure of
the championship match and the talent of the nationally-ranked Spartans got the better of the Wildcats, as Greensboro snatched the
SoCon’s automatic NCAA berth with a 2-1 win.

The ’Cats reached the championship by virtue of Saturday night’s win over Furman, which completed a season sweep over the
Paladins. Matt Allen ’06 scored two first-half goals against Furman, providing all the scoring Davidson would need to advance to
the finals.

The Wildcats and Spartans could not have been more evenly matched. Both teams entered Sunday’s contest with identical 14-5-1 season
records and matching 5-1 conference records. The only previously scheduled match between the two teams this season was rained out.

The Spartans started the scoring in the 14th minute to take a 1-0 lead, but Allen re-tied the game two
minutes later, scoring from 12 yards out for his third goal of the tournament and ninth of the season off
a Cass Baltz ’07 assist. Greensboro regained the lead, 2-1, in the 40th minute, scoring in a one-on-one confrontation with
Davidson keeper Ben Ashton ’08.

Davidson had one more great opportunity to score in the 69th minute, but Mac Wilkie’s (’07) header off a corner
kick was punched just over the goal. Time ran out on the Wildcats’ comeback efforts, leaving the team one goal
short of extending their season.

“I thought we played well at times, but we just couldn’t string it together for a full 90 minutes,” said
Allen, who thought the excitement of the championship match affected the team’s performance. “The game could’ve gone either way, but
in the end I didn’t think we played with the confidence we showed in the semifinal game.”

The Wildcats finished the season with a 14-6-1 record and only two conference losses, while making their third

By MARK CLAYTON
Staff Writer

While Davidson fans struggled to find a marquee victory in recent years, they now need not look further than last
Saturday’s 10-3 win at Georgetown. The ’Cats came into the game limping from losing three straight, but this weekend they
put together a total team effort to end their season on a high note with a win on the road
against the respected Patriot League Hoyas.

Saturday’s game marked the final game for 10 seniors, but the whole team played with the same sense of urgency.
Davidson came out firing early in the first quarter. A 33-yard strike from Ryan Alexander ’08 to Jake Rice ’06
sparked the first drive of the game. The ’Cats drove all the way to the Hoya 22-yard line before the
drive stalled out. Brad Smith was true on the 39-yard field goal attempt, and Davidson took an early 3-0 lead.

The game was defensive all day long, but a Georgetown fumble on their own 29 late in the second quarter
was recovered by Brendan Watkins ’07 and ignited the Davidson offense. Alexander scampered for a 16-yard run, and after Jordan
Sundheimstraight appearance in the conference championship match. The team boasted several individual honors as well. In the regular season, John
Latting ’06 was named First Team All-SoCon, while Nahum Navas ’06 and Baltz were named to the Second Team. Allen,
Navas, and Marco Antunez ’07 were named to the SoCon All-Tournament Team. “It was an amazing season,” said Allen. “We
had fun and we came together to go on a run at the end.” The Wildcats seniors conclude their careers
as the school’s all-time winningest class. Allen, Latting, Navas, Jeff Davis ’06, Preston Davis ’06, Jordan Hauser ’06, and Will
Carroll ’06 posted a 50-28-8 record in their four years at Davidson, including an NCAA tournament appearance in 2003. “It’s
tough to put these four years into words,” said Allen. “It’s been an amazing time making friends and playing the
game that I love.”

Latting ’06 is one of seven seniors whose last game was Sunday. Wildcats finish with upset win against Georgetown. Chad
Barnes ’09 had one carry for nine yards in football’s 10-3 win vs. Georgetown. With 1:03 remaining in the first
half, Davidson extended its lead to 10-0, which carried into halftime. Latting ’06 converted a crucial fourth and inches, the
’Cats looked to capitalize. Alexander found Ryan Hubbard ’08 across the middle for a 10-yard throw and catch. The extra
point was good, and Davidson extended its lead to 10-0, which carried into halftime.

The second half was much like the first: a 37-yard completion from Alexander to Hubbard moved Davidson into scoring position,
but a Smith 30-yard field goal was blocked. Later on in the third quarter, the Wildcat defense again handed the
offense the ball in great position after yet another fumble recovery. Starting on the GU 18, Davidson eventually faced a
fourth and goal from the one-yard line. Jonathan Hubbard ’07 was denied the touchdown, and the ’Cats were kept off
the board for the second time of the half. Not to worry, because the Davidson defense was the backbone of
the team in the game. Led by the PFL Defensive Player of the Week, linebacker Alex Arinsmier ’06, who had
16 tackles on the day, the defense kept Georgetown out of the end zone. The ’Cats forced four fumbles, with
recoveries by Watkins and Zach Long ’08, and Patrick FitzGerald ’08 recorded his sixth interception of the season. “In terms
of execution and dominating every facet of the game, it was the best game we have played in my four
years at Davidson,” said Arinsmier. Everyone looks at offense and defense in the stats sheet, but Davidson’s special team units
were crucial in the victory. Punter See Football, page 15

defensive-minded and hard-hitting. After a Player of the Week Alex Arinsmier ’06 Football Hometown: Cincinnati, Ohio Major: Political Science

PLAY OF THE WEEK Matt Allen’s goals in the SoCon Tournament. Allen ’06 had two goals in the ’Cats 2-1
win over Furman in the SoCon semifinals. Then he scored again when his team was trailing 1-0 vs. UNC-G in
the SoCon Championship to tie the game. Although the ’Cats eventually lost the game 2-1, the team did finish their
season 14-6-1 and play in their third championship game in as many years. In his last collegiate game, Arinsmier had
16 tackles and one sack in the ’Cats’ 10-3 win at Georgetown. He finished the season averaging 10.8 tackles, good
enough for first place in the PFL. He was also named PFL Defensive Player of the Week.
