LIVING THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2005

Dance Ensemble puts student talent on full display
By PAIGE TAYLOR
Senior Staff Writer

“Taal se Taal Mila” means “join your beat to mine.” As the co-choreographed piece of six dancers in Dance Ensemble’s concert this weekend, that exotic title may have been the theme of the night. Upperclassmen who had seen the show in previous years knew what to expect: cat calls, whooping from friends in the audience, and high-octane entertainment.

Although the show consisted of more than 80 dancers, few realize how much practice even the simplest dances demand. Shannon Bradshaw ’07 spent eight hours in the week of the performance practicing her three dances. She said, “When I perform, no matter how much I rehearse, being on stage and receiving so much energy from the audience really helps!” Indeed, the audience is a crucial factor for the DE concerts; it is the audience’s responsive enthusiasm that reminds dancers to smile brighter, kick higher, and let the beat charge the movement.

Sally Stephenson ’09 recalls, “When I saw the spring performance at Decision Davidson ... it looked like everyone was having so much fun, and I knew it was something I wanted to do.” Anyone in Duke Performance Hall on Friday and Saturday nights realized that Dance Ensemble has developed into a fun organization with opportunities for every step of experience. Nafisa Isa noticed this expansion: “DE has grown because of the variety of dances. It started off with the normal stuff, but now that there are (other) pieces, people who just want to try something new are getting really excited about it.”

Dance Ensemble has grown into the largest student-run organization on campus. Kendal Stewart ’06, president of DE, dancer, and choreographer, attributes this growth since her freshman year to “more and more students ... realizing that dance is fun and that everyone can dance!” Like Stephenson, newcomers to Dance Ensemble feel the energy that comes only from enjoyment of performance. Naturally, eager amateurs and even the experienced sign up to find out what this dance hype is all about.

The night of the performance does not evolve from lazy days or improvisational hit-or-miss. Some dancers like Lucy Marcil ’06, tech director of DE, practiced 12 hours a week alongside meetings for the DE board. She admits that “a lot of improvements always occur during the week before the show.” Howell Burke ’09, a dancer in “Sock Hop,” said, “I felt fairly comfortable with the performance, considering we changed lots at the last minute.” Last-minute improvements are a taste of reality for performers; what looks good in front of a mirror might not work on stage or with several dancers that are supposed to be in sync. Carlos Ortiz ’07, choreographer of the salsa favorite “What Happened, Happened.”

Sauce lacks spice
By KATIE HUNTER & MIKE WELLMAN
Senior Staff Writers

Promising succulent Italian cuisine, Sauce Italian Grill in Cornelius looks like a ray of hope for those who have grown tired of microwaving Spaghetti-O’s in their dorm microwave. Sauce features a variety of Italian fare, ranging from standards such as lasagna and cheese ravioli to more creative seafood-inspired specialties, like the Seafood Fra Diavolo.

While the crimson walls and dimmed lighting give Sauce an intimate atmosphere, the décor struck us as plain and uninspired. Billing itself as an Italian grill, Sauce seemed more like a chic French bistro, lacking the welcoming, warm atmosphere one would usually associate with a friendly Italian establishment. We started off with a classic Italian appetizer of bruschetta, which at...Sauce was prepared with fresh mozzarella, tomato, onion, and basil on focaccia crustinis. Though both of us were impressed with the tasteful presentation, our opinions of the first course differed. While one reviewer found the bruschetta tasty, the other found the tomatoes overly sweet and the cheese too cold, being used to the more traditional, warm form of the dish. Our entrees came within a reasonable amount of time following the appetizer, and the presentation was again pleasing to the eye. For the tongue, however, the same could not be said. The Shrimp and Tortellini, advertised as being cooked in a sweet tomato and garlic sauce, disappointed both reviewers because of its excessive spiciness. So much pepper had been used in preparing the dish that it was difficult to eat without drinking water. As a whole, the dish was very nicely presented, but poor in quality. The Eggplant Rotini, one of the “Chef’s Specialties,” fared a bit better. Described as a “parmesan encrusted eggplant filled with a five cheese blend,” the dish was served alongside lightly-seasoned potatoes and sautéed mixed vegetables, which made it a well-rounded meal lacking in flavorful Italian authenticity. The “five cheese blend” tasted just like romano cheese, while the marinara sauce was very basic. The potatoes were actually the most flavorful part, crispy and coated in just the right blend of peppers and seasoning. Rounding out the evening, we couldn’t resist ordering an Italian favorite, the cannoli, which was easily the best part of our meal. A single order came with two cannolis topped with chocolate sauce, which was plenty to satisfy our post-dinner appetites. On the whole, our experience at Sauce was enjoyable, but we felt as if the food’s mediocrity and lack of authenticity didn’t justify the price or live up to our expectations of a night out at a nice Italian restaurant. Sauce is in Cornelius next to McAllister’s and Ben and Jerry's.

“Between Us,” said, “I constantly had to modify my choreography to fit the dancers’ desires and abilities.” After at least six weeks of rehearsal, most dancers felt prepared and excited to strut on stage. And how could they not? With strobe lights, intense music, and a crowd that loves them, Dance Ensemble performers ate the night’s energy with a sequin spoon. Dances ranged from ballet to modern, with the Reid sisters awing the crowd with synchronized beauty, and hip hop (inducing the loudest hooting) to tap, with the exclamations of Liz Dover ’07 and Patricia Massey ’07 loosening strings. Clockwise from left, sophomores Liz Grundstein, Alice Frimpong, Nafisa Isa, Katie Eastland, and Erika Weiberg perform in last week’s Dance Ensemble. Even a choreographer from North Carolina’s Dance Theatre created a duet, “Holding a Restless Hand,” for the show. The Dance Team made their debut with thunder, and Shades of Brown proved white is just a paler bronze. Dance Ensemble is an organization that encourages daring strides in the fine arts. Hundreds of students will have participated throughout their college lives, much to the delight of the Ensemble’s founders several years ago. Whether a performer or cheerleader in the audience, each student joins the beat of an ever-pleasing and rewarding dance.

Quitting cold turkey alone can be difficult. With Quitline NC, you don’t have to go it alone. Call 1-800-QUIT-NOW (1-800-784-8669) any time between 8 a.m. and midnight to talk to a professionally trained Quit Coach. They'll help you stay tobacco-free for good.