THE DAVIDSONIAN

Service, continued from page 1

Molinary’s sudden resignation has had a strong impact on many Bonner Scholars. “I understand that Rosie has felt moved to leave Davidson due to her disagreement with one of the college’s underlying principles,” Adam Gerstenmier ’05 said. “Rosie’s decision was meant to make a statement regarding this principle, and it surely will.”

Bonner Scholar Megan Roberts ’07 also commented on Molinary’s departure. “I think it is a shame that Rosie will be leaving Davidson, however, I support her decision to do so,” she said. “Rosie’s enthusiasm towards devoting our lives to our community and to our beliefs has brought inspiration to me and others. She will be greatly missed.”

Ahsan Lee will complete her two-year term as Community Service Fellow this June. She plans on working for a nonprofit organization in Charlotte next year. Ahsan Lee has noticed the growth of various community service programs at the College within the past two years alone. “During my time at Davidson, the service programs have really come into their own,” she said. “Since I have been working here, we've started an internship program that allows students to have a chance to work in the office which has been really positive for us and them.”

Pittard has watched the Community Service Office grow and evolve from the part-time job it was 30 years ago to the successful program it is today. Pittard and Molinary are confident about the strength of the office they are leaving. “We live in a place that believes and puts its resources behind its beliefs,” Molinary said.

A committee is currently trying to find Pittard’s replacement. Once found, this person will help select Molinary’s successor. Katie Lipsett ’05 will take the place of Ahsan Lee in the fall. Bonner Scholar Sarah Caitlin Mattingly ’06 is certain that the Community Service Office will continue to be successful in reaching out to students and enacting its mission. “I think what they [Molinary and Pittard] are doing takes a lot of courage, and I really respect them for that,” Mattingly said. “Ruth is leaving to travel around the country doing service work, and Rosie is leaving because of a college practice she disagrees with on an idealistic level. We are all going to miss them so much, but I think that they’ve taught us well and are now called to be living examples of their work.”

by Jessica Heule

2005 Omicron Delta Kappa Inductees

Omicron Delta Kappa is a national leadership honor society which recognizes students for leadership in campus or community service, social and religious activities, athletics, student government, journalism, and the creative and performing arts. Juniors and seniors who have significantly contributed to campus life in one of these areas and who are ranked in the top 35% of their class are eligible for membership. Members of the Davidson College Chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa feel that the following students deserve to be recognized with this award:

Alison Marie Anderson
Christopher Yeatts Anderson
Ashley Elizabeth Barber
April Lynn Barnado
Rebecca Behizadeh
Kevin Kirby Bell
Stephanie Bouts
Sarah Ashcom Budischak
Yin Chow
Erin Frances Cobain
Daniel Eppes Coslett
Brendan Michael Dete
Kelly Erin Fillnow
Meghan Ashley Fillnow
Laura Julia Filosa
Michael Barton Flake
Amanda Sophie Green
Courtney Richter Hamilton
Jessica Suzanne Heilweil
Leslie Hirst Hempson
Anderson Patrick Heston
Nupur Murugesh Hiremath
Frankie Taylor Jones, Jr.
Hannah Kim
Caroline Bryer Levy
Elizabeth Ellen Mannino
Lucy Evelyn Marcil
Garrett M. Monda
Elizabeth Anne Pandolfi
George Barratt Park III
Amee Govind Patel
Emily Annette Pinson
McLean Montgomery Quinn
Walker Fleming Saik
Kevin O'Neil Saunders
Andrew Daniel Schapiro
William Simon Scheffers, Jr.
Leslie Michelle Smith
Sally Keirsey Stanhope
Kendal Anne Stewart
Joseph Jeffrey Taylor
Marc Orion Vinson
Rachael Jo Voyles
Brenda Marie Weigand
Katherine H. Winter
Andrew Dennis Yancey
Heather Marie Yopp
Kathryn Linn Zeh

Faculty Inductee: Fred H. Smith
Staff Inductee: James Nash

Religion, continued from page 1

to talk about meetings with departments.” Ross did say that he recognized the potential difficulties of establishing a new chair and believes that the meeting helped provide some context for the decision. “Departments should have a sensitivity to these issues, so I take no offense that they asked questions about the timing,” Rosssaid. Within the Religion Department itself, reaction to the meeting was mixed. 

“There was a gaining of mutual understanding of the two views and I got the sense that we said what can be said and that we were understood,” Plank said. Others still expressed disappointment after the meeting. “I think the President tried to convince us that in the discussion the trustees had there was no perception that the religion department was bad, which in some ways is comforting,” Foley said. “But I felt like you can either be thought badly of or you can not be thought of at all and both can be equally hurtful, and it seems clear to me that the latter was what occurred here.”

The faculty did agree that creating such a chair might be appropriate for a school such as Davidson, but they said that the timing for such a chair is wrong. “Creating a chair in Reformed theology isn’t bad but it has to do with the timing,” said Foley. “To add another position of theology at this time gives us too much of one thing, namely Christian thought, and makes us short on others.” Ross, however, believes that sometimes such timing issues are hard to avoid. “There is always the possibility of an issue associated with the timing of a proposal to establish a chair,” he said. “Donors can well approach the College before we have discussed a prospect with a department.”

Implications for future growth

The move to create an endowed chair in Reformed theology raises several questions as to how the Religion Department will be able to grow in the future. This new chair is the second that was not the result of a formal request from the Religion Department added in recent years. The last chair added to the department was the Rolston chair in science and religion, which was created after a donation was made specifically to endow an expert in that area. According to Plank, for both the new chair in Reformed theology and the Rolston chair in science and religion, the Religion Department had little or no say in what areas the new faculty members would teach. The department was able to write the advertisement and chose the finalists for the Rolston professorship within the context of the chair’s purpose, however.

With two new faculty members added to the Religion Department in such a short amount of time, there is a concern within the department that they will not be able to offer new courses in areas where they currently lack expertise, such as Islam. Vagt and Ross did try to assuage concerns at the meeting that these new chairs would not affect the department’s ability to grow. “If there is a clear deficiency curricularly within the offerings in religion and we have the funds to address the issue, we will remedy such a situation,” Ross said. Some faculty remain skeptical of that claim, however. “While the President and the Dean tried to assure us that this decision would not affect our department’s expansion in directions of our own choosing, I do think it will be hard for us to make a fair case for such expansion if there are other departments that have classrooms consistently more packed than ours,” Foley said.

Going forward

Despite the concerns within the department, Plank feels it is important to try and work with the administration and the trustees as much as possible to ensure that whoever is chosen for the position will be the best fit for the department. Among the best ways Plank sees to ensure both the College and the department benefit from the new chair is to have the department play an active role in the search for the new faculty member. “The president assured us that the process would be one of integrity and that we would have a voice in the matter,” Plank said. “We will try and find someone whose theological interests don’t overlap too much with the existing department.”

---

University of North Carolina Wilmington
Summer School 2005

Session I: May 19 - June 21
Session II: June 27 - July 28

For more information, call 910.962.3243 or 910.962.3876 or 800.589.2829
Email: summer@uncw.edu
Visit our website: www.uncw.edu/summsch

Equal opportunity/affirmative action institution