12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE WEEK AHEAD

For you sports fans...

WILSON’S PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat Game of the Week
Basketball vs. Wofford
Belk Arena
Saturday, Feb. 26, 7:00 p.m.

I know everybody is stomping down the door to get out of Davidson for Spring Break next week, so you
probably won’t be going to this game. Let’s say, hypothetically, that you are on campus and you don’t have any
work to do. You would surely go to the game against Wofford at Belk Arena to see if the men
can hold on for their first undefeated.

SPORTS
By JEFF HAMILTON
Staff Columnist

Are you ready for some baseball? I’m not. Was it not just yesterday that the Boston Red Sox came back
from three games down in the ALCS and went on to sweep the World Series? No, I guess that was
just me watching my “Faith Rewarded” DVD, again. But still, let’s look at why this year’s MLB season can never
live up to last year’s marvelous, stunning, and deliriously remarkable season.

As spring training revs up this week, and field players report to Florida and Arizona to join their pitchers and
catchers in wind sprints, I just wonder if we shouldn’t maybe put this season on hold, NHL-style. Well, not NHL-style,
but maybe cryogenics-style, a la Ted Williams/Austin Powers. What we need is for the 2004 season to be frozen in
time, preserving the memory of a season that had it all. I’m not just talking about the first championship for
a certain team since a certain year; I’m talking about a sport that captured the nation’s attention like it had
not done in years.

Last fall, as playoff games kept us up well into the night, preventing us from doing our homework with dazzling
heroics and climactic finales, I heard girls around school boasting that their entire apartment watched “last night’s playoff game.” Not
only did they watch, but they could now name the entire starting batting order for both teams. Not to sound
misogynistic, but that does not happen. Girls do their homework; they don’t get caught up with baseball.

It seems that fan support for the game had finally returned after last year to the stronghold it asserted before
the 1994 strike, a level we also witnessed momentarily in 1998 with the McGwire-Sosa home run battle. People were genuinely
excited about baseball and the Cinderella storylines it was producing in 2004. But now, in an off-season that has produced
many more questions than answers, Jose Canseco’s book appears poised to rip the game back down to Earth. At this
point, the amount of truth in Canseco’s account feels like it may be...

Furman over Charleston
The fight for the South Division’s third seed should be a great game. Furman’s only home conference loss was to
Davidson over a month ago, and the Paladins will be looking to keep their home conference win streak alive on
Wednesday.
Drew: Furman
Wilson: Charleston

Saturday, February 26
UTC over Furman
UTC earned the North Division’s number one seed with a win at ETSU on Monday night, and a win over
Furman will keep the Mocs’ momentum rolling into the upcoming conference tournament.
Drew: UTC
Wilson: UTC

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2005

The Red Sox run to the championship embodies everything good in baseball.smaller than the dwindling number of friends he has
left in the game. All for a dollar, right? Speaking of dollars, we find the New York Yankees again loading
up this off-season. Their 2004 payroll ended up at a league-leading $184 million, while second place was more than $50
million behind. At least they won something. Owner George Steinbrenner insists on continually driving up the market value on players
who become his sycophantic puppets, attempting to churn out wins at no other expense (excuse the pun). Why don’t we
hear more about Steinbrenner driving up the market value on giving to charity? Would it not be more satisfying to
lead the world in donations than overpaying athletes? Eight players on the Yankees will make more than $10 million this
year on a payroll that promises to be around $200 million by season’s end.

Also, don’t forget these stellar moments from baseball’s off-season: Sammy Sosa demanding a trade from his beloved Cubs team; Doug
Mientkiewicz trying to demand a top-dollar price from his own team for the ownership rights to the ball he caught
to cap the World Series victory; the Washington Nationals overlooking education expenditure in the D.C. area in hopes of building
a new stadium for their new team. In all, they make us question the importance our culture places on sport.
Despite all these antics, shenanigans, and general tomfoolery, however, I lied. Give me some baseball; I can’t wait.

GSU over ETSU
After losing four of its last five games, look for GSU to get back on track at home against ETSU.
Come March, the Eagles do not want to limp into Chattanooga for a chance at a possible NCAA tournament berth.
Drew: GSU
Wilson: GSU

App State over Elon
I don’t know what hurts more: my losing record last week, or another Elon victory. After Monday night’s SoCon action
completed, Elon held the North’s fourth seed with a 4-10 conference record. In comparison, 8-6 Furman is in fourth in
the South. Just another reason the South reigns supreme over the North.
Drew: Elon
Wilson: App State

UNCG over WCU
Western is the worst team in the league, sporting a 3-11 conference record as of Feb. 21. I would suspect
it may bump into fellow bottom dweller The Citadel in Chattanooga at the six-story IMAX Theater after the first day
of the conference tournament.
Drew: UNCG
Wilson: UNCG

Charleston over The Citadel
The Citadel has lost eight straight games, and there is no reason to think Charleston won’t make it nine in
a row on Saturday. About the only thing the Bulldogs should be looking forward to for the rest of the
season is their trip to Chattanooga, where maybe, if they’re lucky, coach Pat Dennis will take them to the world-renowned
Tennessee Aquarium.
Drew: Charleston
Wilson: Charleston

Davidson over Wofford
This is a scary game for ‘Cats fans. Davidson can cap off a perfect season with a win in Belk
Arena against Wofford. Most of the students won’t be at the game, and Wofford is currently on a four-game conference
win streak, but I don’t expect Davidson to throw away a shot at its first conference undefeated season since 1995-96.
Drew: Davidson
Wilson: Davidson

Last week: 6-5
Overall: 31-13
