THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2005

13

Women’s basketball looks to ‘take the next step’

By WILL BRYAN
Staff Writer

“Take the next step.”

That is the motto that women’s basketball coach Annette Watts has her players repeating all through this offseason. After coming
off of a season where the Wildcats set a school record with 18 wins on the backs of some strong
underclassmen, Watts hopes this year the team can build off that success and do even greater things. The Wildcats lost
a close game in the Southern Conference semifinals last year to eventual champion Western Carolina, and this year they hope
to avenge that loss.

Despite only graduating one starter in career 1,000-point scorer Emily Callahan ’05, this year’s Wildcat squad will be without All-Southern
Conference player Katie Hamilton ’07, who suffered a season-ending injury before practice started.

“Replacing Hamilton’s contributions at both ends of the court will be a challenge, but we have the talent to overcome
that,” said Watts. “But leadership-wise, you can’t replace what Hamilton brought to the floor.”

In the backcourt, the Wildcats will look to returning starter Tia Washington ’07 to run the point guard position. Last
year, the Wildcats led the Southern Conference in the assists-per-game average, and Washington was a strong catalyst for her team
as she dished out 104 assists on the season.

She will be joined by classmate Jessica Mitchell ’07 at the wing spot. Mitchell hit nearly 40 percent of her
three-point attempts last season, while setting career highs for herself in nearly every statistical category.

The ’Cats look to have some scoring help off the bench at the guard spot as they are returning Amanda
Horne ’06 and Honna Housley ’08 from an injury last season. These two will be further helped by the addition
of two first-years in Kelly Gassie ’09 and Drew Lindsey ’09. Both Gassie and Lindsey are exciting players who will
look to learn from the upperclassmen and develop into stronger players.

In the frontcourt, the Wildcats will first look to Danielle Hemerka ’08, who will be playing in both the guard
and forward positions this season. Last year, Hemerka was named to the Southern Conference All-Freshman team as she recorded nearly
eight points-per-game and six rebounds-per-game. With the loss of Hamilton, Hemerka will be called upon to be one of the
Wildcat’s top scorers.

Anchoring the frontcourt will be Janell Crayton ’06. Crayton is only one of two seniors on this Wildcat squad, and
she will be called upon to be the emotional and physical leader on and off the court. Last year, she
averaged 6.5 ppg and had a team-high 22 blocks.

She will be joined on the inside by Brynn Kelly ’07, who contributed some strong play last season despite being
hampered by an injury. The depth on the interior will come from two highly-touted first-years in Mercedes Robinson ’09 and
Mandy Halbersleben ’09. While Robinson averaged a double-double in high school, Halbersleben was named as her school’s Athlete of the
Year.

“Robinson is a very smooth, athletic player while Halbersleben is a tough worker with a nice touch near the basket,”
said Watts.

Once again, the Davidson Wildcats will earn the pay early in the season as they have to take on ACC
powerhouses Wake Forest and North Carolina. The Tar Heels come into this season ranked seventh in the national AP poll.
In the Southern Conference, Chattanooga will continue to be dominant, while the rest of the teams will slug it out
week by week for a chance at a high seed in the Conference tournament. Davidson ranked third in the preseason
Media Poll behind Chattanooga and Georgia Southern.

In their first exhibition game of the season, the Wildcats finished with a 78-44 advantage over Belmont Abbey. Every player
recorded at least a point, and four Wildcats scored in double figures. Crayton and Gassie both tallied 11 while Kelly
and Washington notched 10 points each to lead the way.

The Wildcats looked solid throughout as they seemed to maintain a sizable lead in the first half that grew as
the second half wore on. Their defense held the Crusaders to a 38 percent shooting average from the field while
the Cats shot 47.1 percent. Davidson also outrebounded the Crusaders by a margin of 48-28 as Halbersleben pulled down a
game-high 10 rebounds.

The Wildcats certainly have all of the pieces of the puzzle to successfully challenge the teams in the Southern Conference.
In a league where every game is a fight to the finish, Watts hopes that her team will come to
play and “Take the next step.”

---

Jim Fuller

B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School

Best Lawyers in America ‘84—'05

THE
FULLER
LAW FIRM
We Are Proud To Be Your Neighborhood Law Firm

Concentrating in Personal Injury

83-85; 88-97
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president
Town of Davidson Commercial and

Former Judge NC Court of Appeals North End Corridor Plan ‘05
Adjunct professor of trial advocacy Mecklenburg County Real Estate

Duke Law School Executive Council ‘03 to present.

UNC Law School

Other Areas of Practice

Appeals, Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning,
Family Law, Litigation, Real Estate, Wills & Trusts

In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. University of Richmond

Commissioner for the Town of Davidson

---

Jessica Mitchell ’07 had seven points and seven assists in a 78-44 exhibition win over Belmont Abbey.
