DAVIDSON COLLEGE

The Davidsonian

@ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 2005

VOLUME 96, NUMBER 24

Commons, F among summer renovations

By EMILY KOTA
Senior Staff Writer

Students can look forward to a spruced-up campus when they return next fall. This summer’s major renovation projects include Richardson Stadium, Vail Commons, and Martin Court F.

Richardson Stadium construction has already begun and is scheduled to be completed before the fall semester begins.

The bleachers are being extended so that the middle of the bleachers is at the 50-yard line. Underneath the newly constructed bleacher addition, students will find a new weight training facility and space for visiting teams.

Soccer player Heidi Wilbrandt ’07 said, “the addition to the stadium will be extremely beneficial to all sports teams, because it gives us an actual weight room, as opposed to the racquetball courts we use now. Hopefully with the new additions, we will be able to house more fans for all athletic events.”

The renovation of Vail Commons is slated to begin at the start of graduation weekend. Plant Facilities Director David Holthouser said, “While you’re lined up for graduation, we’ll be in there moving them out.”

Holthouser described the project as an “88-day wonder.”

The principal change for Vail Commons involves the delivery process for food. The facility is shifting from a cafeteria line with separate servers and cooks to a

See Summer, page 5

By next year, Vail Commons will have changed its serving system from a closed cafeteria line to an open “scatter court.”

Adherence to FERPA laws results in less disclosure

By KATE GILLESPIE
Senior Staff Writer

As a result of a change in the Davidson Campus Police’s enforcement of federal and state law regarding the release of public records, police reports on criminal acts on campus will no longer be available to the general public, including reporters for The Davidsonian.

Concerns about privacy and the protection of victims of campus crime were the main reasons for the change.

“We are a very small community and have a responsibility to each other,” said Chief of Campus Police Fountain Walker. “This department’s [responsibility] is your safety along with adhering to federal, state, and institutional requirements when it comes to protecting an individual’s privacy and keeping our community informed.”

As a result of the change, the Campus Police Blotter, which appears weekly in The Davidsonian, will no longer be published.

See Police, page 2

Athena Stevens ’06 wrote and directed ‘The Thirst,’ a play that explored issues of disability, last weekend. See story, page 6

$22M necessary for full ADA compliance

By LESLIE HEMPSON
Senior Staff Writer

An independent consulting firm determined that the college would have to make $22 million worth of repairs to fully comply with “accessibility building code” guidelines in the Americans with Disabilities Act and state and local law.

During the 2004 audit, representatives of A/C/E — Support Engineering in Raleigh examined every “space” on campus to determine whether it was physically accessible to all individuals, including the disabled.

After eight months of inspection, the firm provided Davidson with 16 notebooks worth of recommendations.

According to Director of Physical Plant David Holthouser and Associate Dean of Student Life Kathy Bray-Merrell, the audit was done at the school’s “initiative.”

The college is now sorting through the recommendations so that it can begin to establish priorities for future projects.

The recent Chambers renovations, which cost $20 million, included the installation of additional elevators and ramps and increasing doorway width.

Athena Stevens ’06, co-founder of C.R.I.P., a student organization that was started in January to provide a louder voice for students with disabilities, said this was not enough.

She said, “With $22 million

See ADA, page 4

Email surveys may reduce effectiveness

By BEN WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

Mass-email surveys have grown increasingly common. The surveys come from multiple sources including sociology theses, student government, class projects, and Auxiliary Service questionnaires. The large number of surveys has annoyed some students and possibly reduced responsiveness, and thus effectiveness.

“Three years ago nobody mentioned email surveys as a problem,” said Associate Professor of Political Science Pat Sellers. “Now I increasingly hear complaints from students about all the surveys in their inboxes.”

“It’s a real resource, but it can be overused,” he added.

As part of his “Public Opinion” course, Sellers and his students conduct an annual political survey. The percentage of the student body to respond to the survey peaked at 59 percent in 2003 but dropped to 51 percent in 2004.

Sellers said he believes the numbers are too speculative to represent a definite trend, yet he does caution that a low response rate produces inaccurate results.

“There is lots of evidence that declining response rates produce biased results,” said Sellers. “The people who answer the survey become less representative of the overall

See Survey, page 5

Avid Snappler wins car

Laura Broom’s craving for Plum-A-Granate Diet Snapple could not have been more profitable.

Broom’s $1.15 beverage purchase at the Union Cafe won her a 2005 Volkswagen New Beetle convertible as part of Diet Snapple’s “Pick a Bottle & Hit the Throttle” under-the-cap game.

Broom is the first and only winner to date of this promotion, which runs through April 30.

When her friend, who first noticed the winning bottle cap, told her the news, Broom was in shock.

“He showed me the bottle cap that said ‘YOU WON,’ and it still didn’t seem real,” she said. “I felt like there must be some kind of catch.”

When Broom sent in the winning bottle cap, her prize was confirmed. She will soon receive a Beetle GL convertible with a 2-liter engine and all automatic with standard equipment.

--Liz Barry, News Editor

Broom ’07 and her winning Snapple

YOWL: A guide to classroom behavior

SEE PAGE 8

Student to release ‘shocking’ album

see A&L, PAGE 7

Preview of next year’s Davidson athletics

see SPORTS, PAGE 17