(mediocre — SEEPAGE2 | Form Second semester senior leaving his mark on Davidson women See Page 8 Room smell blamed
on | Paul | made roommate See Page 5 | Freshman girl begins studying for finals See Page 9 Baseball
roster checked Campus Voices Mary WALTERS CLASS OF 2007 I cannot believe that sophomore year is almost over. I mean,
after this year, I’m going to be halfway done with my Davidson career. It sure shows me that Dave Matthews
knows what he’s talking about when he says, “Life is short but sweet for certain.” Plus, next year, so many
people are going to be abroad, that we’re only going to have like two more semesters together as a class,
or as I like to think of it, as brothers and sisters. But, I don’t want to think about that
because I love this place so much! THEYOWL Your Davidsonian Honor Section Whatever: Nathan Bradshaw Editor: Brendan Parets Students with
story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editor at brparets@davidson.edu Note: If you haven’t been living in a
cave for the past year, then you should know that the Yowl is a satirical supplement to the Davidsonian. Hence,
nothing in it should be taken as truth. THE DAVIDSONIAN gives me such to convey in SEE PAGE 10 WEDNESDAY,
APRIL 6, 2005 DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER Whatever, I don’t care anymore Vail » Day” at Commons. Head of Dining Services
Ingland made the announcement on Tuesday. “It gives me great pleasure to give back to the students in the form
of the first of what I hope are many ‘All You Can Eat Days.’” He continued, “It is hard for
me to convey in words just how very excited I am for this day. I will personally be supervising everything
to make sure that it runs as smoothly as possible. I do understand that Dining That reminds me of the
tour I was giving last week, when somebody asked me what I liked least about Davidson. “Hmmmm,” I said, “that’s
a hard question, because I just love every single thing about Davidson College.” Then, I gave my punch line: “So,
I guess the worst thing about Davidson is that it’s not 10 years!” I got a big laugh from my
tour group. I just hope that everyone in the group could see just how much I love Davidson. That’s why
I always have prospectives stay with me, so I can try to get them to come to Davidson, because it’s
the best place on Earth! I just don’t understand why anyone would ever go abroad! Even if you go only
for a semester, you still miss one-eighth of your Davidson experience. Think of all the memories and all the great
times with your friends that you're going to miss! Personally, I spend as much time at Davidson as I possibly
can. That’s why I do Orientation Team, and after vacations, I always come back at least one day early. Is
it weird to miss Davidson during school vacations? I sure hope not! Seriously, they should make summer vacation optional. If
they gave a choice for a summer semester, I would definitely do it! Another thing that I don’t understand is
why everyone doesn’t go to all the athletic events. Everyone should go support the Wildcats! I certainly always do, and
you can see me at every sporting event, even field hockey games, wearing my Wildcat red proudly. I was the
first person on the bus to the NIT game in Maryland, and that was eight hours away! So, nobody has
any excuses for not going to home games. Personally, I think that they should close the library whenever there’s a
home game. Then again, I don’t want to give the impression that I don’t care about academics. They’re definitely my
number one priority! And, that’s another reason why I love Davidson so much, because of the great education that I
get here. We definitely get a better education here than at any of the Ivy League schools, and to tell
you the truth, we work harder too! I bet that Davidson students are even smarter than students at Ivy League
schools. One of my friends told me that my Davidson grades are equivalent to much higher grades at Harvard, and
I sure believe her! It doesn’t bother me “They really should make summer vacation optional!” though, because graduate schools know
how hard Davidson is and they even add a couple of points to our GPAs. Davidson really has done so
much for me, that I just want to give something back. That’s why I do so much here like Habitat
for Humanity, Cat Pack, SGA senator, and tour guide. Plus, next year, I’m going to be a hall counselor. I’m
so excited to show all the first year students just how great Davidson is! I hope that I help them
get comfortable at Davidson quickly. I’m going to do hall programs every single week! I already have a great theme
for my hall: Disney characters. How cute is that?! I'll tell you what, we're definitely going to win the Freshmen
Olympics, that’s for sure! I’ve also already written the speech that I’m going to giveto my hall on the first
day of orientation during our hall meeting. The first thing I’m going to tell everyone is to make sure that
they smile all the time! We're at “Camp Davidson” so everyone better be happy! Then, I’m going to give them
some “inside” advice, and tell them that they can talk to me about anything. Finally, I’m going to leave them
with some wisdom that I’ve picked up during my time here: college is the best time of your life, so
treasure every moment!

This announcement follows a string of special events at Vail Commons, including a chicken wing eating contest, a “Make-Your-Own-Holiday-Cookie Extravaganza,”
“Taste of Thai” night, “Country Western” night, Karaoke lunch, and the hugely successful “Commons Mix It Up Week.” Said Dr.
Kathleen Wilson, professor of Sociology and Dining Services observer, “It’s pretty obvious what Dining Services is trying to do. They
want to distract the students from the major problems in Vail Commons by offering these special events. I won't be
surprised if once again, students flock to Commons for this one. It even rivals the always popular ‘Voice Your Choice’
luncheon where Dining Services tries to conceal their objectives with a disc jockey, giveaways, and party-like atmosphere.”

Still, many students seem to be extremely excited for the “All You Can Eat Day.” Said Peter Walton ’07, “I
am going to be one of the first ones in line. I don’t think I’m going to eat all day,
just so I can save room for dinner and eat as much delicious Vail Commons food as I possibly can.
I’m definitely going to hit up the sandwich bar too and definitely get my fill of soft serve ice cream,
all for one low price!” Students will be required to pay for each meal upon entering Commons. The cost may
be paid for using a meal plan, deducted from declining balance, or in cash. “Bonus Bucks” will not be accepted.
The price covers unlimited servings from the hot food lines, drinks, and desserts.

“All You Can Eat Day” will begin at 7:30 that morning where breakfast will be served buffet style until 10
a.m. At 11:00 a.m., lunch will be served on two lines; pizza, quesadilla, and sandwich bars will also be open
for students’ orders. Lunch will end at 1:45 p.m., and Commons will remain closed until dinner begins at 5:00 p.m.
Dinner will end at 7:15 that evening. The menu for the “All You Can Eat Day” has not yet been
released by Dining Services.

Davidson heavy metal scene loses its steam

Turn on VH1 on a Saturday morning and you'll find the last remnants of the once flourishing genre of music
known as heavy metal. While the television show Metal Mania still manages to rock out “until we die,” Davidson metal-heads
are realizing that the glory days are over. Since the mid-1980s heyday of heavy metal, there has been a fairly
evident decrease in the fan base of the musical genre. Says self-proclaimed metal-head David Beckenstein ’05, “Sure, everyone knows that
one guy who wears his hair long and dresses in black, but it’s pretty obvious that metal has no home
at Davidson anymore. It’s even apparent all over the nation. Metal Mania keeps playing these wussy bands like Winger and
Krokus, and the one heavy metal show on WALT even played some Metallica from their ‘Load’ CD.”

Other evidence of the fall of metal lies at the local Goodwill, where employees have noticed a sharp increase in
donations of metal-themed T-shirts, such as a skeleton holding a decapitated Satan or a skull vomiting out the name of
a band in blood. Matt Krandle ’06 still has high hopes of starting a metal band. “I got a bass
for Christmas and I’ve been taking lessons, but the only thing these posers want to play is Dave Matthews or
Jack Johnson. I’m thinking about putting an ad in The Crier: ‘Bassist seeking hard rocking partiers who don’t know when
to quit. Influences: Judas Priest, Sepultura, and the Scorpions. No drugs.’”

Other signs of the decline in Heavy Metal acceptance on the Davidson campus are visible from professors. Mathematics major Graham
“The Grim” Roper ’06 was recently confronted in class about his attire. “I was wearing a shirt I bought at
a concert featuring Primordial and God Dethroned,” he said. “It had a bloody pen and the words ‘Innocent blood is
on all of your hands.’ My professor called me out on it, claiming it was inappropriate for class. I mean,
what is this? Are we still in high school, man?”

Still, some Davidson students warn against writing off metal too soon. Hopefuls maintain that metal will once again rule the
music world and make a comeback on campus. As Krandle claimed, “Look at Iron Maiden. Everybody thought they’d suck when
Paul Di’anno left the band, but then Bruce Dickinson came in and blew everyone away. ‘Number of the Beast’ must
be the greatest album ever. It rules with an iron fist.” He continued, “And now, with Kappa Sig returning to
campus, it’s only a matter of time before the sweet sounds of hardcore heavy metal guitar riffs are once again
widely heard while walking around Davidson campus.”
