4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Freshmen, continued from page 1
last evening of Orientation.

Following a speech by Registrar and
Professor of German and Humanities
Hansford Epes, first years pledged their
commitment to the Honor Code by signing
their names to it.

“There are common threads
among students, hallmarks of the
Davidson experience. Davidson is
centered on relationships, and
there are no labels here. You are
known for who you are, not
defined by what you do.”
--Chris Gruber,
Acting Dean of Admission
and Financial Aid

“The Honor Code is a cornerstone of life
at Davidson, and it is important that they
understand this. Dr. Epes’ speech is one of
the best speeches given,” said Bray-Merrell.

Another Davidson tradition, the optional
1.6 miles Cake Race through the campus and
town, was held last week.

Many members of the Davidson commu-
nity baked cakes for the top finishers in the
race.

This year’s women’s winner was Caroline
Sanker ’09, and the men’s winner was Lance
Harden ’09.

“It is such a cool thing to get a cake for a
prize and a big motivator to run fast. I think
the cake race is an excellent idea for fresh-
men and it is such a great event for all the
active students at Davidson. It was so special
to see all of the community involvement in
making such delicious cakes!” Sanker said.

Many of the hall counselors have been
impressed with the enthusiasm of the new
students.

“We had a pizza mixer on the lawn,” said
Cal Nannes ’07, a hall counselor on Second
Belk. “I expected it to only last half an hour,
but we had to drag them away for flickerball
practice. They really seemed to hit it off.”

The administration shares the sentiment.

“I am very excited about this class,” Bray-
Merrell said. “Despite the rain and heat, they
were attentive, engaged, enthusiastic, and
showed excitement. While Orientation was
exhausting, they were very open, introducing
themselves to each other and quickly making
friends.”

Gruber is confident that this group of stu-
dents “will represent Davidson well in years
to come,” based on their enthusiasm and
behavior during the Orientation activities.

“There are common threads among stu-
dents, hallmarks of the Davidson experience.
Davidson is centered on relationships, and
there are no labels here. You are known for
who you are, not defined by what you do,”
Gruber said.

Photo

Above: President Vagt and choir members teach first years the Alma Mater.
Below: Associate Professor of Mathematics Robert Whitton meets with his book discus-
sion group at the beginning of Orientation.

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31, 2005

Top: First year girls run across the football field during the traditional cake race. The
winners of the race are awarded cakes that have been made by community members.
Above: Drew Carey ’06 and Anders Wells ’08 were two members of the Orientation
Team, the group of upperclassmen who helped the first years during Orientation.

Left: First-years attended one of Davidson’s most important ceremonies, the Honor Code
signing, on the last night of Orientation.

Below: The girls of third Belk show their spirit during the Freshmen Olympics.