. ARTS LIVING THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY March 23, 2005 Hamm(er)ing it up at Davidson: RSC set design By Ty WHITE
Staff Writer Imagine bringing your wildest dreams to life on stage, with one constraint: you have to share the stage
on a daily basis with another person’s wildest dreams. Fiona Buffini, director of the Royal Shakespeare Company’s current touring production
of “The Two Gentlemen of Verona,” acknowledged that the first thing she considered in designing a set was that her
production would be sharing a stage with David Farr’s “Julius Caesar.” “We knew we would be sharing the stage from
the word go,” Buffini said at a Theatre Department workshop earlier this month. What this sharing entails is the directors
working together to choose an acceptable color and medium for the floor, then creating easily-constructed and deconstructed sets for their
own productions. In this case, everything came together flawlessly. The two directors agreed to a polished concrete floor, then created
the rest of the set around it. The second difficulty came when they discovered that not all of their productions
on tour (their Davidson College stop, specifically) utilized the thrust stage they were used to, where the audience is seated
on three sides of the actors. Without being able to see the productions on a thrust stage, one would have
thought that the productions were designed specifically for a proscenium theatre like the Duke Family Performance Hall. The sets themselves
were things of beauty. While both were relatively simple, with straight lines and only minor changes between scenes, both were
used effectively to bring the audience into the world of the play. The set for “The Two Gentlemen of Verona”
was particularly striking, with its minimalist design and clever use of space.

“Caesar” characters too unstable By David KERNS Staff Writer As the lights go down, there is barely time to get
to your seats before the stage erupts with action. Immediately, we are transported to a strange revolutionary world: cold, dark,
and foreboding, made up of a motley group of ruffians ruled under a single iron fist, in a quasi-Cold War
environment. This progressive interpretation of Shakespeare’s “Julius Caesar” cast off the robes of the traditional Roman setting and instead adopted
a modern alternative dress and environment. Although this version is visually stimulating and offers new insights into the meaning of
the dialogue, some of the power of the original text lost its strength with such a progressive adaptation. As we
meet the principal characters, we find out the makeup of the balance of power within this empirical regime: Caesar has
dictatorial rule over the land, while Brutus’ and Cassius’ envy of Caesar’s power continuously grows. Throughout the play, the audience
views a full spectrum of emotion, namely from Brutus and Caesar. In any given scene, both might be at the
verge of tears one minute, close to fighting the following minute, and completely content the next. I felt that although
this heightened the emotional experience of the play, it was somewhat inappropriate considering the nature of these characters. These are
men of position and power; they make daily decisions that decide the future of entire nations, and yet they may
welcome tears at the drop of a hat? When I first read the play, I felt that these characters have
to be much stronger and more stolid than normal men. It is only through this heightened strength that Brutus is
able to boldly kill his beloved mentor and honorably take his own life when circumstances call for it. Modern costumes
in ‘Julius Caesar’ distracted from the play’s original content.him to do so. This interpretation also has a heightened sense of
conspiracy and corruption. It seemed to me that, even though this went along with the neo-Cold War atmosphere, it subtracted
from the sense of honor that was so integral in the original text. Even Mark Antony, after giving his passionate
and memorable eulogy over Caesar’s body, seems to rescind on his allegiance to his dead friend, lowering his tone, shredding
Caesar’s will, and taking immediate control of the army. In the traditional version of the play, Mark Antony would never
conspire against Caesar: Caesar was like a father to Mark Antony, and the sole motivation for a war against Brutus
and Cassius is to seek justice for Caesar’s brutal murder. Similarly, Brutus’ betrayal of Caesar was downplayed because the intensity
of their initial relationship was never established at the outset of the play. Traditionally, this is a play about power,
honor, loyalty, and betrayal, but some of these themes didn’t receive as much attention within this adaptation. All in all,
it was a good play filled with interesting character and setting decisions. The company used intense lighting, staging, and camera
techniques to dramatize the more biting scenes of the play. The ending, possibly my favorite scene, reinforced the dictatorial theme:
in almost an Animal Farm-type manner, they depicted the formation of a new regime, no different from Caesar’s absolute rule.

"Verona" featured three vertical panels in the back of the set which opened and closed as the scene dictated. When
open, the scene was often that of a party in the Duke of Milan’s palace. The tops of the panels
were illuminated to give the effect of candelabras as the guests streamed in and out or danced the Lindy Hop.
Another back panel opened late in the play as Sylvia was locked in a tower by her father. The versatility
of the set combined with the costumes allowed Fiona Buffini to give the audience the true feel of being in
the 1920s. Far from the glamour of the 1920s stands the industrial set of “Julius Caesar.” As swords turn to
semi-automatics, so too is ancient Rome turned to the late twentieth century. The set itself consists of an industrial jungle-gym,
upon which are hung banners and sheets to transform the stage between scenes. The production relies heavily on multimedia and
technical effects and is not afraid to show it. In a Brechtian move to make the audience aware that they
are watching a play, not real life, the soundboard is clearly visible to the audience through the jungle-gym, and the
actors double as stagehands, providing hand-held lighting for nearly half the scenes. If not done carefully, exposing so much of
the technical aspects of the production could detract from the acting. Yet Farr successfully used the exposure to his advantage.
Farr challenges the audience to see more in the play than the simple formula of a Shakespearean tragedy. He lets
them see through the props and scenery and theatricality to the exposed souls of the characters.

GRILLED CHEESE
Since 1951

VEGETARIAN?

VEGGIE MELT - VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD - VEGETABLE SOUP
Platters, Soups, and Orange Juice
HOMEMADE ORANGEADE, LEMONADE, AND LIMEADE

Bet you didn't think of us for vegetarian fare!
Tisola Shop
St. Davison WC.
Eat In - Take-out
896-7743
Sat-Thur 8-8 Fri 8-9
