. ARTS ; 4 THE DAVIDSONIAN Soe WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2005

Spring has sprung in Davidson

By Katie HUNTER
Staff Writer

The weather is warm, the skirts and shorts are out, and the Lake Campus is bustling once again. Davidson has
officially caught Spring Fever, and it seems to be spreading faster than last winter’s flu epidemic. The season promises to
be exciting and eventful, at least until finals pervade campus life in a few short weeks. So, what are students
doing to take advantage of this temporary freedom?

The first step seems to be “avoid academic work when at all possible,” which is a motto that many students
have adopted. Who can concentrate when the sun is out and the frisbees are flying? Some students attempt to do
work on Chambers’ lawn, but many, like Martha Blakey ’08, find it effective only for sunbathing. “I bring books out
there with me, but I never actually get any work done,” she admits.

Some individuals on campus patiently wait until Friday to have “fun in the sun,” which they can do, weather permitting,
at April at the Lake. This SGA-sponsored event, which features a free cookout and live music, takes place on Friday
afternoons during the month of April at Davidson’s own Lake Campus. A little oasis on Lake Norman, the Lake Campus
features sandy shores and grassy knolls, perfect for rest and relaxation. Students who prefer to get a little more wet
and wild are welcome to reserve a ski-boat and driver through the Lake Campus office, or to rent out small
sailboats, canoes, kayaks, and pedal boats free of charge.

For those interested in honing their off-shore skills, “we teach sailing and canoeing PE classes on Saturday mornings and Sunday
afternoons up until the first weekend in May,” said Lake Campus Director Sterling Martin. Water-skiing classes are also taught from
Monday through Thursday from 2:30 to 4:30 p.m., which Martin says that students must first sign up for through the
PE department. For people that want extra practice, the waterskiing club also provides boat drivers to pull wakeboarders and water-skiers
most afternoons.

Bibiana Arayomi ’08 enjoys her first spring at Davidson with an outdoor break. The club is out in full force
once again for the spring season. Club members practice most afternoons from 4 to around 6 or 7 p.m., with
the more experienced water enthusiasts practicing on Fridays. Though a novice might get intimidated by some of these advanced slalom
skiers and wakeboarders, captain Beka Steorts ’05 maintains that “experience level doesn’t really matter, and anyone can join the club,
provided they pay dues.”

But one doesn’t have to go off campus to get the best of spring. Spring Frolics on Patterson Court is
a mere two and a half weeks away and promises to be the perfect release for pre-exam anxiety and springtime
folly. The Frolics feature daytime carnival games and a “jousting arena,” sure to appeal to the child in everyone. The
highlight of the weekend is an outdoor foam dance party, which takes place on the grassy hill behind Vail Commons.

The Duke Family Performance Hall will likely feature a different kind of dancing this upcoming weekend, as members of Davidson’s
Dance Ensemble take center stage. This semester’s Dance Ensemble performance promises to thrill, as it will feature styles from tap
to reggae to ballet to salsa. Dress rehearsals and extended practices take place this week to ensure that each dance
member is well prepared for show time. The Dance Ensemble will hold three performances instead of the two this semester,
which will include a Sunday afternoon show at 3 p.m.

Dance choreographer Sarah Rice ’08 claims this year’s spring ensemble should be a hit, since “everybody has been working really
hard, since there are a lot of dance moves to remember, especially if you are in multiple dances.” Rice believes
that “this semester’s performance will be as awesome as last semester’s show,” and hopes that everyone is looking forward to
it.

Whether or not one chooses to work on their dance moves, waterskiing skills, or just tanning techniques, springtime at Davidson
promises something for everyone. So, before planning next semester’s class schedule, take a break and enjoy a little of what
the college has to offer.

Ensemble presents vibrant spring performance

By SARA SAMS
Arts & Living Editor

It’s Tuesday night, and the lights are dimming in Duke Performance Hall. The place is brimming with dancers; limbs are
flailing in different groups of coordination throughout the house: this is their “stumble-through,” but the energy is palpable. The sheer
number of dancers in the audience, this being their only night allowed to wait their turn on this side of
the show, is astounding. There are more than 150 students working together to coordinate the show, which premieres 27 dances
this Friday evening. What begins with a soft glow erupts into a tapping thunder; the rhythm is not perfect,but it
is coming alive. I can already hear the student audience roaring as they do at these things. The near silence
seems odd to me, but then the first two dancers finish a phrase and there it is—hooting encouragement. Only tonight,
this encouragement is coming from the other dancers whose voices will later be hushed backstage. There is a sense of
dancer camaraderie (none of that stereotypical ballet school gossip to be heard). In the dark again, I don’t know what
to expect. That, I think, is what makes Dance Ensemble performances exciting. Anything might happen, any loud burst of music
might fill the air—or it might be a soft trickle of flute and a demonstration of our school’s finest ballerinas.
They keep us guessing. And what comes next is a shift of mood, of energy, of feeling. I am having
fun, maybe because it seems that they are, or because the music makes you shake a little in your seat.
I’m not sure the exact reason, but I’m smiling. And in the pause they take to discuss their movements, their
spacing, and other such technical going-ons that I can’t gather from the back row of Duke, I am anxious for
the show to begin again; there is an anticipation of what will be next. In this interim, there is a
sea of strobe lighting, tie-wearing/monkey-scrambling males and legging-donning/giggling females, all waiting to shake what their mothers gave them. I feel
privileged to witness the dance in its infancy. It is young, and imperfect—and while the music and lighting is configured
there are down times with confused bodies on stage (once, in the darkness, there was a loud thud)—but it is
already a strong baby. Did I mention that I, solitary in a back row, am having fun? I am usually
in attendance of DE performances with at least one head-bopping friend to accompany my urge to shake what my mother
gave me. Dance Ensemble offers, however, more than fun, head-bopping tunes that make you wiggle in your seat. It also
has a dramatic element. Clever lighting and sound designs, as well as tedious choreographing efforts, create a different world on
stage than the one that exists outside the performance hall. When heavy technical pauses that are inevitable in practice run-throughs
occur, I pick up another window on my Mac (a looming paper deadline forces me). For a moment I’m disoriented.
What? Work? But it seems to me I was just in a far-off place, I think. It is for that
reason, if no other, that so many students come to these performances (or sit in their rooms, working, and wishing
that they had). Dance Ensemble provides relief from the frantic world that is Davidson in the spring. And a little
relief is healthy, once and a while, folks. A few moments later, I am transformed into a far-off land—the beauty
of Dance Ensemble’s variety—India. The only regret I have is that I am not in that land with them, that
it is only flashing before me. The splash of color dissipates into another song, a change in mood that I’ve
come to expect. The amount of work students put into the effort pays off, though Dance Ensemble never claims their
collaboration to be perfection; it aims at artistic expression at all skill levels. There are a good many things that
should bring you back to their spring performance: the variety of the dances, the excitement thus involved in the short
breaths between them, the vibrancy the dancers display, the viewing of the imaginative creations of our peers, and, of course,
the fun escape the creations provide from work. I leave you with the strong advice to attend, while I sit
back and enjoy what I’m sure will be an interesting scene (“Bohemian Rhapsody” is on deck).

PHI BETA KAPPA

ANDERSON, Alison Marie
ARMSTRONG, Matthew Allen
BARBER, Ashley Elizabeth
BARNADO, April Lynn
BAXTER, Sarah McGee
BEHIZADEH, Rebecca
BOUTS, Stephanie
BROWN, Ashley Elizabeth
BULLOCK, Emily Jane
CAMPBELL, Elizabeth Grace
CHEMOTTI, Frank Alexander
COBAIN, Erin Frances
DAVIS, Sarah Nicole
DEAN, Erika Lynnette
FILOSA, Laura Julia
FOSTER, Catherine Elizabeth
GERSTENMIER, Adam Charles
GREEN, Amanda Sophie
GREGORY, Virginia Anne
HALLETT, Christopher James
HAPGOOD, Charles Russell
HAUPT, Andrew Michael
HESTER, Joy Michelle
HESTON, Anderson Patrick
HIBBETT, Laurie Ruth
HOEKSTRA, Jennifer Ann
JONES, Sian Baldwin
LLOYD, Travis Grainger
LOOP, Emily Jane

Elected to Membership-in-Course, 09 February 2005

RIPPER, Susan Jane
LUGO, Emily Louise
LYLE, Megan Ashley
MAH, Nicole Alyssa
MARYNAK, Kristy Lynne
McVANE, Katherine Melissa
NELSON, Benjamin Asher
PENNOCK, Amanda Marie
PERKINS, Jessica Mayson
QUINN, McLean Montgomery
ROPER, Ann Mitchell
SASANFAR, Jamie Leigh
SAXTON, Caroline Christopher
SCHAPIRO, Andrew Daniel
SETTERBERG, Collin Gary
STANHOPE, Sally Keirsey
STUTTS, Lauren Ashley
TACHIE-MENSON, Jade
TISON, Liesl McTyre
TOMKO, Stuart Ramm
UPCHURCH, Mary Walton
VINSON, Marc Orion
WEIGAND, Brenda Marie
WELCH, Brynn Faye
WHELESS, Lee Emerson
WILNER, Allison Ashley
WINTER, Katherine Hardt
WOODS, Kimberly Dunbar
ZEH, Kathryn Linn
