2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Banners such as this one were displayed all over Davidson last spring in honor of Jo Anne Shackelford and her contributions to the community.

Grant established in memory of Jo Anne Shackelford
By KATIE PFIEFFER
Senior Staff Writer

The Office Support Staff (OSS) recently established the Jo Anne Shackelford Memorial Grant for students in memory of Jo Anne Shackelford, who passed away in April 2005 from lung cancer. Shackelford worked in the Admissions Office of the college, was a member of the OSS, and actively served the Davidson community. As an active member of her church and Davidson elementary schools, she served as a crossing guard each morning before coming to work for the college. Always willing to help family, friends, and her community, she remained a part of the Admissions Office even after she was diagnosed in October 2004 with lung cancer as a nonsmoker. She continued her commitment to service in the following months, giving hope to people and organizations in need of assistance and volunteering tirelessly to create a safe environment for youth.

Members of the OSS, whose annual dues will go towards this scholarship, decided earlier this year to establish the grant as a testimony to their relationship with Jo Anne, who periodically served on the social committee of the OSS during her 13 years working for the college. The grant for the 2005-2006 academic year consists of a $200 stipend to be directed towards a specific service-related endeavor. All applications for the grant should explain the proposed service project in detail, estimated costs, and suggest a time allotted for its completion.

The town of Davidson showed its support for Jo Anne throughout the past year by hanging up “We Love You, Jo Anne” sheets.

See Grant, page 4

Briefly

Chemistry Colloquium
Professor David R. Williams of Indiana University at Bloomington will speak on “The Synthesis of Biologically-Active Substances of Marine Origin” on September 23 at 2:30.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 2005

Committee looks to improve Vamanos Van safety, effectiveness
By KATIE PFEIFFER
Senior Staff Writer

The Student Government Association (SGA), Physical Plant, and members of the Davidson College administration are teaming up to improve the safety and overall effectiveness of the student-run Vamanos Van, which provides free local transportation for students. Director of Facilities and Engineering David Holthouser and SGA President Ryan Arnold ’06 have been cooperating with President Bobby Vagt and Vice President of Student Life and Dean of Students Thomas Shandley to maintain the Van’s primary goal of transportation of students while accommodating new financial demands and safety concerns. Arnold met with Holthouser and Associate Director of Business and Property Management Irvin Brawley over the summer to discuss potential changes and appreciated the consideration they, as well as Vagt and Shandley, took in seeking student input throughout the process.

“Although the Vamanos Van is a vital part of Davidson College, it has its problems. It is run by PCC, but everyone uses it. Between answering the phone and driving the Van, the job is too much for just one student.” --Serra Aygun ’06

“We are hoping to establish a long-term solution to a problem that arises almost every year,” Arnold said.

The SGA rents the Vamanos Van from the Davidson College motor pool for a daily rate in order to provide transportation services to students Thursday through Saturday, the cost of which was about $2600 last year. Fluctuating gas prices, paired with its yearly cost in gas of close to $3000, and frequent mechanical problems have begun to make the vehicle itself more a financial burden than a reliable shuttle service. Purchased in 1998, the vehicle’s normal running time of seven years...has made it critical that a new van be purchased soon. While no new van has yet been chosen, several factors, such as the size of the vehicle, will be taken into consideration when choosing the new vehicle. The current size of the Vamanos Van continually proves to be a safety hazard for student drivers who often have little experience driving a large vehicle. Though it is suspected that the Van’s 12-person capacity sometimes falls short of transportation needs, larger vans are too expensive to insure and require a commercial driver’s license to operate. The Van’s evolution into an on-call shuttle service providing transportation from Exit 25 to Exit 36 also amplifies the concern about safety on more dangerous roads outside campus.

The shortage of licensed and willing student drivers has also become a constant issue. Members of Patterson Court are responsible for finding drivers every week, but the probability of recycling the same drivers each weekend without an offer of compensation is slim. “Although the Vamanos Van is a vital part of Davidson College, it has its problems,” Serra Aygun ’06 said. “It is run by PCC [Patterson Court Council], but everyone uses it. Between answering the phone and driving the Van, the job is too much for just one student.” Because of the lack of drivers, the Vamanos Van sometimes has to suspend its services, which causes problems for some students. “It would be nice to have a system where the Vamanos Van runs more consistently,” said Lindsay Ruderman ’06.

Hiring regular drivers, either from a non-college affiliated service or as part of a Davidson work-study program, has been suggested in order to eliminate the need for van certification training and ensure that the Van is indeed running each weekend. As of now, the Vamanos Van service will run as usual and despite these potential changes in operation, students will continue to determine routes and operating times as they do now. Holthouser emphasized that the success is attributed to its close association with Davidson students as both drivers and passengers. “It was student-originated, is student-run, and should continue to be that way,” he said.

Refreshments will be provided at 2 p.m. in Martin lobby.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

9/12 Concord Road Property Damage
Officer responded to a personal property call. Victim advised that an unknown person(s) had thrown a beer bottle through the window of his camper shell. The victim’s vehicle was parked on the south side of Concord Road. Estimated damage is around $200.

9/12 Traffic Violation Concord and Main
Officer observed a Ford truck fail to yield for a pedestrian in the crosswalk at Main and Concord. Officer stopped the vehicle; subsequently the driver was issued a citation for failing to yield to a pedestrian in a crosswalk.

9/14 Sentelle Dormitory Trespassing
Reporting person advised officers of two subjects with tattoos and body piercing attempting to sell magazines on second Sentelle. Officer located the subjects in the dormitory. Both were escorted to the Campus Police Department, advised that soliciting is not allowed on college property, and informed that they had trespassed. Neither subject had any affiliation with Davidson College.

9/18 Chambers Building Suspicious Person
Officer responded to a suspicious person call near Chambers building. Reporting person advised an unknown white male around 30 years of age was walking around the building. Officer was unable to locate this subject.