16 SPORTS THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 2006

Women lose to Furman in SoCon Championship
By Erik SWANSON
Staff Writer

After six months of play dating back to the beginning of the fall semester, last weekend’s Southern Conference tournament in Charleston marked the men’s and women’s tennis teams’ opportunity to advance beyond the conference level and into the NCAA tournament. The men entered the tournament with a 9-11 overall record and the eighth seed, while the women embarked with a 16-8 record and the number two seed. Both teams, however, brought their best tennis to the tournament, only losing to the number one seeds.

The men began the tournament with a Thursday matchup against Georgia Southern, the ninth seed. The Wildcats began slowly in the doubles portion of the match, before picking up their level of play and earning victories at positions one and two. Flaviu Simihaian ’08 and Ethan Jaffee ’09 rolled to an 8-3 victory at the top doubles match, and co-captain Joe Cheaney ’06 and Phillip Compeau ’08 earned a hard-fought 8-6 win at number two to clinch the doubles point.

“We played extremely well in the doubles after that slow start,” said assistant coach Scott Briggs. “The doubles point was huge for us, as we gained the momentum and Georgia Southern seemed deflated entering the singles.” Jay Chitty ’07 won 6-1, 6-0 at the five slot, Jaffee won 6-2, 6-0 at number three and co-captain Daniel Bermeo ’06 clinched the win with a 6-1, 6-1 victory at number two.

“We played great in the singles,” said Briggs. “We came out playing our game and playing aggressively, and we never looked back.” The 4-0 win earned the ’Cats a rematch against top-seeded Elon on Friday. In doubles, the Wildcats took it down to the wire and made the Phoenix sweat out a narrow win. After losing at number three, Simihaian and Jaffee earned an 8-6 win at number one, leaving the doubles point on the shoulders of Cheaney and Compeau. They were unable to get the win, though, ultimately falling 8-5.

“Going into the singles, we still liked our chances,” said Briggs. “The singles matchups set up really well for us.” The singles matches were close all the way through the lineup, as Davidson managed to win the first set in two of the matches and played closely in the others. Elon managed to win the first three matches to be completed, though, winning at positions two, four and three to clinch the match.

“While it’s always disappointing to end the season with a loss, we were really proud of the effort we saw out there,” said Briggs. “We felt like our guys played their hearts out, saving their best tennis of the season for when it counted most.” Despite failing to advance further in the tournament, the Wildcats did manage to clinch yet another season with at least ten victories, the 34th consecutive time Davidson has done so under head coach Jeff Frank, who retires this season after 34 years at the helm. Frank finishes his career with a record of 541-319-1, the most career coaching wins in any sport in Davidson history.

As they have all season in Southern Conference action, the women’s team rolled to a routine 4-0 win against Georgia Southern, setting up a semifinal match against the College of Charleston on Saturday. The Charleston team that fell 6-1 to the ’Cats earlier this season again was overpowered, as Davidson won four of the five matches that were completed, clinching the 4-1 win. Kelsey Linville ’08 won her 11th straightMatch with a 6-2, 6-2 win at the top singles position. Also win- See Tennis, page 14

By WILL BRYAN

The women’s tennis team finished the season lost to Furman 4-1 in the SoCon finals.

Horton ’09 scored two goals and assisted on five more.

Senior Staff Writer

Throughout the entire season, the Wildcats didn’t let the individual accomplishments of their teammates get in the way of success.

Becky Horton ’09
Lacrosse
Hometown: Walnut Creek, Calif.
Major: Undeclared

With seven goals and two assists, Horton led her team in points in its last two games of the season. As a freshman, she finishes tied for fifth in points on the season with 30.

For the women’s lacrosse team, 2006 was a special year. In the past three seasons, the Wildcats had only put together nine victories and had gone winless in their conference. This year, Davidson sported a new schedule as an independent and was able to put together an impressive 9-7 record, including going 5-2 at home. Those nine wins tied a program record for most wins in a season.

Having lost a 16-5 match last week against Virginia Tech, Davidson came into this past weekend’s games with their focus intact. Taking on St. Mary’s in the Saturday matchup, the Wildcats knew that securing their ninth season win would not be easy, although it looked so in the first half. Davidson held a 7-2 advantage over the Gaels of St. Mary’s at halftime, thanks to the play of Emily Palmer ’08 and Eloise Grose ’06. Grose scored three times, while Palmer found the cage twice en route to Davidson’s halftime lead. However, St. Mary’s would not go quietly as the Gaels came back to tie the score at 10-10 with under 10 minutes to play. Emily Diefendorf ’08 and the Wildcats were not fazed, as she went on to score three consecutive goals, securing the game’s final margin of 13-10. The Davidson defense, spearheaded by Leslie Smith ’06 and her 10 saves, held the Gaels scoreless over the last 8:23 of the second half. Davidson depth through all four classes was seen throughout the match as Becky Horton led the team.

“We have all had some fantastic individual accomplishments,” said senior Eloise Grose, “but we have stuck together through everything. I think being able to go out and play every day for four years with five of your best friends is always going to lead to success.”

That special class of five friends was honored on Sunday before the Wildcats’ last season match against Longwood. Unfortunately, the match did not play out well for the home team. Longwood jumped out to a quick lead in the first period and led by five goals at halftime. Davidson was unable to draw any closer, losing 17-11. Horton, the first-year midfielder, continued her impressive weekend with five more goals in Sunday’s losing effort.

Despite the loss in their finale, the lacrosse team still put together an impressive resume of success. Their nine season wins tied the 1997 team for the most in one season. Grose finished her career with 91 goals, good for fourth-best all-time, while goalkeeper Smith finished her career with 371 saves, for third all-time.

“Playing lacrosse at Davidson was one of the best experiences of my life,” said Grose. “This season was so special because we worked hard and played for each other, and it obviously led to great results.”

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Eighth inning heroics lift baseball over Wake

The Wildcats drove home five runs in the eighth to defeat the 24th ranked Demon Deacons of Wake Forest 9-5 last Tuesday. Rob Wilson ’07 hit a double in the inning for two RBIs.