12 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2006

For you SPORTS fans...

TRUMBO’S PICKS OF THE WEEK

The second of four home games, the Princeton game should be a nice break.

Lawsuit against Davis resolved

I don’t hate lawyers. To be honest, I often consider joining their misunderstood ranks once my time at Davidson has
come to an end. But what I really can’t stand, what really angers me, are the greedy bloodsuckers who thrive
on trivial lawsuits that abuse the justice system. They’re the personal injury lawyers and ambulance chasers featured on the back
of telephone books and public transportation, the men and women who, for their bottom line, have caused doctors around the
country to start running to another state at the word “malpractice.” They make suing someone as easy as the drive-thru
at McDonald’s.

Case in point: the lawyer of Michael Axelrod, the fan accused by Knicks’ player Antonio Davis of harassing his wife
and cussing in front of the NBA star’s children during a game against the Bulls in the United Center in
Chicago. Yes, I know it’s all been resolved, and the Davises and Axelrod have decided to put the past behind
them with no repercussions on either side, other than Antonio’s ejection and subsequent five-game suspension. Who knows what would have
happened if the situation had been allowed to escalate, or if Axelrod’s father had not been a prominent political consultant—doing
some pretty obvious behind-the-scenes finessing? Would the Davises have issued a public apology to Axelrod, or donated however much money
to a charity organization against the abuse of women and children, as the ticked-off fan’s lawyer demanded prior to the
truce?

Davis never touched the fan, never punched or shoved him, never even issued verbal threats against his person. That’s classy.
I saw the same kind of thing happen at a movie theater once, and the husband of the woman who
was threatened chucked a bag of popcorn in the harasser’s face, then followed up with a right hook. Antonio simply
climbed into the stands and asked what was going on. I hope that Davis never apologizes for acting on an
instinct to protect his wife and that any charitable donations made are done in the name of charity alone and
not at the whim of a conniving attorney, who, although he says he is “satisfied” with the result of the
dispute, was certainly not the one to suggest peace as a viable solution. He probably insisted on retribution, knowing Davis
would be judged harshly if he didn’t cough up a million dollars for mistreated women and children. The lawyer gave
Axelrod his 15 minutes of fame and no doubt received some pretty fair compensation for his efforts.

Nobody should fault a guy who would risk the job he loves to stand up for the family he loves
even more. What everyone needs to ask him or herself is if he or she would act differently upon witnessing
a loved one being threatened. Davis reacted, not knowing all the facts, but you gotta do what you gotta do,
and he was working with the best information available—provided by his very own eyes. He’s unhappy about missing games, yes,
but I’m willing to bet he’d be even unhappier had he stood on the court watching a stranger seemingly attack
his wife.

By WILSON McCrory

Ex-Carolina

Sports Editor Emeritus

When the Tar Heels came to town to play the ’Cats in the Charlotte Coliseum during my freshman year two
years ago, I did a horrible thing. I pulled for Carolina with all my might. I bought a ticket in
the Davidson student section, but after three minutes I couldn’t stand the ceaseless banter of the student body and moved
to an open seat with my family, also Carolina fans, next to center court. I said I wanted it to
be a close, respectable game, but really, I just wanted UNC to blow Davidson out and move on to the
next opponent. I continued to be a big Carolina fan after that first November clash between the ’Cats and Heels,
but by last April, when Carolina won the National Championship, I was pretty sure my loyalties had shifted. As much
as I wanted to get excited about the triumph of the boys in blue, I was still more bummed about
Davidson’s fall in the SoCon semis a month earlier in Chattanooga.

When I saw that Davidson would be traveling to Chapel Hill this year to renew the intrastate match-up, though, I
knew that my knee-jerk reaction to the National Title victory would be tested. Like the girl that “you’re From the
Sideline

By Muneau

years, but the ’Cats will need to come to

woman who was threatened chucked a bag of popcorn in the harasser’s face, then followed up with a right hook.
Antonio simply climbed into the stands and asked what was going on. I hope that Davis never apologizes for acting
on an instinct to protect his wife and that any charitable donations made are done in the name of charity
alone and not at the whim of a conniving attorney, who, although he says he is “satisfied” with the result
of the dispute, was certainly not the one to suggest peace as a viable solution. He probably insisted on retribution,
knowing Davis would be judged harshly if he didn’t cough up a million dollars for mistreated women and children. The
lawyer gave Axelrod his 15 minutes of fame and no doubt received some pretty fair compensation for his efforts.

Nobody should fault a guy who would risk the job he loves to stand up for the family he loves
even more. What everyone needs to ask him or herself is if he or she would act differently upon witnessing
a loved one being threatened. Davis reacted, not knowing all the facts, but you gotta do what you gotta do,
and he was working with the best information available—provided by his very own eyes. He’s unhappy about missing games, yes,
but I’m willing to bet he’d be even unhappier had he stood on the court watching a stranger seemingly attack
his wife. In the video footageThat captured the moment, it sure looks like Kendra Davis was holding her own, maybe
was even more of an instigator than either fan involved. Later, she maintained that a fan grabbed her wrist and
swore in front of her children after Antonio was fouled on the court. While Davis sprang to the scene to
defend her, security swarmed in from all directions. After the game, the Knickerbocker forward issued a statement that the fan
who accosted his wife was drunk—Axelrod said the next day that he’d only had a glass of wine at dinner.

So who’s really to blame? Who knows. The most important issue here is the outcome. It would have been easy
for Axelrod to listen to the advice of his attorney and to stick to his guns until he got what
he wanted or went bankrupt from lawyer fees. It would have been easy for him to try and garner as
much media attention as he could and then write a book about the day an NBA player made him famous.
But he didn’t. I have to admit, I applaud the restraint it took to not demand a little of Davis’
$13 million a year. I guess it’s the same restraint it took for Davis not to punch Axelrod’s lights out
for getting up in his hot wife’s grill.

You never really know until you see her again and have to deal with the inevitable emotions that come with
that reunion. If there was ever going to be a year to make the definitive transition, though, this was it.
North Carolina returned none of its top seven scorers from last year’s championship squad, including my personal favorite and current
Charlotte Bobcat, Raymond Felton. In their places were five wide-eyed freshmen that I’d seen play only once before stepping into
the Dean Dome on January 3. On the other hand, Davidson returned a team that looked like one of the
school’s strongest in years and one that could at least challenge to beat Carolina for the second time in three
tries in Chapel Hill.

Unfortunately, logic only goes so far in these kinds of things, so I wasn’t quite sure what to expect as
the McCrory family—including 19-year-old Chris, currently a freshman at UNC, and two parents that share four Carolina degrees between them—made
the trek up I-85 towards Chapel Hill on gameday. My dad wore a red shirt under his sweater in a
show of sympathy, but the blue sweater on top more than indicated his loyalties on that January night. The question
was still me, dressed in nondescript green and khaki. Yes, I had to be “neutral” since I was getting a
free seat courtesy of the paper, but I wasn’t quite sure what my colors were anyway.

Marcus Ginyard of UNC started the scoring with a jumper for a quick 2-0 lead; and most of the 20,000-plus
in attendance rose to their feet to cheer for the freshman and the quick lead. Me? I kept my butt
in my seat, ticked that Davidson didn’t strike first. I knew that the only way the ’Cats had a chance
in this one was to make a strong run early and take the crowd and the Carolina freshmen out of
the game. Unfortunately, Davidson could build no such early momentum, as Carolina eventually left behind a lackluster offense to storm
ahead 34-12 and never look back.

As the Heels swarmed all over the Wildcats, to the glee of the Carolina faithful, though, a strange and powerful
thing happened to me—I started to hate Carolina. I hated the players that are treated like rock stars wherever they
go. I hated the fans that feel like basketball is a birthright for them and no one else. I hated
Roy Williams, the man who was still glaring and yelling at the referees as if it were a tied ballgame
with two minutes to play in the Final Four. Heck, I even hated that girly powder-blue color that makes up
half my wardrobe back home. I was truly proud to be rooting for Davidson.

By the second media timeout, I had left my press seat and jumped up into the stands, clad in my
Davidson Basketball T and red Davidson cap, to show what little support I could offer in the face of 20,000.
And for the first time, I was truly proud to be rooting for Davidson. No, Davidson was not going to
win this game, and it almost certainly will not beat Carolina for years to come as Roy Williams continues to
reload. While Davidson continues to fight for a berth in the NCAA Tournament, Carolina will be trying to win it.
But at least I can say, unequivocally, that Davidson is and will continue to be my team. Good riddance, Tar
Heels, and I’ll see you in Chapel Hill next year.
