THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2006 13

Wrestling wins three of four matches on the road
Wrestlers defeat Franklin & Marshall and George Mason after their first conference win in 21 years

By MIKE CHAPMAN
Staff Writer

Coming off their first league victory in 21 years, the wrestling team continued their winning streak this past Saturday with
victories over George Mason and host Franklin & Marshall.

Unfortunately for the ’Cats, Drexel snapped their five-match winning streak the following day, pulling off a 28-9 triumph while earning
their school-record 18th victory of the season.

Davidson evened their record to 6-6-1 after the long weekend on the road.

“You knew it was going to be a special match right from the start with [Matt Leonard ’06] getting a
huge win against a guy he’s never beat before,” said Coman. “I think that win helped us believe that we
can beat anybody, and that has given us a lot of confidence and momentum going into the end of the
season.”

--Patrick Coman ’06

It appears to be the 23-17 win at Southern Conference opponent Appalachian State that has sparked this streak of success.

The ’Cats had not won a single SoCon match in 21 years, with a total of 74 winless matches. Their
last victory came in 1985 after they defeated Furman 42-9.

“We definitely got some momentum going from [the Appalachian State] match,” said Patrick Coman ’06, who won by fall against
Franklin & Marshall.

> of Sports Information

The wrestling team will try to start a new streak in their match against Chattanooga.

“You knew it was going to be a special match right from the start with [Matt Leonard ’06] getting a
huge win against a guy he’s never beat before,” said Coman. “I think that win helped us believe that we
can beat anybody, and that has given us a lot of confidence and momentum going into the end of the
season.”

The momentum clearly carried through into this past weekend.

In the opening match on Saturday against Franklin & Marshall, the Wildcats won four of the first five matches and
gained a 23-3 advantage over the Diplomats.

Coman and Jim Avola ’07 won by fall, while Matt Pendle ’08 frustrated his opponent to the point that the
Diplomat was disqualified for flagrant, unsportsmanlike conduct in the 157-pound bout.

Despite giving up forfeits in the last two upper weight-classes due to injury, the ’Cats still came away with a
27-22 victory.

In their second match of the day against George Mason, the ’Cats gained an 18-3 advantage after a close 2-1
win by Avola (141 lbs) followed by two consecutive forfeits awarded to Davidson.

Marcus Boyd ’07 added to the lead by fall in the 174-pound weight class, the fifth pin of his last
seven victories.

With forfeits being awarded to George Mason in the last two bouts, Sam O’Hair ’09 had to win the match
or avoid losing by technical fall or pin in the 187-pound bout.

Although he lost the match 8-5, he saved the 24-22 win for Davidson, extending their win-streak to five.

This streak came to an end the very next day when the ’Cats traveled to Drexel for their final match
of the weekend.

Drexel controlled the match from the start, earning victories in five of the first six bouts.

Davidson’s lone win during this stretch came from Avola, an 8-7 victory in the 147-pound weight-class.

Although both Boyd (174 lbs) and O’Hair (187 lbs) came away with victories, the Wildcats simply could not catch up
and lost the match 28-9.

Boyd remained reliable, pulling off a 6-4 overtime decision in the 174-pound bout. Boyd improved his overall dual record to
11-1 while extending his streak without a loss to eight.

Avola, who also has only one loss in dual competition, improved his winning streak to six with his win versus
Drexel.

“We’re trying not to worry too much about the loss to Drexel,” said Coman. “We could have wrestled better, but
it was a long road trip and we’re just trying to use it as a learning experience.”

The ’Cats will be put to the test again this Saturday when they host Southern Conference opponent Chattanooga.

The match will begin at 6 p.m. in Belk Arena.
