THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Conservative writer William Kristol delivers the 2006 Wearn Lecture at Duke.

Wearn, from page 1

rounding the upcoming 2008 presidential election, saying that “[President] Bush cannot run again and [Vice President] Cheney probably won’t. In
2008, for the first time in 56 years, there will be competitive nominations in both major political parties.”

Throughout his presentation, Kristol drew laughs from the audience, joking about topics ranging from his once having accidentally voted for
a Communist candidate to the possibility of a Hillary Clinton-Condoleezza Rice showdown in the 2008 presidential election.

“I thought that he was a very engaging speaker and funny in a partisan way but a little lacking in
substance,” said Lauren Woodall ’08.

A question and answer session followed Kristol’s speech.

During this portion of the talk, he addressed FEMA’s response to Hurricane Katrina and the federal deficit.

After 30 minutes of questions, Kristol stopped the session.

Several students were unable to ask their questions.

“I wanted to ask a question about Latin America to break the focus on the Middle East that ran throughout
the talk,” Woodall said. “I thought his answers were somewhat weak, but so were the questions.”

Kristol is editor of the influential conservative magazine The Weekly Standard and appears regularly on Fox News Channel.

Kristol also recently co-authored the New York Times bestseller “The War Over Iraq: America’s Mission and Saddam’s Tyranny.”

Before starting The Weekly Standard in 1995, Kristol served as chief-of-staff to Secretary of Education William Bennett during the Reagan
administration and to Vice President Dan Quayle during the presidency of George H.W. Bush.

Former Wearn Lecture presenters have included economist Paul Krugman, former chief of the Clinton White House staff Erskine Bowles, and
former U.S. Secretary of Defense William Cohen.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2006

Changes to bylaws, future recycling program discussed

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

The Student Government Association (SGA) discussed changes to the organization’s bylaws, a recycling pilot program, and Duke residence hall renovation
plans.

Freshman Class President Richmond Blake ’09 presented a proposal to provide next year’s incoming freshmen with recycling bins for their
rooms.

“Our first goal is to educate the student body about what can and cannot be recycled in order to improve
the program by reducing contamination,” Blake said.

This idea was prompted by the Environmental Action Committee’s waste audit, which revealed that much of the recyclable waste from
the dormitories was contaminated with non-recyclable items.

Blake said students would be more conscientious of separating their recyclable from their non-recyclable waste if they could do so
in their rooms. Currently, students must dispose of their recyclable items in a communal container located on each hall.

Following Blake’s presentation, Senator John Helms ’07 advocated an immediate overhaul of the SGA bylaws.

“We don’t need to wait until election to be proactive and to embrace the charge that we’ve been given as
representatives,” Helms said.

Helms said the 35-page document is too long and proposed that the bylaws be trimmed down to between five and
seven pages. He also explained that the current bylaws had not undergone a major update since their composition in 1974.

Helms suggested that the document could be streamlined by eliminating detailed descriptions of procedures and of position and committee duties.
These details could then be included in a separate document.

SGA President Ryan Arnold ’06 requested that Helms and anyone else with an interest in rewriting the bylaws have a
proposal ready to present at the February 16 meeting.

Associate Dean of Students and Director of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano and Associate Director of Residence Life Leslie Urban presented
floor plans for the Duke renovation.

Several senators expressed concern that the presence of the Dean Rusk Program in the building’s first floor would allow non-Davidson
students to access rooms on the upper floors.

Marsicano pointed out that the presence of the Dean Rusk offices in Duke would be little different than the current
presence of the Residence Life Office (RLO) in Belk or of Campus Police in Tomlinson.

“Probably the bigger issue will be with the students living above the offices,” Marsicano said. “More than once, I’ve scared
some poor freshman guy to death by appearing at his door and asking him to stop bouncing his basketball because
I can hear it through the ceiling of my office [in the basement of Belk].”

Marsicano and Urban agreed to consider SGA’s suggestion that CatCard readers be installed near the elevator that will communicate between
the Dean Rusk offices and the building’s upper floors.

RLO staff members identified areas on the first floor of Duke where CatCard readers could be installed to prevent non-Davidson
students from accessing residential halls.

Python, from page 1

mals; however, their potential to cause traffic accidents is undeniable.

Both Dorcas and Pittman expressed doubt about the potential of complete eradication.

“I don’t know if the pythons will be successfully eradicated,” Pittman said. “To me it seems to be very unlikely.
They seem to be very successful and have already become quite prevalent throughout the park.

“They are somewhat reclusive and very difficult to find, which to me seems like the biggest challenge for extermination,” she
added.

However, there is promise in controlling the python population.

“Eradication is difficult, but it is possible to control them in vital places,” Dorcas said. Pittman agreed that control is
possible.

“I do think this study will provide valuable information about how they live, so that we can learn specific ways
of controlling them,” she said.
