THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Andrew Hathaway ’09 and Trevan Rankin ’09 won this year’s Assassins game.

Lifetime, from page 1

Assassins was approved because of the challenges and its involvement with Davidson Outdoors.

In order to get a lifetime credit for Assassins, players must participate in at least one challenge and must advance
to the final quartile of players.

“Assassins is unique in that the game is not restricted to a time interval or location,” Jose said. “The game
takes place 24/7 and can last a few weeks. Like many sports, it’s a physical, mental and strategic game. Assassins
is a social game as well.”

Students often request credit for activities and courses they participate in outside of Davidson. The PE department receives between five
and 10 such proposals each month.

Students request credit for everything from scuba diving lessons to whitewater rafting to an aerobics class at the YMCA.

McNay estimates that about 50 percent of students who come in for pre-approval of an outside activity get approved. However,
of those who ask for approval after the completion of their activity, less than 10 percent are granted credit.

Besides getting an activity pre-approved, McNay emphasizes writing a thorough proposal.

“Make it as detailed as possible. Tell where you’re coming from, why you want to do it, and what you’re
going to get out of it,” she said.

McNay also added that one activity could not fulfill two credits. For example, crew and swimming, since they both award
a team sports credit, cannot count also as a water sports credit.

In order to graduate from Davidson, students must complete a four-part PE curriculum.

Students must receive a lifetime credit, team sports credit, water credit and they must complete Davidson 101, a series of
classes focused on healthy living.

PE credits are usually obtained by taking courses from the PE department. Around 50 courses are offered and, in order
to get credit for an activity, students must attend eight to 12 sessions.

Traditional lifetime classes offered in the PE curriculum include tennis, ballroom dancing, aerobics and self-defense.

Students receive a team credit for 70 percent participation in an intramural, club or varsity sport, as well as participation
in freshman Flickerball.

Classes for the water credit include water-skiing, swim lessons and sailing.

The final component of the PE requirement is Davidson 101, a series of seven classes on issues faced at Davidson
and beyond, such as alcohol, sexuality and career planning.

“Assassins is unique... The game takes place 24/7 and can last a few weeks. Like many sports, it’s a physical,
mental and strategic game.”

--Emmanuel Jose ‘06

The underlying principle of the PE department is that students should leave Davidson as well-rounded individuals.

“Physical activity is important to lifetime development and to carrying on an active and healthy life,” McNay said.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2006

CoHo, from page 1

recruiting new members.

However, they only added one member during last month’s self-selection process and have decided that with so few members they
do not want to continue.

Over the years, there have been a number of short-lived eating house organizations.

“They spring up, experience popularity for a few years, and then close,” Groves said. “I’m not sure if it is
because of the traditional view of Greek life being single-sex organizations or not, but I’m sure that perception hinders our
recruitment. I am almost positive that another co-ed eating organization will spring up in time.”

Ivins echoed Groves’ sentiments, saying that she believed that there were perception problems with trying to establish a co-ed house
on Patterson Court.

She admitted that the closing upset her and said that “in a culture where every new PCC member has to
attend Bean Bag series events about healthy relationships, it is sad that students do not want to support the only
organization on the court dedicated to the equal camaraderie between men and women. I feel that there will always be
a desire and a need for a co-ed eating house, but one will never flourish until there is a change
in the fear and prejudice between the sexes at Davidson.”

Although CoHo will be closed in the fall 2006, Ivins did want to highlight that the house is not in
debt and will finish out the semester in the black.

CoHo will also continue to host events this semester despite the house’s imminent closing.

Patterson Court Advisor Joy Hamm said that CoHo closed of its own volition.

Hamm also said Patterson Court Council planned on supporting CoHo regardless of the outcome of its decision.
