2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

March, from page 1

everyone that we’ve got to get out of Iraq.”

Casey and Just Peace’s outgoing president Nora Goldberger ’08 decided to hold the march on Mar. 26 to coincide with
the third anniversary of the war in Iraq.

“The march, for sure, won't be revolutionary or groundbreaking, but it means something to know that fellow townspeople, students, professors,
staff members agree on something which seems common sense to many: that the way Bush and the American government has
dealt with Iraq has at times been rash, irresponsible, dangerous and worrisome.”

--Sami Jarrah ‘07

The third anniversary was actually last Sunday, but Goldberger decided to hold off the march because there were already many
events occurring on campus.

Although Just Peace members plan to participate in the march, the group decided to advertise the event on campus as
the “March of Discontent” rather than endorse Casey’s call for a withdrawal of American troops from Iraq.

“We thought we’d give it a general, umbrella idea, and people can come for their own reasons,” Goldberger said. “We
want people to come for any reasons they think the invasion and occupation were mishandled.”

Just Peace has already hung a large banner in the Union and fliers in dormitories around campus.

The group also plans to send out emails.

Goldberger hopes that the march will prove that there are members of the campus community who are dissatisfied with the
Bush administration.

Just Peace member Sami Jarrah ’07 agrees.

“The march, for sure, won’t be revolutionary or groundbreaking, but it means something to know that fellow townspeople, students, professors,
staff members agree on something which seems common sense to many: that the way Bush and the American government has
dealt with Iraq has at times been rash, irresponsible, dangerous and worrisome,” Jarrah said.

According to Goldberger, participants plan to write letters to senators after the march to “take this energy from coming together
and put it to good use.”

Clunie wins Watson

By JACKIE MCKEON
News Editor

Chris Clunie ’06, a political science major and varsity basketball player, won the Watson Fellowship last week for his proposal
to study the link between basketball and global politics.

The Watson Fellowship is a one-year, $25,000 grant awarded to graduating college seniors to allow them to study and travel
outside the U.S.

Clunie will spend his year abroad as a Watson Fellow in Japan, South Africa, Argentina, and Italy.

Clunie won the Watson Fellowship.

Clunie’s inspiration for his proposal came from his academic and athletic involvements at Davidson.

“My inspiration definitely came from my love for the game of basketball and my experiences within a political science major
that have exposed me to the world of global politics,” Clunie said.

For Clunie, basketball is much more than a game.

He has played basketball nearly his entire life and has served as a counselor in inner-city basketball camps.

“Basketball has the ability to transcend the court and become more than just a game in the sense that people
use it for things such as diplomacy, social and economic mobility, international solidarity, and cultural change. I feel like the
game has given so much to me and I want to better understand and become a part of using the
game to give back to others,” Clunie said.

Clunie’s first destination for studying basketball’s impact on global politics will be Japan at the International Basketball Federation World Championships.

As a volunteer at the event, Clunie will study its effectiveness at creating international solidarity between the 24 competing teams.

Clunie will then travel to South Africa where he will coach a youth team in the “Playing for Peace” organization.

He plans to study how “Playing for Peace” teaches leadership skills and helps the young players understand and confront social
issues like AIDS.

In Argentina, Clunie will meet players in the lower Argentinean basketball leagues who believe that basketball will grant them great
fame and economic success.

Finally, Clunie will travel to Italy where he will study “Basketball Without Borders.”

Basketball players from troubled countries like the Balkans and Congo join “Basketball Without Borders” not just to increase their playing
skills, but also to use their athletic success as a tool to reduce the conflict in their own countries.

Clunie expects his year as a Watson Fellow to be a challenging and rewarding experience.

“I hope to come forth a changed person as a result of these experiences with a greater sense of leadership,
independence and ability to relate to different cultures and backgrounds. I also hope to challenge myself and become exposed to
issues that are significant to me and which are becoming significantly more important throughout the world,” Clunie said.

Clunie began his proposal in the fall and received help from Head Basketball Coach Bob McKillop and MacArthur Assistant Professor
of Political Science Russell Crandall.

According to Clunie, McKillop was instrumental in helping him locate basketball sources in different countries while Crandall served as an
overall advisor.

“[Crandall] really worked with me and challenged me to thoroughly express my motivations and present a unique proposal where I
would be able to impact people and I myself would be impacted, as well,” Clunie said.

The Thomas J. Watson Foundation created the Watson Fellowship Program in 1968 and it has since granted more than 2,300
awards, totaling more than $29 million.

Davidson has participated in the Watson Fellowship since its inception and, on average, has had at least one Watson fellow
from every graduating class.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 2006

Students and faculty line up in the Union to buy Bob Dylan tickets. Over 1,200 tickets were sold yesterday at
$35 each.
