12 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 2006

For you SOs fainG.a

TRUMBO’S PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat Game of the Week
Baseball vs. Wake Forest
Monday 6:00 p.m.

Baseball season is in full swing, and the vee aoe ee

Hitters’ envy only an excuse for Bonds

It was jealousy. In his recent book about the juiced-up slugger Barry Bonds, Jeff Pearlman provides clear, supposedly documented and
sort of indisputable proof that the real motive behind Bonds’ steroid-induced hitting mania is plain old jealousy.

Well, obviously, that makes it all okay. Never mind that he was breaking the rules—he was doing it in the
throes of real human emotion and we can’t be held accountable for our emotions. I hate cheaters, but not because
cheating is wrong. If I could get away with it, I’d cheat more often... Not on tests and papers, but
on board games and card games—things that don’t matter but are always nice to win. So the reason I really
hate cheaters so much is because they are getting away with something that the rest of us aren’t. It would
be a double standard to call out cheaters and then turn around and cheat myself—and I hate double standards, too.

But Bonds got around the rulebook, is still getting away with it, and now we—or more specifically Pearlman—pass it off
as jealousy. I think that’s really annoying. It’s okay to have sympathy for a five-year-old who’s envious of her older
sister, but it’s not okay to sympathize with a million-dollar athlete jealous of other million-dollar athletes. He’s surpassing all the
previous records, illegally, of course, because he wanted what others had: fame, fortune, bulging muscles—there’s no telling his ultimate motivator.
Now, however, he’s upset that people are judging him and the way he’s gone about his career.

Apparently Bonds vented to fellow superstar Ken Griffey, Jr. about the way the media have been treating him. His words
later were relayed, somehow, to Pearlman, who, in the interest of casting an investigative light on this horrible but unsurprising
truth—and making some sweet cash—wrote a book about it.

“You know what?,” said Bonds, “I had a helluva season last year, and nobody gave a crap. Nobody. As much
as I’ve complained about McGwire and Canseco and all of the bull with steroids, I’m tired of fighting it. I
turn 35 this year. I’ve got three or four good seasons left, and I wanna get paid. I’m just gonna
start using some hard-core stuff, and hopefully it won’t hurt my body. Then I’ll get out of the game and
be done with it.”

Um, don’t you remember health class, Barry? Remember the pictures titled “Your Brain on Drugs” with the picture of the
frying egg? That sounds to me like somebody who has either been badly misquoted or isn’t thinking with all of
the brain cells God gave him. Which are dying rapid, chemically induced deaths. Way to say all that out loud,
slugger. Now you have to live with it.

Clearly, Bonds watched his teammates and fellow players get rewarded for taking drugs and decided to get in on the
action. Is it jealousy or the seizing of a perfect opportunity that we’re now criticizing? He wasn’t the first, and
he won’t be the last to get ahead the easy way.

In his book, however, Pearlman is saying that Bonds is the victim of some sort of conspiracy against his soul
that won’t allow him to rise above his own petty feelings. Really, Pearlman suggests, we’re all like Barry, subject to
human weakness, unable to succeed without a crutch like steroids. That’s harsh if you ask me—we’re all really pathetic if
we’re as submissive to our worst instincts like Barry, aren’t we?

Personally, I don’t want to be that pathetic. I also prefer to believe that there are people out there, born,
unborn or in the process of being born, who are capable of surpassing Aaron and Ruth and breaking every record
without the benefit of drugs. Ruth, a hotdog-scoffing, cigar-puffing, tubby little dude, could whale the skin off a ball and
then run the bases with his own pigeon-toed version of a moonwalk. But modern athletes who’ve trained and ingested protein
powder and Naked juice until it’s coming out of their ears can’t get the job done. What’s the deal?

My advice to Barry Bonds is this: write your own book denouncing the media and name-drop all of your famous
friends. It will, I guarantee you, be an immediate best-seller. Then marry Nina Koch, so when you die of a
drug overdose she can have all your undeserved money. She needs it for her blossoming film career: California is expensive.

Dayton game brings fans together

By Mark Clayton
Staff Writer

Recently, I have read a lot of articles in the sporting world about Davidson College. Some discuss the father-son McKillop
relationship, others focus on All-American Brendan Winters and a few sounded the upset alert overThad Matta’s Buckeyes. I figured why
not one more article showing how a Friday in Dayton, Ohio, exemplified what Davidson College is all about. For four
years, Davidson basketball players, coaches, and fans have been dreaming of a trip back to the Big Dance. On Mar.
6, that dream became a reality in Charleston with a dominating 25-point win in the SoCon ’Ship. The endless Bracketology
checking and Joe Lunardi bashing ended on Selection Sunday when the ’Cats drew No. 2 seed Ohio State in the
Buckeyes’ backyard. Tiny old Davidson sold out its allotted 550 tickets in just 18 hours. The buzz around campus continued
to pick up as the week wore on. People kept asking each other if they were making the trip up
to Dayton as Steve Lavin and Jay Bilas talked of our seven seniors, our excellent coach Bob McKillop, and our
battle-tested out-of-conference schedule. Some people took off on Wednesday afternoon, so as to not miss Thursday’s first-round action; others left
Thursday after class and the rest at 2:00 a.m. Friday morning. After No. 15 seed Winthrop came up two points
short of a major upset against No. 2 Tennessee, everyone crossing the West Virginia/Ohio border knew we could shock Dials
and the Buckeyes. After a night at Wings, a “local” Dayton bar (don’t ever go there), we couldn’t wait for
game time. So our car pulled into the UD parking lot at 9:45 a.m., 15 minutes before the event staff
could even set up to start collecting the $10 parking fee. Immediately, everyone got on the horn and called fellow
’Cat fans to see where they were. “Lot D, all the way in the back.” “Alright, silly, be there in
15,” was a common convo. By 10:30, the tailgate had grown to 20 people. At 11:00 a.m., it was more
like 35. Signs were being made and trash was being talked. It was almost time for tip. Davidson really is
a small little community, and it had never been more apparent than on a plot of asphalt in Dayton, Ohio.
Fellow students who rarely would hang out together on Patterson Court came together for the cause. A school of 1,600
made more noise than a school of over 50,000. And why not—we certainly had plenty to cheer about. The PA
announcer telling the fans to “remain seated”—directed at the Davidson student section—had no chance to succeed. Even President Vagt got
into the action and moved into the student section because the alumni weren't rowdy enough. Once inside UD Arena, the
550 ’Cats fans had no business making more noise than the 8,000 strong Buckeye nation. Likewise, much of the country
thought we had no business being up by four at halftime. But behind the scoring of Ian Johnson and sound
team defense, the ’Cats led 29-25. The crowd was going nuts as the teams headed to the locker rooms. Walking
around the concourse at halftime, every Northern Iowa and Georgetown fan was getting high-fived in their conversion to being a
Davidson fan for the second half. A school of 1,600 made more noise than a school of over 50,000. And
why not—we certainly had plenty to cheer about. The PA announcer telling the fans to “remain seated”—directed at the Davidson
student section—had no chance to succeed. Even President Vagt got into the action and moved into the student section because
the alumni weren’t rowdy enough. If Matt Sylvester didn’t get in foul trouble to allow Lewis the opportunity to score
16 second-half points and if we weren’t in Dayton, I feel the Georgetown vs. D Town match-up would have been
money on Sunday. That is all hypothetical now. The fact is that Ohio State hit some big shots in the
second half while ours rimmed out. The ’Cats never backed down or stopped fighting. The Davidson faithful recognized this and
were still chanting, “Let’s Go Wildcats!” as the team walked off the floor for the last time of the season
with a 70-62 defeat. Maybe the trip to Dayton didn’t end how I had envisioned. I pictured the Davidson equivalent
of Bryce Drew’s heroics in 1998 for Valpo and taking down Georgetown on Sunday. But instead, I think everyone who
was at UD took away something totally different. Davidson Basketball and Davidson College are doing things the right way and
we’re getting our shots at the big boys on the national level and that’s certainly something to be proud of
and to cheer for. The NCAA Tournament appearance marked the first for the senior class (except Eric Blancett, who played
in 2002) which graduates seven seniors in May. The near upset on Friday brought closure to the exceptional careers of
Brendan Winters, Matt McKillop, Ian Johnson, Kenny Grant, Jason Morton, Eric Blancett, and Chris Clunie. In four years, these seniors
led Davidson to three SoCon Regular Season Championships, a Southern Conference Tournament Championship, two NIT victories, and one hell of
a day in Dayton.
