THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2006

Steelers to bring XL defense; Seahawks weak

By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Senior Staff Writer

It’s very gratifying to know that Bill Cowher reads my sports column. Since I wrote, back on Dec. 7, that the Steelers were anemic and would lose to Cincinnati, Cowher has gotten his boys angry, and they have gone on possibly the most dominant win streak of the year: 7-0, outscoring opponents by a total of 201-85. Roethlisberger has chucked 680 yards in the three playoff games, including seven touchdowns and one interception. The wheels on the Bus, meanwhile, have been going round and round once more, as Jerome Bettis has started to look less like the man who’s getting older and more like the myth we knew when we were younger. And I could write this entire article about how the Pittsburgh defense has flat out embarrassed people, such as the time they reined in the Colts’ touted offense for a mere field goal in three quarters of play.

Yes, part of this was because Mama Manning hasn’t given Eli or Peyton their Chunky Soup in the New Year; the brothers who were splattered all over highlight reels and mag covers are now partly splattered all over the turf on their home fields. This goes to show two things. First, the media overhypes certain personalities. A brother vs. brother Super Bowl would be sooo cool, except the Giants certainly did not have the stuff to make it to the game and the Colts, well, got tooled by a group that has people whispering “Steel Curtain” and trying not to jinx it. Which goes to the second point: a good team never buys the hype. Carolina and Pittsburgh went into New York and Indianapolis, respectively, with as much concern for all the crazy statistics and SI features their opponents had put as for the color of the Gatorade they dumped on the coaches.

Now, while the Steelers have continued their winning ways and travel to Detroit for their first shot at a ring in a decade, the Cats returned to Charlotte-Douglas International this weekend with their tails not between their legs, but in casts. Yes, that sound you heard above the quiet leaf-blowers on Sunday night was me unleashing every profanity known to exist at the television as I watched my Panthers get dumped on by the Seahawks. But when I broke my mourning fast this afternoon, I realized Seattle was not necessarily the better team. True, 34-14 is a pretty dominating score, especially when half of the 14 came on a questionable punt return and the other half came in the fourth quarter. Let us not forget, however, what had determined beyond a shadow of a doubt that

I'll allow that Delhomme could have simply had a terrible game. 34.9 passer ratings do happen. I'll allow that Steve Smith could have simply been shut down by a superior defense. You did notice that five Seahawk defenders were around him whenever the ball came his way, didn’t you? I'll even

Photo court \POHTUSU.COMThe Panthers would lose. The Almighty playah Shaun Alexander and Jerome Bettis will face off in Super Bowl XL. Photo courtesy of berkeley.edu.

Allow that the combination of Hasselbeck and Alexander could rack up 34 points on my boys. On top of dropped passes, timeout miscues, and missed open-field tackles, it still could just be a terrible day, but when you add in the fact that the Panthers were forced, after five rushing attempts, to put in their fourth-string running back, you begin to see that somebody up in the clouds had it in for Carolina.

One last point on the Panthers: has John Fox gotten closer to the Lombardi Trophy than anyone else with the Cats? Yes. Do I think the presence of a Y chromosome in his genes is debatable? Yes. His play calling was the most blatant display of a lack of testosterone imaginable. I also think the Panthers who decided they were flat out better men than the Giants two weeks ago must have caught pansy-itis from their coach; it was more than just poor decisions from the headset, they didn’t have enough execution in them to do a paraplegic turkey on a chopping block.

On to Feb. 5, while most of you will be watching the commercials religiously, those who care about the game will ask you to be quiet in between E-Trade and Budweiser. My prediction, though, is that it will not take long to decide the game, even if you will need to watch it to the end. The Steelers are running on all cylinders and then some; the Seahawks, meanwhile, have played two teams that looked surprised that they were expected to play tackle instead of flag. Shaun Alexander, while he may have looked good against Carolina, is still nowhere near back to normal, and has a career to worry about. Bettis, on the other hand, is looking something like Rocky IV: old, worn down and close to retirement, but it only means he’ll fight harder. Pittsburgh’s running defense is stingy on a bad day, suffocating otherwise. There will be no home crowd in Detroit for the Seahawks defense, and with only eleven men on the field they just aren’t as good. Meanwhile, I expect to see the Terrible Towel flying in most of the stadium. Steelers fans are everywhere, and those who aren’t in Detroit will travel. In short, everything is in Pittsburgh’s favor. So they will follow what has become their playoff pattern: blow a team apart in the first half, almost give it back in the second, but hold on to win. One for the thumb did not come in ’81, but 25 years later, it’ll still fit.

iknfun.com

The evening was a success as over 200 coats were donated to Crisis.

Davidson 82 Missouri 73
Dec. 7th, 2005

Davidson Athletics would like to thank the following sponsors for their generous contribution to the production of our student “Cat Corps” T-Shirts and the Wildcat Winter Coat Drive!

Jim Fuller & Sandy Carnegie
Personal Injury Litigation Team at the McIntosh Law Firm

JAN-PAK supply