| PERS THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY MARCH 15, 2006

Staff Editorial

A matter of respect

For an institution that prides itself on the Honor Code and its commitment to community, the recent rise in abusive
student behavior toward Union Café workers is simply deplorable. Café workers should never have to deal with a hostile work
environment. It is especially saddening that disrespectful students are at the root of the problem. Harassment of Café workers is
a Code of Responsibility violation that should be punished appropriately. But the threat of disciplinary action should not have to
be a deterrent for abusive behavior. A basic respect for our fellow community members and a commitment to the core
values that we so eloquently praised in our admission essays should be enough.

The Union is considering raising the pay for the night manager to help compensate for the undesirable hours and to
make the position more appealing for prospective applicants. If the College decides to give the night manager a raise, the
Union Café workers should have a corresponding salary increase. But while a pay raise may help recruit and retain workers,
it does not solve the larger problem. Much of the harassment is coming from inebriated students returning from Patterson Court
parties on Wednesday and the weekends for late night snacks. To truly improve its public image, PCC needs to do
more than serve as a cheerleader for its service events; it must tackle problems related to excessive drinking head-on. PCC
leaders need to be proactive in collaborating with the SGA and Union Café staff to ameliorate the situation.

There is poor communication between the people who make decisions regarding the Union Café and the students. Since Café workers
are the most visible, they are forced to deal with the brunt of the criticism. Widespread student dissatisfaction exists toward
certain aspects of the Union Café. Common complaints include overpriced food, a lack of selection and early closing times. While
these concerns may be valid and should be seriously considered by the administration, they do not justify students’ abusive behavior
to their fellow community members. Neither drunkenness nor frustration is an excuse for treating anyone with disrespect.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor-in-Chief
Liz Barry

Managing Editor
Ruchi Turakhia

News Editors
Kate Gillespie, Lexi Hamilton, & Jackie McKeen

Perspectives Editors
Halley Achen & Nathan Bradshaw

Arts & Living Editors
Katie Hunter & Mike Wellman

Sports Editors
Bobby Kenner & Jeff Yeakel

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Students need to show respect for Honor Code

Recently, members of the Davidson College staff in both Vail Commons and the Union Café have caught students in apparent
acts of stealing. In Commons, stealing is defined as the removal of food not being consumed during a meal (removing
a sandwich to be consumed later, filling up one’s backpack with apples, etc.). Taking food from Commons with the intention
of eating it later translates into getting two meals for the price of one. Incidents in the Union Café (theft
of teabags, carrying food out before paying) have similarly shaken the staff’s faith in our willingness as students to obey
common sense. The physical rearrangement of the Union Café is partially a response to its staff’s perception that it must
be more vigilant. It’s time that we Davidson students restore the staff’s faith in us. We know better than to
steal. Alleged acts of stealing can be tried under the Honor Code, something that neither we on the Honor Council
nor any of us as students want to see happen. Common sense and the Honor Code concur that it’s right
to eat only what we have paid for.

David Crane, Honor Council Chair;
Bryant Kirkland, Chair-Elect

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor. Please e-mail submissions of fewer than 250 words to davidsonian@davidson.edu by Sunday night.
We reserve the right to edit for content, brevity and grammar. Anonymous letters will not be printed.

Korean War shouldn’t be forgotten

In late summer 1950, things looked bleak in Korea. American, South Korean and United Nations troops had been destroyed, routed
and pushed down the Korean peninsula into a small semicircle aroundthe port of Pusan. It seemed that the first substantive
act of the young United Nations would end in failure and that a recently freed Korean people (from Japanese rule)
would be subject to another unfortunate fate: conquest by Communists. It was a grim situation for both South Korea and
for the United States. The tide, however, turned. The tortured picture of a communist Korea was prevented by an unparalleled
act. In September, United Nations troops (almost all American) successfully landed at the port of Inchon midway up the Korean
peninsula. American troops subsequently raced out of Inchon and Pusan and fought their way north. There were to be more
setbacks in the war, but in those special days of September 1950, a people were saved from a horrible fate
by American intervention.

I apologize for the brief historical reminiscence, but the Korean struggle is something that should not be forgotten. Regrettably, however,
it seems that the youth in South Korea do not remember the sacrifices their ancestors made. In a recent poll,
it was found that the majority of the youth in our recently democratized ally would side with North Korea if
the United States attacked the Communist North. Let us not forget that our troops remain in Korea. And remember, youth
of Korea, the war is not over. A cease-fire was merely signed. The survey reported that 40.7 percent of the
youths would want South Korea to remain neutral in any conflict between the North and the United States. A mere
11.6 percent would side with us. The Associated Press further reported, “The youths named China as South Korea’s most important
partner for maintaining friendly relations, at 39.5 percent, followed by the United States and North Korea at 18.4 and 18
percent, respectively.”

Think of what that means. The U.S. was only 0.4 percent ahead of North Korea and not even close to
China. Almost fifty years ago, the now-beloved North Koreans and Chinese were relentlessly trying to unify Korea under a communist
banner. It is the intervention of the United States and the democratic world, not to mention the determination and spirit
of the South Korean people, that allowed that country to remain independent. Their subsequent freedom allowed for unprecedented economic growth,
social reforms, and the institutionalization of democratic ideas and principles. It is a sad realization that the Korean youths, youths
with unprecedented rights and privileges, would either join with a current enemy or remain neutral in a war between their
past and present defender and their past and present opponent. Tens of thousands of Americans died, and hundreds of thousands,
if not millions, of South Koreans perished in the conflict. Let us not forget that our troops remain in Korea.
And remember, youth of Korea, the war is not over. A cease-fire was merely signed.

Tunnels leading from North Korea to South Korea have been discovered, North Korean artillery is trained on Seoul, and the
North Korean leadership has repeatedly lied on the issue of nuclear weapons. The North Korean people exist under a ruthless
dictatorship devoid of human decency. If that does not constitute a threatening state or an unlikely partner, I do not
know what does.

The Korean War does not have the publicity other American wars have. The conflict is not frequently featured in popular
movies, video games, or books. Korean veterans, nevertheless, remain. Some time ago, I remember seeing one such veteran in eastern
North Carolina. As I was getting out of my car to go inside my local Harris Teeter, a proud old
man, wearing a Korean War cap and sporting a smile, was leaving the grocery store. He, for certain, had experienced
the hell that was that war, and had escaped and lived a long life. I did not know the man,
but I was proud when I saw him. That man faced unspeakable horrors for our country, and in so doing
helped another country receive the same special gifts that Americans have enjoyed for over two centuries. Because of him and
those like him, South Korean youths have gifts history seldom allows to be given.

Matt Hall ’06 is a history major from Bennington, Vt. Contact him at mthall@davidson.edu.
