16 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2006

’Cats regain SoCon lead, avenge ’05 Princeton loss

By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Senior Staff Writer

The Wildcats returned to their winning ways this week, topping both the Elon Phoenix and the Princeton Tigers. The wins
have propelled Davidson to 13-7 overall, with a 6-2 record in Southern Conference play. The Elon win also gave Davidson
a half-game edge on Furman for leadership of the South Division in the SoCon, and with the Christian Knights’ loss
to WCU on Monday, the ’Cats are now in first place by a full game.

After a slow start against Elon on Friday, Davidson went on a 20-8 run from 5:40 until halftime, then never
looked back as they held a lead of 10 or more for the entire second half and finished at 79-60.
In the victory, Ian Johnson ’06 and Jason Morton ’06 shared high-scoring honors, both with 18 points. The team shot
a solid nine for 22 from behind the arc, four of the trifectas coming from Morton.

After a pair of road losses in the conference to Furman and Chattanooga, the win over Elon helped re-establish the
tone for Davidson. When asked about what needed to change to keep the team more consistent in the seven remaining
SoCon matchups, coach Bob McKillop said, “We need to become a little bit more tough-minded if we are facing a
deficit. With a senior-laden team there should be an understanding of how vital it is to stay in this system,
how the teamwork that we thrive upon needs to be there whether there’s a big deficit or a big margin.”

McKillop also pointed out that Davidson is the team to beat this year, not only because of its success last
year, but because of the last several years in the SoCon. “This senior class has been largely responsible for that
success, and that should indicate to us that we’ll be getting a great shot from every opponent, and that will
then make us better and help us to accomplish our goal to improve as a team.”

SoCon competition is much tighter than last year, said Boris Meno ’08. “It is clear that this year is a
lot closer between the teams; everyone is doing well. It’s really good competition for us as we try to get
ready and aim for March. We’re confident right now, but we still have to see what happens.”

Then on Sunday, the ’Cats were pitted against what many consider to be Davidson’s Northern counterpart, Princeton. While some may
contend that Princeton’s academics are in a class with Davidson, their athletics proved incapable of keeping up with the deadly
efficiency of the Wildcat offense. McKillop noted that Princeton is also an important win because of Davidson’s recruiting competition with
the New Jersey institution. "It’s always good to get a win against Princeton; we recruit a lot against them, so
we know a lot of their players.”

The ’Cats shot 48.9 percent from the floor, including eight for 20 from long range. Johnson led all players with
15, while Meno put up 13 and Kenny Grant ’06 contributed 10 assists with only one turnover. The team, after
allowing a pair of three-point baskets, overtook the Tigers and never relinquished their lead, cruising to a 65-50 win.

During a timeout in the first half, Sam Spencer ’07 and Nathan Bradshaw ’08 teamed up to win the Rubber
Chicken Laundry Basket Challenge. While the statistics may sound like a normal day at the office for the Wildcats, they
were playing without leading scorer.

See Basketball, page 15

’Cats drop heartbreaker to UNC-G in

Kenny Grant ‘06
Men’s Basketball
Hometown: Lido Beach, N.Y.
Major: Sociology

In last Sunday’s home game against Princeton, Grant shelled out 10 assists, tying his previous season-high and contributing substantially to
his team’s 65-50 win against the Tigers. He also ended the game with only one turnover. With Grant'sHelp, the ‘Cats
had over a 45 percent shooting average.

By SUZIE ECKL
Staff Writer

The Wildcats fell to the Spartans of UNC-Greensboro Saturday in overtime, 63-62. To say the least, it was a heartbreaker.
From start to finish, things were pretty even. Both teams recorded 30 points in the paint, scored 15 off turnovers,
and knocked in 12 on their second-chance. The score knotted up 11 times during the game. The lead also changed
11 times. With these kinds of numbers, it is no small wonder the game was decided by a point.

Davidson put on a solid show in the first half of the game. Their shooting percentage sat at a healthy
42.9 percent, and almost 16 minutes into the game, they led by as many as 11 points. At the half,
they still maintained a six-point lead. In the second half of the game, however, the ’Cats let UNC-G make up
the difference. Leading or tied for all but 2:14 of the half, Davidson struggled to sink their shots as their
shooting percentage fell to just 32.3 percent. With 2:41 remaining in the second, Spartan Kristen Boone put in a jumper
to give her team a late lead. Davidson fought to tie it up again, and after her offensive rebound, Janell
Crayton ’06 did just that. Moments later, Boone grabbed the lead once more with just over two minutes on the
clock. Down by two, UNC-G forced a turnover prompting Washington to foul before Davidson called a 30-second timeout. Seventeen seconds
later, Jessica Mitchell ’07 took an offensive rebound, assisting Crayton who put it in the net. Without control of the
ball, the Wildcats watched as UNC-G made a final surge down the court, and Boone missed the basket sending the
game to overtime, Davidson’s second in the last three games.

In the overtime period, Danielle Hemerka ’08 grabbed a quick lead with her three-pointer assisted by Kelly Gassie ’09. The
Spartans did not give up, however, and took the lead with under two minutes remaining. Washington responded, putting in a
layup, but Boone, who plagued the Wildcats late in the second, downed the last basket of the night. After one
final timeout, Davidson’s high-scorer Mitchell could not take the lead back and missed her jumper with six seconds on the
clock.

“I felt like we had the advantage and were in control most of the game. Basketball is a game of
‘runs’ and unfortunately they made theirs at the end when it counted. It was a tough loss for us,” said
Mitchell.

The loss was the Wildcats’ second in a row and fourth in the Southern Conference while the Spartans lengthened their
winning streak to four games.

Two nights later, Davidson returned to the court for their second shot at College of Charleston this season and won
it 71-67. Coming out so strongly in the first period, the Wildcats would have never guessed that the final score
would be so close. The Wildcats hit the court strong and ran away with the lead early. At the 10:04
mark, Davidson had a commanding 25-8 lead. By the end of the half, Davidson capitalized on C of C’s mistakes,
gaining 15 points on 13 turnovers. The ’Cats downed 26 points in the paint, and Hemerka and Gassie had 12
and 11 points on the half, respectively.

See Women’s Basketball, page 15

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Baker, Morris, and Mercadante Sweep 5000 meters

Wildcats took the top three positions in the 5K portion of the UNC Fast Times track and field meet last
Friday at Chapel Hill. Co-captain Jonathan Baker ‘06 (photo, right) finished his 5000 meters first, beating teammate Sam Morris ‘08
by just 0.22 of a second. Austin Mercadante ‘06 came in less than 10 seconds later for third place.
