THE DAVIDSONIAN

Farmer, from page 1

Organization (WHO) in HIV prevention education.

According to Farmer, Joseph’s work exemplifies the importance of community-based support.

PIH employs the local community in their clinics, which is central to its philosophy that the community must be involved
in the fight against HIV.

In Rwanda, where PIH has another healthcare center, this meant building sustainable shelter and improving treatment facilities, as well as
providing primary and natal healthcare to HIV patients.

“We heard that AIDS draws attention away from primary healthcare — what we found was quite the opposite,” Farmer said.

In addition to discussing the logistics of PIH’s humanitarian mission, Farmer also addressed ideological issues regarding healthcare and reinforced the
importance of humanitarian work.

“All of us know what it’s like to be sick. The idea of not being able to have care because
you're poor is offensive to many people.”
—Paul Farmer

“He helped students think of healthcare as a human right, not simply as a policy issue,” said Director of the
Dean Rusk International Studies Chris Alexander.

Farmer’s talk was well-received by students.

“I admired his humility. Whereas most people could become egotistical about their achievements, Dr. Farmer only sees the good he
can do in the world,” Ben Van Dyke ’09 said.

Farmer’s speaking style was also appreciated.

“He was definitely one of the best speakers I have seen in my time at Davidson,” said Mary Kathryn Wyle
’06. “His talk had the perfect mixture of humor, anecdotes and facts, which kept everyone engaged and left me feeling
truly inspired.”

The effort to bring Farmer to Davidson was a collaboration of several campus organizations and academic departments.

The Biology department, Anthropology department, Dean Rusk International Studies program, Union Board Speakers committee, and Smith Fund all contributed.

In addition to being a physician, Dr. Farmer also has a PhD in Anthropology and is the subject of Tracy
Kidder’s book, “Mountains Beyond Mountains.”

PIH was founded in 1983 and provides community-based healthcare to impoverished patients in Haiti, Rwanda, Mexico, Guatemala, Peru, Russia, and
the United States.

The mission of PIH is rooted in the belief that all humans deserve reasonable healthcare regardless of their socioeconomic status.

According to its website, “PIH strives to achieve two overarching goals: to bring the benefits of modern medical science to
those most in need of them and to serve as an antidote to despair.”

Ruchi Turakhia contributed to this article.

---

Work in Davidson This Summer!

Summer Employment in the Library

The Library is now accepting applications for student summer employees. Positions are available in several departments.

Interested students should come by the Library Circulation Office for an application.
