THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2006 5

2006 Union Board Presidential Candidates

Liz Berndt

After being a hall counselor for a year and planning AIDS Ball, I feel excited and challenged to be running
to be president of Union Board. I would like students to understand that the Union Board exists to make their
lives easier. Life at Davidson can be extremely stressful and taxing unless there exist several venues for fun. My vision
for the Union Board is to have it function as an intermediary between students’ ideas and making those ideas a
reality. We have the way, what we lack is the will; I would like to see students provide the Union
Board with that will. I have a few ideas, but I would rather hear the suggestions of my fellow students
and let them control what the Union provides them. Some of my ideas include more Chick-fil-A at After Midnight, a
commentary wall in the Union where students’ ideas and opinions on a wide variety of topics can be displayed, and
more activities on Friday and Saturday afternoons, so students can enjoy both the Union and Patterson Court events. Finally, I
would like to maintain the current Union Board’s definition of success, basing the success of each event not on the
number of participants, but by the excitement of each attending student. Through these ideas, and hopefully many more from the
student body, I hope to make the Union into the student center that Davidson students want and deserve.

Michelle Navas

Given the opportunity to be your 2006-2007 Union Board President, I would bring new energy and enthusiasm to the Union
Board. I am actively involved in both the Recess and Coffeehouse Committees and would love to play a larger role
in the operation of the organization as a whole. In the past few years, the Union Board has been making
a conscious effort to reflect the interests of the student body in its events and concerts. If elected, I intend
to make the opinions of the student body my first priority. In order to do this, I ask that you
please vote for me as your 2006-2007 Union Board President.

Derrick Thompson

435,000 different products. Just as many opportunities. At McMaster-Carr, we will offer you a wealth of opportunity. In our management
development career path, you will learn all aspects of our unique business, from catalog development and market research to finance,
software development, and product distribution. Successful candidates will take on positions of increasing responsibility uncommon for recent college graduates. Our
people have backgrounds and interests as varied as the products we sell. Conversations around here vary in topic from jib
crane construction, warehouse layout, and developments in the nanotech sector to post-modern aesthetics, the latest opera, and baseball playoffs. This
variety of people, ideas, and passions enriches our workplace and enlivens our thinking. We don’t have reserved parking spaces. We
have very few private offices, and everyone is on a first-name basis. We have an open, collegial environment where ideas
areevaluated on their merit, not the title or tenure of the person who suggested them. Here, your good ideas will
thrive, even from day one. Regardless of your major, do you want to continue learning in a vibrant setting? Are
you intrigued to learn how your success in college can lead to an exciting next step in distributing industrial supplies?
Submit your resume today for a campus interview. Opportunities exist at each of our locations:
» Atlanta, GA
» Chicago, IL
» Cleveland, OH
» Los Angeles, CA
» Princeton, NJ

McMASTER-CARR

Resume Submission Deadline: Friday, February 3rd
Information Session: Thursday, February 16th
7:00 pm — 8:00 pm, Alvarez Union 313
Campus Interviews: Friday, February 17th

My experience with Union Board has been extensive, as I was the Vice Speakers Committee Chairman as a sophomore and
this year I served as Member At Large for the Union Board’s executive council. It has been an extremely rewarding
experience, as I have been able to learn from a very active and dedicated group of leaders who have contributed
to one of the most successful years in Union Board history. As President of Union Board, I hope to continue
this year’s success and improve an already great organization. One of my main goals as President will be to improve
student involvement with committee work which is so vital to the Union Board’s operation. It seems as if many students
do not feel that their role as a committee member is important, but in actuality, it is you, the student,
who is the heart of Union Board, because everything we do caters to students. That is why it must be
you, the student, who has an impact on Union Board, and I believe that as president I can foster an
environment for this to happen.

Arifuz Zaman

My name is Arifuz Zaman. I am a sophomore and would like to take this opportunity to become more involved
in directly serving the campus. I am a Bonner Scholar who is currently part of the Patterson Court Executive Council.
After sitting down with the current Union Board president and a former Union Board president, I have more perspective on
what the job entails. It is a big responsibility, for it not only serves the entire student body, but also
the faculty, staff, and the greater Davidson community. Because I am not in office yet, I can make no such
promises on what can happen or what will happen. However, it will be my job to serve as a medium
so that your voice can be heard. I cannot promise to make change, but only to influence change. Lastly, if
elected, I can only vow to maintain those programs that are already well-liked by the college community and work to
improve upon those that have not been as appealing.

FEBRUARY 12-14, 2006
2006 Bank of America Conference
Dean Rusk International Studies Program | Davidson College

DETERMINING OUR DESTINIES
Presented by the Dean Rusk International Studies Program

For a full schedule of events, visit www.davidson.edu/international or call the Dean Rusk Program at 704-894-2440
