THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 2006 = 11

Davidson, nation lack will to protest
By TREY SKINNER
Guest Columnist

According to the American Heritage Dictionary (take that, OED!) “discontent” is either “absence of contentment, dissatisfaction” or “a restless longing
for better circumstances.” Not exactly the most inflammatory of all words. In fact, I would say discontentment is about a
two on the angry scale: just above displeasure and below unhappiness. That’s why I was so surprised when, in a
recent conversation, a friend of mine related his reason for not attending the “march of discontent.” This friend, who is
certainly not a fan of the war, said that he thought the march was too radical and unproductive. The “march
of discontent” or, perhaps, the “march of ‘a restless longing for better circumstances” is too radical? I wonder if there
is a way to advertise an anti-war march that does not come off too radically? Maybe the “march of near-concern?”
No, I don’t imagine that my friend really thought this march per se was too extreme. Rather, he thinks that
marching is too extreme.

This is a pervasive mentality in America and particularly at Davidson. It is paralyzing us. And it’s not just limited
to this particular form of political expression. We are frozen over; we’re conditioned not to take action. I still question,
at least at Davidson, if this attitude is a virtue or a vice. We have read our history books. No
matter how wonderful we think the early 60s were, we are unable to forget the late 60s and 70s, when
the spirit of unity and positive action was destroyed by violent particularity. Few students came out to march. So we
are cautious. We ask questions first, or some of us do. This isn’t a bad thing. I do not decry
good thinking. God knows we could use some of that. The problem is that, at least at Davidson, our thinking
is rarely followed by action. Sure, we will give our time to good causes, but those beyond our immediate community
are rarely engaged. Why? “Beats me” is probably not a good answer and would make for a pretty impotent editorial.
Maybe it’s because we don’t want to be seen as “that guy (or girl).” I’m having “that guy” misgivings even
as I write this. Maybe it’s because we don’t think it’s productive to protest; it’s one-sided or a dialogue killer.
Or maybe we just think people who protest have to be advocating the extreme left position. I understand these arguments,
but they are unfounded. A protest is staged to forward dialogue. It is simply people coming together to say: “we
want a change.” This sort of expression can be instrumental in policy making. It becomes even more important when the
powers that be ignore the people. What impetus would our President, a second termer who doesn’t seem to understand the
term deficit, have for hurrying up his quest in Iraq? Why would the Senate reject a bill that is racist
and isolationist that may (or may not) help deal with the “immigration problem?” Political action does not imply an ultra-progressive
stance. It implies discontent and solidarity. As for self-consciousness: get over it, Davidson! The worst you would be saying is:
“I care.” Is that too extreme? In the meantime, as those who care about effecting change do nothing, our country
is being scarred. When will we decide to say something? When illegal immigrants are de facto felons? When we cut
more programs, programs that affect us, to fund the war machine? When will we thaw out of our inaction only
to find that no amount of discontent can tame this winter?

Trey Skinner ’07 is a religion major from Westport, Ct. Contact him at trskinner@davidson.edu.

Censure the right move on Bush
By LUCY HAGUE
Guest Columnist

Senator Russ Feingold’s (D-Wisconsin) effort to censure President Bush will almost certainly crash and burn. Most Republican leaders have already
dismissed the censure attempt as a partisan stunt, and Senate Democrats aren’t rushing to co-sponsor the resolution. But even if
his conservative critics are correct in claiming that Feingold is merely seeking to boost his national profile in anticipation of
a presidential bid, Feingold’s argument still holds water: President Bush clearly broke the law when he bypassed the 1978 Foreign
Service Intelligence Act and allowed warrantless wiretapping. Congress must hold the President responsible for his actions.

I’ll be honest: when the war in Iraq began, I supported President Bush’s policy of pre-emption and his plan to
remove Hussein from power. Three years ago, I was willing to trust the Bush administration’s rationale for war; I believed
the President when he claimed that Iraq represented an imminent threat to the United States’ national security and I trusted
Colin Powell when he told the United Nations that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction. Rather than being a force
for positive collaboration and cooperation, President Bush’s leadership has alienated the United States from much of the international community. Three
years later, we’ve all seen the disastrous consequences of simply trusting the President’s judgment and having faith that his administration
will make the right decisions. Iraq, though purportedly free, hovers on the brink of civil war. Osama bin Laden is
still at large. Rather than being a force for positive collaboration and cooperation, President Bush’s leadership has alienated the United
States from much of the international community.

By LANCE HARDEN
Guest Columnist

Two weeks ago, Halley Aelion wrote a Perspectives article about our need as Davidson students to respect the Honor Code
that we wrote admissions essays about and signed during freshmen orientation (“You signed it, so respect it,” Mar. 22). I
could not agree more with her points.That the students harassing Union Café workers are “behaving like spoiled kids” and that
their conduct is completely unacceptable (even if the prices do amount to stealing from us) for Davidson scholars. However, I
must take exception to her suggestion that inebriated students who steal are somehow less at fault than their sober peers
guilty of the same crime. In fact, I think that this mentality reflects a major problem among our student body.
Drunk students who steal from the Union Café (or from anyone, for that matter) are just as responsible for their
crime as their abstemious counterparts. They have made a conscious choice to drink and are therefore accountable for any actions
they take even if it is the result of a compromised decision-making state. In fact, this seems to be one
of the main reasons people binge drink: because they know they can act irresponsibly and won't be reprimanded by the
people that matter most, their peers. Anyone who has a question about this conclusion should consult Section IV of our
Code of Responsibility. Furthermore, the Code of Responsibility asks us to “live up to a higher standard of conduct” with
regard to social and sexual activity than those set by state and federal law: “Students are expected to develop social
skills and relations which are mutually beneficial and which lead to personal maturity. Social conduct is therefore to be based
upon concern for others and must conform to high standards of courtesy and propriety” (Section III). Does ripping the water
fountain off the wall on Second Irwin reflect these “high standards?”

After spending nearly a year at Davidson, I have found that many students hold their peers to different standards up
the hill than down it. While the majority of Davidson students seem to take issues of academic integrity very seriously,
they are much less likely to condemn their classmates for social or sexual misconduct. In a similar fashion, many students
treat each other much differently in class than on the court, dividing the campus community into cliques based on social
and economic status. I think the variation in standards is largely fueled by the accepted binge drinking culture we have
on campus. From my experience, students tolerate normally unacceptable behavior if the perpetrators are blackout drunk. In fact, this seems
to be one of the main reasons people binge drink: because they know they can act irresponsibly and won’t be
reprimanded by the people that matter most, their peers. Otherwise, there would be a bigger fuss about the person who
walked up (and vandalized) Walker Saik’s car, the far-too-common scene of broken community bikes thrown from Senior Apartment balconies, or
the decapitated vacuum that was dropped from one of the Sentelle hall windows this weekend.

Students would be offended by their peers’ rude, disrespectful comments directed at Union Café employees, the ever-present litter of Solo
cups and beer cans, or the foul-smelling clothing, vomit, and urine that pervades many residence halls until janitors clean it
up Monday morning. Surely these and other blatant disregards of responsibility wouldn’t persist if we universally held each other to
the same standards that we do in the classroom. After all, the Code of Responsibility, like the Honor Code, doesn’t
really mean anything if we don’t hold each other responsible for our actions in every arena of student life. Incidentally,
if you didn’t agree with my position in this column, just assume I came up with all these ideas while
I was drinking.

Lance Harden ’09 is a mathematics major from Pittsboro, N.C. Contact him at laharden@davidson.edu.

Such circumstances necessitate holding the Bush administration accountable for its mistakes. The President’s shortcomings clearly don’t justify increasing executive power.
Simply put, “staying the course” has no intrinsic value if it’s the wrong course to take. The war on terrorism
may call for a considered calculation of the value of freedoms compared to public safety, but terrorism is in no
way a blanket justification for dismissing established law. The FSIA provides for situations requiring immediate action; the President’s contention that
officials don’t always have time to seek a warrant through existing channels is totally irrelevant. Merely “investigating” the warrantless wiretapping
program is insufficient; like the old adage, Congress gave Bush an inch, and he took a mile.

Should we believe conservative leaders such as Senator Bill Frist (R-Tennessee), who claims that Feingold’s effort to censure President Bush
makes America less safe? Only if we expect a wartime Congress to serve as a rubber-stamp body for the president’s
particular ideology. We should not make the mistake of conflating defense of the president with defense of the nation. By
refusing to censure the President, Congressional leaders are choosing politics above principles. I’m tired of hearing that I’m unpatriotic and
anti-American if I don’t support the President. When will Congress put defending truth and liberty above partisan battles? I’m tired
of a Congress that cedes the President more and more authority based on his dubious claim of needing to stop
terrorists. If President Bush refuses to stop violating FSIA, he should be censured. Rather than send a message of support
to terrorists, the censure resolution will send a message to the President that ordinary Americans want a proactive administration that
protects civil liberties. It appears that the current administration cares so little for American freedoms that it will create shortcuts
to steamroll ordinary citizens’ rights. Before we attempt to spread freedom and democracy in other nations, we should ensure that
our own government will uphold these ideals at home. How much more freedom can we afford to give up?

Luci Hague '08 is a Russian major from Silver Spring, Md. Contact her at luhague@davidson.edu.
