THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2006 7

Returning students share perspectives on study abroad

By KATIE HUNTER
Arts & Living Editor

Only weeks after their return home from countries across the globe, 143 students have come back to Davidson for the
spring semester. After studying abroad on programs ranging from a few months to a year, many of these students have
returned with changed attitudes, feelings, and perceptions of Davidson and the surrounding world.

Many factors contributed to students’ individual decisions to go abroad, with the most common being the chance to experience another
culture. Another popular factor was the opportunity to improve language skills. Jessica Straus ’07 claimed that the chance to “take
a break from Davidson” helped her make the decision to study abroad last fall. She chose to go to Barcelona,
Spain, based on her Spanish-speaking skills and desire to live in a city. Emily Kota ’07, on the other hand,
chose to study at the University of Christchurch in New Zealand, where she said she was able to “gain a
deeper insight into the country and culture” by speaking the same native tongue as the locals.

Before departing, most students said they experienced a combination of feelings of anxiousness and excitement. Meredith Prasse ’07 said she
“felt like a deer in the headlights.”

“I had no idea what Denmark was like, had never been outside of the U.S. before, and I had no
idea whose house I was going to be living in for four months,” she said. Prasse also discussed the impact
that her choice of program had on her experience. “I chose Denmark’s International Studies (DIS) program, which was very well-structured,”
she said, “but almost too academically challenging for an abroad program.”

Most students, however, felt their study abroad program to be less rigorous academically than Davidson. Merab Faulkner ’07 said she
found the courses offered by the Wells College in Florence program, attended by several other Davidson students, to be fairly
easy. Less academic rigor in a program allowed many students the chance to travel more, which many cited as a
major plus.

Students’ opinions of their programs, in terms of rigor and overall organization, ranged from approving to highly critical. While Sarah
Boyce ’07 loved Butler University’s program in Edinburgh, Scotland, fellow junior Ida Bastiaens, who studied in Chile under the School
for International Training, found that the “disorganization and poor structure of the program” inhibited her success academically. Most students identified
both positive and negative aspects of their programs, especially related to the quality of courses.

Director of the Dean Rusk International Studies Program Chris Alexander said that “choosing the correct type of program” is often
more important than the place one chooses to study. “Find a program that is well-suited for your needs and do
a lot of research,” he said.

Irrespective of their program of choice, students extended the “study” aspect of being abroad far beyond the classroom, taking advantage
of arranged activities and free time to travel and attend cultural events. From treks through Malaysian jungles to wine tastings
in Florence, their experiences ranged from the exotic to the extraordinary. For instance, Eric Smith ’07 celebrated Thanksgiving dinner at
the U.S. Embassy in Prague. These experiences are what truly shaped students’ perceptions of the world.

“Americans are always the loudest people in the room,” Smith said of his stay in Prague. Natalie Dennis ’07 realized
“how much Americans take for granted” during her time in Adelaide, Australia. “Things were less accessible without a car, and
there were not fast-food restaurants and shops on every street corner in the cities there like there are in this
country,” she said.

So, after having snorkeled in the South China Sea, hiked the Great Wall of China, and explored the ruins of
Machu Picchu, these students have returned to Davidson with a broader perspective and a deeper appreciation for the world beyond
their own borders.Sea and attended operas for fewer than two American dollars, how are students readjusting back to life in
the States? Becoming reacquainted with Davidson has been difficult for some students, especially considering the differences in stress and pace
between life in their study abroad location and life at the college. “Australians were much more relaxed about their work,
their politics and the world around them than we Americans,” said Lee Barrow ’07, who studied in Perth, Australia. While
many were eager to share stories and reminisce about their time abroad, most seemed happy to be back, citing the
chance to be back among friends, family, and familiar faculty. Some have mixed feelings about coming back, though. According to
Ross Rosenstein ’07, “everything great about being abroad, including being someplace great, with new friends and a different workload, is
taken away once you return.” Despite difficulties adjusting to Davidson life, all returning students endorsed studying abroad as an experience
one is sure to remember for a lifetime.

ELIZABETH IRELAND: BOLIVIA

Elizabeth enjoys the SunGate in Tiwanaku, Bolivia. Elizabeth spent the fall semester in Cochabamba, Bolivia through the School for International
Training. At the end of the program, she independently worked with lawyers who defend children in cases of sexual abuse
for a study of Bolivia’s judicial process. More than fifty percent of Bolivia's population is indigenous, so she was one
of few people who lived in or traveled to a different society. “I won’t forget what it was like to
have the eyes of thirty children focused on me instead of the television,” Elizabeth said, after relating a story of
a trip to watch one of the few televisions in a small village. When asked about the greatest difference between
Bolivia and America, she said that “The pace is really different... it’s like, if you are tired... go to bed.
It’s just so different from Davidson.” Elizabeth’s experience with the Bolivians’ perceptions of her might surprise some. Instead of observing
anti-American sentiment, she found herself often correcting locals’ idealistic view of America. Elizabeth also said it was the little things,
such as everyday bus rides, that made her stay in Bolivia especially memorable.

--By Mike Wellman, Arts & Living Editor

School offers support for reverse culture shock

By KATIE HUNTER
Arts & Living Editor

Returning to campus after studying abroad can be a major lifestyle readjustment, especially as students attempt to reintegrate into a
social and academic climate much different from the one they have just experienced. So, what is the campus community doing
to help students readjust to life at Davidson? The Dean Rusk International Studies Program attempts to ease students’ return before
they even re-enter the United States by sending out a letter to parents alerting them to the “possibility and reality
of reverse culture shock” and offering “suggestions about ways of helping their child cope.” Caroline Ortmayer, the Dean Rusk Study
Abroad Program Coordinator, says that letters and program evaluation forms are sent to students three weeks into the semester. “In
it, we give hints on how to deal with re-entry issues, and remind students of the availability of the counseling
center,” she said. “We also enclose an extensive list of internationally-related activities on campus and in the community.” In addition
to letters, the Dean Rusk Program also puts on a workshop one day each semester for returning students. The program,
“Coming Home From a Foreign Land,” allows students to share and discuss their experiences, as well as their feelings about
coming home. Dr. Chris Alexander, Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Dean Rusk Program, finds that returning
students often have changed world views. “Returning students become a lot more thoughtful about America’s place in the world,” he
said. “Many also become frustrated by the lack of freedom they have when they return to campus compared to that
they had while away.” Another concern of students returning from studying abroad is housing, which Director of Residence Life Leslie
Marsicano admitted can be a challenge. “More students typically study abroad during the fall semester than during the spring semester,
so there are usually more returnees than spaces opened up by people going abroad.” “We typically make up the difference
by granting off-campus permissions and turning lounges into bedrooms,” she said. This year, Davidson rented eight off-campus houses to accommodate
students returning from abroad, and even resorted to asking some returning upperclassmen to live on freshman halls. “Two junior women
agreed to live in a double in the basement of Belk,” said Marsicano. Most students, despite the difficulties of returning,
find benefits in reuniting with friends and a familiar setting. As Sarah Madison Davenport ’07 put it, “I’m glad to
be back at a school where I know people and have a faculty that actually cares about me.”

TOYOTA

Hyper Williams ‘07 shows his spirit in Florence, Italy.
