The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

@ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 2006

First CLASS
U.S. POSTAGE PAID
Permit #1
Davidson, NC

VOLUME 97, NUMBER 21

OXFAM HUNGER BANQUET

Engage for Change sponsored the Oxfam hunger banquet last Wednesday in the 900 room. Participants were assigned to either the poor or the rich group. The poor group received a simple meal of rice, while the rich group ate a catered meal. Left: Mickey Hubbard ’08 enjoys a meal of chicken and green beans. Right: Tessa Davis ‘06 spoons rice onto her plate.

Office of Admission accepts 955 students

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

The Office of Admission and Financial Aid sent 955 Regular Decision acceptance letters to applicants last Friday, offering them spots in the class of 2010.

This year’s acceptance rate is 29 percent, up from 25.8 percent last year.

By May 1, the acceptance deadline, admissions officers said they hope to assemble a class of 460 freshmen. Already, 181 students have been accepted to the class of 2010 via Early Decision Plans I and II.

This year’s freshman class will be the first to which a new student loan cap will apply.

While students could accrue up to $19,000 in student debt in the past, the new policy allows students to take out only $3,000 worth of loans each year for a maximum of $12,000 worth of student loan debt upon graduation.

The new policy will apply to all current students beginning next year and will increase the amount of grant money they receive by the same amount that it decreases their loans.

Although last year’s freshman class exceeded the target number of 460, the admissions office said it is being cautious not to oversubscribe the class of 2010 because the demand for on-campus housing is increasing, and Duke dormitory will be closed for renovations during the 2006-2007 academic year.

Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid Chris Gruber said that, while building a freshman class, the Admissions staff must consider a wide variety of factors, the first of which is a candidate’s potential to achieve success while at Davidson.

“I want to admit a student,” he said, “but, more importantly, I want to graduate a student.”

After considering potential for success, academic achievement, talents and character, Admissions looks to accept students from a variety of ethnic, socioeconomic and cultural backgrounds.

See Admission, page 4

Sophomores, juniors to live in Martin Court next year

By EMILY KOTA
Senior Staff Writer

Of the 342 students living in Martin Court, the “senior apartments,” next year, 24 are rising sophomores and 18 are rising juniors.

“This has been a wacky year,” said Leslie Marsicano, Associate Dean of Students and Director of Residence Life. “Every year, some underclassmen apply to live in Martin Court, but this year, the long shots really paid off.”

Last year, there were no all-junior apartments in Martin Court, although in previous years it has been routine for several apartments to house a combination of juniors and seniors and several apartments to house all juniors.

While some underclassmen withdrew their applications for Martin Court housing when they realized the difference in cost, it did not deter most interested underclassmen.

According to RLO’s Lottery Handbook online, the rate for a Martin Court apartment is $5,675 a year, while a double is $4,536 a year.

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Woody Allen: comedic genius see ARTS, PAGE 5

Sophomores and juniors will be living in the senior apartments.

RLO took steps to give seniors priority to Martin Court.

“I am under the impression that all seniors who wanted apartments and submitted applications got them,” Marsicano said.

Elizabeth Books ’06, a Martin Court building manager this year, has some concerns about underclassmen living in senior apartments.

“I think it removes from the culture that is supposed to be in senior apartments,” Books said. “As a building manager, I expect that most people living in senior apartments are 21. Underclassmen living there will make alcohol issues harder to control.”

Some rising seniors are also concerned.

“I’m irate,” Natalie Dennis ’07 said. “I think it’s a rite of passage that sophomores should live in

See Housing, page 2

Keeley named VP for College Relations

By SARAH BALEY
Staff Writer

Former Director of Development Eileen Keeley ’89 was appointed Davidson’s new Vice President for College Relations on Mar. 13.

Keeley’s responsibilities as Vice President for College Relations include overseeing College fundraising, College communications, the Office of Alumni Relations, the College radio station and donor relations and events.

“The mission broadly is to facilitate relationships with outside constituencies - mainly alumni, parents and friends of the College - and do what we can to strengthen the bonds that exist between those groups and [Davidson],” Keeley said.

Several considerations encouraged Keeley to apply for the position of Vice President.

“Partly, I was ready for another challenge,” Keeley said, “but a lot of it has to do with my affection for Davidson.”

Keeley believes that her former job in Alumni Relations will be helpful as she takes on her new responsibilities.

“One of the ways I think it will help me is that, certainly on the fundraising side, I know people’s strengths and how talented they are,” Keeley said. “I also have 16 years of relationships built with alumni, parents and friends of the College.”

Despite her familiarity with the fundraising staff and outside constituencies, Keeley acknowledges

See Keeley, page 4

Historically black sorority search continues PAGE 4

ABC’s Studying the intricacies of “Lost” see YOWL, PAGE 12

Mid-majors deserve attention see SPORTS, PAGE 13