THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 2006 13

Eight moves for ’Cats to keep on dancing
By WILSON McCrory
Sports Editor Emeritus

It’s true that the 15/2 matchup is hardly the upset special, as only four 15 seeds have ever won since the expansion of the tournament field. You almost certainly won’t see many picking Davidson over Ohio State this year either, but the Wildcats do have the potential to send the Buckeyes on the short trip back to Columbus. It will take as close to the perfect game as Davidson can play, as the Wildcats don’t have much margin for error against the Big Ten conference champ, but there is a recipe for the upset:

1. Dial in ~ In all honesty, this should be goals one, two, three, four, etc., because Dials is the anchor of this team in so many ways. While the statistics are modest for a likely All-American, they do not do justice to the balance Dials provides a Buckeye team that lacks any other legitimate frontcourt threat on either end. Dials has done well to stay out of major foul trouble throughout the season, but the fall-off between the Big Ten Player of the Year and every other post option is severe. After Dials, Matt Sylvester and Ivan Harris would likely be the next to step up, but both are much more comfortable roaming beyond the arc than banging on the blocks. Davidson should attack the basket early and often with guard penetration and post entry and hope that it can force Dials to the bench with foul trouble. At the very least, the Wildcats must work Dials relentlessly in an effort to tire him and reduce his effectiveness. Ian Johnson ’06 has had big games against premier big men in the past, most notably scoring 19 points against Shelden Williams and Duke earlier this season, and he will need to come up big in his match-up with Dials.

2. Pick up the pace ~ Ohio State has only 10 scholarship players this year, and only seven played for the Buckeyes in the Big Ten Championship against Iowa last Sunday. While Ohio State has a stable of guards to run up and down the floor, the Buckeyes’ lack of post depth could become apparent in the later stages of the game if the Wildcats can maintain their preferred pace throughout. Coach McKillop loves to play the up-tempo game, and point-men Kenny Grant ’06 and Jason Richards ’06 have shown the ability to handle the up-and-down action.

What Jay Bilas thinks of Davidson basketball
By WILSON McCrory
Sports Editor Emeritus

Do you think the playing field in college basketball has evened out between High-Major and Mid-Major programs?
I wouldn’t say it’s a more even playing field for Mid-Majors now, but they can be more competitive than they were 20 years ago because [Mid-Majors] have seniors. Therefore, a team like Davidson that has a group of seniors can do well. Big programs are still going to get more talented players, so it’s just cyclical. You can’t expect that kind of success every year.

After watching Davidson play this year, what would you say are the team’s strengths coming into March?
Davidson is a really well-coached team that knows how to play the game. Ian [Johnson] and Brendan [Winters], for example, are guys that really know the game and they’re skilled. Coach McKillop is a great coach, and they play the right way. Also, Davidson is a tested team that played a great schedule with games against Syracuse, Duke, and North Carolina, and they took care of business in the conference and in the tournament. I’d rather have a group of quality seniors than a group of more talented younger players. Davidson has a group that is really good.

What do people in college basketball think of Coach McKillop?
Basketball people know that Coach McKillop is the real thing. One thing that he does not do is self-promote. He goes to work every day and spends his time with the game. He’s one of the most respected coaches in college basketball and one of the most well-known in Europe. He has good players but he’s technically skilled and understands how to play.... If I were making the decision as an AD, he’d be at the top of my list of coaches.

What other teams do you see as potential spoilers in the NCAA tournament?
Teams like Wichita State and Nevada. I thought Western Kentucky was pretty good until they lost in the conference tournament. I also like Northern Iowa, teams from the MAC and George Mason.

How important do you think it is to have a guy like Brendan Winters, an All-American, who can put teams on his back like he did against Chattanooga in the championship game?
Brendan is a really good player, and he’s a senior who’s been through it all. He’s not going to be on the Wooden list, but he’s the type of player that can win you games.

By the Numbers
4: Times a 15 seed has beaten a 2 seed in the NCAA tournament.
8: Hours it takes todrive to Dayton, Ohio, site of the Wildcats’ first-round game.

1: Hours away Davidson would have been had the game been in Greensboro, where local neighbor Winthrop was instead sent as a 15 seed.

5: Points that separated Davidson and Ohio State in last match-up in 2002 NCAA first round.

18: Points scored by then-freshman Buckeye Terence Dials in 2002 game versus Davidson.

3. Blanket the three
While Davidson actually shoots at a better clip from long range, Ohio State features some of the best three-point shooters in the nation and Davidson must limit the Buckeyes’ looks from outside. Jamar Butler, J.J. Sullinger, and Je’Kel Foster all shoot better than 40 percent from downtown and Davidson has allowed opponents to shoot an uncharacteristically high 35.2 percent from three this season. Focusing on the three will allow Dials more room to roam in the paint, but the Buckeyes have shown time and again that their weapon of choice comes from beyond the arc.

4. Window washers
Davidson has been strong on the boards all year, out-rebounding opponents by more than five per game. Boris Meno ’08 and Thomas Sander ’08 both had great weekends in Charleston cleaning up the boards, and guard Brendan Winters ’06 is also strong on the glass. Ohio State, on the other hand, has out-rebounded its opponents by less than one board per game, and only two Buckeye players average more than five. If Davidson can attack the glass and keep up its pace of nearly 12 offensive rebounds per game during the regular season, then the Wildcats can generate the second-chance opportunities that frustrate and tire a defense over the course of the game.

5. Keep it close early
Davidson will be in enemy territory against Ohio State, as Dayton is only a few hours from the Buckeyes’ Columbus campus. Ohio State will likely have a heavy advantage in fan support, and an early run could be tough to withstand if the Buckeyes can get the crowd behind them from the start. If Davidson can keep it close then the Wildcats might be able to neutralize the crowd and take advantage of the Cinderella sentiment as time wears on. If not, it might be a long afternoon for the Wildcats.

6. Ride Winters
While Winters has struggled somewhat this year, he saved his best for last against UT-Chattanooga in the SoCon Championship, netting a career-high 33 points and carrying the Wildcats to the victory. While Davidson needs contributions from every position to have a chance against the Buckeyes, Winters has star potential as a returning All-American and must have another huge game to open up the offense for the rest of the team.

7. Re-ignite Morton
Morton has provided plenty of energy and offensive firepower off the bench this season, and he practically put the Wildcats on his back over the final few weeks of the regular season as the rest of the offense seemed to stall. In Chattanooga, however, the notoriously streaky senior failed to find much rhythm from outside, hitting just two of 13 threes. Fellow senior Matt McKillop ’06 picked up the pace by netting 10 of 18 treys and earning First-team tournament honors, but Davidson needs the hot-shooting Morton to return as well.

8. Cheer it up
Support in the stands was key during the Chattanooga game. If Davidson fans come out in force and keep up the decibel level, they can balance out the Ohio State fans that are sure to otherwise dominate the bleachers.

Villanova (3.5-8) Philadelphia, PA (116) Monmouth/Hampton March 17-18
(19) Wisconsin (19-10) (8) Nevada (27-5) Salt Lake City, UT (22) Montana (23-6) March 16-18
(4) Boston (13) Pacific (24-7) MINNEAPOLIS (6) Oklahoma (26-8) Jacksonville, FL March 16-18
(11) UW-Milwaukee (21-8) (13) Florida (27-6) (14) South Alabama (24-5) (7) Georgetown (21-9)

hours. anyone in a Davidson jersey? and five seed in a span of 72 hours. representing the school on air.

--Mid-Majors: The Missouri Valley Conference got three at-large spots in the Field of 65, and Utah State and Air Force were surprise additions to the Dance card.

--Dayton sub-regional: Site plays host to Davidson, local Buckeyes, defending National Champion North Carolina and National Semifinalist Michigan State, all in a span of 12

--The alley oop: When was the last time you saw a true SportsCenter-worthy play from

--Gerry McNamara: Propelled Syracuse from the outside-looking-in to Big East champ

Who’s Not:
--Greensboro: Lost out on having both Duke and North Carolina in favor of Tennessee, which has lost four of its past six games and still earned a two seed.

--Cincinnati: Had the fifth toughest schedule in the nation and likely lost out on NCAA bid because of McNamara’s desperation trey in Big East tournament.

--Wildcat logo: Davidson makes ESPN look like it’s using copy-and-paste clip art when

--Craig Littlepage: NCAA committee chair got lambasted during the Selection Show by Jim Nantz and Billy Packer and has faced a lot of criticism for this year’s brackets.

Dayton, OH (10) Northern Iowa (23-0) March 17-20
(2) Ohio State (25-9) (108) Oral Roberts (29-09)

Who’s Hot: