THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2006 7

The Snacks played to a packed house in the Union on Saturday night, ending up with second place honors in
the Third Annual Battle of the Bands.

Third Annual Battle of the Bands

By MIKE WELLMAN & KATIE HUNTER
Arts & Living Editors

The Union rocked last Saturday, and for once the usual late-night quesadilla stampede wasn’t to blame. Students came out in
droves to WALT’s Third Annual Battle of the Bands to support friends, take in the show, and enjoy free food.
Emcees Paige Taylor ’08 and Nick Fell ’08 kicked things off at 9 p.m., introducing the J. Knowles Blues Band,
the first in a lineup of seven previously-auditioned and talented groups.

With guitar amps wailing and drum sticks flailing, the Battle ensued, lasting well into the night. Whether with familiar songs
or original tunes, the Battle’s bands rocked, using instruments that ranged from basic bass guitars to harmonicas and mandolins.

Fired up from all the musical intensity, students cooled down during the evening’s set breaks, gulping sodas and grabbing candy
tossed into the crowd by WALT members. Several spectators won free t-shirts and other prizes after showing off their own
skills in music trivia contests, which kept them in the mood to hear more great tunes.

Featuring high notes and highlights, like the rockin’ return of last year’s winners The Blue Barnstormers and newcomer Oslo Report’s
killer trumpet solos, the Battle was truly a clash of talented titans. Three hours, seven bands, and hundreds of chicken
wings later, however, three bands emerged with the night’s top honors. While The Snacks stole the show with their original
style and the Shenanigans brought the crowd to their feet at the Battle’s end, it was the Tumblin’ Dice who
ultimately rolled to a cool $300 first prize finish.

The Tumblin’ Dice

Alex Miller, Vocals
George McDaniel ’05, Guitar
Cory Skipper, Guitar
Chas Willimon ’02, Bass
Jim Nash, Harmonica
Brandon Kincaid, Drums

“Cory Skipper, Brandon Kincaid and I were in a band previously in the late summer and early fall of last
year,” said guitarist George McDaniel ’05.

McDaniel and Skipper brought in Chas Willimon ’02 upon the departure of their original bassist. In December, Alex Miller and
Jim Nash joined the Dice, which now consists entirely of Davidson’s technical staff. They often perform on open mic nights
on Tuesday nights at Saeed's in Cornelius and have been a steady fixture at the BrickHouse Tavern on Monday nights.

THE SHENANIGANS

Preston Davis ‘06, Lead vocals
Jeff McKinney ’06, Backup Vocals, harmonica, mandolin
Brent McCormick ’06, Lead Guitar
Patrick Coman ’06, Rhythm Guitar
Usman Salahuddin ’06, Drums
Virgil Price ’07, Bass

“After a better than average Karaoke night, Preston Davis, soon to be known as Tom Foolery, was approached by Jeff
McKinney, soon to be Folk Shenanigan, to begin playing Bob Dylan covers,” joked Davis ’06, the band’s lead singer. Brent
McCormick joined soon thereafter, followed by the rest of the Shenanigan cast, including Salahuddin ’06, Coman ’06, and Price ’07.

With their experience, professionalism, talent, and a mean harmonica, this band rolled away with the Battle’s top honors. As Taylor
Ansley ‘07 put it, “they know how to perform.”

“They had the strongest dynamic,” added Brian Creech ‘05, “and were the most comfortable playing together.”

“Some of the other bands used trumpets and violins, which was cool too, but this band was really well-practiced,” said
Ansley. Added Alice Neumann ‘06, “They had a sense of professionalism that the other bands lacked.”

THE SNACKS

Dave Burr ’07, Guitar/Vocals
Wilson McBee ’06, Keyboard
Joe Segal ’06, Drums/Backup vocals
Will Stoudemire ’06

“Dave, Wilson, and I have been playing together for a while,” said Joe Segal. “We brought in Segal just before
the Battle. We were all friends first, and then bandmates,” said Segal.

“They had the best style of all the bands. It was really unique to them,” said Ansley, who also called
Burr “an incredible singer.”

The crowd appeal of the band was one of the deciding factors of Tom Foolery, as they had the crowd
on their feet and dancing in the last song.

“They weren’t as strong musically as some of the other bands,” said Ansley, “but they definitely had the strongest reaction
from the audience.”

“They sang fun songs and had a lot of give and take with the crowd,” added Neumann. Brian Creech noted
that the band was “strong and fun-loving.”
