THE DAVIDSONIAN HUMOR _WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2006

Retribution: Union Café employees begin stealing from students

A former Union Café employee has leaked information to the Yowl that suggests the Café is pursuing a policy of actively stealing from students. The employee, wishing to remain anonymous, has told the Yowl that the Café has already implemented many new policies which use deceit or trickery to remove funds from student CatCards and will seek new methods in the future.

“I think the Union steals from the students because it feels it gets ripped off,” the former employee said. “The students steal from us.”

As described by our source, some of the methods used by the Café were to raise the prices of food without posting the change and to add superfluous small charges, such as tea bags and plastic containers at checkout.

“One of their trickiest methods is to first have a cashier delay the students by leaving the counter in order to restock the Snapples or clean the coffee station,” said the former employee. “Then, while the students are distracted and in a line, another employee picks all of their pockets.”

While the Café has not admitted to these charges, Café manager Roy White offered some justification for such a policy. “We see losses every day on small items such as tea bags and candy bars, which students either steal from us or don’t quite pay the fair price for,” said White. “So you can see how it would be justifiable for us to steal these losses back from the students.”

The anonymous employee also reported that the Café was in the process of developing new methods to further this policy.

Messages from the Yowl inbox

Dear Yowl Editors,

I was wondering why all your staff are women. It seems to me that the lack of gender balance represents discrimination. Men are funny, too. We have a right to print our material in your pages. I am disappointed that an organization like yours, which excludes people from its ranks, exists on campus.

Sincerely,
Andrew Dreyfus ’09

Dear Mr. Dreyfus,

The fact that men choose not to join the Yowl staff is unfortunate, but it is not due to any discrimination on our part. We encourage writers of most genders to submit articles and join us at staff meetings. The Yowl chooses to practice equality (except when dealing with terrorists). Perhaps the men of Davidson should ask themselves why they do not write for the Yowl, rather than why the Yowl does not have male writers.

Dear Yowl staff,

I’m having trouble with my internet connection in my room; Clean Access keeps telling me I need to update my definitions or something, and whenever I try it doesn’t let me connect to the website that has all the definitions. I’ve tried everything I can think of, and I’m getting really frustrated.

Thanks for the help,
Megan Adler ‘09

Dear Ms. Adler,

Unfortunately for you, the Yowl does not use computers. We print stories with our minds.

Hey Yowl Guys,

Do me a favor. When you smell “the odor of marijuana” coming from my room, stop calling the police. Just do what I do and light some incense. Or buy a plug-in.

Much love,
Your Upstairs Neighbor

Dear Upstairs Neighbor,

Maybe you didn’t get the hint, but have you ever heard of an invitation? Puff, puff, pass, man. Puff, puff, pass.

Dear Yowl,

I was most distressed to read the ad you ran two weeks ago stating that “Most Davidson College students wear pants at least four times a week.”before washing them.” This is a serious issue that faces our campus and I would like to see a more detailed article addressing the problem. Sincerely, William Mayes ’08

Dear Mr. Mayes,

You are right. Not washing pants regularly is a serious problem at Davidson, one which often remains unheard in public. Many questions revolve around it: how does this affect the Laundry Services’ ability to serve the community? Should we be concerned about health issues? What does this say about the average Davidson student’s mental condition? We intend to run a piece that looks seriously at all of these questions in next week’s edition. And please, Davidson, wash your pants.

Dear Yowl,

This is a cease and desist order on behalf of Jeffrey, the Mailman Duck. Your use of his image for your Yowl mailbag is both unauthorized and illegal. We demand that you pull his image from your upcoming issue and any future pointless mailbags you may run in the future. Jeffrey is very conscious of his image and does not want it defiled in trash like this.

Sincerely,
Thaddeus Millington, III, Attorney at Law

Dear Jeffrey the Mailman Duck,

What happened to you, man? You used to be cool. I can’t believe you let the mail go to your head.

A prototype for a robot “employee” code named Student Theft Enforcer and Arbitrary Line Zapping Operational Robot (STEALZOR) was being developed. It was the employee’s failure to program the robot with certain unethical aspects that led to the dismissal. “The idea is that STEALZOR will periodically ‘zap’ students in line and exiting the café to ensure they aren’t stealing things. If the student hasn’t paid for an item yet, STEALZOR will start beeping and flashing,” said the former employee. “What will not be made public is that STEALZOR will also have the ability to arbitrarily ‘zap’ CatCards inside pockets or purses and withdraw money from them.”

Many students have been suspicious of deceitful Café policies for a while. “Sometimes I will order four different cheeses on my sandwich, but the Café charges me for four different sandwiches,” said Veronica Case ’06. “Last time I checked, a sandwich consisted of more than just cheese. Often, it has bread as well.”

“Have you ever actually checked how many ounces of liquid the cups hold?” asked Trent Stewart ’07. “The 32-ounce cup really only holds 28 ounces of soda, so they are essentially lying in order to trick you out of four ounces of soda.”

“One little known fact,” said Tiffany Dawson ’06, “is that a quesadilla actually consists of eight parts. So when you check half a quesadilla you should be entitled to four quesadilla slices, but the Café tricks you out of those extra slices.”

Further reports of Café employees stealing from students have surfaced in the past. Wendy Greene ’08 claimed that last week, Union Café workers broke into her dorm room and stole $60 out of her purse and her U2 iPod. “I was coming out of the shower and walking back down the hall when all of a sudden I saw two women dressed in Café uniforms burst out of my room carrying my iPod and some cash,” said Greene. “They sprinted down the stairwell and I wasn’t able to follow them because I was in a towel and carrying my shower-caddy, but I was sure they were Café employees.”

PATTERSON COURT POETRY still on in WT DONS. WAM MOT (1) / HahHg COMCHE Ol FIN FFOML AIS MOUTH,