8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

CatCard service extended to the Korner Pub
See Page 4

RSC to perform ‘Frankenstein: The Rock Opera’ next year
See Page 5

A Fake Easter Bunny exposed
See Page 10

Banner paper prices rise to 15 cents a sheet
SEE PAGE 12

Entire fraternity gets plastered on Wednesday night
See Page 14

Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Sucks: Bobby Kenner
Jeff Yeakel

Doesn’t Suck: Nathan Bradshaw
Brent McCormick

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editors at bokenner@davidson.edu or jeyeakel@davidson.edu.

Note: The Yow! is the humor section of the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

They took our jobs

On Tuesday, the college administration announced that the charters of all Patterson Court organizations had been revoked. The houses will be demolished to make way for the new Duke Family Medical Center. The decision came after a long-fought battle between members of Patterson Court and the school’s administrators.

“Patterson Court has been a huge liability for the school ever since that goose incident,” said college president Wendy Greene. “It has been a constant source of problems.”

Administrators felt Patterson Court had a negative influence on the attractiveness of the college to both current members of the college community and to prospective students.

“Prospective students who learned about Patterson Court’s bad reputation became upset and generally thought worse of the college,” said Dean of Admissions Rodney Houser. “The students felt that the interior design of most Patterson Court houses lacked pleasing aesthetic qualities.”

To date, the administration has adopted a policy of targeting individual houses for their aesthetic failings. Several houses were placed on official probation for not following the spatial rules and regulations for furniture placement.

“We tried many times to renovate court houses and get the members of organizations to conform to our new interior design policies,” said Associate Dean Jane Romano. “The more we investigated, however, the more violations of these rules we found. The corruption of interior design principles was so widespread that we were forced to shut down Patterson Court entirely.”

The new design policies were instated in Spring ’03 following the ‘goose incident,’ in which one fraternity attempted to mount a stuffed goose over their fireplace, a direct violation of the existing interior design rules. Patterson Court organizations were given three years to comply with these new regulations, which, according to

The Sigma Eta Psi house was found in violation of interior design rule 2.34: Placing a ping-pong table within four feet of an exterior wall.

According to many school and campus safety officials, Davidson’s stray cat population has become a problem, and the problem isn’t going away. An outside agency has been called in to address the problem.

“It’s a little ironic that we have too many ‘cats’ on campus,” Dean of Students Dwayne Richards said earlier this week. “Despite the campus’s strong desire to provide an environmentally friendly atmosphere, these ‘wild cats’ need to go.”

Catsafe Industries, maker of the Cat Carrier series, is looking to help solve the campus cat overpopulation. Eddie Harden, the Catsafe representative in charge of the Davidson evaluation, has high hopes for success.

“People normally think cats are pretty cute. They're dainty and soft, and they purr and lick milk from bowls. People don’t realize they go through garbage, steal from the Union Cafe, and sell illicit drugs to schoolchildren. And they do it all with a sinister smile on their face,” he said.

Both Harden and Richards think this may be the safest and most effective solution to the current problem.Crisis on campus. “Once they run out of food sources, they start attacking students and small children,” Harden said. “Three stray cats can digest an entire adult male in about six hours.”

School officials have yet to make a final decision on Catsafe’s offer, but the debate over the cruel and unusual treatment of the cats is a hot-button issue on the Davidson campus. Students and faculty alike have expressed mixed opinions.

“I didn’t think the cats were a problem. I kind of liked them. They were furry and cute,” said Jamie Troyer, ’08. “I play with them all the time, and it’s super fun.” Troyer, who has a soft spot in her heart for animals, said removing the cats will not solve the problem. “They eat mice, don’t they? Do you want to eat the mice yourself?” asked Troyer.

Other students disagreed. “One time I saw a kitten drinking a saucer of milk. I thought it was cute, and it tried to bite me,” said Eric Mossier, ’06. “Who knows what could have happened? Who knows what it could have done to me?” Others agree that allowing stray cats will just lead to more stray cats, and perhaps a future invasion. “It’s going to get crazy. These cats are up to no good,” said Florence Baker, a Vail Commons employee. “I say we get those suckers before they get us.”

President Gary Snipes expects to make a final decision by the end of the week.

“The new design policies are ridiculous,” said Sigma Eta Psi member Howard Mitchell, ’06. “Not only are they convoluted and difficult to understand, but they actually lead to more abuses of design principles. Because the rules are so rigid, if students feel the need to exercise their creative design impulses, they have to go to off-campus houses or sample wallpaper swatches in secret. It is a far less healthy way to practice interior design.”

Despite student protest, the administration has officially decided to remove the current Patterson Court organizations and their houses. “With the construction of the Alvarez Campus Center and the recent renovations to Chambers and Commons, the Davidson community has come to expect more out of the interior design of our buildings,” said Romano. “Patterson Court hindered the school’s progress in this area. By removing the terrible influence of Patterson Court, not only will we beautify an ugly part of the school, but we will also eliminate the negative influence that it also had on alcohol abuse, sexual misconduct, and landscaping.”

The proposed Duke Family Medical Center will be a three-story medical center designed to help attract more potential pre-medical students to the college. “The Med Center should benefit the school far more than the Patterson Court organizations ever did,” said Chemistry professor Sheila Barnes. “Not only will it provide a steady revenue from the recent increase in students suffering from alcohol poisoning, but the interior will be designed by the famous French interior decorator Jacques d’Etat.”

“Our hope is that this whole process will get rid of Davidson’s reputation as more of a ‘party school’ than one committed to academics,” said Greene. “The corruption of interior design principles was so widespread that we were forced to shut down Patterson Court.”

“Patterson Court is currently located on a very prime spot of land right in the heart of the campus,” said Mitchell. “Just like the body, when you replace the heart of the campus, you are altering what makes it tick.”