THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2006

Jack Johnson monkeys around

By PRESTON DAVIS
Staff Writer

There is a monkey back in theatres. No, it’s not Dunston of the famed “Dunston Checks In II” with Jason
Alexander, but the lovable Curious George, now starring in a recently released film of the same name. The film is
accompanied by a soundtrack composed of songs by Hawaiian native Jack Johnson. The album, incredibly playful in its sound, fits
well with a movie about a monkey that pals around with the Man in the Yellow Hat, as voiced by
Will Ferrell. The organic sound, which relies mostly on simple guitar riffs, also mirrors the simplicity of the roots of
Curious George, who appeared as the central character in a children’s book series that began in the 1940s. Even the
sketches in the CD booklet complement the film and the simple roots of the adorable monkey. These penciled portraits depict
George getting into his typical mischief without a single expression of guilt for being his childlike self.

Some might criticize the album for its lackluster sound, claiming that Johnson’s voice is too fixed in its monotone hum.
I actually find his voice to be rather soothing and complementary to the instrumentation. As indicated in the title of
the soundtrack, “Sing-a-longs And Lullabies For The Film Curious George,” many of the songs have a soft, melodic quality. These
qualities, which are generally characteristic of lullaby ballads, are distinctive in “Wrong Turn” and, as expected, in the track “Lullaby.”

Curious George imitates Jack Johnson. Jack Johnson gets in touch with his inner child on the Curious George album.

The songs of the album do not feature any spontaneous crashes or jolts; rather, they flow smoothly, leaving out high
hats and loud cymbals. The percussion relies mainly on bongos, brushes, the occasional snare, and shakers that lure the listener
into relaxation. I’ve found that listening to the album can provide a well-deserved escape from the fast-paced Davidson life, due
to its leisurely quality and smooth sound.

Because Johnson is the single source of its songs, the album is distinct as a soundtrack in that it is
not the collaborative compilation of music from various genres and artists. The music retains a common innocent thread, but the
sound is definitely typical Johnson. Nothing comes as a surprise, as Johnson retains that smooth, restrained quality that defines him
as an artist. He does call on old friends to make appearances on the album, however. Duets with G. Love,
Matt Costa, and Ben Harper add a little more flavor to the soundtrack. Additionally, Johnson performs a cover of the
White Stripes’ “We’re Going to be Friends,” which was one of the songs on the “Napoleon Dynamite” soundtrack.

The childlike quality of this particular album is what separates it from his others. Johnson, a new father, supplies an
appropriate voice for the mischievous monkey, which lends to the album’s playful tone. His sing-a-longs amplify the true essence of
Curious George; a childlike joy based on having innocent fun. Three songs even take their lyrics straight from Sesame Street,
with one promoting the values of sharing, another providing a soothing lullaby, and the last discussing the importance of the
3 Rs, “reduce, reuse, and recycle.” This overlap of education and entertainment makes the album unique, as it both excites
and enlightens younger listeners.

While it undoubtedly has universal appeal, the soundtrack is tailored to the sensibilities of a child, who will likely find
his or her cartoon reflection in this curious monkey and his adventures. For lovers of both Johnson’s sound and Curious
George, this album is sure to please.

Also featuring a performance by the Davidson College Concert Choir
Wednesday, February 22 @ 8pm.
Tyler-Tallman Hall

The Degas Quartet

Mountaineer speaks on summit and ski adventures

By ALI KARAMI-RUIZ
Staff Writer

If someone told you that it is possible to eat 5,500 calories worth of chocolate and butter per day and
lose an average...If someone told you they lost 20 pounds over the course of a few weeks, you might say
they’re crazy. But if you were skiing your way through the glacial South Pole, as mountain climber and ultramarathon runner
Stuart Smith did, you might think again. Smith, who gave a guest lecture this past Monday in Hance Auditorium, holds
the distinction of being the first American to have completed the Adventure Grand Slam (AGS). To earn this honor, one
has to reach the summit of each continent’s highest peak and travel to the North and South Poles.

A Texas native and a civil trial lawyer, Smith became interested in mountain climbing as a youth during family trips
to Colorado. In 1987, Smith conquered his first mountain, Mt. Kilimanjaro, while teaching in Kenya with his wife. Mountain number
two was Summit Aconcagua, located in Argentina. Smith reached the top of Mt. McKinley, North America’s highest peak, in 1996.
While discussing this particular experience, Smith mentioned a climber’s need to carry around 100 pounds of food for every trip.

Smith also discussed some of the common misconceptions about mountain climbing, such as the Hollywood-perpetuated exaggeration of how quickly one
can reach a mountain’s summit. “In the movie Vertical Limit, the characters climbed up K2 in three days,” said Smith,
“but it actually takes three months to climb up K2!”

Smith discussed the difficulties of trying to climb Mt. Everest, the world’s tallest peak, immediately after climbing Mt. McKinley. He
emphasized the huge difference in the level of difficulty between the two mountains. Smith suggested that climbers attempt to ascend
other mountains in Pakistan and Tibet before going up the “big one.”

Smith began his journey up to the top of Everest in March 2002. He had to wait three weeks in
base camp for suitable weather conditions, due mainly to a series of avalanches that occurred right before he began his
climb. Though every climber dreams of one day reaching the summit of Everest, Smith told the audience that his ascent
was an unpleasant experience. “With so many things that can go wrong, you climb up the mountain with a feeling
of uneasiness that only grows stronger as you reach the final parts,” he said. “If you have a pretty good
amount of oxygen, you can stay up to half an hour on the summit, but most people who do reach
it can only stay for five or ten minutes. The chances of dying are one in 29 once you start
going down.”

Smith reached the South Pole in 2004. After describing his experiences on the last three mountains, Kosciuszko, Mt. Elbrus, and
Vinson Massif, Smith talked about his adventures to the North and South Poles. In 2004, after 18 years of climbing
the world’s highest peaks, Smith decided to embark on a rigorous skiing trip to the South Pole. Smith, and a
group of five other adventurers, skied each day from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Skiing in 75-minute intervals and taking
only 15 minutes for rest, Smith required 5,500 to 6,500 calories a day to sustain himself. He still lost a
net 20 pounds by the end of the trip. “I’d even eat fruit cake,” Smith said, as he told the
audience about his futile attempts to retain weight.

Smith said his Everest trip cost nearly $30,000. Smith said his next challenge will soon be climbing Mt. Carstensz, which
is located in Indonesia.
