10 PERSPECTIVES THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 2006

Staff Editorial

A call for clarity

No member of an organization should be forced, either directly or by peer pressure, to take actions he or she
does not wish to, or to jeopardize his or her health and safety. We support completely the effort to uphold
these rights and to protect Davidson students. However, we are concerned that past investigations have, in some instances, been marred
by the failure to protect student confidentiality and the ambiguous use of the Honor Code.

Answering questions that may incriminate fraternity brothers is intimidating, especially for new members. Circulating a student’s testimony among fraternity members
without assuring anonymity may cause that individual to be ostracized for being forthcoming with administrators. The administration would be wise
to adopt a policy that consistently protects the confidentiality of sources during investigations.

The use of the Honor Code during investigations is a more hazy issue. At the beginning of interviews, administrators clarify
that the investigation is “official college business” and that the student is honor-bound to answer truthfully. If a student asks
whether the Honor Code requires him or her to respond to questions, interviewers are instructed to say “We expect you
to answer.” However, Dean of Students Tom Shandley, in a recent interview with a Davidsonian reporter, said that students cannot
be bound by the Honor Code to answer questions that do not relate to a potential Honor Code violation. This
did not seem to be clearly articulated in a recent investigation of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. Last week’s Davidsonian reported
that at least six new members were under the “impression that declining to answer a question would constitute an Honor
Code violation.”

While we recognize the need of college administrators to collect information about alleged violations, using the Honor Code ambiguously to
help solicit testimony can be perceived as an act of intimidation and compromises the relationship of trust upon which our
community is based. Simply replying, “Not answering a question during this investigation is not an Honor Code violation” would leave
room for little misunderstanding. The administration needs to be clear about confidentiality and the applications of the Honor Code when
dealing with students.

Upholding the relationship of trust also requires students to be cooperative and forthcoming. Under no circumstances should students use the
fact that not responding to a question does not qualify as an Honor Code violation to stonewall the administration. Trust
requires clear and positive communication from both sides.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS ©

Editor-in-Chief
Liz Barry

Managing Editor
Ruchi Turakhia

News Editors
Kate Gillespie, Lexi Hamilton & Jackie McKeon

Perspectives Editors
Halley Aelion & Nathan Bradshaw

Arts & Living Editors
Katie Hunter & Mike Wellman

Yow! Editors
Pope Kenner & Jeff Yeakel

Business, Advertising, and Circulation

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Thanks, sportswriters

I wanted to pass along a strong compliment to the articles written by Monica Jamouneau and Wilson McCrory in the
April 12 issue. Ms. Jamouneau successfully amplified that student-athletes at Davidson carry a remarkable degree of dedication, time management, and
balance. “Scholar-athletes” often do so well in the classroom (and after graduating) due to self-motivation, a healthy lifestyle, and a
desire to prove themselves. Playing sports at Davidson is a tremendous challenge and a worthy honor.

Mr. McCrory highlighted basketball coach Bob McKillop for the special gift we at Davidson have enjoyed and benefited greatly from.
Coach McKillop stands for what makes Davidson so great in terms of class, character, overachievement, loyalty, and winning. He is
a mentor and example for many coaches here and beyond. Davidson is full of amazing people: Bob McKillop is certainly
one of many gems.

Matt Spear
Men’s Soccer Coach

In defense of Engage for Change

The goal of the campus sleep-out on Apr. 4 was to provide the students who participated with a chance to
question our comfort and complacency, and to realize that the Davidson experience and the experience of a homeless person exist
simultaneously. The event sought to provide a deeper understanding of the issues so that future efforts to serve the homeless
and the hungry can be more compassionate and effective.

We recognize, as John Fry suggested (“Campus sleep-out: a parody of poverty,” Apr. 12), that the sleep-out could have become
a superficial, feel-good experience. With this in mind, the evening included an educational documentary and face-to-face conversations with homeless individuals
to supplement students’ personal reflections. The campus conversations following the sleep-out are evidence that the event provided students with an
opportunity for a greater understanding of homelessness and evoked an impetus to action.

Also, we hope that Davidson considers this event as one part of the entire Engage for Change campaign. Events such
as the campus sleep-out, Oxfam Hunger Banquet, and the Los Angeles Poverty DepartmentResidency provided a venue for education that can
be applied in the future. Events such as the service day provided concrete action to combat homelessness and poverty in
our communities. Engage for Change seeks to encourage more of the dialogue and sensitization from which the project itself emerged.
This exchange of articles in itself is evidence of such dialogue and we hope for it to continue. Engage for
Change is not Davidson’s solution to homelessness and hunger, but is a way for students to learn more about the
complexity of the issues. Thank you for the opportunity to clarify the motivations behind the campus sleep-out. Certainly, it was
not a perfect simulation of homelessness; no such thing exists. That being said, we believe it helped foster at least
a bit of understanding of a way of life that is totally foreign to the vast majority of Davidson students.

Student Leaders, Engage for Change 2006

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor. Please e-mail submissions of fewer than 250 words to davidsonian@davidson.edu. We reserve the
right to edit for content, brevity, and grammar. Anonymous letters will not be printed.

Stereotypes have no effect on service

Bench-press and breast: not two words that usually appear in the same phrase except at fraternity houses. This past Friday,
Phi Delta Theta, one of the last surviving Davidson fraternities, had their spring charity event: Bench Press for Breast Cancer.
Never before had I seen so many XL pink shirts. Never before had I heard so many cheesy 80s inspired
techno hits played outside of Chambers. And most importantly, never before had I been so impressed by the often-shirtless Phi
Delts.

One might automatically assume that I must have had some sort of intimate relations with a Phi Delt to be
writing this article; and by intimate relations, I mean playing a pick-up football game, chugging a beer, slamming it against
my head, and releasing a loud WHOO! YEAH! (Honestly, who doesn’t have a secret desire to do that?) In actuality,
I was incredibly impressed by the success, both socially and monetarily, of this event.

ASHLEY SEMBLE

I tried to keep an open mind, but I would be lying if I said I didn’t think the idea
was a little silly. My big brother, a Phi Delt brother, originally told me about this event, and I will
admit that I was a wee bit skeptical. Like some of my fellow Davidsonians, I had some difficulty wrapping my
brain around the thought of transplanting the manly grunting, angry music, blood, sweat, and tears usually reserved for the weight
room onto the unsuspecting sea of seersucker, Longchamp, and Rainbows (aka Chambers Lawn).

I tried to keep an open mind, but I would be lying if I said I didn’t think the idea
was a little silly. On Friday morning, I saw a certain member of the football team head-banging to techno music
while adorned with a pink headband and a pink shirt with the message “real men wear pink.” I couldn’t help
but chuckle to myself as I recalled an image of that same man throwing a keg with his shirt off
at a party a few weeks prior. I also approve of the lovely shade of rose (nay! powder-pink) they chose
for said shirts.

At lunchtime, I trudged towards Chambers and was immediately taken aback by the crowd that had formed. I stopped and
witnessed a man in an extremely tight, and extremely revealing, spandex suit, lift about 10 times my body weight. It
was a memorable event because of 1) the cajones (no pun intended) that this man had to have to wear
such an outfit 2) the athleticism shown under the pressure of his peers and 3) the enthralled crowd that was
growing by the minute. I realized in that moment that Phi Delt was making a good amount of cash and
that what I once thought would earn a few chuckles was actually earning respect and money.

My motive in writing this article is to draw attention to the assumptions, the often erroneous assumptions, that stereotypes have
a tendency to elicit. Sure, perhaps many beer-guzzling, weight-lifting, hormone-laden fraternity brothers would not have been able to pull off
such a successful event; but these guys did. I’ve already admitted that I had my doubts, but they were definitely
put asunder by the impressive shows that Fountain Walker and the weight-lifting coach put on. (I don’t know the coach’s
name because I’m a weak premed who can barely carry my chemistry textbook up the stairs.) These events brought the
Davidson community laughter and pride, the likes of which only big men in pink shirts and spandex can. Job well
done, sirs. Job well done.

Ashley Semble ’09 is from Winston-Salem, N.C. Contact her at asemble@davidson.edu.
