THE DAVIDSONIAN | ARTS & LIVING

Upcoming show a work of ‘genius’

By PAIGE TAYLOR
Staff Writer

Dance enthusiasts, brace yourselves. This semester, post-Dance Ensemble, there is still a chance to catch some amazing moves completely disassociated
from the debauchery of Spring Frolics.

The North Carolina Dance Theatre, Charlotte’s own professional ballet company, will soon play host to an unprecedented show at the
city’s Belk Theatre. To celebrate its 35th anniversary, the company is bringing to town the works of three of America’s
top dance choreographers. Called “American Genius,” the show features the works of Jerome Robbins, Alvin Ailey, and George Balanchine, combining
them into one production that is sure to thrill audiences.

The first piece of the show features dances from the musical “Fancy Free,” set in New York City in the
1940s. Choreographed by Jerome Robbins and first released in 1944, the jazzy piece features scores from the famous and prolific
composer Leonard Bernstein. Culminating in high-energy “dance offs” between three sailors competing for the affections of two ladies they meet
while out on the town, the ballet is regarded as one of Robbins’ greatest achievements. While not as widely known
as his work in “West Side Story,” “Fancy Free” is sure to appeal to those of all ages. It even
inspired the hit movie “On the Town” starring Frank Sinatra and Gene Kelly, which remains a classic favorite of movie
musical enthusiasts to this day.

Along with Robbins’ jazzy numbers from “Fancy Free,” the show features performances from “The River” by Ailey, America’s predominant and
world-renowned African-American choreographer. The namesake for the famous dance school and ballet company based in New York City, Ailey created
79 ballets over the course of his lifetime. “The River,” set to the music of jazz great Duke Ellington, will
be performed by members of the North Carolina Dance Theatre en pointe. This is a very rare and extraordinary way
to present such a jazz piece. Anna Kisselgoff, dance critic for the “New York Times,” praised the North Carolina Dance
Theatre’s 2004 performance of “The River” as a “powerful, polished, and engaging show.”

The final piece in the production features the choreography of George Balanchine, who served as former ballet master of the
world-renowned New York City Ballet company. Adding a dash of the classical to “American Genius,” Balanchine’s “Violin Concerto,” featuring the
musical compositions of Igor Stravinsky, ends the production on a symphonic high note.

Under the leadership of Jean-Pierre Bonnefoux, another former principal dancer with the New York City Ballet, the North Carolina Dance
Theatre promises to wow audiences with gorgeous technique and three separate ballets that have defined American theater as we know
it.

The show runs from May 4 through 6 at the Belk Theatre in the Blumenthal Performing Arts Center, located in
downtown Charlotte. Tickets are available online. So, find time to squeeze in some culture during the stressful semester’s end, especially
if you’ve got family, friends, or a significant other paying a visit. Otherwise, the only type of dancing you might
find around here this time of year is seniors skipping down the aisles at graduation.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 2006

Condoms, from page 6

room first aid kit or the health center, in the baskets containing what is often misconstrued as candy. Condoms are
also quite easy to carry. Men, you can slide one into your wallet, and women, you can pop one in
your purse. Yes, ladies, you can carry them too.

Condoms can also be sexy. Most of those surveyed agreed that sex is not any less enjoyable with them, even
if some respondents, usually men, stated that they “reduce pleasure.” However, sex would be incredibly less enjoyable if you were
to contract an STD.

It is also important to get tested for STDs. If you do not get tested for yourself, at least do
it for your partner. Condoms, while a serious subject, can admittedly be funny at times. STDs, however, are never a
laughing matter.
