THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Suzie Eckl
Staff Writer

Last week, the Wildcat women’s lacrosse team dropped to 6-5 on the season with two losses in the state of
Ohio, falling 16-7 on Friday against the Bobcats of Ohio University at Athens and then 16-5 on Sunday against the
Buckeyes of Ohio State.

In the first of the weekend’s road games, OUA grabbed the early lead and never relented.

Taking the first eight goals, the Bobcats dominated play in the first half, and it was not until the 3:01
mark that Eloise Grose ’06 scored her team-leading 26th goal of the season from an assist by Missy Gilbert ’06.
Another goal followed for Davidson a minute later, coming off a free position shot by Becky Horton ’09.

In the second period, down 8-2, the Wildcats did what they could to repair the damage. Sarah Walter ’08 and
Horton each sent in another free position shot to take the first two goals of the second frame, but their
efforts were not enough.

Davidson got to within as many as five with just over 20 minutes to play, but Ohio scored the last
three goals of the game to seal the deal.

Davidson was outshot 32-19 overall but won both the ground ball contest and draw control count 22-21 and 13-12, respectively.
The ’Cats also committed more turnovers, finishing with 22 to the Bobcats’ 18.

Leslie Smith ’06 took the loss after playing almost 23 minutes and allowing eight goals. She shared the net with
her teammate, Laura Johnson ’08, who made four saves and also allowed eight goals.

The Bobcats’ record improved to 3-7, and they were the first American Lacrosse Conference team to play Davidson since the
Wildcats switched from that conference at the beginning of the year.

Two days later, the Wildcats walked onto the field again, this time against Ohio State. The game, OSU’s first win
of the season, ended in a 16-5 loss for the Wildcats.

Again, Davidson allowed their opponents to take the lead at the start of the game, with OSU taking the first
three goals within six minutes.

Walter sent in Davidson’s first, an unassisted goal at the 6:36 mark in the first, and teammate Emily Palmer ’08
followed suit with another goal about four minutes later. Down by only two, Davidson was as close as they would
ever be in the game, as OSU did not hesitate to extend their lead.

The Wildcats found themselves down 9-3 at the half, a deficit that only deepened at the beginning of the second
when the Buckeyes scored seven in a row to take their lead to a game-high 13 goals.

With 55:05 on the clock, Davidson finally took their first goal of the second, a free-position shot by Emily Diefendorf
’08. Callie Seymour ’09 finished the scoring for the game with under four minutes to play.

Again Davidson was outshot handily 42-16, and goaltender Smith, with 11 saves for the contest, took another loss. Reserve goaltender
Johnson played for a half period and stopped four.

Despite the weekend’s disappointing losses, however, the Wildcats remain hopeful and retain a winning record at 6-5 for the season.

Davidson returns home after a string of four road games to face Howard Friday at 5 p.m.

Sucks

Dick Vitale: The only good thing about the end of the college basketball season is that now Dicky V. won't
be shouting absurdities and waving his arms every two seconds on ESPN for a while. Maybe in the offseason, ESPN's
favorite big-mouth can officially sign an advertising contract with Duke University.

Baseball's Opening Day: Amidst the steroid controversy, this American pastime, like so many others, seems tainted, obsessed with money and
ripe for satire.

Syringe Throwers: Padres fans threw syringes at Barry Bonds the other day. File this incident with other examples of poor
but funny sportsmanship.

Roger Clemens: Don't doubt his pitching arm, but even his own family doesn't know if it will be baseball or
retirement for Rog. And then there's the mild racial slur he made against Asians on Tuesday.

Larry Brown: The Knicks have now lost eight consecutive games. Just goes to show that Brown’s $10 million contract was
a waste of about $9 million.

Doesn't Suck

Joakim Noah: Forget UCLA's big men. The ever-emotional Noah dropped 16 points, grabbed nine boards and swatted away six shots
Monday night to help the Gators demolish the Bruins 73-57.

Detroit Pistons: The boys from Motown are 59-14 and 11 games up on the Heat for first place in the
East. Looks like the Pistons are cruising for a matchup vs. the Spurs, Mavericks or Suns come June.

Tony's Win: The Martinsville Speedway, what Tony Stewart once told reporters should be filled with water and turned into a
bass lake, was the site of his paint-swapping victory this Sunday.

Baseball's Opening Day: Despite the Bonds controversy, the sports fan in many a person awakened Monday with the start of
baseball's long 160-plus game season.

Maryland: Down goes Duke, again. The Terrapins beat the Devils 78-75 (OT) in the women’s national championship game. Somewhere Gary
Williams is proud.

For The Davidsonian’s final four issues, Sports will run the Sucks/Doesn’t Suck feature. Those who wish to share the boons
and banes of their existences with the “greater college community” should email pitrumbo@davidson.edu. If your comment is ridiculous and/or relevant
enough, pitrumbo (not his real name) will include it in the next week’s paper.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 2006

15

Lacrosse lost 7-16 at Ohio University and 5-16 at Ohio State University.

704.895.0404

Cut & Style - $20

Color at a reduced Price
