THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2006

’Cats get home win; lose two of three on the road

By WILL BRYAN
Staff Writer

During the last week and a half, there has been much talk of streaks surrounding the men’s basketball team. Going into their matchup with Furman on Jan. 14, the Wildcats were sporting the nation’s longest in-conference winning streak at 27 games, a mark that tied the all-time record for Davidson basketball history. The Wildcats lost that Furman game 70-66, causing a stir among Davidson fans as their Wildcats dropped out of the division lead. The ’Cats shot a measly 38 percent from the field while allowing Furman to connect on 11 three-pointers. Davidson was no longer perfect.

Losing to Furman only left the option of getting better, and they did. Pushed to the limits at the College of Charleston on Jan. 17, Davidson was able to alter its offensive philosophy in a successful manner. The Cougars pushed the Wildcats on the perimeter and in transition, but Davidson was able to respond by driving to the basket and getting open on backdoor cuts. Brendan Winters ’06 led Davidson with 25 points while only attempting one three-pointer. “Brendan read the defense and took what it gave him,” said Coach Bob McKillop. “That’s something the team is getting better at doing.” Boris Meno ’08 also retained his emerging presence on the interior as he led the team with nine rebounds.

The game was tight throughout most of the first and second halves, with the College of Charleston forcing a tie with just under five minutes remaining. But Davidson went on an 8-0 run that was capped by a Thomas Sander ’08 three-pointer with the shot clock winding down. It was Sander’s first three of his career.

Coming into the game last Saturday, Davidson sported the longest home conference winning streak in the Southern Conference at 19 games. The last team to beat them at Belk Arena was none other than their Saturday opponent, Georgia Southern. But if the College of Charleston game marked versatile and responsive strategy, the Georgia Southern victory was a return to the Wildcat’s tried-and-true philosophy of strong defensive rebounding, crisp passing and inside-out scoring. Davidson was able to get the ball on the block for Ian Johnson ’06, who followed his 20-point output against the College of Charleston with an 11-point performance last Saturday as the Wildcats cruised to an 83-58 victory. Combining the 6’9” forward with Sander and Meno gave the ’Cats a definite edge, and the interior trio accounted for 29 points and 21 rebounds. More importantly, they drew double teams from the Eagle defenders and players like Winters and Eric Blancett ’06 found open looks from the outside. Winters finished with 15 points, surpassing Mike Maloy ’70 for fifth place on the all-time scorer list with 1,691 career points. That accomplishment was overshadowed by Blancett’s performance, as he had a career-high 17 points on 6-7 shooting and 3-4 from beyond the arc. “I couldn’t be happier for a player than to have him have a game like today,” said McKillop. For Blancett, the performance was perfectly timed, as he had been struggling to find a rhythm all season. Blancett has a history of injuries that have pocked his otherwise productive Davidson career. It was special for a sometimes overlooked fifth-year senior like Blancett to have a break-

See Basketball page 14

Kenny Grant ’06 had five points and eight assists in the Cats 83-58 win over Georgia Southern.

Wildcats sustain six game winning streak at home

Tia Washington ’07 had seven points and three assists in a 54-41 win over Elon.

Player of the Week

PLAY OF THE WEEK —

By Suzie ECKL
Staff Writer

Brynn Kelly ’07
Women’s Basketball
Hometown: Spokane, Washington
Major: Sociology

Kelly has helped the ’Cats to turn their seasonaround and win eight of their last ten games. In a win against Elon, she scored 10 points and grabbed 10 rebounds. Then, in another win at Wofford, she had 14 points and five rebounds. The women’s basketball team had a rough start to the season during the first semester, with only three wins in nine games. But just as winter break began for most other students, the team turned itself around and now sits with a 10-7 record and a six-game winning streak at home. In their last three games, the Wildcats defeated three conference rivals, Georgia Southern, Elon, and Wofford, bringing their Southern Conference record to 6-2.

On Jan. 14, Davidson challenged the Eagles of Georgia Southern at home and finished on top, 71-52. Janell Crayton ’06 led the team with 21 points while teammate Tia Washington ’07 finished with 10 assists, tying her career high. The game started with GSU sinking the first jumper to get the early lead, but Davidson was quick to answer. Just over three minutes into the game, the ’Cats went on a 13-0 run, holding the Eagles at six points for more than four minutes. Momentum shifts filled the game, however, and GSU regained the lead with less than half a period to go. Again the pendulum swung as Davidson kept the Eagles at 22 for almost six minutes. Coming out of halftime up 32-26, the Wildcats quickly got back to work in the scoring department with a jumper by Jessica Mitchell ’07. The ’Cats improved their field goal percentage, bringing it from 40 percent in the first half to 56.5 percent in the second. The Eagles struggled, and over a 30-second interval, the Wildcats had forced three turnovers. Davidson brought the lead to a substantial 11 points, but, as in the first half, lost control and let GSU climb back to within five. In a game that could have gone either way, the Wildcats pulled themselves together to bring their final lead to 19, securing the win. Honna Housley ’08 nailed all five of her shots in the game, including two 3-pointers, and Danielle Hemerka ’08 recorded her second career double-double with 17 points and 11 rebounds.

Three days later, the Wildcats faced the Phoenix of Elon at Belk Arena in a low-scoring contest that ended with a 54-41 win for Davidson. Elon led for most of the first half of the game but could not lose Davidson altogether. The Wildcats struggled initially, at one point missing six successive shots, but offensive woes affected both teams. In the first half, Davidson netted only 30.6 percent of its shots, and Elon was only slightly better with 40 percent. The Phoenix also turned the ball over 22 times throughout the game, six of them in a four-minute stint during the first half. The Wildcats capitalized on Elon’s mistakes and put up 23 points off of turnovers. After halftime, the defensive battle continued with both teams clawing for the lead. Davidson’s shooting percentage improved slightly, but three of Davidson’s top four scorers sank only seven of 31 field goal attempts throughout the game. It was not until the 10:41 mark that Davidson took the lead for good. For the game’s last 12 and a half minutes, the ’Cats held the Phoenix to five points and finished the game strong.

Following a 66-70 loss at Furman, the ’Cats were trying to avoid consecutive SoCon losses. With the game vs. College of Charleston tied at 66, Johnson ’06 made a layup with under four minutes to play to give the ’Cats the lead. The team eventually won 80-70.