THE DAVIDSONIAN HUMOR
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2006

Outdoor housing opportunities to be provided for enthusiastic students

While 32 students will live in the new Main Street townhouses next year, 47 more students have opted for another new housing option. RLO approved the movement to allow outdoor housing as a trial option next year. The creative new approach will allow the 28 men and 19 women to move throughout campus for their residence.

Dean of Residence Life Gary Wilhelm gave his full support to the outdoor housing program, saying that he thinks it is a great response to an increasing student demand. “A large number of students have been sleeping outside unofficially already this semester. After we saw that they were desirous of having the outdoor option, we knew the best thing to do was to have an official option next year,” said Wilhelm. “Therefore, we are proud to announce the opening of Belk Outdoor Hall.”

To celebrate the approval, the 47 students and approximately 32 of their supporters slept out on Belk Lawn last Tuesday night. “We're glad to see this kind of support for our housing option. So many of us feel constrained by the walls and the ceilings of conventional rooms. We just want to be liberated from those restraints,” said John Quincy '08. Quincy was one of the leaders of the move for outdoor housing. He spent Tuesday night on the ground wearing only a heavy jacket and a pair of long underwear. “We are all very excited for next year. I’ve started planning hall programs for Belk Outdoor, or B.O., as we’re calling it,” said Quincy.

“Our freshman hall wanted to stick together again next year,” said 1st Belk resident Aaron Wells ’09. “We knew we couldn’t all get into the sophomore apartments with our varying lottery numbers, though. Outdoor housing will allow us all to live together.”

There is no word yet as to whether cable TV will be provided to students living outdoors.

Students to get credit for protesting

In response to a growing movement from both students and faculty, Registrar Julie Hawthorne announced last Friday that next semester, the college will allow class credit for participating in student protests. “Protesting for or against certain causes is an important aspect of the college experience,” said Hawthorne. “We felt that it fit the requirements for credit towards a liberal arts degree.”

Initially, administrators discussed counting participation in protests towards community service hours, but that was decided against. Many members of the college community are in favor of the new credit option. “Providing credit will promote participation from a wider percentage of the student body,” said Will Young ’08. “More students will now be willing to support worthy causes and really make a difference in our community.”

Professor of Political Science James North supports the decision. “Political advocacy is an important part of being a college student,” said North. “I’m glad our administration is finally supporting the students’ right to make signs and complain about things that don’t directly affect them.”

Others are concerned that protesting isn’t really an academic pursuit. “With our Honor Code, it will be really hard to think up clever protest signs without plagiarizing them from other signs,” said Laura Keller '09.

The addition of credit will also make participation in protests much more time effective for students. “One reason we didn’t have many students turn out for the ‘March of Discontent’ a few weeks ago was because a lot of them said they ‘just had too much to do,’” said Keller."Much work to do," said Fran O’Neil ’07. "Now that students can get credit for protesting, I think we'll have a great turnout for our ‘Angry August’ and ‘Seditious September’ protests." Credit for protesting could be counted in a variety of different ways. The subject of a protest will determine the course number the students are given credit for. For instance, if a student protests about an international political scenario, then they would receive a political science credit that could also be counted towards their multicultural requirement. Or if someone protested the RSC residency, credit would be given in the theater department.

Not everyone was pleased by the decision, however. "Attending a rally is not a form of education," said Ryan Lee ’06. "Studying dead languages or drawing naked people is what education is all about. Trying to force your views on others is the exact opposite."

Protests would have to be focused upon external causes in order to count for credit. Protests concerning RLO, the Union Café, or the humor publications would not receive credit. Next semester, students will receive credit for standing around together again next year. I’m so pumped.

The new housing is not without its critics, however. "How are they going to enforce alcohol policy on the outdoor hall?" said Mandy Heath ’06. "What about when students from indoor halls come back up the hill and just pass out on the outdoor halls? Hall cleanups are another matter entirely. This move raises far too many questions that the administration has not considered."

"It is surprisingly hard to find privacy outdoors," said Amber Adler. "This is a very small school."

Professors have many concerns about outdoor housing. "RLO has decided not to have hall counselors on Belk Outdoor Hall," said Professor of Art Ralph Candon. "Where are students supposed to go when they get locked out? Will they call RLO every time it happens?"

Wilhelm addressed other concerns in a statement during the presentation of the new housing program to the Trustees on Friday. "Internet connectivity and phone lines will operate on the same principles as those in indoor halls. For example, we will limit our outdoor residents to one phone line per room, just as we do with indoor residents," said Wilhelm.

Trustee Jacqueline Mulberry ’79, a member of the Committee on Campus Religion and Life, said she was impressed at the initiative taken by the outdoor residents. "It’s great to see students pursuing their goals and succeeding. I look forward to visiting campus next year and seeing students lying out on the ground everywhere as I take an early morning jog," said Mulberry. "We will limit our outdoor residents to one phone line per room, just like the indoor residents."

RLO is still working out details on which amenities to provide students. Questions of closet space and desks are being addressed by a joint administration-student committee, which should announce its decisions by the end of the semester. "I’m really hoping that we can convince RLO to provide us with sleeping bags; I mean, it’s cheaper than a mattress and frame setup, so I don’t see any reason not to," Quincy said. "But even if we wind up having to provide our own, we're just grateful to be sleeping outside."

SEVERE. GUARDED. LOW.

The Homework Warning Level rose to Orange Monday. The Dean of Students Office cited weeks left until graduation, the proximity of Easter Break, and a spike in homework-related activities at Furman as causes for the heightened alert. The Homework Advisory System is a means to disseminate information regarding the risk of academic work to the students, faculty, and visitors of Davidson College.