10 THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2006

How Davidson looks from Britain
By BRENDAN PARETS
Guest Columnist

Thus far, my year abroad at St. Catherine’s College, University of Oxford has been both fulfilling and frustrating. It’s also allowed me to see from afar what’s good at Davidson and what’s less good by comparing it to another way of doing things.

Since arriving here, I’ve learned a number of things from Oxford about my time at Davidson. I’ve learned that Commons really isn’t all that terrible. You think that Durango Beef and Cheese is bad? Last night for dinner, they served “Toad in the Hole” followed by “Spotted Dick” for dessert.

I’ve learned that living in a single is pretty nice. Almost everyone at Oxford has a single, and they all seem to learn how to deal with other people, at least in their own English sort of way. In fact, I’d say that the only thing I learned at Davidson from living with a roommate is that I really don’t want to live with a roommate.

I’ve learned that nobody’s heard of Davidson. It’s nice to see that American students and British ones can all agree on one thing: that they’ve never heard of Davidson College.

I’ve learned that allowing people to drink (or even play drinking games) at 18 doesn’t lead to the downfall of an institute of higher education. You’d think that many Oxford students would like to take advantage of the free socialized medical care, but I think that Davidson actually wins the count of alcohol-related ambulance rides. However, it might be that many English students have a particularly high tolerance from practicing binge drinking since the age of nine and a half.

This is not a joke: during freshman orientation here, the college actually provides alcohol in order to “lubricate awkward social situations.” Say what you will, but at least it would save the fine gentlemen of second Belk some money.

I’ve learned that the Davidson College chapter of Phi Delta Theta doesn’t quite have the same international cachet that I had originally envisioned. Although I’m not a Phi Delt, I tried to gain some “street cred” by telling people that I was a member. Not even repeated mentions of Blacklight Beach Party led to my intended outcome. (Chet: This is a joke)

I’ve learned that KA has nothing on some of these guys at Oxford. You want to pop your collar? That’s cool, but you can’t really pop it unless you descend from landed gentry, have a castle in the country, and went to Eton.

I’ve learned that there’s far less political correctness here. I’ve read some stuff in the student newspapers that would make Sketchy Steve blush.

I’ve learned that I really like having a car. Although it’s lovely to walk over a mile to get groceries, I remind myself how I used to complain about having to walk all the way to Satellite parking from Sentelle in order to hop in my car and drive over to Food Lion.

Finally, I’ve learned that the people at Davidson are actually pretty cool. By and large, Davidsonians are down to Earth, smart, open and friendly. And compared to the average Oxford student, most people at Davidson are practically Olympic athletes.

This list is by no means exhaustive, and maybe someone down the road will be impressed by my boasts of knowing people in Phi Delt at a school that they’ve heard of. Wofford, for example. However, I can safely say that I do miss Davidson, and that when I return, I will resume complaining about everything at Davidson like I never left.

Brendan Parets is a junior political science major from New York, N.Y. Contact him at brparets@davidson.edu.

Palestinian parliament spells disaster

An election occurred in the Middle East last week. This election was widely viewed as legitimate; a group of international election monitors described it as “well-administered.” Turnout was estimated at roughly 77 percent, a figure that puts American elections to shame. While some violence has occurred in the hours and days since the results were announced, it appears as though the defeated incumbent party will leave power peacefully—a major step for any fledgling democracy. In short, this election was, as described by pro-democracy advocate Mustafa Barghouti, “the best democratic practice ever in the Arab world.”

There’s only one slight problem: the victorious party is classified by the United States, Israel and the European Union as a terrorist organization. I’m referring, of course, to the recent Palestinian parliamentary elections, in which the Islamic militant organization known as Hamas appeared to have won in a landslide, taking 76 of 132 seats in the Palestinian parliament. Hamas hardliners have committed a large number of terrorist acts in Israel, Gaza and the West Bank, and the party itself continues to refuse to officially recognize Israel’s right to exist. The group has also refused to join peace talks with the Israelis and to remove the call for the destruction of Israel from its platform.

In short, then, Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi could hardly be blamed for describing the election results as “very, very, very bad.” It’s hard to envision a scenario in which the Hamas victory does not represent at least a temporary setback for the peace process; Israel and the United States both refuse to work with Hamas in its present form, with acting Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert saying his country would not “negotiate with a Palestinian administrationif even part of it is an armed terrorist organization.” President Bush, for his part, rightly pointed out that it’s quite difficult to “be a partner in peace if you advocate the destruction of a country.” The situation, though, is not completely hopeless. Hamas leaders have expressed a willingness to continue to observe the state of truce that has existed for the past year, assuming Israel does the same. If the organization keeps its word on this matter, it may be possible for the peace process to continue. For this to actually occur, a few things will have to happen. First, Hamas will have to formally renounce violence and recognize the right of Israel to exist. If the organization cannot do this, the Israelis (and their American allies) will have little reason to further the peace process. Hamas will also have to work with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas to present a united and moderate front on behalf of the Palestinian people. Israel, for its part, will need to wait and see what happens on the Palestinian side. Should Hamas take the steps mentioned above, the Israelis should resume negotiations and continue working towards a peaceful two-state solution. If Hamas fails to do so, on the other hand, Israel will be quite justified in building a wall (literally and figuratively) between themselves and the Palestinians, suspending negotiations and waiting for the eventual election of a more moderate and peaceful Palestinian government before resuming them. Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi could hardly be blamed for describing the election results as “very, very, very bad.” The United States should make a concerted effort to push the two factions in the direction just mentioned, urging the Israelis to show restraint—at least for now—and the new Hamas-led government to disarm and recognize Israel as a legitimate state. The Bush Administration, of course, should have a strong interest in seeing the peace process continue successfully. After all, should the situation deteriorate, an administration that has made the promotion of democracy in the Arab world the centerpiece of its foreign policy will see an early experiment in Arab democracy become an unqualified disaster for the peace and stability of the region. Joe Reed is a sophomore political science major from Raleigh, N.C. Contact him at joreed@davidson.edu.

Hamas could be reason for hope
Halley’s Comment

Historically, the word “Hamas” and the word “elections” have not been found in the same sentence, unless “disrupted by violent suicide bombers” was somewhere in the mix. It is true that Hamas has established its reputation in world affairs by its dedication on an institutional level to destroying the state of Israel in the name of Palestinian birthright. It is furthermore true that Hamas has made a name for itself within its home country by opposing any moderately-minded Palestinian political groups looking to negotiate with Israel on a diplomatic level. In other words, Hamas has a definite goal, does not like to negotiate and has no problem using violence to achieve its ends. So what can one think about the newest international issue raised by Hamas? Although not an issue the world has seen before thanks to this Palestinian “terrorist group,” this new Hamas development does raise interesting questions and suggest far-reaching international repercussions. To put it succinctly: Hamas has decided to join the political fray and now represents the majority and legitimate governing body in Palestine’s parliament. Basically, this extremist “terrorist” party has been legitimized by the Palestinian constituency. What does this mean for the future of Palestinian-Israel relations? I think the initial reaction of most people is one of doom. Israel is not only going through a time of political reshuffling with the new, moderate Kadima party, but the name of Israel’s strongest political leader, Ariel Sharon, is synonymous with “comatose state” in the minds of most citizens. With Hamas newly in power, extreme government officials might see this time as the perfect opportunity to literally strike Israel, their sworn enemy, when they are down and defenseless. This could lead to death and destruction on a level never seen before. But if you ask me, there is reason for hope. For one thing, it is not a small detail that Hamas suppressed its long-standing call to destroy Israel from its election manifesto. You have to consider the reasons Hamas proved so popular among Palestinian voters. Yes, the organization’s hard-line approach probably is an attractive force for some. However, Hamas also has a reputation as an organization clean of corruption and dedicated to charity work. It has been reported and confirmed that areas of disputed Israel/Palestinian territory are best run where there is a strong presence by Hamas officials. These officials see to it that their citizens get clean water, electricity, and food. I think this pragmatism and efficiency really is grounds for hope. And I think we can see progress already. It is not a small detail that Hamas suppressed its long-standing call to destroy Israel from its election manifesto. Hamas is clearly a well-run and organized party with a mission. If they see the best way to get what they want—territory for Palestinians—is through diplomatic negotiation and efficient administration, that is the path they will take. By putting themselves not only on the international stage but in the limelight of world politics, Hamas has taken on a role that demands accountability and moderation. I think they will gladly take up these responsibilities if they see them as a direct route to success. Halley Aelion is a sophomore from Bowie, Md. Contact her at haaelion@davidson.edu.