6 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 2006

By GEORGIE AHRENDT

Survey reveals campus attitude toward condoms

Special Contributor

When asked about my senior thesis topic, I get some funny looks when I truthfully reply “condoms.” On the surface, it does not seem like a very academic subject. Sometimes it is actually pretty hysterical if I think about it enough. Even the word “prophylactic” makes me giggle uncontrollably. Seriously, though, not everything about condoms is funny. I discovered some disturbing information about condom use at Davidson when I sent out a survey to conduct thesis research earlier this year.

For instance, while 48 percent of those who responded to my online survey had used a condom in their last sexual encounter, only 27 percent said that they use a condom all of the time. In other words, 73 percent of respondents do not use condoms consistently. I think we’re all smart enough to know that it only takes not using a condom once to put yourself at risk.

Most of you reading this are probably not worried. Maybe you are in a monogamous relationship with people you trust, or maybe you and your partner have both been tested for sexually transmitted diseases. For many of you, however, there still may be cause for concern. Being in a monogamous relationship, taking the pill, or both can give one a false sense of security. You can have an STD and not be aware of it, thus putting others that you engage in sexual activity with at risk.

The STD rate on campus has been estimated at around 20 percent. More disturbingly, not everyone included in this statistic knows their STD status. If you are sexually active and have not been tested, you could be part of this figure.

I also learned, from the 470 sexually active Davidson students who took the survey, that 47 percent do not think they need to use a condom during oral sex. Men agreed with this statement more than women. It is true that there is less risk of getting an STD when having oral sex. However, it is not a completely harmless practice. This statistic also indicates what I perceive as the general opinion that oral sex does not count as “real sex,” meaning that people do not feel the need to consider it the same way they do intercourse when it comes to protection. If this hypothesis is true, then I have to say that I am worried.

Condoms and candy can be found in the basket at the Student Health

I also discovered that men agree significantly more than women with the statement “I would not use a condom if my partner strongly insisted that I not do so.” In other words, many men, if given the choice, would opt not to use a condom. I strongly advise Davidson women not to give your male partners this option. As the saying goes, “No glove, no love!”

My survey results also showed that men and women do not interpret or experience sex in the same way. If they did, we would have much less need for Health Educator Georgia Ringle’s recommended “The Guide to Getting It On” and other voluminous, sex-related handbooks. It’s funny how something so basic and natural can also be so complicated. Even though condoms themselves are not very complex, the difficulty in dealing with them is not in tearing open the wrapper and putting one on. The hard part is talking about using them.

My study shows men and women feel equally confident about insisting that their partners use a condom. That’s the good news. The bad news is that not as many people feel comfortable talking about whether or not their partner has been tested for STDs. Men feel even less at ease than women when it comes to having such discussions. Everyone should know that one of a condom’s two main purposes is to prevent STDs. If you and your sexual partner are skirting around that subject in conversations, you are avoiding the elephant in the room.

Not all of my survey results were negative, however. I made several encouraging findings as well. While male respondents generally have more casual partners than women, those who are more likely to have casual partners are also significantly more likely to have used a condom in their last sexual encounter. It appears that those who are having casual sex are not necessarily taking risks.

Overall, I am impressed with my peers when it comes to condom use. I think the respondents to my survey generally view condoms in a positive light. They are knowledgeable about condoms and feel confident using them. The situation could be even better if we could stop stigmatizing condoms as annoying and inconvenient. Let’s face it, they are not very hard to find! Just check your bath—

See Condoms, page 7

The halls are alive with the sound of music

By PRESTON DAVIS

Staff Writer

This past weekend, you might have heard Davidson’s Jazz band playing melodies on the Town GreenThat could hypnotize any music lover. Sometime this semester, you may have heard the Davidson College Student Orchestra’s beautiful music filling the Duke Family Performance Hall, or witnessed the ever-popular and established Delilahs, Generals, or Androgyny a-cappella groups excite crowds with their impressive harmony. As the most recognized faces on the Davidson music scene, these groups will be around long after we leave and will continue to entertain us when we come back time and again for alumni reunions.

However, Davidson has put forth a totally new side to its musical offerings this semester, which has captured students' eyes and ears from all over campus. The Battle of the Bands provided a forum for many talented artists, students, and employees alike, to strut their musical stuff. The participating bands covered genres ranging from blues to folk to jazz and rock, playing over the course of several hours to a packed crowd in the College Union. The Battle provided many of its participants with an outlet to express their creativity and talent when they otherwise might have been limited in finding a place to display it. Some of the seven participating groups have taken their acts on the road, playing weekly sets at the Brick House Tavern and in fraternity houses around Patterson Court. Despite early and mid-week performances, many such bands have gained a following, evidence of the musical buzz sweeping campus this semester.

What has sparked Davidson’s newfound musical madness? I have the answer. Russell Howard and the coordinators of Live Thursdays have provided what seems to be the original forum for much of this musical inspiration. The weekly shows have not only given students the chance to appreciate their peers in action but have allowed students an opportunity to express a creative side of themselves they normally might relegate to a dorm room or garage. These gatherings in a relaxed atmosphere have sparked a chain of events that has promoted more musical expression all over campus, whether on the Court, the Town Green, in Sloan studios, or even at the Lake Campus.

At one Live Thursday I attended several weeks ago, a few particular onlookers got very enthusiastic during one band’s performance. Once the band finished, one of these individuals approached them with a wide smile and said, “You have inspired me.” Three weeks later, I discovered that this same onlooker had been working in the Sloan music studio on a song and had recently performed in the Dance Ensemble. These types of occurrences seem to happen with increasing frequency, owing to individuals’ own creativity and the community’s support. This has allowed students to explore unfamiliar artistic territory and know that their peers will be there to support them along the way.

Last week’s Live Thursday provided a perfect example of this communal support and student creativity. Graham Honeycutt ’06 decided to do something a little different for an independent study during the last semester of his senior year. Opting not to take the familiar route of enrolling in self-instructional Italian or Portuguese, he decided instead to create a full-length CD of original songs. While this is quite an accomplishment in itself, Honeycutt’s Live Thursday performance with his band Indiscretions, including Hall Carey ’06 on drums, Will Lamborn ’06 on lead guitar, and Josh Stiff ’06 on bass guitar, enabled him to reach the student population in a way he otherwise might not have been able. Though the audience was small, it was easy to say that they were entertained by the show. The group’s music inspired memories of the alternative music scene that thrived five years ago, especially after Honeycutt walked on stage donning a torn “Staind” t-shirt. Lyrically, the majority of the songs focused on Honeycutt’s own life and Christian faith. Coupled with his alternative sound, this made for an interesting mingling of style and substance, making his show one of definite soul and quality.

Watching Honeycutt and his band perform, I felt as if the inspiration born out of the musical displays from this semester came full circle. I left the show impressed with the band’s accomplishment of creating and performing songs from a self-made, full-length album. Titled “Inner Thoughts,” the album tangibly exists as evidence that something special has been happening on campus as of late. The movement is far from being over, as the last few weeks of school promise more musical and artistic displays from students intent on ending the semester with a bang. With senior art projects on display around campus and band performances scheduled for Spring Frolics, students should have no trouble satisfying their artistic cravings. So take a break from studying and get inspired. You might just catch a glimpse of classmates who won’t be praised for taking the road toward a business or medical career. Those on Davidson’s music scene might just hit it big. For now, however, they are content to bring a little inspiration to all of us here.