THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 2006

We're all Danish

High school, get out of my face

The Prophet Muhammad, in a hadith not often quoted by the jihadists who claim to act in his name, once said that “the ink of the scholar is more precious than the blood of the martyr.” In recent weeks, I’ve been wondering if maybe the Prophet shouldn’t have said “the ink of the cartoonist” instead.

I’m alluding, of course, to the massive brouhaha that was caused by the printing in a Danish newspaper of cartoons displaying Muhammad in what was seen as a disrespectful light. This has led to, among other things, death threats, violent protests, and demands for UN sanctions against Denmark in the Middle East. The response of the U.S. (and the West as a whole) to the controversy has been surprisingly and disappointingly tepid, with many leaders seemingly afraid to call the situation what it is: another indication of the fundamental conflict between liberal Western values and the brand of Islamist theocracy favored by the groups and governments that have been so infuriated by the cartoons.

Let me point out very clearly that I am not in any way implicating all Muslims; it is well worth noting that many of the protests in the Middle East have been led by only a small minority of radical Islamists seeking to use the controversy to promote their own fundamentalist agenda, and there is no doubt that the great majority of Muslims worldwide have a deep respect for peace and freedom. But it is very important for all Westerners to understand that the values being contested in the cartoon controversy are those that we hold most dear. Keep in mind that the right to freedom of speech entails, as an absolutely necessary corollary, the right to say things that some consider offensive. Thus, regardless of what one thinks about the cartoons themselves, we should all recognize that the much-maligned newspaper had every right to publish them. While I’m not going to suggest that you go out and buy every Danish product you can, the people of all Western countries (and, for that matter, all countries everywhere) should make it very clear that they stand squarely on the side of free speech and against those who violently protest it.

In response to the cartoon controversy, some have predictably argued that, were Christ or Christianity displayed in such a mocking fashion, Christians would be offended, too. I would recommend that anyone who makes that argument watch “Dogma,” “Saved” or the episode of “South Park” in which the Messiah wields a machine gun (I personally think “The Passion of the Christ” is more detrimental to Christianity than any of the films and TV shows just mentioned, but that’s a completely different column). And yes, some conservative Christians have been offended by such irreverent portrayals of Jesus, which they certainly have a right to be. But they have expressed their displeasure in writing and speech, and with the occasional rally or boycott. Nobody was killed, and, a few Pat Robertson prayers for the death of a Supreme Court Justice notwithstanding, no death threats were made. So, while I am certainly no fan of the Christian Right, to suggest any moral equivalency between them and those violently protesting a few cartoons is simply ludicrous.

"Courtesy photo The pastry formerly known as a danish."

One more recent development in the situation really put the icing on the cake, as well as putting America’s “freedom fries” situation to shame. A couple of weeks after the beginning of the controversy, Iran’s confectioners’ union ordered all bakers in the country to begin advertising what had formerly been called danishes as “roses of the Prophet Muhammad.” Tragedy, meet farce.

Joe Reed '08 is a political science major from Raleigh, N.C. Contact him at joreed@davidson.edu.

One day during spring break, I decided, as any compulsive Davidson student would, to check my email. To my surprise, I had several emails from the strangely addictive college obsession known as Facebook. After further investigation, I discovered that these were friend requests from the little losers (I mean high school students) that I used to know but am too cool to associate with now. In my confusion, I read about the new Facebook and couldn’t help but feel annoyed. As the rest of Davidson already knows, Facebook, in its effort to increase peace, love, and stalking in the world, decided to combine high school and college Facebook into one continuous entity of creepiness.

Don’t get me wrong—I love Facebook. What else would I do—learn, study, grow as a person? Nah—I’m actually going to go leave a message on my roommate’s wall now instead of finishing this article...

Why did they have to combine college and high school Facebooks? I waited patiently until June of last year to receive my college email address. Joining Facebook was a rite of passage. It meant that I was finally going to college; I was leaving my parents, I was leaving the monotonous drama of high school, and most importantly, I was able to check out the hot guys at Davidson from afar. Combining the two separate Facebooks into one has taken away the magic that originally accompanied joining the site. Now anyone can join Facebook anytime. Ew, as if.

The prepubescent high schoolers should be upset about these changes too. The combination of high school and college Facebook is going to exacerbate the scarring situations we all went through in high school. Instead of obsessing over one’s weight, clothes, boyfriends or girlfriends, now the average high school student is going to obsess over how many friends they have in college.

ASHLEY SEVIBLI

Nice job, Facebook—way to completely smash any bit of self-esteem high school students had left. College studentshave the best reason to scoff at Facebook’s expansion. My roommate and I have commiserated over the strangely random friend requests we have been receiving recently. I was “friended” by a random girl that I barely know because she wanted to see pictures of my new boyfriend. That is just disturbing. Combining the two separate Facebooks into one has taken away the magic that originally accompanied joining the site. Now anyone can join Facebook anytime. Ew, as if. Two weeks ago, I was “friended” by a freshman at my old high school. I’ve interacted with this girl maybe twice during high school because she was on JV Volleyball when I was on Varsity. I think the extent of our interactions was limited to “Can you grab that ball?” and “Stop stealing our balls!” I don’t really consider that a deep, meaningful discussion that would warrant a friend request over a year later—but maybe that’s just me. My anecdotes are only two examples of what countless students at Davidson have experienced since the merger of high school and college Facebooks. I will always love Facebook because it serves a purpose. It connects people in a way that nothing else can, and provides hours upon hours of enjoyment for college, and now high school, students. Despite my frustration, the two Facebooks have become one and it’s not my place to break them up—even if it is an unhealthy, obsessive relationship.

Ashley Semble ’09 is from Winston Salem, N.C. Contact her at assemble@davidson.edu.

What would Aretha Franklin do?

Yes, that is Aretha Franklin in the title. And now a non sequitur. Taylor Ansley’s response (“WM critique crossed the line,” Feb. 22) to Daniel Van Oudenaren’s criticism of the “Vagina Monologues” (“An unnecessary vulgarization,” Feb. 15) makes some points that I feel the need to refute. Mr. Ansley makes the assumption that Mr. Van Oudenaren, as a man, is in no position to address the nature of womanhood. Frankly, by that logic, Mr. Ansley himself has no room to criticize Mr. Van Oudenaren. Indeed, what does he know about what it is to be Mr. Van Oudenaren? What does he know about what it is to be anything other than what he himself is? Moral relativism is the ultimate vicious cycle. It decrees that the party being judged is the only party that can make said judgment. Right and wrong are not concepts that reach beyond any one person, then, but merely decisions made by each individual. The notion that a man cannot comment on womanhood is an example of such a moral vacuum. So let’s take it a step further. Let’s have murderers tried by a jury that really is of their peers—a jury of murderers. Or better yet, let’s have each individual murderer determine his own punishment, since he is the only one who can judge whether what he did was right or wrong. Personally, I think the nature of being an Arab is wholly centered upon a desire to kill all Westerners. P.S. You can’t tell me that my opinion is wrong because I’m a quarter Lebanese. Should we let murderers determine their own sentences? No. Do I actually believe that about “Arabhood?” No. Do such things as right and wrong exist? Yes. Mr. Van Oudenaren put forth his view, which is that the depiction of womanhood and sexuality in the “Vagina Monologues” is wrong. Mr. Van Oudenaren himself is not wrong simply because he applied the idea of “wrong” to something outside of himself. Maybe he does not have as personal a perspective on vaginas as a woman does, but the fact is that he brought up a perfectly legitimate point: if you do not wish for your identity to be reduced to your genitalia, statements like “be your clitoris” are probably not the best way to go about it. Sadly, none of the responses printed in the last issue directly confronted this point. Mr. Ansley did, however, decide to exaggerate his target’s position (that one depiction of a vagina and certain segments of the play were offensive) into a universally applied accusation of the incompatibility of womanhood and religion. Now maybe I’m dense and missed Mr. Van Oudenaren’s great diatribe against the entire female gender. Then again, maybe I read the article twenty times and feel safe saying that the author decried not womanhood, but making sexuality into a religion. And maybe (and I write this as an editor frustrated with more than a few letters we have received) people need to be more sure that they understand something before they criticize it. When I first decided to write this column, I intended for it to be scathing, ruthless and downright hostile. But that would not have served my purpose best. In fact, maybe people need to be more careful in general with their criticisms. I will be the first to confess that I have written articles in the Davidsonian that are downright insensitive. When I first decided to write this column, I intended for it to be scathing, ruthless and downright hostile. But that would not have served my purpose best. If one thing became clear in the last two issues, it is that the “Vagina Monologues” is a sensitive topic. Typically, I have been one to advocate insensitivity in all cases, even and especially the sensitive ones. But as long as I’m here at college, I guess I can learn a thing or two. I must thank Scott Ripley for making me understand that dealing with something that is as personal as the “Vagina Monologues” can be requires less by way of “rhetorical venom” and more by way of openness to all points of view. So I close with seven letters from the Queen of Soul: R-E-S-P-E-C-T. Find out what it means to other people, too.

Nathan Bradshaw ’08 is an English major from Swannanoa, N.C. Contact him at nabradshaw@davidson.edu.