8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

RSC member ejected from party for lacking PCC sticker
SEE Page 4

Textbook still not purchased
See Page 7

Professor personalizes soda can
See Page 11

‘Journey to Iran’ spring break trip canceled
See Page 12

Panther would kick Seahawk’s ass ‘in real life,’ yells drunken idiot
See Page 13

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Editors: Bobby Kenner, Jeff Yeakel
Contributors: Brent McCormick

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editors at bokenner@davidson.edu or jeyeakel@davidson.edu.

Note: The Yowl is the humor and satire section of the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as
truth.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2006

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER | February 1, 2006

Union Café. Vice President Jeffrey Morrison was fired this past Thursday after an internal audit revealed that he had bilked
the popular student eatery out of nearly $12.5 million in Davidson College Bonus Bucks. Morrison embezzled the college-created currency in
the forms of corporate write-offs, accounting cover-ups, and lavish sandwich orders.

“The extent to which he stole from the Union Café is simply unprecedented,” said Campus Safety Officer Jill Whitley, head
of the Davidson College Fraud unit. “We really don’t even know how much he has been taking, or for how
long, since Bonus Bucks don’t roll over between academic years.”

Bonus Bucks, which can be used at Davidson College copiers or vending machines in addition to the Union Café, are
usually awarded only through student meal plans. Morrison, however, took advantage of a loophole in the system. “He would falsify
meal plans by creating fake student identities and funnel those Bonus Bucks into his own account,” said Whitley. “Then Morrison
would use the Bonus Bucks to fund his extravagant lifestyle. We are talking about quesadilla orders by the hundred, Cherry
Cokes by the thousand. He would fill his pockets with pickle spears and go home each day with a briefcase
full of gums and candies.”

Public outrage has grown as the details of Morrison’s greed have surfaced. Many are calling for a thorough investigation of
Union Café President Kenneth Roy as well. “We are fed up with corporate greed at this school and in this
country as a whole,” said Betsy Redman ’07. “While the big-shot executives stuff their gluttonous faces with chicken ranch grinders
and trendy coffee-based drinks, the common student is left to fend for themselves, carefully auditing every Xerox copy or Cat
Cupps refill.”

Whitley suggests new or modified accounting standards and business practices concerning Bonus Bucks along with swift and harsh punishment for
executives who abuse their power. “It’s difficult to bring these charges to a government organization or judicial board since these
are not federally approved forms of currency,” said Whitley. “But we will pursue any avenue we can to punish these
individuals, possibly in the form of fines, social probation or a letter home.”

Unfortunately, the repercussions of these crimes are ongoing. Individual Union Café workers and shareholders have lost thousands of dollars in
Bonus Bucks as a result of Morrison’s thievery and the resulting scandal.

Former Union Café Vice President Jeffrey Morrison is removed by Campus Safety after embezzlement allegations led to his firing.

Michael Reyes, the President of the Union Café Workers’ Union (the Union Union), said many workers have lost Bonus money
that they may never be able to recover. “Combined, my workers have lost millions upon millions from their Bonus pensions
and Bonus retirement accounts,” said Reyes.know Union members who had saved enough to never have to pay to use a
copier again and are now broke. How do they expect these workers to feed their families? With Declining Balance? “He
would fill his pockets with pickle spears and go home each day with a briefcase full of gums and candies.”
This is simply shameful.” Several sources have indicated that Morrison’s dismissal is the first of many. “Trust me, this thing
is big,” said Officer Whitley. “I mean, we're talking Big Grab chip bag big.”

Career Services begins critiquing Facebook.com profiles

Last Wednesday, Career Services began critiquing Facebook profiles for the first time. Career Services employee Anne Lechner had a table
set up by the stairs in Vail Commons and read student profiles on her laptop computer. “We recognized the need
to move beyond resume cri-”

“After two years, I didn’t want something stupid like my interest in role-playing games or necromancy to ruin my future
job opportunities.” Lechner reported that she reviewed between 15 and 20 profiles during the lunch period. “The most common problem
the students cause is that it was time to retire from their position as ‘Admiral Blackout.’ We’ve heard many stories
of students getting turned down for jobs because their potential employers viewed their Facebook profile and saw something they thought
was unprofessional or just didn’t like.”

Career Services placed such an emphasis on their new critiquing campaign that Lechner and other employees verbally accosted nearly every
student that walked past their table. Economics major Sterling Jameson ’06 was one of the students who got his profile
critiqued. “I applied to several big companies like Bank of America and Sony-Ericsson,” said Jameson, “so I wanted to give
myself the best shot I could at getting hired. I didn’t want to see scantily clad college students getting drunk
and dancing.”

Jessica Lindsey ’07 was one student who had to remove some of her photo albums. “I was so bummed when
I had to get rid of all my pictures from Black Light Beach Party,” recalled Lindsey. “I even had to
change my profile picture. It was pretty much the best picture of me grinding between two guys that I had.”

Career Services even recommended that students drop out of groups that were either disreputable or had disreputable members. Steve Johnson
’08 decided to revoke his membership to the ‘Students Against Showing Up to Our Future Jobs on Time’ club. “SASUTOFJOT
was a fun club while it lasted,” said Johnson, “but I could see how potential employers could see my participation
in it as a negative character trait.”

Angela Trent ’07 also dropped out of a Facebook club in fear of it affecting her future career plans. “My
goal is to become a pediatrician,” said Trent, “so I decided that after two years, it was time to retire
from my officer position as ‘Admiral Blackout’ in the ‘Connor Girls Party Harder’ club.”

Several students were also told that their movie interests were not suitable to potential employers. “They said that I should
take Donnie Darko off of my favorite movies list,” said Derek Holmes ’08. “Apparently, an interest in it suggests to
employers that you have an antisocial personality and would not perform well in a social work environment.”

The Career Services’ employees also recommend disabling the ‘Wall’ feature of Facebook, as employers are reported to look down upon
applicants who have naked women drawn out in ASCII characters.

Patterson Court Play of the Week
