14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By KEVIN BIRNEY
Staff Writer

The baseball team was slightly more successful over the last two weeks, winning three of eight games, including victories over UNC-Greensboro, Wake Forest, and Elon. The team lost one to Duke, took one of three from Greensboro, defeated Wake in a one-game series, and took one of three from Elon. Their record now stands at 15-25 overall and 4-14 in the SoCon entering the final stretch of the season.

The team began the eight-game stretch with a game at Duke, which they lost 11-5. Duke jumped out to a fast start and didn’t look back, notching five runs in the second inning and eventually pulling away to an 11-0 lead through seven. The ’Cats scored five runs in the last two innings but could not come back from the huge deficit.

Leading the way offensively for the Wildcats was Alden Crissey ’07, who went 3-for-4 with two RBI. Michael Kaufman ’06 took the loss on the mound.

The team followed that up with a three-game series against UNC-Greensboro from April 14 to April 16. In the first game, Davidson took a 2-0 lead in the first off of a home run by Gregory Zage ’07, but couldn’t hold it. Greensboro eventually tied the game at three, but then the Spartans broke through with two runs in the seventh off of starting pitcher Blake Osborn ’07. UNCG won the game 5-3.

The baseball team’s record is now 15-25.

SPORTS
Baseball beats Wake, loses series to Elon

In the second game, Davidson fell again, this time by a score of 12-7. Once again, the ’Cats took the early lead, scoring three runs in the first two innings, but Greensboro fought back. Eight runs in the middle three innings proved too tough to come back from, as the ’Cats extended a then nine-game losing streak.

In the last game of the series, however, Davidson bounced back with a 9-6 victory. Rob Wilson ’07, Jay Heafner ’06, and Osborn led the way offensively, with a combined eight RBI between the three of them. Brant West ’08 collected the win for the ’Cats, his team-leading fourth on the season.

Davidson built on that momentum with a huge win two days later at No. 24 Wake Forest. A five-run eighth inning proved to be decisive, putting the ’Cats ahead for good in a 9-5 victory.

Alex Entrekin ’06 (3-for-5) and Wilson (3 RBI) stood out at the plate, while Kaufman earned his first win of the season in relief. The win stood out as the most impressive of the year so far.

The wins kept on coming as the team took the first of a three-game series against Elon later that week. The 13-8 win combined many impressive performances, but none as good as Entrekin’s offensive effort, which produced a career-high 6 RBI, including a home run. Wilson earned the win on the mound.

The ’Cats could not keep up the momentum, however, dropping the final two games of the series. Elon won the first game 10-3 after going up 8-1. In the second game, Elon chipped away, never having a big inning but remaining consistent to pull off the 8-3 victory.

Wilson paced Davidson offensively, going 2-for-4 with a solo home run.

Next up for the ’Cats is a home game against Duke today, followed by a three-game series at Western Carolina over the weekend.

The team will look to improve on their record and position themselves for the SoCon Tournament.

Calling all Freshmen and Sophomore Economics Majors, and anyone interested in BUSINESS!

The Davidsonian is currently looking for help with Circulation, Advertising, and Business. All three of these positions are PAID!

Email sabogue@davidson.edu for more information.