THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2006

Student petitions to allow masturbation as a lifetime sports P.E. credit

Earlier in the week, Andy Hodge ’07, who was recently informed he has yet to fulfill any of his Physical
Education requirements, submitted a petition to the department head Julie Smythe to request using masturbation to fulfill a lifetime sports
credit. Hodge, who is currently single, feels that the request will be granted. “I don’t see why it won’t be
approved,” he said. “It’s something I’ve been doing pretty much my whole life, and I don’t plan on stopping any
time soon.”

The petition has started quite a campus stir, with proponents on both sides of the issue. The debate is particularly
relevant in light of the fact that some first-year students recently used flashlight tag to obtain their lifetime sports credit.
“Flashlight tag getting these freshmen credit is really what irks me,” said Hodge. “How are you going to give them
a lifetime credit for doing something that would result in your virtual social expulsion past the age of 12?”

Townies: A conversation with Davidson librarian Mildred Pearl

The Yowl: In this week’s edition of Townies, we'll be talking to longtime Davidson Town Public Library librarian, Mrs. Mildred
Pearl.

Mildred Pearl: Actually, it’s Miss Pearl; I’ve never been married. But I like to think that I’ve always had a
loving and caring spouse in the rows and rows of books here at the Davidson library.

TY: Of course, and I’m sure that’s a very healthy relationship. Did your family always emphasize the importance of reading?

MP: Oh, I don’t really have any family anymore. Just me, the books, and my lovely cats. I have 93
cats, and it would be tough to remember all of their names, but I have them organized according to the
Dewey Decimal System. One of my favorite cats is 107.911. The reference cats are, of course, in their own section
of my home. Someday I hope to show all of them off in my favorite non-librarian oriented magazine “Cat Lady.”

TY: They have magazines for librarians?

MP: Oh, of course! My favorite is called “Overdue.” Actually, last year, I wrote an opinion piece for the magazine
“No Talking.” It was fairly well-received by the librarian community.

TY: What sort of interesting things has the Davidson public library been up to recently?

MP: Well, I don’t even know where to begin. We just got this new poster that says “Bookworm,” and it
has a drawing of a worm wearing glasses and reading a book. I think funny things like that show the
lighter side of the library.

TY: What is your feeling about overdue book fines?

MP: Book fines keep us fresh litter in Professor Mittens’ box.

TY: How long have you been a librarian?

MP: Oh, I've librarianed for almost as long as I can remember. I began my career during World War II,
when all of the men were fighting overseas and it became more acceptable for women to find work as librarians.
You see, it used to be that only men were librarians, but few people knew that because they still all
dressed as women. It was quite Shakespearean, actually.

TY: Right. Let’s move on to a slightly less disturbing topic. What are some of your favorite books?

MP: Oh my, that’s like asking me who my favorite husband is!

TY: That doesn’t make any sense.

MP: I would have to say that my favorite book is “Encyclopedia Brown and the Mystery of the Main Street
Ghost.” I have read it hundreds of times, and I am still shocked every time I find out the Main
Street Ghost is actually local rapscallion Buster Davis. Oops! I didn’t mean to give away the ending; you can just
edit that part out.

TY: Will do. So, what are some of your favorite parts of being a librarian?

MP: The prestige is really important to me. It’s also a wonderful conversation starter. I can’t tell you how many
times I’ve been to a dinner party and just dominated the conversation with various anecdotes regarding my work.

TY: What is your opinion of microfiche?

MP: I’m pro microfiche. But I can certainly see the argument from the other side.

TY: What is your relationship like with the Little Library at Davidson College?

MP: I’d really rather not talk about it, thank you very much.

TY: Do I sense some animosity there?

MP: Let’s just say we don’t see horn-rimmed glasses to horn-rimmed glasses. Those Little librarians think they’re so high and
mighty just because...they’re ‘academics.’ They look down on public librarians like me because we have entire sections dedicated to Dr.
Seuss and engulf ourselves in a sea of cats. Did you know that they don’t even have library cards there?

TY: Yes, that’s certainly true. Well, thank you very much for your time, Miss Pearl. We here at The Yowl
certainly appreciate it.

MP: Wave good-bye to the nice reporter, Professor Mittens. Bye bye! Bye bye!

TY: Bye bye...

Townies is a Yowl series featuring weekly interviews with prominent Davidsonians and other local personalities.

Health Advisor Marge Plimpton supports Hodge. “Everything he’s doing is completely natural,” she said. “In fact, it is readily encouraged
among the medical community.” Plimpton said it is not only a great way to relieve stress, but is also great
for cardiovascular fitness as well as a low-impact muscular workout. “With the fast-paced and stressful lifestyle of our students, it
is only fitting that we allow this as a healthy alternative to other, more dangerous activities like tennis, golf, and
bowling,” Plimpton said. She also said that, to the best of her knowledge, there have been few reported cases of
masturbation-related injuries. “It’s something I plan on doing for pretty much my whole life.”

Many students campus-wide seem to agree with Hodge. “If this passes, it really opens the door for those of us
who are both busy and un-athletic,” said Daniel Morgan ’08. “Now I don’t feel intimidated by jumping into a competitive
environment with muscular and slightly scary classmates. This is more of a solo act.”

For every supporter, there is equal opposition. Religion professor Per Ganter is one of the strongest voices of opposition. “This
is a preposterous proposition, and it makes a mockery of the institutions of Davidson,” Ganter said. “What will come next?
Before you know it, masturbating in the shower will be considered a water credit. I won't even talk about how
you can get team sport credits, but you can get the idea.” Ganter also had concerns about finding a teacher
for the course. “Students signed up for tennis get very hands-on instruction by a well-trained instructor,” said Ganter. “Calling anything
about this ‘hands-on’ is simply inappropriate.” Smythe is expected to make her decision by the end of the week.

A WHALE OF A GOOD TIME - Biology professor Veal Pearson will perform a public operation on a large whale.
The operation will be tomorrow at 4 p.m. on Chambers Lawn.

Town police arrest VAC thief, crook

Campus Safety officers arrested Anthony Remlinger outside of the Belk Visual Arts Center late Sunday night for attempting to steal
three student paintings. At the time of his apprehension, the 28-year-old Cornelius man was dressed in all black and loading
the artwork into his Mitsubishi Eclipse. Despite the evidence against him, Remlinger insists that he is innocent of any wrongdoing.
“Stealing the artwork was not a crime, but rather an innovative piece of art in itself,” Remlinger said. “You see,
I am a performance artist, and my so-called theft of the paintings was a performance piece meant to highlight social
norms and then break them down.”

Davidson town police say that Mr. Remlinger’s artful inspirations do not abdicate him from punishment. “A performance artist?” said officer
Will O'Malley. “This guy has multiple prior arrests on his file, including a multimillion-dollar pyramid scheme, two counts of arson,
and falsifying a police report stating that he had found a human arm in his Wendy’s chili. We are talking
about a major con artist.”

Remlinger denies any misconduct regarding the incidents. He said he is a misunderstood artist who has occasionally had to fight
an oppressive and close-minded judicial system. “They just don’t get my work,” said Remlinger. “I don’t steal art, I free
it and let it roam in its natural environment.” When asked what environments he was going to free these particular
pieces into, Remlinger was unsure. “My fence doesn’t let me know that sort of stuff,” he said.

Remlinger, who will be pleading his case in front of a jury of his peers next month, will be auctioning
off his performance art piece “The Liberation of the VAC Art,” shortly after his trial.
