SPORTS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 2006 13

Ole ron you sports fans...

TRUMBO’S PICKS OF THE WEEK

So how many of you watched the game on Monday night? Those of you saying “which game?” have proven the
point I was just about to make: The NCAA Division I championship matters only to the fans of the teams
in it, in addition to a relatively small percentage of sports fans who just plain love college hoops. Feel free
to disagree with me, but at least take a poll. I’m willing to bet you’ll be surprised how many sports
spectators bowed out of spectating on Monday night.

Florida routed UCLA — as in, there was no question of the winner past halftime, no doubt that with just
under 18 minutes left and the Gators up 42-25, UCLA was heading home the best loser in the tournament. Unfortunately
for the teams, however, whose runs to the finals were probably the most exciting few months in the lives of
the players, at least until next year, Monday night’s game just didn’t live up to all the hoopla surrounding it
since March Madness began. To do so would be difficult, but Florida effectively steamrolled UCLA. They shut down offense, defense,
and the voices of their critics, and the game turned into a clinic. The price of the clinic? UCLA’s pride.

It’s like the first day of school, or prom, or New Year’s Eve, or eating an entire pint of Ben
and Jerry’s, in that expectation outdoes reality. You’ve heard too much hype about the tournament, and now you’re just a
little sick of it, as you would be after that entire pint of Chunky Monkey. Now that your team is
out (unless you’re a UCLA or Florida fan, in which case I'll tell you “maybe next year” or “congratulations”), you
are far less inclined to care. Duke and UNC fans were easily the most vocal groups here on campus, at
least in my opinion, and now all I hear is how they aren’t really all that interested now that their
teams went down in two fiery balls of defeat. Can you really say you’re a fan of the sport, then,
or are you only a fan of a particular region who wants to have bragging rights over all the other
aggregate regions, cities, and states?

From the Sideline By Monieaamouneau

If you watched the game, you’d know there were a few interesting moments interspersed between the total and painful destruction
of the Bruins. There was the time senior forward Ryan Hollins was substituted in wearing his warm-up jersey—a testament to
the mind games exacted on UCLA by the Gators and the incredible mental pressure just playing in the NCAA finals
has on players so young. As the writer of “The Simpsons” once said, “If I was under any more pressure,
I’d be a diamond.”

Then there was the fact that Florida committed only six turnovers in the entire game, a stat that nearly always
guarantees success. There were the UCLA cheerleaders who were apparently taunting the Gator players with comments like, “You’re so ugly,”
a tactic whose results may force them to be a little more sportsmanlike in the future. There were Joakim Noah’s
record-breaking five blocks in the first half and Adrian Moss’ surprising nine points. And there was the news that the
day before, UCLA basketball hero John Wooden had been admitted into a Los Angeles hospital to watch the game in
comfort and frustration from his reclinable bed. In a move that I don’t really regard as the most intelligent ever,
this information was passed down to players only a few minutes before the start of the game, like one more
rusty, emotional nail in UCLA’s coffin.

But the game was far less of a self-defeat by the Bruins than an active triumph by the Gators. Billy
Donovan had a nearly psychic connection with his PG and like he did against George Mason, Lee Humphrey was there
to donate some strategic three-pointers in the second half. Sophomore Noah nixed the Bruins’ offense and now, after his standout
year, has the chance to return to the team next year as preseason national player of the year or go
pro. The starting five, four sophomores and a junior, will no doubt be back next year to defend their title
with passion and experience. If you’re a Florida fan, be proud.

But while Monday was the end of expectation, it was also the beginning of something else. Sports fans not watching
the finals game had at least tuned into the opening day of Major League Baseball, whose season began with all
the ceremony and anticipation that March Madness had, and with a freshness that the finals lacked. UNC, Duke, LSU and
failed-Cinderella George Mason may have lost in the tournament, yes, but your baseball team has a whole season ahead of
it—and possibly a chance of postseason success. If you’re aCubs fan, you may have to wait a little longer to
see your dreams realized than everybody else, with Kerry Wood, Mark Prior, and Wade Miller on the DL. A.J. Burnett
is also taking a short medical break from the mound for the Blue Jays, but he will most likely only
miss two starts. Armando Benitez was yet another player down for Opening Day, and last year’s champs, the White Sox,
will be without Dustin Hermanson for an unknown amount of time. See Jamouneau, page 14.

Why the mid-majors deserve major attention
By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Senior Staff Writer

Monday night was the first time in years that I have not watched an NCAA Men’s Basketball Championship Game. I
am not entirely ashamed to say that, but then again, I’m certainly not proud of it. I think it’s not
really my fault. A lot of people didn’t watch the game. I was in the Union and walked by the
game multiple times, both in the 900 Room and on the big screen TV. No giant crowds cheered about every
bucket. No BSC-sponsored party (a la Super Bowl XL) drew people into the 900 Room. The campus just didn’t seem
to get into it this year.

This disappointment brought to you by the letters E, S, P, and N. Let’s think about what characterized this year’s
tournament. Mid-majors upsetting perennial powerhouse schools. Close-fought, defensive battles. Everyone and his sister scrambling to an open computer to look
up the names of George Mason’s starters so that they could seem knowledgeable... For the cruise to Hawaii, who can
tell me the preseason rankings of this year’s Final Four teams? Here’s a hint: only one was ranked. The ESPN/USA
Today Coaches’ Poll at the outset of the season put UCLA at number 18. LSU was 43 votes away from
being ranked. Florida received seven votes total. George Mason probably hadn’t sold out a single home game yet. But I
will give credit where credit is due. In week 16, analysts foreshadowed their semifinal berth with a number 25 ranking
for the Patriots. It was the only time all year that GMU snuck into the top 25, but other factors
were more important. Teams such as Duke, Gonzaga, and Boston College—all almost good enough to make the Elite Eight—needed to
be put first.

Okay, so the polls were a terrible indication of who would be in the running for the championship. And yes,
I’m in the midst of a shameless Monday morning quarterback routine. But the effect of ESPN on public knowledge of
basketball reaches far beyond who’s in the polls. Sports broadcasting media hype has barred us from watching anything but the
teams with huge national followings. As this year’s Madness—aptly named for the first time in my memory—proved, the mid-majors are
just as capable as the ACC and the Big 10. Neither of whom, incidentally, sent a representative to the Elite
Eight.

I bet you didn’t know that George Mason almost failed to make the tournament this year. I bet you didn’t
know that they were in an overtime game in the quarterfinals of their conference tournament that could have kept them
on the couch instead of downing Michigan State, UNC, and UConn. I bet you didn’t know because it wasn’t on
TV. Instead, on Mar. 4, 2006, the ESPN network dedicated three channels to one game. While the Patriots were in
a dogfight against Georgia State in the Colonial Athletic Association Tournament, ESPN2 showed us solely above-the-rim action all night. ESPN-U
spent the night zooming in on well-painted fans. Don’t get me wrong; I was in a bar in Charleston for
the Carolina-Duke game and anyone who was with me can tell you that, had someone changed the channel, I would
currently be awaiting trial on manslaughter charges. That remains one of the greatest games of the year in my mind.
But three channels of it was excessive. And it has been typical of ESPN to broadcast only the games that
involve Carolina, Duke, UConn, and other top-ranked teams. I’d bet that George Mason didn’t make the national broadcasts all year
until CBS put up the first-round game against Michigan State. Even Florida and UCLA, who were in and out of
the rankings throughout the year, were hard to find on the idiot box.

Sports broadcasting media hype has barred us from watching anything but the teams with huge national followings. As this year’s
Madness—aptly named for the first time in my memory—proved, the mid-majors are just as capable as the ACC and the
Big 10. Neither of whom, incidentally, sent a representative to the Elite Eight.

Maybe I was uninterested in the Championship Game because I knew very little about Florida and UCLA. Maybe that makes
me an ignorant basketball fan. But if that is the case, I’m not the only one. We are an ignorant
basketball nation. So Dick Vitale will remain squarely atop my list of “People Who Make Me Dumb Just by Talking.”
