THE DAVIDSONIAN

Visiting professor and “Charlotte Observer” editor Jennie Buckner spoke on Monday.

NEWS

Former ‘Observer’ editor speaks on media reform

By AMELIA RICHMOND
Staff Writer

Jennie Buckner, former editor of the “Charlotte Observer” and visiting professor, delivered the annual Batten Lecture entitled “Saving Journalism, Saving Democracy: How Citizens Can Reform Mass Media” in Tyler-Tallman Hall on Monday. Buckner’s speech focused on the decline of credible journalism and the growing media reform movement. She targeted three major threats to the news media: growing business pressures, increasing entertainment values, and the dramatic drop of young news readers. Buckner addressed the importance of media reform and potential solutions to the threats she outlined.

Mounting business pressures have led to dramatic cost cuts in newsrooms across the nation, resulting in a decline in quality journalism. According to Buckner, Wall Street is instigating heavy cost controls in hopes of squeezing higher margins from news media companies. “The system makes it increasingly harder to produce quality journalism,” Buckner said. Buckner also commented on the repercussions of these impending cost controls, including a significant decrease in local newspapers. As cost controls hinder an organization’s ability to produce quality news, an increasing number of people are tuning out local news and tuning in to national news. Studies conducted show that those who read national news are less likely to vote or participate within their communities. “When The Times moves in, participation in the community decreases,” Buckner said.

Katherine Swain ’06, a student in Buckner’s Journalism Ethics class, was interested in the national vs. local news argument. “I thought it was really interesting how she linked civic participation to voting rates. If young people become more involved in their communities perhaps we will see an increase in voting rates,” Swain said.

According to Buckner, the second threat to journalism is increasing entertainment values in the media. As stations continue to gear their news towards what sells, the public loses a reliable source of information and its faith in the media. Buckner said that one is 50 times more likely to see a murder than child care or education issues on the evening news. In addition, local politics receive almost no coverage. She added that people are often supplied with news that feeds their standing opinions rather than unbiased journalism that might challenge their current beliefs.

Buckner argued that the third threat to credible journalism is young people’s dramatic drop of interest in the news. Throughout history, young people have been a major source of social reform and media reform is no exception. Buckner quoted one of her seminar students who concluded that for young people to regain interest in the news, “The news would just have to matter more.”

Following the lecture, an audience member pointed out that Buckner was asking for a cultural revolution. She agreed that this was in fact what she had in mind. Throughout her lecture, Buckner suggested several plans for reform, including implementing more news literacy programs in schools, integrating news-related questions into the college interview process, and creating more news councils, which are working in several states to restore news credibility. Buckner also suggested a sponsored forum in which students and journalists could get together and discuss the future of journalism. On a smaller scale, she suggested that the journalism landscape can be improved by such simple acts as emailing a friend an interesting news article or discussing new legislation over lunch.

“She is such an intelligent, driven, and compassionate speaker. Whether in a lecture in an auditorium or in the classroom, she moves me to want to do something about the junk we are consuming as news,” Brittany Crawford ’08 said.

Research, from page 2

“I am grateful for the opportunity to work with a well-known herpetologist,” Cecala said of Dorcas. Though Dorcas will assist students and work with them, he grants them a significant amount of freedom in their research. “I help students with questions, direct them in the right ways, but allow an amount of independence in developing and conducting experiments,” Dorcas said.

Jax Lacaire ’07 received an Abernathy grant for research with her advisor Dana Professor of English Cynthia Lewis. The details of her project are not yet final, but she will be performing research in addition to traveling with Lewis to conduct and transcribe interviews. Lacaire’s research possibilities include examining Americans’ understanding of grammar or looking at women’s obsession with shoes. Students generally agree that they hope to publish their research findings. “My ultimate goal is to get our summer research results published in a peer-reviewed journal,” DiLuzio said.

Forum, from page 1

selection process to the “sorting hat in Harry Potter” because a lottery system sends mass numbers of women to each house. Davenport also hopes that a new eating house could attract a different group of women to Patterson Court by working with the new historically black sorority. “Every eating house has two events to recruit freshmen, one alcoholic event and one non-alcoholic event. There are 12 houses...On Patterson Court, eight of these organizations are men’s organizations. Each of the women’s houses has over 100 members. There are less than 80 for all of the men’s houses,” said Sara Madison Davenport ’07. 

“One non-alcoholic event,” Davenport said. “They are all appealing to the same kind of person. We’re just too gosh darn homogeneous, and it’s really hard to get involved. If you put people in small organizations like fraternities, it makes a difference.”

Sean Chan ’06 proposed giving the house to the Asian Cultural Awareness Association (ACAA). “The members of the ACAA and the constituency that we represent have been largely overlooked,” Chan said. “We have grown enough, and we have enough leadership and structure.” According to Chan, ACAA members are interested in starting a meal plan so that they could utilize every aspect of the house.

Matt Hassett ’08 asked that the P.S. student-run restaurant be allowed to have secondary use of the house so that the group could have a continuous venue. After the presentations, students were invited to question McCrory, Gupta, Davenport, and Chan. Some students raised concerns about whether the ACAA needed full-time use of the house. Chan estimated that there are 30-40 active ACAA members and about 80 who attend every other event. He said that the house would be used at least twice a week for general and board meetings. According to Chan, since about 95 percent of ACAA members do not belong to a Patterson Court organization, there is interest in a meal plan.

Gary, however, stressed that the ACAA would face steep costs if it offered a meal plan. “It’s going to cost between $600 and $1,000 for a meal plan,” Gary said. “You’re going to face a fixed cost per week. The cook is going to cost you; the food is going to cost you. The difference between 20 and 30 members is not going to change your meal plan costs.”

WEDNESDAY, May 3, 2006

Students questioned Davenport about whether she would be able to reduce the number of women in eating houses if she also wanted to attract new women to Patterson Court. Davenport believes that forming an eating house with women who have never belonged to Patterson Court would foster a distinct identity and allow it to retain its members. “If you put in one house that has a definitive message, you would create a demand for other houses,” she said.

Liz Dover ’07, another former CoHo member, emphasized the difficulty of being an alternative house. Davenport acknowledged that the first few years would be difficult for the new house. “The house would not be popular in the first year,” she said. “But in the first year, the eating house would have as many members as half of the men’s fraternities.”

Brendan Watkins ’07 supported Davenport’s proposal. “You have to give someone an opportunity before you put down their stuff,” he said. “They’re in a system that’s guaranteed to succeed. They’ve got the numbers, and it’s going to happen eventually.”

Before McCrory and Gupta fielded questions, Vagt asked the Director of Auxiliary Services to explain the logistics of running an Outpost. According to Terry, the grill aspect of the Outpost was self-sustaining and actually made profits during its last few years. He emphasized, however, that the Outpost opened when the old Union closed and that the hours at the current Union Café correspond with the Outpost’s former hours. Terry and Director of the Union William Brown said that there were also complaints from Outpost workers about the condition of restrooms and student behavior.

“I would support that [a new Outpost], but we would have to be headed toward a different kind of Outpost than what was the experience before,” Brown said. Brown also questioned whether the Union could remain a viable weekend spot if the Outpost reopened. “The Union Board would probably move its entire program to the new Outpost,” Brown said.

McCrory and Gupta, however, do not believe that students will stop going to the Union. “There can be overlap, and there can be innovation and student initiative,” Gupta said. “There is a question of how it’s going to affect the Union traffic, but I don’t think that the Union is going to die out.”

Another issue raised was whether the house could truly be a middle ground between Patterson Court and the Union if it were located in the middle of the Court. The final decision for filling the vacancy will be made in the fall. Vagt, however, will correspond with the proponents of the three proposals over the summer.

Attention! All Davidson College Professors, English Majors, and Alums wanting to get back to North Carolina! We have numerous businesses for sale in the greater Davidson College area, such as an upscale tanning salon, a coffee shop, a franchise truck accessories store, and more. A perfect business for a Davidsonian, however, is a bookstore with the following features:
- Well-established for over 13 years
- Large inventory of used books (over 40,000!)
- Increasing sales volume over the internet
- Large repeat customer base
- Some seller financing available

For more information call CFC, Inc. at 704-650-6630.