THE DAVIDSONIAN

Phones, from page 1

to consider every angle and possible impact of the change. Under the new plan, on calls made from campus phone lines the room number, not the name of the resident, will appear on caller ID. Muchane said that Public Safety would still be able to identify the location of incoming calls.

Muchane discussed the proposed changes with the Student Government Association and felt they were understanding and supportive of the new plan, offering positive feedback. Generally, students appear unconcerned with the change.

“I never even set up my room phone this year. I don’t anticipate this change will affect me very much at all,” Page Bomar ’07 said.

Cal Nannes ’07 understood the rationale behind the new plan. “Cell phones are becoming much more popular and as a result, most students rarely use their room phones. I know a few people who don’t even have their landlines plugged in or an active voicemail,” Nannes said.

Brian Helfrich ’07, however, had some reservations about the new plan. “I have used the personal landline phone a lot because of my poor on-campus cell service,” Helfrich said. He is also worried that a communal phone will infringe on privacy for phone calls.

Muchane is determined to continue investigating better ways to serve students with cell phones. Since students are not using landline phones, he wants to improve the services they are using. He is looking into plans about the possibility of constructing a cell phone tower on campus. This addition to the campus would enable students to receive better cell phone service and reception from multiple carriers.

Additionally, Muchane is looking toward the future of telephone technology. Increasingly, technology is shifting towards the convergence of telephone and data networks. Costs will likely decline as a result, because phone and internet services will use the same network.

“It is unfortunate that we’ve had to do this, but it’s the march of technology,” Muchane said.

Robin French ‘07 chats with a friend on her dorm phone.

Gordon discusses court cases on school funding and prayer

By Lexi Hamilton
News Editor

University of Penn. Professor Dr. Sarah Barringer Gordon delivered the annual Kendrick K. Kelley Lecture last Sunday in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room on “The Almighty Dollar: How School Funding and Prayer Came to the Supreme Court.”

Professor Sarah Barringer Gordon

Gordon outlined the role that the Supreme Court plays in shaping history, particularly the legal history of religion, in the United States. “While academics often speak of the Supreme Court’s ability to interpret history,” Gordon said, “few talk about the Supreme Court’s role in making history.”

Gordon cited the Supreme Court decisions in Everson v. Board of Education and Engel v. Vitale. She said the cases highlight the ways in which the court system impacts religion and “makes” history in the United States.

The Supreme Court handed down a 5-4 ruling in the 1947 Everson case. The case upheld the constitutionality of a New Jersey law that allowed the state to reimburse parents for transportation expenses to and from schools, many of which were Catholic parochial institutions. The controversial Everson case provided greater definition to the establishment clause of the First Amendment. It also incited conflict between Catholics and Protestants. Protestants felt that the decision demonstrated Catholic favoritism.

The Engel v. Vitale case, however, illustrated that preceding case law that found favor with certain religious sects would not necessarily work to their advantage in future cases. In a 6-1 decision during 1962, the Supreme Court overturned the constitutionality of the New York law which would require school children to recite a non-denominational prayer at the beginning of the school day.The monumental decision sent shock- See Kelley, page 4

NEWS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 2006

Honor Code concerns brought to Senate floor

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

The Student Government Association (SGA) heard presentations from Information Technology Services (ITS), the Diversity Coordinating Committee (DCC), and the Activities Tax Council (ATC) at last Thursday’s SGA meeting.

Information technology specialist Christy Shi ’96 explained that ITS plans to redesign the Davidson College website. The project will provide the leaders of student organizations with templates to add content to the website in a uniform fashion. “We want to create more of a presence for student organizations,” Shi said. The new website will target specific audiences with links from the main page for students, faculty, alumni, and parents. Additionally, a central campus calendar will list all meetings, athletic events, concerts, lectures, and other happenings.

After the ITS presentation, Brandon Carroll ’06 spoke concerning potential misapplications of the Honor Code by administrators in connection with the new member violation investigations conducted against Sigma Phi Epsilon last spring and Sigma Alpha Epsilon this year. He explained that students question how the Code is applied outside of the classroom. Carroll explained that some freshmen pledges who were questioned by members of the administration received the impression that they were Honor-bound to answer. According to Carroll, the Code of Disciplinary Procedures only permits administrators to compel testimony from student witnesses, excluding the accused, when the Honor Council holds a trial hearing.

ATC Chair Wilson McCrory ’07 also spoke. “This is not a black and white issue. The administration does need to know what is happening if there is hazing going on,” McCrory said.

Following the discussion of the Honor Code, Justin Eusebio ’09 and Nate Shestak ’07 asked SGA to support a resolution encouraging the North Carolina state legislature to divest from state public funds, such as the North Carolina Retirement Systems, which invest in companies that operate in Sudan. Since February 2003, the Sudanese government has displaced 2.5 million of its citizens and perpetuated genocide against over 400,000 of its people in the Darfur region. SGA President Mac Skelton ’07 asked Eusebio to bring a formal resolution to the next SGA meeting so that the body may vote on the issue.

McCrory then presented the ATC allocation recommendations for the 2006-2007 academic year. ATC is responsible for allocating approximately 0.5 percent of the total tuition to student organizations. Due in part to an increase in the student activities fee, ATC has more money to allocate this spring than it did last spring. According to McCrory, the number of organizations requesting funding also increased from about 40 to 52. SGA will vote on the ATC budget at next week’s meeting.

After the ATC presentation, DCC Chair Whitney White ’08 approached SGA with a resolution to alter the DCC’s structure. She wants to change DCC from an umbrella organization for the cultural diversity groups on campus to an alliance amongst its member organizations. “Right now, it’s reactive, but we want to become more proactive,” White said. White petitioned SGA to create six spots for DCC representatives, explaining that DCC represents about a dozen campus organizations. Skelton proposed that SGA vote on the resolution at its next meeting.

SGA representative Gagan Gupta ’07 then presented a resolution to create an SGA general council for the upcoming academic year. The individual who fills the position will be responsible for acquiring an in-depth working knowledge of the College Constitution, the Red Book, the bylaws of SGA, of the Honor Council, and of the Patterson Court Council and other important governing documents in order to inform students of their rights under specific circumstances. The resolution passed by a unanimous vote.