THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 2006

A tribute to Davidson basketball

Re-New Orleans

Going to New Orleans for spring break was a refreshing change of place and perspective from such a spic ‘n’ span Davidson lifestyle. I went down with the Campus Outreach group to volunteer with Desire Street Ministries, a Christian ministry founded in 1990 by a white man, Mo Leverett, who moved his family into the all-black neighborhood with the goal of bringing up leaders from within the community rather than importing them from without. Mind you, the Desire project (the Ninth Ward) was the murder capital of the U.S. at this time.

The Ninth Ward was a haunting ghost town. The area was crammed with houses, warehouses, restaurants, businesses, traffic lights, but there was no one to be found. It was like I had gone deaf in a busy city, but then I realized there was no action either. There were a few other cars on the road, but basically there was silence and emptiness. We stayed in the damaged gymnasium and cafeteria of Desire Street Academy, a private Christian boys’ school, founded in 2002, that furthers the goal of the ministry (and has been temporarily relocated to Florida as a boarding school). We faced cold showers and scant electricity from generators, but we had a great time tearing down walls, kicking down doors, and ripping out floors of waterlogged houses. More difficult was throwing away people’s possessions. Most importantly, we provided a small part of the much-needed clean-up service that must precede the rebuilding process in New Orleans. And before you tell me, “They shouldn’t rebuild. It’s just gonna get wiped out again,” you go talk to the people who lived there and who still aren’t back.

I didn’t meet any Ninth Ward natives except the ones running Desire Street Ministries. It is true that many residents of the Ninth Ward were relieved to be forced out of the violence- and drug-ravaged community.

CAREY BAXTER

The French Quarter appeared unscathed, as did the Mardi Gras partiers who came to help none but themselves. How about reviving the spirit of New Orleans by helping to rebuild? But talk to others and they want to come home. Would you be eager to start a new life with new people in an unfamiliar place? Yes, another Katrina could happen. Wouldn’t you still build your summerhouse on the beach? With this in mind, evacuation plans, vehicles, and equipment must be made ready, especially for those who don’t have cars. Though the severity of Katrina was not known until the storm was imminent, there is no excuse for the government’s lack of emergency aid. Two children watched their grandmother die while living on their roof for two days awaiting rescue. Clean-up crews, most of which are volunteer or independent organizations rather than government-run, are still finding bodies. There is no excuse. Even if the feds couldn’t get their acts together when the storm was hitting, how about now, six months later? The most damaged areas were, naturally, the poorest: the communities right near the levy that broke. The French Quarter appeared unscathed, as did the Mardi Gras partiers who came to help none but themselves (how about reviving the spirit of New Orleans by helping to rebuild?). Things take time, but even now it looks like the hurricane happened weeks ago in the lower Ninth Ward. There are houses in the middle of the street, houses on top of cars, houses broken in half, debris everywhere. Desire Street Ministries is an amazing and promising presence in New Orleans. I would love to see the improvement continue in a safer, happier, rebuilt Ninth Ward. While we at Davidson plan to save the world from our safely Ph.D.ed positions, it’s important to get down and dirty to help people—something that our government is obviously not willing to do.

Carey Baxter ’08 is a physics major from Monkton, Md. Contact her at cabaxter@davidson.edu.

In honor of Ian Johnson (1) tying his career high of 26 points in Friday’s first-half domination of Ohio State, this column about Wildcat Basketball will present, for your entertainment, a 26 point homage to Pat Forde (2), whose minutes will be sorely missed in the next few months.

My love of Wildcat Basketball goes back almost as far as Bob McKillop’s (3) coaching reign at Davidson. Chris Alpert (4), one of the stars of our last team to go undefeated in the SoCon, taught me how to shoot. I watched Davidson star Brandon Williams (5) lead the team to a great season in ’96 and I got in touch with my Irish heritage by befriending Michael Bree (6), Matt McKillop’s (7) inspiration for wearing the number four. I’ve been through the ups and downs, and Friday was certainly a downer, but anyone who thinks that the past three seasons have been anything but an “up” need to think otherwise. These years have been great years to be Wildcats, thanks in no small part to team leaders like Logan Kosmalski (8) and Brendan Winters (9). But my years of student fandom wouldn’t be the best four I will ever have as a Wildcat fan without the unsung heroes on and off the court. Nathan Bradshaw (10) is the greatest rubber chicken catcher in Davidson history. Jaimie Matthews (11) has brought great cheerleading to my section during the games, Andrew Ruth (12) is the best unofficial cheerleader a section could ask for, and the Pines People for Davidson (13) have shown us that fandom knows no age. Andy Agcaolli (14) has been a great cheerleader on SGA, working with myself and the other senators over the past three years to facilitate the Student Body’s love affair with athletics. Props to SGA and Robert Frederick Vagt ’69 (15) for the buses. Additionally, Bonnie Clarke (16) has kept me dressed for Davidson’s success at home, and Jamie

You signed it, so it seems the Davidson honor code is not as perfect as we would all like to believe. Judging from articles in the Davidsonian last week, notOnly are students stealing from the Union Café, but they are behaving like spoiled kids. Considering Davidson is known for its pristine honor code and respectful and morally upright student body, what does this say about the state of the college today? Is it a sign of a lower quality of Davidson student? Or does this regression in honor and truthfulness indicate a general, nationwide deterioration in the manners and conduct of college-aged students? Either way, these trends suggest a dark future. Even if you try to attribute this petty theft and disrespect to a nationwide trend, Davidson still comes out looking pretty bad. There really is no excuse for this type of abusive behavior on our campus, especially towards campus personnel. These men and women clean our campus, fix our facilities, and feed us. Yes, we may see ourselves as capable, busy, intelligent, important scholars, but when you stop and take a look at your life here, can you really make it seem that arduous? When was the last time you washed your own clothes?

SAM SPENCER
Halley’s Comment
HALLEY AELION

When was the last time you cooked your own meal? For some Davidson students, yes, these are everyday realities. But for the vast majority of us, the hardest part of laundry is carrying a neatly folded, pre-packaged bundle up a couple flights of stairs. Kind of hard to complain about that when most college kids are paying to do their own laundry. Harder to complain about that when you think of people who are doing laundry all day long to make a living. Impossible to complain about that when you think about the people who don’t have enough clothes to make laundry a chore at all. So when was the last time you thanked the laundry staff at Davidson? Same goes for the Union Café staff, where student behavior literally has depreciated to criminal levels. We may think Hendricks (17) and Cody Chaney (18) have made sure I got good seats on the road. In the end, however, it’s the people on the court that make Davidson Basketball what it is. All year, and especially in Friday’s game, Kenny Grant (19) ran our offense like it was a Fortune 500 company. It was a blast to see Davidson’s very own Watson Scholar Chris Clunie (20) get some court time in the NCAA Tourney, and Boris Meno’s (21) great defensive game on Friday and his amazing dunk at the SoCon Tournament make him a shoo-in for Most Improved Player. Incidentally, the last time I did Davidson Basketball Camp, Coach McKillop bestowed that honor upon me after I shot 4/4 from downtown in our championship game, the only time I shot better than the aforementioned Matt. But I digress. Jason Morton’s (22) shooting carried our team for much of the second half of the season. Eric Blancett (23) led us to an awesome victory against Georgia Southern earlier in the season, and Thomas Sander (24) will be a reason to watch next year. By the way, Thomas’s Mom (25) told me to thank everyone who came on the bus to Dayton. You don’t know how much your fandom means to the parents of our players. I could use the last point to congratulate any of our players for their efforts this year. Everyone on our team deserves it, and I know they’ve made the past three years great for myself and my friends, encouraging us to do crazy things like driving to Maryland on no sleep, camping outside of Baker Sports Complex, and spending 16 hours on a bus for one game. This fandom is well deserved. It takes a lot of class to play Davidson Basketball. These guys work their mid-major hearts out to give us entertainment that’s a thousand times better than the best Ashley Judd (26) movie. It’s going to be hard losing seven seniors, but I want to assure the haters and the doubters that Davidson College Basketball will be as good and as fun as ever in 2007. Thanks all you Wildcats, on and off the court, for making the last three years great. I hope to see all of you next year.

Sam Spencer ’07 is a physics and political science double major from Davidson, N.C. Contact him at saspencer@davidson.edu.

So respect it. We’re really funny when we’re drunk at 2 AM on a Wednesday, but the joke loses its appeal when you’ve heard it a billion times from faceless students staggering in to order food. It gets really unfunny when ordering food turns into demanding food, which turns into verbal abuse or drunken stealing. Then there’s the other possibility, even worse: sober stealing. Not only is this a crime in everyday life, but the fact that it’s being done by Davidson students on their own campus is ridiculous. It breaks so many legal rules and Davidson principles it boggles the mind. There really is no excuse for this type of abusive behavior on our campus, especially towards campus personnel. I’m not even going to go into how many people have complained about friends or acquaintances taking stuff from their unlocked rooms, especially food. That’s a subject for a whole other article. This campus gives us everything for four years, and yet we abuse it. Yes, Davidson is pricey, but that does not mean we’re entitled to take more than we’re given. And furthermore, if Davidson students would take advantage of the legitimate ways to get money from this campus, I can’t imagine how much good would be done. The college basically throws money at students looking to travel, looking to explore, looking to start groups or head up charities, yet we spend our time staggering around the café stealing tea. I have no doubt Davidson is one of the best colleges in the country with some of the best people I will ever know on its campus. But that doesn’t mean we can’t improve. Right now it looks like our focus needs to be on ourselves as students and people. We all signed the Davidson Honor Code but now we need to live up to it.

Halley Aelion ’08 is a French major from Bowie, Md. Contact her at haaelion@davidson.edu.