12 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2006

Away games continue to pose problems for ’Cats

By WILL BRYAN
Senior Staff Writer

The 2005-2006 basketball season has been a tale of two teams. One could look at Davidson’s conference-leading margin of victory and home wins over St. Joe’s, UMass, and Missouri and be convinced that this is one of the best Wildcat squads in recent history. One could also argue that inconsistency has plagued a team that has lost five out of eight conference road games and has been unable to come back from a halftime deficit.

Last Saturday, the Wildcats epitomized coach Bob McKillop’s philosophy of enjoying the moment and playing one game at a time. Against the team that broke the Wildcats’ 27-game record for conference victories, the Wildcats (16-10, 9-5) gave the Furman Paladins a lesson in aggressive, fundamental basketball. Davidson jumped out to a 28-9 lead in the first half that was capped off by a Jason Morton ’06 three-pointer, his 11th in a row, dating back to the Wofford game. The mark set a new team and conference record for consecutive three-point baskets.

Like many opponents before them this year, the Paladins seemed stunned in the first half and were never able to get closer than 15 points, falling by a final margin of 77-59. The Wildcats were paced by a double-double from Thomas Sander ’08, who finished with 10 points and 11 rebounds, and Ian Johnson ’06, who had a game-high 20 points. The Wildcats finished with 34 points in the paint, showing the interior dominance that continually forces Davidson foes to double down when the ball goes down low. Davidson’s aggressive style of play also meant that the Wildcats had more offensive boards and second-chance points than they had had in recent games.

Morton and Matt McKillop ’06 sparked the defense as they shut down the Paladins’ perimeter game, holding shooters Eric Webb and Robby Bostain to just 10 total points and 1-4 shooting from three-point range. “I really thought Matt showed some grit out there today,” said McKillop. “We played with high energy, and I’m really proud of our guys.”

Apart from the College of Charleston, Davidson has faced all top-five teams in the Southern Conference at Belk Arena and come away with resounding victories. In a departure from last year’s heart-stopping thrillers, Davidson has opened up games in the first half this season, holding a league-leading 9.5 average margin of victory. Kenny Grant ’06 continued to direct the floor as he dished out a game-high nine assists to help maintain the Wildcats’ league-leading assist mark and sixth ranking in the nation in that category. “Our hallmark is unselfish play that opens up the floor,” said McKillop. “And Kenny has really developed into the floor leader that keeps that together.”

The victory over Furman also marked a pivotal performance by the Davidson fan base. After consecutive home games with underwhelming attendance, the Wildcat supporters showed up in droves and waved their white towels in an impressive display for the TV.

See Men’s Basketball, page 10

Ian Johnson ’06 had 20 points against Furman.

Appalachian State wins with strong second half

Jessica Mitchell ’07 led the ’Cats in scoring, with 17 points.

By SUZIE ECKL & PIERCE TRUMBO
Staff Writer & Sports Editor

With 17 points, Jessica Mitchell ’07 led the Wildcats in scoring as they put away their 15th win of the season, defeating the Wofford Terriers 58-43 on Saturday. Although Davidson did not shoot well during the game, with only a 37.7 percent shooting percentage, Mitchell, Brynn Kelly ’07, and Janell Crayton ’06 finished in double digits. Kelly got her third double-double of the season with 14 points and 10Rebounds. In her second start of the season, Kelly Gassie ’09 started the scoring for the game with a free throw. For Davidson, made free throws were few and far between on the night. Only nine of 17 were hit for a grim 52.9 percent. In the first 10 minutes, the Wildcats recorded six steals, while Wofford committed 11 turnovers. The Terriers managed to keep the game tied at 13 with less than nine minutes on the clock, but a strong offensive effort by the Wildcats caused them to finish the first half with a 13-4 run and a healthy nine-point lead.

“I think we just got in the flow. We made some great defensive stops—our defense is always what sparks our offense,” said Kelly.

Returning to the court, Wofford put in seven points to Davidson’s one in the first two minutes to cut Davidson’s lead to three. That was as close as the Terriers would come for the rest of the evening, however, as the ’Cats wasted no time in building their lead to as many as 16. Wofford’s last field goal came at the 6:58 mark with a shot by Mary Jo Yee in the paint. Their final five points of the game came off free throws.

In their next game, the team suffered a 74-68 loss against Appalachian State. The game started well as the ’Cats took a 27-21 lead with back-to-back three-pointers by Mitchell and Kelly. But a 12-3 run by the Mountaineers stole the ’Cats momentum and left them trailing 30-33 at the half. After the break, the ’Cats responded with their own 13-4 run to take a 43-37 lead at the 12:40 mark, but four Mountaineer three-pointers in as many minutes quickly changed the game. The women again found themselves on the wrong side of a 51-44 score and were never able to get closer than five points for the rest of the game.

The team was led by guards Gassie and Mitchell, both of whom had 18 points. At small forward, Danielle Hermerka ’08 also had a solid outing with 14 points on 7-14 shooting. Down low, however, the team struggled to convert as Kelly and Crayton combined for only 10 points on 2-16 shooting. Mercedes Robinson ’09 also shot only 3-11 from the field, but did grab a team-high 12 rebounds. One bright spot for the ’Cats was ball-handling. They only turned the ball over 11 times, a particularly impressive statistic considering that starting point guard Tia Washington ’07 is out due to injury. All in all, the ’Cats poor shooting (34.3 percent) made it difficult to win the game. With the loss, Davidson is now 11-6 in the SoCon and 15-11 overall. The team next plays at home against Furman.

“We’re just going to take each game one at a time and hopefully get ourselves in a good position going into the tournament,” said Kelly.

Player of the Week
© Janell Crayton ‘06
Women’s Basketball
Hometown: Atlanta, Ga.
Major: Anthropology

Crayton has had a phenomenal week for the Wildcats, picking up 18 points against Elon last Wednesday and 10 against Wofford on Saturday. In the Elon game, a 60-47 win for the ’Cats, she hit a career-high four three-pointers and tied her personal best with four blocks.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Phillip Compeau’s (’08) tiebreaker against Lees-McRae

With a decisive win in the tiebreaker of his first set, the No. 4 singles player brought himself a huge step closer to scoring a point for Davidson against Lees-McRae on Monday. Winning the first set turned out to be key for Compeau, whose 7-5 victory in the second set helped his tennis team to its 7-4 victory.