. ARTS IN THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 2006

Small town evils exposed in “Rimers of Eldritch”

By PAIGE TAYLOR
Staff Writer

Struggling with the aftershocks of a moral earthquake that has rocked their small Midwestern town, the people of Eldritch are
forced to confront the demons of rape and the repercussions of being close-minded. The lovers, friends, and enemies in the
play exchange words reflective of their individual attempts to hide guilt, cut short intimacy, and put up fronts that ultimately
prove fragile. Small-town scandal, gossip, and speculation reign supreme in Lanford Wilson’s “The Rimers of Eldritch,” which takes the stage
in the Duke Family Performance Hall beginning Mar. 29.

Rape is the undercurrent in this river of clashing neighbors, and the characters egg each other on with provocative dialogue
to which anyone from a small community should be able to relate. Visiting Associate Professor of Theatre Jack Beasley, the
director of this spring’s annual Theatre Department production, honed this dialogue intentionally through extensive, all-cast rehearsals. To capture the climactic
nature of Wilson’s play, set during the tumultuous 1960s, Beasley decided to have all characters on stage during each of
the scenes. The scenes, which have no definite beginning, middle, or end, create continuous action that reflects the rapid pace
of change during the decade. With what Beasley calls a “collage effect,” the actors revert from familiar, realistic models that
most are used to and use their reactions and lines to guide the audience through the ethical drama. To achieve
this effect, Beasley needed the full participation of the 16-member cast at rehearsals. Finding a group of Davidson students with
coinciding schedules, however, is what Beasley cited as his biggest challenge involved in this semester’s production.

As described on Oklahoma State University’s theatre department website, “the play grasps at the very fabric of bible-belt America, with
its catchword morality and capability for the vicious.” Davidson’s student actors grapple with this viciousness, this hostile politeness hidden in
words that forces an audience to realize similar moral ambiguity still in existence today. The tension between the characters, caught
in a matrix of intimacy and secrets, gives rise to poignant moments throughout the play. Walter, played by Ross MacDonald
‘08, is truly the personification of the town’s inward struggle. Whenever he gets close to a sensitive issue, balancing on
the edge of honesty, his forced carelessness makes his emotions blindingly evident. He must quickly return to his conventional swagger
to ensure that any carelessly thrown-about words do not shatter his comfortable existence. This fear of intimacy and vulnerability permeates
every conversation on stage.

Beasley envisions a stage of broken levels — railings pitted against a free-fall and room exposed to perceptive visitors. I’ll
be eager to see how the actors use their space while portraying the emotional and unavoidable tension between their characters
that is sewn into the fibers of the text. With the blocking, both literal and theoretical, created by Beasley and
stage managers Briana Hunter ’08 and Steve Foglia ’09, each character’s gestures and steps transform emotion into action. The stage
and set remain simple, though, and the townspeople’s movements do not speak as loud as their words. Their voices, however,
are stilted at times, and the emphasis is often dependent on the actors’ tone. Herein lies the challenge of such
an interpretive play; the actors must treat the script as yeast in bread, where poorly-applied emotion or inflection either dries
out or collapses the play’s form. With Melanie Farmer’s and Steve Kaliski’s professional ease and talent for familiar, self-explanatory tones,
this production promises to captivate any audience. With its double-meanings that pervade the double-standards of small town society, the “Rimers
of Eldritch” touches on the essence of man’s fear of vulnerability.

“Rimers of Eldritch” will be showing in Duke Family Performance Hall from Mar. 29 until Apr. 2. Tickets for the
performances, which are $12 for the general public, $10 for faculty and staff, $8 for seniors and $6 for students,
are currently available from the Union Box Office.

“V for Vendetta” loud, angry, and action-packed

By STEVE KALISKI
Senior Staff Writer

Those who avoid “V for Vendetta” for its supposedly abundant political commentaries needNot worry anymore. I assure you that this
new rabble-rouser from the grandiose minds of the “Matrix”-famed Wachowski brothers does not make a single political statement. No, the
film makes no statements whatsoever. Everything “V for Vendetta” says about politics, it screams in capital letters and ends in
a chain of exclamation points. A possible tagline for the film might read, “DOWN WITH CORRUPT GOVERNMENT!!!! DOWN WITH IT!!!!
DOWN WITH IT NOW!!!”

The world V lives in is a post-modern Britain marked by totalitarian rule. Cautionary to the point of exhilarating overabundance,
this angry, point-blank, undeniably animate thriller does not ask for your attention; it kidnaps it and holds it ruthlessly hostage.
Still, much like the film’s heroine Evey, played by Natalie Portman, who develops an unlikely friendship with her masked captor
V, played by Hugo Weaving, I found this excessive ideological abuse strangely endearing. Perhaps “Vendetta’s” rare big-budget willingness to say
it loud and proud compensates for the deafening roar of its provocation.

Set in 2020 London, the movie imagines that, while the United States has collapsed from civil war, England has survived
because of the fascist intervention of its Big Brother dictator Adam Sutler, played by John Hurt. Sutler’s regime displays all
of the symptoms of totalitarian rule: strict curfews, exhaustive censorship, and citizens either too terrified or too complacent to question
their oppression. Evey, a TV station employee with a problematic past, almost becomes the victim of a late-night assault, but
a masked swashbuckling savior rescues her and takes her under his wing. She soon learns that this V, a sensitive
yet vengeful rebel, actually has a meticulous plan to overthrow Sutler’s rule.

V’s character is based on British revolutionary Guy Fawkes, who was a leader in the 1605 Gunpowder Plot in Great
Britain. To fight what they perceived as the oppression of the English Protestant church, a group of Roman Catholic conspirators
led by Fawkes attempted to assassinate King James I and members of Parliament by hiding 2.5 tons of gunpowder in
the Parliamentary Houses’ cellars. Fawkes’ plot was foiled, however, after authorities caught him with the gunpowder. While his revolutionary plans
consequently failed, his story did become fodder for the Wachowski brothers’ newest release.

V, with his characteristically mischievous grin, schemes up more revolutionary ideas. Whether an activist, a patriot, or a terrorist, the
character V clearly cares for Evey, and he eventually draws her into his plot. As she learns more about him,
she realizes that his rage is legitimate. Thus, she must wrestle with her sympathy for him, her sympathy for his
cause, and her lingering societal conscience. Has England become so evil that V’s terrorism is actually a justified response?

I would have preferred a little more ambiguity in the characterizations of oppressed and oppressor. Because director James McTeigue portrays
the British government as so inhuman and Evey and V’s relationship as so passionately righteous, we are left with little
doubt as to how we should answer the script’s central question. A more disturbing film would have endowed Sutler’s society
with shreds of optimism; then, we would ask how one could defend terrorism if the society it attacked actually performed
some good.

Nonetheless, “Vendetta” poses an incendiary question, and it looks good doing it. The film’s visual style perfectly balances a realistic
forecast of 2020 with token comic-book coolness. Pub drunkards still gulp Guinness, news anchors still obsess about their on-screen appearances,
and detectives still read e-mail on their Dell desktops, but none of this stops V from knifing down 10 armed
officers in ten slow-motion seconds.

Portman, an adorable actress who has never rung true as a badass, finally finds a niche in the action-adventure world.
With her shaved head and inconsistent but hard-fought English accent, she creates the kind of super-female icon that she failed
to live up to as Padme in the recent “Star Wars” trilogy. Although we never see Weaving’s face, his vivacious
V matches Evey’s charisma step-for-step, and the two form a slightly creepy but oddly likable couple.

Like many pulp entertainments, the film draws from countless other sources. Part “1984,” part “Phantom of the Opera,” and with
the slightest dash of “Fight Club,” “V for Vendetta” does not earn points for subtlety or for utter originality; rather,
it triumphs in its ballsy, visually seductive dedication to its own anger.
