courtesy photo

Student workers at the Outpost joke behind the counter.

Outpost, from page 1

"It was all over, since we were the last class that was there for the Outpost,” Emily Byrne '04 said.

The Outpost served a variety of food, including quesadillas, pizza, chicken-caesar bagels, burgers, hash browns, grilled cheese, candy, and soda.

It was open from 11 p.m. to 3 a.m. on Wednesday and Thursday and 10 p.m. to 3 a.m. Friday
and Saturday. In addition to serving food, the Outpost also delivered to dorm rooms and other locations on campus.

“There was so much character in that building - all the walls told stories of the classes before you. When
the Outpost closed, Davidson lost a little bit of its small community character.”
--Katrina Papadopoulos ‘04

“I think our delivery service was a huge benefit to the student body, one that is no longer being provided,”
said former Outpost employee Julie Perry ’04. “I think it definitely increased our business, and as a worker, I must
admit it was pretty fun to zip around in the golf cart and be raucously greeted at every door I
knocked on."

Alumni praised the way the Outpost brought diverse student groups together.

“People from all sorts of different social circles and backgrounds, who had all sorts of different interests, would wind up
sitting together at the Outpost, laughing and sharing stories and eating those fabulous quesadillas that never quite tasted as good
at the new Union,” Byrne said.

The convenient location of the Outpost was one of the strengths alumni highlighted.

“You never had to worry about meeting up with your friends when you were out because they’d all end up
at the Outpost. The Outpost filled that niche for those nights when you wanted to go out, but things weren’t
too crazy,” Katrina Papadopoulos '04 said.

Perry also said the Outpost’s convenient location drew together different students and created a social option for non-court-affiliated members.

“The great thing about the Outpost was that it wasn’t just a Court phenomenon. Anyone could come down and feel
comfortable in the Outpost’s eclectic atmosphere,” Perry said. “The big screen TV always had something interesting on, the walls painted
by students had their own personality, as workers we got to choose the music and no one had to prove
anything just to hang out there. Its location was definitely convenient being down the hill where most of the action
was, but that didn’t exclude the non-court-affiliated members of campus,” Perry said.

Alumni cited the unique nature of the Outpost as something they missed in the Union.

“There was so much character in that building - all the walls told stories of the classes before you. When
the Outpost closed, Davidson lost a little bit of its small community character,” Papadopoulos said.

The Outpost was also something that set Davidson apart from other colleges.

“The Outpost was one of those little idiosyncrasies that made Davidson Davidson. Just like First Night Down, laundry numbers, and
Santa repelling down Chambers, it was one of those seemingly small things that played a big part in making my
Davidson experience so unique and cherished. It was fundamental in creating a sense of tight-knit campus community for me.”
--Emily Byrne ‘04

“I remember having friends come visit from other schools, and inevitably they would comment on how great the Outpost was,
and how it was so different from anything they had at their own colleges,” Byrne said. “I think a little
bit of the Davidson community spirit was chipped away when we lost the Outpost."

Recently, there has been tension between students and employees at the Café, especially at night.

According to Perry, however, working at the Outpost was enjoyable.

“I never felt like I missed out on the Court’s social happenings by working on a Friday or Saturday because
everyone would always stop by at some point during the night,” Perry said.

“From the perspective of a worker, I loved it because it was a well-paying job ($10/hour plus free food and
plus tips if you were the delivery person for the night) with flexibility, the fun of working with fellow students
(who became good friends) and the awesome management combination of Papa-D and Dixie. They ran it like a well-oiled machine
and expected responsibility out of all of us workers, but they felt more like friends than bosses and I can’t
ever remember being stressed-out there,” Perry said.

Perry acknowledged that the new Union is a vast improvement over the old Union.

On the other hand, she said the Outpost was more conducive to casual student gatherings.

“The Union is great for daytime happenings and even some of the later-night sponsored events are fun, but it’s just
too sterile in comparison to the Outpost and it’s not nearly as comfortable a hangout for those late-night quesadilla cravings,”
Perry said.

Byrne realizes, however, that current students cannot miss what they have never experienced.

“The Outpost was one of those little idiosyncrasies that made Davidson Davidson,” Byrne said. “Just like First Night Down, laundry
numbers and Santa repelling down Chambers, it was one of those seemingly small things that played a big part in
making my Davidson experience so unique and cherished. It was fundamental in creating a sense of a tight-knit campus community
for me.”

Workers prepare to ring up student purchases.
