THE DAVIDSONIAN

Second Annual Davidsonian SGA Election Forum

All candidates for SGA President will participate in a forum moderated by the editorial board of The Davidsonian on January
31 at 8:30 PM in the Union Atrium. After the forum, the editorial board will review the remarks of the
candidates and choose to endorse one for SGA presidency. This endorsement will appear in the February 1 issue of The
Davidsonian.

PCC should have bigger evils to fry

By CARA CHRISTIAN
Staff Columnist

Once upon a time (and I will not say when), the sleek, polished freshmen of an (anonymous) highly selective independent
liberal arts college for 1,700 students were “selected” by a “court” to become members of social organizations. And on this
magical (and somewhat blurry) night, the girls of Urner-tay, Arner-way, Usk-ray, and Onnor-cay gather in front of their castles to
shower the new princesses with their love, affection... and sundae condiments. They slip-slide their way up the stairs and dance
the night away, awaiting their charming young princes (sporting this season's Mary Kate and Ashley panties) to break the spell
and kill their buzz at the stroke of midnight... Nostalgic sigh.

As a junior, I've been through this process enough times to develop a “not in my hair!” ketchup strategy, and
the very worst of the permanent damage it's caused me in my Patterson Court career is a quarter-sized stain on
my terry-cloth shorts. With a little fabric softener and the right attitude, this night can be fun AND friendly from
both sides of the whipped-cream canister.

I realize you've been sweating over problem-sets, saving Lake Norman's vegan squirrel population AND translating sacred pig-latin texts for next
month's anthropology conference. I think we might be working a little too hard to cut the “college” out of Davidson
College. But my dear sweet smarties of Davidson College, let’s not take it out on Patterson Court! In a world
of misplaced black North Faces, empty Purell dispensers and hogged community bikes, there are bigger fish to fry! Sejohnson placed
an ad in the Crier weeks ago and STILL hasn't found someone to claim the $5 bill he found outside
Baker. Folks, where (oh where?!) are our priorities? What will we tell the future Wildcats?

Joy Hamm, I know you're doing your job (and by god, woman, doing it well!), but I’m not entirely convinced
that spilled beer and chocolate syrup wreak social havoc on our fragile future-CEO beings. The half-hour mandatory hazing meetings make
some solidly good points. For instance, now I know it's NOT okay to send the newbies on treasure hunts. But
I think we might be working a little too hard to cut the “college” out of Davidson College.

I don't mean to say hazing isn't a problem; my little brother's USC pledging stories have taught me better. I
DO, however, think we're taking a distinctly Davidson approach to combating the few traces of hazing we're rumored to host
on campus. Let's be honest here. This is college. There WILL be underage drinking. There WILL be social class-strata. Occasionally,
as an inherent part of an evolutionary herd-mentality, there WILL be peer pressure. Let's not pull a Davidson here and
overreact. I realize we've recently tackled our foe "grade inflation," and we're plumb out of evils to defeat... but c'mon.
We're kids (smart, overly-ambitious ones, mind you) but we're still kids. And I say this with pride. Treasure hunts or
no treasure hunts, let's occasionally act like it while we still can.

Cara Christian is a junior Spanish and English double major from Scottsdale, Az. Contact her at cachristian@davidson.edu.

PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2006 11

Bush disregards civil liberties again

By ASHISH GEORGE
Staff Columnist

Wars have more than a correlative relationship with government power because they facilitate the emphasis on threats, real and imagined,
that cloak what would be our leaders’ otherwise naked power grabs. To wit, here is President Bush’s paper-thin explanation of
the need for his controversial clandestine domestic spying program: “People are changing phone numbers and phone calls, and they're moving
quick. And we've got to be able to detect and prevent. I keep saying that, but this...requires quick action."

But as The American Prospect’s Matthew Yglesias points out, “If you make your hypothetical omelet tasty enough (democracy everywhere! freedom
and equality for all!) or the dangers of failure sufficiently grave (terrorists blowing up cities!), then you wind up eliminating
all constraints on the quantity of eggs you're willing to break.”

And so we come to the central question of the “War on Terror”: at what price are we willing to
fight for this omelet whose taste, thanks to this administration’s mercurial rhetoric, we do not know?

As bumper stickers affirming our pride to be American became ubiquitous after the September 11 attacks, President Bush decided the
best way to express that pride was to make it that much stronger in contrast with any justification we could
ever have to be proud of our government by sanctioning the interception of telephone and Internet conversations of Americans without
court approval. Kate Martin, director of the Center for National Security Studies, told The New York Times that President Bush’s
actions might have been tantamount to criminal activity. This sentiment lurked even within the N.S.A.; some officials had no desire
to be associated with the program, and others feared investigation under a Kerry administration.

The Justice Department has claimed that the president’s “inherent constitutional authority as Commander in Chief” coupled with the Congressional Authorization
of Military Force (AUMF) after 9/11, conferred all the necessary authority to conduct warrantless eavesdropping. But the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Act (FISA) legislation proscribes domestic surveillance without a warrant from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court after the first 15 days
of an emergency. The Justice Department has tried to circumvent this inconvenience by saying the FISA permits surveillance independently.of the
established procedures if “a subsequent statute authorizes such surveillance.” The Justice Department points to the AUMF as the key statute,
but the AUMF says nothing about caveats to the FISA. President Bush, in fact, tried to get authorization for his
warrantless eavesdropping inserted into the AUMF, but the Senate was uncooperative. So the administration tried to coax the Senate into
expanding its prerogative to monitor U.S. citizens, failed, and then proceeded to act as if it had such a prerogative
anyway. The surveillance has not been terribly productive, and F.B.I. officials told the N.S.A. that the unfiltered information they were
being given was too much for investigators. N.S.A. leads acquired such a poor track record that F.B.I. agents joked that
more information meant more “calls to Pizza Hut.” As those who still believe in the infallibility of the trust-me president
try to decoct a rationale for such absurdity, 52 percent of Americans responded in the affirmative to the question “If
President Bush wiretapped American citizens without the approval of a judge, do you agree or disagree that Congress should consider
holding him accountable through impeachment?” Although Congress has an unhealthy give-the-people-what-they-want streak, I am not expecting it to emerge here.

Ashish George is a junior philosophy major from Greensboro, N.C. Contact him at asgeorge@davidson.edu.

RLO: firm standards or inflexibility?

Ah, Christmas. Christmas is a time for family, a time for giving, and a time for closing the door to
those in need. At least, it is if you are the Residence Life Office (RLO). I invite you to remember
that RLO is, according to the latest Davidson poll, the most disliked organization on campus. And there’s a damn good
reason. RLO is a bureaucracy, plain and simple. The organization shows a frightening tendency to be dogmatic and unreasonable; its
attitude about work requests is condescending, as if providing the residential resources we have paid for is a favor. But
hey, I certainly consider it a favor to get my five degrees of climate control in a dormitory so ill-maintained
that RLO pays residents $100 to live there. Granted, Irwin is better than many dorms across the country, better than
many real-world living conditions. But at this institution, where we hold a higher academic and moral standard, should we not
hold RLO to some standard? Akers residents pay the same for room and board as the people who kick back
in the relative comfort (not to mention convenient locations) of Tomlinson and Duke. The rules, however, say that all students
pay the same for all rooms, even the ones that are clearly not the same. And we all know that
worshipping the rules is what one does with a liberal arts education.

I invite you to consider a pair of stories, both from the Ghost of Davidson Christmas. Two friends and I
coach YMCA basketball teams for the Davidson-Cornelius league; our teams had a practice and a game both before the dorms
opened to students for the second semester. We requested permission from RLO to return two days early and have access
to our dorms, as varsity athletes, DO trainees, and Lilly Program participants do. However, we, as community servers, were not
given permission on the grounds that we were not a "college-sponsored program." With Davidson’s emphasis upon community service, I find
it surprising at best and hypocritical at worst that RLO is so inflexible about rules when presented with the opportunity
to aid students’ efforts at service. Why does wilderness leadership deserve an exception to the rule and community service not?
The effective statement RLO made, on behalf of the college, is that Davidson does not sponsor service. Talk about an
admissions slogan.

But, in case you think I am little more than an angered individual abusing power (oh, what irony) to complain,
consider another Christmas story. This December, the most destructive ice storm in Carolina history hit hundreds of thousands of families
in the area. It happened to fall upon Thursday, December 15, the day before dorms were scheduled to close. Some
Davidson students, concerned about their parents making it to the college to pick them up, inquired about whether RLO would
be flexible in the event that road travel were unsafe come Friday morning. Rules exist for a reason; the question
is whether they are to be guidelines or to be religious doctrine. I quote the dogmatic answer given: "Residents that
are still inside the residence halls at 12:00 on Friday, December 16th will be fined $250.00." In short, Merry Christmas,
why should we care, get out. I’ve got the holly jollies shivering up and down my spine just thinking about
it.

To review, here is a list of statements RLO’s actions or words have affirmed: mold is not hazardous to one’s
health, Knox is the same as Belk, we support athletics but not service, and we would rather make $250 than
let you have a safe place to stay in case the roads are unsafe. Rules exist for a reason; the
question is whether they are to be guidelines or to be religious doctrine.

Now, if there are two things I love about Davidson College, they are the sense of the community as a
family and the commitment to help others. Fundraisers for disaster relief this fall were truly inspiring; Christmas carols with cookies
and cocoa in the Union is one of my favorite events of the year; my confidence in Davidson’s ability to
show compassion for its students and support for their efforts in service is boundless. I also believe wholeheartedly in the
spirit of Christmas. Which is why I have full faith that RLO’s small heart will grow three sizes. Someday.

Nathan Bradshaw is a sophomore English major from Swannanoa, N.C., and co-editor of the Perspectives section. Contact him at nabradshaw@davidson.edu.
