4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Trustees grant tenure to 10 faculty members

By Liz BARRY
Editor-in-Chief

Ten faculty members were granted tenure and promoted to Associate Professor by the Board of Trustees earlier this month.

Three of the tenured professors, Karen Hales, Barbara Lom, and Christopher Paradise, are from the Biology department.

The department will also receive a new faculty member next year, Assistant Professor Sophia Sarafova.

Other tenured faculty members include Laurie Heyer and Michael Mossinghoff from the Mathematics Department, Mark Foley and Fred Smith from the Economics Department, Political Science Professor Russell Crandall, Theater Professor Sharon Green, and Anthropology Professor Fuji Lozada.

During their sixth year of full-time teaching, faculty members are automatically considered for tenure.

Tenure candidates are assessed in three categories: teaching, professional activity, and service to the department, college, and community.

Faculty members are assessed in all three categories by their academic department, the Elected Faculty Tenure Committee, and Dean of Faculty Clark Ross.

The Board of Trustees, based on these assessments, then decides on the granting of tenure.

According to Ross, teaching is the “absolutely vital first part” of the package.

Classroom visits by faculty members and student evaluations weigh heavily into the review process.

Ross said that the careful examination of student evaluations from a span of several years reveals a lot about the strengths and weaknesses of a professor’s teaching abilities.

Review of course syllabi and letters from former students are also considered.

Professional activity includes research, publication, participation in academic conferences and other projects, and is evaluated both by Davidson colleagues and by outside experts. “We get letters from outside experts who speak to the quality of their work,” Ross said.

The evaluation of service to the department and larger campus community consists of a straightforward assessment that the faculty member has made contributions to various facets of campus life.

What are you doing this summer?

Colorado College Summer Session offers:
* Over 60 courses in over 30 departments
* Experiential learning throughout the American Southwest and across the globe including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Ecuador, England, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mongolia, Peru, and Spain
* Dance, music, voice, drama, and film intensives taught by nationally and internationally known professionals

Kelley, from page 3

waves through religious communities of all denominations and “caused scholars to weigh in quickly,” Gordon said.

After witnessing the powerful influence of the courts in matters of church and state, religion took on a political dimension.

Groups such as the Protestants and other Americans United for Separation of Church and State [POAU] formed in order to ensure the provisions of the establishment clause, but also in order to draw attention to important issues of religion in the United States.

Leaders of religious groups with a political orientation often “didn’t care about their legal craft” as much as they “just wanted attention.”

Gordon contrasted such organizations with modern ones such as the ACLU which “focus more on crafting constitutional doctrines.”

Since the Supreme Court mechanism that worked in favor of religious institutions in one case “would work against them” in the next, groups like the POAU experienced radical shifts in the make-up of their members as time passed.

In 1972, the POAU “sought to shed its Protestant past” and omitted “Protestants and Others” in its organization title.

The group then divided between the progressive liberals who sought a firm divide between church and state, and the more conservative Christians who felt that total separation of church and state threatened their culture.

Gordon indicated that such dramatic changes in groups such as the former POAU only magnify the Supreme Court’s ability to impact history and the nature of religion in America.

Dr. Gordon concluded her lecture by saying that she felt lucky to live in and study an era in which religion “has experienced a dazzling revival.”

Her investigation into the history of law and religion establishes a foundation for understanding the political dynamics of current issues where church and state meet.

The lecture provided history majors as well as non-majors with an opportunity to gain a greater familiarity with the religious issues that America has faced in the past.

“I think that the lectures delivered in this series were both exciting. They were fun because they contributed to the ongoing scholarly conversations, but also because they were entertaining and engaging for those who are not experts,” Kelley Scholar Matt Hall ’06, who introduced Dr. Gordon, said.

Gordon completed her undergraduate work at Vassar and holds an M.A. in Religion and a J.D. from Yale.

She obtained her Ph.D. in History from Princeton, and has published numerous works on the role of religion in America and the separation of church and state.

Dr. Gordon’s lecture concluded the 2005-2006 Kelley lecture theme “law and religion in comparative historical perspective,” inaugurated in Fall 2005 by M.C. Mirow of Florida International University Law School’s address on religion and the law in Latin American history.

The lectures are designed to complement the studies of students in the Kendrick K. Kelley honors program.

The Kelley program honors the memory of a Davidson alumnus who died while serving in Vietnam.

Interested history majors may apply to the department for admission into the program during their junior year.

Accepted applicants pursue a historically significant topic of interest by completing a year-long research and writing seminar during their senior year.

The 2005-2006 Kelley program is directed by history professor Dr. John Wertheimer.

Patterson Court Forum - Tonight

What are the possible uses of the Patterson Court house whose occupancy by CoHo will end this year?

Hear what the SGA and the Patterson Court Council think. Come with your own ideas and questions.

Thursday, April 27
9:45 p.m. Hance Auditorium
Sponsored by the President's Office.