THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 2006 13

Davidson basketball more than just March

By WILSON McCrory
Sports Editor Emeritus

I loved every minute of the 2004-05 Davidson basketball season, right up until the last few seconds against UNC-Greensboro in
the SoCon semifinals last March. From Matty’s game-winning heroics from long range to Jason’s buzzer-beating SportsCenter floater against Charleston to
the nail-biter against Duke in the Charlotte Coliseum, almost every game provided great basketball and ultimately a Davidson victory. But
as the final seconds of the heartbreaking loss in Chattanooga ticked away, all the great moments from the undefeated year
were superseded by the disappointment and even anger I felt toward the sad truth that Davidson would not be wearing
Cinderella’s slipper that year. Instead of being remembered as one of the most successful teams in school history, I was
convinced that the season was defined by what could have been.

I entered the 2005-06 season with a renewed sense of excitement about Davidson basketball, but only in the sense that
it provided the opportunity to avenge the ghosts of Chattanooga and send the seniors out with their first-ever NCAA tournament
berth. That anticipation quickly gave way to frustration, however, as an early-season swoon punctuated by losses to UNC, Syracuse, and
even Illinois-Chicago doomed any thoughts of an at-large NCAA bid and cemented the reality that Davidson would again have to
string together three wins in March no matter how well it played the rest of the year. As a result,
I just couldn’t get excited about an endless stream of SoCon games when the only thing Davidson needed from the
conference slate was a first-round bye in the season-ending tournament; I went to most home games and stayed for about
half, never ventured to an opponent’s court, and didn’t even think about turning on the radio to see how Davidson
was doing when I couldn’t make it in person.

Davidson, however, should not define itself by March in the same way that the elite of college basketball does. No
SoCon team has ever qualified for an at-large berth, and just as the 16-0 Wildcats demonstrated a year ago, even
one of the greatest teams in school history isn’t guaranteed a Dance card. The season was merely an extended tune-up
for March, and I was willing to wait for the real games to start. When the Wildcats finally put it
together in Charleston and then gave Ohio State a run for its money in the tournament, though, I didn’t feel
the sense of contentment that I had expected after waiting three years to see Davidson get to that point. Sure,
it was a fun ride to see Davidson on a national stage for the first time since I’ve been a
student, but as the season came to its inevitable end, I realized that for me it’d hardly even begun.

For programs like Duke, Carolina, and Kentucky that consider March Madness a formality and are routinely gunning for National Championships,
I do believe the unfortunate reality that March is the only real legacy those teams can leave. For them, 20-win
seasons and conference championships are assumed, and the regular season is merely a prologue. Davidson, however, should not define itself
by March in the same way that the elite of college basketball does. No SoCon team has ever qualified for
an at-large berth, and just as the 16-0 Wildcats demonstrated a year ago, even one of the greatest teams in
school history isn’t guaranteed a Dance card.

In the three seasons between NCAA tournament appearances, Davidson was 47-31, dominated the SoCon with a 28-10 mark, and claimed
three regular season conference titles. Each year ended with its share of disappointment, but to disregard the successes because of
one loss in March takes away from the joy of being both a player and fan. A season is about
all of the small stories, good and bad, that go together to create an entire body of work. This year
was about a great start with wins over St. Joe’s, UMass, and Missouri and then a frustratingly inconsistent conference run
in which Davidson could beat a team by 20 one week and lose by 10 to the same group a
month later. As good as Davidsonwas at Belk Arena, winning all but one, the 'Cats were miserable away from campus.
It was about Jason Richards, Boris and Thomas developing into the reliable depth the Wildcats needed, Ian’s emergence as an
All-Conference force inside and Jason Morton practically carrying the offense on his back over the final few weeks of the
regular season. It was also about returning to the real tournament for the first time in four years, and it
was certainly punctuated by taking Ohio State to the brink of first-round elimination, but those stories are merely part of
what defines yet another successful season for the Wildcats. To look at it any other way means you’d miss a
lot of great basketball between November and February. I know I did. Forget your bracket.

By WILL BRYAN
Senior Staff Writer

For the average sports fan and cultural observer, there is nothing more important and exciting this time of year than
March Madness. In a three-week marathon that seems to trump all yearly sports events, the NCAA tournament captures the hearts
and minds of all Americans, sports fan or no. Cultural cues tell us that this is the time for miraculous
victories, heart-breaking losses and the spirit of competition. Nothing captures our imagination more than the small school that knocks off
the big dog. However, the last decade has thrown this tournament a kink that has become ‘root for the underdog’
College?” I asked. “Do you really like them or the ACC?” “Of course not,” answered one student. “But I have
them in my Final Four and Pacific should stop being so uppity.” This was a pretty pretentious claim coming from
someone who would certainly be pulling for the underdog the next day against Ohio State.

The truth remains that brackets distort our appreciation of the game. Normally, we enjoy closely matched contests between two teams
we don’t care about and we must always follow the American Creed: pull for the underdog. This sentiment is preached
to us from every great sports movie and cultural code. We want to chant Rudy when he finally makes a
play for Notre Dame. We feel shivers when watching Gene Hackman’s group of ragtag players win the Indiana state championship.
Our culture is all about the underdog and for good reason: America is a land of favorites amongst the world
of underdogs. We have to remind ourselves how important it is to succeed when the odds are set against you.

In light of this, brackets are in no way about the underdog. They don’t support the emotional attachment felt to
a team of overachievers. In fact, I would bet that many people felt a conflict of interest last Friday, as
they had Davidson losing to Ohio State in their bracket. In the end, brackets are all about the self in
a way that sports fandom is not. Sports fandom is about cheering for others and learning the humility of being
a supporter instead of the supported. When we make everything we do into how we can win, we lose that
humility. We lose the ability to cheer for others and believe in the underdog. With two more victories, George Mason
could become the first mid-major team to make the Final Four since 1979. So let’s all tear up our brackets
and root for the underdog. It’s our civic duty.
