THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2006 7

The art of throwing a Super Bowl party

By MIKE WELLMAN & KATIE HUNTER
Arts & Living Editors

Football fans and avid commercial watchers, prepare to rejoice, for Super Bowl Sunday is almost here. Whether you are a die-hard Steelers supporter, a Seahawks fan, or just want to see the Rolling Stones at halftime, a good Super Bowl Party allows all to set aside their differences and enjoy the last football game until September.

Davidson students have plenty of options for game day. Many fraternities plan to show the game and provide snacks and beverages for members. Students also have the option of watching the big game on the big screen in the Union. Aside from the thrill of watching the game, students have their own preferences as to what makes for a spectacular Super Bowl Sunday.

“I'd need food, lots of people, a big TV and a Steelers victory,” Rob Heppenstall ’08 said. Seahawks fan Colin Smith ’07 agreed with this, adding “the best kind of Super Bowl party is one where you have fans from both sides. That way it kind of promotes an equal atmosphere.”

As any Davidson student knows, no event attracts a crowd without promises of food. A successful Super Bowl Party must have the basics, including the common crowd pleaser of chips and dip. For those looking to spice up their Super Bowl fiestas a bit more, there are many options. A few suggestions are the classic snack mix, seven-layer dip, and chocolatey football bites. All are easy but elegant possibilities that can be prepared without access to a full kitchen. These recipes and others are available from chiff.com.

While the food might be enough to keep fans occupied, it never hurts to have a few Super Bowl party games prepared. For example, during halftime, partygoers might have the option of playing football charades. The person who is “it” acts out a word associated with football, such as cheerleader or touchdown. Another option for those looking to take an outdoor break is a football throwing contest, with the guest who can throw the football the furthest being awarded a prize. To keep the more rowdy fans in check, it might also help to assign a “party referee” at the beginning of the game. This person can throw a penalty flag for offenses like a “party foul,” such as when another guest commits the ultimate horror of the “double dip.” These suggestions and others are available from WCPO.com.

For those looking to go the extra mile, some football decorations to dress up the dorm might make for a nice touch. Posters, pennants, or signs featuring the opposing teams are some simple suggestions. Creative party hosts might also opt to display their party fare in unusual ways, such as serving up chips and dip in a sombrero. Looking for an easy and inventive way to keep beverages cold and cut costs? Purchase some plastic bins or buckets from a local dollar store, draw the team logo on them with a marker, and fill with ice and drinks.

So, keep in mind that food, friends, and fun truly make the game day great, no matter which team emerges victorious.

Grammys fast approaching

By REID WILDMAN
Senior Staff Writer

Music lovers everywhere are counting down until Feb. 8, when CBS will air the 48th annual Grammy Awards show. Numerous musical superstars will be performing at the event, including Bruce Springsteen and Coldplay. One of the nominees in the Best New Artist category, Sugarland, will also be performing. Mariah Carey will also sing alongside Hezekiah Walker and the Love Fellowship Choir, which are nominated for Best Gospel Performance and Best Gospel Choir or Chorus album. There will also be a tribute to the funk group Sly and the Family Stone, along with contributions from Maroon 5, Will.I.Am from the Black Eyed Peas, John Legend, Aerosmith’s Joe Perry and Steven Tyler, Joss Stone, Devin Lima, and Robert Randolph.these performances, I’m a little upset that I wasn’t asked to come demonstrate my stylish “My Humps” dance moves. I guess there’s always next year. Some of the awards presenters have already been announced, including Big and Rich, Tom Hanks, and Terrence Howard. Awards will be presented to nominees in a wide range of categories, including each major musical genre and more technical arenas such as “production” and “package” categories. John Legend shares the lead for most Grammy nominations with two others. The full list of nominees is available on the official Grammy award website. This year’s nominees for the “Record of the Year” category include Mariah Carey’s “We Belong Together,” Gorillaz’s “Feel Good Inc,” Green Day’s “Boulevard of Broken Dreams,” Gwen Stefani’s “Hollaback Girl,” and Kanye West’s “Gold Digger.” Nominees for Best New Artist this year include Ciara, Fall Out Boy, Keane, John Legend, and Sugarland. In the Best Female Pop Vocal Performance category, nominations include Mariah Carey for “It’s Like That,” Kelly Clarkson for her new hit “Since U Been Gone,” Sheryl Crow with “Good is Good,” Bonnie Raitt and “I Will Not Be Broken,” and Gwen Stefani for “Hollaback Girl.” Is it just me, or does anyone else find the “U” in “Since U Been Gone” intensely irritating? I mean, to spell it the right way, you only need two more letters. To be politically correct, I guess I should include the nominees for Best Male Pop Vocal Performance. This year, we have Jack Johnson for “Sitting, Waiting, Wishing,” Paul McCartney for “Fine Line,” Seal with “Walk on By,” Rob Thomas for “Lonely No More,” and Stevie Wonder with “From the Bottom of My Heart.” There are many other categories and nominees at the official Grammy website. Make sure to tune in on February 8 at 8 p.m. for the broadcast.

courtesy photo

Chips and dip are vital to any party

Super Bowl Recipes

Classic Snack Mix
Serves 14

Ingredients:
3 cups assorted dried fruit
2 cups toasted almonds
3 cups assorted salted nuts
2 cups Rice Chex
1 cup Melba toast (break in half)
2 cups Cheez-Its
1 cup pretzel twists

Directions:
Mix all the ingredients in a large bowl. Store in a tightly covered container to ensure freshness.

Seven-Layer Dip
Serves 10

Ingredients:
1 3/4 cups refried beans
1 1/4 ounces taco seasoning mix
1 cup sour cream
1 cup refrigerated guacamole
1 cup 4-cheese Mexican blend
1 cup thick & chunky salsa
1/2 cup diced green chiles
1/3 cup sliced green onions
Tortilla chips

Directions:
Combine beans and seasoning mix in a small bowl. Spread bean mixture in an 8x8 baking dish. Top with sour cream, guacamole, cheese, salsa, chiles, and green onions. Serve with chips.

Chocolatey Football Bites
Serves 18

Ingredients:
4 cups Cocoa Pebbles cereal
6 squares semi-sweet baking chocolate
1/2 cup light corn syrup
1 tablespoon butter or margarine
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
White decorating gel

Directions:
Place the cereal in a large bowl. Microwave chocolate, corn syrup, and butter in a large microwavable bowl on high for 2 1/2 minutes. Stir in vanilla. Pour chocolate mixture over cereal; mix well. Shape into 3-inch long football shapes, using slightly moistened hands. Place on waxed paper; cool completely. Use decorating gel to add lacings to the footballs.