12 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2006

The Week Ahead

For you SOOrUS falls...

TRUMBO’S PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat Game of the Week | Women’s Tennis vs. Furman Friday, 2 p.m.

Recognizing academic achievement in athletics

In high school, most of us Davidson students played a sport. Maybe we didn’t play all so well, or maybe
better than average, but whether or not we enjoyed it, we were going for that ultimate goal of being “well-rounded”
in order to be accepted into an institution of higher learning over other candidates. Don’t lie: If that wasn’t your
primary motivation, it at least factored into your decision to play four years of field hockey or soccer or whatever.
There’s not a lot you can do that looks better than a perfect GPA and a truckload of extracurriculars.

Participating in every single event or association we could, we plumped up our college applications and landed here, in the
great town of Davidson. It wouldn’t be hard to roam the halls of Chambers or scan the tables at Commons
and find a former tri-sport athlete, a high school basketball captain, someone voted Most Valuable Player his or her senior
year. They’re everywhere. Now, though, they don’t play anymore because prior to coming to college, they realized that the increased
academic workload, added to an increased social life, left little room for anything but stress and maybe Young Democrats. They’re
right, too. From what I’ve seen, juggling all of that responsibility can get very hectic.

Yet the uniqueness of our college rests in the fact that one-fourth of our students are not mere students, but
student-athletes. They’ve chosen that long, difficult road. In season, they play their games as Wildcat representatives; out of season, they
practice hard so they can do it all over again the next year. But school year-round, they have the same
course load as you and I.

Recently, the Southern Conference announced that Davidson can claim 12 members of five different winter sports on the Winter Academic
All-Conference Selection list. To be eligible, students must have at least a 3.2 GPA and must have competed in at
least one-half of their teams’ competitions. The three schools in the SoCon to place the highest number of athletes were
Appalachian State with 16, UNC-Greensboro with 13, and Western Carolina with 13 as well.

The sport which collected the greatest amount of its players as selections was indoor track, and it was no different
here at Davidson. There were five students on the men’s team and two on the women’s team to obtain the
honors: Jonathan Baker ’06, Sam Morris ’08, Joe Taylor ’06, Austin Mercadante ’06, William Scheffers ’06, Jessica Chasen ’07, and
Colleen McKown ’08. Men’s basketball boasted Eric Blancett ’06 and Chris Clunie ’06, the latter of whom received a Watson
Fellowship this March. In wrestling, Patrick Coman ’06 and Travis Hunter were named as recipients of the accolade. Tia Washington
’07, guard on the women’s basketball team and recent selection to the NCCSIA All-State Team, rounds out the dozen Davidson
athletes to achieve the distinction.

In early March, the NCAA also came forward to recognize 38 SoCon teams in all areas of competition who have
demonstrated exceptional academic accomplishment. The top 10 percent in each Division I sport were chosen; Davidson led all of the
SoCon schools with 14 teams honored. The grades were based on the APR score, an acronym standing for the Academic
Progress Rate. Our Wildcats are tied for ninth in the nation, falling behind such schools as Yale, Brown, Princeton, Dartmouth,
Harvard, and William and Mary. We’re tied with Boston College, Penn, and Notre Dame, among others. Not too shabby, ’Cats.

Notwithstanding records, or toughness of schedules, or athletic achievements in individual games or entire seasons, these students have done what
many were afraid to do—they’ve committed themselves to a sport, something that will not get them, in most cases, into
the NBA, the MLB, or the Pro Golf Circuit. It takes a great deal of dedication to play a sport
here. It is, after all, the second smallest Division I school, just behind Rice University in Houston. These student-athletes are
not taking on a greater workload necessarily to pad resumes; they are doing it for reasons you may guess easily,
or not at all. That, like all other motivators, is an individual thing. It seems to me, however, that striving
for the highest quality in all aspects of their lives is common to all.

The Mission Statement of the school, found on the college website, states that “Davidson students aspire to excellence in athletics,
as in academics.” And they do. I congratulate every student-athlete who has been recognized for their academic achievements. As their
friends and classmates, we should make it our mission to support them at every opportunity.

Using the phrase “my team” with care

By ALEX ARINSMIER Guest Columnist

I know this has happened to other people. You and a group of buddies are sitting around the dinner table
talking sports. Your good friend, while wearing a New York Yankees hat, talks about his love for the San Francisco
49ers. The only problem is that he’s from Connecticut. Is it just me, or is something terribly wrong with that?In
this day of global marketing, it’s easy to purchase the merchandise of any sports team in the country and get
the satellite package coverage to watch any televised game. Hats and jerseys line the walls in every mall, and online
sites allow for purchases of specific team gear to customers anywhere in the world. So people from Arkansas can watch
Dodger games, and residents of North Dakota can watch the Patriots play while wearing Tom Brady jerseys. I don’t have
a problem with people watching more and more sports. Sitting back with a cold brew and enjoying a ballgame is
one of the rights and privileges of every American. I fully support and encourage such action. My problem comes when
certain people pick and choose their teams on the basis of uniform color, winning percentage, and big-name players. This is
the problem with sports fans today and the relationships between the clubs themselves and those individuals who proudly call them
“my team.”

Whatever happened to actually living in the city where the team is located? As crazy as it might seem, most
fans actually enjoy going to the games to see them live and in person. I don’t know how one can
call himself a fan who has not even attended a game in the ballpark of his team. A fan who
watches the game in his back-massaging leather chair while drinking a glass of wine is not the same fan who
sits atop the Green Monster in Boston, touches the ivy in Wrigley Field, or watches the Tall Stacks explode after
a home run in Cincinnati. As John Kruk famously said on Baseball Tonight, “Drink a beer. Eat a hot dog.”
That’s what real fans do.

Supposed New York Yankee fans are the biggest fan-posers of them all. I totally respect those Yankee fans that live
in the Bronx and have a legitimate claim. I also respect the Yankee marketing team, which has taken the Yankee
winning image and sold it across the country. I just don’t have respect for the guy from Michigan who wears
that same Yankee hat. Does he have the same claim to the Yankees as the woman with season tickets living
in the Bronx? The answer is obviously no. In the world of fans, not all are created equal. The woman
in the Bronx can proudly yell that the Yankees are her team. The man from Michigan can root for the
Yankees, but never, ever, under any circumstances should utter the phrase “the Yankees are my team.” Because it’s simply not
true. If he was such a true Yankee fan, he would move to New York so he could go to
the ballpark every day. You cannot honestly state that a fan who lives in the city of a team is
equal to a fan who does not.

Now, I love the South. I was born and raised in the North, but I have thoroughly enjoyed my four
years in Dixie. However, there is one major aspect of Southern culture that absolutely drives me insane: the Atlanta Braves.
Every single person living in the Southeast of the United States claims the Braves as “their team.” It’s not that
they’re from Atlanta, or even live in the state of Georgia for that matter, but rather it is the closest
and only professional baseball team in the region. I throw up in my mouth every time I hear someone I
know who is not from Atlanta talk about the Braves. I just can’t comprehend it. Just because the Braves are
the only team in the region does not mean everyone in the South has a claim to the Braves. If
you’re not from Atlanta or Georgia, the following is very simple: you don’t have a team. The truth hurts sometimes.
If cheering on a professional baseball team was that important to you, you would move to Atlanta or any other
city and have a perfectly legitimate claim as a fan. But you didn’t move. And the amazing thing is you
might be six hours away from Atlanta and declare that you have the same passion and love for the Braves
as the fan that lives in Atlanta. Absurd. Watching every game from your couch and visiting the ballpark three times
in your lifetime does not equal the amount of time the fan from Atlanta has given supporting his squad.

It’s a shame that everyone can’t grow up in a city with professional sports teams. Some of us are lucky
enough to have all four major sports at our fingertips, while others of us have the unfortunate fate of no
major sports teams to call our own. While I feel sorry for them, it’s a crime to claim the same
allegiance and support to a particular team without actually living there. When this occurs, the integrity of the sport and
the team are called into question. It’s just not right. It just doesn’t make sense. Please, don’t fall into the
trap of jumping on the team bandwagon or team adoption. Let those of us that actually have tradition and history
be proud of our team and our city. And if you’re going through team-withdrawal depression, don’t worry; we could always
use some more fans. Just be sure to move to the city first.
