Che Da

@ “THE SOUTH'S PREMIER COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

First CLASS
U.S. POSTAGE PAID
Permit #1
Davidson, NC

DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

President Bobby Vagt responded this week to two proposals passed by the Committee on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) last
semester.

Vagt affirmed CCRL’s recommendation to bring a historically black sorority to Davidson and agreed to allow Patterson Court to hold
up to four impromptu parties per week.

In December, CCRL voted to change the alcohol policy so that the Court could hold up to seven impromptus. Vagt
said that his decision to allow four impromptus was not meant to undermine CCRL’s proposal.

“Eating houses never request parties, so we’re only talking about fraternities,” Vagt said. “We'll double the number and then look.”

Davidsonian Exclusive
Vagt approves sorority, increases impromptu limit

Vagt approved the sorority proposal because he believes the sorority is “an important social construct in support of members of
this campus community.”

He said his decision was also influenced by the “virtually unanimous support” from campus organizations, alumni groups, and the Board
of Trustees.

Because historically black sororities are primarily service organizations, Vagt does not believe the decision will set a precedent for future
sorority initiatives.

The process for choosing a sorority will begin immediately and will be led by Patterson Court advisor Joy Hamm.

--By Kate Gillespie
News Editor

Bean Bag Series gets mixed reviews

By Lexi HAMILTON & EMILY KOTA
News Editor & Senior Staff Writer

New members of Patterson Court organizations are concerned about the effectiveness of the Bean Bag Education Series, prompting senior members
of Court organizations to make inquiries into the program’s purpose.

The 2006 Series began with a “1 in 4” rape awareness event for males and “Legally Blonde” for females on
January 24.

Tyler Stone ’09 and Bobby Mohr ’09 felt a bit uncomfortable with the graphic nature of the “1 in 4”
program. Stone, however, recognized the value of the program. “I’m glad it forced me out of my comfort zone,” Stone
said. “Rape is a serious issue, and to fully get the message, you need to be pushed a little. I
respect those guys a lot for their work and their commitment.”

Though not required to do so by his organization, Phi Delta Gamma member Anders Wells ’08 attended the “1 in
4” lecture. Wells believes that “many men are uncertain about the definition of rape.” “This is an important issue for
men and women,” Wells said.

See Bean Bag, page 3

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2006

Royal Treatment

The Royal Shakespeare Company ended the first week of its residency with a focus on performance and analytical approaches to
selected Shakespearean works.

Top left: David McClay ’08, a member of the Shakespeare Practicum class, works with an elementary school student. Bottom left:
a member of the RSC advises the student performers. Bottom right: McClay and Pete Shield ’08 rehearse a scene from
“Henry IV.”

VOLUME 97, NUMBER 13

Admissions releases ED I numbers

By AMELIA RICHMOND
Staff Writer

The Office of Admission and Financial Aid saw a drop in students applying Early Decision, a binding application option that
requires students to attend Davidson if they are accepted.

This year, 357 students applied under Davidson’s Early Decision I and Early Decision II plans compared to last year’s 440.
The number of international applicants is also down.

Of the 250 students who applied by the November 15 Early Decision I deadline, 143 were accepted.

According to President Bobby Vagt, the college is not seeking to admit fewer applicants but rather to recruit students who
are likely to come to Davidson.

“We’re paying more attention to folks who ought to be here instead of the game of accepting fewer students this
year than last,” Vagt said.

This week, the Admissions Office will mail notification letters to students who applied Early Decision II.

One hundred and seven students submitted their applications by January 2 under this College’s final early application option. The deadline
for all regular admission applications also passed on that date.

The number of students accepted from Early Decision II will be available next week.

Senior Associate Dean of Admission and Financial Aid Wookie Payne said the Office of Admission is currently finishing the applications.

“As always, we are shaping a class that we hope provides depth and breadth of interest, experience, ideas, intellect, talent
and passion,” Payne said.

Because the admissions process is not yet complete, the Office Admissions cannot provide a complete list of applicants’ distinguishing qualities.

Vagt said fewer foreign students applied this year because the Admissions Office did not send out representatives on global recruiting
trips.

Regular admission invitations will be sent out by the end of March. Accepted students must decide whether to attend Davidson
by May 1.

The class of 2010 is expected to have between 450 to 460 students, the same number targeted for last year’s
incoming freshman class. The Admissions Office expects to fill the 450 spots by sending out 1,100 invitations.

The Admissions Office will sponsor Decision Davidson, which allows admitted students to visit Davidson before finalizing their college plans, on
April 8.

PAGE 9

profiles critiqued
Facebook.com

see YOWL, PAGE 8

Super Bowl predictions

see SPORTS, PAGE 12
