THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2006 15

Noreen, Martin impress at Duke Invitational

By ANDY KIFER
Guest Writer

Five Wildcats made the trip to Durham last Friday to compete in the annual Duke Invitational, one of the largest
and most competitive collegiate outdoor track meets in the region. Davidson had two athletes, Douglas Noreen ’07 and Allie Martin
’06, in the 1500-meter run, and three athletes, Jonathan Baker ’06, Lance Harden ’09, and Sam Morris ’08, in the
five-kilometer race. Davidson managed to hold its own in an impressive field of elite athletes in both events.

Noreen had a breakout race in the 1500. “The plan was to get out in the back,” he said. “Those
guys there are pretty fast, and Coach didn’t want me to get sucked through the first quarter in something ridiculous
and die near the end.” As it turned out, the race opened in 62 with Noreen in third. “Just what
we were looking for, as far as time was concerned,” he said. From there, Noreen maintained a position near the
front of the heat for most of the race, and with a strong finish in the last 100 meters ran
a personal-record shattering 3:54, the approximate equivalent of a 4:11 mile. “I was very pleased with my performance,” said Noreen.
“It was exciting to compete in such a large and important event this early in the season.”

Long considered primarily an 800-meter runner, Noreen has had difficulty matching his successes in the 800 with equally impressive times
in the 1500. Friday’s race, a remarkable five-second improvement over his previous best, finally brought his 1500 time closer to
the level of his record-setting 800-meter performance last week, making him the second fastest 1500-meter runner ever to compete for
Davidson. Noreen has high hopes for the remaining few weeks of the season. Currently the second fastest runner in the
Southern Conference in both the 800 and 1500, Noreen hopes to continue his successes at the Conference meet in two
weeks at Georgia Southern. When asked if he would be competing in both the 800 and the 1500 at Conference,
Noreen replied that a final decision had yet to be reached. After a disappointing showing in the Conference 800-meter run
last year in which he didn’t qualify for the finals, Noreen will look to improve upon that performance. Last year,
Noreen had gotten lost on his warm-up, arrived at the track as his race was lining up, threw on his
jersey, sprinted across the infield, hurdling the flags marking off the discus area, only to arrive at the starting line
literally seconds before the gun went off, before proceeding to run the race without racing spikes. “Obviously, finding the track
itself will be a priority,” he said. If the Davidson men’s team has a chance at any victories, it will
likely be on the shoulders of Noreen.

Allie Martin had similar success in the 1500. Her time of 4:38 was not only a personal best; it also
set a new women’s school record. It is also the second fastest 1500-meter time run this season in the Conference.
On the approaching conference meet, Martin said, “The [Duke] race gave me a lot of confidence.” It should; she is
currently only two seconds behind the top 1500-meter runner in the conference and...Looks poised to compete for a conference victory.
“I was pretty happy with the race,” she said, “but I look forward to improving in the upcoming meets. It
was a great experience to race against such a talented field.”

The standout performance in the five-kilometer was Jonathan Baker’s personal-record setting time of 14:59, the fastest time run by a
Davidson athlete in years. Getting under the 15-minute mark proved an elusive goal for Baker in the last outdoor season
and this indoor season. Baker’s next 5k, at the Conference meet, will be his last as a collegiate athlete, and
he hopes to improve upon his most recent performance and score points for Davidson. Baker, currently fourth in the Conference,
should, with a good race, be able to achieve all-conference honors by finishing in the top three. Tyler Johnson of
Furman holds the fastest time in the 5k, nearly 20 seconds ahead of Baker, but aside from Johnson, Baker has
the talent and training to outrace any other 5k-runner in the conference.

Baker will hopefully be joined near the front of the Conference race by Lance Harden ’09, who did not fare
as well as Baker in the 5k this weekend. Harden’s race was, he said, a “stunning disappointment” that would surely
bring speculation as to whether this precocious freshman is “really all he’s cracked up to be.” Harden ran a school-record
setting 15:02 for 5k at the Indoor Conference meet last month, and yet this weekend missed that mark by a
substantial 22 seconds. Harden could not articulate the reasons for his less-than-noteworthy performance, beyond saying “I just fell apart, man.”
Harden plans to race the 10,000 meter in addition to taking another shot at the 5k at the Conference race,
a daunting and impressive double. Harden believes he is up to the challenge, though, and hopes to score points in
both.

Harden finished just behind Morris, who matched his previous personal best of 15:24. Morris was understandably frustrated with his race.
“I’ve run that same time [15:24] three weeks in a row now. I know I can go faster. The end
of that race was a battle, but I’m pretty confident that Conference will give me the opportunity to improve.” Like
Baker and Harden, Morris certainly has the talent to score at the conference level in the 5k, but, as he
knows, he will need to break his streak of 15:24s to do so.

Tiger Woods: Show some spirit, Tiger, and pressure your opponents for the win.

Rookies: Matt Leinart, former USC standout and probable first pick for QB in the upcoming draft, recently dropped his agent
and is looking for representation elsewhere. We can hear him now: Show me the money!

Doesn't Suck

Phil Mickelson: Phil donned the green jacket on Sunday after winning his second Masters.

Cardinals new stadium: The recently finished Busch Stadium in St. Louis had its home opener on Monday, complete with a
Budweiser Clydesdale parade prior to the first pitch.

Kasey Kahne's pit crew: Easily the reason Kasey won on Sunday in Texas, his pit crew gave him some great
starts and adjusted the car just right.

Yankees: Who else but Derek Jeter? With a three-run homer to end a five-run rally late in the game, Jeter
batted his team to their ninth straight home opener win.

For The Davidsonian’s final issues, Sports will run the Sucks/Doesn’t Suck feature. Those who wish to share the boons and
banes of their existences with the “greater college community” should email pitrumbo@davidson.edu. If your comment is ridiculous and/or relevant enough,
pitrumbo (not his real name) will include it in the next week’s paper.

Write for Sports. Email mojamouneau or pitrumbo.
