THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 2006

Murray speaks on replacing welfare state

By COLLEEN MCKOWN
Senior Staff Writer

Charles Murray, a social scientist, self-classified libertarian, and author of the controversial books “Losing Ground” and “The Bell Curve: Intelligence
and Class Structure in American Life,” spoke at Davidson last Wednesday. Murray discussed his new book, “In Our Hands: A
Plan to Replace the Welfare State,” which will be released Friday. His lecture at Davidson, cosponsored by the Speakers Committee
of the Union Board and the College Republicans, was his first public speaking engagement regarding his new book.

In Murray’s book, he proposes an alternate plan to government income transfer programs such as welfare, Social Security, Medicare, and
Medicaid. His plan is based on a $10,000 annual grant to all American citizens over 21. He proposes to deposit
the grant into every citizen’s bank account, and once someone makes over $25,000 per year, he or she must start
to pay back the grant. Murray’s proposal also makes it mandatory for each citizen to pay $3,000 of his $10,000
each year toward health care, therefore making health care accessible to all.

Murray believes that this would allow people to care for their families and themselves, which would resolve the current problems
of poverty and inadequate health care in the United States. Murray claims that “the plan” will benefit the people at
the bottom significantly, and that it has the potential to end poverty. “No one will need to live in squalor,”
Murray said. “Involuntary poverty is gone.” He said that the current problems with the “welfare state” are of principal concern
in the 21st century. “We are now in the last few decades before the collapse of the welfare state as
we have known it,” Murray said.

According to Murray’s calculations, by 2011 his plan would cost the same as the current plan. By 2020, it would
cost $500 billion less, and by 2028, $1 trillion less.

Charles Murray spoke last Wednesday. Murray said that the fundamental problem with the welfare state is that it “drains too
much life from life.” According to Murray, the government is completely incompetent in dealing with basic human needs. The three
ways of finding meaning in life, he said, are vocation, marriage or family, and community. “Something like the plan is
inevitable,” Murray said. “It is absurd that we have poverty in this country.” With the secular increase of national wealth,
he feels that everyone will...

Patterson Court Recycling Contest Update

Halfway through the contest, KA is in the lead for the $500 prize

KA: 45 lb. 5 oz. Very clean and bagged properly
RUSK: 24 lb. Very clean and bagged properly
Warner: 14 lb. 15 oz.
PDT: 8 lb.
Kappa Sig: 4 lb. 6 oz.
FI: 2 lb. 13 oz.
Turner: Full of plastic milk jugs
BSC: Contaminated with plastic
Connor: Contaminated with trash
SPE: Contaminated with trash and plastic
SAE: Highly contaminated
PIKA: No recycling

The EAC collected trash from around campus for an audit last November.Eventually, he saw the need for an alternative plan.
Murray also made some controversial comments about intelligence. He believes that IQ, not education, is the primary contributor to intelligence.
“IQ establishes boundaries,” Murray said. “Someone with an IQ of 100 can’t be a theoretical mathematician. Education cannot solve this
problem. There are limits. There are things each of us can’t do because we’re not smart enough.” Therefore, Murray rejects
the notion that any given person can aspire to any given profession. “It is not true that each of us
can be rich and famous. Fifty percent of the population is below the average intelligence,” Murray said.

Student reactions to Murray’s ideas varied. “College Republicans cosponsored Dr. Murray’s lecture because we are deeply troubled not only by
poverty in America, but also by past government policies that have failed to effectively combat this problem,” College Republicans President
Joseph Adams ’06 said. Adams hopes that Murray’s ideas will cause students to realize the current problems with the government’s
approach to dealing with poverty. “Dr. Murray’s plan to replace the welfare state is rooted in a belief that Americans
can better escape poverty if they are given money to manage on their own than if they are forced to
depend on a welfare-state model managed by unaccountable and inefficient bureaucracies,” Adams said. Adams also said that people who disagree
with the view do not have much trust in the American people to know what is “best for themselves.”

Sarah Allen ’08, on the other hand, strongly disagreed with Murray’s ideas. Though she feels that the current welfare system
contributes to the cycle of poverty, she doesn’t believe his ideas come close to an adequate solution. “I thought he
offered a great plan if you are a middle-class, well-educated American who knows how to manage money. But if the
intention is to solve the problem of poverty, then it’s a miserable failure because it does nothing to address the
root causes of poverty,” Allen said. “What he’s trying to do is to give American society a way to deny
all responsibility for poverty.” Allen felt that Murray did not address several key issues to the perpetuation of poverty, issues
such as the current state of our education system, the organization of cities, and the organization of the economic system.

Murray has worked at the American Enterprise Institute since 1990. He received a B.A. in history from Harvard University and
a Ph.D. in political science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Calling all Freshmen and Sophomore Economics Majors, and anyone interested in BUSINESS! The Davidsonian is currently looking for help with
Circulation, Advertising, and Business. All three of these positions are PAID! Email sabogue@davidson.edu for more information.
