14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2006

Tennis teams win season opener matches

By KEVIN BIRNEY
Staff Writer

It was a mixed bag for men’s and women’s tennis this week. Both teams won their openers but could not capitalize on that momentum to take the second contest, resulting in a 1-1 record for both squads during the week.

The men easily disposed of Gardner-Webb on Saturday behind strong efforts from singles winners Flaviu Simihaian ’08, Daniel Bermeo ’06, Phillip Compeau ’08, Ethan Jaffee ’09, and Scott Myers ’09.

“I think we played very well and all the matches were close. South Carolina State has a great team and they constantly qualify for the NCAA's. This match definitely prepared us for our next match.” --Daniel Bermeo ’06

Simihaian’s convincing 6-3, 6-0 win came over Gardner-Webb’s No. 1 seed, while Jaffee and Myers both won their first collegiate matches. On the doubles side, Simihaian and Bermeo won yet again while Joe Cheaney ’06 and John Bolton ’07 combined to secure the doubles point for the ’Cats with an 8-1 victory. Overall, the team won 6-1.

The men did not fare as well against South Carolina State the next day, however. The 6-1 score was reversed on Davidson as the Bulldogs took five of six singles matches and two of three doubles matches. Only Simihaian was able to pull out a win on the singles’ front with a 6-4, 6-1 victory. Cheaney and Bolton won their doubles match again but the 'Cats dropped the other two matches, ensuring that S. C. State would take the doubles point and go home winning.

’Cats place

By Ricky DIMON
Staff Writer

The Wildcat track and field team made its second of three season-opening visits to Chapel Hill last weekend, competing in the annual UNC Fast Times meet. A stellar field of opponents included major-conference powerhouses such as the host Tar Heels, North Carolina State, Duke, and Georgia. Familiar foes Greensboro, Charleston, Elon, and The Citadel also made an appearance.

“It's nice to see some fast results for our guys out of an early-season race. While it does look good to take the top three spots in a race, it is obvious that we’ll have to run a good deal faster if any of us are going to score at conference.” --Austin Mercadante ’06

Nowhere was the Wildcat presence felt more than in the men’s 5000 meters. The 'Cats blistered the competition, sweeping their way to the top three spots on the heels of Jonathan Baker ’06, Sam Morris ’08, and Austin Mercadante ’06. Baker and Morris engaged in a friendly final kick to the end that culminated with a photo finish. Baker’s time of 15:25.62 was just enough to edge out Morris, who posted 15:24.84. Not far behind them was Mercadante, who raced to a mark of 15:35.71, good enough to earn him third place honors. Although pleased with the outcome, the victorious ’Cats made sure to keep early-season success in perspective.

“It’s nice to see some fast resultsfor our guys out of an early-season race,” said Bermeo. Flaviu Simihaian ’08 is 2-0 in singles competition to start the season. “I think we played very well and all the matches were close,” said Bermeo. “South Carolina State has a great team and they constantly qualify for the NCAAs. This match definitely prepared us for our next match.”

The women followed a similar path to the men’s. On Thursday, they edged the Eagles of Winthrop 4-3 by winning three singles matches and scoring the doubles point. Kelsey Linville ’08 and Kim Whelan ’08 were particularly impressive, each winning their singles matches after teaming to win their doubles match. Emily Wilkinson ’09 also won her singles match, while Michelle Fanney ’09 and Lindsey Powell ’06 combined to win their doubles match. “Our team really came alive in doubles and fought hard to win games off such a highly ranked team,” said Betsey Haywood ’06. “The girls played some great singles matches. It showed promise of what we will be capable of this season in conference.”

No. 22 South Carolina posed a bigger challenge for the ’Cats, however, and Davidson was unable to compete with the Gamecocks on their home court, losing 7-0. USC swept all matches. Gardner-Webb is next up for the women (1-2) next Saturday, while the men (1-1) return to action on Friday against Presbyterian at home.

Mercadante said, “While it does look good to take the top three spots in a race, it is obvious that we’ll have to run a good deal faster if any of us are going to score at conference.” Baker agreed, saying, “It wasn’t a bad first 5K. For me personally, I still think I’ve got some work to do to run the time I want to run come conference.”

While the men’s 5000 meter triumph highlighted Davidson’s weekend, several other ’Cats turned in standout performances. In the mile, middle-distance specialist Douglas Noreen ’08 finished 14th out of 49 runners, crossing the finish line in 4:21.75. Noreen also teamed up with Brad Troxell ’08, Cisco Morales ’07, and David Ritchie ’07 in the distance medley relay. The squad raced to fourth place in a field of 12, and their time of 10:24.34 is among Davidson’s all-time top ten performances for that event.

The team’s success, however, was not limited to the distance events. In the long jump, Ryan Hubbard ’08 leapt nearly 22 feet, giving the men another 14th place finish. “We had some good performances this weekend, particularly out of the 5000-meter group,” coach Gary Andrew said. “Still, we know we have some work to do across the board.”

The ’Cats only have a few days to work before making another trip to Chapel Hill for the Carolina Invitational on Saturday. The Wildcat women, who took only a limited team to Chapel Hill, travel to East Tennessee State for a Saturday invitational of their own.

SPRING BREAK! Acapulco, Panama, Nassau. Special rates available. Call 1-800-678-6386.