12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Week Ahead

SPORTS WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2006

Introducing the real Player of the Year

By PIERCE TRUMBO
Sports Editor

Adam Morrison and J.J. Redick. That’s everyone anyone has heard of for this year’s Player of the Year. Two guys
who drain threes and hit clutch shots. Two guys separated by 3000 miles and one point in the scoring race.
Two guys who irritate, fascinate and inspire basketball-lovers. Two guys who came up short when it mattered most. So after
the weekend’s events, who is the Player of the Year?

The four finalists for the Naismith Award, apparently the most prestigious of the many season-end honors, are Redick, Morrison, Allan
Ray, and Rudy Gay. Not coincidentally, these fellows are all flashy big-personality guards, who do most of their damage on
the offensive end. And, oh yeah, these fellows are all not the Player of the Year. Ironically, the real Player
of the Year didn’t even make Dr. James’ list. Ladies and gentlemen, I introduce to you a man whom you
already know. He is a six-nine forward who changes opposing teams’ entire offenses. He is soft-spoken and vaguely reminiscent of
a gargoyle. He is Duke’s center and “landlord,” Mr. Shelden Williams.

All Mr. Williams did this year was average 18.8 points, 10.7 rebounds, 3.8 blocks, and 1.7 steals. Common sense and
a quick trip to ESPN.com for a little statistical comparison will show why these stats prove Shelden the best player
in the land. Let’s start with those who may be easily eliminated from consideration: Gay and Ray. Gay and Ray
are the typical representatives of players that the selection committee throws into the mix to honor the year’s best teams.
In other words, Gay’s and Ray’s nominations reflect more upon UConn’s and ’Nova’s successes than they do upon the players
themselves.

Gay, for example, isn’t even the best player on his own team. Rashard Anderson and Marcus Williams were more important
in UConn’s dramatic don’t-play-seriously-until-the-last-five-minutes-of-the-game tourney run. For his part, Ray’s 39.4 field goal percentage doesn’t stand up against the likes
of Redick (47.0) or Morrison (49.6), and his 3.6 boards and 0.1 blocks don’t compare to Shelden’s 10.7 boards and
3.8 blocks. The only argument for Gay or Ray would’ve been that unlike Redick, Morrison, and Williams, the UConn and
’Nova players, respectively, were still alive in the tournament. But Florida and upstart George Mason took care of that. Now
all four official candidates and my lone unofficial candidate will partake in the remainder of the tourney from a couch.

But let’s resume with a more legitimate candidate, the delightfully brash Redick. Redick had a torrid shooting season, leading the
ACC in scoring with 27.4 points a game. Still, as sportscasters have stressed, Shelden didn’t do half-bad either, finishing third
in ACC scoring. And then there’s the under-appreciated matter of defense. Shelden led the ACC in rebounding, grabbing 10.7 boards
a game. In over 35 minutes a game, Redick only averaged 2.0 boards a game. Shelden also blocked 137 shots
on the year. Redick blocked two. Of course, you might say that No. 4 was Duke’s best player because he
often seemed to win games by himself. “Seemed” is the key word. Don’t forget that while Redick was dropping 40,
Shelden was dominating defensively.

Adam Morrison has also been at the forefront of Player of the Year hype. Morrison led the ’Zags to 29
wins and averaged a nation-leading 28.4 points per game. Despite his six-eight height, Morrison played suspect defense and grabbed a
paltry 5.5 rebounds a game. All in all, he averaged 1.1 steals and 0.3 blocks per game. Again, Shelden’s numbers
(1.7 steals and 3.8 blocks) put Morrison’s in the shadows. All this doesn’t mean that Redick, Morrison, Ray, and Gay
weren’t among the best players, only that they weren’t the best player. They may have been more fun to watch
than Shelden, but “fun to watch” and “most effective” are different; and last I checked “most effective” matters more.

To prove this we need look no farther than this year’s tournament. As one of my idiot friends pointed out
to me, defense has proved the difference between winning and losing. Three quick examples: LSU shut down Duke. Florida slowed
down Villanova. UCLA put the clamps on Memphis. Now, the Tigers, Gators, and Bruins are in the Final Four. The
flashier offensive teams (Duke, Gonzaga, UConn, etc.) aren’t, proving that steals, boxouts, and defensive closeouts are just as important (if
not more so) than dunks, three-pointers, and fadeaway jumpers.

Now, I realize that Shelden had poor performances, too. He played horrendously in Duke’s loss to Georgetown. He got dunked
on by Ian Johnson ’06. He occasionally gave up big numbers to opposing forwards. These weaknesses acknowledged, don’t forget that
Shelden was the best off-ball defender in the country and that he showed up in the LSU game when his
teammate Redick, who will win (if Morrison doesn’t) the Naismith award, did not. And why will the worthy Mr. Williams
not garner Player of the Year honors? Quite simply because everyone (except most coaches) prefers offense. Not just chicks, but
fans, alumni, and sportswriters all dig theLong-ball. And to be honest, I do too. I mean, heck, who amongst us
doesn’t like it when a shooting guard drills a fade-away three right in a defender’s face? But when I think
clearly, which is always dangerous, I know that defense matters as much as offense. I also know that the award
system is biased towards offensively-geared players. Player of the Year and MVP awards in professional sports routinely go to the
most impressive offensive players. In fact, most sports have created a separate category — Defensive Player of the Year or
Defensive MVP — where often the best overall players end up. Such is Shelden’s fate.

Undiscovered athletes abound in Union
By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Senior Staff Writer

“In springtime, the only pretty ring time, When birds do sing, hey ding a ding, ding; Sports lovers love the
spring.” While the Bard’s sonnet reads “Sweet lovers love the spring,” I find that a certain vernal veneration exists among
sports lovers as well. And true, now that the first week of spring has passed (hailstorms aside), the weather turns
a more favorable eye upon frisbee, wiffle ball and other such outdoor pastimes. Gone are the indoor competitions of basketball,
wrestling and swimming. But before we get to frolicking too much, let us not forget the sports, alas, oft unreported
this winter season, that have had such success even within the walls of the Alvarez Union.

We start with the most visible and well-known sport to take place in the Union Atrium: juggling. Who among us
has not walked in and had a gloomy overcast winter day turned bright at the sight of Bill Giduz mystically
suspending tennis balls, bowling pins—perhaps infants will be next!—in midair. Often Giduz passes on his talents to the young, the
old and the in-between. Juggling is a talent I personally have yet to master for more than thirty seconds at
a go, so I have a great deal of respect for anyone who can handle more objects than he has
limbs. Juggling this year has been, as with last year, an impressive feat. I hope to see students continue this.

A Union sport that seems to require less talent, however, is ping pong. Again, I will own up to being
far less skilled than I wish I were, so I may not be in a position to criticize. But it
seems to me that any sport that attracts more drunk students than it does sober ones can’t be all that
difficult. Come on: you have a whole half of a table on which to place a ball smaller than my—
well, a small ball. Basketball players struggle to put their ball in a hoop only twice the size of the
ball and ten feet up in the air. Ping pong? Weak.

We roam up one floor and find two options available, the first of which is near and dear to my
heart. Foosball, ladies and gentlemen, is the ultimate Union spectator sport. It has all the elements of the games we
love to watch: the passing teamwork of soccer, the fast pace of basketball, the intensity of football, the grunting of
tennis and the immensely satisfying auditory element that is matched only by the sound of a well-hit home run. When
somebody rocks the back of the goal with a clean slapshot from the midfield position, you hear it echo fifty
feet away. Not only is foosball great for the fans, but it provides a great outlet of energy and honing
of talent for the athletes. Many a late night in the Union has been made bearable for me only by
the events that follow a cry for help to a friend that consists only of: “Foos!” Camaraderie, mutual respect, admiration:
all of it comes into play at this single small table. A friend of mine who happens to edit the
sports section keeps track of his record against me in foosball, which, he insists I note, since spring break is
9-5. Anybody looking either to procrastinate or to sharpen wrist reflexes need only find me in the Union and say
the magic word “Foos,” and ye shall receive.

Moving to the more secluded, darker corners of the Union, there is the somewhat shady but always character-full pool section.
Three tables of green felt, stained white from chalk and who knows what else, with one straight cue hidden among
the twelve warped ones. For a less intense but equally entertaining sport than foosball, all you need is the knowledge
of how to hit a ball with a stick. Another friend once shrieked in delight after her first success in
pool, crying, “I hit one! I hit one!” Pool, while it has been slandered by such propagandist films as “The
Music Man,” remains a game of character. You can always judge a personality by a pool style. You know what
it means when you see a woman with eyes intent send the cue ball screaming at her target and knock
that ball into the pocket with such force that at the sound of it every man in earshot doubles over
involuntarily. Personally, I have been absent far too long from these tables. I intend to make a Jordan-like comeback in
pool—his first comeback, not the second. Or the third. Dear God, not the third.

See Bradshaw, page 14
