THE DAVIDSONIAN

TOWNIES

An interview with Richard Welk, the man responsible for keeping ‘Lights on Davidson’

The Yowl: What exactly are your duties, Mr. Welk, during ‘Lights On Davidson’?

Richard Welk: Well basically it’s my job to keep all the lights on in Chambers and other academic buildings 24
hours a day.

TY: That sounds like a pretty demanding job.

RW: It’s not quite as bad as you might think. During the day, the lights have those sensors that keep
them on because students and faculty are always in there for classes and whatnot.

TY: What about during the night, when there isn’t as much activity?

RW: The night shift is always the hardest. The students are really considerate and helpful about it though. They'll spread
out all over Chambers, sometimes even occupying an entire classroom by themselves while studying. It must be awful lonely, but
I really appreciate their sacrifice. It makes my job a lot easier.

TY: How did you first get interested in this line of work?

RW: I’ve always liked light. Back when I was a kid, I used to be afraid of the dark and
would sleep with a nightlight. Then one night it burned out, and I couldn’t reach the replacement bulbs in my
closet. From that point on, I never wanted anyone else to have to go through that kind of experience I
went through that night.

TY: How has your job changed over the years?

RW: It’s been getting easier and easier. After the renovations, all I have to do is press a button in
the room to make sure the light stays on. Back in the day, I used to have to go around
starting fires in the rooms by rubbing two sticks together. Eventually, we got candles with matches, then those automatic lighters,
and finally light bulbs with a switch.

TY: Do you ever get any help?

RW: Sometimes I can get politicians, psychologists, members of certain religious groups, and even monkeys to help me screw in
light bulbs. Often these groups are highly inefficient, though.

TY: Are you able to get any sleep during the ‘Lights On’ weeks?

RW: Not much, sometimes I can catch a catnap here and there during the day. The job, however, doesn’t require
me to work much at all during the rest of the year. I usually take that time to hibernate, kind
of like a bear. Bears are my favorite animal.

TY: Anything else you would like to tell the Davidson community?

RW: Remember that watching movies in Chambers is illegal, especially during the ‘Lights On’ period because you have to turn
off the lights to watch a movie.

Administrators hope new Spring Frolics rides will reduce drinking

In an effort to reduce alcohol consumption at Spring Frolics this year, Davidson College administrators plan to rent only rides
that cause extreme motion sickness.

“At the last Spring Frolics, we had over 50 alcohol citations and sent two students to the hospital,” said Dean
of Students Annette Loughlin. “Our hope is that this year, the volatility of the rides will discourage excessive drinking.”

History Professor William Smith agrees wholeheartedly. “If we're going to have students getting sick, I’d much rather it be from
being turned violently upside down, thrown side to side and inhaling the ride’s exhaust fumes,” said Smith. “Anything but from
alcohol.”

The recently formed Davidson Rides Committee spent hours paring down lists of different vomit-inducing rides, eventually settling upon the Twirly
Whirl, the Upchuck, and the Nauseator.

“We're also hoping to get one of those pirate ships that goes all the way upside down and sort of
hangs there for a while,” said Loughlin. “The only downside of this plan is that we'll probably have to pay
the Physical Plant a little extra for the cleanup.”

Recent Battle of the Bands champions announce upcoming college tour

In light of their recent success unseating the reigning on-campus Battle of the Bands champions, the Davidson College Technology Resources
Department is taking their show on the road. After rocking the Alvarez Union not too long ago, Eddie Van Johnson,
Daniel McDavid, Reggie Gustafson, Natalie Hendries, Mark Stapleton, and Chet Malloy, affectionately called “Brown Sugar,” will be taking their act
of gritty, southern-blues rock to other colleges’ student festivals around the country.

“We totally rocked Battle of the Bands, so Chet and I figured, ‘hey let’s rock Battle of the Bands all
over the country,’ and it just went from there,” said McDavid.The tour is still building momentum, but as of now,
they plan to play and compete at:

HUMOR — What’s happening around Davidson

Similar Battle of the Bands contests at Emory, William and Mary, Coastal Carolina, as well as a party for the
Duke University Lacrosse team. The best part? They won’t need roadies. Every member of Brown Sugar spends their 9-to-5 slaving
away at Duke Performance Hall, arranging technical equipment and setting up for dance ensemble concerts and the RSC, but not
without the occasional rock n’ roll cigarette break. Van Johnson, who once attended the college, couldn’t be happier. “When I
graduated from this college, I’d never even imagined I’d be playing in a Davidson Battle of the Bands, let alone
win one,” he said. Brown Sugar, who currently have regular performances at a nearby bar called The Henhouse, are ready
to take their show on the road and see if they can make Davidson proud. “The Davidson community has really
nurtured us and received us well, both as students and now that none of us attend the college. All we
can do is go out there and make Davidson proud of us,” said Malloy. Brown Sugar will bring their Battle
of the Bands crown and advertising fliers alluding to the aforementioned award to Emory this Saturday, playing the 10th annual
McPhee Student Band Showdown, held at the McPhee Student Atrium.

Union Events Board cracks down on Dance Ensemble scalpers

Beth Yancey ’07, president of the Union Events Board, made an increased effort to reduce the amount of Dance Ensemble
ticket scalping this year. Scalping, which the Events Board turned a blind eye to in the past, had become rampant
in recent years due to the widespread popularity of the event. “Ticket resale had become too big of a problem
to ignore,” said Yancey. “Dance Ensemble tickets that were originally sold for $3 were being resold for hundreds and even
thousands of dollars.” Union administrators pressured Yancey to cut down on scalping as Dance Ensemble patrons complained about high prices
and counterfeit tickets. Ryan Morano ’08, the student coordinator for Duke Performance Hall events, said that counterfeit ticket sales resulted
in seats being sold to as many as five or six different people. “Entire groups of people were claiming ownership
to the same seat,” said Morano. “I don’t know how many times I had to explain to someone’s parents that
Davidson College does not issue any tickets in crayon.” Rebecca Holland ’06, a four-year dancer, blames the outrageous resale value
of Dance Ensemble tickets on increased participation in the event by students and the excess demand for seats by the
dancers’ families that this has created. The Union worked to keep scalpers away from Dance Ensemble. “I think I know
about four girls who don’t do Dance Ensemble,” said Holland. “With that many girls dancing, there’s no way to accommodate
all of their guests.” Longtime Dance Ensemble usher Harry Billups said that the Union Events Board should have worked to
stop the scalping problem a long time ago. “It had gotten to the point where only the most privileged could
come to the event, and that’s just plain wrong,” Billups said. “Everyone deserves Dance Ensemble.”

Time to peel those bumper stickers off

With graduation just around the bend, it’s time for seniors to start preparing to enter the “real world.” And if
there’s one thing the real world hates, it’s hippie, college bumper stickers. When commuting to your office job in downtown
Charlotte next year, you will want to look as professional as possible. That means it’s time to remove those bumper
stickers you put on freshman year. Here are some examples of cars in the satellite parking lot with bumper stickers
that had to go: As much as you might hate to part with marijuana-related stickers, they are highly unprofessional. Plus,
you can get a mild buzz from sniffing the glue residue. Let's face it, you tried to get the DMB
sticker off at least three or four times in the last year, but they put some pretty strong glue on
the back of it.
