Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday afternoon class poorly attended SEE PAGE 4

Guy in front of you wonders when pass/fail deadline is See Page 7

Health Center doctor ‘can’t do much about that’ See Page 11

Yowl caption contest not taken seriously See Page 12

Union Board’s snowman building competition still on hiatus See Page 13

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Honor Section Pit Crew: Bobby Kenner, Jeff Yeakel

Spare Parts: Brent McCormick

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editors at bokenner@davidson.edu or jeyeakel@davidson.edu.

Note: The Yowl is the humor and satire section of The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

Unleash the Beast February 22, 2006

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2006

The Davidsonian

NASCAR Technical Institute to take over former CoHo house

CoHo eating house announced last week that this would be its last semester in operation, citing low membership and financial troubles as the reasons for its closure. The void on the Court may be quickly filled, however, if recent talks with the nearby NASCAR Technical Institute (NTI) prove fruitful. Patterson Court administrators have begun talks with the NTI to bring a historically racing fraternity to campus as early as next fall.

While many students have complained about the presence of NASCAR students at parties in the past, some say the true problem is the fact that the NTI lacks an appropriate meeting ground on the Court.

“Our goal in bringing in a historically racing fraternity is that it will foster a better relationship between the racing and non-racing students,” said Patterson Court Council (PCC) advisor Jay Howard. “When you look at the makeup of the other PCC organizations on campus, you'll find they’re dominated by just the non-racing students. That’s something we’d like to change.”

Howard was first contacted about this idea by a group of eight NTI freshmen. The young men impressed Davidson administrators when they proposed a fraternity that was based strictly upon service.

“We can do all sorts of service,” said Dewayne Rudd, the NTI student who headed the proposal. “We will do oil service, body work and tire and parts service. Heck, we can even do engine service.”

Rudd went on to describe a fraternity community that he hopes would demonstrate leadership, fellowship, brotherhood and better than average gas mileage. The group is already working to get a sponsorship from Monster energy drinks.

A future NTI fraternity would provide members with food as well as social events. Rudd said a meal plan would consist of a healthy supply of beef jerky, frozen dinners and highly caffeinated drinks with catchy names. Some potential members have suggested themed party ideas like “Overalls Party,” “Freebird Party” and “Bring Your Sister Midwinter Ball.”

Despite support from the administration and most of the student body, not everyone thinks the CoHo house would be best utilized by a NASCAR-based organization. Union Board president Tina Shore ’07 is one of the---

More vocal opponents of the NTI fraternity. “This is a Davidson College facility, and it should be used to do Davidson College type things,” said Shore. “I have proposed that the Union Recess Committee take over the house and fill it with fun games, like 24-hour human Pac Man, four square, jump rope, bubble blowing contests, and candy time.”

Administrators have not yet decided which historically racing fraternity they plan on bringing to campus. Finalists include the prestigious national organizations “Car Phi Beer” and “Gas Kappa Skoal.”

Union director Michael Blue, however, insists there is no validity to Jones’ claims. “We've been working for nearly two years now to provide individually wrapped peanuts to our students. The demand for hot dogs, drinks, and single peanuts has caused quite a stir among the students who frequent the Union Café, among the local businesses as well. Thomas Jones, a local street vendor, is afraid these new regulations will kill his hot dog, drink, and peanut combination business.

“I have been selling food and drinks to students for nearly two years now, and it’s never been a problem before. Why the sudden crackdown?” he said. “I’m just completely baffled as to when this became an issue.”

Henry Partridge ’08, doesn’t like any of the policies. “I’ve been eating a peanut a day for years now, and my special ‘fountain drink, hot dog, and individual peanut’ special is being singled out by the library,” he said.

According to Jones, there may be internal pressures at work. “The Union Café has always been jealous of my success, and when I saw that they began selling individually wrapped peanuts, I knew something was up,” he said.

Blue does confess, however, that the price of the Union Café’s peanuts was almost double that of Jones’. The library prohibits the hot dog, drink, and peanut combination. Sara Mead ’07 even asked for a stash of peanuts for Christmas, hoping to enjoy them in the library. Ben Whitehead ’06 said he just enjoys a good hot dog, and he’s not going to let the library stop him. “Let them fine me,” Whitehead said. “I’m not going to sit here and let my right to eat hot dogs in front of expensive computers be taken away. These restrictions may work on sissies drinking Snapple, but not with me and my dogs,” he added.

Library Director Sunny Torch, however, is sticking to his decision. “The wonderful and moderately priced Union Café has been providing convenient and affordable meal alternatives to Davidson students for years,” he said. “I assure you that their recent acquisition of delicious, individually wrapped, oven-roasted peanuts is merely a coincidence in our decision to crack down on food consumption in the library.

“The cleaning staff is too often forced to empty garbage cans containing food and drink products, and it is just plain disrespectful to get Cheetos crumbs all over the books. Something had to be done,” Torch added.

For now, the library will be monitoring food and drink consumption with an iron fist, while students and local businesses struggle to get some answers.