THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2006

13

Kwan, ‘Grandma Luge’ taken down by injuries

By KEVIN BIRNEY
Staff Writer

This past week, the sports world shifted its attention from Detroit to Torino, Italy, as the Super Bowl gave way to the skiing, snowboarding, and skating of the 2006 Winter Olympic Games.

The Italians, who blew up enough fireworks during the Opening Ceremony to melt the snow off the Alps, kicked off the worldwide action on Saturday. Here’s a recap of the major stories over the first weekend, plus a preview of things to come:

Skiing

If only because of the controversial Bode Miller, skiing has had some of the most compelling stories early on in the games. Miller, considered the United States’ best skier, skipped practice on Monday after his disappointing fifth-place finish in downhill over the weekend.

Refreshingly honest, Miller created a media frenzy this summer in response to comments that skiing drunk is “not easy” and that he got “super-super-shitfaced” and pretty much “went from the bar to the race” before a competition in March 2005. Miller still finished sixth in the event.

Nike then sponsored Miller under the phrase “Join Bode,” without saying whether he should be on TV or drunk on a double black diamond. Despite being favored to medal in several events, the New Hampshire native has since been disqualified in the slalom.

On a more sad note, American Lindsey Kildow had a horrific crash in practice on Monday and had to be taken out on a stretcher. ESPN.com’s less-than-sympathetic headline read: “That thud you heard in Torino was probably another American stumble.” Many had projected Kildow to win gold.

Hockey

Struggling in the United States but highly anticipated in Torino, hockey features a loaded Canadian team that will only be challenged by Sweden and perhaps the Czech Republic. With Wayne Gretzky in tow, the Canadians are the favorites.

The Americans, picked to finish sixth by Sports Illustrated, will have to pull a Miracle Redux to earn a medal.

Figure Skating

The big story here has been Michelle Kwan, who came to Torino seeking an elusive first gold medal but will leave with an injury instead. Perhaps the greatest American skater ever, Kwan has won five world titles and nine U.S. titles but has consistently been shut out of Olympic victory.

“I’m not 13 anymore,” Kwan said while announcing her withdrawal due to medical reasons. Following her announcement, many criticized Kwan for showing up at all, accusing her of being selfish and taking the spot of an American who could have done better. Others admired her desire to try one last time.

American Sasha Cohen, fresh off a nice photo shoot for the Feb. 6 issue of “Sports Illustrated,” now probably holds the United States’ best chance of medaling.

Luge and Skeleton

For those who haven’t watched the luge and skeleton yet, these events are crazy. A man or woman straps him- or herself to a board and flies down a curved ice ramp at an average of 80-85 mph. The skeleton features an athlete on his stomach, while in the luge the athlete lies on his back.

The ramp has many turns and hazards for the competitors to navigate. Aptly named, skeleton is comparable to scaling a cliff; one wrong step could lead to death.

Anne Abernathy, a 52-year-old woman, is a highlight of this year’s luge competition. She is officially representing the Virgin Islands in luge, but unfortunately, “Grandma Luge,” as she is called, broke her hand in practice and now might not be able to compete.

Snowboarding

Shaun White, long the United States’ golden boy in snowboarding, lived up to expectations in his first event, winning gold in the half-pipe. Teammate Danny Kass also won silver.

The women followed suit a day later, as Hannah Teter took the gold and Gretchen Bleiler earned the silver. All in all, snowboarding has probably been the US’s best performance so far.

Snowboarding has also spawned a new Winter Olympic sport: snowboardcross. Four boarders race at a time, going down a 0.43-mile-long track at extremely high speeds.

The constant danger of the boarders crashing into each other and the way they all fly off the jumps at the same time make the event a must-see.

Miscellaneous

Many people prefer other games over speed skating, but the Americans are faring well in that sport, having already won two golds in three races. Joey Cheek won the men’s 500 meter and Chad Hedrick won the men’s 5000 meter.

The sport of curling features a team that brushes the ice with brooms so that a disc can slide as accurately as possible towards a target. So far, the US stands undefeated in curling action, defeating Norway 11-5.

The mascots of the Torino games, two stick-like figures with blocks of ice for heads, have come under criticism. The mascots were chosen after winning an international competition.

Student Special
RENAISSANCE

PULSED LIGHT HAIR REMOVAL

129 E-Williamson Road
Mooresville, NC 28117

704-799-2843

Offering 20% off Hair Removal

AND
Acne Therapy Packages

Have Silky Smooth Skin for Good!

Call Today for your FREE consultation

“Hair today, gone tomorrow!”