THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 2006 7

New art exhibit explores racial issues through fantasy

By AMOURA CARTER
Staff Writer

When was the last time you walked into an academic building and thought you were in a fairy tale? In a new art exhibit titled Black Fairy Tales and Other Myths, Visiting Professor of Art McArthur Freeman explores stereotypes through original and famous characters, many of which come from popular children’s works.

Freeman credited artists from Degas to Robert Colescott as sources of inspiration, illustrating his eclectic artistic tastes and styles. The artist’s diverse interests are also reflected in his career path, which has allowed him to combine his loves of painting and teaching.

Before coming to Davidson, Freeman, who holds an M.F.A. in Painting from Cornell University, was a Professor of Art at Clarion University in Pennsylvania.

For the artist, drawing and painting came naturally at an early age. “Early on, I admired several comic book artists and illustrators, and often invented my own characters and narratives to go along with them,” he said. “In college, I was most interested in figure drawing and painting.”

Freeman, who came to Davidson in 2004, has thoroughly enjoyed his experience as a professor of Basic Studio Art. “The students are sharp and definitely willing to push themselves, though the classes are shorter. I’ve taught more information in a shorter period of time and they have been able to handle it,” he said.

Being at Davidson has also allowed Freeman to pursue his professional goals to a greater extent, as demonstrated by his most recent collection. “I wanted to develop my artwork and specific areas of teaching, so it was a perfect fit for me.”

Freeman’s original idea for the collection came from his thoughts about the classic novel and Walt Disney movie “Alice In Wonderland,” which is set in a ridiculous and abstract fantasy world. He saw parallels between the absurd realities that we ignore today and the fantasies that we construct that allow us to do so.

Pinocchio is a familiar figure in several of Freeman’s works, including “Strange Fruit.”

Freeman synthesized fairy tales, fantasy and cartoon imagery with historical narratives, stereotypes, and other ideas about race in the collection’s works, most of which are recent productions.

“I started working on the character sketches a little before I came to Davidson, but most of the work was created here,” he said.

“Black Fairy Tales and Other Myths” features several themes that orbit around the notion of a constructed reality. As Freeman explained, “ideas about race are handed down and packaged through generations and we accept them. We then create and reproduce our own fantasies and myths. American culture is one of hybridity and it becomes very difficult to dig up the sources of our beliefs over time.”

For this collection, Freeman tried to incorporate the concept of constructed reality into his works.

One of the artist’s favorite paintings is “Gimme Some Sugah,” which he said “combines elements of the other paintings and has a certain type of complexity about it that interests me.”

Freeman employed old stereotypical black and fantasy images like minstrels in the work, which has an eerily cheery and almost carnival-like feel to it. Though Freeman loves his paintings, he also enjoys the freedom of sketching, which allows him to put products of a stream of consciousness down on paper. The artist credits this process as crucial to the development of ideas for his works.

Freeman believes his paintings are important because they bring issues to the forefront that society often sweeps under the rug.

“In our culture we don’t have to teach myths and stereotypes, they are absorbed through the culture. The only way we can identify and resolve complex issues is to talk about them,” he said. “My paintings invite the viewer to look up the stereotypes, become involved in the imagery, and then confront their own constructed narrative.”

Freeman’s collection is on display in the Van Every Smith Gallery of the VAC until April 14th. The gallery is open Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.

Freeman’s “Soap Box” depicts fantasy characters in an unusual and provocative way.

Since the U.S. Invasion of Iraq
3/18/06:

U.S. soldier deaths:
2313

Iraqi civilian deaths:
Between 33,679 and 37,795.

ARE YOU CONTENT?

- Join us for
The March of Discontent
Sun, Mar 26, 2pm
Meet at Griffith St.

Just Peace.
info from iraqbodycount.net and antiwar.com/casualties