16

Streaky play
By Suzie ECKL
Staff Writer

The Wildcats finished out their regular season with an overtime win against Furman, 65-58, and entered the Southern Conference Tournament
as a three-seed, defeating Elon, 55-53, before falling to UNC-G, 69-58, in the semifinals.

On Senior Day, Janell Crayton ’06 led the Wildcats with 14 points in their win over Furman to bring the
regular season to a dramatic close. All five starters scored in double digits: Danielle Hemerka ’08 with 12, Brynn Kelly
’07 with 11, and Jessica Mitchell ’07 and Kelly Gassie ’09 with 10 each. After getting an early lead, the
Wildcats watched as Furman went on a 10-0 run halfway through the first period to get a lead that they
would not relinquish until the second. Down by 12, Davidson then returned the favor, keeping Furman from scoring for almost
six minutes. Furman retired to the locker rooms with a five-point lead at the half.

Shooting above the season average shooting percentage at 48.1 percent, Davidson led by as many as six points in the
second, but clean free throws shot by Chrissy Phelps at the one-second mark after a foul by Mitchell ensured overtime
for Furman. Mercedes Robinson ’09 scored six points in overtime, and eight of Davidson’s 12 overtime points were shot in
the paint. Furman, with only five more points in the extra period, could not stop the Wildcats. Finishing with the
second most wins in the program’s history and with 12 SoCon wins, the third best in history,

Player of the Week — Brendan Winters ‘06
Men’s Basketball
Hometown: Denver, Co.
Major: English

Winters scored a career-high 33 points to lead the men’s team to an 80-55 victory against Chattanooga in the SoCon
championship. With the win, Davidson received an automatic bid for the NCAA tournament. Winters, for his part, was named the
tourney’s MVP.

4 SPORTS

leads to Wildcats’ 10-7 record
By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Senior Staff Writer

Since the last update on the baseball team, the Wildcats have completed 14 games, finishing the stretch with a record
of 8-6. The most recent game, at South Carolina on Tuesday, resulted in a 9-2 loss. Back in February, the
'Cats downed Army, took two from Niagara and lost to Auburn. Against Xavier, the Wildcat sluggers battled back from a
first inning 8-0 deficit to come as close as 8-7, but ultimately lost by the difference of a three-run homer
by the Musketeers. The boys in black and red then swept Columbia for four wins at home, sending the Lions
back to their Ivy League and taking the athletic laurels for themselves. The closest Columbia came to taking one away
from Davidson was game three, in which Blake Osborn '07 gave up a three-run shot in the top of the
first. After the inauspicious start, however, a Gregory Zage '07 sacrifice fly scored Brett Shore '09 in the fourth, and
Ronnie Shore '06 knocked around two men in the fifth on a double to tie the game. Another five innings
passed without score, ended by Alden Crissey '07, who hit a grounder up the middle to score Jordan Mills '09
in the bottom of the eleventh.

An away game against the Bulldogs of Gardner-Webb, the Wildcats lost a heartbreaker in the bottom of the ninth. A
4-0 lead after the top of the sixth, riding a one-hitter from Michael Kaufman '06. Kaufman, a veteran closer, made
his first career start and blanked the Bulldogs for five before allowing two on base in the sixth, who both
scored when reliever Brian Packey '08 gave up a longball to make the score 4-3. The 'Cats scored once more,
but gave up two runs in the eighth and ninth to fall 5-6.

In a three-game home stand against Wofford to open Southern Conference play, Davidson went 1-2, including a the Wildcats obtained
a bye for the first round of theTournament. Two days later, Crayton and Mitchell were named to the 2005-06 All-Southern
Conference coaches and media teams while Gassie joined the all-freshman team. Neither Crayton nor Mitchell had ever before received an
all-league selection. Gassie is the second Wildcat to ever be named to the all-freshman team, the only other being Hemerka.

On Friday, March 3, Davidson competed in their first game of the SoCon Tournament, pulling out ahead of the Phoenix
of Elon. In a game that featured nine lead changes and five ties, Davidson shot below their season shot percentage
average but still managed to tie Elon at the half with 26 points and then outscore them 29-27 in the
second. Davidson led by as many as 12 in the second period, and sat on an 11-point lead with 6:42
on the clock, but Elon shut the Wildcat offense down for over five minutes to get the brief lead with
1:27 remaining. Just 10 seconds later, Crayton put in a layup to regain the lead which the Wildcats did not
let go for the remainder of the game. With two three-pointers in 10 seconds, the Phoenix did all they could
to get back the win, but team-leading Crayton, who scored 21 for the ’Cats, had the final point of the
game on a free throw thus advancing Davidson to the semifinals.

The next day, the Wildcats saw their post-season come to an end at the hands of UNC-G. Davidson shot below
average throughout the game while two-seeded UNC-G hit.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, March 15, 2006

25-15 loss in the last bout with the Terriers. The first game saw the Wildcats struggle to score, remaining goose-egged
through five. Alex Entrekin '06 started a three-run sixth with an RBI to score Zage from second. Entrekin proceeded to
take third on a failed pickoff attempt and score on a sacrifice grounder from Crissey. Osborn rounded out the inning
with a deep shot to left for a free lap that cut the deficit to 8-3. Errors, however, plagued the
‘Cats in this conference opener. Five of the Terriers' runs came unearned, and their margin of victory was only two.
Davidson racked up another four runs in the seventh inning, loading the bags and scoring off a sac fly from
Zage and a subsequent three-run home run from Crissey. They managed to add only one more after that, however, and
came up short on the 10-8 final.

Game two put the first conference victory on the board for the 'Cats as Rob Wilson '07 let in a
stingy two runs through eight innings. Wilson also broke a 2-2 tie in the fifth inning with his two-run shot
over the left field fence. Kaufman closed out the pitching for the day with a scoreless ninth, ensuring the 7-2
win. Hugh Eden '08 contributed two runs and an RBI on three hits to the Davidson effort.

The rubber match between Davidson and Wofford jacked up the ERAs of all the pitchers as it finally totaled to
25-15, Terriers on top. Wofford scoring came hard and fast in the first and sixth, where they put six and
12 on the board, respectively, against Wildcat pitching. Three Davidson errors in the first helped the Terrier cause, giving them
unearned runs. For the 'Cats, Jay Heafner '06 pounded out three runs and four RBIs on four for five hitting
(including, you guessed it, a three-run homer), also recording a pair of putouts and eight assists on defense. Also making
their mark were Dan Obermeier '06 and Mills, who came off the bench to add three RBIs and one run,
and three runs and one RBI respectively.

Patrick Coman’s (’06) semifinal win at SoCon wrestling championships. Coman beat his opponent from The Citadel 8-4 in the semifinals
of the SoCon championships. He went on to capture second in the 125-pound weight class, the highest-placing Wildcat at the
event.
