THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2006. 3

PCC to host Jambalaya Jamboree

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

A Jambalaya Jamboree will be hosted this Saturday by Patterson Court Council (PCC), the Community Service Office, and Davidson Athletics to raise funds to support the rebuilding of New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina.

Chefs from the PCC organizations will prepare Cajun food and serve it in the Baker Sports Pavilion preceding the men’s basketball game against conference rival Furman University.

Although the event is free, PCC suggests that each person who attends donates $1. The event’s proceeds will benefit Maplewood Middle School in Sulphur, Louisiana.

“Everyone thinks of Patterson Court as the center of partying and noise on campus, but a lot of people forget the fact that a lot of service goes on.”
--Emily Zipperstein ‘08

Both the cookout and the basketball game will be Mardi Gras-themed.

“Mardi Gras is basically the symbol of New Orleans, and this event is about looking forward from Hurricane Katrina,” Connor House cookout organizer Emily Zipperstein ’08 said.

Zipperstein said that Patterson Court organizations have been hosting individual service projects to raise money for the victims of the hurricane throughout the year.

This weekend’s event, however, is a combined effort to raise money for a recovering New Orleans.

Although the event’s focus is on rebuilding the Gulf Coast, photos taken in the wake of the hurricane will be displayed to serve as a reminder of its destructive power.

PCC leaders said they also envision the event as an opportunity to build relationships between PCC members and non-PCC members, between Davidson students and members of the community.

“Part of the mission of Patterson Court Council is to connect students to the community, both the internal Davidson campus community and the external community,” Turner House cookout committee member Sarah Madison Davenport ’07 said.

Local publications such as The Lake Norman Times will cover the event.

Such publicity may help to emphasize the service performed by members of court organizations.

Yolanda Carrillo ’08 said she believes the event will foster a better image for the court.

“I think these [service events] do help [Patterson Court’s image] because the whole campus gets to participate in a service event that isn’t just an individual house project, but has a broader focus and reminds everyone that the court isn’t just about parties,” Carrillo said.

Zipperstein also believes that the cookout will help reshape the court’s image.

“Everyone thinks of Patterson Court as the center of partying and noise on campus, but a lot of people forget the fact that a lot of service goes on,” Zipperstein said.

The game starts at two, and the chefs will begin serving food at one.

THE BUSINESS WORLD AWAITS. YOU NEED TO STAND OUT. SPEND THREE WEEKS THIS SUMMER AT THE NATION'S TOP-RANKED SMALL, PRIVATE BUSINESS COLLEGE.

Skelton assumes presidency, Arnold administration evaluated

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

Former Student Government Association president Ryan Arnold ‘06 welcomed new president Mac Skelton ’07 into office during the Feb. 9 SGA meeting.

The commencement of the new administration provides an opportunity to reflect on the effectiveness of SGA under Arnold’s leadership.

Arnold was an unusual student body president because he assumed office with no previous SGA experience.

“Ryan came in as an absolute newcomer to SGA,” said Vice President of Student Life and Dean of Students Tom Shandley. “What he lacked in knowledge, however, he made up for with an open communication style that’s accessible to lots of members of campus.”

In addition to his communication abilities and his widespread connections to different campus groups, Arnold embarked upon his term as president endowed with another major strength.

“Because [he] lacked experience, we all wondered how he would do,” Shandley said. “However, what he did have was [SGA vice-president] Bridget [Kane ‘06]. She was the most involved vice president I’ve seen in a long time, and she deserves an awful lot of credit for [the administration’s] successes.”

Initially, the lack of experience in the administration made Kane nervous.

She had been abroad during the fall of 2004, and, although she had maintained contact with then-president Katherine Hubbard, neither Kane nor Arnold knew exactly what had been transpiring in SGA when they assumed office in the spring of 2005.

Kane said she soon realized that their complementary leadership styles would help to smooth the transition.

“[Ryan] asked to be taught,” said Kane. “He was very receptive to the things that I told him. It was easy to teach him.”

After the initial transitional period, Arnold, Kane, and the rest of the organization’s members established six overarching goals to achieve throughout the course of the administration.

“I understand that a lot of what [SGA does], like changing its bylaws, is not very interesting, but we work to do a lot for students,” Arnold said.

Throughout the Arnold administration, SGA emphasized increasing communication with the student body.

The organization worked to produce a regular newsletter and to develop an SGA website, which is in its final stages of preparation.

The administration also focused on using the SGA bulletin board in Chambers in order to more effectively communicate with students.

Another bulletin board will appear in the Union in the upcoming weeks.

Arnold and the senators also worked to revamp the SGA internally by evaluating and improving its structure and efficiency.

According to Kane, one internal organizational shift that allowed the administration to achieve many of its goals was a movement from committees established in the bylaws to committees that focused on the specific goals that the administration had set.

See SGA, page 5