THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Hempson wins scholarship to study identity politics

By SARAH BALEY
Staff Writer

Leslie Hempson ’06 recently received Davidson’s W. Thomas Smith Scholarship for her academic achievement, leadership potential, and desire to serve
others. Awarded annually to one graduating senior, the scholarship enables the student to study abroad for a year on an
all-expenses-paid trip.

Smith Scholar Leslie Hempson ’06

Hempson, a political science major, plans to study Identity Politics and Hindi at Jawaharlal Nehru University in Delhi, India. Her
limited stay in India will not permit her to earn a degree from the University, which requires two years of
study. “Mainly, I just want to get a greater sense of familiarity with India. It’s a country that’s very important
to me and a country I will keep returning to,” Hempson said.

Her departure in early July will mark Hempson’s third trip to India. She visited there in the fall of 2004
while participating in the Davidson in India study abroad program. She returned in the summer of 2005 while researching her
independent study of women and Islam through financial support from the Dean Rusk International Studies program and the Kemp Scholarship.

In addition to covering her stay in India, the Smith Scholarship will enable Hempson to travel outside the country while
on breaks from the University. “All the previous recipients of the scholarship have traveled through the UK so they haven’t
had a lot of money left. But India is much less expensive... I’ll have a lot of funds to travel
[with.] President Vagt has encouraged me to do that,” Hempson said. Hempson knows that she wants to travel to Malaysia
and she is currently considering a visit to China as well.

Hempson first learned of the scholarship from Director of the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies and German professor Scott Denham, who
promoted the scholarship when she was an underclassman. She began working on her application the summer before her senior year.
Hempson submitted three letters of recommendation, a written application, and a project proposal that explained what she wanted to do
and why. In addition, she was interviewed by a panel of eight to nine people who selected her over the
other five candidates.

In preparation for her departure in July, Hempson plans to begin Hindi lessons over the summer. She is not concerned
about the language barrier, however. “English is the language [of] the universities and the government and the major cities. Most
of the people you encounter there will speak at least a few words. You can get by,” Hempson said.

The opportunities made available to her by the Smith Scholarship fit into Hempson’s overall career plans. “I think probably in
the next three to four years I’ll enter a PhD program in either Comparative Politics or South Asian history. Right
now I’m just thinking about the classical PhD program: teach at a university, perform research — but there are also
[positions available at] think tanks,” Hempson said.

KA, from page 1

Graves ’07 was apologetic about the violations. “KA apologizes for everything that has occurred,” Graves said. “Our intent was never
to harm anyone. This is not representative of KA as a fraternity or any specific individuals. It is something that
was embedded in our house and in other houses.”

The College has permitted KA members to eat meals in the house for the remainder of the semester. In the
spring of 2007, former members of KA will meet with advisors to develop a new member education program that is
in compliance with College and national fraternity standards. If the plan is approved, KA may be eligible to return to
campus in the fall of 2007.

When a fraternity or eating house is suspected of violating the New Member Bill of Rights, the case often goes
straight to the Patterson Court Judicial Board. However, Shandley said he has the “right and responsibility” to investigate and hear
more serious cases. President Bobby Vagt categorized KA’s violations as “very serious.” Addressing the issue of new member infractions, he
said, “We need to either figure it out, or we need a new eating house system, because we are not
going to jeopardize the health and safety of Davidson students.”

Most of the violations occurred during “Hell Week,” a traditionally difficult week of fraternity pledging. “They took pledges and shipped
them to various off-campus houses and asked that they stay there during Hell Week,” Shandley said. Shandley said that during
the investigation, it became “apparent that these activities had gone on to some degree for quite some time.” “This was
very planned and organized, versus something spontaneous and wrong that they got caught for,” Shandley later added.

Former KA members have initiated an internal review to address the violations and are working to revise their new member
education programs for the future. “I am sorry to say that these are problems that other frats are facing,” Graves
said. “Traditions, if you will, are not easy to change.” Shandley said he recognizes that such violations at Davidson are
not limited to KA and occur at campuses across the country. “I am not trying to tear down"KA," said Shandley.
"Frats have been struggling with this for decades," Shandley said. In response to the incident, Shandley said the college will
look at how it educates new members and try to be more proactive. "It’s not my desire to shut down
and remove fraternities, but we need to make sure it is a fun and safe experience," he said. Graves suggested
a stronger dialogue between the leaders of Patterson Court houses. "This is not just a problem with KA in particular
on this campus, but also other fraternities on campus and nationwide," Graves said. "It’s not a small secret that these
things occur. It needs to stop and be addressed."

---

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2006

Senators discuss funds, restructuring bylaws

By JILLIAN BARTELS
Staff Writer

The Student Government Association (SGA) discussed funding issues and restructured certain SGA bylaws during last Thursday’s meeting. Newly elected senators
from all classes were sworn in at the beginning of the meeting.

The SGA approved a measure to create an SGA committee dedicated to Community Service and Development. This committee would be
responsible for coordinating service projects as well as examining policies regarding service on campus. They would work in conjunction with
the Community Service Director and the Engage for Change board.

The SGA decided to add a board to organize Engage for Change, a new initiative on campus to raise awareness
about worldwide human rights issues like hunger and homelessness. The board would report to SGA but would have more individual
control than a regular SGA committee.

The senators also discussed changing the structure of the groups that report to SGA. Currently, there are councils and committees,
but it is unclear that the two groups really differ that much in structure. SGA President Mac Skelton ’07 suggested
that they discuss reorganizing the bylaws to reflect that committees and councils are not actually that different. The senators then
chose which committees they wanted to join for the upcoming year.

The SGA examined its proposed budget, which was sent to the Activities Tax Council (ATC) for approval on Friday. SGA
is requesting a total of $14,750 for this year to cover things like the athletic trips they organize to different
Davidson games, the cost of the new Vamanos van program, and special projects the SGA sponsors on campus.

Chair of the ATC Committee Hanoko Kawataba ’06 suggested that senators approve $60 to cover the women’s club tennis team’s
transportation costs for one of their away matches. The team originally requested money to cover their costs for lodging while
away as well, but it was thought that the athletics department could cover those costs. Senators approved the appropriation of
this money to women’s club tennis.

Kawataba also suggested that SGA approve funding for Davidson Outdoors’ (DO) recent purchase of 10 new kayaks and 16 new
kayak skirts. Usually, these kinds of requests would be made in the fall, but DO sold some old kayaks early
in the season so they could get the highest amount of money for them and is requesting the difference from
SGA. This was also approved and the money will be taken into account when DO makes their annual funds request
in the fall.

---

Stoops, from page 2

Iraqi student that documented the six nights that Davidson student Dylan Atwood ’07 spent living on the streets of Washington,
D.C. in March 2005. "It was very powerful, some of the statistics especially. I was kind of oblivious to this
before. It made me feel more aware. I feel that I should really engage for change." --Vaidehi Trivedi ‘09

"It was very powerful, some of the statistics and the videos especially," Vaidehi Trivedi ’09 said of Stoops’ talk. "I
was kind of oblivious to this before. It made me feel more aware. I feel that I should really engage
for change."

Stoops’ family and Quaker upbringing influenced his decision to become an advocate for the homeless. His grandfather, who became homeless
after losing his job and farm, also contributed to his compassionate view. "He was the first homeless person I ever
got to know," Stoops said. "He became poor white trash, the homeless drunk. He died like many homeless people, of
the elements."

Stoops also credited President John F. Kennedy with influencing his fight against homelessness. "When President Kennedy issued that clarion call
‘Ask not what your country can do for you but what you can do for your country,’ at age 11,
I was inspired by that," Stoops said. "Little Michael Stoops asked what he could do for his country."

Stoops was an anti-war, conscientious objector in college. After graduating, he lived and worked with Catholic Worker Movement co-founder Dorothy
Day in New York. "She had the idea that if you work with the poor, you should live like the
poor, be a conscientious objector, and not pay taxes because 44 percent goes to the military," Stoops said. "I volunteered
full-time for 25 years."

Today, as the acting executive director of the National Coalition for the Homeless, Stoops works to establish support for housing
and homelessness and coordinates the Coalition’s national events. Engage for Change sponsored the Oxfam dinner at 6:30 in the Sprinkle
Room and will hold a sleep-out next Tuesday.
