THE DAVIDSONIAN

Stealing, from page 1

been moved to behind the cashier desk, where students must ask to purchase them.

“Vail is an all-you-can-eat facility, but our budget is set up anticipating that we are not also providing snacks or additional meals to students after they leave the facility. A meal plan is payment for meals eaten in Vail only.”
--Richard Terry
Director of Auxiliary Services

“We find more paper/food wrappers with the contents inside missing in the store after we have had a big meal rush. We especially notice this occurrence near the end of each semester as students are low on declining balance or bonus bucks,” Director of Dining Services Dee Phillips said.

Stealing in the Union has caused tea packets to be moved behind the desk.

“We have been given the direction by administration that if an employee sees someone walking out without paying, or eating and throwing the wrapper down inside the servery, to get their name and turn it in to the Dean of Students,” Phillips said.

Bryant Kirkland spoke on behalf of the Honor Council and indicated that there is no one punishment for stealing.

“The Council works on a case-by-case basis,” Kirkland said, “and while we on the Council are not unmindful of precedent, we try to be sensitive to the particulars of every case.” He, however, emphasized that “stealing is an Honor Code violation that could be tried as such before the Council.”

As for now, the café has attempted to prevent the need to take such drastic measures by repositioning food stands, moving smaller items to be more visible to cashiers, and placing reminders around the premises.

“It’s a tough balance and one that requires constant attention,” Terry said.

Engage for Change focuses on hunger and homelessness
By Emily Kota
Senior Staff Writer

Engage for Change will sponsor a series of events focusing on the issues of hunger and homelessness from Mar. 27 to Apr. 9. A large number of campus organizations are also sponsoring the program, either through monetary or event-planning support.

“We hope to engage the campus in a more sustained and deep dialogue in the broadest way possible on the issue,” Emily Presley ’07 said.

Engage for Change, a new student organization at Davidson, began with a meeting of concerned students last semester. The organization plans to apply its efforts to cover different topics each year.

As part of this year’s program, the students met with leaders of organizations already involved with the issues of hunger and homelessness. They began planning a week of events, but their ideas expanded to fill a longer two-week period.

“We wanted to involve the leaders of various student groups in order to make the effort more collaborative,” Nicole Mader ’06 said. Individuals picked events to coordinate, and their diligent work will be on display during the two-week program.

Engage for Change functions through several key components, which include increasing awareness through talks and panel discussions, advocacy, service, and fundraising.

“Through the work of Engage for Change, we hope to help confront issues of hunger and homelessness on campus,” Elizabeth Henry ’08 said.

Students involved with Engage for Change planned the events around the lecture by Dean Rusk-sponsored speaker and President of Bread for the World David Beckmann. Beckmann will speak on Apr. 9 at 7 p.m. in the Duke Family Performance Hall.

“Beckmann’s organization focuses on hunger advocacy, with the goals of ending hunger and seeking justice,” Henry said.

On Friday, Mar. 3, Engage for Change will host a coffeehouse where people can enjoy hearing student performers in addition to learning about the ONE campaign, the UN Millennium Development Goals, and worldwide efforts to combat poverty and hunger.

Patterson Court Council and the Student Government Association (SGA) will co-sponsor a Pig Pickin’ BBQ on Thursday, Apr. 6. The catered event will benefit Loaves and Fishes, which is an organization that provides food and support for people in crisis situations. The dinner, which is open to students and community members, will cost $5, with all money going to the organization. As part of the Feinstein Challenge, allThe money raised will also be matched by a grant. Corporate sponsors will match donations that will be going to the Urban Ministry Center. Other events include a lecture delivered by Acting Executive Director of the National Coalition for the Homeless Michael Stoops on Mar. 27, an Oxfam Hunger Banquet on Mar. 29, an Urban Ministry Center vs. Davidson College soccer game on Apr. 1, and a Faces of Homelessness panel and viewing of student documentaries on Apr. 4. See Engage, page 4.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 2006

Senators allocate annual funds, nominate ATC representatives
By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

The Student Government Association (SGA) allotted a considerable amount of funding to various projects during last Thursday’s meeting. The meeting began with the official bequest of the annual Improve Davidson Fund (IDF) grant and the incorporation of the Engage for Change initiative. Chair of the IDF Committee Hanako Kawabata ’06 strongly recommended Engage for Change to the SGA for approval.

“This year we only had one request, but it was a wonderful request,” Kawabata said.

Engage for Change is headed by Davis Greene ’09 (Just Peace), Elizabeth Henry ’08 (Sanctuary), Emily Presley ’07 (Independent), and SGA President Mac Skelton ’07. The group is 19 campus organizations, is a year-long effort to address social justice issues by pooling the resources of pre-existing groups that already address problems like homelessness, hunger, and education.

“This is a real grassroots initiative,” Kawabata said.

The IDF Committee offered Engage for Change $3,300, half of the total IDF grant. The other half of the funding will become available to the initiative if it passes a mid-year budgetary and progress review. SGA met the precedent it had set during the previous week’s meeting, during which it officially endorsed Engage for Change, by unanimously approving the IDF Committee’s recommendation and officially incorporating Engage for Change as an arm of SGA.

In conjunction with SGA’s approval of Engage for Change, Skelton proposed the creation of a Service and Community Development Committee and an Engage for Change Board. Several senators hesitated to add two new bodies to the already cluttered SGA bylaws currently under revision. Skelton responded by pointing out the need for an organized means by which to receive the Engage for Change funding.

“If we don’t have anything that can receive this funding, then there’s no funding to receive,” Skelton said.

The senators agreed to table the motion and to review it next week. The next order of business involved the allocation of funds as SGA voted unanimously to cover $1,050, or one-third of the total cost, for the bus to the Davidson-OSU game. Senator John Helms ’07 then presented an update on the upcoming Information Technology Services (ITS) overhaul of the Davidson website. ITS will soon implement a Content Management System that will require student organizations to use templates to create their webpages. The goal is to create an official Davidson website with a unified look and easy access to organizations’ webpages.

The ITS project will involve three stages. The first will update the Davidson homepage and the links directly attached to that page, the second will revise the library website, and the third will unify organization webpages.

“I want to make sure that ITS receives student feedback about these changes so that student groups can get what they need,” Helms said.

SGA President Mac Skelton then moved to nominate candidates to represent SGA on the Activities Tax Council (ATC). SGA representatives fill two spots on the body. Nominations sparked debate, however, because with the upcoming election, individuals who have been nominated might not be serving on SGA by the time that the interview process for ATC representatives begins. Skelton settled the issue quickly.

“Basically, if you get nominated and not re-elected, we’ll need to replace you with one of the new members,” Skelton said.

Kappa Alpha representative Anders Gustafson ’08 and Senator Blake Poole ’08 self-nominated and Treasurer Chris Burks ’07 nominated Senator Brian Aoyama ’09, who was not present. Before the meeting's close, SGA Public Relations Chair Kate Sternstein ’09 called for help in writing and distributing the SGA Filibuster, the publication that periodically appears in bathroom stalls. SGA hopes to produce an issue every month.