THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 2006 15

Sanker and King achieve top finishes at Carolina

By MONICA JAMOUNEAU
Sports Editor

The past two weeks have been very successful for the men’s and women’s track and field teams, who competed in
the Carolina Fast Times outdoor track meet in Chapel Hill on April 15 and the Appalachian Open in Boone, N.C.
last weekend. The events were a good tune-up for the Southern Conference championships this coming Friday and Saturday in Statesboro,
Ga.

Caroline Sanker ’09 and Emily King ’09 brought in the top finishes for the Wildcats at the Carolina meet. Sanker
took first place in the 3K with her time of 10:35.20, while King was nipping at her heels to come
in second at 10:41.41. In the field, Kennesia Martin ’09 set a new school record in the triple jump, recording
36-9.0 (11.2 meters) in the event. She placed eighth with her jump, which toppled the record set in 1994. Finishing
seventh in the 1500 meters, Allie Martin ’06 also led the Wildcats with a time of 4:45.17. Lucy Rogers ’09
ended two spots behind Martin. Colleen McKown ’08 and Hilary Leister ’06 tied for ninth in the 800 meters, both
crossing the line in 2:21.25.

On the men’s side, Austin Mercandante ’06 was one of seven tracksters with top-10 finishes. The senior earned first place
in the steeplechase with a time of 10:03.18. It was the only time this season a member of the men’s
team finished at the top of an event.

Courtesy photo
The men’s track team boasted seven top-10 finishes in the Apr. 15 meet at Chapel Hill. Ryan Hubbard ’08 took
seventh in the 100-meter dash and 10th in the 200-meter dash. JinHan Justin Song ’09 came in just after Hubbard
in both events. Douglas Noreen ’07 also returned home with a top-10 finish, eight-tenths of a second off of first
place in the 800-meter.

Sam Hockey Playoffs: As if anyone cared.

Doesn't Suck
San Antonio Spurs: After demolishing the Sacramento Kings in Game 1 of their first-round series and after finishing 63-19, the
Spurs seem to be rolling straight towards another NBA Finals. Dallas, however, who also doesn’t suck, will test them in
the next round.

Sucks
“New ellipticals in the Union gym:” Reader Kelly A has expressed her dissatisfaction with the Union’s new equipment, saying “If
I wanted to run, I'd be on a treadmill.”

Doesn't Suck
Lebron James: All the phenom did in his first-ever playoff game was record a triple-double. His performance, of course, sent
the press into a frenzy of comparisons.

Doesn't Suck
The Garbage Plate: After their dramatic switch to chicken tenders over a month ago, Commons officials made another great call
when they introduced The Garbage Plate in the Grill Line. The Garbage Plate consists of one hotdog, one hamburger, french
fries, and macaroni salad, all smothered in chili.

For The Davidsonian’s final two issues, Sports will run the Sucks/Doesn’t Suck feature. Those who wish to share the boons
and banes of their existences with the “greater college community” should email pitrumbo@davidson.edu. If your comment is ridiculous and/or relevant
enough, pitrumbo (not his real name) will include it in the next week’s paper.

DUFF team readies for regional tourney

By MEGHAN CURTISS
Staff Writer

The Ultimate Frisbee team has reached new heights this year, with unprecedented success. Last year, the team was ranked ninth
in North Carolina. This year the team has broken into national rankings, even being placed in the top-25 teams at
one point. Recently, the team suffered a 14-12 loss to North Carolina State in the sectional finals. Despite the defeat,
their ranking in the tournament earned them a spot in the regional competition. The team will compete in the regional
competition on the weekend of April 29 and 30. If they place in the top two teams, they will qualify
for nationals.

Craig Stewart, a member of the team, said, “Success can be attributed to great teamwork, communication, and maximization of the
talent we have. It is truly amazing that Davidson can compete with big state schools with such a larger talent
pool to draw from.” Other members of the team have contributed the success of the team to the new members.
“I think this year’s team has been significantly better than previous years because we have a lot of dedicated and
enthusiastic freshmen,” said Liz Berndt ’07. “Frisbee is normally a laid-back sport, but this year we were able to combine
fun with hard work and setting goals for ourselves as a team. We were successful last year mainly due to
a large and experienced senior class. This year we have a younger team, but the [women] are so athletic.”that they
were able to contribute very early on. This allowed for us to be a much more cohesive unit, and this
phenomenal team dynamic is so strong that we’re willing to push our limits as a team so we can achieve
our goals.”

The team will compete in the regional tournament this weekend, and if successful will continue on to the national tournament.
Morris ’08, with a team-best time of 8:57.33 in the 3000-meter, finished second as well. In the field, Jim Walters
’07 had a good day, coming in fourth in the discus with his throw of 141’07”. Rounding out the top
competitors for the Wildcats, Will Funderburg ’09 placed eighth, sending the shot put 43’8.5”.

The men next competed in the Appalachian Open at Appalachian State this weekend, and like the Carolina Fast Times meet,
put forth a solid effort. Five members of the team placed fifth or better for the Wildcats at the meet.
Cisco Morales ’07 took second in the 400-meter, his time of 52.54 a personal best for the runner. Also securing
second place, David Ritchie ’07 crossed the line for the 400-meter hurdles in 53.87, his season-best time. Edmund Neyle ’09
secured fourth place in the same event with 1:06.30. Song was a force in Boone, taking sixth in the 200-meter
and ninth in the 100-meter dash. Also in the 200-meter, John Bialas finished eighth with a time of 23.15. Song,
Bialas, Hubbard, and Kwame Som-Pimpong ’09 then teamed up in the 4x100 relay to score fourth place. Their time of
42.55 was the second fastest in over 30 years. Walter had another solid meet in the discus event, placing third
with a throw of 139’. Funderburg was just shorter with a fifth place finish. Funderburg was not done, however, and
earned second in the shot put. The throw, at 44’1.50”, was a career-best for the Wildcat. Walter placed fourth in
the event.

While the rest of the campus is gearing up for Spring Frolics, the track and field teams will be headed
to Statesboro, Ga., to compete in the Southern Conference Championships. The meet will be on Friday and Saturday.

Golf finishes fifth in SoCon Tournament
By Suzie Eckel Staff Writer

The Davidson golf team finished out its season with a fifth-place showing at the Southern Conference Men’s Golf Championships at
The Links at Stone Ferry last Tuesday. Senior Tim Dillon led the Wildcats with a three-over par 219 over the
course of three days of play, and he finished tied for eighth in the tournament. After the first day of
play, Davidson sat in eighth place out of ten. “We didn’t play as well as we wanted to,” said Michael
Saari ’09. Freshman David Fowler had the team low of the day with a two-over 74 to put him in
the 15th spot individually. College of Charleston and Chattanooga led the pack each with one-under par at 287. Davidson shot
17 strokes over.

The Wildcats managed to move up two spots to take over the sixth place position after the second day of
play. Dillon caught up to teammate Fowler with his one-over 73, putting him at fifteenth overall. The Georgia Southern Eagles
leapt to the top of the ranks with a 289 on the day. The Eagles did not let go of
the lead, as on day three they finished first overall in the Southern Conference with a three-over 867, 12 strokes
ahead of second place College of Charleston. Davidson edged out Wofford by just one stroke to climb to a final
fifth place with a +26 overall score, five strokes behind fourth place Elon. Dillon, with one under par for the
day, jumped seven spots, and finished tied for eighth place overall. Junior Alex Knoll took the Wildcats’ low score of
the day with three birdies, putting him tied for thirteenth, and Fowler finished eighteenth overall. Wildcat Steve Mayo ’07 shot
even par on the day. “David [Fowler] really stepped up and played well in the tournament,” said Saari of his
teammate. Fowler was chosen by coach Tim Straub as Most Improved Player of the Year. “In the end, we finished
well. We improved each day.”

We have numerous businesses for sale in the greater Davidson College area, such as an upscale tanning salon, a coffee
shop, a franchise truck accessories store, and more. A perfect business for a Davidsonian, however, is a bookstore with the
following features:
-Well-established for over 13 years
-Large inventory of used books (over 40,000!)
-Increasing sales volume over the internet
-Large repeat customer base
-Some seller financing available

For more information call CFC, Inc. at 704-650-6630

All Davidson College cases, Ean Majors, and Alums wanting to get back to North Carolina!
