THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2006

Porn not the biggest issue

The majority of prominent feminist issues, like abortion, women in the military, or sexual harassment, have become more and more visible as they become more pressing matters in everyday life. However, there is one very notable exception. Pornography alone seems to have an inverse relationship when it comes to its presence in our everyday experience and the attention it receives as a matter of controversy.

In 2001, The Wall Street Journal’s Holman W. Jenkins Jr. ruefully wrote, “Porn has moved out of a few segregated public spaces, the seedy book shops and triple-X theaters, and become ubiquitous on the web, on cable, in neighborhood video shops.” But is this really something to lament?

The most common and compelling feminist objection to pornography is that it degrades women. I don’t think there is really any getting around this. Most pornography does treat women as mere means to an end, and if porn’s camp aspect were excised, I suspect it would be far less enjoyable for virtually all its consumers. In other words, when men click on a link online, they don’t want to hear the life stories of the women they’re being linked to.

Writing for Salon.com, Christine Smallwood thinks the problem is even worse: “For instead of celebrating the diversity not only of shapes, but of desires, Playboy and its kin have commodified female sexuality into a series of recognizable poses that have been reproduced and repeated until they are now the very definition, the only definition, of sexiness.”

When the government is called in to save the day, an illiberal emphasis on “dangerous ideas” emerges. This accusation seems fair when the finger is pointed at Playboy, but to whom is Smallwood referring when invoking the magazine’s kin? Maxim, FHM, and similar men’s magazines? Or pornography of every conceivable medium?

With more than one out of every ten websites on the Internet devoted to pornography, the World Wide Web seems to have gone in exactly the opposite direction as the magazines in the supermarket checkout line: While the latter’s fare is fairly stock, the former caters to a seemingly endless stream of motley tastes.

It is probably true that there is a certain cookie-cutter aspect to most Hollywood and television portrayals of female sexuality, but it is hard to imagine how it could be otherwise. One trait of mass culture is that it is, well, a mass culture. Portrayals of what’s attractive will be tailored to appeal to the greatest possible number of consumers. If Playboy-style figures and poses get the best reception, who deserves a greater share of the blame: the people marketing the predictable come-hither looks or the people who demand them?

One problem with feminist critiques of pornography is that the suggested responses to the industry tend to either appeal to government censorship or a shake-your-finger-at-everyone broadness. When the government is called in to save the day, an illiberal emphasis on “dangerous ideas” emerges that downplays the ability of intelligent people to examine controversial material with a critical perspective. And when opponents of porn blame its consumers, producers, and participants with equal parts contempt and disgust, they take a roundhouse swing at a swath of people so great that any chance of healthy change will be hindered by the animosity the critique has earned.

To be sure, I don’t have the answers either. But at a time when women are more respected, more free, and more successful than at any other time in American history, pornography seems like a trivial affair.

Ashish George '07 is a philosophy major from Greensboro, N.C. Contact him at asgeorge@davidson.edu

The issue of race has been in the news at Davidson quite a bit. In the first Davidsonian of the semester, poll results showed that students perceive the Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity, the Black Student Coalition, and the Kappa Alpha fraternity as the most discriminatory organizations on campus. A week later, President Vagt approved the latest student request to invite a historically black sorority to campus. The following week, Alpha Phi Alpha president Brendan Watkins wrote to the Davidsonian in defense of his fraternity and in frustration at the ignorance and hypocrisy of Davidson students.

In this column, I had planned to criticize President Vagt’s decision to invite a historically black sorority to campus. I considered accepting a sorority primarily for black women while rejecting the same opportunity for white women a double standard. I saw the same reverse discrimination, not in the policies but in the reality of the Black Student Coalition and the Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity.

STEPHEN KALIN

Rather than rectifying one prejudice by introducing another, we as a society should work to eliminate the initial source of discrimination. However, Watkins’ column reminded me how marginalized many ethnic minorities must feel at Davidson. The college’s admissions policy is to not discriminate against applicants based on race, ethnicity, or creed, yet a majority of students here are white Christians of European descent. Members of the racial and religious majority, myself included, tend not to identify themselves primarily as white or Christian. However, I believe that minorities of all kinds tend to focus disproportionately on those characteristics that make them a minority.

From a sociological perspective, people seek acceptance from their peers and become hypersensitive to any characteristics that set them apart from the group. Organizations like the Black Student Coalition and Alpha Phi Alpha provide non-whites with an opportunity to celebrate their distinct cultures and heritages. They also allow the entire campus to learn about and celebrateother traditions. While this may seem self-exclusionary and segregationist to some, there is a more important issue to be addressed: why are non-whites so significantly underrepresented in higher education? This topic cannot be handled adequately by college admissions officers and affirmative action alone. Rather, the income disparity between whites and non-whites in America must be remedied and the nationwide education policy that allows rich communities to neglect the education of their poorer neighbors must be revised. The radical disparity between the non-white population and non-white college graduates is both a result and a cause of social stratification in this country. Rather than rectifying one prejudice by introducing another, we as a society should work to eliminate the initial source of discrimination. We can most effectively integrate the Davidson campus by embracing open-mindedness and communication. Members of any majority on campus ought to be sensitive to the precarious situation of minorities and act on their curiosity or confusion by asking questions, attending meetings and getting involved in the numerous events sponsored by the minority organizations on campus. Minority students should know that many people’s perceptions of organizations like the Black Student Coalition and Alpha Phi Alpha stem not from hate but rather from worry that such institutions only build up walls between already stratified groups on campus. There need to be outlets for all kinds of minority students to embrace their diversity and be in the majority somewhere, but the line between that and separation is a thin one. I hope I speak for all students when I say that I want both minority and majority students in the classroom, in my Patterson Court organization, on my hall and in my extracurricular activities. 

Stephen Kalin ’09 is from Tappan, N.Y. Contact him at stkalin@davidson.edu

Between a rock and a hard place

In a video clip I recently saw of comedian Lewis Black, he ranted about Republicans and Democrats. He said that Democrats were the party of “no ideas” and Republicans the party of “bad ideas.” He went on to explain our two-party system: “a Republican stands up in Congress and goes ‘I’ve got a really bad idea!’ and the Democrat says, ‘And I can make it worse!’” (only he didn’t say worse). The audience of middle-aged adults loved it. A couple of years ago, probably not more than two or three years ago, even, I wouldn’t have enjoyed the joke nearly as much. But today, I love it. I used to be a diehard Republican. If people joked about Republicans or their policies, I would be right there to answer the joke with a serious argument about policy. Needless to say, this was not the most humorous or friendship-building way of dealing with a political joke. But that was me. I was a Republican, politically minded, and I thought all the conversations, all the arguments, all the jibes and jokes were part of a great debate between two sides: the Republicans and the Democrats. That part of me is not all gone, but more and more these days, I’ve felt older and less enthusiastic. Let me explain. Most adults I’ve known in my life were, and still are, very cynical about politics and politicians. If politics were brought up, either the adults would be quick to cast it aside as being unimportant, or they would say there was nothing they could do about it. Most of the time they would blame politicians for what went wrong, not Democrats or Republicans, just politicians. I’ve started to feel like that more and more. Look at the current situation. I mean, don’t get me wrong, I still dislike the Democratic Party. I mean, they’re starting to vote against free trade. And really, why are they against it? I can think of only two reasons: labor votes and union pressure. If that is why they are going against free trade, God help us if they ever get control of Congress. Apart from free trade, there is also talk of impeaching Bush if they win back the legislative branch. But the Republicans, my Republicans, have really let me down. For years, you would hear Republican talk of lowering discretionary spending or reforming government. They spoke of making it leaner, making it work better. They followed in the footsteps of Reagan and his words. And what have they done? Well, they’ve been spending, and spending and spending. And sure, there’s a lot to spend on, a war in Iraq, fighting terrorism at home and abroad; but maybe they should never have put those $500 million Alaskan bridges in the budget. But it’s more than just money. There’s also stem cell research and abortion. Stem cell research shows great potential, and who really thinks abortion will be going away any time soon? Republicans also seem to be positioning themselves closer and closer to religion. And I don’t know, it just seems unsettling to me. So that’s where I am now. I am no longer a Republican, but something else. Because Republicans are spending like there is no tomorrow and at the same time lowering taxes (can’t we spend less so that we actually can lower taxes?) and because they’re stymieing research and connecting themselves with religion, I’m not really a Republican anymore. Nevertheless, because Democrats are attacking free trade, I am not a Democrat either. For all of these reasons I now call myself a conservative. Politicians on both sides of the aisle have frustrated me too many times. The Republicans spend, and the Democrats fight against logic. I’m a little more cynical and feel a little bit older. Lewis Black is right.

Matt Hall ’06 is a history major from Bennington, Vt. Contact him at mthall@davidson.edu