2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Duke, from page 1

The town homes will serve as non-senior housing according to lottery number, which will give underclassmen rooming options beyond the
standard single and double room. Although the town home construction demands a tight deadline, the Residence Life Office (RLO) said
they will be complete. “We are all expressing great confidence that building will be done,” Director of Residence Life Leslie
Marsicano said.

The Main Street Town Homes will house a total of 32 students in eight two-story units. In each unit, four
students will share two double rooms and a bathroom on the second floor of the home. The first floor will
consist of a kitchen with a dishwasher, living room, dining room, second bathroom, and porch. The administration is still discussing
the potential for laundry facilities in the town homes.

“I’m an advocate of off-campus living. I think it provides an opportunity to improve college-town relations.” --Brad Demeter ‘07

Eight college-owned houses located on North Thompson Street, Concord Road, and Lorimer Road will also be used to their maximum
potential. Students can now cluster with their friends, whereas previously, most students at the end of the lottery, such as
those returning from study abroad, would find themselves individually paired with other students. While the majority of off-campus housing is
close to the school, students have conflicting views regarding off-campus living.

“Some people don’t have cars,” Nikki Linn ’07 said. “It’s inconvenient, and it separates them from the Davidson community. I
think it’s a great opportunity if you want to live off campus, but it shouldn’t be made a requirement.”

Others support the off-campus option. “I’m an advocate of off-campus living,” Brad Demeter ’07 said. “I think it provides an
opportunity to improve college-town relationships.”

Plans for new town homes located on the corner of Main Street and Ridge Road.

NEWS

Following the renovations, Duke will not only include additional student rooms, but will also house the Dean Rusk International Studies
center. Sixty-three students currently live in Duke, but once it is renovated, 100 students will live in the building. Two
large wings will be added to each side of Duke, creating a shape similar to Belk Residence Hall. The right
wing will be reserved for Dean Rusk; the left wing will consist of rooms in the form of suites—two doubles
comparable in size to Cannon rooms will share one bathroom. Because the site of the building extension is on a
hill, the wings will have basement floors capable of housing 12 beds and, like Sentelle, will be accessible by one
entrance. The wings will extend to the street in back of the building, creating a courtyard in the middle of
Duke overlooked by a terrace on the third floor. The terrace can be used for studying and for activities like
small concerts. Two smaller terraces will be built onto the front of each wing facing the library.

Marsicano is excited about the terraces. “I am already planning a band on the large terrace for the grand opening
party,” Marsicano said.

Duke will also have a kitchen for student use and a lounge, both located towards the front of the building.
The Dean Rusk center will have its own additional kitchen and lounge.

With so much building taking place in a condensed time frame, the college wants students to take an active role
in making long-term decisions regarding the new housing. Several furniture vendors will be present on the day of lottery doubles
sign-up to display a variety of possible furniture options for Duke and the town homes. RLO asks that students give
feedback regarding which furniture they prefer. RLO will conduct Lottery 101: “A Guide to Getting a Room” to explain the
changes in the lottery process on February 16 at 7 p.m. in Tomlinson Conference Room. Lottery numbers will be available
on February 20. Interior and exterior views of the town homes and off-campus houses can be found on the updated
lottery website.

LAW FIRM

We Are Proud To Be Your Neighborhood Law Firm

Concentrating in Personal Injury

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School
Best Lawyers in America ‘84—'06
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals
Adjunct professor of trial advocacy
Duke Law School
UNC Law School

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. University of Richmond
Commissioner for the Town of Davidson 83-85; 88'-'97
Town of Davidson Commercial and North End Corridor Plan ‘05
Mecklenburg County Real Estate Executive Council ‘03 to present.

Other Areas of Practice
Appeals, Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning, Litigation, Real Estate, Wills & TrustsIn the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg
Street, Suite 203 Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699 (Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2006

Bradberry steps down as VP of College Relations
By SARAH BALEY
Staff Writer

Vice President for College Relations Kristin Hills Bradberry ’85 stepped down in December after more than 10 years at Davidson.
A search committee is currently working to fill Bradberry’s vacancy. Bradberry’s decision to leave Davidson was motivated by her desire
to spend more time with her family.

“Davidson is very family friendly, and [President Bobby Vagt] was the best boss I can imagine in terms of understanding
what’s important in life, but the combination of the level of responsibility, the commute (I live in Charlotte) and the
notion that it was a good time to leave all came together to make me realize it was time for
a change,” Bradberry said in an email.

As Vice President for College Relations, Bradberry led a 65-person staff in handling alumni programming, communications, and creating opportunities to
volunteer and invest in Davidson. Bradberry also collaborated with the president, other vice presidents, and the Board of Trustees. Her
most recent contribution to Davidson was her management of the Let Learning Be Cherished campaign, raising $272 million and involving
more than 34,000 donors. Campaign money was spent on the John Montgomery Belk Scholars Program, the Chambers renovations, the Knobloch
Campus Center, the Alvarez College Union, and Tomlinson Residence Hall.

Director of Development Eileen Keeley said Bradberry’s contributions extended beyond her tangible accomplishments. In 2002, Bradberry led an office-wide retreat.
“She was a great manager. She led us through a retreat a couple of years ago where we came up
with working agreements — really basic things. She [had] everyone who [worked] at Davidson College review [the list of agreements],
sign [it], return it to her, and then post a copy in their office,” Keeley said.

Bradberry is currently working for the Arts and Science Council in Charlotte. “My new job is to raise funds to
support exciting new cultural facilities, including a new 1,200-seat theater, a new modern art museum, a new facility for the
Afro-American Cultural Center, and a new and expanded Mint Museum,” Bradberry said.

Kristin Hills Bradberry with Dr. Holmes Rolston ‘53.

The search committee stopped accepting applications on January 20. Director of Athletics Jim Murphy, Professor of Psychology Kristi Multhaup, Professor
of Physics Dan Boye, Director of Residence Life and Associate Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano, Senior Associate Dean of Admission
and Financial Aid Kathleen Stevenson, and Director of Human Resources Carl Sorensen have narrowed down the list of applicants to
individuals who will be invited to campus for interviews. After these initial interviews, the committee will narrow down the list
again and will invite the remaining applicants to campus for more extensive, full-day interviews. The committee will then make a
recommendation to Vagt, who will then make a recommendation to the Trustees.

“It’s our goal to fill this position by the end of March at the very latest,” Sorensen said.

Bradberry appreciates Vagt’s involvement in the selection process. “In deciding to leave Davidson, one of the things that was most
important to me was that Bobby Vagt be in charge of picking my successor. I trust him to pick the
right person to take my place,” Bradberry said.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

2/4/06 Patterson Court Disturbance
Officers responded to a request for police assistance at SAE. The two Risk Managers said they had tried to break
up a fight between two students outside the SAE house. One of the students claimed the Risk Managers “got up
in his face” and tried to pick a fight. The officers separated the two parties and took them to the
Campus Police Office to take down their statements.

2/3/06 Richardson Dormitory Suspicious Person
A student reported that a suspicious person had been loitering near Richardson Dormitory. The suspect was a 6’6” black male
wearing a black hooded sweatshirt and jeans. Reporting officers circled the area, but the suspect was not located.

2/3/06 Sentelle Dormitory Vice Complaint
An officer arrived in Sentelle in reference to a call of possible drug use. The officer noticed the odor of
marijuana emanating from a room. All students in the room admitted to smoking marijuana in the room. The students turned
in two pill bottles containing a small amount of marijuana, four pipes, and a small bong. A search of the
room did not reveal any additional drugs or drug-related items.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety
