12 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 2006

For You Sports Fans - TRUMBO’S PICKS OF THE WEEK

Baseball vs. Duke
Wednesday 7 p.m.

Baseball is one of only two sports still running (the other is track) and the only sport with home games remaining. In effect, then, this game against Duke and the game next Tuesday against Gardner-Webb will be the last two chances to see Wildcats play at home.

International auto maker breaks into NASCAR

NASCAR is known, possibly more than any other sport, for its unapologetically traditional roots in the United States. It is truly American, like baseball, hot dogs, and apple pie. It’s spreading far and wide over the country, with tracks now in New England and California. The Star-Spangled Banner is sung before each race while fans remove their caps respectfully. Red, white, and blue flags litter the infield. Even the cars racing at breakneck speeds down straightaways and around banked turns are American makes: Ford Taurus, Dodge Intrepid, Chevy Monte Carlo. And, hold on a second: Toyota Camry???

That’s right. Beginning in 2007, the Japanese automaker will sport teams in both the Cup and Busch Series. The change was announced in January, and Brian France, chairman and CEO of NASCAR, said of the decision, “This move provides for even more intense competition on the track between drivers and manufacturers, which will provide more excitement and fan interest. Toyota’s entry also provides more options for drivers and teams, which will increase the competition between manufacturers.”

Toyota has been involved in racing for over 20 years, winning championships in IMSA, CART, Indy, and various off-road events. It has been a part of open-wheel competitions since 1996, although this year will be the last in the IRL for the company, which plans to focus on NASCAR for the foreseeable future. This is not the company’s first jaunt in NASCAR, however; Celicas were introduced to the Goody’s Dash Series in 2000. Robert Huffman was the first person to win a NASCAR event driving a Toyota, taking the Goody’s Dash title at Kentucky Speedway in 2003. Tundras, the brand’s small pickups, have been running in the Craftsman Truck Series since 2004, making Toyota the first new make to enter NASCAR in over 50 years. The last foreign model to be entered in NASCAR’s history was the Jaguar, which raced only a few times in the 1950s. The foreign trucks have since won 13 races and 18 poles, with Travis Kvapil emerging as their top contender.

Next year, 2007, will also be momentous for Toyota as it will celebrate its 50th year being sold in the U.S. There has been a lot of talk about who will be driving the new cars. Bill Davis and Michael Waltrip have both committed to fielding two cars each in next season’s action, which will begin with the hallowed Daytona 500. Waltrip announced the formation of Michael Waltrip Racing in January, but he was quick to tell reporters that his two cars will still be sponsored by NAPA, the chief sponsor for his former No. 15 and his current No. 55. He has already begun planning the building of his team’s headquarters in Cornelius, just a few miles down the road from Davidson. Waltrip will drive one of his own cars, while it is expected that Dave Blaney will pilot the other. No drivers were announced for Bill Davis, but Caterpillar has revealed that it will still be sponsoring BDR. Because there has been some controversy surrounding trades involving Kurt Busch and Jamie McMurray last year, Toyota has decided to remain close-mouthed about its plans.Interest in any other drivers. Robby Gordon, who some speculated would move earlier in the negotiations, will probably stay with Dale Earnhardt Inc. for now. No information has been released so far about the Busch Series. But will Toyota, with relatively unspectacular names in their teams, be a real contender? Not immediately, but as one commentator on NASCAR.com points out, “In a few years Toyota could set the proverbial bar. They’ll throw a ton of money at the biggest name team and drivers.” Others have been more critical of the foreign automaker’s chances. Greg Biffle for one has expressed his doubts, saying, “They don’t stand a chance... This is a tough business, and it is going to be difficult.” The situation is similar to when Dodge once again became part of the field in 2001; the teams started slow, and only in recent years have they become truly consistent. Until the start of the 2007 season, no one will really know if that great American institution, the National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing, will accept or reject the foreign manufacturer, or if Toyota can succeed in the aggressive sport.

Davidson announces year-end awards

Wildcat athletes from all sports got spiffy for dinner and an award ceremony on Monday evening to honor a year of hard work. The awards were as follows:

Thomas A. Sparrow Award
Jay Heafner ’06 (Baseball)

Susan K. Roberts Award
Missy Gilbert ’06 (Lacrosse)

Helen DeVane Carnegie Award
Lance Harden ’09 (Cross Country)

Wrestling
Most Courageous: Jimmy Colavita ’09
Coach’s Award: Drew Carey ’06
Charlie Parker MVP: Patrick Coman ’06

Volleyball
Most Improved: Kittery Neale ’09
Most Inspirational: Erin Balak ’06
MVP: Liz Williamson ’07

Men’s Tennis
Harry Fogleman Coach’s Award: Joe Cheaney ’06
Dr. Mike Derian Attitude Award: Amir Vaez ’07 and Thomas Runge ’06
Rob Palmer MVP: Flaviu Simihaian ’08

Women’s Tennis
Coach’s Award: Lindsey Powel ’06 and Betsey Haywood ’06
The Vinson Award: Meredith Skeeters
MVP: Kelsey Linville

Men’s Swimming & Diving
Billy Ray High Point Award: Will Broughton ’08
Unsung Hero: Jamie Hopkins ’07
Most Improved: Andrew Edelman ’07
Dick Redding Most Valuable Athlete: Brad Poole ’06

Women’s Swimming & Diving
Billy Ray High Point Award: Megan Hollar ’06
Unsung Hero: Kristen Shields ’06 and Ellie Trefzger ’07
Most Improved: Ivey McAliley ’08
Pat Miller MVP: Megan Hollar ’06

Men’s Soccer
Coach’s Award: Preston Davis ’06
Co-MVP: Jon Latting ’06
Co-MVP: Matt Allen ’06

Women’s Soccer
Most Improved: Tiffany Mumby ’09
Most Promising: Tracy McCausland ’09
Class of 1986 Award: Cady Blackey ’06
MVP: Kara Koehrn ’06

Lacrosse
Wildcat Award: Abby Mead ’06
Hustle Award: Missy Gilbert ’06
MVP: Leslie Smith ’06

Golf
Most Improved: David Fowler ’09
Ben Vernon MVP: Tim Dillon ’06

Football
Offensive MVP: Ryan Alexander ’08
Defensive MVP: Alex Arinsmier ’06

Field Hockey
Student-Athlete Leader: Shari Barnett ’07
Rookie of the Year: Britti Himelfarb ’09
Most Improved: Kelly Fernandez ’06
MVP: Molly Blackman ’09

Men’s Cross Country
Most Improved: Alex Hoyt ’09
Fred Borch Award: Sam Morris ’08
High Point Award: Jonathan Baker ’06
Most Valuable Runner: Jonathan Baker ’06

Women’s Track & Field
Coach’s Award: Hilary Leister ’06

Women’s Cross Country
John F. Patterson Most Improved: Allie Martin ’06
Coach’s Award: Annie O’Donnell ’08
High Point Most Valuable Runner: Brenna Burns ’08

Men’s Basketball
Wildcat Defensive/Rebounding: Thomas Sander ’08
D.G. Martin Hustle Award: Matt McKillop ’06
John M. Belk MVP: Brendan Winters ’06

Women’s Basketball
110% Award: Tia Washington ’07
Coach’s Award: Brynn Kelly ’07
MVP: Jessica Mitchell ’07

*Baseball and Men’s and Women’s Track and Field Awards TBA after the season

*Award list taken from Athletics website

Write for Sports. Email mojamouneau or pitrumbo.