_ THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY March 15, 2006

Talking rock with The Walkmen
By PRESTON Davis
Staff Writer

The Walkmen, a New York-based band known for its unique brand of rock, took the stage in the Duke Family Performance Hall last Friday night. Despite lead singer Hamilton Leithauser’s few awkward moments with a faulty microphone, which caused some people to leave before the set’s end, the hour-long concert went smoothly. The Walkmen, for the most part, delighted those in attendance. The group played a diverse set of songs from all three of their albums, including the new “A Hundred Miles Off,” which comes out May 23.

There were several notable aspects of the concert. One was the band’s use of a piano that seemed about the right size for a well-trained monkey. While there was no monkey to be found, the piano made for an intriguing sound. Drummer Matt Barrick kept the music engaging with his charismatic yet spastic style. Leithauser, defined by his blond, statuesque presence and his Bono-like vocals, was the group’s centerpiece. By adding in some inexplicable guitar playing, the band created a brilliantly bizarre musical calamity that seemed to pour out of their instruments.

While it was easy to appreciate their distinctive sound, microphone malfunctions, heavy feedback from the amplifiers, and the sometimes overly strange quality of the music were some of the concert’s low points. The band’s instrumental command was strong, and by the set’s end, I finally appreciated their break from the ordinary. Responding to the applause of committed students who stayed until the concert’s end, The Walkmen retook the stage for a more than adequate encore. They played some crowd favorites like “The Rat,” as well as more songs from “A Hundred Miles Off,” which they described as a little bit softer in sound than their last two albums.

Even though I cannot recall many instances where I really felt “into” the show, The Walkmen, as well as their night in Duke, might be appropriately summed up as unique but misunderstood. I was fortunate enough to get a post-concert interview with the band members. The Walkmen, who do not typically tour for long periods, arrived in Davidson to accommodations that Leithauser said have been their best yet. The band’s lead singer, who stated that The Walkmen’s ideal audience is simply a crowd who enjoys their music, claimed they were happy to have a crowd that came out and took pleasure in the show. While I apologized for what I felt was poor attendance, Leithauser apologized for being unable to answer my questions with more detail. It was still entertaining, even if it just made for a break from the usual.

Students on the RUF trip to Mississippi catch some rays while building a house.

Students from Moscow enjoying their stay
By SARAH ROBINSON
Arts and Living Editor Emeritus

Three students from the Moscow State Institute of International Relations are currently at Davidson, participating in a five-week exchange program established in 2003. This summer, 10 Davidson students will take part in the exchange by going to Moscow for six weeks. Ella Usacheva, Valeriya Slezko, and Nikolai Merkulov, who are all currently living in off-campus housing, candidly discussed their first impressions of life on campus and in a different country. This is the first visit to the United States for all three, who hope to gain a better understanding of the country’s dialogue, educational system, and college life during their stay.stay. Usacheva has already learned something about the last aspect, due to the weight of her current class workload. “I had never before understood why people in the USA are so keen on the weekend,” she said. The three are gradually learning how to keep a steady course of studying, due to having classes that require regular reading and homework. The warm weather has brought them some extra enjoyment, especially since Moscow is still covered in snow. The American educational system, however, has presented some challenges. In Russia, professors often intimidate students and control their study habits. The faculties at Russian universities often expect students to corroborate, even on tests, in order to reach the high standards set by professors.

“I had never before understood why people in the USA are so keen on the weekend.” --Ella Usacheva

The visiting students have all noticed the ability of American students to work well on their own. They were also impressed by the willingness of Davidson professors to hold open classroom discussions, since Russian universities often feature a lecture and seminar system that allows for little student input. While at Davidson, Usacheva, Slezko, and Merkulov are taking a course taught by Jack Perry, a director emeritus of the Dean Rusk International Studies Program. The course is a series of lectures exploring American culture and business. Each student is also auditing two courses, which vary from Western European Politics to French Cinema.

The Russian students have spent their spare time doing homework and familiarizing themselves with the town and campus. Usacheva named the Alvarez College Union as one of her favorite places, because “it provides much of what students need on a daily basis.” Merkulov enjoys the green chairs around campus, which allowed him to bask in the warm weather of the past week.

All three students named traffic and smiling faces as the largest differences they have witnessed between Russia and the United States. Drivers in Moscow feel that they have the right of way, even occasionally going up onto sidewalks to find parking. Slezko feels that the general speed of life in the United States is much slower. “Cars actually stop for pedestrians when they wish to cross the street and there is even a separate path for bicycles,” she said.

The living atmosphere in the United States also presents differences for the students. Apartments in Russia usually have large metal doors that help keep out thieves and the cold, while doors at Davidson often remain open due to the trusting campus environment. The Russian students feel that students here are very open about their lives as well, except in one respect. “In Moscow, if someone asks you ‘how are you doing,’ the answer would be ‘terrible,’ and then we will tell you all about our problems,” said Slezko. The Russian students said they feel it is strange that many people in the United States frequently answer that they are ‘fine’ or ‘great,’ even when they are not.

All three students, despite any differences they have seen between Moscow and Davidson, have come to feel welcome on campus. Amy Holthouser, the program coordinator, even took Slezko shopping after the airline lost her luggage to ensure that she had what she needed. Luckily, her luggage was found the next day. All three have been grateful for the work Holthouser put into making preparations for their visit. They have also appreciated the warm welcome provided by President Bobby Vagt, Perry, their professors, and students. If the weather stays sunny, the rest of their stay should be just as enjoyable.