Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SSA EA

Cheerleader kicked off squad for excessive use of ‘jazz hands’ SEE PAGE 3

Student pass/fails alcohol.edu See Page 5

German dept. invades French department, surrender ensues See Page 8

Famous rapper crucified in Judea See Page 10

RL-Y0! newsletter to promote RLO’s hip new image See Page 12

Hummus not recognized as legitimate sandwich condiment by Israeli student See Page 14

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Steelers: Bobby Kenner and Jeff Yeakel

Seahawks: Nathan Bradshaw, Brent McCormick, Mac Wilkie, Preston Davis

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editors at bokenner@davidson.edu or jeyeakel@davidson.edu.

Note: The Yowl is the humor section of the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

UBI ORTA U:BER. TAS

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2006

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

Your Ad Here

February 8, 2005

The Davidsonian

RSC exposed as Rural Shakespeare Company

After a thorough investigation by CCRL and SGA senators, a committee of students has accused the college administration of duping
the student body. The students claim that instead of bringing in the Royal Shakespeare Company to campus, the administration hired
a different RSC: the Rural Shakespeare Company of Jackson, Mississippi.

The Rural Shakespeare Company, who also performed Two Gentlemen of Verona and Caesar last year, was exposed during their teaching
residency this semester. Jennifer Reed ’08 was one of the students who blew the whistle on the imposters. “I began
to suspect something was fishy when I saw one of the actors who claimed he was going outside to smoke
a ‘fag’ instead put on a straw hat and sit down in a rocking chair with a pipe,” said Reed.
“A few days later, one of the actresses invited me to go out to a bar with her. She offered
to drive, but instead of riding in a Mini-Cooper or a SmartCar, we hopped in a rusty pickup truck with
one flat tire and a deer carcass in the bed.”

“We crossed the South Carolina border to visit a bar called the General Lee,” said Reed. “It had neon Confederate
flags on the walls, and there were a ton of those video poker machines. I thought maybe she just wanted
to get a taste of southern culture, but when she took a break from drinking to polish her shotgun, I
realized something was wrong.”

“Another time, one of the actors complimented us on how great our British accents were, and asked if we wouldn’t
mind speaking in them all along,” said Willerby. “We figured it’d be mighty good practice for us actors and such.”

While most students were surprised and disappointed by the announcement of the fraud, others suspected the deception as soon as
the “RSC” first arrived. “I started getting suspicious when the college greeted the RSC with a line dancing reception in
Chambers Gallery and a pig-picking outside the Alvarez Union for dinner,” said Trey Moore ’07. “One of the opening workshops
was entitled ‘The Bard in the Barn: Reading Shakespeare at the Seminoles’ Halftime’,” said Jeremy Skye ’06. “I thought it
was kind of an odd subject for a British company, especially when the scripts they were reading from claimed Romeo
and Juliet were brother and sister.”

---

This cleaned text maintains the original structure, punctuation, and meaning of the provided OCR text.The RSC residency, such as this
one, tipped off suspicious students. The company admitted last week that they were not, in fact, British, but were faking
their accents all along. RSC Representative Peggy Sue Willerby said it was the college’s idea to pretend to be English.
“Mr. Union Board director said and sister.” Members of the Rural Shakespeare Company seem to be relieved that they’ve finally
been exposed. “Now we can finally get some respect from these college folk ‘stead of dem thinkin’ it was dem
Brit folk,” said RSC actor Cletus Dawes. “Plus, we was havin’ trouble making Edith and Clancy fit the meter in
the ‘Measure for Measure’ scene.”

English professor admits he deserved award

Much to the delight of the Miliken with the Leo Kosmonov Fiction Award. He took the picture himself with a
camera timer. Davidson College community, James P. Godwin Professor of English Jerry Miliken has recently been awarded the prestigious Leo
Kosmonov Fiction Award, given annually for a collection of full-length short fiction stories. Miliken’s collection, “Shark Sandwich: Tales From a
Seafood Apocalypse,” has received rave reviews, beating out over 700 other collections to be named this year’s winner. Miliken’s work,
delving into the transcendental minds and migratory nature of sharks as indicative of the fate of modern society, will be
published this coming year. The award will bring him an advance on a new series of fiction, tentatively titled “Led
Zeppelin III.”

“Jerry Miliken is extremely proud of himself, and God sure knows he should be,” said Miliken of the success of
his work. “Jerry Miliken has been praising himself for years, and now people have recognized his total awesomeness and humility.
This award is merely a sacrificial offering to the deity that is Jerry Miliken.” While he admits that it is
quite the honor, he isn’t letting it get to his head. “Jerry Miliken loves to teach almost as much as
he loves to write,” Miliken said of himself. “It was only natural that Jerry Miliken wanted to give back to
his most promising students.”

As a result, Miliken will be using his newfound celebrity and wealth to create the Miliken Award, an award given
annually to a student deemed the most Miliken-esque by showing both promise and total awesomeness. “Obviously, the winner won't be
the real deal, but he is as close to Miliken-level as any mere mortal can, and I can recognize that
awesomeness potential,” Miliken said. He added that he cannot be killed by conventional weapons. Until the award winner is announced,
Miliken just hopes to focus on his fiction. “The question for Jerry Miliken now is, ‘can he get any better?’
For most people, the answer is no. I believe that for Jerry Miliken, that answer is yes,” Miliken said.

2006-07 Student Elections

This year’s SGA and Union Board election campaigns reached new heights not only in quantity of flyers posted, but also
in creativity. Here’s a look at some of the most notable posters from this year’s campaign trails:

COLLEGE
Aer for Re
Candidates who he tha seoet Mere
Time to make new friends
Learning is a fun way to meet people
Vote Amy Beck
Leena bred ay 9nptwe you wae He
Don’t let ogre attacks happen to you
