12 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2006

The Week Ahead

For you Sports fans...

TRUMBO’S PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat Game of the Week
Saturday 1:00 p.m.
Men’s Basketball vs. Western Carolina

After two solid wins against Elon and Princeton, the ’Cats will take on the Catamounts on Saturday afternoon in hopes of earning their 20th consecutive victory at home. Western Carolina has lost three of five, but has just beaten Furman, who beat the ’Cats on Jan. 14th.

Outside the Den

The Super Bowl
Seattle vs. Pittsburgh
Sunday, 6:00 p.m. on ABC

Anyone with a cerebral cortex knows this is the one to watch. In what is probably the most anticipated game of the year, Pittsburgh is a safe bet for the Super Bowl. After seven wins in seven weeks and a long break to rest up and organize, the Pittsburgh Steelers are ready to get into major conflict with the Seattle Seahawks. But since their last Super Bowl title in 1980 and an unsuccessful attempt in ’96, the Steelers haven’t done a whole lot. Nevertheless, Motor City is gearing up to host the greatest game on earth, and it’s picked the Steelers as its team. The mayor of Detroit has been trying, I’m not sure how successfully, to get this week named “Jerome Bettis Week” in the city, which is hometown to the receiver. The Bus, formerly of the Fighting Irish, is going home to play in what might possibly be his last game. He even wore a Lions jersey to his last press conference. Now it’s up to the Seahawks to make it a fair fight—they will be visitors in a land less than five hours from Pittsburgh, and there ain’t much difference between steel mills and automobile factories to the hard-working town of Detroit.

Let it be known: I am from Pennsylvania, so despite my tendency to back the Eagles come rain, snow, and sleet, I’ll be joining my PA compadres in rooting for the Steelers come Sunday. And I never thought I’d say it, but I wish I were in Detroit. As it is, I’ll watch the game from the comfort of my dorm’s lounge and laugh as the money my brother bet online disappears faster than you can say “50-to-one.” For those of you inexperienced in the wild and addictive world of online betting, don’t start now. There are too many sites, too many “sure” bets, and not enough cash to cover it all. But, if you want to, there are some pretty fun wagers.

Sideline From the By Monica Jamouneau

The first stage of betting involves your simple points spread. Who’s going to win? What’s the final score? Care to put your money where your mouth is? Normally, this type of low-stake wagering is the forte of weekly lottery-ticket buyers or those taking their first baby-step toward a severe gambling problem. If you lose, there goes an extra burger from the dollar menu. If you win, you get money and bragging rights. After that, though, you better know what you’re talking about. For instance, you can pick Matt Hasselbeck for over/under 235 passing yards. With Ben Roethlisberger, it’s 222.5 yards. You can wager on quarterbacks, receivers, offense, defense, special teams; the sky is the limit. Who will the MVP be: Shaun Alexander at seven/two odds or Bettis at five/one? Who will score the first touchdown or make the first interception? If you have 10 dollars (or more, or less) then you can lay it down on any Steeler or Seahawk who suits your fancy. Other categories include amount of precipitation during the game, temperature, and even type or duration of celebratory touchdown dances. Those are for the serious, or seriously addicted, better. The coin toss bet is my favorite; it’s also the most pointless in the grand scheme of things. Heads or tails, talent is not measured by chance, although unfortunate injuries can sure mess up a team’s rhythm. And yes, it’s terrible, but you can even put money on who gets hurt and what bone gets broken or muscle gets torn. Luck, in fact, has already given the Seahawks a hard time. Pulling into their hotel, the van carrying Seattle players, including Hasselbeck and Alexander, was struck by an electronic security gate and crushed. No one was hurt, but it’s as sure as a sign from the heavens that the Seahawks will have problems this weekend.All said and done, I’ll take the Steelers over the Seahawks, 27-24. The boys of Steel City will be wearing their white road jerseys rather than the standard gold and black, though Detroit is as close to home as they’re likely to get. It’s going to be a good game, but the more people keep saying they’re backing Pittsburgh, the more I feel nervous for my adopted team. If you see Big Ben, tell him that Pennsylvania’s behind him. Football fans, I’ll see you Sunday, I bet.

Kobe provides 81 reasons to remember
By Mark Clayton
Staff Writer

Immediately following ESPNews clips showing Kobe Bean Bryant’s 81 points against the Toronto Raptors, the debate had already begun: “Which was more impressive, Kobe’s 81 or Wilt’s 100?”

Last Sunday, I caught wind of history in the making when one of my roommates shouted down the hall, “Kobe’s got 71 points with five minutes left in the fourth.” Game casting and ESPNews were clearly the next logical steps for the apartment. As I witnessed Kobe tack on 10 more points to finish with 81 (and two dimes), I knew that this was a night that will never be forgotten. Laker owner Jerry Buss said it was “like watching a miracle unfold.”

I will go out on a limb and say that Kobe’s 81 is more impressive than Wilt Chamberlain’s 100 points against the Knicks in 1962. “But Mark, 19 points is a lot, you’re just going to dismiss them?” No, I’m not, but I will try to explain them. Wilt played in a different era and with some rules that aided him to reach the century mark. For instance, the pace of NBA games in Wilt’s era was much quicker and more frantic, encouraging more shot attempts and points. More significant was the width of the paint. Today’s key is 16 feet wide; in 1962, it was only 12 feet. This allowed Wilt to establish position closer to the bucket for easier shots. Lastly, Wilt was 7’1” tall; the tallest player on the Knicks that night was only 6’10”.

When Kobe dropped 81 against the hurting Raptors, he did so with all the focus on him. “Hey, didn’t Wilt have the spotlight on him?” Sure, Wilt had the spotlight on him, but he was physically bigger and much more dominant than his opponents. Kobe’s diverse skills were illustrated that magical night in the Staples Center. Kobe was money from downtown, had high-flying dunks, and stroked a cool 18-20 from the charity stripe. Kobe put his nearly flawless game on show and did so with the city of Los Angeles judging and watching everything he does on and off the court.

I think it’s much harder for a shooting guard to go for silly amounts of points than an oversized center. It takes more skill and ability to create shots, get open, and actually can those shots. This fact, combined with the fact the NBA is so much better now than in 1962, allows me to say that Kobe’s 81 is a better performance than Wilt’s 100.

If you really want to get into it, the debate can get into the greatest individual sports performances of all time in all sports. Some other unforgettable moments that have to be mentioned are Tiger’s ’97 Masters domination, Don Larson’s perfect game in the ’56 World Series, Lance Armstrong’s seventh Tour de France, Jesse Owens’ four Gold Medals in the ’36 Olympics in Nazi Germany, and Secretariat’s Triple Crown. Despite what you think about Kobe the man, Kobe the player deserves to be on that list.

The beauty in sports is that on any given night you can witness history. Kobe tried to comment on his night shortly after the final horn, “It really hasn’t, like, set in for me. It’s about the ‘W,’ that’s why I turned it on. It turned into something special. To sit here and say I grasp what happened, that would be lying.” To this sports fan, this game was not about the W, it was about 81 and the record books. Just last week, most of the nation had their eyes wide open and jaws dropped as they saw one of the greatest individual sports performances of all time. You can count on that: 81 times.