THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE WEEK AHEAD

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2006

It’s a rocky road to the championship

The men’s basketball team is 3-9 for away games. The upcoming SoCon tournament is in Charleston, SC. Will the ’Cats be able to overcome this debilitating problem of competing outside Belk Arena and take the trophy?

That’s a question that, as Mar. 2 approaches, is on the minds of more and more Davidson fans. The team’s issues against Wofford and Western Carolina seemed based in the mental, so sometime before the tournament, a Wildcat will need to step up into a leadership role. As Vince Lombardi said, “Confidence is contagious. So is lack of confidence.”

The women have proven this to be true. Janell Crayton ’06, the team’s lone senior, has had inspired performances lately, especially in last week’s game against Elon. The women hold an away record of 6-3. Looking ahead to the conference tournament, their biggest hurdle will be meeting Chattanooga in Charleston.

There are seven seniors on the men’s roster. Ian Johnson ’06 is a force from inside, but like his teammates, he’s had a small amount of trouble this season. Johnson went 0-9 in the loss to Chattanooga and 1-9 in the loss to Western Carolina. He did lead the team with 13 points (not his highest by far) in Furman’s upset win on Jan. 14. Nevertheless, with the victory, the Paladins struck not only a huge blow to morale but ended Davidson’s 27-game conference winning streak. That game marked a low point in an otherwise positive season for the Wildcats.

Not that they haven’t played well. Johnson’s had four double-doubles. He put up 20 when the Wildcats retaliated against Furman in the teams’ second match-up. Against big names like Missouri, St. Joseph’s and Duke, he and the other forwards proved that they had the talent and the drive to compete at any level. Brendan Winters ’06, a senior guard, has added double figures in the last 14 games—enough to scare any opponent. He’s lived up to his reputation as a solid shooter, and so has Jason Morton ’06, whose performance against The Citadel recently went down in the all-time record books. Kenny Grant ’06 is sixth in the nation for assists—an impressive stat that will give the team an edge over their opponents. Although he’s not a major scorer, he’s definitely found his niche in the roster.

Last night, the men lost a close game to Georgia Southern, setting them back and making the road to the title that much more difficult. Luckily, they clinched a bye in the first round with the win against Furman and still have a chance for first place. The semifinals will be the men’s true test of focus. They should pretty much roll through the first few games, and if—when—they are victorious in the semifinals, the final will be the seniors’ time to shine.

The women have an equally high chance of taking the conference tournament, but one steamroller of a team stands in their way. Chattanooga currently has D-1’s longest winning streak—22 and, perhaps, counting. Undefeated in the conference (their record is 17-0), they last lost in November. They are, in other words, the team to beat. Davidson is 11-6 in the conference, having lost just last night to the Mountaineers of App. St. Outside shooting is a clear threat to the ’Cats game, but the team has shown resolve and determination that will take them far into the tournament. Defense wins games, and in the case of the Wildcats, it triggers a more aggressive offense. In Davidson’s two games against Chatt this season, accuracy of the Lady Mocs on three-pointers is an issue. Tia Washington ’07 in particular is a weapon that the Wildcats will need to utilize in order to prevail over Chattanooga’s shooting game. On Feb. 6, the last meeting between the two teams, she had a perfect night, going 7-7 in the field and 2-2 on the line despite the overall loss.

Both the men’s and women’s teams will make it to the championship. That is not only the fervent wish of every Davidson fan, but it is a good bet based on watching them play at both their best and worst and with knowledge of their rivals for the crown. Like Lombardi said, “If winning isn’t everything, why do they keep score?”

An interview with coach McKillop

The Davidsonian recently had the opportunity to sit down with men’s basketball coach Bob McKillop. He reflected upon the 2005-2006 season and the accomplishments of a special class of seniors.

The Davidsonian: What are the differences you’ve found between playing at home and on the road in the Southern Conference this season?

Bob McKillop: Last year’s success was built around victories in a lot of close games. This year’s success has been built around early big leads and significant margins. What we haven’t done this year is win close games on the road. Those games were within reach, yet a missed shot here or not getting a stop or giving up a second shot opportunity cost us the win. Last year, wewere able to navigate through those rough waters, but this year, we have not been able to do that. Part of the factor is the atmosphere of a team that’s a home team. Part of the factor is the different vantage point that both Davidson players and fans have about this team, that we are supposed to be a very special team, as well as the vantage point that opponents have about us, as we are a big target in many cases for the opposing team. If you listened to the Fox telecast on Saturday, you heard Lane Odom, the color commentator, consistently mention how Davidson has a big target on its back and everyone is gunning for us. That is sort of an imprimatur, which is a stamp that the Pope would put on something to make sure it was a legitimate church doctrine, sort of a stamp of approval. I look at it as a stamp of approval of what we have accomplished with our program.

TD: When you look at improvement over the course of this season, which players stand out as really improving as individuals?

BM: It’s different as you look at each individual player, because what you see as improvement may not be reflected in statistics, nor in the performance of the technical aspect of the game. When you look at statistics and technical aspects, there is no doubt that Andrew Lovedale, Thomas Sander, and Jason Morton jump out very clearly as guys who have improved significantly with their statistical presence, as well as their technical development. But then you look at a guy like Kenny Grant, and how do you measure the great leadership that he is showing? You look at Matt McKillop; how do you measure the toughness that he gives? You look at Brendan Winters; how do you measure the versatility that he has decided to make a calling card for his performance? Those things are difficult to measure statistically, but they are clearly improvements that are so valuable for us to have accomplished what we have to this date.

TD: Statistically, we lead the conference in assists and scoring offense, and yet our leading scorer is not amongst the top five scorers in the conference. Does that reflect on our versatility of scoring threats?

BM: Well, that was the hallmark of our team last year. I’d like to think that it is a product of the system that we run here, where we’re an equal opportunity offense, and we believe in being well-rounded and not needing one player to be the dominant factor in our performance. Eric Blancett’s performance against Georgia Southern at home was one of the great performances this year. Jason Morton’s at The Citadel was one of the great performances this year. So there you have two guys coming off the bench and being two of the most significant contributors in those games. And that makes it a very attractive situation for our team when you have that many players that can make big plays at big times.

TD: Your philosophy of never looking ahead but taking things one practice and film session at a time is becoming a trademark of this program. Does this experienced group of seniors make that philosophy easier for the players to adopt at the end of this season?

BM: It is a very difficult challenge for a senior class with 28 [combined] years of participating in our program to still step on the practice court and enjoy, relish, cherish, grow and progress as a result of the practice experience, yet they do it. And that’s a tribute to the kind of men they are and to the kind of leaders they are. It makes it so much easier for a coach going into that environment when he has willing students. And professors here will tell you how great it is to walk into a classroom where the students are sponges for knowledge and self-improvement. That’s the kind of atmosphere that we have in the classroom known as our gym.

TD: Will this last week of the season be different than in years past with such a special class that includes your son [Matt McKillop], Brendan Winters, Jason Morton, Chris Clunie, Eric Blancett, Ian Johnson, and Kenny Grant?

BM: There’s no doubt that the emotion of this time period has the potential to be high-intensity emotion. I try to measure myself as I go through this process by taking it a step at a time and not taking too big of a step forward, because then you can get caught up in the emotion of the moment. So I’ve really disciplined myself to cherish each moment that I’m on the court, each moment that I’m with them on the bus, or the locker room or training room. I’ve tried to make myself more visible on campus to see them in different environments. I’m thoroughly enjoying this experience, and when you’re enjoying an experience like this, you don’t start reminiscing or feeling like you’re going to lose it. But you’re looking at that glass as being half full. Right now, I’m going to drink every ounce of that glass and enjoy doing it.

Interview by Will Bryan ’08