THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2006 7

Jewish rapper more than a novelty
By PRESTON DAVIS
Staff Writer

America’s music scene, arguably in need of a radical renewal, might have just found its savior. Matisyahu, a lyricist, MC, beat-boxer, and devout Hasidic Jew, brings a fresh sound to the pop-culture scene unlike anything else available today. Born Matthew Miller, the artist, who now calls himself by his given Hebrew name meaning “gift of God,” is quite unique by current musician standards. A member of the Lubavitch Hasidic Community in the Crown Heights sector of Brooklyn, New York, Matisyahu creates faith-inspired music that flows from the artist’s genuine, deep spiritual well. He even includes Psalm 27, which begins “The Lord is my light and my life,” on the last page of the booklet for his recently released album “Youth.” The Psalm’s beginning provides insight into the artist’s wish to create inspirational music reflective of his own spiritual upwelling.

Matisyahu’s “Youth,” released on Mar. 7, dynamically threads together a collection of genres to create a beautifully progressive sound largely unheard in this day of whiny indie rock and material-gripped rap. While he incorporates various music styles in his tracks, Matisyahu will resonate mostly as a Reggae beat-boxer. His band complements his innovative approach by plunging deeply into unknown musical depths, exploring different sounds and styles just as much as the artist himself. Though Phish and Bob Marley may come to listeners’ minds when they hear this album, Matisyahu hopes that his audience won’t forget where his own sound truly originates. As he says in his song “What I’m Fighting For,” the spiritual renewal and salvation that he’s fighting for is “worth much more than gold.”

As a Hasidic artist with a catchy reggae sound atypical of music coming through the airwaves today, Matisyahu might be seen by some as a temporary musical novelty. This, however, should not be the case. Remarkable and refreshing, Matisyahu crafts lyrical substance in his music, reconciling the realms of popular culture found in reggae and hip hop with the ancient Judaic religion. He does not, however, excel solely off of taking an intermediary position between the domains. The album’s eclectic composition stays fresh even after repeated listening. While Matisyahu’s temporary popularity will likely thrive off his image, characterized by the traditionally unshaven face, broad-brimmed black hat, and complementing black suit of Hasidic Jewish males, his albums will continue to receive praise for their innovative nature far into the future.

“Youth” has already risen to the number four spot on the Billboard charts, finding itself among the album releases of artists like Shakira, James Blunt, and Ne-Yo. Though these musicians are unique, their sounds have been established for a while. Matisyahu, on the other hand, has reached the heights of the music world by creating a sound that spins the established into his own inimitable construction. “Youth” may be criticized, however, because the sound is much more polished than that from the artist’s former reggae and hip-hop past. However, the finished product still maintains the artist’s reggae roots while reserving the ability to appeal to a wider audience. By establishing himself with this broader sound, Matisyahu might be able to take new listeners toward the more raw style found on his previous albums “Shake Off the Dust” and “Live at Stubb’s.” “Live at Stubb’s” recently resided in the top 50 on the Billboard Chart, giving Matisyahu the distinction of being the only artist to have two albums simultaneously in the top 40s. He should remain there for some time.

Matisyahu’s ability to merge Jewish tradition with reggae roots peppered with other musical styles has spawned something special that should resonate with all listeners, spiritual or otherwise.

WALT, from page 6

The proceeds from last year’s event went to charity. “All of these projects are aimed at making WALT not simply a radio station but a real impetus for music on campus,” said Ansley. Part of this impetus is WALT’s mobile DJ-ing operation, which it hopes to take to new levels this spring. “With the nice weather, look for us on Friday afternoons playing music in the Union Amphitheatre,” said Ansley. The radio station, however, as well as the originality it allows for, is what defines WALT. Shows like “Mango Swami,” hosted by Alisha Damodaran ’08 and Nafisa Isa ’08, have evolved into a space for DJs’ own creative expression. “We have cool music of various genres from pretty much all over the world. We wanted to find a way to share some of it with other Davidson students,” said Damodaran. On their show, the two feature foreign artists like A.R. Rehman, Asian Dub Foundation, MC Solaar, and Penn Masala, a Hindi-English a cappella group.Group. “We like to emphasize the international and creative aspect of the music we play, maybe even the political relevance,” added Isa. While WALT’s DJs are obviously enthusiastic about what they do, the station is not known for drawing a large audience, though listenership varies by show. “We love the WALT studio, especially when we’re hanging out with our peanut gallery of fans during the show,” said Damadoran. Ansley said student reception to WALT was cyclical. “WALT needs to attract more listeners through the ease of podcasting and streaming, and those new listeners will encourage the DJs to put on a good show each and every week,” said Ansley. In the meantime, Ansley and the other WALT e-board members encourage everyone to check out the station’s website at www.listentowalt.com, which provides a list of each radio show and its time slot.

‘Smoking’ satisfies craving for modern satire
By STEVE KALISKI
Senior Staff Writer

Early on in “Thank You for Smoking,” the head of a major tobacco firm implores his think tank to up its efforts. Sales are down, but they shouldn’t be. “We don’t sell Tic Tacs,” he says. “We sell cigarettes. And they’re cool, available and addictive. The job is almost done for us.” His words could just as easily describe the film itself, a hip and highly relevant satire that should compel the consumer-culture skeptic in all of us to crave viewing after viewing.

Not everything in “Thank You for Smoking” seems healthy. Can you remember the last time cancer, exploitation, drug overdoses and political deceit got such laughs? Still, under the sly direction of Jason Reitman, the film hooks its viewer instantly. Even more surprising is how this adaptation of Christopher Buckley’s novel displays a vibrant conscience beneath its slick smokescreens of cleverness. Though it predictably and mercilessly skews hypocrisy in all sectors of commercial and governmental life, it also asks sensitive questions about parenting, professional motivations and the merits of debate. As Reitman’s script astutely suggests, “If you argue right, you’re never wrong.”

If nothing else, cigarette lobbyist Nick Naylor, smugly nailed by actor Aaron Eckhart, embodies the ideal of being good at one’s job. Moral conundrums of advocating tobacco aside, Nick earns our sympathies because he’s both skilled at and unashamed of his work. We meet Naylor at a moment when cigarettes’ popularity is suffering from increasingly effective health advocacy. As the voice of the Academy of Tobacco Studies, he comes up with the inspired idea of reintegrating smoking into mainstream cinema. Naylor and hotshot Hollywood executive Jeff Megall, played by Rob Lowe, agree to place cigarettes within the climax of the new Brad Pitt-Catherine Zeta-Jones sci-fi thriller. If this happens, how can smoking NOT be cool?

Naylor also faces an uphill battle with a Vermont senator, played by William H. Macy, who has campaigned to have a skull-and-crossbones placed on every cigarette carton in America. The “Merchants of Death” or MOD squad, as the advocates for the alcohol and firearm industries are referred to in the film, provide solace for Nick, but the senator nonetheless poses a real threat. Amidst all of this, Naylor must maintain the respect of his son Joey, played by Cameron Bright, an impressionable youngster who idolizes his father. Naylor has previously glossed over his job description to Joey, but once the two hit the road together, Naylor must show his protégé what the business of argument is all about.

Countless familiar faces appear in brief but wickedly funny roles. Robert Duvall steals a few scenes as “The Captain,” an old South, Colonel Sanders-esque tobacco benefactor who lights a cigar mere moments after surviving a heart attack. As kooky, obnoxious entertainment moguls, Lowe and “O.C.” vet Adam Brody garner the most laughs per second. One simple scene in which Brody’s character leads Naylor and Joey to Jeff’s office exudes enough comic vivacity to distinguish the primetime soapster as a potentially knockout talent.

Only the perennially disappointing Katie Holmes seems out of place. Entering the frame for a few blasé sex scenes, the love of Tom Cruise’s life once again surrounds herself with actors whose talents far exceed her own; for proof of this, see “Batman Begins.” Still, Holmes’ role as a deceptive reporter adds another potent headache to Naylor’s struggle. His confrontations with her, as well as with the rest of the media, best portray his outer and inner struggles over smoking.

In the end, Nick’s waltz through this landscape of hypocrisy does not celebrate tobacco so much as it condemns institutions that view themselves as morally superior to the cigarette industry. We all know that Naylor knows that smoking is bad for you, but that is not the point. Unlike his opposition, he wisely recognizes that everything—even tobacco—deserves an argument.

Aaron Eckhart, who plays a lobbyist for Big Tobacco, takes heat from the media.