THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 2006

The Clayton guide to the 2006 NFL Draft
By MARK CLAYTON
Staff Writer

Many of us graduating this May either have jobs or are in the process of looking for employment. These potential jobs bring a lot of variables to the table, such as location, salary, benefits, prestige of employer, and co-workers. Imagine coming out of college, at the top of the class in your respective field, and having absolutely no control over your future. In fact, the best and most qualified graduate will most likely be working for the worst company next year. Doesn’t seem to make sense, does it? You could be a kid from sunny Miami sent to work in freezing Buffalo for the next 10 years or a country boy from Auburn, Ala., heading to the big city lights of New York City.

The drama behind this scenario is going to take place this Saturday at noon marking the start of the 2006 NFL Draft. All of Davidson’s graduating seniors somehow slipped past the watchful eye of draft expert Mel Kiper and can’t be found on his “Big Board,” so this question of future employment is not as big an issue here at D-Town. On the other hand, some of the top prospects around the country will hear their name called on Saturday and Sunday knowing that for the most part, the next five years of their lives (guaranteed to first-round picks) will be determined by everyone but them.

With so many questions left unanswered around the NFL and with general managers strategically scheming to help only themselves, I will attempt to shed some light on what will happen this weekend. I will predict who is going where, who will be busts, and who my sleeper players are in this year’s NFL Draft. Draft day is more than just an opportunity to get a football fix in late April. It’s more than a chance to grill out and kick back with fellow fantasy owners. It is a day that brings hope and optimism to each of the 32 teams and their fans around America.

America’s college football valedictorian, Reggie Bush, will go number one to the Houston Texans with the first pick in the draft. These rumors about Mario Williams, the DE from N.C. State, are complete jokes. If the Texans select anyone but Reggie Bush or Vince Young, I think the city might riot. Reggie Bush is a talent that no one has ever seen before. Reggie flat out flies on the football field and can run, catch, and return the football wherever he wants.

Coming from a high school where winning is a tradition, the team selecting the first quarterback should value wins and losses. For me, ranking the quarterbacks in this year's draft is pretty simple: 1) Matt Leinart (USC), 2) Vince Young (Texas), 3) Jay Cutler (Vandy). For over two years, Matt Leinart dominated the Pac-10 and college football. He more than filled in the vacancy left by Carson Palmer by winning two national championships. Vince Young’s performance in last year's Rose Bowl is one of the best single performances I have ever seen and the kid has the heart of a champion. Then there is Cutler, who had some solid years and one very good year at Vanderbilt, but even in that very good year Vandy was only 5-6 overall. To put it bluntly, Leinart will evolve into a Pro Bowl quarterback in this league. Moving away from Laguna Beach (and Kristen) will be tough on Matt, but his ability to throw the deep ball will comfort him in his new home. Young’s athleticism is his greatest strength. His ability to move in the pocket and break down defenses on the run will draw comparison to McNabb in yearsto come. It’s way too early to call Cutler a bust, but I see his future taking a trip down Ryan Leaf Lane. The whole draft hinges on the Saints pick at No. 2; from there, the other top prospects' fate will hang. Some names to get accustomed to are DE Mario Williams from NC State—the dude is a freak, with talents only mirrored by the likes of Chuck Norris. The top offensive lineman is OT D’Brickashaw Ferguson from Virginia. Maybe the greatest pass-receiving threat is not a wideout, but TE Vernon Davis from Maryland. The guy is silly: 6’4”, 254, and runs a 4.4. Some other names sure to make an impact in their first year are LB AJ Hawk, CB Michael Huff, and DT Haloti Ngata from Oregon. My two sleeper picks are going to be future big-time running backs in the NFL. While Reggie Bush deserves all his accolades, including the Heisman, his teammate LenDale White is going to make a team very happy. Currently with a torn hammy, he’s going to fall to the late first round and be a steal for some organization. Another big, strong runner is Minnesota’s Laurence Maroney. This guy is the real deal and had no problem running against any defense he faced this year, including Ohio State and Penn State. These two would be great backs for late first-round picks by Pittsburgh and New England. So there you have it—a basic guide to the weekend and what to look out for. I can guarantee you the Lions won’t pick a wideout for the fourth straight year in the first round and that Eli Manning won’t nearly cry because the Chargers drafted him. Besides watching and rooting for your team to pick the guy that fills your biggest need, be sure to watch the players, the college graduates, as everyone but them tells them they are starting their new career.

BOOKS DUE:
Interlibrary Loan items: May 4th
Items from Little Library: May 10th

- On the Library home page, select ‘View Your Account’ to see items you still have checked out and if any fines are due.

PLEASE HELP US FIND BOOKS:
If you see books left on campus, please bring them back to the Library or send us an email and we'll pick them up, because...

INVENTORY REPORT:
Only 215 books reported lost in 2005, a big drop from the previous year! The lost list can be checked at the reference desk. Let us know if you know where any would be... we hope it will be even lower this year.

EXAM HOURS:
Little Library open until 3 A.M., Thursday, May 4 — Tuesday, May 9. Check the Library homepage for daily hours for Little Library and Music Library.

WANT A STUDENT CARREL NEXT YEAR?
Applications are at the Reference Desk from now until May 10th.

LAPTOPS:
You have checked them out over 3,000 times so far this year, so we will be adding four more for next year!

AUDIO BOOKS:
There are over 1,000 audio books in our catalogue which you can download for 3-week periods... while you are here or on vacation away from here... just have access to the Library homepage. A link there lists the titles and how to download. These are thanks to NCLIVE.

E-BOOKS:
Find a book in the catalogue and want to read it but you are not in Davidson? There are 3,644 hardback titles which also have a copy in electronic format which you can download. There will be a link on that title’s main entry on how to ‘check it out.’ There are also over 200,000 full-text e-books of early and American titles you may read online.

IDEAS FOR NEXT YEAR:
The staff soon will be working on plans for next year and we always want your input. It’s your Library. From the Library homepage, select the ‘Suggestion Box’ link... we’ll look forward to hearing from you.

GOOD LUCK ON EXAMS... THANKS FOR A GREAT YEAR... HAVE A GREAT SUMMER.

~The Library Staff