16 Wintershad 24 points versus the Spartans on Wednesday.

By WILL BRYAN
Senior Staff Writer

Coming off its fourth Southern Conference road loss at Wofford last Saturday, Davidson (15-9, 8-4) faced a must-win situation against The Citadel on Monday. The Citadel was looking for its first Southern Conference victory of the season and came out firing, making Davidson look vulnerable throughout the entire first half. The Wildcats had picked up their only tough road win against the College of Charleston back in January, and they proved to everyone that they would not fade against The Citadel this time, building an 11-point lead with over a minute remaining and holding on for an 81-77 victory. Hopefully, this confidence will extend to the Southern Conference tournament, which will be held in Charleston in a little over two weeks.

This crazy week started last Wednesday as fans filed into Belk Arena looking to bounce back from the home upset to Western Carolina. The Wildcats came out strong against UNC-Greensboro, hitting six first-half three-pointers en route to a 46-31 halftime lead. The Wildcats combined an aggressive, trapping defense and hot-shooting offense to bury the Spartans. Brendan Winters ’06 finished with 24 points, and Davidson looked to be back on the winning track as the team cruised to a 92-73 victory.

Unfortunately, the Wildcats were forced to go back on the road on Saturday when they traveled to Wofford. Sporting a 2-7 road record at that point, the men in red knew they would get a fight from the Terriers in a gym where Davidson had only won once in the last five years. The Wildcats seemed to take the challenge in stride as they found an offensive rhythm inside with Ian Johnson ’06, who finished with a game-high 23 points on 11-20 field goal shooting. Davidson had no trouble finding proficient scoring, but that was not enough to overcome the two-headed monster of Wofford’s three-point shooting and a knee injury to reserve guard Jason Morton ’06. Morton’s injury came early in the first half, and his hot shooting and quick defense went to the bench with him. Unable to mount a successful charge against Wofford’s eight second-half three-pointers, the Wildcats again proved unable to win a game when not leading at halftime, falling 84-71.

On Monday night, it looked like Davidson finally found a formula for winning on the road. Playing against an inspired Citadel team whose guards continued to hit fantastic shots, Davidson established a philosophy of team toughness. When the Bulldogs hit a shot, the Wildcats would go on the attack and get points on the offensive end, instead of playing flustered as they have in the past. Davidson’s hard work paid off defensively near the end of the game as the team went on a 14-2 run to build an 11-point lead with just over a minute to play. “They hit some big shots, but we responded every time instead of getting knocked to the mat,” said coach Bob McKillop. “We got down, but we did not relent. And we have made that a point of emphasis when playing on the road.” The Wildcats also made it a team effort on Monday as the Wildcat bench compensated for a 3-15 FG performance by co-captains Winters, Kenny Grant ’06, and Matt McKillop ’06.

See Men’s Basketball, page 14

Women get wins over Georgia Southern and Elon

By Suzie Eckt & MONICA JAMOUNEAU
Senior Staff & Sports Editor

With 16 points, Janell Crayton ’06 led her team for the sixth time this season, bringing Davidson to a67-52 victory over the Georgia Southern Eagles. Davidson swept Georgia Southern in this season’s two-game series and now sits at 13-10 overall and 9-5 in Southern Conference play. Starting the game with a 7-0 run, the Wildcats took the early lead, which they held for the rest of the game. Throughout the first period, Davidson built on its advantage, shooting just above its season average at 41.7 percent. The Wildcat defense stood out while keeping the Eagles at a low 23.3 percent. Before halftime, the ’Cats played with energy and racked up a comfortable 15-point cushion. The lead was preserved despite a last-minute effort by the opposing team, when Georgia Southern’s Leslie Spoon downed the last basket of the half.

Returning from the locker room, the Wildcats began the second half more slowly than the first, and they let Georgia Southern come out on an 8-2 run. The Eagle offensive effort managed to bring the game within nine. This was as close as the Eagles would get, however, although their shooting percentage increased to 40.0 percent. They also matched Davidson for total points in the last half with 33. During the second period, Crayton got into foul trouble, committing four straight fouls. Coach Annette Watts took this opportunity to rest the high-scorer, taking her out of the game for more than eight minutes. Even without their high scorer, the Wildcats continued to extend their lead to as many as 23 and had three other players in double figures for the night’s effort. In the last 1:16 of the game, Georgia Southern sank three treys, two from Eagle guard Ashley Rivens in an attempt to close the gap. Their efforts came too late for the win, however, and the Wildcats finished the night ahead by 15 points.

Eight of Davidson’s players hit the court throughout the night, and the starters averaged 31 minutes, compared to the 23.2 minutes averaged by Georgia Southern’s five. The Wildcats took down more rebounds than the Eagles, a close 45-40 margin, and also played strongly down low to record more than half of their 36 points in the paint.

In last night’s conference game at host Elon, Crayton gave the Wildcats’ star performance, cranking out a game-high 18 points to seal a 60-47 win at Alumni Gym. This was the fourth consecutive win against the Phoenix by the Wildcats. The ’Cats are now 10-5 in the Southern Conference and 14-10 overall. At 12:14, Kelly Gassie ’09 fired a shot and delivered Davidson an early lead at 14-11. With 18:35 left in the first half, the Phoenix were up by two, but three lead changes and three ties later, the ’Cats went on an 18-4 run to take the advantage. The Phoenix were held scoreless for over nine minutes and committed two shot clock violations. Gassie hit a jumper before the end of the half, and when

See Women’s Basketball, page 14

Crayton ’06 had 18 points in a 60-47 win at The Citadel.

Player of the Week
Jason Morton ‘06
Men’s Basketball
Hometown: Charlotte, N.C.
Morton scored a career-high 27 points to lead the Wildcats in Monday's 81-77 victory over The Citadel. The guard shot 100 percent from behind the arc, going 6-6 and setting a new school record for most three-pointers with no misses.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Boyd delivers wrestlers’ only victory against Mocs
Marcus Boyd '07 (174) won a 5-3 decision over his opponent on Saturday, garnering Davidson's only points in its loss to UT-Chattanooga. With his win, Boyd has lined up nine consecutive victories and improved to 12-1 for the season.