THE DAVIDSONIAN

ITS stops viruses; next up: acne
See Page 5

‘Slander is the incontinence
Strikes in Belk Lal disaster
See Page 12

LIKE A GOOD NEIGHBOR
RLO IS THERE
Popularity of RLO's ‘gecko’ ad spawns new

THE YOWL
Your Davidsonian Honor Section
Editors: Bobby Kenner and Jeff Yeakel
Gay Cowboys: Nathan Bradshaw, Brent McCormick
Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editors at bokenner@davidson.edu or jeyeakel@davidson.edu.
Note: The Yowl is the humor and satire section of The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as
truth.

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER
Caution: Contains Drivel
January 25, 2006

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2006

The Davidsonian

Dean of Faculty Jay Wilkins received three letters of protest this week from students claiming they were being treated improperly
upon declaring an academic major. The letters, while varying in specific reports, agreed that professors took too many liberties with
what they could demand of newly declared majors. The English, Chemistry, and Psychology departments were named specifically, but since these
letters became public knowledge, Wilkins has received complaints about many other departments as well.

Ellen Huggins ’08 declared last semester as an English major with a concentration in Creative Writing and chose Albert Granville,
the James Kerrigan Chair of Creative Writing and three-time Gordon Hewitt classroom excellence award winner, as her advisor. She wrote
one of the three initial letters to Wilkins to report that Granville, along with Professors Friedrich von Klausen and Janice
Pinter, forced her to smoke an opium pipe as part of her “homework” while studying Romantic poetry.

“They said I had to do it if I wanted to really understand what Coleridge was talking about,” said Huggins.
“He did it, and he was a creative writer. If I want to be a creative writer, I have to
follow the tradition. At least, that’s the way they put it to me. At the time, I was about six
or seven beers in, so I was willing to go along with it.” In retrospect, Huggins feels that it was
a poor decision on her part, as well as departmental manipulation on the part of the professors.

Granville declined to respond, although von Klausen, who happened to be smoking a long pipe when he was interviewed, explained
that there are many traditions in the English department, especially with the creative writing concentration. “They're all harmless, of course,
but it’s a kind of initiation so the newbies feel like they’re, you know, part of the group,” explained von
Klausen. “The administration has always turned a blind eye to little infractions of school policy in favor of tradition. That’s
what you have to keep in mind here: it’s tradition.”

Chemistry department chair Hannah Bridgers voiced her lack of concern over the protests. “We're not going to lose any pledges—errr,
majors, I meant, of course, to say majors—over something like this,” declared Dr. Bridgers. “Chemistry is a demanding field; if
a few of the people who thought they could handle it are having second thoughts after declaring, they’ll either suck
it up or leave.”

Before I begin my review of “Brokeback Mountain,” let me assure you that I have not seen the picture. I
did, however, see part of the preview as I was walking into “Grandma’s Boy,” so I’m pretty sure that I
get the gist. And I must say I am simply appalled. One of America’s finest figures is the cowboy, and
“Brokeback” has no respect for the traditional image of the cowboy. Or, at least, the trailer doesn’t. When I think
of a cowboy, I want to think of John Wayne, Clint Eastwood, or the Marlboro Man. Cowboys are supposed to
do hon-Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Honorable, masculine things like ride horses, shoot bad guys and sell us cigarettes. It used to be so simple and
pure. and deal, or they'll move on to more oxidized pastures.” Bridgers also dismissed the accusation that she and her
colleagues forced sophomores to mix several organic chemicals together and chug them. She claimed that while drinking the chemicals may
occur during afternoon labs, it is always optional and done under the supervision of a professor. “No one has to
do anything if they don’t want to,” Bridgers said. Anonymous reports have also come in claiming student abuse by several
other departments. One report claimed that Biology majors were forced to run from campus to the wildlife preserve dressed only
in their “epidermis,” thus exposing their “reproductive organs.” Another report claimed that the entire Math department stayed up until 4:30
a.m. getting drunk and then marched onto their newly declared majors’ halls and woke the students up. This caused a
disturbance to the students’ hallmates, who were awoken to drunken chants of the Pythagorean theorem and the instructions for how
to take an integral with a TI-89 calculator. The new majors were then forced to walk back to one of
the Math professor’s houses, where they were doused in whipped cream, chocolate syrup and numbers. Wilkins has appointed a committee
consisting of members of the Education, Humanities and Chinese departments to investigate the alleged “academic hazing” in the three accused
departments. A similar investigation took place several years ago to discern whether or not there was student abuse in the
German department. When it was discovered that there were, in fact, no students majoring in German, the investigation was summarily
halted. Students, however, feel that not only will this committee be ineffective, but it will also ignore the larger problems
in the academic departments. Thompson Pfeiffer '07, said, “Forget what goes on in the Psych and Chem departments. They should
be looking at the CIS. Those professors over there are kind of crazy. It’s like they’re separate from the rest
of campus, so they don’t have to worry about the police coming by and doing a routine check. And you
know how Center majors are always kind of their own little group? There’s definitely a reason for that. I heard
that each incoming class has to chug a bottle of street wine and the loser’s proposal gets rejected.” “No one
has to do anything if they don't want to.” Since there is no policy regarding what is required of newly
declared majors for any department, SGA is considering creating a set of bylaws to deal with such situations. Until then,
however, it may be safer for students to remain undeclared and enjoy the academic rush. Cowboys would ride on horses
for hundreds of miles, herding livestock across dangerous terrain. They would carouse about local saloons, drinking whiskey and gambling. And
sometimes when they played cards, they would argue about who cheated until one of them was dead. What has Hollywood
done to this whimsical, fanciful image of the cowboy? Like so many of our other traditions, destroyed it by trying
to make it hipper for a younger generation. Kids today want everything to be fast-paced, glitzy and homosexual. When I
was younger, I used to dress up like a cowboy every Halloween. I used to imagine what it would be
like to herd cattle, drink whiskey and shoot cheaters. Now, because of this flashy Hollywood blockbuster, that beautiful image is
tainted for me. I do applaud the local theatres that have thought better than to let this cowboy-bashing run rampant.
If you want to see “Brokeback Mountain,” you have to go to Charlotte or some other ‘metro’ area. Lucky for
me, I don’t traverse around those parts; I stick to more traditional, rural areas. Like a cowboy. My Review:
