GDhe Dav
DAVIDSON COLLEGE @ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @ WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2006
sonian Permit #1 | First CLASS | Davidson, NC U.S. PostaGE PAID | VOLUME 97, NUMBER 22

Josiah Cameron ’09, from Jenkintown, Penn., died in his sleep last night, according to an email sent to students by Associate Dean of Students and Director of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano. In response to the tragedy, many students gathered in the Sprinkle Room of the Union to talk with counselors and College leaders. Student Counseling Center Director David Staton spent Tuesday night on campus and was available all night for emergency counseling. Dean of Students Tom Shandley said that students wishing to speak individually with a counselor should contact the Student Counseling Center or the Dean of Students Office. Special discussion groups will also be held this week. “We expect, at a time convenient to his parents, a memorial service to be held on campus,” President Bobby Vagt said.

Student Counseling Center: (704) 894-2451
Counselor-on-Call (after hours): (704) 356-2118

-By Liz Barry and Ruchi Turakhia

GSA proposes co-ed housing for campus
By AMELIA RICHMOND
Staff Writer

The Gay Straight Alliance (GSA) has requested that the college provide co-ed housing for students in Tomlinson and Martin Court apartments. Though the co-ed housing initiative is still in the early stage, advocates hope to gain increased support from the Residence Life Office (RLO), Board of Trustees and students through campus discussions and awareness.

“Having a co-ed housing option would tremendously help the GLBTQ (Gay Lesbian Bisexual Transsexual Questioning) community feel more comfortable on campus,” Freshman Class President and GSA member Richmond Blake ’09 said.

Students have mixed opinions about the initiative. “I think that Davidson is too conservative for co-ed housing. I don’t think that Davidson is the kind of school that has that sort of thing,” Abby McKenna ’09 said. Others think that Davidson should be the kind of school that supports co-ed housing. “I think co-ed housing could serve as a catalyst for social change at Davidson or at least it would be a first step,” Andi Altmeyer ’06 said. Other students seem unfazed by the issue. “I wouldn’t mind if [co-ed housing] was an option but I wouldn’t want to do it,” Chike Lawrence-Mitchell ’09 said.

Associate Dean of Students and Director of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano said that if given support from the Trustees and students, RLO does have the capabilities of setting up a co-ed living option. “RLO is willing to provide the sorts of housing that the community finds desirable,” Marsicano said.

Supporters of co-ed housing argue that since Davidson’s straight community can live with a member of the sex that they are not attracted to, the GLBTQ community should be given the same option. “A co-ed living option would show that we are a supportive and accepting community,” Associate Director of Residence Life Leslie Urban said. Blake also said that co-ed hous-

See Co-ed, page 2

Skelton addresses Trustees
By EMILY KOTA
Senior Staff Writer

Student Government Association (SGA) President Mac Skelton ’07 addressed the Board of Trustees last Friday on issues including sophomore apartments, new professorships and Trustee-SGA relations. Skelton said he focused his speech on issues most relevant tothe Trustees. “There are many issues the Student Government Association deals with that simply are not very pertinent to the Trustees, so the goal during their visit is to represent the student perspective, but to focus in on issues the Trustees can affect,” Skelton said.

Skelton first expressed concerns relating to campus buildings and grounds, especially the sophomore apartments. “I encouraged the Trustees to prioritize the sophomore apartments in future capital campaigns,” Skelton said. He provided the Trustees with a packet that quoted student complaints about the sophomore apartments. Skelton also explained athletes’ complaints about the apparent need for renovations to the current track.

On the academic front, Skelton focused on student interest in new professorships in the religion department and the self-instructional language program. “The [religion] department has experts in Christianity, Buddhism, Judaism, and Hinduism, but no one primarily specializes in Islam,” said Skelton. “Given the vast importance of Islam throughout the world, the religion department should have an Islamicist.” Skelton also recommended to the Trustees that Davidson establish an Arabic language professorship. He pointed to rising interest in the self-instructional course as an indication of the need for a full-time professor.

Skelton highlighted SGA’s goal to improve communication between SGA and the Board of Trustees. Skelton said he hopes to keep the

See Board, page 2

Beckmann calls for elimination of hunger
By LEXI HAMILTON
News Editor

Bread for the World President David Beckmann lectured on world hunger in Duke Family Performance Hall last Sunday. According to Beckmann, 850 million men, women, and children don’t have enough to eat. “38 million people that live in the U.S. live in food insecure homes,” Beckmann said.

Despite overwhelming numbers of impoverished people around the world, Beckmann stated that he remains hopeful for the future. “All the large nations of the world have confirmed the feasibility of cutting world hunger in half by 2015,” he said. Beckmann encouraged individuals to write their representatives and urge their governments to increase funding for social programs that provide for the poor.

Speaker David Beckmann

“On the domestic side, there are choices to be made that are not easy,” Beckmann said. He referred to appropriating more money for defense and the war on terror as opposed to providing the several billion necessary to realize the Millennium Development goals.

As a minister, Beckmann said that he saw the elimination of hunger and poverty enveloped in a Christian world view. “This is God, this is God moving in our own history [to eradicate poverty and hunger],” he said. “This is God answering prayers.”

Beckmann’s message resonated with Christian students. “He talked about the fact that in order to fully take part in Christian life, we need to realize how to become involved in this history, and that includes making changes for the betterment of all people in our society,” Katherine Hester ’08 said. “As a Christian, I see this as my moral responsibility, because my voice is something that I can use to help others.”

Beckmann holds a Master’s degree in Economics from the London School of Economics and a Master of Divinity degree from Christ Seminary.

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Students question investigative process
PAGE 5

Stray cats to be kicked off campus
see YOWL, PAGE 8

Academic achievement in athletics
see SPORTS, PAGE 12