5 LIVING THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, May 3, 2006

Is that a Rembrandt hiding in your basement?
By AMOURA CARTER
Staff Writer

If you think the bulbous green sculpture near the library represents the extent of Davidson College’s art collection, think again. The basement of the Visual Arts Center contains over 2,700 works of art that belong to the college, including paintings, photographs, prints, books, collages, and a few sculptures. Predominantly composed of etchings, woodcuts, and graphic works, a large portion of this collection rests on expanded metal racks in the VAC’s basement, while other pieces sit in drawers to ensure their preservation. The rarest works, found on the first five metal racks, include pieces by renowned artists like Picasso, Edward Hopper, Stuart Davis, John Singer Sargent, and Rembrandt.

This 1533 engraving by H.L. Master is titled “Christ as a Man of Sorrows.”

Despite these artists’ name recognition and the impressive size of the collection, many Davidson students are unaware of its existence. Brad Thomas, Director and Curator of the collection, and Jessica Cooley ’05, Assistant Curator, hope that will soon change. The two curators, who catalogue and care for the collection from their office in the VAC’s basement, plan to put its top 100 works online for students, faculty, and the Davidson community to view. They hope to complete this database, which will also feature extensive descriptions of each work, in about six months. Currently, they are still in the process of placing these works on a photographed and numbered inventory list.

In the meantime, however, they educate the Davidson community on the extensive collection by giving weekly tours. During these tours, Thomas and Cooley discuss and display some of the collection’s works, which include several pieces by Rembrandt. “Rembrandt was well known in his day and is defined now for his ability to reveal the personal psyche and emotions of individuals through portraiture,” said Thomas. “He is most recognized for group portraits like ‘The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp’ and ‘Night Watch,’ but it is in his smaller self-portraits and portraits of friends and family where he truly reveals his ability to ‘see into the soul’ with profound simplicity and intimacy,” he added.

One of his pieces in the collection features Jan Asselyn, a landscape artist and friend of Rembrandt. In the first edition of the piece, Asselyn is depicted standing by a table covered with his palettes, brushes, and books, in front of the easel where he is painting a scene. “He is clearly concerned with his appearance, donning elegant clothing and lace cuffs, which is perhaps to distract the viewer from his crippled hand,” said Thomas. “In the second state of the etching, Asselyn is silhouetted against a plain background without the easel and painting, which were burnished out of the composition,” said Thomas. “In the third state he finally removed almost all traces of the original composition that were left from the first edition,” added Cooley. The college owns a third edition of the print where lingering traces of the first state can still be seen if closely examined. “Historians are not exactly sure why he decided to remove the easel and painting from the composition, although it may have been to focus attention on Jan Asselyn without the distracting background,” said Cooley.

Both Thomas and Cooley feel very fortunate to have the opportunity to work in the VAC, since it was only a few years ago that the Cunningham building housed the art, theatre, and music departments. Built in 1993, the VAC was designed to keep the historical context and feel of Davidson College from the 1830s. The curators said they feel fortunate to have such an impressive collection with which to work. The majority of it consists of pieces donated by alumni—a practice that started around 1970. Professor of Art Herb Jackson ’67 assisted in the development of the art department and helped create what eventually became Davidson’s vast permanent art collection. Jackson also calculated the department’s budget and catalogued the collection’s artworks long before Thomas and Cooley arrived. “We definitely owe him a lot for the collection,” said Thomas.

Thomas and Cooley hope to further Jackson’s initiative by making students more aware of the collection. Starting next semester, they will hold informal monthly art discussions in the VAC, which will focus around five or six artworks chosen by students. “We want to inform students on what works we have in the art collection and to get fresh insights on what they think of those works,” said Thomas. The curators also plan to create secure display cases to showcase pieces from the collection, possibly in the Union and Chambers. The curators said they believe that students will have a better opportunity to view more of the art pieces this way, since they will be more accessible than where they are currently housed. “We want toelevate visual literacy, so students can really look into a work and discover the discourses between the viewer and art,” said Cooley. Thomas and Cooley welcome anyone with an interest in art to come in for a tour. The framed area of the art collection is open Monday and Tuesday from 3 to 5 p.m. or by appointment. Anyone is welcome to explore the area, but the curators ask that they be contacted to arrange a tour. “We want students to get as much exposure as possible with art, so the extraordinary becomes the ordinary. So that work that jolted students their freshman year can be understood by their senior year,” said Thomas.

After Spring Frolics, students turn to coffee

By ALI KARAMI Ruiz
Staff Writer

“There are three things that I ask myself as soon as I wake up: Am I late for class? Is my final paper due today? And finally, where’s my coffee?” said Chelsea Anderson ’09. Many Davidson students ask themselves similar questions, especially about the whereabouts of the steaming beverage many rely on to jump-start their day. With finals slated to begin this Friday, students like Anderson are likely to start filling up their coffee cups in anticipation of marathon study and paper-writing sessions.

Despite the dependence many students have on the caffeinated beverage, most coffee aficionados are unaware of the origins of their daily drink. “I guess other than knowing it comes from beans, I really just never thought about where the concept of coffee came from,” said Lauren Pierce ’08.

Steven Vetroni, the general manager of Davidson’s Summit Coffee, said that common folklore grounds coffee’s origins in Ethiopia. Legend has it that a local sheepherder saw his herd become more active after they had eaten raw cherries. The herder tried these cherries, which were actually coffee beans, and soon became as energetic as his flock. The small bean eventually arrived in Turkey, which is where the notion of modern coffee arose: The word even entered the English language as a partial derivative of the Turkish word kahve. The first coffeehouse in England was established by a Turkish Jew in 1650.

Davidson’s own Summit Coffee continues the coffeehouse tradition, serving as the supplier for many students’ daily caffeine fix. Summit offers a wide variety of coffee types, which come from Central America, Africa, and the Indo-Pacific. “Coffee is very indicative of the soil it grows in,” explained Vetroni. “For example, coffee from the Indo-Pacific, mainly the Timor and Sulawesi types, are very rich and earthy in flavor.”

“The Arabica grains, which are grown at an altitude of 3,000 feet or higher, offer the best quality in coffee,” he added. In addition to coffee offerings from around the world, Summit also sells organic coffee, which is grown without the use of fertilizers.

Vetroni also discussed the practice of fair trade coffee production that has become popular, especially in Latin American regions. In this exchange, coffee buyers work closely with farmers and pay a higher amount than in the past for their crop, which farmers ensure is of the highest quality through shade-growth and other practices. Shade growing is a process where farmers plant their coffee crop around trees instead of in the more traditional row formation. This makes the coffee growing process more environmentally sustainable. “What we do is inflate the market, so people who grow coffee can have a lifestyle out of it,” Vetroni said.

The most popular type of coffee Summit sells comes from Mexico. “It is sweet, smooth, and mellow; there isn’t anyone who won’t like it,” Vetroni said. For people who like the taste of coffee but not its stimulating effects, decaf is the way to go. This will be a common sight for many students this week. However, Vetroni explained that the vast majority of processes companies use to rid their coffee of caffeine entails the usage of chemicals that are dangerous to the body. One of the more recent processes Summit employs uses carbon dioxide to alter the molecular structure of coffee, which gets rid of the caffeine more effectively and renders the beverage safe for consumption.

While many have a taste for coffee, others rely on other alternatives as a way to energize. “While I don’t like the way coffee tastes, I do appreciate the powers of caffeine. That’s why I drink tea,” said Danny Villareal-Alvarez ’07. “The coffee served in Commons has forced me to convert into a tea drinker,” said Cameron Barr ’09.

Some students do enjoy the coffee from a campus location—the Union Café—and are especially grateful for its availability at late hours. “The coffee in the Union has been my main source of inspiration for any and all work I’ve turned in for the last couple of months,” said Kate Wiseman ’09. “I never was a coffee drinker until I came to college,” said Wiseman, “but now I’m addicted.”