8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘Battle of the Bands’ causes heavy collateral damage
SEE PAGE 3

No winning numbers in this month’s RLO lottery
See Page 5

CoHo farewell dinner poorly attended

New safety gear required for Patterson Court Risk Managers
See Page 10

March Madness vaccine given at Health Center
See Page 12

Recipe for two-page Yowl: add water to one-page Yowl, shake
See Page 14

THE YOWL
Mmm: Bobby Kenner
Jeff Yeakel
Bop: Nathan Bradshaw
Brent McCormick

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editors at bokenner@davidson.edu or jeyeakel@davidson.edu.

Note: The Yowl is the humor section of the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

HUMOR

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

March 22, 2006

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 2006

The Davidsonian

Students ponder existence, second coming of the Outpost

For years, upperclassmen have regaled their younger classmates with stories about a famous late-night restaurant on Patterson Court called “The
Outpost.” The Outpost, which is believed to have been located where the Fiji fraternity house now stands, is described as
similar to the current day Union Café, only it was on the Court, open later and ultimately, much, much cooler.

Myths of the Outpost depict a grand structure built to host a late-night feast. It was where students would gather
late on weekend nights to celebrate and conclude the fraternity events of the evening. Cheeseburgers and quesadillas are said to
have been big enough to feed entire families, and the beer tasted of honey and was served in crystal glasses
with ivory handles.

While most students love to retell the stories about the greatness of The Outpost and hope for its eventual return
to Patterson Court, some have begun to doubt that it ever actually existed. Sam Walsh ’08, the founder of DOH,
Dispel the Outpost Hoax, aims to convince Davidson students that not only was there never an Outpost, but that its
existence is scientifically improbable.

“Everyone says ‘Bring back the Outpost,’ and accept accounts concerning it as fact, but so few people actually reflect on
the absurdity of the very idea,” said Walsh. “The truth is that no valid historical accounts exist describing something similar
to the myth of the Outpost. In fact, every engineer we've brought in agrees that the foundation of the Fiji
house would have been unfit for an establishment as large and grandiose as described by claims about the Outpost.”

Walsh and so-called conspiracy theorists like him are finding that their theories questioning the existence of the Outpost have begun
to accumulate a significant following. He attributes this to a growing demand among the student body for scientific truth and
secular reasoning over myth-based arguments on the basis of faith. The topic has received increased attention thanks to the recent
publication of a scholarly article entitled, “In Search of the Historical Outpost,” by Professor of History Amanda Byrnes. In her
article, Byrnes concludes that while some type of restaurant called the Outpost probably existed, details concerning its location, size, and
hours of operation are likely fabricated.

Bill Riley ’06, a member of Outpost Revivalists for Intelligent Dining, believes accounts of the Outpost are to be taken
literally and that predictions of its reemergence will soon be proven true. “As the Prophecy states, the owner of the
Outpost closed it when students disobeyed His rules about using the bathroom withoutFirst making a purchase, and only He can
bring the Outpost back and free us from the high prices and long lines of the Union Café. My faith
in the Outpost remains as strong as ever, and those who speak its praises will one day be rewarded with
its return,” said Riley. “You doubters of little faith will forever be relegated to the heinous pit of the Wildcat
Den.”

The extremes on either side of the issue have been the most outspoken, but there is still a large portion
of the school that adheres to a more moderate philosophy. Students like Jen Lowry ’07 find it difficult to sift
through all the information that is thrown at them. “I want to believe that there used to be a more
perfect late-night food option for students, and that one day it will return,” said Lowry.

Justice Dialogues group accepts Justice League endorsement

In a move that has created a buzz of controversy across the campus, the Justice Dialogues group has accepted the
endorsement of the Justice League. The Justice League, founded in the early ’70s, is comprised of a diverse body of
self-titled “freedom fighters” whose goal is to secure justice for all people worldwide. “In order to secure justice worldwide, we
often have to enforce its policies in the most remote regions of the earth,” said Justice League member Aquaman. “You’d
be surprised how many critical threats to global justice occur under the water. And that’s where I come in.”

Justice League President Superman commended the Davidson group during last Friday’s endorsement ceremony. “Justice is a concept that is understood
and respected globally,” said Superman. “It is also a concept that we feel deserves both discussion and someone to fight
for it. The students here at Davidson are performing a great service to mankind.”

Justice League treasurer the Green Lantern attended the most recent Justice Dialogue at Davidson, which concerned the topic of free
trade. “Free trade is a pivotal part of a just society,” said the Green Lantern. “It’s hard to have free
trade, though, when you have international terrorists like Braniac or Lex Luthor on the loose.”

Official endorsement from the League entitles the Davidson group to voting privileges at the annual International Justice Conference and weekly
half-hour videos reviewing the current missions in which the League members are involved. Many students on campus, however, are opposed
to the new affiliation with the Justice League. Students and faculty demonstrated outside the Union during Friday’s endorsement ceremony. The
protesters disapproved of the League’s unilateral use of force against potential terrorists instead of diplomatic sanctions. “We are not opposed
to the Justice Dialogues themselves but to their affiliation with the hypocritical Justice League,” said Judith Edwards ’07. “They claim
to support dialogue about justice, but in reality they just use it as a pretext to wage wars for their
own self-serving reasons.”

Others claim the Justice League has ulterior motives. “For example, one of the members, Batman, claims that the Joker is
an irrational terrorist bent on injustice,” said Professor of Political Science Scott Garrett. “In reality, though, Batman wants to take
action against the Joker out of personal revenge because of an attack the Joker had some thugs make against Batman’s
father many years ago.”
