High prices at the bookstore have caused some students to buy books online. College bookstore sees decrease in book sales

By COLLEEN MCKOWN
Senior Staff Writer

Bookstore sales have decreased in the past two years due to rising book prices and the ease of online shopping.
Last year, new book sales were down by almost two percent; this year, they dropped by about four percent. This
year’s used book sales, however, are up eight percent.

New book sales have decreased in part because of student dissatisfaction with prices. Alicia Damodaran ’08 bought about half of
her books online this semester. She shopped online for the first time this semester, following the advice of a professor.
“They were a lot cheaper,” Damodaran said. “I found one [used] book for $1 that was $30 at the bookstore,
and another for $60 that was originally $100.” Damodaran had no trouble getting the correct copies of her books on
time. However, she was not able to find all of the books she needed online.

Brittany Crawford ’08 buys her books from the college bookstore. “If you went to another bookstore like Barnes and Noble,
the prices wouldn’t be that different,” Crawford said. Crawford supports the idea of selling back books. “I think you should
have the option to use the book, and if you don’t write in it or destroy it, you should be
able to return it and get your money back,” Crawford said.

While an increasing number of students now purchase textbooks online, the bookstore manager Gwen Gardner believes that “the volume of
student need nationally is much greater than what the online sites can supply.” Gardner encourages students to find the best
price they can, but believes time constraints and convenience prompt many students to buy their textbooks on campus. “I think
the knowledge that you are getting the correct information when you need it, and the convenience of having all the
titles in one place is worthwhile, and hopefully, the service given here is perceived as good,” Gardner said.

According to Gardner, when shopping online, students may accidentally get an old edition of a textbook. The old edition could
omit needed information or have different page numbers than the new one. In addition, students may have to wait longer
than they expected for a book’s arrival, and they may find it difficult to return books if their schedule changes.
To avoid getting the wrong edition of a title, a student buying online should be sure to order by the
ISBN number, the specific number assigned to each book.

The average cost for books in 2004-2005 ranged from $770 to $870 in colleges nationwide, according to statistics from the
College Board. At Davidson, Gardner estimates that the average per year is around $900. The average cost for a new
textbook is $52.36.

The high cost of textbooks stems from the high cost of production. Publishers must first pay the textbook authors, many
of whom are professors and command higher salaries. Manufacturing costs, which include editing, distribution, storage, and employee salaries, come next.
Promotion costs also increase the price. Finally, any supplemental materials accompanying the book, such as CDs, DVDs, workbooks, or study
guides, add an additional increase to the price of production.

Gardner says that most of the profit margin from the textbook sales gets reabsorbed by operational costs. “Our store uses
the margin to pay for employee salaries, insurance, utilities, postage, and losses from books that can’t be returned to the
suppliers,” Gardner said. “We must also cover fees for credit card use and support other key staff who perform administrative
functions for the bookstore. Any money made above expenses goes back to the general budget of the college.”

“Students will continue to buy online because technology has made the process of connecting students to each other nationally so
much easier,” Gardner said. “I think some students enjoy the search and saving some money, while time and local service
are more important to others.”

Career, from page 2

...will be subsequently notified if they have received an interview from a company. All interviews will take place on February
24 in New York. Upcoming workshops include Ace the Interview on February 9 and Networking for Success on February 14.
There are additional workshops that will target students who are planning to go to graduate school or law school. The
Major Decisions Series is currently taking place for freshmen and sophomores who have yet to declare a major. The meetings
will involve faculty providing the specifics of each...Major as well as alumni speaking about their choice of major. Career Services
has reached out to many students, usually seeing over 50 percent of the freshman and sophomore classes each year. Last
year, the office also saw 56 percent of the junior class and 86 percent of the senior class. Information regarding
workshops and career events can be accessed on eCareers.

News

Bean Bag, from page 1

The whole campus, not just Patterson Court members, could benefit from increased awareness and dialogue. I question whether or not
it is Patterson Court’s image that fosters a need for this or if it is our initial responsibility as the
campus’ social organizations to facilitate the prevention of inappropriate conduct by promoting a certain standard of behavior through awareness discussions.”

According to Patterson Court Advisor Joy Hamm, she only has the authority to make it mandatory for Patterson Court members
to attend the Bean Bag Series. “But there is nothing that would prevent other groups on campus from making it
mandatory for their constituency,” she added.

Students had mixed feelings about the discussion following the “Legally Blonde” showing. “At the end Joy Hamm made us analyze
Elle to an extreme I particularly never really wanted to go,” Mamie Bomar ’09 said. Bomar was uncertain if the
discussion made her more aware of sexual harassment.

Students who join eating houses and fraternities are required by the Patterson Court Standards Program to attend a minimum of
three Bean Bag Series events to fulfill their new member education requirements. The Standards Program serves to support the mission
of Patterson Court, which states that the court organizations have a responsibility to “inform, challenge and prepare its members to
be effective citizens and leaders.” The Bean Bag Series is one means to accomplish this mission. If discussion is effective,
students are able to broaden their perspectives on issues such as sexual orientation, communication, alcohol use, and healthy relationships.

Upperclassmen who coordinate new member education believe that the series also has positive meanings for new members. “I think the
purpose of the Bean Bag Series is to educate the new members about things that can happen at parties and
to be aware of situations that may arise. I enjoyed the movies my freshman year and the discussions afterwards,” said
Connor member Natalie Dennis ’07, who manages freshmen activities for her house.

The program’s long-term effectiveness has yet to be seen, as the series only recently evolved from an overhaul of new
member educational procedures when Hamm took over as PCC advisor in 2003. Former Health Advisor Stephen Gentile ‘06 assisted with
the planning of the inaugural series two years ago. “Initially, we showed movies like “American History X” that clearly brought
up tough issues like race,” Gentile said. “These weren’t movies that were necessarily entertaining in a fun way, but they
prompted better discussion. The point of the series is to educate members because they might face difficult and unfamiliar social
situations as new members of social organizations. The movies shown now might be more engaging, but I’m not sure that
people learn as much.”

Different methods used to communicate core messages to the student body result in varying levels of impact and effectiveness. “Performances
by groups such as 1 in 4 are effective because the message they convey is their explicit purpose,” said Turner
President Meredith Davis ’07. “However, sometimes from other presentations it is harder to see the issue within the choice of
the programming.”

The newness of the program may account for mixed reviews regarding its effectiveness. “It is a new program that is
still being developed to find the best way of getting new members of Patterson Court talking about important issues,” Davis
said.

Applications Invited for the Kemp Scholars Program

The Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs encourages students from the classes of 2007, 2008, and 2009 to
apply for the 2006 Kemp Scholars program! Sponsored by Bank of America, approximately four Kemp Scholars each receive $2,000 in
reimbursable expenses to support independent study, travel, and research plus a cash award of $1,000. Frequently, projects have had an
international focus with the award sponsoring summer travel outside the U.S., however, domestic projects are also welcome. Research topics from
any and all disciplines are eligible. Prof. Mark C. Foley is the current program director and more information, including the
application form, can be found on his webpage through the Department of Economics main page.
