IVINC - THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2006

Union Board announces potential spring act
By ZACK TUROWSKI
Staff Writer

Last week, the Union Board Concert Committee announced its plans for the spring concert, which will be held in April
in the Baker Sports Arena. While no artist has been confirmed, plans have been set in motion to host Bob
Dylan, the students’ number two choice in a campus-wide poll sent out last fall. The committee contacted Dylan with a
generous offer that nearly matched the one made to Dave Matthews for his 2003 performance. Since the fall concert with
Better than Ezra was a charity event, the Union Board had more money to offer for the spring act. It
remains to be seen whether or not Dylan will accept the offer, but Concert Committee Chairperson Erin Doyle ‘08 said
the committee is strongly pursuing him.

“We made the most aggressive offer possible within our means,” said Doyle, “and we will hopefully have an answer before
spring break.”

To develop the list of artists for their polls, the committee used More Music Group, an agency that acts as
both an intermediary between artists and venues as well as a booking agent. The committee then compiles a top ten
list based on the cost of various artists. The committee selected Dylan, the number two artist on the list, because
the number one performer was not touring this spring.

“We had more than 750 students say that they would come to see Bob Dylan,” said Doyle. “Out of 1341
students who responded to the survey, over half the students that responded said they would pay to see him.” Doyle
also said that “this is the highest number of students we have ever had respond saying that they would attend
a campus concert.”

Should he decide to come, the grizzled folk rocker would be a giant generational leap from Davidson’s more recent popular
performers, which include the Black Eyed Peas and Better than Ezra.

Images speak for the actors in Malick’s ‘New World’
By STEVE KALISKI
Senior Staff Writer

Just in case you still trust the advertisements, let me assure you that “The New World” is not a Colin
Farrell movie. In fact, this exuberantly unorthodox epic refuses to rely on any of the qualities often associated with the
Irish actor. Although Farrell receives top billing for his portrayal of John Smith, his standards of egotism, obtrusiveness, glamour, and
noisiness are all absent from the screen. No, “The New World” is not a Colin Farrell movie. Rather, it is
a Terrence Malick movie through and through.

Of course, Malick, who also directed “The Thin Red Line,” does not bear as many popular connotations as Farrell, but
the reclusive director of this meditative, imagistic film nonetheless totes his own bag of controversial tricks. So, from this point
forward, consider yourself warned. If you have any intention of enjoying, respecting, and staying awake during “The New World,” be
aware of what you are getting yourself into. If you walk in expecting a lucid historical study or a bombastic
adventure, you will undoubtedly suffer from confusion and excruciating boredom.

Quiet, deliberate, and visually wondrous, “The New World” depicts the English settlement of Jamestown and the assimilation of Pocahontas, played
by newcomer Q’Orianka Kilcher, with the trust that a picture will speak a thousand words. The film does not approach
drama in a traditional sense; Malick uses very little dialogue, and when the actors do talk, they speak in either
muted tones or in contemplative voiceovers. Instead, the director creates conflicts with his images. Throughout the entire picture, the lush,
muggy naturalness of Native American Virginia challenges the drab, dry artificiality of the English settlers for supremacy.

For example, when Pocahontas’s community exiles her from the tribe and she must find a new home amongst the English,
Kilcher voices very little of her turmoil in shifting universes. However, when we see her first bathing with soap and
squeezing herself into a Western dress, Malick’s images succeed magically in capturing the drama of the situation. In short,The lyrical
and languid New World triumphs as a consistent juxtaposition of visuals. When John Rolfe, played by Christian Bale, returns to
England with Pocahontas by his side, Malick achieves his climactic contrast; here, the young girl raised in the simplicity of
the eastern woodlands must adapt to her own new world of cobblestone and concrete. Kilcher, who was 14 at the
time of filming, is so in sync with Malick’s vision that she creates the film’s only dynamic character. Her shift
from playful tribal youth to wise woman of the world—maybe a coming-of-age, maybe a tragic loss of identity—provides the heartbreaking
core of the story. In a scene at the end of the film, Farrell actually does some of the strongest
work of his career, but Smith disappears from the movie for such long stretches that the character cannot sustain much
sympathy. Similarly, the talented Bale does not make his entrance as Rolfe until the film has already begun its final
act.

Regarding historical accuracy, Malick makes a much nobler attempt than Disney, who cleaned up this complex tale in “Pocahontas” for
the sake of a widespread audience. Malick respects the age difference between Smith and Pocahontas, though he does still tend
toward romance in a relationship that was probably more paternal. If you go to see “The New World,” truly go
to see it. Malick, one of the few auteurs remaining in Hollywood, redefines his medium with every frame. If you
can open yourself up to the new world of Malick’s filmmaking, you probably will enjoy it.

Bob Dylan in his younger days

Doyle said that responses to the student survey support for artists from every genre of music except country. “Our students
enjoy a wide range of musical styles,” she said. “I admire our students for appreciating [Dylan].” While Dylan’s celebrity status
is encouraging to some, there are others who question the feasibility of securing such a renowned performer, especially after the
school was scorned by the likes of Ludacris, Dave Chappelle, and Jon Stewart. James Wells, ’07, is “still not convinced
that announcing Dylan isn’t a cover for the fact that the only act that we can afford who will play
here is Third Eye Blind.”

“I mean, the last several concerts have been awful: Cosby, Derek Trucks, Black Eyed Peas, nobody, Better than Ezra,” said
Wells. “Now ask yourself which act fits with that group better: Dylan or Third Eye Blind?” Third Eye Blind was
only one of the many other performers on the poll sent out to the student body. However, the overall atmosphere
on campus is one of excitement. “If Bob Dylan comes, it will be a culturally enriching experience for the Davidson
community,” said Matt Somers ’07, a member of the jazz ensemble.

As for the disappointing results of the Black Eyed Peas concert, Doyle said that “the drop-off in sales was on
the side of the general public, not the students.” Such a scenario will likely not be a problem with the
legendary Bob Dylan. Regardless, it will be several weeks before the campus finds out whether or not the bid submitted
to Dylan was accepted. The concert will be held in the Belk Arena and tickets will be available for purchase
through the Davidson box office in the Union. Should Dylan decide to come, tickets will be $35 for students and
$45 for the general public.

Pocahontas in Terrence Malick’s epic adventure.

And study abroad means the University Studies Abroad Consortium where you can choose from 25 countries. Come soak up the
vibrant culture and be transformed by the experience. We offer personalized attention from start to finish.
- Summer, semester, and yearlong programs
- Wide range of academic courses
- Internships
- Language courses at all levels
- Field trips and tours
- Small classes
- University credit
- Scholarships
- Housing

A USAC representative may be coming to campus. Visit usac.unr.edu for exact dates and locations.
