THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Delta Sigma Theta makes final sorority presentation

By KATE GILLESPIE
News Editor

Representatives from the historically black sorority Delta Sigma Theta presented their commitment to service and academics at an information session
Monday night.

The sorority was the third Pan-Hellenic organization to share its goals with the campus.

Delta Sigma Theta’s presentation came nearly two weeks after those made by Alpha Kappa Alpha and Zeta Phi Beta.

Chair of the South Atlantic regional nominating committee Pamela Hemphill, however, assured attendees that Delta was committed to coming to
Davidson.

“We did not get the information in writing,” Hemphill said. “We acted as soon as we got the correspondence because
we have a member on campus, and we wanted to support her.”

Hemphill described Delta’s mission as empowering communities through committed service. She stressed, however, that the sorority puts academics first.

“Yes, we do have fun,” Hemphill said.

Other speakers emphasized the sense of community that Delta sisters experience.

“It has been a fabulous growth process,” sister Dawn Calhoun said. “I never had sisters. I had a brother, and
now I have 200,000 sisters.”

The presentation largely focused on Delta’s five main areas of public service activities.

The sorority engages in educational development through Delta Academy and Delta Gems, both of which are aimed at younger girls.
Delta also fosters economic development through workshops and financial development fairs.

The sorority is very involved in political issues. Each February, collegiate members go to the Capitol for Delta Days and
are trained to lobby legislators.

They learn the political process and meet with national political representatives.

See Delta, page 4

Glass
31 pounds
25 pounds
3.4 percent of total

Cardboard
51 bottles
4.2 percent of total

Plastic
27 pounds
3.6 percent of total

Waste Audit Results

The EAC collected a full day’s worth of trash from Dorm Row last Thursday

Number of bags audited: 121
Gross weight of bags: 744 pounds
Recyclable items retrieved:

Carolyn Kiss ‘08 sorts trash at Thursday's waste audit sponsored by the EAC.

Paper
166 pounds
22.3 percent of total

Aluminum
8 steel cans
5 pounds
0.7 percent of total

Miscellaneous
161 items
0.5 percent of total

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2006 3

Senators present student concerns to Trustees

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

The Student Government Association (SGA) spoke with representatives from the Student Life Committee of the Board of Trustees about student
concerns at last Thursday’s meeting.

Committee Chair S. Sherburne Laughlin ’83, Sarah P. Boehmler, M. Erwin Carter ’79, Arthur Ross, III ’65, Katie Belk Morris
and Stuart B. Dorsett ’82, a member of the College Relations Committee, attended the meeting.

Before presentations by senators commenced, President Mac Skelton ’07 clarified that those views presented were the views of individuals and
did not necessarily reflect the opinion of the entire SGA body.

Gagan Gupta ’07, Bill Moore ‘07 and Anders Gustafson ’08 began with a presentation concerning the sophomore apartments.

“Problems have only been temporarily bandaged,” Gupta said.

A packet of emails from current and past residents of the sophomore apartments listed student complaints.

Issues included the thinness of the walls, insect infestations, noise from parties on Patterson Court, problems with the heating and
cooling systems and a lack of community among the residents because of ill-functioning hall design.

“There have been efforts to address these issues,” Gustafson said. “The administration has not ignored them, but now we want
to take it the next step.”

The trustees sympathized with student complaints but also reminded the senators that a complete overhaul of the sophomore apartments would
require significant amounts of money.

“It’s a balance of priorities,” Dorsett said. “There’s never enough funding to do everything. Is this more important than [renovating
the chemistry building] or something else?”

Gupta then discussed the social scene on campus.

“The health of Patterson Court is kind of on the decline,” Gupta said. “Lots of parties and social events are
moving off-campus.”

He pitched the return of the Outpost as a way to improve the atmosphere on Patterson Court.

“On the weekdays, we want to make it like a coffeehouse, creating a place for different groups to mingle,” Gupta
said.

Not all of those present shared Gupta’s viewpoint, however.

“A lot of people I’ve talked to have said that [the perception of the old Outpost] was a myth,” Beaux
Jones ’08 said. “We need to use what we have to bring people together. We have a beautiful infrastructure on
campus, including the Union.”

Laughlin agreed. “The question is: What's missing? What are you trying to fill?” she asked.

A. J. Hergenroeder ’08 then spoke about student stress at Davidson.

He suggested reducing stress by offering course credit for the MCAT preparatory course that juniors in the pre-medical program take,
offering course credit for labs and instituting a policy to limit the number of tests and papers falling due on
the same day.

Others suggested that most of the student stress originates from overcommitment to extracurricular activities.

“People on campus seem to love meetings,” Adam Martin ’06 said. “I don’t know why, but they want to have
five or six per day.”

The trustees offered a different perspective on the issue.

“A part of [maturing] is learning to make choices,” Dorsett said. “At some point, you’re going to have to learn
to say ‘No.’”

Others pointed to the growing use of the Student Counseling Center as a positive signal that students are learning how
better to deal with stress.

“I think that’s a healthy sign,” Ross said.

Before the trustees arrived, Charisma Loney ’08 and Alice Frimpong ’08 thanked SGA for its support of the initiative to
bring a historically black sorority to campus and briefly updated the body concerning the selection process.

Representatives from Alpha Kappa Alpha, Zeta Phi Beta, and Delta Sigma Theta, the three historically black sororities being considered, have
finished making their presentations.

According to Loney, feedback from women who have attended the presentations indicates that Alpha Kappa Alpha is the current favorite.
