10 PERSPECTIVES THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2006

Staff Editorial

Behind the truth

Rumors are inevitable at Davidson College. Whether they concern an administrative decision, a Patterson Court party, or a yet-to-be-published Davidsonian article, rumors spread quickly through our small community. As the principal disseminator of news at this college, The Davidsonian’s job is to report the news as fully as possible. By providing our community with a common body of knowledge, we attempt to minimize the harmful effects of the unrelenting rumor mill.

But reporting the truth is not as simple as it sounds. As pointed out by Bill Kovach and Tom Rosenstiel in The Elements of Journalism, the truth is often hidden behind “misinformation, disinformation, or self-promoting information.” By sorting through the rumors, detecting agenda, and recognizing bias, we at The Davidsonian strive to present the most complete version of the truth.

But the pursuit of truth does not begin and end on our news pages. It is a fluid process that requires action and accountability on the part of the journalists and the readers. A crucial stage of the truth-gathering process is to “let the community react, and the sorting-out process ensue.” By sharing the burden with our readers, the “search for truth becomes a conversation.”

The Davidsonian’s coverage of the historically black sorority initiative last semester is a fine example of this sorting-out process. Our extensive reporting provided our readers with as much context as possible for forming an opinion on this issue. In response, our readers responded with a flurry of letters to the editor. They asked questions, raised concerns, and debated the pros and cons of allowing a historically black sorority on campus.

This week, we ran a story about eating disorders and a piece on the perception that some student organizations exclude members on the basis of race. Though not breaking news, both stories have powerful implications that affect the student body and community at large. With powerful stories come powerful questions. Why are eating disorders so prevalent at Davidson? Does the college offer adequate support for those students with eating disorders? Are student organizations doing enough to create an inclusive environment for people of all races?

Throughout the semester, we will continue to investigate stories that examine underlying problems at Davidson. But we can’t do it without you. You, as readers, must be a part of the sorting-out process. It is up to you to carry on the conversation in the Perspectives pages and beyond.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor-in-Chief
Liz Barry

Managing Editor
Ruchi Turakhia

News Editors
Kate Gillespie, Lexi Hamilton & Jackie McKeon

Perspectives Editors
Halley Aelion & Nathan Bradshaw

Arts & Living Editors
Katie Hunter & Mike Wellman

Yow! Editors
Bobby Kenner & Jeff Yeakel

Sports Editors
Monica Jamouneau & Pierce Trumbo

Photography Editor
Jessica Hodge

Business, Advertising, and Circulation Manager
Sarah Bogue

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Questions on health survey well-addressed

I want to thank The Davidsonian for your recent article, "New Alcohol Statistic Authenticity Questioned," December 7, 2005. I am glad that it was questioned and confirmed. With the terrific response of 590 students and with every class well represented, I have great faith that the results are reliable. It pleases me that the statistics are so provocative and are being discussed passionately. In the end, they are simply numbers, but do reflect on student behaviors of which we should be proud. Watch out for more in the spring semester.

Georgia Ringle, Health Educator

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor. Please e-mail submissions of fewer than 250 words to davidsonian@davidson.edu by Sunday night. We reserve the right to edit for content, brevity, and grammar.

Giving Wal-Mart a second chance

Last December, the progressive community of Davidson—Young Democrats, Just Peace, the Society for the Protection of Indigenous Transgendered Spotted Owls—treated the campus to a showing of the critically acclaimed documentary, “Wal-Mart: The High Cost of Low Price.” The film, hardly a documentary, was intended to be a treat for its audience, placing it alongside Al Franken, Rush Limbaugh, and Fox News in a recent genre of political commentary that might be called “politainment”: analysis of current events not intended to...Persuade, inform, or offer new insights to the audience, but instead to reinforce preconceived worldviews and entertain. Befitting that genre, the film’s attack on Wal-Mart lacks a clear thesis and is instead a shotgun blast of barely related accusations: Wal-Mart impoverishes its workers, drains state social resources, poisons water supplies, allows its customers to be murdered and raped, degrades the fabric of communities, etc. Director Robert Greenwald might as well have mentioned that Wal-Mart sabotaged the levees of New Orleans and fabricated intelligence about Iraq’s WMDs; the film isn’t as interested in making sound and logical arguments as it is in tapping into its audiences’ preexisting vitriol against Wal-Mart, warranted or not. One could dedicate several pages of Perspectives to pointing out the fallacies and logical gaps among the film’s criticisms, but that would be tiresome. Instead, let’s consider the most important issue: do Wal-Mart’s business practices of low prices and low wages worsen the lives of poor, working-class Americans?

The film focuses solely on the meager pay of Wal-Mart employees, totally ignoring the low prices that make life easier for many poor consumers. A recent study found that Wal-Mart shoppers—for many of whom groceries make up a big chunk of their budget—save about $50 billion on food alone. Wal-Mart caters to lower-middle-class consumers with an average income of $35,000 because it offers the discounts that its customers need.

Matt Bandyk

Wal-Mart gets a bad rap, but is it deserved? Greenwald bemoans the loss of “mom and pop” stores, but consider why they went out of business: consumers preferred to shop at Wal-Mart because doing so allows them to save money and enjoy a higher living standard. The Wal-Mart critics’ fetish for mom and pop stores translates to punishment on the wallets of poor people.

The film also contends that much of the problem is Wal-Mart’s failure to unionize. It points to interviews with retail workers in Germany, who cheerfully talk about their long vacations and other benefits guaranteed by unions. What the film leaves out is that the happiness of these workers comes at the expense of many more Germans who cannot find jobs because firms hire less when unions force them to pay more for labor. There’s a reason that the German unemployment rate is 11.6%, more than twice the US rate.

Perhaps it is what Wal-Mart's low-price model represents: a victory for capitalist innovation over the progressives’ ideal of command and control over business. So while it is easy for Greenwald to portray them as being exploited, the treatment of Wal-Mart employees looks a whole lot better when one considers that the alternative is no job at all.

Yet another critique is that Wal-Mart pushes the cost of its low prices on society as a whole by not paying its employees enough to afford health insurance, so that they must turn to public health services, placing burdens on taxpayers. Of course, the film marshals impressive-sounding statistics about how many millions of dollars states lose a year due to this shift. But nowhere does the film place those numbers into any kind of meaningful context that would allow one to see if this tax burden outweighs the countless extra dollars Wal-Mart shoppers have in their pockets due to the store’s low prices. Considering that so many more people shop at Wal-Mart than work there, I think the answer to that question should be obvious. But the film hides that obvious conclusion because it isn’t interested in education.

So why do intelligent people on the Left have so much hatred for a company patronized by so many ordinary Americans? Why are they willing to say whatever it takes to smear it? Perhaps it is what Wal-Mart’s low-price model represents: a victory for capitalist innovation over the progressives’ ideal of command and control over business. More devastatingly, it’s a defeat on the Left’s own traditional pet issue of concern for the impoverished. Wal-Mart’s low prices have done more to benefit lower-class Americans than any recent ideas from the Democratic Party or dailykos.com. So it might be that the “high cost of low price” is the cost of making so-called progressives feel envious.

Matt Bandyk is a senior political science major from Tampa, FL. Contact him at mabandyk@davidson.edu.