THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

The Cunningham Fine Arts Building will be renovated in the next few years.

Campaign to renovate four campus buildings

By KATIE PFEIFFER
Senior Staff Writer

The “Let Learning Be Cherished” campaign involves plans to bring about four major construction projects: Cunningham Fine Arts Building, E.H.
Little Library, Historic Campus, and Martin Science Building. The $272 million project is intended to be near completion after having
undertaken these projects.

“All four of these projects are at step one,” Director of the Physical Plant David Holthouser said. “Further development of
each piece, coupled with answers to funding for each, will eventually yield a sequence of execution.”

After having begun speculation on renovating the Cunningham Fine Arts building, the college must evaluate the level of need for
multiple renovations on campus, as well as the timeline for construction. The Cunningham renovation will employ the same architectural firm
that created the design for the Duke Family Performance Hall and assisted with the Music Department’s transition to Sloan Music
Building. The firm’s experience working with Davidson creates the advantage of knowing the desired design type.

“Because of their familiarity and past work, this will pretty quickly move to a concept drawing,” Holthouser said.

Whereas the Cunningham building used to contain the Theater, Music, and Art departments, the fairly recent construction of the Belk
Visual Arts Center and Sloan have left only the Theater department in need of more space and better facilities. The
building of Duke Performance Hall in 2002 also alleviated some stress on the department.

Recommended changes in E.H. Little Library will include relocating study areas, creating a new aesthetic design, and updating furniture and
use of space. The Chemistry department has begun to search for compatible architectural firms for changes to Martin Science Building.
The first outline that the firm will give the college is supposed to designate the changes that will be made
to labs, offices, and classrooms.

As for Historic Campus, Davidson is in the process of outlining preservation strategies and subjects. The sequence of development for
the four construction projects is based on specifying what type of construction is needed based on a specific space, a
budget outline, sources/extent of funding, an architectural design, and a re-evaluation of price based on that design. The process is
a long one, with many of the new renovations on campus in the past few years having been initiated five
to ten years earlier. Plans for the Duke dormitory and Dean Rusk center renovation began materializing in 2002, which will
result in a finished product in 2007. Chambers building renovations began in 1997 and were completed in 2003. Based on
the precedent set by previous projects, the four remaining projects can be expected to be staggered throughout the next several
years.

All Davidson College Professors, English Majors, and Alums wanting to get back to North Carolina! We have numerous businesses for
sale in the greater Davidson College area, such as an upscale tanning salon, a coffee shop, a franchise truck accessories
store, and more. A perfect business for a Davidsonian, however, is a bookstore with the following features:
- Well-established for over 13 years
- Large inventory of used books (over 40,000!)
- Increasing sales volume over theinternet - Large repeat customer base - Some seller financing available. For more information call
CFC, Inc. at 704-650-6630.

RLO, from page 4

In this year’s current senior class, 80 people live off campus and over 20 seniors live in singles in Tomlinson
and Duke. Next year, there will also be 38 spaces in college-owned off-campus houses and 32 spaces in the new
townhomes. Rising senior Elizabeth Burkholder ’07 is frustrated that she might not get to live in Martin Court. “Living in
senior apartments is something I’ve looked forward to for three years,” Burkholder said. “Senior year is all about bonding with
your class and missing that just because I have a bad lottery number is a disappointment. I realize there is
only so much RLO can do, but I’ve had trouble with housing after coming back from abroad this year, and
I feel like they could do more to avoid these types of situations.”

After looking at the numbers, Marsicano said seniors do not necessarily need to worry about not getting their desired housing.
“I think the people who are really going to get squeezed in housing next year are sophomores, not seniors,” Marsicano
said. She cites the reduced availability of singles and gives sophomores slim chances of getting singles. Marsicano urged students to
consider the new townhomes. While they have double rooms, they will be brand new and will have two-and-a-half baths and
a large amount of parking. Marsicano fears students think they are farther away than they really are. They will be
accessible off Ridge Road, by the intramural fields.

Once the renovations to Duke are complete, RLO will not use college-owned off-campus housing for students. Instead, the townhomes will
be sold to faculty and staff. Duke currently accommodates 63 students, but after construction, the dorm will provide rooms for
100 students. After the large rising senior class graduates, housing will be in better shape. “RLO still has goals of
improving the quality of housing,” Marsicano said. There are also several new developments regarding partnerships between RLO and departments on
campus to increase services in residence halls.

Next year, the laundry will provide pick-up and drop-off service to college-owned houses and townhomes. On Mondays and Thursdays, students
can leave dirty laundry on their porches and a van from the laundry service will pick it up and drop
it off once it is clean. The ResNet office will also be relocating to the third floor of Tomlinson. The
new location will be more central to students. Information Technology Services (ITS) will also be installing computers in the lounges
of Knox, Irwin, and Akers.

Do you know how your senator voted on the renewal of the Patriot Act? THINK ABOUT IT. TALK ABOUT IT.
Just Peace Wednesdays 4:30 Union room 313.
