“2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Shepard, from page 1

same tax benefits that heterosexual couples enjoy and accused many politicians of trying to write discrimination against gays into the Constitution.

“The point of the Constitution was to protect the minority from the majority. And now we’re protecting the majority from the minority,” Shepard said.

Shepard said that Wyoming is one of the four states in the U.S. that lacks hate crime legislation.

Judy Shepard spoke on Monday night.

She said that a lack of diversity in Wyoming, which is 96 percent white, has led people to believe that diversity will never affect them.

“If we don’t understand the diversity of the world, we will be stuck and left behind,” Shepard said.

To increase the awareness of diversity in all states, Shepard listed five steps for students to follow: registering to vote, researching politicians and their platforms, voting, becoming an educated constituent, and discussing issues.

For Shepard, the final step is the most important.

According to Shepard, not until citizens discuss with one another their life experiences and needs can politicians and voters make informed decisions at the polls.

“There aren't enough words to express how much I love and miss him... He was my son. My firstborn and more. My friend. My confidant... I will never understand why anyone would want to hurt Matt, to act with such cruelty.” - Judy Shepard

In the question and answer portion of her lecture, Shepard addressed a variety of concerns.

Some questions applied to the Davidson community at large, including ways to increase discussion on campus.

Other questions were more personal, including ways that transgender teens can find support.

Shepard remained available after the lecture to answer additional questions and concerns.

Shepard concluded her speech with a short anecdote in which a grandfather explains to his grandson that each person has within them two wolves. One wolf represents qualities such as anger, grief, guilt, and ego while the other represents humility, empathy, and compassion.

The grandfather claims that the two wolves are in constant battle, but the wolf that wins is the wolf that the person feeds.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 2006

Chocolate Cake for Charity

P.S., the student-run restaurant, held its first ball from 9 a.m.-1 p.m. last Friday in Vail Commons. All proceeds from ticket sales went to the Free Clinic of Our Towns.

Top: Katie Busch ‘09 prepares hors d’oeuvres for the ball.
Bottom: Students dance to the music.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

4/21/06 Tomlinson Dormitory Alcohol Violation

Officer heard voices and music typical of party noise coming from a room with a partially open door in Tomlinson Dormitory. The officer saw a table set up for a drinking game and numerous people in the room. He stepped into the room and several subjects immediately left through the bathroom into the adjoining room. The officer checked the second room and saw several containers of alcohol. While the officer was attempting to contain the people in both rooms, approximately six to 12 people fled and only six people were able to be secured. In one of the rooms, there were several empty beer cans; a half-full half-gallon bottle of Jim Beam; four bottles of wine, two of which were unopened; a full bottle of gin; a nearly full bottle of rum; and six unopened beer cans. At the officer’s direction, one of the room’s residents poured all the contents down the bathroom sink. In the other room, there was a 4’x8’ piece of plywood supported by chairs that had been hand-painted into a drinking game table with circles drawn for the placement of the cups. The officer recognized the table as the same one he observed being carried into the room on Feb. 24. The officer had stopped the carriers and warned them that it was in their best interest to return the table. The officer identified the subjects, all of whom were polite and cooperative.

4/16/06 Sentelle Dormitory Suspicious Person

An officer was dispatched to Sentelle Dormitory in reference to a dark-skinned male wearing an orange t-shirt, khaki shorts, and no shoes walking around the first floor of Sentelle Dormitory. Upon arriving at Sentelle, the officer observed the subject in the laundry parking lot. The officer spoke with the subject, who advised that he was visiting his son who lives in Sentelle Dorm.

4/17/06 Glasgow Street Illegal Activity

Officer received a call from two students reporting that they had invited a friend to their room. The friend asked if he could bring his cousin with him, and the students said he could. The students said that during the visit, a gun fell out of the cousin’s pocket and the cousin asked the students if they wanted to sell some marijuana. The cousin had been trespassed from campus earlier in the month for suspected larceny.

4/19/06 Satellite Parking Lot Damage to Property

Officer spoke with a student in reference to the driver’s side of her 2000 Oldsmobile Intrigue being keyed while it was parked in the Upper Satellite Lot. The student said she only made the report for record-keeping purposes and will not be pursuing charges.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety