**ARTs & Service Spotlight: Does it take more?**

By KATIE HUNTER  
Arts & Living Editor

What is service? Is it enough to write a check or swipe a CatCard for a cause? Or does “giving back” mean hammering that nail or tutoring a child ourselves? These questions confront Davidson students on a regular basis. Whether through encounters with fraternity members promoting a charity event or emails from eager volunteer coordinators for programs like Habitat for Humanity, it is common to hear the call to a service-related activity while on campus.

According to the Community Service Office, an estimated 90 percent of students respond to these appeals while at Davidson, seemingly in keeping with the college’s mission statement of “developing humane instincts and disciplined and creative minds for lives of leadership and service.” How, though, does one truly define “service?” The Community Service Office categorizes all types of students’ community contributions under a “spectrum of service,” which includes activities like philanthropy, charity, and volunteerism. Recognized service activities range from going on a “mission trip” to building houses, writing a check to Habitat for Humanity, or even “lobbying in Congress for housing issues.”

While each type of activity falls under the broad definition of service, each one also differs vastly in the amounts of time, money, and energy. “In my opinion, one service isn’t better than another,” said Bonner Scholar and Community Service Fellow Katie Lipsett ’05. Some Davidson students, however, would disagree. Whitney White ’08 sees a major difference between raising money for a cause and actually contributing one’s time and effort to support it. 

“With fundraising, you can write a check and never think about the personal experience,” she said. “With service, you come face to face with the person to whom you are giving your time.” Amanda Brown ’08 agreed about the importance of personal contributions to service. “It’s good to give money, but it’s also questionable, because it seems like an easy way out,” she said. “If you’re just swiping a CatCard, I would question whether you’re open to changing yourself or your opinions,” added Laura Boston ’06.

Lauren Woodall ’08, however, recognizes the practical aspect of monetary donations. “Materials are definitely needed for many service projects,” she said, “and without money to buy those supplies, it would be impossible.” “Service without money is difficult,” added Chris Burton ’08. Burton, who characterized his own approach toward service as an attempt to strike a balance between contributions of both money and time, admitted “being a college student has made it hard to give a lot of money.”

“In college, though, I’ve cultivated the desire for giving my time to serve, which I can add to by giving money in the future,” Burton said. While it might be easy to make a case for money’s place in the world of service, is it really “service” when someone opens his or her pocketbook? Recent visiting lecturer Dr. Rick Halperin, the current Chair of the Board of Directors of Amnesty International USA, considers giving money to be “a service.” He defined the actual action of service, however, much more distinctly. “True service, to me, is someone giving of their time, passion, talents, and energy to get involved at a personal level with an organization and people for a particular cause,” he said.

Davidson students, however, understand the challenges of making such time commitments. “I think most people are involved in so many activities that giving more time is hard,” said Trisha Brooks ’08, one of Turner House’s Service Chairs. Sometimes giving just a little time, in addition to money, can become a segue into more engaging types of service like volunteerism. “Some people come to CROP lunch and donate money, but then they are also likely to return and hear more about it, since it is likely to tug at their heart. The next time, they might be the one setting up CROP lunch, which makes their service more active,” said Lipsett.

Students embrace the physical side of service by building a cinder...block house. 

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 2006

More than dollars to make change? White sees this coupling of active service and fundraising as one of the best aspects of “Engage for Change,” a series of events sponsored by several campus organizations that intends to raise awareness on hunger and homelessness. “I like Engage for Change because it combines service and fundraising,” she said, “so students really get a lot out of it.” Despite one’s definition of service, students agree on the importance of education and action when it comes to a cause, whether or not it involves giving one’s time, money, or both. “I think there’s a strength in people becoming educated and experiencing something firsthand. We do need resources to address community needs; some of those are financial, and some aren’t,” said Will Perrault ’06. “Overall, it’s exciting to see anyone serving at any level,” said Lipsett. “That’s what excites me about coming to work each day.”

Corner: Woody Allen, comedic genius

“Bananas,” one of Allen’s early films, relies mainly on slapstick humor and an abundance of one-liners for its appeal. The plot follows an off-the-wall consumer products tester, ironically named Allen, who falls in love with a political activist named Nancy. Rejected by her for his lack of leadership qualities, Allen, through a twist of fate, ends up in San Marcos, a fictional banana republic. He eventually winds up the leader of a group of revolutionaries. Allen takes on the persona of a Fidel Castro-like leader and blunders through a political uprising, finally achieving his goal of winning the heart of his beloved Nancy. Overall, “Bananas” is a funny, fast-moving film with little redeeming quality as far as social context and deeper meaning go. It doesn’t seem to have any serious statement to make. The film, however, is still funny for the sake of being funny. Scenes like those featuring Allen’s transformation into a revolutionary make “Bananas” a film that is still enjoyable to watch.

One of Allen’s most famous films, “Annie Hall” won several Oscars, even beating out “Star Wars” for Best Picture honors in 1977. A charming film that set a benchmark for modern romantic comedies, “Annie Hall” incorporates many of Allen’s trademark styles with innovative filmmaking. Allen himself stars as the dark, intelligent comedian Alvy Singer, who has a strong fixation with death. A young Mia Farrow plays gangly, ditsy Annie Hall, a Westerner who truly loves life. While the two draw the audience into their romance, their differences inevitably drive them apart. Allen lets their story unfold in a testament to the madness inherent in relationships. A remarkably funny film, “Annie Hall” transcends slapstick humor by examining the deeper questions about relationships and love. Allen’s filmmaking reaches its peak with “Annie Hall,” in which he showcases innovation through the use of subtitles that show the audience what the couple is actually thinking. This film will surely be remembered as one of Allen’s best works.

A more recent release, Allen’s “The Curse of the Jade Scorpion” follows an insurance investigator on the tail of a major jewel thief who somehow knows the agency’s security protocols well enough to rob it undetected. The film begins when Allen, a security agent, and his boss, played by Helen Hunt, are hypnotized at an office party. While under the spell, the two are unable to take their eyes off each other and end up nearly declaring their love for one another. While in this trance, they also end up carrying out the same crimes they themselves are supposed to be investigating, which makes for an interesting series of events. The film is humorous in its off-beat production style and appealing in the chemistry it generates between the characters. Allen’s comedic writing talent remains intact throughout the gags and even includes several of his trademark one-liners. While many of Allen’s more recent films don’t have the charm of his older works, “The Curse of the Jade Scorpion” is an exception.