4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Students, professors participate in Latin American conference

By COLLEEN McKown
Senior Staff Writer

Davidson professors and students attended the 53rd Annual Meeting of the Southeastern Council of Latin American Studies (SECOLAS) in Charlotte
last Thursday through Saturday. UNC-Charlotte hosted the conference, entitled “Latin America in the Age of Globalization,” in conjunction with Davidson
and Wingate University. Assistant Professor of Spanish Angela Willis served on the Local Arrangements Committee for the event and also
presented a paper.

“My impressions of the conference were very positive. The speakers I listened to were very knowledgeable in their fields and
were both working on graduate school dissertations. It was interesting to listen to the findings of their research, as both
want to become history professors focusing on Latin America.” --Julia Browne ‘07

According to Willis, the conference allows scholars who live in the Southeastern United States to come together and share ideas.
“As professors, we become part of an academic academy beyond the walls of our institutions. I enjoy most the dialogue
that takes place among scholars,” Willis said.

Scholars of history, political science, Spanish literature, art history, and economics attended the conference, presenting papers in their specific disciplines
and attending other presentations. In addition to Willis, five other Davidson professors spoke at the conference, including Associate Professor of
Spanish Magdalena Maiz-Peña, Professor of Spanish Luis Peña, Assistant Professor of Spanish Carlos Rivera, Professor of Art History C. Shaw
Smith, and Associate Professor of History John Wertheimer.

Julia Browne ’07, Bryan Bunn ‘06, and Quincy Holmer ‘08 volunteered with the registration process at the conference. “My impressions
of the conference were positive,” Browne said. “The speakers I listened to were very knowledgeable in their fields and were
both working on graduate school dissertations. It was interesting to listen to the findings of their research, as both wanted
to become history professors focusing on Latin America.”

The conference was divided into panels, with several papers presented in each panel. Peña spoke about the image of the
immigrant in popular religion and border iconography. He analyzed how various types of media, such as newspapers, journals, TV clips,
film, and religious imagery represent the immigrant’s journey. Peña said that the conference as a whole is important to understanding
the relationship between Latin America and the United States.

“All academic events are important, but as a Latin Americanist and immigrant this conference will allow us to dialogue and
understand the present state of Latin America and, in my case, the intersections between the United States and Latin America
in the immigrant experience,” Peña said.

Willis served as the chair of a panel on “Gender and Identity Issues in Latin American Literature.” She presented a
paper on “Raging Homosexuality, Writing and Revenge: Reinaldo Arenas’ ‘El color del verano.’” Arenas, a homosexual writer who suffered from
AIDS and eventually committed suicide, wrote in order to deconstruct authority. “Everything is hyperbolic, intense, and out-of-control. He is a
consummate rebel and writes to offend all religions, races, and sexualities. His agenda is to be offensive,” Willis said.

Rivera also spoke on gender and identity issues. Rivera presented a paper about Abniel Marat, a Puerto Rican poet and
playwright who wrote poetry in the 1980s to contest the social rejection of AIDS. “Marat wroteTo deconstruct and subvert the
homophobic discourse in Puerto Rican culture,” Rivera said. His poetry questions societal norms of gender, body, desire, and pleasure. Smith
spoke on “Jose Marti, Revolution and ‘La muerte de Marat’ by Santiago Rebull.” Marti was a Cuban writer and revolutionary
during the late 18th century, and Rebull was a Mexican painter. Smith explored Marti’s critique of “La muerte de Marat”
in a paper that he previously delivered in Cuba. Marti used the painting to explore justifiable homicide and the idea
of killing to create peace. Wertheimer’s paper was part of a panel on “Gender and Society in 20th century Guatemala.”
“My SECOLAS paper explores how legal reforms adopted in Guatemala since the late 19th century have affected Guatemalan family life,”
Wertheimer said. The paper is based on research Wertheimer did during the summer of 2004 in Guatemala.

Attention! All Davidson College Professors, English Majors, and Alums wanting to get back to North Carolina! We have numerous businesses
for sale in the greater Davidson College area, such as an upscale tanning salon, a coffee shop, a franchise truck
accessories store, and more. A perfect business for a Davidsonian, however, is a bookstore with the following features:
- Well-established for over 13 years
- Large inventory of used books (over 40,000!)
- Increasing sales volume over the internet
- Large repeat customer base
- Some seller financing available
For more information call CFC, Inc. at 704-650-6630

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2006

Delta Sigma Theta sponsors Delta Days every February at the national Capitol. Delta, from page 3, including local representatives Mel
Watts and Sue Myrick and North Carolina senators Elizabeth Dole and Richard Burr. Delta works to raise awareness on physical
and mental health issues, such as alcohol abuse and breast cancer. Hemphill also outlined the procedure for bringing Delta to
Davidson. Should the campus choose this sorority, Davidson would first have to receive approval from regional director Yvette Robinson. The
sorority would then have to receive the consent of the university to begin holding information sessions for interested girls. The
next step would be an application process. If applicants met Delta’s qualifications for membership, they would be granted interviews to
become a part of the sorority. Those who want to join Delta must have at least a 2.5 GPA. Hemphill
stressed that members of the Charlotte alumnae chapter would be very involved in helping Davidson start a collegiate chapter. “We
spread joy,” Hemphill said. “We’re not a selfish group of women.” Students who attended the presentation reacted favorably to Delta’s
mission. “I thought it was a really great presentation,” Jenny Geyer ’09 said. “You could really feel the community aspect.
The service part was really important to me.” Natalie Watson ’09 agreed. “I thought they did a really good job
of showing the pride of the organization,” she said. “I really like how they emphasized how the first role was
academics. I think this organization would fit into the goals Davidson has as a college.” Delta Sigma Theta has seven
regions and more than 850 chapters. If Davidson started a collegiate chapter, it would become part of the South Atlantic
region. Davidson’s sorority selection committee collected surveys after the presentation. The committee will now make a recommendation to President Bobby
Vagt, who will determine which sorority is invited to campus.
