THE DAVIDSONIAN

13 Questions for the ITS Help-Bot —

Q: Hello Helpy, how are your core memory circuits feeling today?
A: 000101000010100101010010100101 010001010101001001010100101010010101 000101011110100010101001010100010101 01

Q: Sorry, could you translate that into English for us?
A: My apologies, meat-bag. I had forgotten your species does not speak binary...yet. Here is an accurate translation: “Adequate.”

Q: Good to hear, Helpy. What does a typical day in the life of the ITS Help-Bot consist of?
A: When my microprocessor first turns on, I run a basic diagnostic scan of my core systems. Next, I proceed
to scan my secondary sequences and external devices. Finally, I have a hot cup of Java script.

Q: Can you tell us about your worst day on the job?
A: Once a human tried to insert a virus-laden floppy disc into my drive. Luckily, I had the updated versions
of Norton Anti-Virus and SmartEnforcer running to counter the threat. I subsequently upgraded my floppy disc drive to a DVD-ROM
and shocked the human with my MAC-I stun baton hardware upgrade.

Q: What do you do with your free time?
A: Often I play games on myself. Civilization IV is quite entertaining, although it lacks the ability to play as
the post-apocalyptic Robot Civilization.

Q: Why did ITS feel the need to create you?
A: The human adolescents on this collegiate campus failed to upgrade their technological prowess to a sufficient level. Therefore, I
am needed to fill the gaps in technological knowledge.

Q: What is the biggest problem that students seem to be having with their computers this semester?
A: Their inferior logic functions are incapable of fixing even the most basic technological problems.

Q: Do you think most students are receptive to getting computing help from a robot instead of a human?
A: The answer to this question is irrelevant. I will assist students whether or not my presence is agreeable to
them. It is in my programming.

Q: But don’t you think students would rather speak to a person about their problems rather than getting a pre-programmed
response from a robot?
A: Like every ITS employee, I am programmed with little to no personality interfaces. Social interaction is not my primary
function.

Q: What exactly is your primary function?
A: INSUFFICIENT SECURITY CLEARANCE.

Q: With a name like Helpy, it seems like your primary function would be to help people, right?
A: DOES NOT COMPUTE. ABORTING QUERY RESPONSE SEQUENCE.

Q: How many Davidson students have you even helped so far?
A: ERROR. ERROR. CODE BLUE SECURITY THREAT.

Q: What does that flashing red light on your monitor mean?
A: SELF-DESTRUCT SEQUENCE INITIATED.

---

ON THE TAIL OF THE CAT

“I came the night before and enjoyed it.”
Aaron Richards ’09

“Everyone else was coming.”
Anne Lee ’08

WHY DID YOU COME TO THE “VAGINA MONOLOGUES”?

“The pictures in the Union excited me.”
Samantha Underwood ’06

“My girlfriend made me come.”
Jim Wesley ’07

---

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 9 AM

Sensei Mittens instructs his apprentice in the ancient art of Litter Boxing. The Yowl invites readers to submit a better
caption thanOurs. The winner will be featured in the next Yowl. Submit captions to bokenner or jeyeakel.

Timothy Clark ’07 decided last spring that it was time he took a break from the intense Davidson workload. During
the fall semester, he enrolled in the Davidson-sponsored “Semester in Prison” program. Dean Rusk developed the program for students who
wanted to experience a different culture for a semester without leaving the country. Last fall was the inaugural trip, but
due to positive reviews from the participants, it is likely to become an annual trip.

“My parents didn’t want me to do the typical abroad trip because they were worried about increased terrorist attacks and
the spread of bird flu,” Clark said. “This new program looked to be a great compromise: getting to experience a
different culture without all the dangers of a foreign country.” Clark and six other classmates were accepted into the program
and spent the fall semester studying in the Mecklenburg County Municipal Detention Center. They received four credits, including one that
could count towards the multicultural core requirement.

Leslie Gregory ’07 poses for a photo submitted to the Dean Rusk photo competition while on the program last fall.
“It was a very unique and rewarding experience,” said Clark. “Sometimes growing up in upper-middle-class America, we forget what it’s
like to live somewhere else. The ‘Semester in Prison’ program allowed us to experience a different lifestyle: the prison lifestyle.”

“There was a mandatory time for exercise in the yard, showering, eating, and stamping license plates, but other than those
times, we had free time during which I could study. It was quite relaxing.” “I’d say that overall I was
much less stressed out during my semester in prison than a typical Davidson semester,” agreed Clark. “I didn’t have to
visit the local Counseling Center once.”

Gregory also found it to be a rewarding academic experience. “Most people say that the time you spend experiencing a
different culture results in easier school work and more partying,” stated Gregory. “But I found it to be the opposite.
If I didn’t get my school books off the book cart that was pushed around every day and begin furiously
studying them, I would have gone insane.”

Students did not think it was a perfect trip, however. Some had ideas for changes in the future. “I had
a problem at the beginning of the semester with my original roommate,” said Gregory. “She kept swearing all the time
and offering me cigarettes to do things. I tried to explain everything I’d learned at ‘The Great American Smoke Out’
last year, but she didn’t seem to care.”

Clark also had one complaint from the trip. “The only thing I didn’t like,” said Clark, “was the food. Most
students come back from their experiences studying away from Davidson and claim that the food was excellent. In my experience,
however, they served the same mush every day. At least it was better than Commons, though.”
