12. THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2006

WEEK IN REVIEW

THE WEEK AHEAD

Trumbo's Picks of the Week

Wildcat Game of the Week
Today, 7 p.m.
Men’s Basketball vs. UNC-G

Western Carolina snapped the ’Cats 19-game home winning streak. The team will look to start another in their game against
UNC-G. The game is important in the ’Cats attempt to...

“The Bus’ last stop is here in Detroit”

There were a lot of people trying to talk, a lot of action on the round platform hastily constructed on
Ford Field. The Vince Lombardi trophy was hoisted in the air by many sets of hands, but oddly, the man
to get the most applause was not the coach of the winning team and not the MVP. It was The
Bus, the hometown hero, whose last professional game fittingly took place where, for him, it all began.

Jerome Abram Bettis was born February 16, 1972, in Detroit, Michigan. At Detroit Mackenzie High School, he stood out as
both a linebacker and a running back and was named top player in the state by the Detroit Free Press.
When he left Michigan to attend Notre Dame, he had 337 rushing attempts and garnered almost 2,000 yards rushing. In
his last game as a Fighting Irishman, his team overtook Texas A&M in the Cotton Bowl. He went from there
to be selected as a first-round draft pick for the Rams in 1993 and was named Offensive Rookie of the
Year. A trade to the Steelers in 1996, called the “Trade of the Decade” by some, proved advantageous to his
performance, and in his career in the NFL, he was named to the Pro Bowl six times and is fifth
on the National Football League’s all-time rushing list. He played pro ball for 13 years, a baker’s dozen, but if
it weren’t for Ben Roethlisberger, he wouldn’t have finished up in Detroit, and his dozen would have been a plain
old 12.

“It’s been an incredible ride,” said Bettis after Sunday’s game. “I played this game to win a championship. I’m a
champion, and I think the Bus’ last stop is here in Detroit.”

The Bus had planned to retire in 2005, although his last game would have been a Steeler loss in the
AFC championship, not exactly a satisfying end. So, secretly, Ben promised Bettis that if he hung around another season, he’d
get a ring. The rest is history. The team—and the media—found out about their deal after the Steelers defeated the
Bengals and got their wildcard win. But the road to the big game wasn’t easy—the running back almost cost Pittsburgh
the chance to make it to the Super Bowl when he fumbled against the Colts in the playoffs. Luckily, Roethlisberger
stepped in to make the tackle, and Indianapolis missed a field goal attempt. After the game, he mouthed to his
parents in the crowd, “We’re going home.” Incidentally, his parents have attended each and every one of the games Bettis
has ever played in the U.S. (They didn’t make the two games he had in Japan and Mexico.)

Analysts have guessed that 80 to 90 percent of the fans in Detroit this weekend were rooting for the Steelers.
Anyone who saw the game or glimpsed highlights would have been able to distinguish the thousands of Terrible Towels waving
in all their glory in the stands. The yellow towel, an “instrument with which Steelers fans had flogged their team
to victories,” certainly worked in Pittsburgh’s favor. After the Steelers marched victorious off the field and Bettis announced his unsurprising
retirement decision, Detroit gave him a standing ovation. He received the key to the city of Detroit, the first person
to be considered worthy of that mark of distinction since Bill Clinton nearly 30 years ago. A parade was held
in Pittsburgh yesterday to honor the return of the new champions. Lynn Swann, a former Steelers star and Republican candidate
for governor of Pennsylvania, was there in a presentation of former Super Bowl MVPs, and Hines Ward was presented as
the newest member of that elite group.

Now that Bettis is through with football, there will be a big hole in the Steeler offense. Willie Parker, who
took in a 75-yard touchdown in Sunday’s play, is the most likely back to fill in for The Bus. The
run was the longest from scrimmage in the history of the Super Bowl, enough to set a record, and gave
Pittsburgh a huge lead at 14-3. Parker is new to the game, with two years of professional football under his
belt since he played at UNC. His play won’t make him an immediate star, but The Bus left big cleats
to fill.

As a retiree, Jerome Bettis plans to take it easy, bowl, continue “The Jerome Bettis Show” (a Pittsburgh television program
hosted by the Steeler) and work with his charity, “The Bus Stops Here Foundation,” which assists troubled and underprivileged children.
Also, there have been rumors that he intends to own a chicken farm somewhere in the greater Detroit area. Immediate
plans may also include taking a vacation with Hines Ward, who announced during a commercial that, “I’m going to Disney
World, and I’m taking The Bus.” Whatever road he decides to take, there is no doubt that at some point
he’ll...End up in Canton, Ohio, where he can take his place as a hall of famer and hero to all.

Money, not basketball, wins in NBA
By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Senior Staff Writer

Sometimes people have really irritating habits. My editor is one of them. Whenever he talks about basketball—which is a lot
of the time—he has to bring up the Jazz. The Jazz this, the Jazz that. John Stockton was a great
player, I grant him that one all the time. But the fact is that no, I repeat, no NBA team
since the era of Larry Bird has been worth watching.

Yes, if you tune in you will see Kobe drop 81, you will see A.I. with his 50 tattoos and
just as many crossovers, you will see Yao being really, really tall. You will see any number of individual athletes
with a great deal of talent out there. Two things you will not see: any group of five players consistently
playing as a team or any individual playing by the rules of basketball. Teamwork, for all intents and purposes, is
dead in the NBA.

Steve Nash currently leads the league in assists with 11 per game. Not bad, Steve. You get your highlights on
ESPN from time to time, but I have a question for you: in 20 years, will people remember you as
one of the top 10 players from your era? Not at the rate things are going. Bryant, Iverson, Carter, Billups,
James, Marbury, O’Neal, Garnett, McGrady, and Anthony probably all have you beat. You will not join the likes of Magic
Johnson and Isaiah Thomas, both of whom averaged over 11 assists per game in 1984. You will be overshadowed by
your contemporaries who average 25 and 30 points a game to your not even 20 this year.

I love Nash’s brand of basketball. It focuses on one thing: scoring more points than the other team. Kobe Bryant’s
brand of basketball focuses on something similar, yet markedly different. He focuses on scoring more points than all of the
other players on the court, including his teammates. Kobe’s assists per game? Four point three, currently. Not so much about
sharing the ball.

So, Bryant is a selfish player. Not a problem, really. The problem is that the NBA caters to his style
of play. Twenty-four second clock: how many passes can you make in 24 seconds? Zone defense: how many dunks can
you throw down against a good old-fashioned 2-1-2? The answer to both questions is “not many.”

The fact is, the NBA is about making money. People pay money to watch slam dunks. They do not pay
money to watch a well-executed play that involves two screens, five passes, and an eventual open shot. So, to nudge
the game in that direction, the NBA has rules, like the 1954-instituted 24-second clock, to keep the offense fast and
the scores high. The BAA (NBA’s predecessor) made zone defense illegal in 1946. It stayed that way until 2001, when
a straitjacketed version of a zone became legal again. The principle that remains intact from the idea of forced man-to-man
defense, however, is that the game centers more on individual matchups, on which single player is better than which single
defender, than on which team can play better. The NBA Championship does nothing to determine which is the best team
in the league. It determines which franchise has purchased the best players.

I still have not so much as touched the biggest dance trend of the last 15 years, which I commonly
call “the NBA three-step.” Seriously, if you put college jerseys on those drug-abusing, womanizing celebrities out there, the referees might
have the nerve to call switching pivot feet not once, but twice, a travel. The rule I learned in kindergarten
was that you had to keep one foot in the same spot if you picked up your dribble. The rule
as called in professional ball is that you have to keep one foot in the same gymnasium, but as long
as you tomahawk it, you’re golden. Offensive pushoffs, defensive hacking, hand-checks, and carries all have similar stories. If it looks
cool, it’s not illegal.

Basketball is about the paying customer, right? It has nothing to do with the purity of a game, with honest
sportsmanship, with a fair contest of teamwork. It has everything to do with the man who, while he did not
start this revolution, certainly was the Stalin who made it all come together: No. 23. Here, my editor and I
agree. Game Six of the 1997 Championship: Jordan pushed Russell to hit the last shot. I’d say the game has
not been the same since, but the fact is, it was already MJ’s entertainment-ball by then.

Basketball’s refuge is college, and even that is looking more like a spectacle and less like a sport as time
passes. I have a sinking feeling that when I am 60 years old and want to watch a good game
of roundball, my only option will be to drop in on my high school and catch the JV game.
