8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘U for Vagina’ theatrical program a SUCCESS
SEE PAGE 3

Bob Dylan cancels, says ‘Who can follow fifroman?’
See Page 5

Commons TU continues to show ESPN
Competition grows for student’s outdoor apple stand
See Page 10

Local homeless man poses as college tour guide
See Page 12

Student poll finds ‘Blackboard’ racially exclusive
See Page 14

THE YOWL

The Order:
Bobby Kenner
Jeff Yeakel

The Disorder:
Nathan Bra
Brent McCormi

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editors at bokenner@davidson.edu or jeyeakel@davidson.edu.

Note: The Yowl is the humor section of the Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER
March 29, 2006

Davidsonian Theater department placed on academic probation

Last Sunday, the theater department was placed on academic probation and kicked off campus until the beginning of the Fall 2007 semester. The suspension was due to the department’s failure to abide by college rules regarding the deadline for play rehearsals. The department held rehearsals a full week past the school’s imposed deadline.

“The school’s policy regarding play rehearsal is very clear,” said Associate Dean of Students Lisa Mertz. “Play rehearsal is not to continue after the designated play rehearsal-week. Play rehearsal is a time-consuming event, especially for new freshmen and can significantly hinder academic pursuits.”

The mother of one of the freshman students who joined the play tipped off the administration to the illegal rehearsals. The student told his mother about the many difficult and time-consuming scenes he was forced to rehearse for the play. The mother was concerned that her son was failing as a result.

The students were rehearsing the play ‘Karma Alphabets,’ which explored themes of divine justice and language. It involved several stressful and time-consuming scenes. One scene involved a long swim in Lake Norman. Another scene involved the forced drinking of fraternity pledges.

“One of the most stressful scenes involved several members of the play hurling hard objects at other play members’ heads,” said cast member Byron Kingston ’07.

Although no one from the theater department denied that rehearsal went on after the school-imposed deadline, some question the stringency of the school’s response.

“I don’t see what the big deal is,” said Ned Branchwood ’08. “So what if we rehearsed after the play was over? Everyone wanted to keep rehearsing. We were really starting to bond, and no one cared that it was such a big time commitment.”

Other members of the theater department have accused the administration of using unethical methods to extract information about play rehearsals from newly declared theater majors.

“All departments go beyond school deadlines. Singling out the theater department like this is ridiculous, and it’s unfair to all the theater majors who have put in so much time,” said Theater Professor Brent Carter.

“The real losers here, of course, are the theater majors,” said Sarah Ronk ’06. “Not only did the students have to go through all that extra play rehearsal, but now they don’t even get credit for it.”They'll have to find a new major and spend all that time to accrue enough credits to complete that major if they want to have a degree.”

Sophomore to begin accepting roommate applications

With the housing lottery just around the corner, Danny Williams ’08 announced to inquiring friends and acquaintances that he will be accepting roommate applications for next year. Williams, who has the best lottery number in the sophomore class, is seeking a roommate based on applicant traits like dorm preference, lifestyle habits, and the size of his DVD collection. Applicants with girlfriends or who plan on going abroad will be disqualified immediately.

“Basically, if you want the chance to live in some of the most desirable rooms on campus, you’re going to have to go through me,” said Williams. “I have the best lottery number, and I am a pretty cool guy to live with, so I knew that competition for my roommate services would be intense. I decided on an application process because it should keep the process orderly and avoid a mad rush. Also, it preserves my right to pick the best roommate available.”

Williams’ roommate application is a 49-page document that calls for responses in true/false, multiple choice, and short essay formats. Questions range from favorite types of music and movies to more personal queries regarding showering habits and views on being sexiled. Williams believes the length of the application will help to deter less serious candidates.

“Right now I’m spending most of my time grading DVD collections because I’ve really gotten sick of most of my own movies,” said Williams. “I’ve also asked applicants to include a list of titles that they promise to buy should they be selected as my future roommate, and I’ve found those lists to be especially intriguing. But I’d say the most important part of the application is the peer evaluation from current roommates.”

While Williams says that most of his friends understand that his application process is the most fair and democratic way to decide who gets to live with him next year, current roommate Barry Kent ’08 resents the fact that Williams is forcing him to apply along with the rest of the applicant pool.

“I’ve lived with Danny for two years, and I just assumed that we would continue living together next year, especially considering neither of us are going abroad,” said Kent. “But suddenly he got this great lottery number and he emails me and about 60 other people this enormous Word document questionnaire. When I figured out what it was, I just couldn’t believe it.”

Despite his protest, Williams has not yet disqualified Kent, whose lottery number happens to be one of the worst in his class, as a candidate. In fact, Williams says that their prior relationship as roommates would factor favorably into his assessment of Kent’s application, to the extent that status as a Davidson College legacy would factor into admission.

As the deadline for applications approaches, Williams expects to begin to make cuts and interview prospective roommate finalists on an individual basis.

“I’m looking forward to the interviews,” said Williams. “It gives me the opportunity to get a more personal idea of who the applicants are and, in the event that I am already friends with the applicant, the chance to hold the power of my high lottery number over them.”