4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

WEDNESDAY, May 3, 2006

Alumnus appointed press secretary

BY JACKIE MCKEON
News Editor

President Bush appointed Davidson alumnus and Fox News commentator Tony Snow '77 to the position of White House press secretary last week.

Snow replaced former press secretary Scott McClellan.

In his new position, Snow will be responsible for providing the press with information regarding the Bush administration’s policies and activities.

Though considered a conservative, the international news media has emphasized Snow’s willingness to criticize President Bush.

According to “The Economist,” Snow has called President Bush a “dime-store Democrat” who speaks like “a soul tortured with Tourette’s.”

Snow was equally opinionated while studying at Davidson.

He majored in philosophy and was considered to be an exceptional student by many of his professors.

Snow was elected senior class president and served as a hall counselor.

Snow won many awards and distinctions, including the Vereen Bell Creative Writing Award and a filmmaking award. He was elected to the Omicron Delta Kappa leadership honor society, the Delta Sigma Rho honor society for debate, and “Who’s Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities.”

Snow was awarded the Alumnus Award in 2002.

After graduation, Snow briefly taught at a school in Kenya before accepting a job with the North Carolina state government as a spokesperson for the disabled.

Distinguished

Press secretary Tony Snow ’77 spoke at Davidson in 2002 for his 25th reunion.

Following this position, Snow attended the University of Chicago and studied economics and philosophy during the 1978 to 1979 academic year.

Snow landed his first job in journalism at the “Greensboro Record.”

He then wrote editorials and ran the editorial pages for “The Virginian-Pilot,” “The Daily Press of Newport News,” and “The Washington Times.”

Snow’s articles appeared in over 200 newspapers while he was a nationally syndicated columnist from 1993 to 2000.

Snow became involved in broadcast journalism after serving as a guest commentator on the Fox News show “Off the Record.”

In 1996, he became the host of the “FOX News Sunday” program.

After leaving the Sunday morning show, Snow hosted “The Tony Snow Show” on FOX News Radio.

Snow also frequently filled in for Rush Limbaugh and Bill O’Reilly.

His work in journalism has been recognized by the Associated Press, Gannett, and the Society for Professional Journalists.

In addition to his extensive involvement in journalism, Snow also has experience inside the White House.

Snow served as Director of Speechwriting and Deputy Assistant to the President for Media Affairs under the first President Bush.

BE A LEADER AMONG LEADERS

With your bachelor’s degree, you can become an Army Officer and be a leader among leaders. In Officer Candidate School (OCS), you'll learn management and leadership techniques. Apply now. Openings are limited.

>> Call Sgt. 1st Class Powers at 563-0560 to find out about college loan repayment and more Army benefits.

FREE RETREAT FOR RISING SOPHOMORES!

VOCATIONAL VERNGO

AUGUST 16-19, in the North Carolina Mountains

Sophomore year is full of critical choices and life changes, sometimes that “in-between place” where adjusting to the present meets preparing for the future.

Often, it’s a year of searching for direction, purpose, and balance. Questions can be many: What will my major be? Will I study abroad? Will I choose an internship or service or other work experiences? What part do I play in the community or in the world?

This free retreat provides an opportunity for students to explore these questions through a variety of experiences including workshops, arts, and an experience of different religious practices. Activities include white water rafting, workshops, worship from different traditions, and small group discussions.

FOR MORE INFORMATION:
call x 2084 or email lotimberman

Sponsored by the Lilly Programs for the Theological Exploration of Vocation.
http://www2.davidson.edu/studentlife/carvoc/theo/soph.asp#vv_soph