2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Co-ed, from page 1

Blake brought up the many divisions that currently exist within the Davidson community, including black/white, gay/straight, and men/women. According to
Blake, gender divisions are reinforced through fraternities and eating houses and can often be seen in single-sex groups dining in
Commons.

“Having a co-ed housing option would tremendously help the GLBTQ (Gay Lesbian Bisexual Transsexual Questioning) community feel more comfortable on
campus.” --Richmond Blake ‘09

“Having a co-ed living option would educate students and help to end misconceptions between the sexes,” Blake said. Blake brought
up the idea of co-ed housing at the Trustee meeting last Friday. “They were not bothered by the idea, though
they did ask a lot of questions. I had the impression that they would like to hear a formal proposal
from RLO about the specifics, like bathrooms,” Blake said.

The Trustees are particularly concerned about bathrooms because, when they agreed to co-ed dorms fifteen years ago, it was agreed
that the sexes would not share bathrooms. Marsicano anticipates that should co-ed housing become an option, it would be implemented
in Tomlinson. Bathrooms would be less of an issue in Tomlinson, as well as in Martin Court. The Tomlinson pods
have two bathrooms for eight people and the bathrooms in Martin Court are split up so that residents could cohabitate
in a less intrusive manner. In addition, the layouts of these residences allow students to share living space while also
having separate bedrooms.

“Co-ed living would not be for freshmen and would not be in every building,” Marsicano said.

Co-ed housing is an option at many of Davidson’s peer institutions. Both Duke and UNC Chapel Hill have a co-ed
living option, as do other schools to which Davidson is commonly compared. Co-ed halls constitute the majority of housing at
other liberal arts schools such as Middlebury College. There are also housing rules that allow cohabitation in suites.

SGA members voiced concerns to the Board of Trustees at Thursday’s meeting.

Board, from page 1

Skelton proposed that a different committee of the Trustees attend the SGA meeting each of the three times it visits
the campus per year. “There are many issues that the Student Government Association deals with that simply are not very
pertinent to the Trustees, so the goal during their visit is to represent the student perspective, but to focus in
on issues the trustees can affect.” --Mac Skelton ‘07

Other plans to improve dialogue include re-establishing SGA’s former commitment of having each senator correspond with a trustee. Skelton also
plans on creating a monthly electronic newsletter to update Trustees about SGA business and raise other issues.

The speech also addressed positive student reactions to the Trustees’ efforts. He relayed student satisfaction with renovations and with the
capping of student loans. Skelton encouraged the Trustees to continue efforts to promote an ethnically diverse campus through hiring minority
faculty members and making the curriculum more ethnically sensitive.

Skelton also informed the Trustees about future SGA initiatives, including increasing student body understanding of college traditions. For example, Skelton
hopes to collaborate with the Chaplain’s office and other relevant entities to involve students in discussion about the college Statement
of Purpose in the coming year.

“Last year during the debate over non-Christians on the board, the meaning of the Statement of Purpose was heavily discussed
among the trustees. Unfortunately, that discussion did not reach the students to a great extent. Some students have expressed confusion
as to the statement’s meaning and so I think it is vital that the college makes a concerted effort to
answer those questions,” Skelton said.

In addition to campus issues and goals, Skelton mentioned recent achievements. Skelton discussed the Engage for Change program and its
coordinated efforts for hunger and homelessness relief among different campus organizations. “Engage for Change is proof that SGA and other
campus organizations should focus on collaborative efforts if they desire substantive results.”“Change,” he said. Skelton also discussed SGA’s restructuring of
the Diversity Coordinating Committee to bring about greater minority representation on SGA. Skelton said he felt the Trustees were receptive
to his presentation. “Trustees want to hear the student voice,” he said.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2006

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

4/7/06 Chambers Lawn - Illegal Possession
An officer observed a white male and a white female sitting on Chambers lawn smoking a hookah. The officer informed
them that hookahs are not allowed on campus. The officer confiscated the hookah and informed the students that they could
retrieve their property at the end of the school year.

4/7/06 Lake Campus - Vice Complaint
An officer conducting a foot patrol at the Lake Campus observed a group of students on the floating dock at
the rear of the floating boathouse. Several of the students were fishing from the dock of a pontoon boat moored
there. The officer saw two cardboard 24-can beer containers, numerous empty beer cans, and an empty beer bottle on the
boathouse walkway. Several of the students were drinking from beer cans. The officer asked for identification and advised the group
that the Lake Campus was alcohol-free. The students were polite, apologetic, and cooperative and stated that they were unaware that
the Lake Campus was alcohol-free. While collecting identification, the officer dropped a student’s driver’s license, and it bounded off the
deck and sank out of sight before it could be retrieved. The officer will reimburse the student for the cost
of another license.

4/9/06 Faculty Drive - Suspicious Vehicle
An officer received a call regarding a white Ford Crown Victoria that had circled campus several times. The officer made
contact with the driver, who said he was on campus to pick up a prospective student. The student was in
the vehicle.

4/9/06 Ecological Preserve - Property Damage
Campus Police received an email from a professor stating that someone had been driving an automobile on the walking trail
and had wrecked their vehicle in a sharp curve sometime between Mar. 25 and 26. The wreck occurred in the
ecological preserve and completely destroyed an owl nest and a bluebird nest. The suspect had left the scene following the
collision. An officer observed a dark 2004 Chevrolet Trailblazer with extensive damage to the front and right side in the
greenhouse parking lot on Mar. 26, but the damage to the ecological preserve was not reported until Mar. 30, so
the officer only made notes about the vehicle. After the professor reported the damage, Campus Police informed him of the
suspect, and the professor brought a piece of grill from a 2004 Trailblazer (a sticker inside the piece identified the
vehicle) to the police department. Officers located the owner of the vehicle and left him a voicemail message asking him
to contact Campus Police. The subject did not respond, so the officer sent him an email. The subject was out
of town, but arranged a meeting with Campus Police, at which the subject gave the officer a complete and accurate
account of the events. The subject said he did not realize there was any damage to anything other than his
vehicle and did not report it. The subject agreed to contact the professor to volunteer to repair any damage he
had caused.

4/9/06 Phi Hall - Underage Drinking
During a zone check of Eu and Phi Halls, an officer heard voices and observed several females sitting on the
second-floor porch of Phi Hall. The officer observed one of the females take a drink from what appeared to be
a large wine or liquor bottle. The officer walked up to the porch and observed three female students smoking pipes
with a nearly-empty bottle of Gazela wine between them. A silver corkscrew was next to the bottle. The students said
they were celebrating the 20th birthday of one of the group. The officer asked for identification and found that all
three were under 21 years of age. All three were polite and cooperative.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety

Last Thursday’s Pig Pickin’ event raised $2,500 for Loaves and Fishes.
