THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2006 = 11

Liberals: get real

The less than impressive turnout at the recent anti-war “March of Discontent” has probably left some of the student body feeling a little guilty. There are a lot more students unhappy with Bush Administration policies than the handful that showed up at the march, yet most of them found sleeping in preferable to expressing their minds. If you’re one of the guilty ones, I’d like to clear your conscience.

Since the sixties generation, the progressive movement has been obsessed by the idea that creating social change requires not just thinking globally, but also acting locally. We see this impulse frequently on college campuses. Maybe not too often at Davidson, but at UNC apparently you can’t cross a sidewalk without running into some kind of demonstration, picket line or “kumbaya” rendition. But here’s the uncomfortable truth: sleeping out on the Chambers lawn doesn’t help the homeless. Flashing a peace sign on Main Street won’t bring back the troops. Quite the opposite. If the Left wants to stop being the electoral equivalent of Wile E. Coyote, they need a lot less action and a lot more thought.

Do you see conservatives “taking to the streets” to protest the latest liberal atrocity? Aside from a few abortion clinic wackos, conservatives feel more comfortable on the Wall Street Journal opinion page than at a rally. And therein lies their strength. The focus of the conservative movement in the latter 20th century has been one of political thought rather than activism. Practically all the Republican movers and shakers were schooled in the philosophy of Russell Kirk and Milton Friedman, either directly or through magazines like National Review. They became adherents of a fairly unified worldview that translated into simple dictums like “government is the problem, not the solution.” Having already made up their minds, the Right didn’t have to march to convince others, but could instead focus on fundraising and lobbying; practices that actually have an impact in Washington.

It’s hard to find any such cohesion on the American Left. Sure, there are a few examples of required reading for any young progressive, such as Noam Chomsky or Howard Zinn. But these authors focus more on pointing out specific outrages than on worldviews. Their disciples have followed this example. They each adopt a pet issue and then try to promote “awareness” of that issue. If you’re a progressive activist you probably also have a more specific identity: environmentalist, union supporter, animal rights activist, anti-warrior, etc. Certainly overlap occurs frequently, but if you compare the organizational structure of the Right to that of the Left, the difference becomes clear: the former is spearheaded by think tanks like the Heritage Foundation and the American Enterprise Institute that all cover a broad range of issues. The latter is splintered into issue groups like the Sierra Club, AFL-CIO, the ACLU, the Brady Campaign, etc.

This diffusion has two impacts that have turned the Left into the underdog of American politics. First, it hindered Democrats from building an overarching message like the one that has proven invaluable for Republican success. Pollsters found again and again after recent Democratic congressional losses that the problem was that Democrats were the party “without a face” that voters could recognize. Second, single-issue activism in practice means marches and sit-ins. These tend to be therapeutic to those who already agree with the cause, but alienating to everyone else. The point that protesting need not be “radical” is a very reasonable one. Unfortunately, reality isn’t always reasonable. Regardless of how protesters should be perceived, the stereotype of the Che-shirt-wearing yuppie activist has allowed Republicans to turn “liberal” into a dirty word that evokes Michael Moore rather than mainstream America.

Democrats could take back their values if they grounded their outrage with a real intellectual movement. But you cannot start an intellectual movement if you are more concerned with freeing Mumia or saving the whales. Those familiar with my political leanings may find me an untrustworthy source of advice for the Left. But no matter my ideological bias, I’m rooting for the Left to rebound and present a serious opposition to “conservative” dominance, and so should everyone else. Control of all three branches of U.S. government has made the power-mad Republicans care less about implementing conservative ideas and more about rewarding buddies with shady dealings. Some electoral victories by Democrats just might be the shot in the arm Republicans need to stop selling out and start governing.

Matt Bandyk ’06 is a political science major from FL. Contact him at mabandyk@davidson.edu.

Leak shows partisan idea of ‘truth’

By Luci Hague
Guest Columnist

No wonder members of the Bush administration did all they could to stonewall Patrick Fitzgerald in his investigation of the Valerie Plame mess. Last week’s revelation of President Bush’s involvement raises tremendous questions of the President’s purported ability to put national security above partisan politics. Although the entire affair has become increasingly muddled, one thing is clear: intelligence shouldn’t be manipulated to fit a radical partisan agenda.

If the president did order the declassification of information related to Ms. Plame, his actions were, strictly speaking, legal. But it’s clear that his credibility is shot. Bush has repeatedly castigated both those who leak sensitive information and the media, on the grounds that leaks are detrimental to national security and hurt the US effort in Iraq. By his logic, information should be declassified only if it appears to help his partisan positions. Information that hurts his party should stay secret, and woe to those who would rather have a more transparent government.

Bush claimed that he ordered information to be declassified because he “wanted people to see the truth.” Unfortunately, he seems to have conflated truth with politics. He certainly didn’t want people to see the truth about overseas prisons or the domestic wiretapping affair. It is becoming increasingly difficult to believe that he really knows how to protect the country; lately, he’s clearly been more focusedon protecting himself and his rationale for the war in Iraq. The administration has repeatedly demonstrated a frightening willingness to play fast and loose with the truth. Blatant attempts to manipulate facts to fit a particular position go far beyond efforts to regain support for the war in Iraq. From the FDA’s refusal to make the “morning-after pill” available without a prescription, to misinformation about condoms and sex education on government websites, the American people have few reasons to trust the President’s judgment. I’ll agree with Mr. Bush on one point: the American people should know the truth. But we shouldn’t be spoon-fed his preferred version of the facts. He should have realized long before his approval rating dropped to 38% that he cannot successfully construct and maintain an alternative reality. He should have realized that there would be serious ramifications if he denounced people who leak classified information, but pushed to declassify information in support of his politics. It’s also hard to imagine that “moral values” were a huge part of why President Bush won in 2004. Bush has let America down.

What happened to the Republican Party? Between the systemic corruption of Tom Delay and Jack Abramoff, the huge deficit, and the Bush administration’s stubborn drive to advance its neoconservative agenda no matter how high the cost, it’s hard to imagine how things could get any worse. It’s also hard to imagine that “moral values” were a huge part of why President Bush won in 2004. Bush has let America down. The Democrats need to step up and prove that they can keep the country secure without infringing on civil freedoms. But in the short term, we need answers about Plame and a national conversation on how the President can best go about regaining America’s trust. I want a leader I can support. I don’t want a leader who claims that if I don’t support him or her, then I am anti-American. The President still has over two years left in office. He'll have many opportunities to show whether or not he actually cares about the citizens who elected him. And, although I’d bet money that he will continue to stubbornly refuse to change course in Iraq and at home, I’m still holding out hope that he will see the truth.

Luci Hague ’08 is a Russian major from Silver Spring, Md. Contact her at luhague@davidson.edu.

---

Time to broaden Davidson’s horizons

The Davidson College experience is not a cheap one. Over four years of study here, Davidson students pay dearly with their time, their energy, and, at some points, their peace of mind. But recently, there’s been good news for Davidson students and their parents alike when it comes to the cost of a Davidson College education. Administration at our college recently announced a new policy that will cap student loans at a total of $12,000 over four years of study. As far as how to use our institution’s money and endowment gifts, I think this is an extremely laudable decision on the part of the school.

Halley’s Comment
HALLEY AELION

However, what hopefully will result from this resolution on the part of the college administration is an increase in diversity and innovation on campus. No, we will not have an impressive new building or field or laboratory to show for future generations because of this financial course of action. However, what hopefully will result from this administrative resolution is an increase in diversity and innovation on campus. Capping student loans at $12,000 instead of the previous cap of $19,000 will make the Davidson experience a viable financial possibility for unknown numbers of prospective students. By making the admissions process and its promise of financial aid more welcoming to more people, our college is effectively inviting students from more diverse socio-economic backgrounds to take part in campus life. Although it may not be politically correct to acknowledge that lines drawn between socio-economic classes can, and often times do, directly parallel lines drawn between different races, ethnicities and even religions, this parallel is a frustrating reality which I think the new college policy addresses well. With this approach at limiting post-graduate debt to any and all students receiving financial aid, the college has managed to sidestep delicate and bothersome issues of “affirmative action” and alleged “reverse racism” to create a situation beneficial to all students in need.

However, this cap on student loans is not the only thing the college has done recently to address issues of cost on campus. The college furthermore dedicated the time, money and energy to direct a Let Learning be Cherished campaign focused solely on making Davidson a more “affordable” experience; an effort that is praiseworthy in itself. So Davidson is taking all the right steps. Now we just have to see if they work. Hopefully, these new funding policies will go where they are deserved and needed: to students that maybe do not fit into the stereotypical Davidson image and can bring something new and exciting to campus culture. This type of diversity can only strengthen what we already have here and make the college experience more dynamic and intellectually challenging and stimulating. Of course, these changes cannot happen all at once; in fact it will be a while, if ever, before any tangible difference becomes evident when looking at our student population. Davidson College is an institution full of tradition, and a radical change of face is not in our near future. I can only hope that donors and patrons of the college will not only support this attempt on the part of the college, but even contribute to it in donating to other programs designed to help students who are eligible for financial aid. However, most great change is gradual. Regardless of immediate consequences or outside support, I hope the administration stays dedicated to this praiseworthy initiative with the knowledge that they are improving our campus more profoundly than a new computer lab ever could.

Halley Aelion ’08 is a French major from Bowie, Md. Contact her at haaelion@davidson.edu.