4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Counselors, addresses concerns

By Emily Kota
Senior Staff Writer

Fall 2007 housing plans are currently underway for Davidson students. The Residence Life Office (RLO) is busy with the upcoming housing lottery, residence hall improvements and renovations, and a shortage of female hall counselors.

RLO recently began advertising to attract applicants for two remaining female hall counselor positions.

This year’s applicant pool was very competitive, and a second round of recruitment is not uncommon.

“This year is very similar to previous years. In five out of the last six years, we have had a second phase of recruiting for hall counselors, although the gender has been different in some of those years.”
--Leslie Marsicano, Director of Residence Life

“This year is very similar to previous years,” Director of Residence Life and Associate Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano said. “In five out of the last six years, we have had a second phase of recruiting for hall counselors, although the gender has been different in some of those years.”

Christie Brough ’07, a current hall counselor, praised the program.

“It has been the most amazing experience. I’ve gotten to know a bunch of different people that I would not have met otherwise. I would highly recommend becoming a hall counselor,” Brough said.

In contrast, the applicant pool for resident advisors was unusually large this year. Although Marsicano regretted having to turn away so many qualified applicants, she still hopes these students will consider applying for hall counselor positions as juniors next year.

This past week, RLO held a mandatory meeting for students interested in getting permission to live off campus next year.

“I was blown away by the number of people at the meeting,” Marsicano said.

She estimated that over 200 students attended, indicating increased interest in living off campus next year.

While she does expect to give more off-campus permission than normal for the upcoming year, Marsicano fears some students may be stuck paying two rents if they sign a lease for off-campus housing before receiving permission from the college.

“Don’t sign a lease until you have off-campus permission in hand,” Marsicano said.

Davidson is designed as a residential college and as a result, Marsicano explained that students cannot live off campus if it creates a vacancy on campus.

The lottery for senior housing is also approaching quickly.

The rising senior class is larger than normal, with 461 students, and there are only 342 spaces in Martin Court.

See RLO, page 5

ON UNIVERSITY

SCHOOL OF LAW

Opening in Greensboro — August 2006

Now accepting applications for the charter class.

Website: law.elon.edu for complete information and online application

Toll free: (888) ELON-LAW E-mail: law@elon.edu

CREATING A NATIONAL MODEL OF ENGAGED LEARNING IN LEGAL EDUCATION

- Emphases on total student development, exceptional legal knowledge and skills, leadership and civic involvement, and international study
- Learning experiences in the area's leading law firms, federal and state courts
- Home of the North Carolina Business Court, which handles business litigation in the school’s courtroom and facilities
- Partner with the American Judicature Society's Institute of Forensic Science and Public Policy, a new national organization located near the law school

NEWS
RLO recruits more female hall counselors

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 2006

Davidson’s College Bowl team will compete at the National Championship in May.

Bowl, from page 1

can have a shot at playing for Davidson. All they have to do is find a few friends, pick a team name and sign up for our tournament.”

The team holds tryouts for members after the campus-wide tournament held in the fall.

“We keep statistics on every single participant, and the best players in that tournament will get an invitation to try out for the varsity team,” Gibert said. “From that group we pick the eight people we’re allowed to have on the varsity team.”

Gibert also believes that support from the Davidson community influences the team’s performance at tournaments.

“Davidson professors — full professors — moderate matches and help out with practice,” Gibert said. “If I were the coach at, say, Harvard, I probably wouldn’t have a hope of getting a full professor to participate in something like this. From what I hear, a lot of teachers at other schools just think that College Bowl is some silly trivia game. Davidson professors think it’s fun and interesting.”

Registrar and professor of German and Humanities Hansford Epes and Nancy and Erwin Maddrey Professor and Chair of Psychology Ruth Ault are among the professors who have helped the team.

Director of the College Union William Brown and Quinton McKissick from RLO also helped organize the campus-wide tournament in the fall.

Compeau believes Gibert is the reason that Davidson has such a high-caliber team.

“I think that our coach, Dr. James Gibert, does an impeccable job of preparing us, in finding slews and slews of questions, statistically analyzing our opponents, and motivating us exceptionally well,” Compeau said. “He organizes one of the largest intramural tournaments that College Bowl schools will ever see, despite us being the smallest school to be represented at the national competition.”

The team will continue their 90-minute practices twice a week to prepare for the national tournament.

Sarah Carlson, MD

Family Medicine
Our mission at Davidson Family Medicine is to provide comprehensive, personalized health care in a respectful, caring environment. Our services include gynecology/women’s healthcare, travel medical assessments with vaccines, pediatrics, and male health care. We are located beside the Post Office and behind the Soda Shop at 104 Knox Court

Davidson Class ‘82
www.DavidsonFamilyMedicine.com

Craig White, MD