THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2006

CCRL votes to increase impromptu party limit

The Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) met in December to review a section of the alcohol policy that limits Patterson Court to two registered impromptu parties per week. The alcohol policy characterizes a registered party as one attended by over 30 students and requires that a risk manager be present at these parties.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon (SAE) President Dave McManama ’06 approached CCRL about the existing policy because he believed it was creating tension among fraternities and eating houses. “After the alcohol policy change last year, more houses have been registering parties instead of holding impromptus in an attempt to comply with the tighter rules,” McManama said. “Ironically, this year, as houses try harder and harder to obey the rules, they are punished by the registration limit that did not affect houses holding impromptus.”

McManama proposed that CCRL vote to abolish the impromptu limit completely. “The limit has created a weird rat race as houses rush each week to register their party first,” McManama said. “The result is unnecessary tension, which exacerbates tension already there during the fall rush semester. In addition, as houses are denied parties, they are forced off campus.”

Some CCRL members, including SGA president Ryan Arnold ’06, supported McManama’s effort to eliminate the two-party rule. “Going into the meeting, I was concerned with the frequent competition amongst fra-”

See CCRL, page 4

Eating, from page 1

that it is much easier to hide or deny having an eating disorder at college than at home. Friends at school may be unaware of the problem or feel uncomfortable approaching that friend with concerns. Annie stresses that students struggling with an eating disorder need “very open friends who are willing to push them when they need to but also understand when it’s a struggle.”

Yet Hannah believes that students at Davidson with an eating disorder cannot rely solely on their friends but must also seek treatment at the Counseling Center. “While your friends want to help you, they have a lot of other stuff to do,” Hannah said. “They’re not equipped to help you. With an eating disorder, it becomes more of an everyday thing, an every minute thing.”

According to Dr. Samson, who specializes in eating disorders, the Counseling and Health Centers offer individual therapy and medical treatment, including monitoring vital levels and taking bloodwork, for students with eating disorders. Theresa Logan, Davidson’s nutritionist, also works with students to help them develop healthy eating habits. The Counseling Center refers patients who need more than ten free counseling sessions to outside facilities.

According to Dr. Samson, treatment also varies with patients according to how severe their eating disorder is, how long they’ve struggled with it, where they are in their treatment and other life stresses, such as family, friends, and academics.

A student struggling with an eating disorder at Davidson can also receive support from the Dean of Students Office, which, in severe cases, can authorize a withdrawal from Davidson or a reduced course load for a student. Such measures are rare, however, because the college requires that these requests be initiated by the student’s treating doctor and supported by a diagnosis and rationale from a mental health professional.

“One thing that’s really helpful to students is sitting down and working with me to map out the requirements for the semester,” said Associate Dean of Students Kathy Bray-Merrell, who works with students who are having academic problems due to health issues. “Sometimes developing a plan for the work can diminish the feelings of anxiety or ‘I can’t get this done.’”

Another option that now exists for students battling an eating disorder is a student-led, anonymous support group, which began meeting last Wednesday. A student who was in therapy at the Counseling Center for an eating disorder approached counselor Brelonda Walker with the idea for the support group, and advertisements began appearing in the Crier at the end of last semester.

“A senior level student who suffers from an eating disorder herself came into therapy, and she was absolutely astonished when I told her that she was not the only one who was suffering,” Walker said. “She felt relieved and was excited about getting to know these other individuals.”

Although the support group educates members about eating disorders and allows them to share their experiences, Walker stresses that it is non-therapeutic and that a counselor will not always be present at the meetings. Walker makes the initial contact with students interested inparticipating, but it is up to group members to choose the topics, meeting time, and place. The nature of the support group has caused some concern that it may do more harm than good for some group members. “I went for direction to my supervisor Dr. Staton and asked him about the potential for harm,” Walker said. “We felt if there were some kind of supervisional assistance, we could kind of monitor those who are having serious issues.” Because of the concern that members may become competitive or that the group's conversation may inadvertently trigger unhealthy thoughts for some individuals, Walker requires participants in the group to keep a journal in which they reflect on the topics discussed at each meeting. She will read and comment on these journals and approach students who seem unable to identify the purpose of the group for that week. Walker believes, however, that the student-led support group is the best way the Counseling Center can utilize its resources to provide support to students. So many students expressed interest in being a part of the support group that at one point Walker thought that there would have to be two groups. Other efforts are being made on campus to foster support for students who are struggling with eating disorders. Changing Minds sponsored A Freedom for the Faces last November, in which students were invited to share their experiences battling eating disorders and other mental health disorders. “Honestly, the best way to start to address this issue is to try to foster a more merciful environment,” Yopp said. “Allow students to admit faults and not to be ashamed of them. Rather, encourage them to celebrate the accomplishment of battling and overcoming those struggles.” The Counseling Center hopes to raise more awareness of eating disorders around National Eating Disorders Week, which will occur during the week of February 26.

Members of the RSC mingled with students at a meet-and-greet event on Monday.

RSC, from page 1

Director of Artist Residency Programs Bethany Prestagiacomo views modern Shakespeare as an effort to speak to students today; hence, the capstone production will adapt Elizabethan scenes to a very contemporary American set. Students are enthusiastic about their roles and have prepared by reading the entire play for each scene they are performing. “When I heard that I was Juliet, I was ecstatic,” said Kelsey Formost ’09 of her scene in Romeo and Juliet. “It’s a role I’ve always dreamed of playing.” The RSC plans to oversee the stage direction of the production when they arrive, but cast members have been rehearsing together since November. “We have an incredible cast, not only in terms of talent but in terms of the way we connect,” said Jax Lacaire ’07, who is studying stage combat for her role as Lord John of Lancaster in 1 Henry IV. “We trust each other,” Lacaire added, “and our performances are better for it.” David McClay ’08 spent much of winter break reading lines and developing his characters. “It’s really exciting this year because there’s a hands-on involvement with the residency,” McClay said. “The opportunities afforded to this school by the residency are unparalleled.” The production will take place at 7:30 p.m. in Duke Performance Hall on Friday, February 3, and Saturday, February 4. Davidson has also made an application to the Edinburgh Fringe Drama Festival which, if accepted, will enable the cast to travel to Scotland from August 1-17 for an additional performance.

THE LAW FIRM

We Are Proud To Be Your Neighborhood Law Firm

Concentrating in Personal Injury

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School
Best Lawyers in America ‘84—'06
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. University of Richmond
Commissioner for the Town of Davidson ‘83-85; '88-'97
Former Judge NC Court of Appeal
Adjunct professor of trial advocacy Duke Law School
Executive Council UNC Law School

Other Areas of Practice
Appeals, Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning, Litigation, Real Estate, Wills & Trusts

In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

Study Abroad in Sweden

YOUR OWN THING

Looking to study abroad? Don't follow the crowd to England or Australia. Study abroad in English with The Swedish Program at Stockholm University!