12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mac computer unoccupied
SEE PAGE 4

College Republicans cancel ‘DeLay Day’ celebration
SEE PAGE 7

Drawing 101 Student misses pass/fail deadline
SEE PAGE 10

Senior prepares for post-graduation move from Facebook to MySpace
SEE PAGE 11

Nunchuck master performs in Union atrium
SEE PAGE 13

THE YOWL
Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Editors:
Bobby Kenner
Jeff Yeakel

Of No Real Importance:
Nathan Bradshaw

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editors at bokenner@davidson.edu or jeyeakel@davidson.edu.

Note: The Yowl is the humor and satire section of The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as
truth.

UBI ORTA UBERTAS
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 2006

Come real or get Yowled on

After nearly three months of in-class inactivity in History 362: America from 1980 to 1989, Mary White ’07 has made
a concerted effort to recapture as much of her 15 percent participation grade as possible. White is planning a full-on
attack for attention, including visits during office hours, personal emails with thought-provoking questions, and a move to a seat in
the front row.

“It’s been tough to really motivate myself to participate in a full classroom like this at 8:30 in the morning,”
said White. “But as late as last week, I noticed that my professor had trouble recognizing my name when she
was passing back our tests. I knew that I had to act quickly, especially with the end of the semester
just around the corner.”

Her push for favorable face time with her professor, Dr. Suzanne Thode, began at 8:24 last Monday morning. Noticing that
Thode regularly showed up to her classroom up to 10 minutes early, White employed the early arrival conversation tactic to
break the ice and set the foundation for future brown-nosing.

“Everybody tries to stay after class to get a few extra minutes with the teacher,” said White. “Sure, that’s easier,
because you’ve had an entire class to think up something relevant to discuss, but you’re competing with at least two
or three other suck-ups. If you really want to get noticed, show up early to ask a question or make
a comment, because you’ve got close to an hour to reinforce that initial connection with a few in-class comments and
unwavering eye contact.”

Since she made her decision to actively pursue participation...

Newly designed major to study meaning behind ‘Lost’

The Center for Interdisciplinary Studies (CIS) has recently approved a major proposal by Jared Perryman ’08 to discover the hidden
meaning behind the popular ABC primetime drama “Lost.” The television show, which contains heavy symbolism and numerous religious allusions, has
caused many fans to speculate about hidden meanings within the program.

“I had been staying up all night watching the DVD box set and the shows that I had downloaded on
my computer,” said Perryman. “This show is so addicting that I hardly had time to do any of my schoolwork.
In fact, I was failing most of my classes. A friend of mine just got her major proposal on Russian
literature approved, so I decided that I had better put together a CIS proposal before I got kicked out of
school.”

While most CIS majors create their own curriculum by combining a number of courses already taught at Davidson, Perryman has
been granted permission to forgo class (but not tuition) in order to spend more time watching “Lost” and reading...fan websites
dedicated to discovering hidden meanings within the program. German Professor and Perryman’s CIS advisor Melville Hodges explained that the nature
of the show rendered most commentary or classes just a really cool TV show. It was useless in terms of
his interest in grasping a higher understanding of its significance.

“This is a pretty deep show that prompted one of Perryman’s major proposals dedicated to the topic. ‘Lost’ is so
complex that I’m afraid Davidson classes are not quite advanced enough to explain it. We're better off leaving this to
the experts running the fan websites,” said Hodges.

Perryman hopes to have a reasonable theory concerning the program by the time he graduates in May 2008. By that
time, he said, he will have watched at least two more seasons and will be able to provide more insight
into the meaning behind the show.

Mary White ‘07 has been irritating classmates with increased participation in her early morning class. She has averaged 3.7 comments
per class and logged over 2.5 hours in office time. She has made sure to not only go ahead in
the assigned reading but also to email Thode relevant stories that she has found from online newspapers and blogs.

While most of her friends in the class respect the late-semester run for a higher grade, some of White’s classmates
are becoming irritated with the constant in-class comments. “I think Mary is going a little overboard with this,” said friend,
classmate, and former back-row neighbor David Dannon ’08. “I can understand wanting to speak a little more frequently in class
to boost your participation grade, but there can be too much of a good thing. Just last class, Mary raised
her hand to answer a rhetorical question.”

Mary’s friends are not the only people unhappy with her current participation pace. Peter Barry Lieber ’06 has been competing
for Thode’s attention since the first day of class, going so far as volunteering to help with almost 48 percent
of total handouts distributed in class. Lieber feels threatened by the new opposition and considers White’s late entry into the
race for recognition alarming. “I have worked my butt off all year to solidify my position as the most engaged,
eager student in the class,” said Lieber. “But nobody can keep up with the way Mary has been answering questions,
nobody.”

Time will tell if White’s newfound zeal for History 362 has done anything to improve her standing with Thode. While
most professors like to see a more consistent approach to class discussion, something can certainly be said for making a
late lasting impression. “I like to think that participation grades are like the NCAA Tournament,” said White. “Anybody can get
hot near the finish and end up taking home the whole thing.”

Davidson's Best April Fools Jokes 2006:
- Exit 30 Roundabout
- Duke vs. Davidson Lacrosse Match
- One phone per room policy
- Free quesadilla night at the Union
- April at the Lake Moss Monster
- Bob Dylan concert
