THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2006

New grants offered to encourage study abroad

By MICHAEL TELLIS
Staff Writer

The Dean Rusk International Studies Program has created five new grants in addition to the grants already offered to students every year. The new grants are the Hanafi Award, Fujita Award, Davidson Watson Alumni Award, and the Morehead Scholarship.

“All of the new grants are designed to encourage students to develop long-term, individual experiences abroad,” Dean Rusk Program Director Chris Alexander said.

The Hanafi and Fujita awards will reward recipients with $2,500 each, while the Davidson Watson Alumni Award provides a grant of $4,000. All these awards emphasize independent research; the projects should be self-designed and individual. The grants cannot be used for study abroad or participation in pre-arranged programs or group projects. Additionally, applicants should be willing to travel alone for the projects that they have designed.

The grants also focus on foreign language use; recipients must immerse themselves in an environment where another language is spoken and use their developing language skills to conduct their research. The study abroad proposals should entail a minimum of two months outside the United States.

The Dean Rusk Program is offering the Rusk Travel Prize for the first time this year, which recognizes distinctive and innovative proposals and provides funds to expand the project beyond what has already been proposed. Though the award is not tied to any specific region or subject, it requires a recipient to spend the funds in a way that goes beyond the original proposal.

The program encourages its applicants to devise innovative proposals involving culturally enriching activities. “Proposals can involve a wide range of activities,” Alexander said. Some grants will be awarded to students seeking to develop specific interests abroad.

“The most specific grant is the Fujita Award, which is specially designed for student artists (broadly defined as musicians, actors, painters, sculptors, and so on) who want to spend at least two months developing their artistic talent outside of the United States,” Alexander said.

Last year, the Dean Rusk Program funded student projects all around the world, in countries like China, India, Germany, Ethiopia, Denmark, Chile, South Korea, Tanzania, Bangladesh, and Ecuador. The focus of the projects ranged from the democratic system in Argentina to Peace and Conflict Resolution in Uganda.

“Receiving the Dean Rusk Travel

---

RUN FOR YOUR LIFE

Is that New Year's Resolution a distant memory? Need a little motivation? Nothing does it like a new pair of shoes! Visit Charlotte's ONLY running specialty store for a complimentary gait analysis and custom fitting. Whether you are a walker, a runner, or a casual exerciser, we will help you get the correct shoe for your foot type. All winter apparel on sale now! We offer women's clothing sizes XS-3X and men's sizes S-2X. Davidson students, staff, and faculty receive 10% off every time you shop with us.

Run For Your Life - University
Cochran Commons Shopping Center
2712 W. Mallard Creek Church Rd.
704-503-1105
www.runforyourlife.com

---

Students who participated in the Semester in India program saw sights such as this one nearly every day."Prize was an unexpected honor,” said Noelle Thomas ’06. “I felt as if my hard work and preparation for my fieldwork actually paid off, and my reward was getting the research trip of my dreams. I was able to travel throughout Western Australia and Jamaica with a comfort that is unusual for most trips of this nature. I made last-minute changes, accommodated multiple schedules, and maximized my time spent in both countries without constantly worrying about breaking a slim budget.”

The Dean Rusk International Studies Program is a valuable asset to the college's students. “We have several accounts from which we make awards,” Alexander said. “In each of the past three or four years, the Dean Rusk Program has made about 125 grants.” Dean Rusk Fellow Ashley Griffith said, “The program awards about $100,000 in grants every year for scholarships ranging from a few hundred dollars to thousands.”

Students should not worry if their proposal is not awarded one of the five newer grants. “If a student does not receive one of these awards, he or she will still be considered for a regular Dean Rusk grant,” Alexander said.

SGA, from page 3

The SGA Efficiency Committee, the Environmental Policies Committee, the Faculty/Student Relations Committee, the Safety Committee, the Internship Credit Committee, and the Transportation Committee are all products of the internal reorganization. The committees strive to achieve short-term goals that make a tangible difference and also provide the groundwork for long-term endeavors.

The Environmental Policies Committee worked this year to improve the current recycling program so that it can tackle loftier goals in the future. The committee is currently developing a recycling video for next year’s incoming freshman class and working with the Residence Life Office to establish a recycling pilot program putting recycling bins in all first-year students’ rooms next year. “We cannot gain the support of the Physical Plant before we, the students, start using and taking the current recycling program more seriously,” freshman class president Richmond Blake ’09 said.

The Arnold administration also focused on improving campus transportation. According to Shandley, Arnold worked especially hard with the Dean of Students Office to restructure the Vamanos Van program. Working all summer from Charlotte, Arnold negotiated a one-year pilot program with Ragin’ Uptown that eliminated the shortage of student drivers for the Vamanos Van. This spring, the new SGA administration and the College administrators will evaluate the feasibility of continuing Arnold’s program. “Ryan came in as an absolute newcomer to SGA. What he lacked in knowledge, however, he made up for with an open communication style that's accessible to lots of members of campus.” --Tom Shandley, Dean of Students

Arnold also points to his administration’s success in expanding CatTV and in extending students’ declining balances to cover purchases at CVS and at Palermo’s Pizza. Arnold was pleased with the progress that SGA made throughout his presidential term. “I believe that the administration did an excellent job of getting SGA on the right track,” he said. “Now it’s up to the next administration to step it up and finish what we started.”