THE DAVIDSONIAN

Home proves sweet for women, bitter for men

By PIERCE TRUMBO
Sports Editor

In the midst of season-long homestands, the men’s and women’s tennis teams had opposite results this week. The men dropped a tough 3-4 SoCon loss to Wofford and a 0-7 match to No. 22 N.C. State. The women, meanwhile, recorded three easy victories over Northern Colorado (7-0), East Carolina (6-1), and West Carolina (7-0).

For the men, the Wofford match started well as Flaviu Simihaian '08 and Ethan Jaffee ’09 won 8-2 at the number one doubles spot and Joe Cheaney '06 and Phillip Compeau ’08 scored an 8-6 victory at the number three doubles position. In singles competition, however, only Jaffee and Scott Myers ’09 could secure victories, meaning that Wofford won just enough games to beat the ’Cats 4-3. Three days later the team took on a 16-3 N.C. State squad. All matches were played with the minimum number of games. Only Matt Hartman ’08, at the number six singles position, forced a tight match. After losing the first set 2-6, Hartman fought back before eventually losing the second set 6-7 (6). The men now stand at 7-7 overall and 1-3 in the SoCon with five SoCon games to play. With three home games remaining, the men’s team is also trying to boost attendance at their matches by grilling hotdogs.

For the women, home proved much sweeter. Northern Colorado came to town last Wednesday and was thoroughly trounced, not winning a single game. The ’Cats next played Eastern Carolina. This time the team had a little more trouble as the number one doubles combination of Kim Whalen ’08 and Kelsey Linville ’08 dropped their first match since a 1-8 loss against Armstrong State on March 2. Still, the ’Cats won seven of nine matches. In particular, Michele Fanney '09 at the number two singles spot and Meredith Skeeters ’08 at the number five position showed heart as they won three-game matches. Fanney won 6-4, 3-6, 6-4. Skeeters, for her part, rebounded from a first game loss to win her match 2-6, 6-0, 6-3. To complete the week, the women played Western Carolina. Once again the team dominated, winning every match.

---

What are you doing this SUMMER?
What is the EDGE?
What does EDGE stand for?

* Excel in future endeavors now, get the EDGE!

Rollins College Crummer Graduate School of Business
www.crummer.rollins.edu/edge

Maybe it's time to get the EDGE! at Rollins College, Crummer Graduate School of Business. The EDGE program is a three-week business skills “boot camp” held June 12 - 30. It has been expertly developed for Sophomores, Juniors, Seniors or recent college graduates regardless of their undergraduate major, who are thinking about getting an MBA or are career-focused and want to enhance their business skills.

* Explore the basic concepts and vocabulary of business through team-based projects
* Develop critical thinking skills to solve business problems and give presentations
* Grow academically while being taught by internationally recognized Rollins MBA faculty

Join us for an information session, call for more information or apply by June 1, 2006.

INFORMATION SESSION
SATURDAY, MARCH 25
Rollins College, Crummer Hall
RSVP 407-691-1079
businessEDGE@rollins.edumatch in the fewest number of possible games. Whalen said of the three-game stretch, “Our hardest match this week was against ECU. They’re not a conference team but they’ve always been strong. We played well, and it was a good win.”

The women now carry a five-game winning streak into the bulk of their SoCon schedule. They will look to build on their 2-0 SoCon and 10-4 overall record on Wednesday when they travel to Charlotte for the first of four matches in the coming week. The match against Charlotte is scheduled to begin at 2 p.m. “We have four matches coming up and to win, each will require a full team effort,” said Whalen.

The men’s team, hotdogs and all, will next compete Saturday at home against Chattanooga. The match will begin at 1:30 p.m.

Sucks

OSU Fans: OSU's fans were generally lame and obnoxious. They cheered when their team did well and stayed seated the rest of the time.

Officiating at Friday’s Game: Poor enough for our section to chant "bullshit" on more than one occasion. OSU went to the line 23 times; we went seven times.

CBS Coverage of Tournament: Many have complained about CBS. Here’s a rule to help Greg Gumbel and Co.: if a game is within four points with three or fewer minutes remaining, show that game and not some blowout.

Terrell Owens: The star receiver just signed with the Cowboys. This isn't really sucky, per se, but considering past behavior, TO stays here until further notice.

Barry Bonds and His Steroids: The slugger's recent cross-dressing and doping controversy are just two more reasons why baseball's becoming a big joke.

Doesn’t Suck

Ian Johnson: The bearded wonder was the best player on the court last Friday, scoring 26 points and grabbing ten boards. Davidson will miss that sweet left-handed hook. Opponents won’t.

SGA: Usually defunct, SGA organized a 2 a.m. bus ride to Dayton. Between the bus and the Union printers, students should give some credit to their politicians.

Bobby Vagt: The Prez stood up for Davidson on ESPN's "Cold Pizza" and helped lead the Davidson faithful at the game. Besides, the T-shirt Vagt wears over his suit at games is just plain cool.

Bradley, Wichita State, George Mason: Mid-majors and teams in that darn Missouri Valley conference have provided the upsets so far. Whether these teams will be able to keep it going is another matter.

The New Chicken in the Grill Line at Commons: Commons officials pulled the plug on the old nuggets in favor of new crispy tenders. Excellent call. Give the person who made the switch a raise.

For The Davidsonian’s final six issues, Sports will run the Sucks/Doesn’t Suck feature. Those who wish to share the boons and banes of their existences with the “greater college community” should email pitrumbo@davidson.edu. If your comment is ridiculous and/or relevant enough, pitrumbo (not his real name) will include it in the next week’s paper.

Earn a P.E. Credit. Write for Sports. Email mojamouneau or pitrumbo.