DAVIDSON COLLEGE

@ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 2006

FIRST CLASS
U.S. POSTAGE PAID
Permit #1
Davidson, NC

VOLUME 97, NUMBER 18

Union Café reacts to
disrespectful students

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

The Union Café late night staff have reported an increase in instances of abusive student behavior on Wednesdays and weekends
this semester.

According to Director of Auxiliary Services Richard Terry, the staff has commented especially on the increase in the number of
inebriated students causing problems on Wednesdays.

Terry said that the Café staff tolerates general boisterousness, rowdy behavior and even, to a certain extent, cursing, as long
as it is not directed toward staff members.

Problems arise when students address staff members disrespectfully and unleash their frustrations concerning Café policies on employees who have no
influence over the setting of such policies.

“The person working the register has absolutely nothing to do with setting prices,” Terry said. “The person closing the doors
has absolutely nothing to do with the Café hours, but students are taking their frustrations out on these individuals.”

According to Director of Dining Services Dee Phillips, Café employees understand that students might have questions about Café policies and
prices.

Recently, though, a simple question has elevated to shouting, profanity and aggressiveness.

Associate Director of Dining Cash Operations Ed Rutkowski said that aggressive student behavior has become a significant issue.

See Union, page 2

Connor raises $15,000
for cancer research

By LEXI HAMILTON
News Editor

Connor House raised a record-breaking $15,000 to benefit Friends for an Earlier Breast Cancer Test during its seventh annual Bosom
Buddies dinner and silent auction event last Saturday.

Service co-chairs Serra Aygun ’06 and Merin Frank ’06 attribute the fundraiser’s success to “phenomenal speakers, exciting live auction items
and Connor’s steadfast dedication.”

Speakers included Mercy Hospital Hoffberger Breast Center nurse Marsha Oakley and psychotherapist Lisa Robinson, a breast cancer survivor and renowned
expert on the psychological effects of the disease.

Each speaker emphasized the importance of early detection.

“Lisa Robinson urged the women in the audience to be ‘buddies’ and remind each other to perform regular self-exams,” said
Aygun.

See Connor, page 2

Connor House held its Bosom Buddies dinner on Saturday night.

see A&L, PAGE 6

MARCH MADNESS

The men’s basketball team will play Ohio State in Dayton, OH, on Friday at 12:15 p.m. in round one of
the NCAA Men’s Basketball Tournament. Tickets are sold out, but students who already have tickets can pay $25 to ride
to Dayton on a bus that will leave at 2 a.m. on Friday. The game will be broadcast in the
900 Room. For complete coverage, see pages 11-13.

College to host gay
alumni this weekend

By COLLEEN McKOWN
Senior Staff Writer

The Alumni Office will sponsor a Gay Alumni Weekend this Friday and Saturday.

Director of Alumni Relations Matt Merrell planned the gathering in response to requests from gay alumni.

“Many of our gay and lesbian alumni had a difficult time at Davidson solely because of their sexual orientation,” said
Merrell. “This weekend helps to remind our alumni that the college values them, that they are important members of the
Davidson family and that the college remains committed to offering support for all of its students on campus.”

The gathering will begin with a dinner on Friday featuring Davidson graduate and civil rights activist Anne Stanback ’81.

Stanback serves as director of Love Makes a Family, an organization founded in 1992 that supports families that struggle with
the discrimination that results from sexual orientation.

On Saturday morning, the alumni will attend a breakfast reception at President Bobby Vagt’s house.

For lunch, students and alumni will gather for a roundtable discussion.

According to Merrell, planning the weekend was somewhat of a challenge.

“The College has difficulty identifying our gay and lesbian alumni since we do not request any information on our surveys
about sexual orientation. We have, therefore, had to identify this group through informal means,” Merrell said.

While planning the weekend’s events, Merrell sought input from students in Davidson’s Gay Straight Alliance (GSA).

GSA President Sam Hotchkiss ’08 worked with the Alumni Office and fellow GSA members to coordinate planning.

Hotchkiss and other GSA members plan to attend the dinner on Friday night, as well as the breakfast and the
roundtable discussion on Saturday.

According to Hotchkiss and Merrell, Davidson has changed dramatically in the past five years in regards to tolerance of homosexuality.

“I have felt very comfortable at Davidson, and not had any problems in terms of harassment regarding my sexual orientation.
This will be a time for alumni who had a hard time here to see how much Davidson has changed,”
Hotchkiss said.

Though Davidson is becoming more inclusive, there is still work to be done.

See Alumni, page 3

Davidson Quiz Bowl team heads to nationals

By JAMES SIMS
Staff Writer

The Davidson Quiz Bowl team will compete in the national championship in April after a strong performance at the regional
tournament.

Team captain Alex Johnson ’06 said, “We were buoyed by our win at regionals, where we won by over 100
points per game but did not have a top ten individual scorer.”

Davidson finished the regional tournament with 17 wins. The team’s only loss was to Southern Virginia University in the final
round.

Team member Sims Hill ’06 attributes Davidson’s success to the group’s positive morale.

“I think what helped us the most, besides having a large store of not particularly useful knowledge, was that we
could really trust each other as a team and that we had practiced enough that everyone just accepted he would
get some questions wrong,” Hill said. “Some of the teams we played were really distressed every time they got a
question wrong, and you could see that it shook them.”

Davidson will not only be the smallest team competing in the national championship but also the only one from a
school without graduate programs.

While graduate students are allowed to compete, Davidson’s team is composed entirely of undergraduates.

See Quiz Bowl, page 10

A fan’s guide to Dayton

see SPORTS, PAGE 13

Interview with Jay Bilas

see SPORTS, PAGE 13
