THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Week Ahead

For you sports fans...

TRUMBO’S PICKS OF THE WEEK

Wildcat Game of the Week

There are no home games scheduled for the rest of the season.

Outside the Den

NBA Playoffs

NBA Playoffs are a nice distraction...

So last night I saw “Stick It,” the new gymnastics movie, and it was really terrible. I’m talking like “Cabin
Fever” meets “Deuce Bigalow: European Gigolo” bad, although the only horror was in the acting and the funny parts were
completely unintentional. I was thinking I needed a stress reliever after one test on Monday and before a weekend’s worth
of finals. Turns out it was definitely not worth $6.50. I was unprepared, walking into the theater, for the movie
to be so awful. I had also not realized that it was on the cusp of being a kids’ movie—I
was looking forward to some comedy à la “Bring It On” and I got stuck with a made-for-the-Disney-channel lemon. It
was almost worth some of the pain when Jeff Daniels bit it on the trampoline but not quite. The problem
was that the humor and situational comedy in “Bring It On” are not easily duplicated. What it was lacking, essentially,
were the cheerleaders.

I will admit that I’m a cheerleading fan and have been since, at the age of four, I wore a
baby-sized Fighting Irish cheering outfit to my brothers’ basketball and football games. It’s not a secret, either, that I have
many cheerleading friends and enjoy watching their routines. Is it a sport? I’m leaning toward no, at least short of
the ESPN2 competition level, but it really depends on who you ask. Cheerleaders will of course say heck yeah, and
I have the t-shirt to prove it.

Now that most of our college’s sports have called it quits for the year, it’s a time of reflection and
commemoration of the great struggles and successes that our athletes have experienced wearing the red and black these past three
seasons. Cheerleaders, however, are not the first team that comes to mind, nor probably the second or third. The sad
truth is that we take our cheerleaders for granted here at Davidson, and I think that’s a shame. Who else
maintains peppiness and optimism for two hours straight even if we’re losing? Who else will wear matching polyester suits and
do backflips on the unforgiving floors of Belk Arena? While the fans in the stands can rant and frown and
boo at the referees, cheerleaders maintain a professional exuberance that would try another spectator. But really, these purveyors of perkiness
don’t simply watch, they participate. This isn’t any club or intramural team—sport or no, these are D1 athletes, and they
follow the same rules and regulations as our other NCAA members. A Davidson cheerleader is devoted, enthusiastic and has more
school spirit in his or her little toe than a lot of Wildcats have in their whole bodies.

“The reason that I joined is because I love being on a team and being dedicated to my teammates,” said
Rebecca Speiser '08, winner of the squad’s Most Spirited award. “Cheering is about getting the crowd involved and supporting the
players.” The team, which this year boasted 19 members, practices almost every day during its biggest seasons, the fall and
the winter. They can be seen at every home football game, every home basketball game, men’s and women’s, and at
the SoCon championships for basketball. And starting in August, experienced veterans and new members will once again begin training for
what they hope will be the best year yet. “Davidson is a spirit school,” said Dominique Maietta ’08, the team’s
Most Improved member and an asset to the squad. “It has untapped potential,” she said.

As my career as Sports co-editor for the Davidsonian draws to a close, I think with sadness that I will
not be able to witness the fall athletics season or watch my cheerleading friends in action. I would like to
thank my co-editor, Pierce, for all the times he’s corrected my errors and generally saved the section. And thank you,
Anna, for leaving the light on for me all those late Tuesday nights. Now that it’s over, I have only
one thing left to say: “Go, Cats. Go.”

College says goodbye to its winningest coach

By ERIK SWANSON
Staff Writer

“He’s one of the guys. Always sitting with us during banquets, cracking jokes and making fun of [assistant coach Scott]
Briggs.” This description from one of his players does not evoke an image of a typical 61-year-old Division I men’s
tennis coach, but then again, Jeff Frank has been much more than just a tennis coach to Davidson College and
his players since the early 1970s. After 34 years as head coach of the Davidson men’s tennis team, Frank retires
this year as the winningest head coach of any sport in Davidson College history. Winning at least 10 matches in
each of his 34 seasons, Frank’s teams have posted winning records 29 times since he took over in 1973. A
two-time Big South Conference coach of the year and four-time Southern Conference coach of the year, Frank has won more
than 530 matches in his career. In November 1996, Frank...was named to the North Carolina Tennis Hall of Fame. His
stats are impressive, for sure. But the legacy that Frank leaves behind cannot be measured solely in win totals and
individual awards. Frank has been a mentor to many, from his players, to other coaches and staff, even to students
unaffiliated with the tennis program or athletics department. Davidson women’s tennis assistant coach Avi Kigel credited Frank for helping him
learn the ropes in his first season at Davidson last year. “He has been a mentor to me since I
arrived,” said Kigel. “Any problems that I had I knew I could go to him, and he was always willing
to help.”

Certainly, Frank’s relationships with his players have been rewarding for both him and the players. Frank has managed to straddle
the line between coach and friend with his players, enabling them to view him as just one of the guys
while still respecting him as a coach. “Coach was always there to listen to our stories from the weekend,” said
John Bolton '07. “He would always have something insightful to say, if not adding a story or two of his
own.” “I think I will miss his jokes more than anything,” said co-captain Joe Cheaney '06. “Who would have thought
that a coach so up there in years—just kidding, Coach—could sit around and give college kids a hard time about
weekend exploits?”

Far more than just a buddy with whom they could swap stories, though, Frank is remembered by his players for
his commitment to their improvement both on and off the court. Said Matt Hartman ’08, “He is, for me, a
role model first and foremost for how he conducts himself at his job, always going the extra mile to make
sure his kids become better students and people, in addition to tennis players.” “The biggest thing he’s taught me,” said
co-captain Daniel Bermeo ’06, “is to enjoy the game and how to get organized in life. He showed me that
you can get better at tennis, get good grades and still have a social life.”

Even in his brief time on the team, Thomas Runge ’06, who made the team last fall as a senior,
has been motivated by Frank’s leadership and camaraderie. “Coach Frank took a chance on me my senior year, and I
could not be more grateful,” said Runge. “I had no idea how much I would learn from him.” Cheaney, team
captain this season and one of three players in the senior class to play under Frank for four years, has
experienced firsthand Frank’s devotion to players’ lives off the court through Frank’s involvement as faculty sponsor of KA. Said Cheaney,
last year’s KA president, “He supported my commitment to both the tennis team and the fraternity. There are a lot
of coaches that wouldn’t have done that. There are a lot of coaches that won’t even let their players join
fraternities. Coach Frank isn’t one of them.

“I feel truly blessed to be a part of his last senior class of players,” said Cheaney. “He has always
been a great role model for everyone on the team and has really stayed in touch with the college-age players
that he coaches. Beyond what Coach has done off the court, he really supports his players as people. He understands
all of the different commitments that his players have and supports all of them, not just the tennis aspect of
college. He truly cares about his players as individual people, not just as tennis players trying to win matches.”

Frank explains his approach to coaching at Davidson as multi-faceted. “On the court I try to make sure my players
always play up to their potential and hope that they play above their potential,” he said. “Off the court, I
really want them to have a good experience with tennis at Davidson. I want tennis to be a release from
the stresses of Davidson life—a chance for them to get some exercise, laugh a little bit and then study at
night. I think athletics at Davidson are kept in proper perspective as an adjunct to the education process. The pressure
on coaches is not to win at all costs, but to give the players a very good experience.”

Frank will not be far from campus in retirement, at least not during the tennis season. As soon as his
retirement is official on July 1, Frank plans to take his new motor home on the road and experience fishing
spots as far west as Montana. In the winter, between the fall and spring tennis seasons, Frank plans to spend
time in the Florida Keys, playing tennis in the mornings and fishing in the afternoons. But during the tennis season,
Frank’s familiar face will still be visible along the sidelines. “Retirement won’t change what I’m doing that much,” he said,
“it will just give me more time to do other things that I enjoy. It’s the best of both worlds.”

Frank never planned to coach this long. Thirty-four years later, he has left an indelible impression on Davidson College. Frank
lists the day-to-day practices as some of his favorite memories from his 34 years, noting that there has never been
a practice that he did not enjoy. He will have several more years to enjoy standing on the court with
his players, and the Davidson community will share the privilege of his presence.
