THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2006

Cats split Saturday’s doubleheader with Hoyas

By Ricky Dimon
Staff Writer

The baseball team opened its 2006 campaign with a doubleheader against the Georgetown Hoyas on Sunday at Wilson Field. After
Saturday’s game was rained out, the ’Cats started the season off with a bang — or three. Davidson used a
trio of home runs and six shutout innings from starting pitcher Rob Wilson ’07 to cruise to a 10-5 victory
in the opener.

Already ahead 1-0 after a two-out RBI single by Gregory Zage ’07 in the first inning, Taylor Shoop ’06 led
off the second with a blast down the right field line. In the fourth, with the ’Cats out in front
4-0, Wilson helped his own cause with a two-run shot over the center field fence. The Hoyas had thoughts of
a comeback victory after scoring three runs in the seventh and another in the eighth, but Ronnie Shore ’06 delivered
his third hit of the game in the form of a solo shot, giving the ’Cats an insurance run. When
Jay Heafner ’06 retired the last Georgetown batter with the bases loaded in the ninth, the ’Cats had a 10-5
season-opening victory in hand.

Davidson could not carry the momentum into the nightcap, however, falling to the Hoyas by a score of 7-4. “We
definitely aren’t satisfied with the doubleheader split,” Heafner said. “Our hitting from game one didn’t carry over to game two.
We got behind early and played a little defensive the remainder of the game.”

Heafner hopes the season he had last year will carry over. In 2005, Heafner recorded an astronomical .448 batting average,
led the Southern Conference with a .533 on-base percentage, and was second in the league in slugging percentage at .700.
The 2005 SoCon Player of the Year hit 18 doubles and 11 home runs while driving in 58 runs for
the Wildcats. For his efforts, the league’s baseball coaches selected Heafner as this season’s Preseason Player of the Year.

“There is absolutely no added pressure on me after being named preseason POY,” said Heafner. “I don’t play to live
up to anyone’s expectations, I don’t play for awards, and I don’t play to prove people right or wrong. I
play to win.”

Heafner’s teammates have much respect for him. “I trust him anywhere and anytime on a baseball field,” said catcher Alex
Entrekin ’06, who serves as co-captain alongside Heafner. “Jay has no patience for failure in himself or his teammates. He
is quiet, calm and bored by bad pitching. He reads pitchers well and can usually tell the catcher what he
called before the pitcher throws it.”

Heafner, who is playing shortstop this year after three seasons at third base, also headlines the Preseason All-SoCon First Team.
Joining him on the elite roster are Entrekin, who hit .350 last year, and designated hitter Taylor Shoop, who is
already living up to his billing with two homers in two games this year. Led by this trio of seniors,
the ’Cats hope to improve upon their 13-17 conference record of last year. Three straight losses to Furman at the
end of the season left Davidson out of the conference tournament, but the squad fully expects to be a factor
in the proceedings this time around.

In order to do so, they...

---

George L. Abernethy Endowment

Funds from the Abernethy Endowment will be available to support worthy initiatives by current first-year, sophomore, or junior students. Individual
awards fall into one of the following categories:
1. Independent student research, either in the US or abroad.
2. Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year or the summer.
3. Collaborative research by students and faculty. The student must have a clearly defined independent role in the research.

At the request of the donor, applications are limited to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences. For
your information, last year the Abernethy Endowment supported projects with grants up to $3,500; the average award was about $2,000.
This is a second round of Abernethy funding during which a limited number of additional awards may be made.

Application forms are available in the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283). Completed application forms are
due back in this office before 5:00 p.m. on Monday, April 3, 2006. The announcement of awards will occur on
or before April 21, 2006.will have to overcome the significant losses to the roster. Among those gone from last year’s
team are Sam Navarro ’05, Eli Benefield ’05, Michael Muniz ’05, and pitching ace Andy Carter ’05. With Heafner moving
to short after the departure of Benefield, Alden Crissey ’07 will fill the void at the hot corner. Zage, who
hit .311 and launched nine homers in his freshman season, will now assume the full-time starting job in left field,
while the other two outfield spots remain in limbo. No question, however, is bigger than the one the ’Cats have
on the pitching mound, as the squad must overcome the loss of Carter, who was drafted by the New York
Yankees. Wilson will become the number one starter, and Matt Meade ’06 is penned in at second in the rotation.
Suitors for the third position include Rob Shenk ’07, who posted a 10.8 strikeouts per nine innings last year, and
intimidating specimen Matt Knight ’07, who at 6-6 and 230 pounds strikes fear into the hearts of hitters even before
letting fly with his first pitch. If the ’Cats have consistent work out of their pitching staff, anything is possible
for this squad as long as Heafner is around. “A blend of Marcus Giles, Yoda and a sunflower seed, Heafner
was made to play baseball,” said Entrekin. If the rest of the 2006 ’Cats prove to be of a similar
blend, watch out.

Wrestlers end season with win against JMU
By MIKE CHAPMAN
Staff Writer

The wrestling team concluded its regular season this past Sunday in Belk Arena, routing James Madison 30-13 after dropping a
close match to Duquesne, 21-16. The win against James Madison ended the regular season for the ’Cats, who finished with
an overall record of 7-9-1. The win against JMU was even more impressive, considering James Madison had beaten Duquesne earlier
in the day.

“We didn’t wrestle poorly against Duquesne. We just matched up poorly with them,” said Matt Leonard ’06. “Our team rebounded,
though, by turning the JMU match into a smoke show. That was some of the best wrestling we’ve done all
season.”

The Wildcats won seven out of the first eight bouts versus JMU, highlighted by pins from Matt Pendle ’08 and
Marcus Boyd ’07 at 157 and 174 pounds, respectively. Pendle’s fall was his second of the afternoon and the team-high
ninth of his season, while Boyd improved his overall duals record to 13-2. For the seniors, this was their last
dual match in their careers at Davidson. And for all of them, this final season has been a complete success.

“This season has had so many ups and downs,” said Patrick Coman ’06, “but overall, I think it has to
be seen as a success. Even though we’ve had injuries to some of our best wrestlers, we’ve done things that
haven’t been done at Davidson in a long time.” Defeating Appalachian State and finishing ahead of VMI in the conference
are just a few of these accomplishments.

With less than a month left in the season, all the Davidson wrestlers are preparing for the Southern Conference Tournament
in March. For many, this is a chance to prove that their success in the regular season was not a
fluke.

“As a team, we expect great performances from everyone,” said Leonard. “As a senior, I’m just going to let it
fly. I’ve been wrestling for the last 14 years of my life and [the conference tournament] will be my last
shot at achieving everything I’ve sacrificed so much for.”

The wrestlers will benefit from a two-week layoff before the conference tournament. The tournament will take place on Mar. 4
in Lexington, Va.

All Davidson College Professors, English Majors, and Alums wanting to get back to North Carolina! We have numerous businesses for
sale in the greater Davidson College area, such as an upscale tanning salon, a coffee shop, a franchise truck accessories
store, and more. A perfect business for a Davidsonian, however, is a bookstore with the following features:
- Well-established for over 13 years
- Large inventory of used books (over 40,000!)
- Increasing sales volume over the internet
- Large repeat customer base
- Some seller financing available

For more information call CFC, Inc. at 704-650-6630
