4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Gry? | Admission, from page 1

According to Gruber, admissions priorities sometimes conflict. “We want a first chair cellist and someone who can make a corner kick in soccer, but we also need bridge builders and service leaders,” he said.

The profile for the admitted students from the class of 2010 mirrors the profiles of the last two years’ incoming freshman classes. This year, 23 percent of admitted students are individuals from racial or ethnic minority groups, as compared to the class of 2009, of which 22.4 percent of students either self-identified as minority students or chose not to report. Assistant Dean Anna Meadows works through a stack of applications. These percentages are slightly lower than they were for the class of 2008, in which 25.2 percent of admitted students either self-identified as members of a minority or declined to report.

Historically, the percentage yields of students accepting offers of admission have been approximately equal for minority and for white students. Although three years ago the yield for African-American students was 10 percentage points higher than the yield for other minority students, that gap narrowed to less than one percentage point in last year’s freshman class. “Seeing the yield go up is a great thing, a huge thing,” Gruber said. “The comfort level for minority students on campus is increasing because the faculty, staff, students, and community members are so welcoming.”

Geographically, the largest percentage of the class of 2010 will hail from the Southeast, as has been the case in years past. Of this year’s students admitted through Regular Decision, 45 percent live in the Southeast. Southeasterners also compose 36.9 percent of the class of 2009 and 38.9 percent of the class of 2008. As in the past, the Midwest is the region of the country with the fewest representatives at Davidson. Students will lead tours on campus on Saturday morning for Decision Davidson. Of this year’s admitted students, eight percent are Midwesterners, compared to 10.8 percent in the class of 2009 and 9 percent in the class of 2008. Despite the recent drop in Midwesterners, Gruber said that Admissions has seen an increase in applications coming from states “where we are not as much of a household word” in the past few years.

Additionally, 29 international students have been offered spots in next year’s freshman class. Three have already accepted through Early Decision. While culling students from diverse ethnicities and birthplaces, Admissions also attempts to keep the percentages of men and women even. So far, 86 men and 95 women have been enrolled through Early Decision. Historically, the percentages of students from different types of high schools have also remained approximately equal. Last year, 50 percent of the freshman class attended public high schools, 33 percent attended private high schools, and 17 percent attended parochial or foreign high schools.

According to a survey conducted by the Public Opinion class taught by Associate Professor of Political Science Pat Sellers, Davidson students generally value diversity within the student body. In Oct. 2005, 944 randomly selected students were asked the following question: “For Davidson to provide the best educational experience, how important is it that the students come from a wide variety of states and countries, racial and ethnic backgrounds, religious traditions, socio-economic backgrounds, and political and ideological perspectives?” Of the 557 students who replied, 63 percent said that it is “very important” for students to come from a variety of political and ideological backgrounds.perspectives and 33 percent said that it is “somewhat important.” This represents the greatest positive response to any of the variables contained within the survey question. “I think diversity is important, but I don’t like it when someone is put in a spot just for their ethnicity,” said Kathryn Cole ’09. “If a student is well-rounded, that is more important.” Students over the past three years have indicated that they value geographic, socio-economic, and racial and ethnic diversity at approximately equal rates. Fifty-six percent of respondents in a 2005 survey viewed geographic diversity as “very important.” As for socio-economic diversity, 59 percent of respondents in 2005 viewed it as “very important.” “I think it’s important to have a diverse group of students,” said Mac Skelton ’07. “Economic diversity is important because we don’t want everyone to be from the neighborhood. And we need diverse talents.”

NEWS

Keeley, from page 1

...that she has a lot to learn in the months to come. “There’s learning all day, every day, in all sorts of ways that are unexpected,” Keeley said. Keeley has a broad two-part goal that involves helping the College while also increasing her knowledge of the position. “My immediate plans are to learn as much as I can about what I need to be doing... I need to understand the breadth of the job and to know the people who work for College Relations I haven’t gotten to know so I know what kind of talent we have on the staff and how to make the best use of that talent. [I also want] to review some of our policies and procedures to make sure that we’re being as efficient and effective as possible,” Keeley said.

The Vice President for College Relations position opened last December when former Vice President Kristin Hills Bradberry left Davidson to work for the Arts & Science Council in Charlotte. Members of a search committee reviewed Keeley’s application and interviewed her twice before offering her the position. Search committee members included Director of Athletics Jim Murphy, Associate Professor of Psychology Kristi Multhaup, Professor of Physics Dan Boye, Associate Dean of Students and Director of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano, Senior Associate Dean of Admission and Financial Aid Kathleen Stevenson, and Director of Human Resources Carl Sorensen.

ELON UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW

Opening in Greensboro — August 2006

Now accepting applications for the charter class.

Web site: law.elon.edu for complete information and online application

Toll free: (888) ELON-LAW

E-mail: law@elon.edu

CREATING A NATIONAL MODEL OF ENGAGED LEARNING IN LEGAL EDUCATION

- Emphases on total student development, exceptional legal knowledge and skills, leadership and civic involvement, and international study
- Learning experiences in the area's leading law firms, federal and state courts, businesses, government agencies, and nonprofit organizations
- Home of the North Carolina Business Court, which handles business litigation in the school’s courtroom and facilities
- Partner with the American Judicature Society's Institute of Forensic Science and Public Policy, a new national organization located near the law school