14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2006

Tennis teams earn four wins in weekend matches

By Erik SWANSON
Staff Writer

Combining for four wins in the last week, the men’s and women’s tennis teams made sure that no visiting opponent left Knobloch Tennis Center a winner. The men played the final two matches of a four-match homestand, defeating Division II-ranked Presbyterian and Queens University, while the women swept a Saturday doubleheader against Gardner-Webb University and nationally-ranked South Carolina State University.

The men’s team got off to a rough start against Presbyterian, ranked 25th nationally in a recent Division II poll. After holding leads in all three of the doubles matches, the Wildcats could only manage to win one, losing the top two matches in tiebreakers and falling into an early 1-0 hole. Having lost the doubles point, the 'Cats needed to win four of the six singles matches to secure a victory.

The team did not waste any time in accomplishing that task, winning four consecutive singles matches to clinch the match. Flaviu Simihaian ’08, Daniel Bermeo ’06, Ethan Jaffe ’09, and John Bolton ’07 won easily in straight sets, and the 'Cats walked away from the match with a 4-3 win.

“The match probably looked a lot closer than it was,” Coach Jeff Frank said. “We didn’t play very good doubles, but I was really pleased with the way we came back in singles after the early doubles losses.”

The team built on its success against Presbyterian in the win over Queens University. Davidson swept the doubles matches and won five of the six singles matches for a 6-1 win, improving their record to 3-1 on the season. Bolton won 6-0, 6-0 at the number five slot, the second match in a row in which he has blanked his opponent.

“We're playing pretty well in singles,” Frank said. “Our singles lineup is young and inexperienced, but we’re loaded with talent. We’re right where we need to be as we approach the conference season.”

The Davidson women hosted Gardner-Webb University and South Carolina State University for a Saturday doubleheader at Knobloch Tennis Center.

Play began Saturday morning with the Wildcats facing Gardner-Webb, though the visiting Bulldogs failed to put up much of a fight.

Davidson quickly won the first two doubles matches, both by a score of 8-3, to take the early 1-0 lead in the match. The 'Cats continued their strong play in the singles matches, winning all six matches in straight sets, led by Kim Whelan’s (’08) 6-0, 6-0 win at the number two position.

The afternoon would only get harder for the women, as the second half of the doubleheader featured a South Carolina State team ranked 70th in the nation entering the match. The Wildcats jumped on top of their opponents quickly in doubles, winning at the top two slots.

Kelsey Linville ’08 and Whelan won 8-6 at the top doubles spot, while Lindsey Powel ’06 and Michelle Fanney ’09 cruised to an 8-3 victory at number two, giving Davidson an important 1-0 lead.

“That was some of the best doubles we’ve played as a team since we started in the fall,” said Coach Caroline Price. “The doubles got us off to a great start for the rest of the match.”

The singles matches were much more evenly matched, as four of the six matches went to three sets. Kate Levitt ’07 stretched Davidson’s lead to 2-0 with a quick 6-2, 6-2 win at number four, and Whelan earned a hard-fought 3-6, 6-2, 6-3 win at number three to bring the 'Cats within one match of the victory.

After South Carolina State fought back with wins at slots one and two, only Lora Dushanova ’09 and Meredith Skeeters ’08 remained on court for the Wildcats.

After Dushanova’s 6-4, 6-4 win at number six clinched the match for Davidson, Skeeters’ match no longer affected the outcome.

Skeeters, however, battled hard to the end, overcoming her opponent in a three-set battle, 3-6, 7-6, 7-6, and increasing the 'Cats margin of victory to 5-2.

Photo by Richard Shavegan

The women’s tennis team swept Gardner-Webb and beat South Carolina State 5-2 on Saturday.

“I thought we showed a lot of heart and toughness out there,” Price said. “The [players] just gave a remarkable effort and performance given the difficulty of playing a doubleheader against such a tough team. Wins like this really bode well for our young team.”

The win over South Carolina State brings the Wildcats’ record to 3-2 on the season. Two of the team’s three wins have come against nationally-ranked teams, while both losses were suffered against top-30 teams South Carolina and North Carolina.

The men’s team returns to action Saturday when they travel to Columbia to take on South Carolina, the 12th-ranked team in the country.

The women will take a week off from competition before playing next Sunday against Virginia Tech in Blacksburg.

SPECIAL PRACTICE TEST EVENT

ENROLL TODAY

Take a FREE practice test at this event and you'll receive a detailed score analysis and exclusive strategies to help you prepare for Test Day!

February 18th
10:00am
Chambers - 3rd Floor

Limited seats are available. Call 1-800-KAP-TEST or visit kaptest.com/practice.

*Test names are registered trademarks of their respective owners.

6PGA0001