DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, May 3, 2006

SP COLLEGE WEEKLY

First Class
U.S. Postage Paid

Permit #1
Davidson, NC

VOLUME 97, NUMBER 24

Students celebrated the last weekend before exams with a barbecue, band, and activities in the middle of Patterson Court.

Top left: Brian Albers ’07, Paul Paradis ’06, and Larissa Hohe ’08 race cars.
Top right: Beaux Jones ’07 and Hunter Williams ’07 celebrate Spring Frolics.
Bottom right: Emmaline Harvey ’07 jousts against a fellow student.

Frolicking in the sun

Remembering Josiah Cameron

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

On April 11, Davidson College mourned the loss of Josiah Cameron ’09.

According to those who knew him best, Josiah was fun-loving and pursued his own joy.

Josiah would golf at Covington and, after finishing the round, would set golf balls in the grass and attempt to
hit them over the Senior Apartments or across the baseball fields.

Scott Buckhout ‘07, one of his hall counselors on Fourth Richardson, recalls Josiah’s sense of humor and his laid-back attitude.

“Josiah would tell me early in the afternoon that he would be going somewhere in the evening where he would
need to dress up, and, when I would ask him if he planned to change, he would say ‘Maybe,’” Buckhout
said. “I’d be waiting all afternoon to see if Josiah would dress up or just go, and he would always
come by the room before he left to let me see that he’d gotten ready and dressed up.”

Buckhout also remembers Josiah constantly interacting with his hall mates, playing basketball and goofing around on the hall.

“I always come back to the way he loved and cared for people who weren’t loved and cared for by
anyone else,” Buckhout said. “He was loyal to his friends, but he was also loyal to the people who didn’t
have friends.”

Some evenings, Josiah would move through the hall, knocking on doors and inviting his hall mates to allow him to
treat them to dinner.

Josiah would take those who accepted to Bonsai, and they would eat their food on one of the benches on
Main Street.

His friends say that Josiah always gave more time to others than he saved for himself.

Josiah’s visitation and his memorial service reflected the joy and the kindness of his life.

At the visitation, held on April 13, members of the College community had the opportunity to share memories of Josiah
with his family members.

By the time that the visitation was scheduled to begin, a large crowd had already gathered in the

See Josiah, page 4

Forum explores options for former CoHo house

By KATE GILLESPIE
News Editor

Students proposed filling the vacancy on Patterson Court with a late-night hangout spot, a new women’s eating house, and a
space for student organizations at last Thursday’s forum.

The space opened when CoHo shut down earlier this semester.

President Bobby Vagt opened the forum by asking students to hold a “back-and-forth” to discuss the possible uses for the
empty house.

Students then presented outlines of their proposals.

SGA senators Wilson McCrory ’07 and Gagan Gupta ’07 proposed reestablishing an Outpost on the Court.

McCrory and Gupta are members of an SGA committee formed three weeks ago to look into the options for filling
the space. Although the entire SGA has yet to vote on the issue, McCrory and Gupta determined after talking to
current students, past students, and administrators that a new Outpost would fill a social void on campus.

“Right now, there is not a common space for students to go,” McCrory said. “Most colleges, if they don’t have
it on campus, it’s off campus. Students of all demographics can come together.”

According to McCrory and Gupta, while the Outpost could bring together opposite ends of the social spectrum, many non-PCC members
feel that Patterson Court fosters a sense of exclusivity. “Twenty-one-year-olds hibernate in the basement while non-21-year-olds are upstairs,” McCrory said.
“It’s not a place to meet people; it’s a place to go with people I already know. Our size forces
kids into their rooms or off-campus, which detracts from the sense of community.”

McCrory and Gupta have not worked out details yet because they want students to be involved.

They envision opening the Outpost from Wednesday to Saturday and also holding student meetings, coffeehouses, and performances in the house.

Sara Madison Davenport ’07 proposed a new women’s eating house.

“There are 12 houses on Patterson Court,” Davenport said. “Eight of these organizations are men’s organizations. Each of the women’s
houses has over 100 members. There are less than 80 for all of the men’s houses.”

Davenport said that a new eating house would create more leadership positions for women on campus.

She believes that the size of eating houses keeps women from getting involved and causes them to drop out. She
compared the self-

See Forum, page 3

NEWS:

Batten Lecture calls for media reform

PAGE 3

Do you have a Rembrandt in your basement?
see A&L, PAGE 5

Commencement: time for change
see PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 11

One last look at 2006 athletics
see SPORTS, PAGE 15

The men’s track team scored 83 points at the SoCon Championship, good enough for third place. It’s the team’s best
finish ever at the meet. See page 12.
