Che Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE @ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @ WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2006

First CLASS U.S. POSTAGE PAID PERMIT #1 Davidson, NC

VOLUME 97, NUMBER 13

RSC returns, assists in student production

By KATIE PFEIFFER & CARA CHRISTIAN
Senior Staff Writer & Staff Writer

Students and faculty anxiously anticipated the January 23 arrival of the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC). The return of the RSC marks the second year of a four-year residency at Davidson College that encompasses performance and educational approaches to selected Shakespearean works. The residency’s theme for the 2005-2006 academic year is “Infinite Variety: Love and Family in Shakespeare.” The installment explores Shakespeare’s take on love and family through student and faculty performances, public lectures, film screenings, RSC coffee chats, and panel discussions.

“We were looking for scholarly interests to represent in a wider range,” said Professor of English Cynthia Lewis, regarding this year’s choice of theme. According to Lewis, this year’s theme allows participating dramatists and scholars to “fold a feminist perspective” into their interpretations of selected Shakespearean works. Lewis is currently teaching Shakespeare Practicum—Love and Family, a seminar for the student performers that collaborates heavily with the RSC. The class concentrates on textual work and began blocking scenes upon the arrival of the RSC. The course’s capstone will be two performances of the production “For Every Passion Something: Scenes, Songs, and Sonnets of Shakespeare.” The one-hour production features 23 Davidson students acting six Shakespearean scenes that investigate the residency’s prevailing themes.

See RSC, page 3

Otis Moss, Jr. spoke at the King Day Community Convocation.

Moss speaks at King Day convocation

By COLLEEN MCKOWN
Senior Staff Writer

Rev. Dr. Otis Moss, Jr. spoke at the Community Convocation ceremony on Sunday, January 14 in order to open the Martin Luther King Day ceremonies. Moss had the unique opportunity of knowing King personally, as King provided Moss friendship and spiritual leadership during Moss’ early days as a minister.

“Dr. Moss was the most powerful King Day speaker that we’ve had,” said Assistant Dean of Student Life Ernest Jeffries, who coordinated the King Day activities. “He brought a unique perspective because he knew King and his family, a history that others couldn’t bring. He was thoughtful and challenging, and didn’t try to be politically correct. He taught us and inspired us.”

Moss holds a Bachelor of Arts from Morehouse College, a Master of Divinity from Morehouse’s School of Religion/Inter-Denominational Theological Center, and a Doctor of Ministry from United Theological Seminary.

See Moss, page 2

NEWS: 4

Jazz group Off Main performed on Monday to welcome the RSC.

Eating disorders spark concern, support groups

By KATE GILLESPIE
News Editor

Due to the sensitivity of this issue, The Davidsonian editors have changed the names of two of the students interviewed to protect their anonymity. They are referred to as “Hannah” and “Annie.”

Eating disorders, which have one of the highest mortality rates of any mental illness, are prevalent on most college campuses. In recent months, several student groups have recognized the need to examine how Davidson’s campus environment may play a role in fostering eating disorders.

“Davidson students were often the stars in their high schools,” Counseling Center psychologist Dr. AmandaSamson said, “Here, many struggle emotionally when they are no longer at the top of their class. They often feel out of control and eating is one thing they can control.” Heather Yopp ’06, who helped start the mental health awareness group Changing Minds last semester, believes that eating disorders are becoming an increasingly important issue at Davidson. “Because I struggled with an eating disorder in the past, I am able to recognize the behaviors, thoughts, and fears in other people,” Yopp said. “While being at Davidson, it seems as if the number of people struggling with them has increased.”

Hannah, who battled an eating disorder before coming to Davidson, believes that the stressful, overworked atmosphere on campus makes students susceptible to eating disorders. “You have a lot of commitments, you’re really stressed, and you’re constantly around people who will critique you,” Hannah said. “For me, that seems to be my biggest downfall, when I feel like people are critiquing me and feeling that I can’t get my work done.”

Annie, another Davidson student who is struggling with an eating disorder that began in high school, believes that, although being at Davidson did not cause her eating disorder, college life has exacerbated her problem. “Getting used to college life affects it,” Annie said. “There are all the choices and no parents around to make sure you’re eating. Eating for me gets so low on the totem pole that it just kind of doesn’t happen.” Both Hannah and Annie agree.

See Eating, page 3

Returning juniors face housing crunch

Faculty accused of “academic hazing” see YOWL, PAGE 9

Inclusivity of PCC houses in question

By AMEE PATEL
Editor-in-Chief Emeritus

A student survey conducted last fall reveals that nearly 20 percent of Davidson students believe organizations on campus exclude members on the basis of race. In an open-ended question that allowed students to list these organizations, the Black Student Coalition, Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity, and Kappa Alpha fraternity were mentioned by the greatest number of students. While the constitutions of the three organizations clearly state that membership is open to all, the survey results reflect a common student perception to the contrary.

Survey results ‘noteworthy’

The survey conducted as part of a course on public opinion asked 557 randomly-selected students, “Does any student organization on campus exclude members on the basis of race?” The next question asked the 19 percent, or 106 students, who responded affirmatively, to list the organizations they perceived to be exclusionary. While students listed several organizations, the Black Student Coalition (BSC), Alpha Phi Alpha (APA), and the Kappa Alpha Order (KA) were mentioned most frequently, getting 36, 28, and 15 votes, respectively.

According to Professor of Political Science Pat Sellers, who teaches the course that conducted the survey, the significance of the results is that no other organizations were mentioned to the same degree as the BSC, APA, and KA. “The most noteworthy finding is that so many people view Alpha Phi Alpha, the BSC, and Kappa Alpha as excluding people on the basis of race when they don’t,” he said.

Social pressures may serve as exclusionary tools for the BSC and APA

See Survey, page 2

Women’s basketball’s winning streak

see SPORTS, PAGE 16