14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 2006

The Wildcat Pulse: a glance at Davidson athletics

Golf places twelfth at Birkdale Collegiate

The golf team could not continue past success this weekend, finishing 12th out of 12 teams at this weekend’s Birkdale
Collegiate Classic. The team had done very well at the Wexford Plantation in Hilton Head, S.C., over Spring Break, tying
for seventh in a very competitive field. The ’Cats’ home course proved to be a greater challenge, however, with the
team struggling to compete down the road at the scenic Birkdale Golf Club.

Steve Mayo ’07 was the brightest spot for the ’Cats, shooting a 78 for the second and third rounds of
the three-round tournament. Mayo finished in a tie for 43rd. Other notable individual performances came from Tim Dillon ’06 and
Michael Saari ’09, both of whom shot a 234 for the combined three rounds, only one stroke behind Mayo. David
Fowler ’09 also did well, shooting a combined 235 that included an impressive final round of 75. Fowler tied for
50th. Ty White ’07, Christian Davis ’06, and Alex Knoll ’07 competed for the ’Cats as well.

For the second year in a row, Charlotte took home the title. The 49ers broke the tournament record last year
with a -10 score as a team and posted a +6 this year. Neil O’Briain of Wofford earned individual medal
honors after shooting a -3, as did Charlotte’s Ray Sheedy, who was one under par.

“It’s disappointing that we didn’t perform better on our home course,” Mayo said afterwards, “but learning to fight through a
tough tournament only makes us stronger.” Saari said that he will “do everything I can to get the team to
the NCAA tournament.”

Next up for the ’Cats is the Furman Intercollegiate on the weekend of March 25 in Greenville, South Carolina, at
the Furman University Golf Club. The team remains optimistic about their chances. Mayo said, “We’re excited and ready to compete
at Furman next week because our team has found success there in the past.” The Wildcats will look to bounce
back from a disappointing finish this weekend and regain their solid early-season form.

--Kevin Birney

Men’s tennis gets 4-3 win against Richmond

The men’s and women’s tennis teams played some of their best tennis of the season in the first week after
Spring Break, combining to win three out of four matches last week. Both teams earned their first Southern Conference wins
of the season against Georgia Southern over the weekend, as the men defeated the Eagles at home on Saturday and
the women traveled to Statesboro on Sunday, where they notched a 7-0 win.

The men started the week slowly, losing a close non-conference match to James Madison University last Tuesday. The Wildcats showed
some rust in the 4-3 loss, and coach Jeff Frank worked the team hard in the following days to help
the players return to form. “The team worked really hard in practice after the loss to JMU, especially on conditioning,”
said co-captain Joe Cheaney ’06. “I was particularly proud of Scott Myers ’09 for his positive attitude.”

The players responded on Saturday against Georgia Southern, playing well in both doubles and singles to earn a 6-1 victory.
“The doubles against Georgia Southern was really good, probably the most solid doubles top-to-bottom that we’ve played this season,” said
Frank. “Our singles play also remained excellent.”

Hosting Richmond on Sunday, Davidson hoped to continue its solid play against a non-conference foe with whom they always have
a tough match. The ’Cats began slowly in the doubles matches, demonstrating the inconsistent doubles play that has plagued their
spring season to date and losing all three matches. “The doubles [play] against Richmond was very average,” said Frank. “We
had too many double faults and missed returns. Those are mistakes that we just can’t make.”

The early 1-0 deficit meant that the Wildcats had to win four out of six singles matches to claim the
match. Flaviu Simihaian ’08 and Ethan Jaffee ’09 continued their strong play of late with quick wins at positions one
and three to give Davidson a lead in the match. “I thought we did a great job once again in
the singles,” said Frank. “The matches against Georgia Southern and Richmond were probably our two best matches of the year
so far.”

The women’s match against Georgia Southern on Sunday marked their first conference competition of the season, and the 7-0 win
gave them an early 1-0 record in SoCon play. The ’Cats were never in danger of losing the match, as
Davidson won all three doubles matches and all six singles matches in straight sets, improving their overall season record to
7-4.

The men will next take on SoCon opponent Wofford today, before hosting nationally-ranked North Carolina State on Saturday. After a
match today against Northern Colorado, the women will take on East Carolina on Friday and Western Carolina on Saturday.

--Erik Swanson

Hollar leads Women’s Swimming

Just before Spring Break, the men’s and women’s swimming and diving teams traveled to George Mason University for the season
finale: the CAA Championship Meet. Looking to put a fitting cap on a successful season, in which the team has
progressed significantly, the men’s team improved from last year by finishing sixth overall and the women finished in ninth.

Ellie Trefzger ’07 said, “This year’s conference meet was a turning point in Davidson swimming and diving, revealing the enormous
progress that our team has made over the past few years.”

While both teams made improvements across the board, there was one Wildcat that shone particularly bright at the CAA meet.
In her last meet ever, Megan Hollar ’06 delivered a performance to remember, capturing three first-place finishes in four days
in the 200 breast, 100 breast, and 200 IM. This outstanding performance merited Hollar the award for Female Swimmer of
the Meet.

Looking back on the meet, Hollar said, “I thought it was a great meet, and a wonderful way to end
my career. I enjoyed watching my teammates be successful, and as a whole the team was extremely successful in breaking
records and getting on the podium for top three finishes. I can’t believe it is all over now. I have
been swimming all of my life, and now this huge chapter in my life is closing. I won’t miss the
morning practices, but I will miss the competition, and being part of a team.”

For the Wildcat men’s team, the themes of the meet were improvement and broken Davidson records. Led by Steve Tolson
’06 and Brad Poole ’06, the team received major contributions from every class. In reference to the success across the
board, Fiete Stegger ’08said, “The freshmen took on the challenge and really out-swam themselves. The sophomore class continued to improve
from last year’s performances, and the senior class swam extremely fast in their last meet in a Davidson College swimsuit.”
Some of the top performances included Will Broughton ’08 taking second in the 500 free, with Merritt Peele ’09 following
behind in eighth. Also, Poole finished fourth overall in the 100 fly, breaking the Davidson record twice in doing so.
The men’s relays really contributed points to the team, finishing with two third-place finishes and a fifth. Finally, diver Dwight
Swift ’08 recorded two top-15 finishes in the diving events.

On the women’s side, Hollar was not the only one making waves. Courtney Sanders ’09 took seventh in the 100
fly and broke the Davidson record twice in doing so. In addition, Kristen Shields ’06 took fifth in the 200
free in a time of 1:53.42, breaking a 14-year-old Davidson record in the event. Also contributing successful swims were Trefzger,
coming in sixth in the 1650 free, and Alanna Ream ’09, who broke Trefzger’s former record in the event while
coming in second. In the relays, the women were also successful, capturing a fourth and a sixth place. For the
divers, Stephannie McKinney ’09 and Christie Brough ’07 scored points in the three-meter springboard event.

In conclusion to this successful season, the Davidson Men’s and Women’s swimming and diving teams went out with a bang,
leaving much optimism for the future of the program. Coach Tim Kelly, however, will not continue to be a part
of the program, resigning from his head coaching job here at Davidson after three successful years.

—Jamie Will

Four school records at SoCon Indoors

On Feb. 24-25, the men’s and women’s track teams competed at the SoCon Indoor Tournament in Clemson, S.C., finishing their
indoor seasons with strong performances. The women’s track team went on to compete on Saturday in its first meet of
the 2006 outdoor season at Coastal Carolina in Conway, S.C.

On the men’s side of the championships, Davidson finished fifth with 33 points. Douglas Noreen ’07, Lance Harden ’09, Brad
Troxell ’08, David Ritchie ’07, and John Bialas ’07 each contributed to the three new school records achieved at the
meet. Noreen broke Davidson’s record for the 800 meter with 1:55.41. Harden’s time of 15:02.33 in the 5000 meter gave
him third in the event and the second school record on the day. The third was produced by the 4x400
team of Ritchie, Bialas, Noreen, and Troxell, whose time of 3:24.09 gave them fourth place in the championships.

“I was really disappointed with my 3K race on Friday night,” said Harden, “so I tried to channel my frustration
into the 5K. The 3K was an extremely tactical race, and, after talking with my three teammates who were also
running the 5K, we decided that we would push the pace in the 5K if no one else did.”

For the women, Omaka Obidegwu ’08, Karina Nascimento ’08, Colleen McKown ’08, and Jessica Chasen ’07 also broke a school
record with their time of 4:04.41 in the 4x400. The team placed ninth in the championship meet with 22 points.

“I was really impressed by the entire team’s performance at SoCon,” said Harden, “We accomplished one of my main goals,
which was to place better than any Davidson team has in the past. It was pretty cool because all of
our athletes passionately supported each other in their races.”

Megal Atias ’08 finished Saturday’s action in Conway with a time of 4:47.40 in the 1500 meters, scoring the second-place
position in the event. Emily King ’09 also took the runner-up spot in the 5000 meters with a time of
18:12.30, while McKown ran third in the 800 meters at 2:19.78. Finishing after her in seventh place was Hilary Leister
’06. Two Davidson sprinters broke school records for the women while at Coastal Carolina. Katurri Phillips ’08 finished the 200-meter
in 26.25, just ahead of teammate Kim Colley ’09, whose time for the event was 26.31.

The women next compete against North Carolina A & T at the Aggie Team Challenge in Greensboro on Saturday, March
18, while the men go to the Charlotte 49er Classic on Friday.

—Monica Jamouneau

Wrestlers get two in top three at SoCon

While the majority of the college campus was returning from Spring Break, the wrestling team was off to VMI to
compete in the 2005-06 Southern Conference wrestling championship on Mar. 4. Unfortunately for the ’Cats, the team came home with
a sixth-place finish and only two wrestlers finishing in the top three of their weight class. Patrick Coman ’06 (125
lbs) and Matt Pendle ’08 (157 lbs) led the squad, finishing second and third place, respectively. The only other Davidson
wrestler to record a victory was Marcus Boyd ’07, winning his 174-pound opener.

Coman benefited from a first-round bye by winning his semi-final bout 8-4. In the 125-pound finals, he was unable to
defeat Chattanooga’s Javier Maldonado, losing the match 11-2. Pendle dropped his opening match of the tournament but was able to
bounce back by winning his next two bouts en route to a third-place finish in the 157-pound weight class. He
ended his season in style, needing just 2:12 to pin his opponent and earn a spot on the podium. It
was his 10th pin of the season.

Despite the individual triumphs, the team felt that they had anticipated and prepared for a much stronger outing. “We could
have done better at the tournament, it’s as simple as that,” said Pendle. “I know I didn’t wrestle my best.”

Although the team did not perform to its expectations in the tournament, there is no question that the season was
a special one. Under second-year coach Bob Patnesky, the Wildcats earned their most successful league record in 21 years, posting
a 1-3-1 dual record in Southern Conference competition. The 'Cats were also able to snap their league winless streak with
their 23-17 victory at Appalachian State on Jan. 31.

Competing in one of their toughest schedules in recent years, the team’s overall record of 7-9-1 was an accomplishment in
itself. And for the underclassmen, next year’s season can only be better. “As for next year, I have some pretty
high expectations,” said Pendle. “The freshmen will have some experience under their belts, and from what I’ve been hearing, next
year’s freshman class is pretty good.”

As for the seniors, they are content in the fact that their four years as Wildcats put Davidson wrestling back
on the map. “Our team has come so far in four years,” said Coman. “I hope people look back on
this one day as the turning point for Davidson wrestling.”

—Mike Chapman
