. PERSPECTIVES THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2006

Staff Editorial

In Memoriam
Josiah Cameron
Dec. 31, 1986 - Apr. 11, 2006

The Davidsonian
@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor-in-Chief: Allie Barry
Managing Editor: Sarah Rucker

News Editors: Kate Gillespie, Lexi Hamilton, & Jackie McKeon

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Alumni office offers all groups reunions

I was somewhat remiss in not providing a speedier reply to Paige Taylor’s critique on this page of the gay alumni reunion several weekends ago (“Gay alumni reunion creates segregation,” Mar. 22). Yet, I cannot better express the value of this gathering than Alex Wales ’08 (“Gay Alumni Weekend about celebration,” Mar. 29) and Sami Jarrah ’07 (“Bring homosexuality ‘out’ on campus,” Mar. 29) did so eloquently. Yet, I offer this response.

Fundamentally, the college aims to embrace all members of the Davidson family through programs and services offered by its Alumni Office and other campus departments. These programs seek to strengthen the connection of Davidson’s alumni with the institution, a connection forged during one’s student years but nurtured for many years thereafter. One way the college does this is by gathering groups of people on campus for reunions. These reunions are frequently scheduled around class gatherings. But often they are scheduled around other connections a graduate makes while at Davidson such as the Jazz Band, athletic teams, an ethnic group, Watson Scholars, World War II veterans, or fraternities. The gay alumni reunion was not much different. We would consider scheduling a reunion of men who like to wear red bow ties (for instance) if there was a demand for it and it helped alumni sustain connections with Davidson.

Gay and lesbian students are a fact of life on this campus, as they were a generation or more ago. Today, gay students can have a great Davidson experience; this was not the case for many of our gay alumni from yesteryear. Welcoming these alumni back to Davidson, healing wounds inflicted while these alumni were at Davidson, and supporting the diverse Davidson family seem to me to be in harmony with the highest of Davidson’s ideals.

Matt Merrell ’84, Director of Alumni Relations

Guest Columnist

An extended definition of “parody,” according to the OED, is “a poor or feeble imitation of something; a travesty.” Although I myself didn’t participate in the sleep-out last week that was part of the Engage for Change, I have talked with a few people more familiar with the activities of that week than I was. And I would, without reservation, describe an event like sleeping out of doors without ostensible shelter as a parody of homelessness and poverty according to the above definition of the word if not the more commonplace definition where “the characteristic style and themes of a particular author or genre are satirized by being applied to inappropriate or unlikely subjects, or are otherwise exaggerated for comic effect.” Replace author and genre with “the way a group of people live,” or “their everyday circumstances,” and my usage of a term normally relegated to literary criticism will become clear.

I wonder how many of those who participated in this sleep-out have ever seen a homeless person(s) without the barrier of a car’s windshield, or beyond the illustrations of a sociological or anthropological study, or, for that matter, in our country instead of the Third World countries we’re so willing to travel to, “study,” and polemicize about socio-economic issues like poverty, hunger, and homelessness. How many of all of us have seen homeless persons along a city sidewalk while we’re on our way to some sort of store, restaurant, movie theater, and faced the near-paralyzing situation of being asked for money? What do you think? The more importantQuestion, of course, is what do you do? Do you give someone money even though they might use it for drugs instead of food? Do you lie about not having money while you finger the cluster of bills or change in your pocket? I sincerely doubt that many of us, when faced with the inescapable reality of poverty and homelessness in the life of an individual, have ever stuck around long enough to learn how likely it is that the money in our wallets would be used for drugs instead of food—instead we get away as quickly as is humanly possible. Or we don’t even roll down our car window. And, perhaps most importantly, we rarely if ever ask a homeless person their name. We rarely risk our own comfort by allowing the homeless to become what they actually are—human beings—and instead keep our distance so they remain abstractions that don’t implicate our own lives of socio-economic privilege that would necessarily be challenged were we to give them the humanity that we take for granted.

Amnesty asks for students to help

As many of us at Davidson are aware, genocide has been raging in Darfur, Sudan for the past three years. Though seemingly impossible, recent events have gone from bad to worse. Peace talks have stalled. UN humanitarian coordinator Manuel Aranda da Silva stated that over 150,000 people have been forced out of their homes in the past two months. Moreover, Jan Egeland, the UN’s emergency relief coordinator, was recently barred from visiting Darfur.

In response to this recent upsurge in violence, Amnesty International is asking for the help of all Davidson students. First, please take a look at the pamphlets posted around Vail Commons. These provide quick, five-minute ways in which we, as individuals, can take action. Secondly, Amnesty is asking SGA’s support for legislation requiring North Carolina to divest from multinational companies that have direct ties to the Sudanese Government. Over $2.25 billion of state pension funds are invested in companies that are conscious of the genocide but continue to operate in Sudan. We are also encouraging Davidson College to look into what control we may have over portfolios that include Sudan-tied companies. Finally, if you have the time, we invite you to attend a talk on Darfur given by Dr. Eric Reeves, the preeminent scholar on the issue. It is at 7:00 p.m. on Apr. 20, in the Sprinkle Room. We are all busy this time of year, but taking just a few minutes to act on this issue could save thousands of lives.

Justin Eusebio ‘09
Nate Shestak ‘07

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor. Please e-mail submissions of fewer than 250 words to davidsonian@davidson.edu. We reserve the right to edit for content, brevity, and grammar. Anonymous letters will not be printed.

Campus sleep-out: a parody of poverty

By JOHN FRY

The desire to keep poverty at a distance while talking knowingly about it, or sleeping out on the grass after drinking hot chocolate with not one but two blankets and who knows how many layers of clothes, invariably effaces the material realities and lives of the homeless and makes them immaterial, disembodied. Activities like last week’s sleep-out assuage the guilty consciences of the wealthy and privileged without meeting the material needs of the homeless and, even more crucially, romanticizes their lives that are assuredly the exact inverse. If we are going to interrogate poverty, or learn about homelessness, we should go into inner-city Charlotte and sleep—literally—on the streets, benches, or in doorways and risk arrest. We should not sleep on our landscaped grass where our beds are only a Cat Card swipe away.

John Fry ’06 is an English major from Victoria, Tx. Contact him at jofry@davidson.edu.