12 The Week Ahead For you Sooners fans... TRUMBO’S PICKS OF THE WEEK Wildcat Game of the Week Men’s Basketball
vs. Ohio State 12:15 p.m. on CBS 900 Room | This is the pick of the year. For those going
to Ohio, enjoy. On campus, the game will be televised in the 900 room. Either way, the game will be
hot and great.

SPORTS Destination Dayton: Support the ’Cats

Friday will be here before we know it. When you’re reading this, if you read this at all, there is
a good chance it will be Wednesday night, and you have only about forty hours to prepare for the nail-biting,
basketball-bouncing, leprechaun-laden, dripping wet saga that will be Friday, March 17, 2006. Are you ready?

What’s so hot about this Friday, you ask? Absolutely nothing, if you’re living in a hole or the basement of
the library, which (let’s not kid ourselves) is the same thing. Anyone who thinks that the day two days from
now is just another day to study is really boring — put that book down immediately. Career Services told me
that grad schools don’t accept boring people anyway, so you may as well stop studying (note: I should mention that
I made that up, so please don’t do anything drastic. I’m sure Harvard Law School will notice that you worked
really hard to get that 3.6 GPA. Everyone knows there’s no grade inflation at Davidson College).

For those not habitating subterraneously, I suggest getting a full eight hours on Thursday night. You’ll need it. A lot
of factors will combine to make this coming Friday absolutely and inevitably insane, not the least of which will be
the selling of those deliciously green Shamrock Shakes at McDonald’s. Others include the anniversary of the death of Marcus Aurelius
in the year A.D. 180, Katie Greeson’s birthday, the realization that there are only 282 shopping days before Christmas, and
of course, the reveling of St. Patrick’s Day. But the one true event, a globally-relevant and internationally-significant incident, will occur
at 12:15 p.m., EST, when the Davidson Wildcats keep an appointment with the Ohio State Buckeyes at the “neutral site”
of Dayton, Ohio.

How does one juggle so many obligations at once? Is it possible both to support your ’Cats and bear the
green? Will Marcus Aurelius be put on the back burner because you chose to focus on NCAA festivities? Will Davidson
beat Ohio State? I don’t pretend to have all the answers. The answer to the last question is “yes, of
course,” but other than that, I have absolutely no idea.

Hands down, the best way to go about your day is to support the red and black by attending the
game in person on Friday. Naturally, that poses a problem as tickets sold out approximately two hours after the first
was bought, unfortunately leading to rioting and random acts of unfriendliness all over campus. To get around this, I suggest
dressing up like a cheerleader and stowing away in the luggage compartment of their bus on Thursday night. Failing that,
maybe you could submit an ad on the Crier.

Those fans who remain staunchly loyal to their team but are either allergic to the Midwest or have a paper
due at five p.m. on Friday will nevertheless be watching the action from the homeland. I truly respect the doubtless
chosen ones who must commit the ultimate sacrifice and skip class to watch the game. Whoever decides these things should
make Friday an observed holiday, free of academic responsibility and dedicated to the proposition that all work is not equal
to the importance of the Game. I give props to those professors who showed initiative and canceled class. They should
all do it, and I promise I’m not saying that to get out of my 8:30.

By any right, the party should truly begin Thursday afternoon for the first games of March Madness. Boston College has
one of the earliest games, and I will definitely be tuning in to see how hard they smack Pacific. In
the Washington division, I think we’ll all be fairly bored until Tennessee gets picked off in the Sweet Sixteen by
Michigan State or UNC. But UConn no doubt will be rolling over the rest of the East—and isn’t it boring
when your wildest bracket has at least two, probably three No. 1 teams in the Final Four? Oakland is the
only truly interesting division, considering its top-ranked team shouldn’t be top-ranked and is first playing the Golden Eagles from Oral
Roberts—whose odds of winning the tournament, incidentally, are five-sextillion to one. Davidson’s chances are a more reasonable 25 billion, but
those numbers come from the USA Today, so who knows how reliable they are.

No one can predict what will happen on Friday. I only hope that those unable to make the trip to
Ohio will keep the ’Cats on their minds and on the tube. Good luck Davidson.

Seniors reflect on season, NCAA

The Davidsonian: How did it feel to win this tournament in front of so many family members and friends?

Ian Johnson: Well, all of our dads have had tremendous impacts and influences on our lives. My dad has been
with me for my entire basketball career, and to win it in front of our fathers and families like that
was really a great feeling. It was great for...us to have them there when we won.

Matt McKillop: It was just such a special moment for me to be able to walk to the sideline after
the game and give my dad a big hug. It was something we had both dreamed about since I decided
I was going to come to school here. And it was unbelievable to be able to do it in front
of my family as well. My mom’s entire side of the family, which was just about 28 people, all made
the trip from all over the country to see us play. It was just amazing to have all my cousins,
grandparents, aunts, and uncles all there to be able to share that experience with me.

Brendan Winters: My dad has been the number one believer in me since day one in high school when no
one recruited me. And so to win a game like that and be able to play like that in the
title game was very special for me and for him.

TD: What was the low point of this season for you as a person and for this team? How did
you overcome it?

MM: I would have to say the Western Carolina game. Up until that point, we hadn’t lost a game on
this court in a while. I really felt like when we were playing in Belk Arena, we were playing with
a chip on our shoulders. But Western came in and out-toughed us, out-hustled us, and just outplayed us the entire
day.

BW: I think that’s when we started to realize that this is not how we wanted our final season to
go. This wasn’t what we had envisioned over the summer and over our last four years, so we knew we
had to regain focus and step up our play.

IJ: That was also when I started growing my beard. I really feel like we have picked up our intensity
ever since. If it worked for Roethlisberger, surely it could work for us.

TD: What seems to be an overarching theme for this 2005-06 Davidson basketball team?

BW: This is the time of our lives.

IJ: It’s all about making the most of it for us. Any Davidson senior can tell you that you really
just have to make the most of your last year here. It is a great place to be, and college
basketball is incredible. You just have to have no regrets.

MM: Not taking anything away from the underclassmen, this senior class has really rallied around each other and motivated and
encouraged our teammates. We have tried to do everything we can to get this team to where it has gotten.
So I think that for us, it has been about doing this the last time and doing it right.

TD: Was there any difference in the team’s preparation for the Southern Conference tournament this year after losing in the
semifinals last season?

IJ: Well, last year, after going 16-0, I think we definitely went into the tournament trying not to lose, instead
of trying to win. I think this year we certainly made a conscious effort to reverse that attitude.

BW: We also looked at how Chattanooga won the whole thing last year after having several conference losses. I think
that gave us confidence to know that we are just as capable of pulling that off as they were. Even
if we were the third seed, we just set our minds to it and didn’t look back from there.

MM: I know we were undefeated last year, but I think our confidence at being the best team in the
conference was higher this year. We knew that when we played together and played the way we practiced, we were
unstoppable. And that’s the team that showed up in the tournament.

TD: What has this week been like, being able to walk around campus not worrying about the NIT but knowing
about the NCAA tournament?

BW: Well, I know that last year, I didn’t even want to come to classes and have to deal with
everyone asking me, “What happened?” No one could really understand how hurt we were. This year was so much nicer
with everyone congratulating you and seeing all the support that we have around the school.

MM: I think that you really get a feel about what Davidson basketball means to this campus. When you have
a professor who moves class time around so that people can watch our game next week, it really makes you
feel like all your hard work has finally paid off and that everyone has just rallied around you.

TD: Playing in the NIT last year really seemed to motivate you guys to prove that you didn’t belong there,
and you won some games. Will it be hard to not accept that you’ve completed your goal and that the
NCAA tournament is just icing on the cake?

MM: I think that the emotion of this week has just been so unbelievable that we will carry this on
and be able to do something really special.

IJ: I think we have more to prove this year than going to the NIT. When you go to the
NIT, you are already second place in something. Our season is definitely not over yet. We have some more games
to play.

Interview by Will Bryan
