2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Adderall abuse is becoming more prevalent on college campuses nationwide.

ADD, from page 1

"I had been procrastinating on a paper and my roommate said I should try Adderall. So I went and took a pill,” an anonymous student said.

At Davidson, Adderall is sometimes sold or given away by students who have prescriptions. David McClay ’08 was diagnosed with Adult Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in elementary school. Though he has not been asked for his Adderall recently, he has been approached for it in the past.

“The most troubling situation was being approached by upperclassmen. I think they were trying to play the senior card, which made me really uncomfortable,” McClay said.

McClay decided to start hiding his Adderall after he caught a student attempting to steal his medication. “One time, I came back to my room and found my hallmate going through my medicine. When I came into the room, he shoved it into his pocket,” McClay said.

The extent of Adderall abuse at Davidson is uncertain. “It definitely doesn’t seem as rampant. I feel like around here if you want it, you need to search it out,” said an anonymous student who occasionally obtains Adderall from a friend.

Though Adderall abuse has become a reality on college campuses throughout the nation, many students believe the issue is not talked about sufficiently at Davidson. Some students feel like this can be attributed to Davidson’s strict Honor Code.

“It’s talked about a lot less. This may be part of the Honor Code because you feel like you’re bound to say something about it,” McClay said.

Using Adderall without a prescription violates the Code of Responsibility. Both the student distributing the drug and the student taking the drug illegally would be guilty of a violation.

“I don’t see why we wouldn’t treat it any differently than any other drug charge,” Assistant Dean of Student Life Ernest Jeffries said.

Though a Davidson student has never been charged with using Adderall illegally, the administration is aware that the issue exists. “I’m under no illusion that it doesn’t happen. I’m concerned about it because it’s dangerous and illegal,” Associate Dean of Student Life Katherine Bray-Merrell said.

Adderall was first developed during the 1970s and was marketed as a weight-loss medication under the name Obetrol. In 1996, it was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat ADD and ADHD. Adderall stimulates the central nervous system and increases the flow of dopamine and norepinephrine in the brain, which then causes an increase in focus and concentration.

“The main thing for me is not getting tired. Come 3 a.m. or 4 a.m., you get tired. On Adderall, though, it’s like it’s four in the afternoon,” an anonymous student said.

The drug may cause negative side effects, such as loss of appetite, dry mouth, headache, weight loss, and difficulty falling asleep. “[Adderall] is addictive; it’s an amphetamine, after all. It can be fatal if taken by someone with structural heart anomalies,” local psychiatrist Thomas M. Fitzgerald, M.D. said.

According to the FDA website, Canada removed Adderall from its drug market in February 2005 after reports surfaced of sudden unexplained deaths in children using Adderall who had underlying cardiac abnormalities. Adderall returned to the Canadian drug market in August 2005 with the warning that patients with underlying cardiac abnormalities should not use the drug.

“Students who use Adderall without a prescription are walking on dangerous ground. They should look at other avenues for getting the work done,” Student Counseling Center (SCC) Counselor Nance Longworth said.

The SCC provides resources for students who have ADD/ADHD, as well as for students without learning disabilities who may wish to improve their time management skills. According to Bray-Merrell, five percent of the student body requests accommodations, such as extended times for tests, because they have been diagnosed with ADD/ADHD. This statistic only represents the percentage of students who request accommodations. Therefore, the percentage of students with ADD/ADHD may be higher.

According to the National Resource Center on AD/HD, ADD/ADHD affects between three to seven percent of school-age children and two to four percent of adults. ADD/ADHD is characterized by problems with attention, overactivity, and impulsivity.

Endowment, Davidson, Duke, Furman, and Johnson C.

Budget, from page 1

...to the $1.2 million it receives from the Duke fund that supports Smith University. A request for unrestricted funds allows the college to spend the...money wherever it is appropriate. Vice President for Business and Finance Karen Goldstein said that the college also expects to match all increases in tuition with proportional increases in financial aid. “My personal goal is to decrease the percentage that students pay. We can do this through gifts and by endowment performance.” --President Bobby Vagt

“We are continuing to try to offer more financial aid to students. It’s important to be accessible to high-quality students,” Goldstein said. Financial aid is given for merit and athletics, although the number of athletic scholarships given by Davidson is typically lower than other Division I schools. The student budget increases at the same level as the tuition increase. The money for student activities is given to the Student Government Association (SGA). The Union Board also receives about half of the student activities budget.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2006

Concerts, Spring Frolics, April at the Lake, and September at the Lake are some of the activities sponsored by the Union Board. Former Union Board President Steven Gentile ’06 explained that each Union Board president decides which activities to sponsor. “The Union Board is considering taking on PS, a student restaurant,” Gentile said. While 20 percent of the budget is spent on student activities, over 40 percent of the budget is used for instruction.

The budget proposal asked for a 3.5 percent increase in faculty compensation. Because faculty salaries are nationally competitive, it is necessary for Davidson to look to comparable institutions as a standard. Faculty salaries take into account certain variables, particularly the rising cost of housing in the town of Davidson. Davidson has proposed a solution to high living expenses by making college-owned houses available for faculty to buy at a lower price. When the house is sold, it will become college property again. An additional 3.5 percent increase was requested for staff compensation, though determining sufficient salary increase for staff is difficult because hiring takes place locally rather than regionally or nationally.

The college also continually finds ways to cut back on expenses. It has created the Energy Savings Program, through which it has saved money by reducing and stabilizing the heating in each academic building.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

02/14/06 Parking Lot Solicitation
Officers were notified about several people putting flyers on vehicles in the lower parking area at Tomlinson Dormitory. The reporting officer spoke to a student about the flyers, and the student told him he was putting out flyers for a foam party to be held at the NV Nightclub and Lounge. The officer informed the student that the college’s solicitation policy did not allow this.

02/16/06 Ridge Road Crime Prevention
The Campus Police Department received information about an unauthorized shack located on college property. Officers located the building in the wooded area just off the Duke Power right of way on Ridge Road. The building was made of plywood and metal siding. The officers found a daily journal, a collection of books, a sleeping bag, incense, and several statues inside the building. Although no one was seen in the area, it appears that the building is being used as a place of religious worship.

02/16/06 Off-Campus Drug Possession
Officers reported to an off-campus residence because of a noise complaint and found several people drinking and playing loud music outside. One of the officers entered the apartment to ensure no alcohol had been given to underage persons, and upon entering, saw three marijuana bongs on a table in the common area in plain sight. One of the residents allowed his room to be searched, but the other declined. However, when an officer took this resident outside to use the bathroom, they threw a bag of marijuana into the woods. The officers put both students under arrest for possession of drug paraphernalia and secured the residence to seek a search warrant. Both suspects were taken to the Davidson Police Department for booking. The next day, the officers secured a search warrant for the residence. During the search, they found a small bag of marijuana under a nightstand and a plastic container containing several tablets of different sorts in a book bag. The officers contacted poison control and found that some of the tablets were a schedule II controlled substance. Further charges are pending on both suspects.

02/18 Patterson Court Fire Alarm
An officer was dispatched to Kappa Sigma in reference to a fire alarm activation. Upon arrival, an alumnus informed the officer that he accidentally set off the fire alarm by smoking in the house. The Davidson Fire Department checked the house and reset the fire alarm, and the alumnus was informed of the college’s policy on smoking in buildings.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety