Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Erik SWANSON
Staff Writer

The men’s and women’s tennis teams compiled a collective 3-0 record in matches in the past week, continuing their impressive play at home during the spring season. The men defeated Lees-McRae on Sunday by a 5-2 margin, while the women remained undefeated at home with a 6-1 victory over Liberty on Saturday and a 7-0 win against Queens yesterday.

The men’s team hosted Lees-McRae on Sunday in the first ever match between the two teams. Despite struggling so far this season in doubles, Davidson played well against Lees-McRae, winning all three matches. Flaviu Simihaian ’08 and Ethan Jaffee ’09 won easily at the top position, while Joe Cheaney ’06 and Phillip Compeau ’08 advanced with similar ease at the number three slot, winning 8-3 for Cheaney’s fifth doubles win of the season. John Bolton ’07 and Daniel Bermeo ’06 also held on, winning in a tiebreaker at the number two position.

“I thought the doubles was much improved,” said coach Jeff Frank. “That was probably the best doubles we’ve played across the board all season.”

While doubles has been a weakness for the Wildcats this season, singles has been a strong point, as the 'Cats demonstrated again on Sunday. Despite losses for Simihaian and Bolton at the one and five positions, Davidson managed to win four out of the six singles matches to clinch a 5-2 victory. The team’s two starting first-years were most impressive, as Jaffee and Scott Myers ’09 won 6-1, 6-1 and 6-1, 6-0, respectively. The win was Jaffee’s first singles victory of the season at number three.

“I give a lot of credit to Lees-McRae; those guys are really solid players,” said Frank. “But once again, our singles really came through for us, like it has all season.”

Frank, who has been head coach of the team for 34 years, announced on Monday that he will retire at the end of this spring.

Mr. Cat speaks out

By Mr. Cat
Guest Columnist

Fellow Wildcats,

I write to you today concerning the state of the Wildcat Nation. After a rigorous season of both men’s and women’s action, we boldly forge ahead to the Coastal Conflict, the Battle at the Beach, the South Carolina Scuffle, the War of SoCon Aggression...or just the 2006 Southern Conference Basketball Tournament, in Charleston, SC, if you want to be boring.

Ladies first: What a year full of fantastic victories, even in the face of injury. With the team lacking the play of Katie Hamilton ’07, I, Mr. Cat, witnessed our freshmen stepping up and contributing with some huge minutes and huge plays, as well as constant support from the crafty veterans. Look for big things out of the Wildcat women as they make a run at post-season glory.

Now for the men. After an undefeated season last year, the men have not had as easy a time this year. With star seniors like Brendan Winters and Ian Johnson, the ’Cats have put up some big numbers, such as the demolition of Missouri early in the season. Sure, there have been some heartbreakers, and some tough losses, but that means nothing going into the post-season. We have heart, we have talent (including some huge performances from sophomore bigs).men, Boris Meno ’08 and Thomas Sanders ’08), and we have one hell of a coach. Support our troops, our men and women in uniform. They need us, whether it is just an away message on AIM saying “Go Cats” (since your away messages are probably lame anyways), or a “good luck” to a player as they pass. Finally, I wanted to acknowledge two fans. First, Andrew Ruth ’07 for his consistent support and impeccable game-day fashion. He is always the first of the Cat Pack to arrive and last to leave and cheers with relentless enthusiasm. Second, I want to send mad props to the lady from the Pines who has somehow knitted “The Pines Loves Davidson Basketball” into a sweater. Talk about adorable. But I digress. The Nation... it is good and can only get better. Don’t forget; every day is a great day to be a Wildcat. Go Cats!

Mr. Cai resides in Davidson, NC, and currently is second to President Vagt in game attendance. He enjoys hanging out with the cheerleaders and doing the wave. To contact him, attend a basketball game.

State of the Wildcat
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2006

season. Frank has had the second longest tenure of any coach at Davidson, was inducted into the North Carolina Tennis Hall of Fame and is also the college’s all-time winningest coach. A 1966 Davidson graduate, he has been SoCon’s Coach of the Year four times.

The women’s team hosted Liberty on Saturday, hoping to bounce back from a 7-0 loss at Virginia Tech a week earlier. The Wildcats started well, winning all three doubles matches against the Flames, not allowing Liberty more than three games in any of the three matches. With the 1-0 lead, Davidson kept the pressure on in singles, taking five of the six singles matches in straight sets to clinch the win. Yesterday, the women looked to stretch their winning streak to two as Queens arrived at Knobloch Tennis Center to take on the ’Cats. Their opponents put up little fight, and the Wildcats improved their record to 5-3 overall with the 7-0 win. The women have only two non-conference matches remaining before kicking off the conference season against Georgia Southern on March 12. The ’Cats will take on Armstrong Atlantic and Charleston Southern in Charleston next week. The men’s team kicks off its conference season this weekend in Charleston with matches against College of Charleston and The Citadel.

Summer Housing at Davidson College

Planning to do research/work on campus? Planning to be employed in the area? Planning to attend classes at UNCC? Davidson can provide housing in MCF apartments for the entire summer or on a weekly basis at very competitive rates. Rent includes utilities, cable and internet hookups, kitchen facilities, and a private bedroom. Phone service includes one common line for all four residents. Cost for the full summer (12 weeks) is $1020, weekly $90 and daily $16.50. Applications will be available in RLO, Room 07, in Belk Basement beginning March 1st. They will be accepted until April 14th on a first-come, first-serve basis. You must submit (1) a completed application, along with (2) a $100 refundable damage deposit, and (3) a letter/e-mail from your professor/supervisor/employer stating your beginning and ending dates of employment and nature of your work in order for your application to be complete. Roommate preferences are accepted but not guaranteed. Questions may be directed to Judy Klein at x2341 or juklein@davidson.edu.