courtesy of College Comm

Mills announced changes to the English major at a meeting last Wednesday.

English, from page 1

adhere, consisted of 10 courses, five above the 300 level, with little concentration in any one area.

“It was tough because there were so many choices,” Mills said. “We didn’t want to inundate you with possibilities because
part of the joy is figuring out your own possibilities.”

“The new major offers more freedom. It’s in our interest to pick a cluster and focus on it to give
ourselves more direction in the major. Also, it’s good for those taking writing classes because now those courses help more
in fulfilling the requirements in the major.”

--Sara Sams ‘08

One of the changes will be the requirement of majors to complete both 240 and 220 by the end of
their sophomore year.

“I was one of those who advocated instilling more literary history,” Charles A. Dana Professor of English Cynthia Lewis said,
referring to the new 240 class, which will focus on Early and Middle British literature.

Professors will alternate teaching 240, 260, and 290.

Another change comes in the form of a requirement in writing or creative practice at the 200 or 300 level.

The department is working toward allowing a filmmaking course, more performance art, and classes like the Shakespeare Practicum to satisfy
that requirement.

Also, each student has the responsibility of creating a cluster of five electives in related fields of study to bring
focus within the major.

Examples of clusters suggested on the new advising form are Early British Literature, Poetry, and Creative Writing.

“The new major offers more freedom,” said English major Sara Sams ’08. “It’s in our interest to pick a cluster
and focus on it to give ourselves more direction in the major. Also, it’s good for those taking writing classes
because now those courses help more in fulfilling the requirements in the major.”

Most students seem satisfied, though mildly confused, as to the effect on their own studies.

Specifically, the new major may make it more difficult for sophomores who are double majoring to complete the required classes
in both departments.

“‘Praise in departing’,” Lewis said, referring to Prospero’s “The Tempest.” “You can’t compliment the food until you’ve tasted it.”

Lewis explained that the English department will have to adopt a wait-and-see policy as to the results of their endeavor.

Registration for classes begins today for all students.

English majors can expect to see an email from the department outlining the new major and explaining the requirements.

“I urge students to make appointments with their advisors and think about their clusters,” said Mills. “The main thing is
for students to take responsibility. We hope that the changes will make the major original for each student. It’s a
great opportunity.”

Engage, from page 3

Engage for a Change is also planning a campus sleep out on the night of Apr. 4.

“Students are asked to sign up to spend a night outside without shelter as a very visible demonstration of passion
for this issue,” Mader said.

Some events will also be ongoing throughout the program.

These include a photography and art gallery from the Artworks 945 program at the Urban Ministry Center, a theatre residency
by the Los Angeles Poverty Department in conjunction with the Urban Ministry Center, and an advocacy campaign including information and
letter writing focusing on two campaigns, the Affordable Housing Fund and the ONE campaign.

The program will conclude with an SGA-sponsored talk-back forum on Apr. 13.

The forum will provide students with the opportunity to reflect on the program’s events.

News

Category III Election Results

Junior Class President
A.J. Hergenroeder

Sophomore Class President
Richmond Blake

Junior Senators
Blake Poole
Ersag Keskin

Sophomore Senators
Brian Aoyama
Kate Sternstein

Sophomore Honor Council
Cary Wright
Lance Harden
Sally Stephenson

Junior Honor Council
Ginnie Fridell
Drew Patterson
Fiete Stegger

Senior Class President
Gagan Gupta

Senior Senators
Scott Buckhout
Bill Moore

Senior Honor Council
Bruce Henschen
Meredith Prasse
Sara Madison Davenport

ELON UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF LAW

Opening in Greensboro - August 2006

Now accepting applications for the charter class.

Website: law.elon.edu for complete information and online application

Toll-free: (888) ELON-LAW E-mail: law@elon.edu

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 2006

CREATING A NATIONAL MODEL OF ENGAGED LEARNING IN LEGAL EDUCATION

- Emphases on total student development, exceptional legal knowledge and skills, leadership and civic involvement, and international study
- Learning experiences in the area’s leading law firms, federal and state courts, businesses, government agencies, and nonprofit organizations
- Home of the North Carolina Business Court, which handles business litigation in the school’s courtroom and facilities
- Partner with the American Judicature Society's Institute of Forensic Science and Public Policy, a new national organization located near
the law school
