Commons sees increase in spring meal plan sales

By Emily Kota
Senior Staff Writer

This semester’s increase in meal plan purchases indicates a rise in popularity of Vail Commons following this summer’s renovation. While improvements were complete at the start of the fall semester, Director of Auxiliary Services Richard Terry maintains that “the spring numbers are a true indication of whether or not our renovation and new program truly hit the mark.”

Last fall, students had already made decisions regarding their dining options before arriving on campus and seeing the new Vail Commons. As hoped, the number of meal plans purchased this semester, 1209, is greater than the number purchased last year, 1105. While Terry acknowledges that more students are on campus, he attributes the bulk of the increase to improvements of the building and dining services program.

Terry also cites other measures of success. According to data, fewer students are choosing to use their meal plan in the Union Café during dinner hours. Additionally, the number of students using Bonus Bucks, Declining Balance dollars, and cash at Vail Commons has increased. These results have exceeded Terry’s expectations.

Even with the availability of dining options at Patterson Court Houses, kitchens in Martin Court, and off-campus establishments, around 75% of students still purchase some type of meal plan. Clark Candler, ’07, is a member of SAE but still has a meal plan. Candler said he is disappointed that “changes seem more artificial, rather than focused on improving food,” but continues to use the meal plan when he does not want to eat the food at his fraternity.

Turner House member Lauren Sher, ’07, heard that the new Commons arrangement was confusing while she studied abroad in Brazil last semester. Sher now eats some meals at the Patterson Court house, but she also bought a meal plan because she enjoys the variety of food options available at Commons. She said she was pleased to discover that “Commons has turned from a drab place to just get your food into a newer, livelier place to enjoy meals with friends.”

Chris Clark, ’07, just returned to campus this semester from Barcelona. Like Sher, he heard that Vail Commons was “difficult to navigate. An upperclassman felt lost.” Clark decided not to purchase a meal plan because “it’s easier to pay with cash, and then if I don’t use the meals, I still have the money.”

Overall, students have purchased more Senior, 5, Just 5, 10, and 19 meal plan options this semester. Only the 14 and 16 meal plans have decreased. The new Just 5 meal plan, a success, accounts for 3.5% of plans purchased and allows students to buy meals without any Bonus Bucks. The possibility of extending the no Bonus Bucks option to other meal plans next fall has been discussed, but no specific plans have been made at this point.

While pleased with the increase in meal plan purchases, Terry realizes that next fall, half the student body will not know about the “dreary interior” of the old Vail Commons and will not make comparisons between the old and the new facility. Students, however, will continue to judge the quality and the value of the service and food at Commons. “We can’t rest on our laurels,” Terry said. “We’ve enjoyed the honeymoon so far, but we know we have to be about continuous improvement.”

CCRL, from page 3

ternities last semester to register parties during the week,” Arnold said. “Since only two parties are allowed on campus during the week, it was creating a competition amongst fraternities that was unnecessary.”

Other members, including some professors, supported the rule because they feared that allowing more weekday parties would disturb studying and academic life on campus. After discussion, CCRL passed a motion to change the existing two-party rule to accommodate seven parties a week.

“This seems like a good compromise,” Union Board president Steven Gentile ’06 said. “There are typically no more than fiveor six parties in a week. Most students are happy about this.” The amendment to the policy is now in the hands of President Bobby Vagt, who is expected to come to a final decision soon. “Hopefully, President Vagt will decide to lift the two-party rule and allow more parties to take place during the week,” Armold said. According to Dean of Students Tom Shandley, the present policy was formulated to limit weekday functions and dates back at least ten years.

News
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2006

Juniors find shortage in on-campus housing
By AMANDA STEPHENS
Staff Writer

A shortage in on-campus housing has forced many juniors who have returned from abroad to live off-campus or in converted student lounges. Twenty-four students live in overflow housing on North Thompson Street, Concord Road, and Lorimer Road, and nine are living in converted lounges. According to Director of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano, one reason for the housing shortage is the discrepancy between the number of juniors studying abroad in the fall and the number who go abroad in the spring. This year, 162 juniors studied abroad in the fall, while only 74 went abroad during the spring semester. Marsicano also attributed a particularly large junior class to the housing shortage and cited that more women are affected by the shortage than men.

For many students returning from abroad, off-campus living provides a nice transition back into the Davidson lifestyle. “It wasn’t our choice to live off-campus, but our lottery numbers were low when we were returning to campus and so we didn’t get into our on-campus preferences,” Laura Broom ’07 said. “I really like the house we’re living in and I think it makes for a good transition from the very independent situation of studying abroad back to the Davidson bubble.” Ida Bastiaens ’07, another off-campus junior, said there are negative social implications of being off-campus. “I didn’t want to be off-campus and really hate feeling isolated from the rest of my friends, however the house is beautiful and comfortable and a wonderful refuge from life at Davidson,” Bastiaens said.

Utilities costs, wireless systems, and telephone number transfers make off-campus living more costly for RLO and sometimes more difficult for students. “We’ve had lots of issues with RLO these past couple of weeks,” Broom said. “We’ve had lots of problems getting internet access and cable access, dysfunctional plumbing, a cockroach infestation, RLO won’t provide us with a vacuum cleaner or a washer and dryer even though friends of ours in Davidson housing on Concord have all three of those, and RLO has been uncommunicative about certain actions they have taken.” “The actual ITS and maintenance staff members who have come to help us out have all been extremely considerate, and our RA is great, too. But I feel frustrated that Davidson guaranteed us proper housing and now we’re being confronted with a lot of issues and hassles that we wouldn’t face if living in a dormitory on-campus.”

Despite housing problems, many relish the independence living off-campus affords. “When we got the house on Concord Road I was pretty excited. RLO placed us with the exact people we requested, so I’m living with all of my friends,” Alex Robertshaw ’07 said. The housing shortage is expected to be even worse when Duke Residence Hall closes for renovation next year. To account for Duke’s renovation, Physical Plant is building eight new townhouses on Main Street, which will house 32 students.

Wondering what to do after graduation? What about the FELLOWS PROGRAM!? Be a full-time college employee for one or two years in a number of key areas campus-wide. The program has been established to provide a variety of challenging opportunities to work in a higher education setting.

* Information Technology Services
* Alumni Relations
* College Communications

Full time, Benefits, paid Vacation/Sick leave, Training & Development Opportunities. Only members of Davidson College Class of 2006 are eligible to apply.

https://jobs.davidson.edu