THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sorority, from page 1

Advisor Joy Hamm, Religion Professor Ann Wills, Student Body President Mac Skelton '07, Black Student Coalition President Brendan Watkins '07, and Patterson Court Council President Chris Dwyer '07 are on the committee, as well as students Whitney White '08, Cherita Jeffreys '08, Caroline Morgan '07, and Candace Coleman '08.

The committee sent letters to all four NPHC sororities, requesting proposals from the sororities.

The letters included information about Davidson and Patterson Court.

Goldstein speculates that the two sororities who didn’t respond were uncertain of succeeding at Davidson.

As Davidson is small and predominately white, the sororities may have been wary of starting a chapter here.

Before each presentation, on Tuesday and Wednesday, the committee will have dinner with the representatives from each sorority and will have the opportunity to interview them.

After the selection committee chooses a sorority to come to Davidson, the sorority will be invited to campus, and interested women can apply to the organization’s national headquarters for acceptance.

The application process differs from the process of being admitted to most sororities; applying to become a member is much like applying to be admitted to college.

Frimpong said that an NPHC sorority will bring Davidson’s minority women closer together.

“Amongst the many positive benefits of being in a sorority is the bond of sisterhood that it fosters,” Frimpong said. “These are young women who I truly desire to know on another level beyond just classmates, the women with whom I will grow and learn. I believe that the presence of this organization will promote the development of personal relationships across ethnic and social divisions that currently exist on campus and will encourage a sense of campus ownership among minority women.”

Charisma Loney '08 believes that an NPHC sorority will represent Davidson’s values.

“Davidson is an institution that prides itself on diversity and service, which are two of the many common characteristics that NPHC sororities share with the college,” Loney said. “Having this organization on campus would allow women of color to have a form of social ownership on campus, it will promote the interaction between Patterson Court members and women of color, and actively represent the social diversity of the campus.”

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2006

There has been a lot of controversy about allowing a sorority to come to campus.

As no sororities currently exist on campus, many students were against the idea of bringing one.

Some also felt that it would be unfair to allow a historically black organization when other sororities are not allowed.

However, Frimpong says that tension was much stronger when the topic was first raised.

“Once students and other members of the Davidson community began to understand the real issue and why it was so important that we have this addition to the campus, we received overwhelming support,” she said.

Loney agrees.

“The campus has been very supportive. I am truly thankful for all the encouragement and positive energy I have received from many individuals,” she said.

Mac Skelton can understand why some students feel that the decision wasn’t fair, but commented that the overwhelming support for the organization must not be overlooked.

“Will the historically black sorority be a positive addition to Davidson? Every single important decision-making body on campus found the answer to be yes,” Skelton said.

courtesy photo

Davidson College

Family Medicine
104 Knox Court —
704-892-5454

Our mission at Davidson Family Medicine is to provide comprehensive, personalized health care in a respectful, caring environment. Our services include gynecology/women's health care, pediatrics, male health care, and travel medical assessments with vaccines. We are located beside the Post Office and behind the Soda Shop.

Craig White, MD
Davidson Class '82

www.DavidsonFamilyMedicine.com

Sarah Carlson, MD

Planning to do research/work on campus?
Planning to be employed in the area?
Planning to attend classes at UNCC?

Davidson can provide housing in MCF apartments for the entire summer or on a weekly basis at very competitive rates. Rent includes utilities, cable and internet hookups, kitchen facilities, and a private bedroom. Phone service includes one common line for all four residents. Cost for the full summer (12 weeks) is $1020, weekly $90, and daily $16.50.

Applications will be available in RLO, Room 07, in Belk Basement beginning March 1st. They will be accepted until April 14th on a first-come, first-serve basis. You must submit (1) a completed application, along with (2) a $100 refundable damage deposit, and (3) a letter/e-mail from your professor/supervisor/employer stating your beginning and ending dates of employment and nature of your work in order for your application to be complete. Roommate preferences are accepted but not guaranteed.

Questions may be directed to Judy Klein at x2341 or juklein@davidson.edu.