THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2006

13

College basketball’s loss is Davidson’s gain

By Wilson McCrory
Sports Editor Emeritus

With job after job opening up in the past month as college basketball came to its annual conclusion, I kept waiting for Davidson coach Bob McKillop’s name to pop up in coaching searches around the country.

This past week, when N.C. State announced that Herb Sendek would be leaving the Wolfpack to coach at Arizona State, I could even see McKillop patrolling the sidelines of the ACC alongside Roy Williams and Mike Krzyzewski with the same red and black he sports here at Davidson.

“Basketball people know that Coach McKillop is the real thing,” ESPN analyst Jay Bilas told me a few weeks ago. “If I were making the decision as an AD, he’d be at the top of my list of coaches.”

And who wouldn’t want a guy that graduates virtually all his players, runs a clean program, and continues to notch great results despite academic and financial limitations that make Davidson one of the most difficult posts in the country?

Yet as 47 teams have already entered the job market looking for replacements — including high-profile schools like Oklahoma, Indiana, N.C. State, Seton Hall and Cincinnati — McKillop was a public candidate only for the Seton Hall position that ended up going to hot-shot Mid-Major coach Bobby Gonzalez of Manhattan.

Selfishly, I am glad that McKillop’s name hasn’t surfaced anywhere else. The success he has had at Davidson is nothing short of amazing, and Davidson would be hard-pressed to bring in anyone who could come close to duplicating his performance. Furthermore, I really don’t think McKillop has any intention of leaving.

At the same time, the reality that a guy like McKillop can’t get more than a nibble from High-Major programs like Seton Hall, St. John’s or other potential suitors from the past few years says a lot about the misplaced priorities in the college coaching market.

Unfortunately, it appears that most colleges are more concerned about winning the opening press conference with a big name than the basketball or baggage that comes with the hire.

Kansas State, for example, recently decided on former Cincinnati coach Bob Huggins despite his checkered past that includes a DUI, a 0.0 percent graduation rate and NCAA rules violations. The Bearcats even paid Huggins $3 million to leave because, according to President Nancy Zimpher, “Character counts.”

Indiana filled the position left by Mike Davis with Oklahoma’s Kelvin Sampson, a well-known coach with a not-so-solid 11-12 record in the NCAA tournament who also leaves behind recent NCAA rules violations at his former school.

The list goes on, and will likely soon include the aforementioned N.C. State if the Wolfpack can nail down a contract with current Memphis coach John Calipari. That’s the same Calipari who bolted UMass after one great tourney run for the NBA and has said he’s willing to listen to other job offers every off-season while at Memphis.

While each of these high-profile hires will likely appease donors and create a swell of enthusiasm for programs in relative turmoil, they further exacerbate the problem that plagues the coaching world today.

Instead of rewarding simple merit, the hiring process forces coaches to play their own version of musical chairs as a rite of passage to the top of the coaching world.

For High-Major coaches like Calipari that means moving around until he gets the best offer, while for others like former SoCon peer Buzz Peterson it means working up the ladder with quick stops along the way. Peterson left Appalachian State for a step up to Tulsa after his lone SoCon tournament championship in 2000, and he used a one-year pit-stop with the Golden Hurricane to earn a spot on the Tennessee bench the following season.

McKillop could have followed the same path last year by further pursuing the opening at Richmond, an Atlantic-10 school that offers similar academic strengths as Davidson but a slightly stronger basketball profile. That spot was vacated by another climber — Jerry Wainwright — who went from UNC-Wilmington to Richmond to DePaul in a matter of three seasons.

If McKillop were to have accepted the job in Richmond, it probably wouldn’t have taken much longer for him to move past the A-10 to a place like the ACC or Big East if he wanted to make the move.

His refusal to play the game of musical chairs, though, likely cements his place on the Davidson sidelines until he finally decides to call it quits. While McKillop is as good with the X’s and O’s as any coach in America, he’ll never be the big-name hire that schools disputatively crave.

While that’s good news for Wildcat fans, it’s a sad commentary for the rest of college basketball.

---

BE A LEADER AMONG LEADERS

With your bachelor’s degree, you can become an Army Officer and be a leader among leaders. In Officer Candidate School (OCS), you'll learn management and leadership techniques. Apply now. Openings are limited.

>> Call Sgt. 1st Class Powers at 563-0560 to find out about college loan repayment and more Army benefits.

---

Congratulations Seniors!

The Senior Class Gift has reached 83% paid participation!

Only 36 more gifts are needed to set a new Senior Class Gift participation record!

Please visit our website at www.davidson.edu/giving to make a gift online.

CONTACT LIZ KISS AT LIKISS@DAVIDSON.EDU WITH QUESTIONS!

Seniors, don’t forget: Wednesday, April 19th Senior Banquet Sponsored by Alumni Relations 7:00 pm reception, 8:00 pm dinner Vail Commons