4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Andy Agcaoili

Serving as the Freshmen and Junior class president, I have always been enthusiastically involved in the Student Government Association because
it is a body of representatives capable of making significant changes on campus. Since I was elected, I have tried
to represent the student body as a whole by offering my input. This is why I am running. An SGA
president should be approachable and open to the suggestions of ANY student. Also, the SGA president should work well with
others and must have good social skills, since he or she is a representative of the school. More goals will
be created at the SGA retreat, but some of my goals include: open more communication between students and the food
venues on campus; increase school spirit through teaching cheers and encouraging attendance at school events; evaluate the possibility of a
late-night laundry pickup; and increase the number of washers and dryers and create a better system for laundry rooms. With
my previous experience on SGA, I realize that the president should create realistic goals that represent the interests of the
student body as a whole. I feel that I am very qualified to represent the students of Davidson College as
the student body president. If you have any concerns, please don’t hesitate to contact me.

Evan Kreutzer

There’s a reason SGA is the second most disliked organization on campus: its proceedings are too mired in bureaucracy to
ever accomplish anything. Its bylaws are 30 pages of indecipherable convolution, and its powers are divided between 21 committees, many
of which overlap. No one knows who’s in them; no one knows what they do. It is this bureaucracy that
keeps SGA from making concrete improvements in students’ lives. As an SGA senator and class president, I have consistently fought
to bring about changes in this bureaucracy. As SGA President, I will see that these changes are finally made. With
the red tape gone, we will finally be able to accomplish what students want. As SGA president, I will: fight
to bring kegs back to campus; petition the Board of Trustees to improve the sophomore apartments; start initiatives to promote
campus-wide environmental responsibility; and extend Baker Sports Complex hours, turning the indoor tennis courts into a late-night facility for students,
including basketball and volleyball courts or even a bowling alley. This is what students want, and this is what I
propose. I will change the bureaucracy of the senate from the inside out and create concrete changes in students’ lives.
SGA is a reactive organization—it’s time we make it proactive.

Blake Poole

We as students deserve better! In a poll that recently surveyed Davidson students, we ranked SGA as the second most
disliked organization on campus. This means that the students we have elected have not, by our judgment, carried out their
jobs to the best of their ability. As an organization, SGA needs to communicate better to the student body as
well as listen to our concerns. I want to make SGA an organization that fights for student issues rather than
individual interests. For example, I believe SGA shied away from reaching a compromise with the administration over the Chemistry and
Physics lab closings. SGA could have done more! If you elect me President, I plan to hold each representative accountable
to their job. I want to reform elections, have forums and discussions on policies, and organize support behind student concerns.
I will make sure that we as an organization represent you! SGA has the ability to make a huge difference
on campus, and with your support, I plan to make these changes. I believe that I have the vision and
motivation to change our student government. I worked incredibly hard with others to transform CatPack into an organization that came
up with programs like “Wildcat Pride” and “A Night with the Cats.” I want to bring the same kind of
vision of change to SGA. Please elect me, Blake Poole.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2006

I’m running for SGA President because I passionately care about Davidson students. Last semester, I served as chair of the
Student-Faculty Relations Committee and made it a useful forum for conversation between students and professors. I initiated monthly Student-Faculty dinners
and restarted the Friday Afternoon Club. As President, I plan to increase SGA contact with students by establishing an SGA
newsletter, using the SGA email account to keep students informed, and holding discussions with students once a week at Commons.
I will address issues such as student mental wellness, the use of CAT-TV, student transportation to the airport, and expanding
Baker/Richardson hours. I have spent the past several months exploring the issues important to Davidson students and community life. Having
consulted with President Vagt and other administrators, I know that my ideas are feasible and they will benefit the Davidson
College community as a whole. I have the energy, boldness, and tenacity to mold it into a vehicle for student
voice and accomplishment. We should not see ourselves as mere stockholders in a company with a vote here and there
on policy. Rather, we are the very essence of life at this college. And with my leadership, we will thrive.
While SGA did some positive things during my two years...As a senator, I believe that its potential to affect positive
change is yet to be reached. I’d like to move closer to that goal by providing a fresh vision for
SGA.

First, SGA needs to overhaul some of its internal aspects. Among other things, we need to rewrite the now 30-year-old
SGA bylaws, change SGA’s relationship with CCRL, revamp elections to produce the best possible candidates, and raise accountability over the
attendance and work of senators.

Secondly, if SGA is to accomplish anything of significance, it must emphasize a collaborative approach that involves the entire community.
Important issues should be brought out through open forums and small discussion groups. The SGA should also work with other
student organizations and governing bodies such as the PCC, UB, BSC, UCA, and EAC.

Finally, SGA, in conjunction with the rest of the student body, must face certain issues that have been considered outside
of SGA’s reach but are vital to the health of the college, such as promoting more friendship and understanding between
certain groups (minorities and non-minorities, athletes and non-athletes, etc.), making Davidson more socially active and aware, and improving environmental policies
on campus.

2006 SGA Vice-Presidential Candidates

Chris Burton

Isn’t it ironic that RLO and SGA, the entities that shelter and represent the students, are the two most disliked
organizations on this campus? Obviously, there is a general sense of dissatisfaction with both organizations. Instead of the usual political
jargon, I introduce a method of deconstruction. Instead of simply making requests of the administration, I will discover why issues
remain unresolved. Once we have a list of reasons why not, we can systematically nullify each rationale until our goals
are met.

For example, several students suggested extending the hours of Baker Sports Complex. I discussed this with Dean Shandley who pointed
out a more energy-efficient option. We could possibly add basketball goals to the Nisbet Tennis Courts, which use less power.
My plan is clear and simple: if I am elected as your Vice President, students will finally become interested in
SGA because SGA will finally live up to its responsibility of serving student needs.

To achieve this goal, SGA must become a transparent organization. My plans include maintaining an up-to-date SGA website with minutes,
voting records, and a system to calculate approval ratings for each SGA member. No longer will people merely hold office;
they will now need to hold your faith as well. It is my belief that if people are ineffective, they
do not need to represent you.

Josh Choi

Greetings, Davidsonians! My name is Joshua Choi, and I’m running for SGA Vice-President. It has been my privilege to be
able to listen to and voice your concerns during my two years as your SGA senator. As many of you,
I love Davidson. I have always enjoyed having close relationships with faculty and being in a family-like atmosphere within the
realm of our academic and social lives.

It is true that Davidson has wonderful academic systems which help and encourage students to explore and develop their fields
of expertise; however, there are certain aspects of Davidson academic policies in need of reformation. For instance, assigning a professor
as your first academic advisor usually unrelated to your intended major or not being able to receive credits for summer
internships show some of the weaknesses of our academic policies. Furthermore, there are other non-academic inconveniences that could be changed:
more comfortable chairs in Vail Commons, water fountains at the outdoor basketball court, 24-hour laundry drop-off systems, and more accessible
ITS help are included in but not limited to possible improvements.

Through my deep involvement in SGA, an internship under a U.S. Senator, and my role in being the campaign manager
for Teach for America, I have gained skills in management and the ability to think critically and solve problems. Better
communication with the student body and faculty is a necessity for the SGA to be successful. Right now, our school
is made of multiple bodies, with SGA, the students, and the faculty all holding their own. I will strive to
bring these three groups together into a more symbiotic relationship.

Beaux Jones

As Vice President, I will strive to get the most out of each member of SGA. I will make sure
the Senate Committees are actively getting things done for the student body. I believe in the SGA and that it
has the capability to change this school in a positive manner, but most students do not know how to interact
with people. I am a man of passion, and as your Vice-President, I will invest my whole self in the
interest of the student body. It is time to give the students the organization that they deserve.

Last year’s SGA worked hard to get the organization pointed in the right direction; I will happily accept the challenge
of moving much further in that direction. I will not make false promises to win your vote; the only thing
that I will promise is that I will be open to all students’ suggestions and I will work hard to
make Davidson College a happier, safer, and more exciting place to study. I do not claim to be the most
tenured member of SGA running for Vice-President; however, I am honest and hard-working, and I know how to interact with
people.
