THE DAVIDSONIAN

Gas prices: the power is yours

“The price of gas is ridiculous!” Yeah, yeah, yeah. Europeans would gladly pay our gas prices, but that isn’t our
concern. We are worried about the imminent summer months and the inescapable driving. So shall we just sit around and
complain? Or maybe we should do that Democrat versus Republican thing. Or we could just rail on President Bush. That
would be fun.

On Friday, Bush said that he refuses to tax oil companies’ record profits, but he said, “My attitude is that
the oil companies need to be mindful that the American people expect them to reinvest their cash flows in such
a way that it enhances our energy security.” Need to be mindful?! Right. Oil companies investing in alternative energy sources.
That’s a good one. Is that a paradox or an oxymoron?

How about a $100 rebate to taxpayers to cushion the cost of gas? That will probably buy about 20 to
25 gallons of gas when demand spikes by late summer as families load up their buses and head to the
coast. We could build new refineries since this has not been done since the 1970s. The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge
sounds promising. According to the U.S. Geological Survey, there are about 10 billion barrels of oil to be had from
2,000 acres, which is less than one-half of one percent of the entire refuge (which is 20 million acres).

At least the Bush administration has not instituted price controls. Since good ol’ supply and demand have been left in
charge, there have been no gas lines or shortages like there were in 1979 under the Carter administration (when prices
were controlled). But Bush is trying to fool demand by stopping new deposits to U.S. oil reserve tanks until after
the summer driving season. This quick fix (like the rebate) points to a looming monster for which we should have
been preparing long ago. So now Bush says, “These oil prices are a wake-up call... We need to get off
oil.” Um...hello? And now he wants Congress to give him the power to set fuel standards for passenger cars so
as to reduce demand for gas. Another temporary solution.

The real solution? It lies in our hands. Yes, you and me. The only people who can fix the huge
demand for gasoline are you and me. So are we going to go home (or wherever) this summer and thoughtlessly
drive around like we always have and merely groan as we refill our tanks? Well, we’ll be fueling the problem.
Carpool, consolidate trips, trade in for smaller and/or hybrid cars. A little less peeling out and revving at stop lights.
A little more walking, biking, and using public transportation, if possible. We are the proud capitalists who hold the keys
to supply and demand. So let’s spank demand, and let’s support alternative energy sources (like ethanol, biodiesel, hydrogen, and the
plug-in hybrid car).

Carey Baxter ’08 is a physics major from Monkton, Md. Contact her at cabaxter@davidson.edu.

PERSPECTIVES

Commencement:
By Matt Allen
Guest Columnist

As a member of the senior class, I have approximately eleven days left to enjoy the life of an undergraduate.
On May 14, I will walk across the stage beneath the soaring oaks of Chambers lawn with around four hundred
of my fellow seniors and travel into a somewhat frightening place that has been given the ominous title of “the
real world.” Ironically enough, we use the word commencement, whose root word means “to have or make a beginning,” to
describe this weekend where Davidson’s class of 2006 will come together for one last time.

So how does Davidson honor the end of an incredible four years of growth in knowledge and character? The same
way it began the four years, with a speech by President Bobby Vagt. I am not trying to suggest that
I will not continue to cherish the President’s constant words of wisdom echoed throughout my four years here. However, what
I am trying to suggest is that maybe we should reward the graduating students with a complimentary message given by
a fresh face; a message that may ultimately spark memories that last a lifetime. This is not a lightly-made suggestion
meant to undermine the quality of our president’s eloquence or articulation; it is instead a reflection that comes from personal
experience and real conviction.

I know I will always remember my high school commencement speaker for his poignant words of wisdom, yet for some
reason my headmaster’s comments that followed seem to get blurred with the many speeches and the pieces of advice that
I had received from him on a personal level. Originally, the argument was made to get rid of the Commencement
Day speaker in the early 1960s in an effort to make the graduates the main focus on Commencement weekend. This
argument soon became a reality when an exceptionally long-winded speaker dragged on endlessly, boring students and guests alike. Well, can
we not set a rigid time limit for guest speakers? I mean we definitely allow guests to speak at other
events.

Davidson liberals

Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce one of the most powerful forces in the universe. It’s called irony and
it wields a baseball bat of Bambinan proportions.proportions. But where are my manners? Let me start with a word of
congratulations to a distinguished Davidson alumnus. My salutations to Robert A. “Tony” Snow, Davidson Class of 1977, upon being named
White House Press Secretary last Wednesday. In his time here, it seems that Snow was, to borrow a phrase, “distinctly
Davidson.” President of his senior class, Eu Society, pep band, hall counselor, Vereen Bell winner, filmmaking award winner, Delta Sigma
Rho debate honor society, Omicron Delta Kappa leadership honor society, and a downright upstanding Davidsonian, Mr. Snow represents the ideals
of everyone here at Davidson. Right? Aren’t we all proud to say we are following in the footsteps of Mr.
Snow? Won’t we all be contacting him about internships with FOX after we graduate? After all, we are one of
the most conservative elite colleges in the nation. And before you sputter the phrase “liberal arts” and stress the first
word so hard you pop a gasket, I’ll thank you to differentiate between political and educational contexts for the term
“liberal.” The unfortunate fact is that Davidson is, in 2006, one of the most conservative colleges out there. We don’t
hold a candle to Liberty or Bob Jones. But every time I return to Asheville, which I affectionately call a
chunk of California misplaced on the East Coast, friends make an assumption. “You must be really happy at such a
conservative school. That’s gotta be a perfect fit for you.” Well, they got the second part right. I love Davidson
and I’m happy to be here. But in no way do I find our school to be the bastion of
Republicans and Bible-thumpers it seems other colleges think we are. I have shocked people repeatedly by giving the statistic from
last year’s campus poll: Davidson voted for Kerry over Bush 58-35. News to us? Heck no. To the rest of
the world, though, the red of Davidson’s logo might as well be the same shade South Carolina gets painted on
ABC every four years.

WEDNESDAY, May 3, 2006

Isn’t it time for change under a time constriction and without the fear that he or she may break this
constriction and ultimately bore the audience? And is it not the point of a Commencement speaker to bring in someone
who will not only highlight the accomplishments of the class on whose behalf he or she is speaking, but to
also give the class a public representative to be remembered by? We should reward the graduating students with a complimentary
message given by a fresh face; a message that may ultimately spark memories that last a lifetime. Isn’t the point
of a Commencement speaker to honor the graduating class, or in other words, to place an emphasis (a.k.a. focus) on
the graduates? A Commencement speaker is a time-honored tradition valued by most colleges and universities around the country. Aren’t we,
as seniors, entitled to bring an esteemed member of society to stand in recognition for the class? The fact that
we spend three hours on a single day to recognize the success of four years of hard work demonstrates the
importance of this celebration. We pay a ridiculous amount of money to bring Bob Dylan and others to Davidson College
in order to spend a night appreciating their musical endeavors and talents, why can’t we spend a similar amount of
money on someone who will reward the graduating class with a powerful intellectual reflection that will reverberate for many years
to follow? In an effort to truly “let learning be cherished,” Davidson College should ask the students, the people who
are ultimately affected the most by this outdated decision, if it is time to once again take a look at,
and quite possibly, change, our policy towards Commencement Day speakers.

Matt Allen '06 is an English major from Crofton, Md. Contact him at maallen@davidson.edu.

Outfoxed by Snow

So would they be surprised that Tony Snow is a Wildcat? Not really. But I certainly have gotten a chuckle
out of it. I mean, look at it. You have a college that’s close to 2-1 against Bush by student
vote (I dare not speculate on faculty votes...but I will observe that Bush would likely have guffawed at this fall's
Yowl) suddenly proudly touting the face of FOX and now PR man for Dubya. Forgive me, but did I notice
more than one perspectives article this semester that associated a mean word or two with FOX, the President, or both?
Somewhere between press release and campus opinion, Davidson pulled a switcheroo.

DAVIDSON. Tony Snow '77, speaking at Davidson in 2002.

Is it a coincidence that the audience for Bill Kristol’s lecture earlier this semester comprised easily as many senior citizens
as it did students? Look, we all know where I stand personally: firmly on the right (note: on, not in).
But shockingly, I value the left, even beyond the entertainment of their cute primaries every presidential electoral year. And frankly,
I’m tired of the reverse not being true. Let’s really celebrate Tony Snow. Let’s really talk about issues instead of
letting the louder argument carry the day. And most of all, let’s not talk smack about FOX without a dose
of criticism of CNN and the New York Times, too.

Nathan Bradshaw '08 is an English major from Swannanoa, NC. Contact him at nabradshaw@davidson.edu.
