10 PERSPECTIVES THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2006

Staff Editorial

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

RLO report card

Recognize sacrifice

In fairness to the two fraternities under scrutiny, we have...

With housing lottery approaching, The Davidsonian has assessed the Residence Life Office’s performance in meeting student housing needs.

Sophomore Apartments: D
The last major renovation to the sophomore apartments was in 1996. Given that most dormitories are on a 10-year renovation cycle, the sophomore apartments are going to be torn down and replaced with “sophomore suites” this summer. Right? Wrong. By pouring money into tree removal and sidewalks, RLO has resorted to superficial and temporary changes to Irwin, Akers, and Knox. What the sophomore apartments really need is a complete overhaul.

Duke Renovations: A-
Although Duke Residence Hall will be under construction for over a year, the result should be worth the wait. The new dorm will help alleviate the housing crunch and will house the Dean Rusk International Studies Center. Duke will also have a third-floor terrace and a courtyard for small concerts and other events. The integration of space for housing and student activities reflects long-term, creative vision from RLO. Such vision should be the rule, not the exception.

Main Street Town Homes: B+
While Duke is decorated in yellow tape next year, disrupting the housing dynamic, 32 students will live in the Main Street Town Homes. We are concerned that these students will be isolated from the rest of campus. RLO must anticipate potential problems, such as accessibility to laundry facilities, early, rather than react to them next fall. In the long run, the town homes will provide more affordable housing for staff and faculty members. We applaud the college for addressing community housing needs.

Public Image: C-
RLO has some major image problems. In a survey from last semester, RLO received the lowest score of nine organizations. This is unsurprising, as most students will encounter dorm room difficulties at some point. But the severity of dissatisfaction warrants attention. Many students view RLO as arbitrary in its decision-making, especially in regard to room changes, off-campus housing permission, and other individual requests. If this perception is a reality, RLO must be more consistent and evenhanded. Irrespective of the perception, RLO must better communicate its reasoning to all students.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editorial Staff
Editor-in-Chief: Daniel Hayes
Managing Editor: Sarah Duncan
News Editors: Kate Gillespie, Lexi Hamilton, Jackie McKeon
Perspectives Editors: Halley Aelion, Neel Skaria

Before judging

I was content to ignore Joshua Choi's criticisms of both Davidson and America (“School Honor Code promotes hypocrisy,” Feb. 1), but then I read that President Bush had been "killing thousands of young American soldiers for nothing[.]" I wonder how many deployed American servicemen Mr. Choi personally knows; if he asked them, would they agree with him that their uniformed brothers and sisters have died "for nothing"?

My brother is an infantry officer in the Marine Corps and since my senior year of high school, he has completed three deployments to Southwest Asia and is now on the eve of his fourth. He has been in combat and, on at least one occasion, has almost been killed in action. He has lost friends and classmates from VMI. But he has also spoken with Iraqis and Afghans and seen sincere gratitude in their eyes for the sacrifices that he and his Marines make every day for utter strangers who will probably never be able to return the favor. Because of this and more, I know he does not believe that his time overseas has been fruitless or that his comrades died in vain, and I know many Iraqis and Afghans don't believe that, either.

If Mr. Choi is searching for honor in America, as his column suggested, may he look to the men and women of the U.S. military. And instead of trying to blindly cheapen their sacrifices, I would much rather see Mr. Choi sit down with some soldiers and Marines and their families and ask them why they volunteered for the military, what they believe their purposes are in Iraq and Afghanistan, and if they think that their deaths would be meaningless. As a brother to a U.S. Marine and as a friend to numerous other servicemen, I would appreciate it. So would they.

Pete Benbow ’07

PCC responds to support KA, APA

Article II of the Patterson Court Council (PCC) bylaws states that one of the purposes of PCC is to “promote the interests of the fraternities and eating houses represented at Davidson College.” Therefore, it is the duty...of PCC not only to promote the interests of two fraternities who have come under recent scrutiny in The Davidsonian, but also to recognize that their interests are in line with all other fraternities and eating houses at Davidson College. In the PCC bylaws, the first section on membership states that “No member organization shall refuse any person an opportunity at a membership based upon their race, color, religion, creed, age, handicap, sexual orientation or national origin.” The reality of PCC houses is that every single house obeys these words, inviting every student to consider joining a PCC house. We will highlight one more statement that is important to PCC. The second purpose of PCC is to “promote the mission of Davidson College.” Written in 1937, the College mission states that Davidson “welcomes students, faculty and staff from a variety of nationalities, ethnic groups and traditions.” In our personal experiences with all fraternities and eating houses on campus, we believe that every single house promotes the College’s mission and that no house in PCC is exclusive on the basis of race. We appreciate The Davidsonian’s unbiased report about the perception of PCC as having exclusive organizations and implore Davidson College students to reflect upon the reality of the situation described in the above paragraphs. We also encourage students who have a negative perception of a particular PCC organization to pursue an understanding with the leadership of those organizations. Included are the following statements that we hope will foster an understanding of these organizations’ purposes.

The KA Sigma Chapter proudly upholds and advances the Davidson traditions of understanding, tolerance, and service. The Kappa Alpha Order will continue to volunteer, teach, coach and humbly serve Davidson College and our surrounding community.
-Mill Graves, President, Kappa Alpha

The Tau Omicron Chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Inc. looks to maintain a professional image of our organization. We promote diversity, community service, academic excellence, and uphold our cultural heritage with pride. Alpha supports and encourages all students to learn about our fraternity via Awareness Seminars or our enriching programs. As President, I will ensure our future holds more opportunities for Alpha and Davidson to understand each other on a more intimate level.
-Brendan Watkins, President, Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc.

Patterson Court Council

Bookstore prices unreasonable

I am really happy Colleen McKown chose bookstore sales as a topic of interest for this campus (“College bookstore sees decrease in book sales,” Feb. 1). The high cost of books is an important issue because so many students, myself included, can’t afford a meal plan, let alone the ridiculous cost of textbooks. After spending $600 on books last semester, my mom told me I had to order my books online or I would have to pay for them myself. While we’re not poor, I have three younger brothers coming to college after me, and $1,200 a semester is almost $5,000 for all four years. I can’t even list all the more useful and lasting things the money can buy. I emailed my professors and they immediately gave me the titles and editions I needed. I searched half.com and spent $100 on books for all of my classes! It’s not the joy and excitement of shopping online that made me avoid the bookstore, but respect for my parents, who already shell out $40,000 a year. It still seems unreasonable to charge so much for an education. Also, the bookstore gives us receipts where it says clearly when we return our books we should get 50 percent back of what we paid. Last semester, however, no one even looked at my receipt, and I was given $30, as if that would shut me up. Most of us are so busy that we don’t have time for even part-time jobs, and Davidson is supposed to be great about giving money for those who need it. So why is nothing being done about this? We can’t go to class without our books. Instead of forcing us to pay $5,000 and printing up little receipts that blatantly lie, how about someone doing something to help us out a little bit?

Marian Schembari ’09

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor. Please e-mail submissions of fewer than 250 words to davidsonian@davidson.edu by Sunday night. We reserve the right to edit for content, brevity and grammar. Anonymous letters will not be printed.

Correction: The caption on the front page of the Jan. 25 issue of The Davidsonian reads “Members of the Black Student Coalition met with Rev. Moss after Convocation.” It should say “Members of Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity met with Rev. Moss after Convocation.”