THE DAVIDSONIAN - NEWS
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 2006

Recycle, from page 1

Delta Theta said they throw cans and trash in the same bin during house clean up. Several pledges from Kappa Alpha and some freshmen members of Connor Eating House also said that they often do not recycle. There is currently no recycling policy to which the fraternities and eating houses must adhere. Patterson Court Council President Chris Dwyer ’07 said that “the houses are strongly encouraged to recycle.”

The senior apartments are another area on campus where recycling has been a problem. Unlike the rest of campus housing, the janitorial staff does not clean the senior apartments. Instead, the seniors are responsible for taking their trash and recycling to the bins behind the dorms. According to Blake and the recycling report, seniors often do not recycle, or they contaminate the recycling bins with articles like cardboard pizza boxes, which cannot be recycled.

Blake’s original goal was to put outdoor recycling bins around campus. Members of the Physical Plant, however, said that the SGA must improve the current recycling program before they would provide new bins. SGA is currently discussing improvements to the current recycling program, including new recycling bins for incoming first-years. SGA has been working with Associate Dean of Students and Director of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano to get small blue recycling bins next year for all of the first-year rooms. First-years will still need to sort paper and plastic into the hall bins, but Blake said the dorm room bins will discourage the incoming class from placing their recyclable bottles and papers in their trash receptacles.

SGA and the EAC are also working to produce a video to be shown next fall during orientation that will show the proper and improper ways of recycling. Blake said he wants the video to be humorous and enjoyable to watch, and hopes that the video will help to get freshmen in the habit of recycling. Marsicano told SGA that if a significant improvement in recycling takes place on freshmen halls next fall, the Residence Life Office is prepared to purchase bins for the whole school. In addition, Assistant Director of Building Services Barbara Zaionz has agreed to the installation of a large recycling bin in the Union with slots for batteries and ink cartridges in addition to paper, plastic, and glass. Efforts are also being made to encourage more people to use their Cat Cupps by making next year’s models smaller and more stylish.

The Physical Plant puts recycling bins on each hall and in Patterson Court houses.

Speed limit reduced on South Main Street
By EMILY KOTA
Senior Staff Writer

The speed limit on South Main Street in Davidson is now 25 mph, reduced from 35 miles per hour. Police officers began warning Davidson locals of the change last week before the new speed limit signs were erected. Davidson resident and History Department chair Dr. Sally McMillen praised the change. “It’s an excellent idea,” McMillen said. “The speed limit change on Main Street was part of the plan to calm traffic in the entire town.”

Mallory Nobles ‘07, former Town Hall intern Ellen Garfield ’07 recently received a speeding ticket on interstate 421 shortly after the speed limit changed from 65 miles per hour to 55 miles per hour. “I have a court date and hundreds of dollars in classes and court fees, but I also literally drive under the speed limit now,” Garfield said. While Garfield is frustrated with unexpected changes in the speed limit along the highway, she adds, “I think the reduction in speed is more understandable on Main Street than it was on I-421 because in Davidson there are homes with children, students, and joggers constantly on the road.”

The speed limit reduction is due in part to the efforts of the Traffic Calming Committee, which was founded by local citizens in May 2004. The town of Davidson’s website states that the purpose of the Traffic Calming Committee “is developing a system by which streets that need traffic calming can be identified, prioritized, designed, and funded.” According to Sara-Lynne Levine, of the Davidson Town Hall Public Information Office, “Neighbors requested the change as part of the traffic calming plan.” The change was approved by the Department of Transportation. Levine said that the group was set up out of the town Planning Department. The town website states, “The Planning Department is dedicated to preserving Davidson’s essence as a small town.”New development must be walkable, sustainable, and designed to enhance the life of the community.” Mallory Nobles ’07 interned at Town Hall. See Speed, page 4.

Skelton sets forth goals
By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

Newly elected Student Government Association president Mac Skelton ’07 seized the opportunity to outline the organization’s goals for the semester at the February 16 meeting. Working from a packet compiled by the outgoing Ryan Arnold ’06 administration, Skelton reviewed SGA’s recent accomplishments and pinpointed issues upon which he hopes to focus until the fall of 2006.

“Because we don’t have the [SGA] retreat until fall, the spring semester becomes directionless,” Skelton said. He said he hoped reviewing and tweaking the previous administration’s goals would allow SGA to achieve a focus for the spring semester.

Skelton addressed the organization’s internal efficiency, an issue that arises in every administration. “This is an ongoing goal for every administration; we’re never going to check it off the list,” he said. Skelton called for a committee to prepare a report reviewing SGA elections in preparation for the upcoming March elections. He then addressed the ongoing issues surrounding the SGA bylaws, again calling for a committee to formulate a solid plan of action to bring before the body.

Skelton hopes that relying on committees to investigate issues before discussing them will save wasted debate during meetings, thereby allowing SGA to cover more material during its meetings. The senators next discussed means through which they might increase communication with the student body. Discussion centered on installing an SGA publicity bulletin board in the Union and acquiring a suggestion box to be placed outside of the SGA office. “It will give us a real visible presence on campus,” said senator Christina Evans ’06.

The relationship between SGA and the Committee on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) also came up during discussion. Skelton proposed the institution of a two-week lapse between a CCRL resolution and President Vagt’s final decision, during which time period SGA could review the issue at hand and offer its opinion. The legitimacy of this concern was questioned by other meeting attendees, however. “It’s rare that [Vagt] acts that quickly,” Vice President of Student Life and Dean of Students Tom Shandley said.

SGA then addressed its ongoing efforts to improve campus environmental policies. The senators discussed next year’s in-room recycling bin pilot program for freshmen halls and the feasibility of producing an environmental awareness video for the incoming freshman class. The senators also debated instituting, in conjunction with the Environmental Action Committee, a switch from the current 22-ounce Cat Cupps to a smaller, more stylish 16-ounce version.

As SGA debated ways to change campus environmental policies, independent senator Dana Jackson ’09 questioned the example that SGA was setting. Holding up the meeting’s agenda, which consisted of an entire page only half-covered with typing, she asked why the agendas were not printed on half sheets of paper. “If we’re going to be serious about [recycling], we need to do it here, too,” she said. Several senators suggested that the agenda be projected onto the screen in the Sprinkle Room during future meetings which would entirely bypass the production of paper waste.

Discussion then moved onto the fate of the Vamanos Van. Shandley suggested that, before deciding the program’s future, SGA should survey students to determine how they view this year’s changes to the service. “It might be useful to see if the changes have been effective. I don’t think anyone has asked that yet,” he said.

As the meeting approached the hour-long mark, Skelton moved to wrap up the discussion, suggesting that any updates on student-faculty relations be tabled due to the absence of members heavily involved in the Student/Faculty Relations Committee.

THE LAW FIRM
We Are Proud To Be Your Neighborhood Law Firm
Concentrating in Personal Injury

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School
Best Lawyers in America ‘84—'06
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals
Adjunct professor of trial advocacy
Duke Law School
UNC Law School

Other Areas of Practice
Appeals, Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning, Litigation, Real Estate, Wills & Trusts

In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. University of Richmond
Commissioner for the Town of Davidson ‘83—'85; ‘88—'97
Town of Davidson Commercial and North End Corridor Plan ‘05
Mecklenburg County Real Estate Executive Council ‘03 to present.