8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Chinese Buddhism student reaches enlightenment in third week
Live Thursdays a re-run this week
See Page 5

Intelligent Design takes Biology 104 pass/fail
See Page 8

Single senior sad on Valentine's Day
See Page 10

Noise violation given for poor Union piano performance
See Page 12

Hypnotized audience thinks hypnotist was funny
See Page 14

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Humor Section

Hackers:
Bobby Kenner
Jeff Yeakel

Noobs:
Brent McCormick
Katie Hunter
Michael Flake

Students with story suggestions or interest in writing should contact the editors at bokenner@davidson.edu or jeyeakel@davidson.edu.

Note: The Yowl is the humor section of The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

UBI OR. TA UBERTAS.

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

Last Yowl Ever

Mark-Paul Gosselaar, with NYPD Blue co-star and teen heartthrob, Dennis Franz.

For the past two weeks, the campus has been awash with banners and fliers requesting student support for former teen
heartthrob Zack Morris, the main character of the hit 1990’s television program “Saved by the Bell.” Morris’ popularity has been
a boon for actor Mark-Paul Gosselaar.

While Gosselaar’s campaign leaves some wondering exactly what capacity students are to support him in, the promotional drive has nonetheless
resulted in unequivocal success for the former television star. His recent approval rating of 97 percent dwarfs President Bobby Vagt’s
54 percent polling, and his image has been described as the most recognizable on campus.

Mr. Gosselaar’s surprising meteoric rise to the pinnacle of Davidson’s political awareness has inspired many other mediocre television stars with
dimming celebrity to pursue self-promotion on campus as well. Most recently, fellow “Saved by the Bell” actor Mario Lopez sprinkled
headshots of himself around various prominent Davidson buildings.

“When I saw what Preppy was able to accomplish in such a short period of time, I decided to take
the idea and inject a little testosterone into it,” said Lopez, who played muscled jock A.C. Slater on the show.
“It’s not that the projects I’ve been working on lately haven’t been fulfilling. I mean, who would complain about hosting
great shows like ‘America’s Most Talented Kid?’ I just think that sometimes it’s nice to recapture some of the extreme
fame and prominence that accompany co-starring on a mid-morning adolescent sitcom.”

WALT political pundit and religion major Henry Bellamy said that what Lopez and Gosselaar are attempting is not new. “Washed
up actors and actresses have a tendency to try and continue their lives in the public spotlight through the political
arena. That is, if they choose not to pursue pornography,” Bellamy said. “Celebrities treat politics like their elephant graveyard: they
go there to die.”

Bellamy recounted a number of failing entertainers who turned to politics as a means of perpetuating their relevance, including President
Ronald Reagan, Governors Arnold Schwarzenegger, Jesse “The Body” Ventura, and late Senator Sonny Bono.

“When Americans aren’t willing to entrust a celebrity with the important job of entertaining us on the screen, we resign
to letting them entertain us with their political views and agendas,” Bellamy said.

While this winter’s Zack Morris craze has spread across Davidson faster than the flu, not everyone has hopped aboard the
“Saved by the Bell” bandwagon. Cindy Williams, Associate Professor of Political Science, said that students should be more interested in
a candidate’s political beliefs and experience than their IMDB.com resume.

“Just because you enjoyed a candidate’s acting career does not mean you have a legitimate basis to vote for them,”
said Dr. Williams. “As a college, and as a nation, we need to stop voting on the basis of celebrity.
Floundering actors don’t belong in various branches of our political system, they belong on ‘The Surreal Life.’”

Meanwhile, some student political hopefuls have replicated Gosselaar’s formula for success as well, like newly elected SGA president Maria Stanton
’07. Stanton’s campaign fliers featured pictures of herself in various school plays, films, and other “homemade productions.”

“I don’t want to say that my campaign was strictly Morrisian in its nature,” President Stanton said. “But there were
certainly aspects of it that I intended to be at least Zack-esque. I sincerely believe that I never would have
been elected had it not been for guest appearances in numerous student plays and short films.”

Many believe that the ambitions of Mark-Paul Gosselaar and Mario Lopez are just the tip of the iceberg. The actors
who played Jessie Spano, Mr. Belding, and Lisa Turtle on “Saved by the Bell” have been seen loitering outside campus
buildings with headshots, resumes, and other promotional material. Some also report having seen the cast of “Beverly Hills 90210” and
“Alf.”
