THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2006

Staff Editorial

The Davidsonian Endorsement: The direct approach

The SGA received the second-lowest score in a survey asking students to rate nine of the most prominent campus organizations. This is unacceptable for an organization that, according to its bylaws, is supposed to represent the “collective voice of the students.” Next week’s election for SGA president provides students with an opportunity to elect a candidate who has the vision and tenacity to undertake the challenge of reforming SGA.

For SGA to be an effective body, it needs to streamline its internal processes and facilitate an honest dialogue among students. These reforms are central to regaining the student body’s confidence and trust. At Tuesday’s forum, while each candidate presented valid ideas for reforming SGA, one candidate had the best approach for disentangling SGA’s internal policy and improving SGA’s student relations. The Davidsonian editorial board endorses Mac Skelton ’07 in the SGA presidential race.

The forum, moderated by this editorial board, gave the candidates — Andy Agcaoili ’07, Evan Kreutzer ’08, Blake Poole ’08, Darryl Ratcliffe ’08, and Skelton — an opportunity to explain their positions on issues important to this student body. Following the forum, we took a critical look at each candidate’s ideas and leadership styles. The consensus, after lengthy discussion, was that two candidates — Skelton and Kreutzer — stood out as understanding the need to look both internally and externally to enact change.

What distinguished Skelton from Kreutzer and the other candidates was his unrelenting openness, honesty, and clarity in the articulation of his positions. His straightforward approach makes him an ideal candidate for enacting substantive change. Skelton’s understanding of SGA’s function is not limited to the traditional responsibility of advocating concrete student initiatives. He views the SGA as a body that has the potential to facilitate social activism and to promote understanding between diverse groups. This function is a vital way that SGA can extend its reach.

While Skelton has a strong grasp of the big picture problems and the potential reach of the SGA, he will need to develop focused goals if he is to succeed where the student body feels that the SGA of the past has failed.

COhe Babvidsonian
@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Celebrate Mozart’s Birthday,” Jan. 25) which listed many special happenings, but I noted the glaring omission of any mention of what’s being broadcast by WDAV.

Last week, we aired live concerts from Mozart’s birthplace, Salzburg, featuring performers from around the world, as well as a live Carnegie Hall concert; we featured a series of interviews with William Lawing of the Davidson College Music Department, we made many announcements each day about the various Mozart events at the college; we solicited and played listeners’ requests of works by Mozart, we enlarged our daily one-hour pivotal cale to two hours so we could offer even more music, we gave away vibe CDs.

Mozart is my favorite composer, but that’s not the point. WDAV, 89.9 FM, has been a note at Davidson College for more than 25 years, offering music and arts interviews to the campus, the region, the country, and the world. With our signal at www.wdav.org, we have listeners in Spain, the Virgin Islands, Greece, and who knows where else. Employees of the Smithsonian in DC just wrote to say they play us all day long in their offices.

I'm tired of chatting with people on campus who, when

attendance inspiring

This week I was humbled by the men on our campus. Rape is a difficult issue to confront. It’s hard to talk about, harder to think about, and for many almost impossible to imagine.

But about 280 Davidson men showed up last Tuesday to do just that: talk, listen, and think about sexual assault during the One in Four presentation. Male faculty, staff, and students invested their minds, hearts, and time into creating new ways to combat the issue of sexual assault at Davidson and to promote campus-wide discussion.

Male students turned up in large numbers to hear for themselves how they can make a difference. Our challenge now is to keep talking. Men must remind each other of what they heard here. And women: we can learn a thing or two from the men, I think, about how our behavior can be just as harmful as theirs. A dangerous sexual culture will remain unless we talk to each other.

The men of One in Four have challenged us to ask: if a friend came to you for help,Would you know what to do? They learn I'm with WDAV, say, “Oh, you're in Charlotte?” No, I work for Davidson College. The person who DOESN’T work at WDAV is Rodney Dangerfield — we deserve some RESPECT!

Libby Hubbard ’08, President, Davidson First Responders
Rachel Jeffreys, Producer/Host WDAV

WDAV speaks out for celebration of Mozart

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor. Please e-mail submissions of fewer than 250 words to davidsonian@davidson.edu by Sunday night. We reserve the right to edit for content, brevity, and grammar.

Surprise! There’s a classical music radio station on the Davidson campus! I read the good article by Reid Wildman (“Campus to celebrate Mozart”) and I feel that there are students on this campus who are misinformed about the goals of the Black Student Coalition at Davidson College. As a Davidson student, I feel that it is my duty to inform the misinformed. Sadly, the misinformed happen to be many of my fellow peers. I will be speaking on behalf of the Black Student Coalition (BSC).

The BSC is an organization whose sole purposes are to establish and maintain a spirit of solidarity among the black students of Davidson College, to effect awareness within the framework of Davidson College with regard to the contributions of black persons to the total environment of Davidson College, to provide an outlet for the social and cultural needs of black students, and to challenge Davidson College to become an embracing environment for black students and diversity as a whole.

For those students who find themselves in the racial majority of Davidson College (Caucasian students), there is no need for a specific outlet to cater to their social and cultural needs, solely because the social and cultural makeup of Davidson College is geared toward the racial majority. Upon acceptance to Davidson, most minority students leave an environment where a large majority of their peers were minorities. It is plainly and simply a culture shock. Before you dismiss this notion as foolishness, take one moment to think about an experience in which you were the minority in a group of people very foreign to you. For those upperclassmen that have traveled abroad, how did you feel once you reached your destination on the other side of the world? When you realized that you were only one of a handful of Americans in that area, how did you feel? I am almost sure that you did not dive headfirst into that foreign culture. The BSC is an organization that allows minorities to have a comfort zone to adjust to a new culture in a foreign place.

In saying that, the BSC is not a racially exclusive organization. Article 3, Section 1 of the BSC Constitution blatantly states, “All members of the Davidson College Student Body shall be eligible for membership. Any student desiring membership in the Kindred shall be declared a member upon payment of semester dues.” In all actuality, the BSC is very much the same as every other minority interest group on this campus. Much like these other organizations, we are not a member of the PCC. Why have you not questioned OLAS (Org. Latin American Students), ACAA (Asian Cultural Awareness Association), The Jewish Student Union, MECCA (Middle Eastern Cross-Cultural Association), or DASA (Davidson African Students Association) on being racially exclusive?

As a matter of fact, why have you, those who answered “yes” to the survey, not questioned your own organizations on being racially exclusive? If you would like to base “racial exclusivity” on a set percentage of a certain race of students in a given organization, then EVERY organization on this campus is racially exclusive. How many minorities are currently enrolled as members of Phi Delta Theta, Connor, Rusk, or Sigma Phi Epsilon? Fortunately, I do not feel that any organizations at Davidson College are racially exclusive. Quite simply, President Vagt would not stand for it, and any organization deemed as such would be completely purged from Davidson College. But do you see my point now?

I feel stereotypes and misconceptions in any society can only be obliterated with communication and tolerance. The BSC’s doors are as open to new members and guests as any other organization, fraternity, or eating house on campus. I hope to see many more Davidson students participate in BSC functions (or even join the BSC). If you have any questions concerning the BSC, please feel free to email me (lomack@davidson.edu). I will gladly speak with you in person or through email, whichever your preference.

Lorenzo Mack ’08
Social Chair, BSC