. ARTS

Students enjoyed taste of Asia
By JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Staff Writer

Last week the ACAA sponsored its annual Asian Awareness Week, devoting each day to a different, engaging activity or demonstration relating to eastern culture. In its mission statement, the club asserts that it strives to “maintain a sense of unity among the Asian American students of Davidson College, while inviting all students, Asian and non-Asian, to explore and cultivate their interests in Asian and Asian-American culture.”

On Monday, the Union Atrium buzzed with the energy and the tantalizing aromas of a sushi kitchen. Students made their own sushi rolls and then relaxed by enjoying their creations. Many people who participated said that they could not have found a better way to spend an afternoon. “It was a really unique opportunity to learn a cultural art form,” Erin Godla ’10 said.

The week took a more serious tone Tuesday night with a lecture by Economics Professor Dr. Peter Hess entitled “Global Poverty, Inequality, and Sustainable Development.” For nearly an hour, Hess discussed the importance of understanding the roots of poverty. Though China has experienced a recent economic boom, Hess stressed that most other countries in Asia still have astronomically high infant mortality rates. During a question and answer session following the talk, a student asked what will alleviate global poverty. Hess replied that we should all become informed and get involved. “Individuals as well as nations can act,” Hess said. “Change will start small but it will build.”

Wednesday night featured a film screening in the 900 Room. The documentary, “White Light/Black Rain,” followed the destructive aftermath of the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945, which led to Japan’s eventual surrender in WWII. Hiroshima’s mortality rate is estimated to be between 140,000 and 70,000 people, while 160,000 others suffered from burn and radiation injuries. The film by Academy Award-winning filmmaker Steven Okazaki includes interviews with 14 survivors.

A dinner benefiting sex trafficking victims in South East Asia was held in Chambers on Friday night. Along with ACAA, PS, the Davidson Women’s Committee and Dean Rusk also supported the event. Attendees enjoyed a delicious meal featuring Asian cuisine provided by PS’s skilled culinary team. Dishes included spring roll appetizers, a Thai udon noodle and pork mélange, tofu, and caramelized bananas for dessert. Karen Kirk ’11 commented on the work she and many others put into the dinner and the importance of the money raised. “It’s so easy to help out. Something small like chopping tofu can make a difference,” she said.

Finally, to round out a great week, the ACAA and BSC brought comedian Vidur Kapur to campus Saturday night. Kapur, who performed a stand-up routine, hails from South Asia. He was recently selected as “Favorite South Asian Comedian.” The Asian Awareness Week was a success that presented the Davidson community with unique and enlightening opportunities to gain exposure to the Asian culture and learn about serious issues that impact the world.

Fall fashion tips for the style-impaired
By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
A&L Editor

Despite unusually warm days undercut by the occasional cool morning, we are officially in that richly-colored season when days grow shorter and skirts reach new lengths of possibility. Fall is officially here, and we can welcome the season with versatile trends that blend old and new styles into retrospective hybrids that are simple to achieve and fun to wear.

Black is classic. Period. Style gurus from New York, London, and Paris use black like it is going out of style,which keeps it perpetually in mode. However, colder weather means warmer colors, and hues in cranberry, plum, mustard yellow, browns, and jewel tones are lovely this year.

Dresses
Wrap yourself in anything you can find. Wrap dresses are versatile, complement most figures, and can be worn with anything from leggings and a turtleneck to jeans, to a bolero jacket, or you can even wear them by themselves. Other styles include sweater fabric or chunky knit dresses, trapeze cuts, and tunics with empire waists. Just remember to keep the length reasonable.

Skirts
Like its older cousin, the dress, skirts are the ultimate mark of femininity. Pretty and practical, they are an imperative staple in any cool-weather wardrobe. Styles abound with A-line, pencil, poof (yes, it’s back), wrap, tartan, houndstooth, and herringbone all making appearances. And remember to cover up those legs. Wrap dresses can go with anything. Pasty appendages do nothing for a classy A-line skirt and jacket suit. Instead, warm up with opaques, nylons, patterned tights, knee socks, knit socks, or even leg warmers. Keep in mind that the styles are retro, so you can mix a 30’s-cut skirt with a 20’s style blouse for a fresh, distinct look.

Pants
This season you have two options as opposite as black and white. First, the figure-friendly, slimming tight jeans have returned after their monumental debut last season. Opt for shades as dark as possible with a minimal number of pockets and detail. On the other hand, pants with extremely wide legs are also in, but be wary. These pants are typically cut high-waisted. You can wear boots with either style, and heels look especially nice with the wide-cut.

Shirts and Jackets
The more flounces the shirt has, the better—think the 1930’s meet Jack Sparrow, but in moderation. We want to make Mr. Depp proud, not look like we’re about to hoist the colors. Soft ruffles and some fabric embellishments are ideal. Short jackets are a perfect complement to layer with these shirts. Choose from boleros, jean jackets, cropped pea coats, and dress suit jackets. In fact, menswear-inspired pieces cut to a woman’s body are ideal for a fun and powerful statement.

Shoes
Omg. Shoes get noticed ubiquitously, and unfortunately can make or break an outfit. Luckily, there are plenty of styles to choose from this season. Any funky color, pattern, or animal print is great; just keep the rest of the outfit simple. Shiny patent leather has a heart-warming retro feel and is currently ‘mod-glamorous.’ For the brave, French-inspired ankle boots are the It fall shoes. However, knee-length boots and high heels are always classy.

Accessories
Oftentimes we underestimate the power of accessories or completely neglect them. Don’t! Accessories are the perfect (and easiest) way to spice up any outfit. Large earrings, chains, and eclectic charms work great with sweaters and jackets, and if you have several lying around, layer them. Large funky cocktail rings and bangles bring sparkle and attention to a dull outfit. Find handbags in outrageously shiny colors and patterns. This season, the bigger, funkier, more geometrically challenging and feminine, the better.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, OCT 10, 2007

ANTHA TALLEY
Staff Writer

Janice Karriker, an employee at the Union Café, recently sat down to discuss:

Q: How long have you been working here?
A: Almost seven years now. I started working here when a friend suggested I give it a try, so I submitted my resume to the College and was offered several different jobs. In the end, I chose the Café because there are so few employees here and the atmosphere is friendlier and more like a family.