THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Day of the Dead alive and well on campus

By JORDAN WALL
Senior Staff Writer

Last Thursday, students gathered in Chambers Lilly Gallery for the Organization of Latin American Students’ (OLAS) annual celebration of the
Day of the Dead, or Dia de los Muertos. In conjunction with the Spanish Department, members of OLAS gave a
presentation detailing the history and significance of the day. The presentation also included several live performances by students and one
previously recorded performance by Professor of Spanish Carlos Rivera.

“The holiday is over 3,000 years old and indigenous to groups like the Olmec and Zapotec tribes. The holiday was
assimilated with the concept of All Saints Day and All Souls Day.” Juan Ramirez ’08, President of OLAS, began the
festivities with a PowerPoint presentation on the Day of the Dead. Ramirez, who is originally from Mexico, spoke of the
holiday’s cultural significance and the manner in which it is celebrated in Mexico. Food is prepared for deceased friends and
family who are believed to return to the living world for one day. Altars are traditionally arranged in the home
with pictures of the deceased. Family members also make decorations such as skulls made of sugar. OLAS created its own
traditional altar in the gallery for people to process by.

The holiday is over 3,000 years old and indigenous to groups like the Olmec and Zapotec tribes. The influx of
Christianity to Mexico assimilated the holiday with the concept of All Saints Day, held on Nov. 1, and All Souls
Day, held on Nov. 2. Many of the original sentiments of the holiday have remained. Ramirez explained that one purpose
of the holiday is to show mastery over death. A common phrase, Ramirez said, is “la muerte es flaca y
no puede conmigo,” meaning, “death is skinny and cannot handle me.”

Several students performed live pieces, most of which were related in sentiment to the day itself rather than traditional performances.
Among them was Jenny Geyer ’09, who read a poem by Julie Sopetra, titled, “Woman with a Somber Gaze.” David
Dennis’s ’08 rap performance had the crowd up on its feet dancing, and Rivera donned a mask as the symbol
of death for his pre-recorded performance of the “Invocation of Death,” entirely in Spanish.

The event concluded with the group’s procession to a graveyard on the outskirts of the campus. Carrying candles, the group
moved through the graveyard honoring the deceased by placing flowers onto their gravestones. The night ended with several prayers offered
in memoriam and a few songs to raise the attendants’ spirits.

Come to the... Law School Fair

Representatives from the following 58 schools will be there:
American University
Boston College
Brooklyn
California Western
Campbell University
Charleston
Charlotte Law School
Columbia University
Cornell University
Drexel University
Duke University
Elon University
Emory University
Franklin Pierce
George Mason University
George Washington University
Georgia State University
Hofstra University
Loyola - Los Angeles
Loyola - New Orleans
Mercer University
Michigan State University
New York Law School
Northwestern University
Ohio Northern University
Ohio State University
Pennsylvania State University
Roger Williams University
Rutgers

Thursday, November 8th
3:30 — 6:30 PM
Union Atrium

Samford University
Seton Hall University
Southern Methodist University
St. Louis University
Stetson University
Tulane University
University of Alabama
University of Florida
University of Georgia
University of Maryland
University of Memphis
University of Miami
University of Michigan
University of Minnesota
University of Mississippi
University of North Carolina
University of Notre Dame
University of South Carolina
University of Southern California
University of the Pacific
University of Virginia
Vanderbilt University
Vermont
Villanova University
Wake Forest University
Washington & Lee University
Washington University
William & Mary
Yeshiva University

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2007

SGA approves emergency allocations

By KATE GILLESPIE
Staff Writer

At last Thursday’s Student Government Association (SGA) meeting, senators voted on an emergency Activity Tax Council (ATC) allocation and nominated
students to study groups that will determine future college strategy. The vote on the ATC allocations was problematic because SGA
was two senators short of the two-thirds quorum needed to approve resolutions. Nevertheless, ATC chair Will DeLoache ’09 presented the
proposals. The Environmental Action Committee (EAC) had asked for an allocation from the ATC to send 50 people to the
Power Shift Conference in Washington, D.C.The ATC had initially decided to cover lodging and half of the transportation costs. From
the time of this initial allocation, the number of students going to the conference dropped to 20. The EAC consequently
decided to carpool to the conference rather than taking chartered buses. Total costs for the trip to the conference came
to $15,000. Since student participants had already paid a $45 registration fee, the EAC asked the ATC to provide $5,000
to cover the remaining costs. Those present voted on an allocation for the Power Shift Conference on global warming because
student participants were leaving the following day and needed to know if they would need to contribute their own money
to fund the trip. To meet the quorum, Darrell Scott ’10 and Robert Lassiter ’09 voted via cell phone. The
allocation passed.

DeLoache also presented a proposal to allocate money to Davidson Outdoors (DO) for a new TV and DVD player. In
the fall, DO had asked for money for the TV so members could watch instructional films and kayaking videos. The
ATC asked DO to search around the college for other available TVs. Since DO could not find any other TVs,
members renewed their proposal for an allocation from the ATC.

SGA also selected students to serve on the strategic planning committees formed by President Tom Ross and members of the
Principal Executive Staff. Two students, along with trustees and faculty members, will be part of each of the five groups.
Although many senators were eager to nominate students with experiences that qualified them to serve on the committees, Treasurer Blake
Poole ’08 urged senators to remember their mission. “This is about representing students,” Poole said. “It’s more important who these
[nominated] students are. You should think about it in terms of who you would want to represent students.”

SGA began with the Demographics Study Group, which will examine the effect of national demographic changes on the Davidson campus.
Dean of Admissions Chris Gruber heads this group. Senators selected Katie Hunter ’08 and Darrell Scott ’10, both of whom
have dealt with demographic statistics through their majors, political science, and sociology, respectively. Senators then chose Lauren Woodall ’08 and
Austin Bell ’10 to serve in the Regional Change Study Group. Dean of Students Tom Shandley and Eileen Keeley are
in charge of this group, which will explore the consequences for the Town of Davidson of the expansion of Charlotte
and other changes in the Southeast region of the US.

Arthur Etchells ’08 and Meikayla Zwieryznski ’10 were nominated to the Trends in Liberal Arts Education Group headed by Dean
of Faculty Clark Ross. Senators chose Meena Sangar ’10 and Mike Wellman ’08 to study how changes in the global
economy will affect Davidson. Director of Athletics Jim Murphy leads the Globalization Study Group. The last study group was the
Technology Study Group led by Vice President for Business and Finance Karen Goldstein. Senators nominated JD Mills ’09 and Aaron
Couch ’09. Each of these groups will meet three times before the end of the year and will aid in
producing a written report for the Trustee Retreat on Feb. 1 of next year.

The meeting also included a follow-up from Katie Hunter ’08 on last week’s EAC meeting, which several senators attended. SGA
is studying environmental issues this month as a part of the Real Talk Project. Hunter and EAC member Katie Epstein
’10 are currently working with the coordinator of Davidson 101 to institute an environmental policy forum as part of the
program for freshmen.

Sandy Carnegie B.A. Davidson College J.D. University of Richmond Commissioner for the Town of Davidson ’83-’85; ’88-’97 Town of Davidson
Commercial and North End Corridor Plan ’05 Mecklenburg County Real Estate Executive Council ’03 to present. Concentrating in Personal Injury
Other Areas of Practice: Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning, Litigation, Real Estate, Social Security Disability, Wills & Trusts.

Renee LAW FIRM
In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699 (Next to the Brickhouse
Tavern)
