THE DAVIDSONIAN

and allowed Barry Bonds a base in his final game as a Giant. The danger of great feats built on a foundation of drugs. With all of this said, I yearn to embrace the game, my passion for the game.

Hollywood might have scripted September for MLB. Big markets like New York, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, and Philadelphia all have teams playing fall ball for the MLB this post-season. While clearly a boon for the MLB, big payroll teams in the playoffs are hardly a surprise. The shock and joy is that even in the midst of these big market successes, playoff hopes proliferated around the league for so many smaller teams so late in the season. Seven National League teams promised by the postseason. Out of the teams who would have made the playoffs if the season ended in the middle of July, none made it to the final four. Like in any good tragedy, the mighty fell with a thud. Three early favorites collapsed from each division down the homestretch: the Brewers, the Mets, and the Padres. To balance the equation, two teams with turbulent playoff histories rose from the ashes to secure berths: the Phillies and the Rockies. To add another perennial phoenix to the duo, the cursed Cubs won the pennant.

The emotional weight of these turbulent changes still resonates. Whispering “Mets” makes Long Island shiver. With a payroll of 101 million dollars, leading by seven games with 17 to play, the promising season that blossomed through spring rains slowly withered. Weather-beaten, future Hall of Fame pitcher Tom Glavine gave up seven runs over three innings to the unremarkable Florida Marlins to seal the Mets' epic, unparalleled fall. Flipping the coin, the Philadelphia Phillies overcame their pitching to scratch and bite their way to the pennant behind an onslaught of hitting. The electricity in Philadelphia when strike three went past National Willie Pena jumped through my TV and shot down my spine. Yet even this story pales in comparison to the 13-inning one-game playoff between the Rockies and Padres, featuring favorites for the National League Cy Young, Rookie of the Year, and MVP in a do-or-die matchup. The Padres thought they clinched the Wild Card after two doubles, a triple, and a dramatic play at the plate that left the runner bleeding from the mouth left them stunned from my seat.

While none of these plots provide a panacea for baseball’s off-field scandals, it reminds me of why we must fix the game. To put faith in these narratives, trust is required, trust now flaunted by some big leaguers. Despite baseball’s imperfections, with a Little League spirit, I'll hope for healing and savor October’s cleansing, cathartic promise.

Wildcat Roundup
Volleyball (6-12)
3-0 loss against College of Charleston
3-1 loss vs. Furman
Next up:
10/6 vs. Morehead St.
10/20 vs. Drake
Notes:
Behind the ‘Cats’ solid offensive line, Katie Pierucci ’08 stepped up with 29 kills and 17 digs against The Citadel to break the ‘Cats’ nine-match losing streak.

Football (3-1)
3-1 win against The Citadel
Next up:
10/6 at Elon
10/7 at UNC-Greensboro
Notes:
Kenny Mantuo ’11 and Chad Barnes ’09 accumulated 213 rushing yards versus Jacksonville. That total was the highest so far this season.

For professional athletes, when does fun and friendly competition cross over into gambling activity that could compromise the integrity of their sport? League rules in all major sports clearly prohibit players from betting on league contests. Failure to comply with these rules can yield harsh sanctions—take for example, Pete Rose’s current ban from the Baseball Hall of Fame. However, the rising popularity of fantasy sports in recent years has complicated the picture. Owing to the vague policy of the NFL league office that regulated player activity in fantasy football, the line between acceptable and unacceptable behavior has become significantly blurred.

The fantasy-sports industry attracts over 19 million “managers” per year, mostly through online services provided by Yahoo! and ESPN. While most leagues formed on these sites are free, the industry is booming through online advertising revenue. Kim Beason, annual revenue. Over 80 percent of participants are involved in fantasy football leagues, while fantasy baseball also draws a significant following. Game broadcasts and sports networks have bought into the current fantasy frenzy. NFL broadcasts commonly run tickers of the day’s top individual performers. ESPN aired a highly-publicized “NFL Fantasy Football Special” before the season, in which “experts” such as Tampa Bay linebacker Cato June selected most of his former Colts teammates. By drafting Peyton Manning in the first round, June, an active defensive player, was speculating on the performance of an opposing quarterback he will face in Week 5. It’s doubtful that Cato is experiencing a serious conflict of interest, but couldn’t these situations potentially compromise the sport?

Professional athletics have been plagued by gambling controversies from the 1919 Chicago White Sox through the recent offenses of NBA referee Tim Donaghy. Most likely, the NFL will argue that Michael Vick violated leagueIn an article in Information Policy on Gambling Week, it was estimated that the industry draws up to $3 billion in illegal dog-fighting operations. Isn’t an NFL player speculating on football. 

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2007

Does Fantasy Football cross the line? Should Cato June be allowed to play fantasy football? Is the opposition’s performance objectionable? According to the NFL league offices, it’s not. Moreover, the NFL recognizes that money (quite often large sums) is involved in these leagues. Still, they maintain that there is a substantial difference between betting on games and participating in fantasy leagues. It’s harder for me to make the distinction between betting and player participation in fantasy leagues that involve money. I’m not suggesting that NFL players would alter their performances to cash in on fantasy leagues.

See Fantasy, page 14

Carolina ‘Pampers’ lack emotion
By Omar PICKETT
Staff Writer

How 'Bout Dem “Pampers”? The Carolina Panthers are finished. That is right. Only a quarter of the way through the season, I’m ready to say that the 2007 season is in the toilet. I understand that Carolina still has 12 games left and that teams have started the season 2-2 and even 1-3 and made the playoffs. I understand that the NFC South is such a terrible division that Tim Tebow’s Florida Gators would challenge for a division crown. I understand that a 9-7, or maybe even an 8-8 record could get you to the playoffs in the lowly NFC. But trust me on this: the Carolina Panthers are finished.

What’s wrong with the Panthers? In short, everything but Steve Smith. The offense is abysmal, especially if the team is stuck with bubble boy at quarterback, David Carr. After being sacked almost 300 times in Houston, Carr is too scared to let a play develop. His fear was evident against Tampa Bay as he completed 3 of 11 passes in the first half and went 19-41 in the game for a whopping 155 yards. Meanwhile, DeShaun “Butterfingers” Foster fumbled the ball twice and only rushed for 64 yards. But, as Mel Kiper once said, “you can’t run through a brick wall.” The offensive line got dominated off the line of scrimmage, arguably for the third straight game. Quite frankly, the offense, as it stands now, looks like a train wreck.

The Panther defense may be even worse. I can’t find any talent or effort in this unit, except for Kris Jenkins and Ma’ake Kemoeatu possibly challenging Kobayashi in the hot dog eating contest. The highly touted defensive line can’t get any pressure on the quarterback. Julius Peppers, the so-called “Best Defensive End in the NFL,” is being dominated by no-name offensive tackles like Wayne Gandy and Jermaine Trueblood. The linebacker unit is a mess; Jon Beason and Thomas Davis appear to be running away from the ball carriers. The Panther secondary is a fantasy football nightmare, making opposing quarterbacks look like perennial Hall of Famers. Coming into week four, the Panthers had an opposing quarterback rating of 97.7. To put this in perspective, the NFL record for highest career passer rating is 96.8, held by Steve Young. Embarrassing? I think so.

Still, the Panthers' biggest issue is not the lack of talent on offense or defense. When the Panthers made it to the Super Bowl in the 2003 season, they were cleverly nicknamed “the Cardiac Cats.” Two years earlier, when they were 1-15, the only fans at their games wore paper bags over their heads. When the Panthers hired John Fox, a defensive coordinator from the Giants, one television commentator stated, “They might as well hire Jamie Foxx!” The team had an anonymous quarterback who had never started a game in his NFL career. But that team played with an attitude. The players were desperate to prove that they belonged among the NFL’s elite. That team didn’t have huge stars, but it played with something almost as important as X’s and O’s: heart. This Carolina Panther squad has no heart, no drive, and no will to win. They just go out there, run around, get hit, and get a paycheck. That’s a problem deeper than X’s and O’s, and it will cause them to have one long season.

Women’s Soccer (4-3)
2-1 win against Appalachian State
5-0 win against The Citadel
Next up:
10/3 vs. South Carolina
10/4 at Furman
Notes:
Lauren Conner ’10 earned SoCon Player of the Week honors after scoring the game-winning goal against Appalachian State in double overtime and the opening goal of the 5-0 win against The Citadel.

Men’s Soccer (1-7)
2-0 loss against Elon
Next up:
10/6 vs. Furman
10/7 vs. Francis Marion
Notes:
Robby Goldsberry ’10 made six saves for the Wildcats in their loss to Elon. The defeat extends the team’s losing streak to four games.

Field Hockey (6-3)
8-0 loss to Michigan State
12-1 win against Catawba
Next:
10/5 vs. Pacific
10/13 vs. Dartmouth
Notes:
Rebounding from two tough losses, the field hockey team scored a team-record 12 goals in their game against Catawba. Catherine Ransome ’08 and Courtney Tobe '11 both made hat tricks in the victory.