THE DAVIDSONIAN

From Basement, page 8

Witty demonstrations of our sufferings in order to vex our primitive competitors. Think famed graffiti artist Banksy vs. the Neanderthals.
We should not fight this war from a single trench; rather, we should fight it on every front from which
the apes attack. We need to retaliate wherever the opposition felt the immature urge to etch profanity and frat names
into wood, paint, stone, or steel. Although many are unaware of its existence, the war has already begun. Even in
the basement carrels where Greek letters, fellatio, and “Julia” are the most common topics, there is some hope. Positive encouragement
from previously suffering students, clever puns, and even an excerpt from Yeats’s poem “The Second Coming” appears. These efforts are
commendable and even welcome. But we must ask: who derives pleasure from reading “suck it” carved into a desk? Maybe
I dismiss this phrase a little too lightly. Perhaps its author was trying to remind himself (or even herself) to
suck it up, but stopped mid-phrase. Or maybe the engraver was a sexually frustrated individual whose raging hormones allowed him
(or her) to think only of reproductive acts? These explanations are doubtful but are more acceptable than the most likely
scenario: the culprit was an average Davidson male who lost focus and decided to leave his legacy on campus by
displaying his immaturity to whomever chooses to sit in that particular carrel. It is rather pathetic; if people are going
to take time literally to leave their mark, it should be done well. Some people are trying admirably to bridge
the gap between the two worlds of heathenism and enlightenment. One man carved into a bathroom stall, “What are you
reading this for? The joke is between your legs!” Perhaps such phrases are a good first step towards proper vandalism?
Those who claim to own the library basement, however, must not be content and allow our homeland’s dominion to be
overrun by the occasional lost failure. We must retake the stalls, desks, chairs, and carrels with chemical compounds, mathematical formulae,
and poetry. And we will.

Steven Treible ’10 is undeclared. He is from West Linn, OR. Contact him at sttreible@davidson.edu.

Life on the Court
An Epic Poem by Andy Knauss

Chapter One: Gluttony

Meet college student X. on Friday afternoon
As he chills with some guys in his friend Terry's room,
He likes Terry okay, but the main reason he’s here
Is that Terry’s a senior down with sharing his beer.
As his cup runneth over with Budweiser Light,
X starts to unwind and prepare for the night;
Pregaming, it’s called, where X, beer in hand,
Will attempt to consume as much booze as he can.
He'll pound a few brewskies, and kick back some shots
And maybe even chug from a beer bong in spots.
He'll drink vodka from Russia, Irish whiskey for sure
(Alcohol, it seems, brings the world closer together);
He'll have some tequila, but absinthe? No way.
And if he wants to feel classy he can sip chardonnay.
There are bottles of rum and buckets of gin,
As well as a trash can that he’ll probably puke in.
An alcoholic? Of course not, since here everyone
Is killing their brain cells in the spirit of fun!

PERSPECTIVES
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2007

Letters from abroad

New Zealand: beyond Tolkien’s world
By Eva FOEGEDING
Guest Columnist

Kia Ora Davidson! That is Maori for “Hello!” I write to you from the wonderful country of New Zealand—the proud
home of sheep farmers, the world’s best rugby team (the All Blacks), the Haka (Maori war dance), and exotic birds
like the country’s national icon, the kiwi. Disregard your first association with New Zealand as the home of the “Lord
of the Rings,” and focus instead on another feature: New Zealand is the adventure capital of the world. By the
time you read this, I will have already skydived, gone caving, kayaked, tramped through the bush, and walked on glaciers
and volcanoes. Because of New Zealand’s location in the southern hemisphere, I also already enjoyed a two-week spring break, every
minuteof which I spent on the South Island kayaking or in an orange minivan, called a “spaceship” in Australia. Two
other girls and I began our holiday when we parked our spaceship in Abel Tasman National Park, which features beautiful
beaches, birds, seals, and a marine reserve. From there we prepared for our journey by cramming four days' worth of
gear into rented kayaks. We kayaked to the Watering Cove campground, pitched our tent, and explored the shore. The tide
was going out, so we were able to walk around. In a tidal pool between giant rocks, I found starfish
living in the wild! Unfortunately, I also discovered sandflies, terrible little beach creatures that left my feet polka-dotted by the
end of the trip. Before falling asleep that night, we worried that we might not have pulled our kayaks far
enough out of the water to avoid the encroaching high tide. Our decision to reposition them further up the beach
was lucky! Sure enough, it rained overnight; when we checked on the kayaks the next morning, it was evident that
the previous night’s waves almost reached them. The second morning, we repacked the kayaks and navigated around the peninsula’s “mad
mile” portion. Our instructor had previously taught us to plan trips around the tides, so we knew to kayak into
a tiny bay and up part of a river. The water was so clear that we could see some huge
rocks below us. Without the ocean’s waves crashing, the river was peaceful. I paddled further in my single kayak and
discovered a little waterfall. Watering Cove’s islands are connected during low tide, but at high tide, we could maneuver between
them. While I was paddling through the swift currents between the rocks, a seal swam so close to my kayak
that I was afraid I might hit it with the paddle. Later our group kayaked to Bark’s Bay, where we
slept in a hut for the night. With its many high-tide-only shallow pools, Bark’s Bay features tropical blue and green
water. The view of the night sky was incredible. There was no moon, so we could see everything, including constellations
such as the Milky Way, the Big Pot (the Big Dipper), and the Southern Cross, which is depicted on both
the New Zealand and the Australian flag. I am so proud of what I have done and excited for what
is to come. I am so thankful that I have been given these opportunities. A giant harvest moon rose over
the water and reflected orange across the waves. What I’ve described here represents only a few days' worth of excursions
in this beautiful country. Reflecting on my adventures, I am so proud of what I have done and excited for
what is to come. I am so thankful that I have been given these opportunities. My travels have allowed me
to see some wonders of nature that I had never imagined! Ki Kite! Bye! Eva Foegeding ’09 is a public
health major and pre-medical student from Raleigh, N.C. Contact her at evfoegeding@davidson.edu.
