The Davidsonian

1 6

20

ACROSS

1. Made cookies

6. Peter the Great, e.g.

10. Irk

14. Like some eclipses

15. __ vera

16. Largest of seven

17. Emerged

18. Long

19. Place to play

20. Pregnancy party

ARTS & LIVING
Your daily dose of procrastination

21. Sermon subject

22. Chooses by ballot

26. Spooks

30. Nickel or Tin

32. Country album?

33. Kind of pie

34. Forgo

38. Snatch

39. Had a little lamb?

40. Cafeteria carrier

41. Beast of Borden

43. Kind of Buddhism

44. Parisian river

45. Miscalculated

46. Swore

48. Carpentry tool

51. “Days of __ Lives”

52. Snake eyes

53. Alphabet string

60. Wild party

61. Unlikely candidate for Prom King

62. Wipe clean

63. Go __ detail

64. “Agreed!”

65. Bakery breads

66. Egg container

67. Defensemen (and women)

68. Like dessert wines

DOWN

1. Spill the beans

2. Heavenly glow

3. Door opener

4. “No problemo!”

5. Gowns

6. Falcon foot

7. Not bright

8. First-rate

9. Feel sorry about

10. “Not right now”

11. Knighted Newton

12. Unprecedented

13. Loses intensity

21. Old what's-__-name

25. Sheriff's specialty

26. Stuffing ingredient

27. Keyboard key

28. “Woe is me!”

29. Rabies shot

30. Quiet

31. First place?

33. Labyrinth

Wednesday, October 3, 2007

35. Pupil's place

36. Wind instrument

37. Checked out

42. Baseball stat.

44. Beach sights

46. African country

47. Feed lines to

48. Ms. Givens

49. Pointless

50. Pains in the neck

51. Strangely

54. Cold one

55. Study hard

56. Sprout

57. Healthy

58. Castaway's home

59. “Surely you __”

Justice dialogue explores refugees, education admission

By SAMANTHA TALLEY
Staff Writer

“Does that mean I’m on?”

Rick Ufford-Chase leans forward in his chair and looks around at the 40 or so people crammed into the top floor of Summit. The crowd, composed of both Davidson students and town residents, has come to hear him conduct one of the College’s Justice Dialogues. Today’s issue: whether or not illegal immigrants should be granted access to American social services.

“Justice Dialogues is a forum for discussion on issues of social justice,” Anders Gustafson, ’08, says. “They’re facilitated by professors or outside professionals whose responsibility is to present at least two sides to a topic. From there, we like to see heavy student engagement in discussing the various viewpoints and, ideally, reaching some sort of consensus. More than anything, though, it’s just a great opportunity to build a relaxed atmosphere where participants can feel comfortable expressing their own opinions.”

He goes on, “Our upcoming Justice Dialogues include affirmative action in education admissions, the practice of philanthropy for profit and the role of socially responsible corporations and the effectiveness of the first housing model for combating homelessness.”

Ufford-Chase, beyond having his own Wikipedia entry, is more than qualified to lead this discussion. Not only has he worked along the Mexican-American border for 20 years, he has also served as the Moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church (USA) from 2004 to 2006.

In addition, he helped to found BorderLinks, a binational endeavor that focuses on raising awareness of border issues and serving border communities through immersion trips for Americans, leadership programs for border residents, service projects and international conventions.

Ufford-Chase begins by explaining how he first became involved with illegal immigration. “I arrived on the Mexican-American border in May 1987, in the midst of one of the most critical church-state conflicts in 60 years,” he explains. Thousands were fleeing the paramilitary death squads in El Salvador and seeking refuge in the United States. Despite the 1980 Refugee Act’s promise of a safe haven, however, these refugees were turned away at the border because they were running from a government that the Reagan administration supported.

“So in reaction churches in Tucson, Arizona, one of them mine, started a sanctuary movement,” he explained. “We would go out on weekends, help people across the border and send them into a network of 500 churches throughout the country.”

Then, in 1992, U.S. troops stationed along the Rio Grande between El Paso and Juarez forced refugees to cross through the desert. “Basically, the government was hoping that enough people would die to make the desert a deterrent and consequently cut down on illegal immigration,” Ufford-Chase says. “But what they didn’t realize was that since the push factors were greater than the pull factors, these people were going to keep coming.”

“Whether levying out water rations in the borderlands or spreading awareness over coffee and pastries thousands of miles away, we are all a part of the international community.”

The main issue then became rescuing refugees from the desert. “Our goal was not to protest but to respond to an immediate direct need in a way to attract public attention to the issue,” Ufford-Chase explains. For example, when the volunteers supplied water rations at particularly deadly passages, they also erected a huge water tower and held a press conference to attract media coverage.

After Ufford-Chase’s talk, the floor opened for questions and conversation. Participants discuss two articles, one from the “New York Times” concerning the exclusion of chemotherapy from a government-supported health program for illegal immigrants and the other from the Houston Chronicle about a bill that would make it easier for public hospitals to treat illegal immigrants.

When asked how people in North Carolina can help with the border problem, Ufford-Chase responds, “Resolution lies not in Congress but in local churches. You can start by helping your church find and assist undocumented people in the area, but you have to make sure the issue does not become a theoretical debate because then the humane aspect is forgotten.”