4 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2007

Patterson Court runs its inaugural Day of Service

BY SAMANTHA TALLEY
Staff Writer

“It's not just about the image.” That's what Service Chair of the Patterson Court Council Libby Hubbard '08 had to
say about the organization's increasing emphasis on community involvement. “We're not just trying to convince people that there's more to
us than parties,” she explained. “We also want to show our own members that service doesn't have to be an
obligation or a chore. We want them to realize helping others can be satisfying for them as well, and that
they don't have to devote every aspect of their lives to service in order to make a difference.”

All 12 houses support the initiative, and on Nov 3, their efforts culminated in the PCC's First Annual Day of
Service. At the event, Alpha Phi Alpha sponsored “Turning Dreams into Reality,” a mentor program for minority youth from the
Davidson area. Connor House put on its hard hats and went to work on two houses for Habitat for Humanity,
while KA held a yard sale for the Davidson/Cornelius Daycare Center. Both Kappa Sig and FIJI traveled to Huntersville, the
former to work with people with mental disabilities at Hinds Feet Farm and the latter to help renovate the Hope
House Foundation, a shelter for domestic violence survivors. PIKA traveled to Wake Forest University to participate in a walk benefiting
the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation. Rusk House volunteered at Joshua's Farm, which offers visitors a therapeutic horseback riding program. SAE
raised funds for the American Red Cross, and Warner House assembled safety and awareness materials for local HIV/AIDS clinics. SigEp
and Turner decided to combine forces and organized a field day through Ada Jenkins for youths from the Davidson area.

This event was by no means PCC's first. Emily May '10, Maret Seitz '10, Emily Cannon '10, Katie Miller '10,
and Kate Wiseman '10 created 4,000 packets containing condoms and other items promoting safe sex.

Flu shots and cake available in the Union this week

By Evan KREUTZER
Guest Columnist

It's flu vaccine time! Yes, even you, the clever Davidson student with a plethora of excuses, need to get the
vaccine. Last year, I heard every excuse in the book. This year, I'm calling you on them:

“The shot hurts / I don't like needles.” The pain of a week-long fever or making up four days of
missed assignments is far worse. In the hands of our expert nurses, you'll barely feel a prick. I'll even hold
your hand if that helps. Beat the chills this season with a shot!

“But I can get the flu from the vaccine.” The version of the vaccine that we administer comes from an
inactivated (or “dead”) flu virus. You simply cannot get the flu from the vaccine, so you'd be dead wrong if
you thought otherwise (pun intended).

“Well, that may be so, but I know I got sick last year right after I got the shot. How
do you explain that, huh?” Good try, but you can't blame the vaccine. It can take up to two weeks
after receiving the shot for your body to build up a solid defense against the flu. If you contract the
flu in the days before you get the vaccine or right afterward, you can still get sick. That's probably what
happened.

“I don't want to have an allergic reaction to the shot.” Allergic reactions to the shot are rare,but we screen
for them ahead of time. Rest assured, you would probably already know if you were allergic to it. “I've never
gotten the flu before; I know I won't get it this year.” Well, you've pretty much jinxed yourself now. Despite
what some of us think, no one is immune to the flu. You can minimize your risk by washing your
hands, not kissing your sick girlfriend, or eating and sleeping well.

Foray into community service, nor will it be its last. For example, on Oct 20, Connor and KA held a
tennis tournament that raised $1,089 for the Jay Chitty Memorial Scholarship. Throughout the year, Connor also raises breast cancer awareness
through the Bosom Buddies campaign, and KA sends volunteers to the Davidson/Cornelius Daycare center three times a week. “We also
want to show our own members that service doesn't have to be an obligation or a chore. We want them
to realize helping others can be satisfying for them as well, and that they don't have to devote every aspect
of their lives to service in order to make a difference.” -- Libby Hubbard ’08

Turner volunteers regularly as well. Every week, Turner sends tutors to the Ada Jenkins Center, and members are currently being
certified as Big Sisters for the Big Sister-Little Sister organization of America. Likewise, SAE is developing a long-term partnership with
the American Red Cross. This year, the fraternity has already helped the organization move offices and also organized a campus-wide
canvassing project to raise awareness. In addition, last year Rusk's Education for All Ball (in collaboration with PS and Engage
for Change) raised $157,000, enough to cover education for 50 students for four years in Kalifi, Kenya, and to treat
over 22,000 children for parasites.

But the flu vaccine is the best way to protect yourself. “I don't have time to get a flu shot.”
I'll bet you have time to eat our free cake. It'll take you 10 minutes to get the shot and
finish your cake, unless you want seconds. “I don't want to pay for the shot.” You don't, at least not
on the spot. The $20 cost gets billed home with your tuition. What's $40,020 compared to $40,000 a year?

On Nov 17, house members will participate in Service Destination Unknown, in which girls will be divided into groups and
spend the day working at a volunteering site without knowing where they're going until the day they leave. PCC's next
big service event is Warner's Annual Red and Black Ball, which benefits the Metrolina Aids Project and Building Tomorrow. The
dance will be held on December 1st, and Warner Hall is planning on sponsoring a series of events to raise
awareness and promote education about HIV/AIDS. Although Patterson Court members may be better known for their social activities, their service
and impact on the lives of those around us are major parts of joining their organizations. So next time you
plan on visiting the Court on the weekend, remember that the majority of excited Davidson students were ballin’ for a
cause.

Ruskie Michele Torsiglieri '10 smiles. “I got the shot last year so I don't need it again.” False. The shot's
only good for a year, so you'll need to get it again if you want to continue being flu-free. So
you think you've got a better excuse? Then try me. Just come by the Union Atrium on Thursday, Nov 8
or Wednesday, Nov 14 from 10 am to 4 pm. If you stump me, then I will give you as
much free cake as you desire.
