THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE REVEREND NOELLE DAMICO
National Coordinator, PC(USA) Campaign for Fair Food

Every so often we are offered the opportunity to contribute to a significant advancement in human society. Davidson College alumnus
and Burger King CEO John Chidsey, trustee and founder of the College’s Chidsey Leadership Development program, has been offered such
an opportunity with the Coalition of Immokalee Workers (CIW) to ensure the human rights of farm workers harvesting Burger King’s
tomatoes. But, to the dismay of the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.), Mr. Chidsey and his company have not only failed to
respond but have inexplicably sought to undermine these historic advances, perpetuating poverty wages and, in some instances, labor in modern-day
slavery. These deplorable conditions have been documented by the U.S. Department of Labor and Oxfam. The slavery cases have been
prosecuted by the U.S. Department of Justice using laws dating from Reconstruction. The CIW, a community-based farm worker organization in
southwest Florida, was presented the Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights award and received commendation from the FBI for its groundbreaking
work in combating slavery and engaging corporations with these issues. In fact, just this week, the CIW was honored with
the Anti-Slavery International award for its exceptional accomplishments.

Since 2005, the PC(USA) General Assembly and congregations across the country have called on Burger King to work with the
CIW to address these human rights abuses, in keeping with Jesus’ proclamation of “good news to the poor.” [To learn
more visit www.pcusa.org/fairfood.]

During his Oct. 3 Leadership Development lecture, Mr. Chidsey was asked by a concerned Davidson student whether his company was
prepared to address these issues. Sadly, Mr. Chidsey took this opportunity to assail the CIW’s integrity, to “debunk the myth”
of farm worker poverty, and to insist that churches need “the facts” explained to them. Any one of these comments
alone would have been disturbing. Together, they suggest a conscious attempt to roll back the first human rights advances for
Florida farm workers in recent history. The CIW has called on Burger King to pay a penny-per-pound increase directly to
farm workers harvesting tomatoes for its suppliers and to establish an enforceable code of conduct in partnership with the workers,
just as McDonald’s and Yum! Brands (Taco Bell, KFC, Pizza Hut, Long John Silver’s, and A&W Restaurants) are already doing.

The PC(USA), which has been at the table for dialogues leading to those agreements, verifies that the CIW has never
demanded that the increase be paid either through or to the CIW. And yet in his Oct. 3 address, Mr.
Chidsey remarked, “The union said the money has to go through them.” This is simply not true. The CIW has
never made such a demand. [Readers may find all statements at http://ciw-online.org/BKresponse.html.] Yet, despite that retraction, Mr. Chidsey persists in
making false statements to defend his company’s inaction. During his lecture, Mr. Chidsey indicated that Davidson’s Honor Code shaped his
own leadership decisions. College literature explains, “Far from being mere pen-and-ink statements, the Codes are a declaration by the entire
college community—students, faculty, staff, and alumni—that the honorable course is the most just and therefore the best.” The honorable thing
for Mr. Chidsey would be to immediately retract his harmful statement about the CIW and begin respectful dialogue toward a
just agreement with the farm workers. The farm workers, as well as the Davidson community, deserve nothing less.

PERSPECTIVES
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2007

In the Oct. 24 issue of The Davidsonian, the paper’s editors and my fellow columnist Ashley Semble took to the
pages of the Perspectives Section urging the Davidson community to become more environmentally friendly and applauding the measures that we’ve
already taken. They cited the success of the eco co-op and green initiatives on other college campuses while exhorting us
to do our part to reduce our own impact on the environment. These are all noble sentiments, to be sure,
but they represent an approach to Global Warming that isn’t up to the task. Climate Change is far too big
and too complex an issue to be solved by individual acts of environmental virtue; it will take national and international
political action to deal with the problem.

One of the reasons that individual responses aren’t up to the task is that it is practically impossible for individuals
to figure out the carbon emissions associated with all, or even most of, their lives. Carbon emission is so pervasive
in our economy that it is practically impossible for someone to determine exactly what their carbon footprint is. It is
therefore next to impossible for someone to voluntarily reduce their emissions in an effective way. With a national carbon tax
or cap-and-trade system, this problem disappears. If the production of a particular good requires a lot of carbon, it will
become more expensive than a more efficient alternative; if a company can offer a service or product with a smaller
carbon footprint than its competitors, that company will prosper and make more of its efficient product. Individuals will not need
to trace their carbon usage up the supply chain to figure out how best to save the planet.

The more compelling reason, however, is that there are many, many people and institutions that will never change their habits
through environmental moral-suasion—nor should they be expected to. Corporations are legally obliged to produce a profit for their shareholders; Americans
close to or in poverty are not about to buy more expensive cars and appliances or go without air conditioning
because they were asked to by Al Gore. China, India, and other developing nations are even less likely to take
drastic action on their own. This kind of moralistic carbon reduction is reserved for the well-off. Unless everyone else makes
similar changes, we will never make the kind of emissions reductions that are necessary to keep the problem manageable. Rather
than sermons and individual demonstrations of environmental friendliness, we need to change our institutions.so that those groups will participate in
the solution. First off, this means either a substantial carbon tax or an auctioned cap-and-trade regime. Both of these measures
attach a price to carbon and then let the market work its magic. A cap-and-trade system was effective in reducing
acid rain in Appalachia; it should be effective on a larger scale. Second, a large investment towards alternative energy sources
research, probably funded by the revenue from the carbon tax or carbon credit auction, will eventually provide us with the
technological means to solve the problem using technologies that can be shared with developing countries. This is the kind of
action that will make the kind of changes we need: a large-scale institutional solution that can only be reached through
the political process. So, by all means, live in the eco co-op, recycle, turn down the thermostat—whatever. The environment is
extremely important, and these things help, but keep it in perspective. No matter how many cans you recycle, no matter
how much gas you might save, it is only a tiny part of the larger problem. The only way to
really fight climate change is to push national policies, and the only way to do that is through national politics.
In the end, voting and political activism will do more for the planet than all of the campus initiatives in
the world. Zeke Webster '09 is a Political Science major from Clemmons, N.C. Contact him at zewebster@davidson.edu.

Community bikes not all they’re cracked up to be
JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

A few weeks ago, Davidson students and affiliates greeted the much-anticipated seasonal return of the community bikes with a hum
of excitement and nostalgia for the College’s quaint tradition. Always an anticipated event, the campus would not be complete without
these gleaming yellow idols of transportation propped up on the sidewalk, potential energy ready to aid us in our hour
of need. Whether we grab one with two minutes to spare or merely enjoy pedaling like a maniac just to
coast down the hill, I would venture to say nearly all of us have utilized these bi-wheeled bouts of fun
and frolic. All except one of us, for sure.

Coming a semester late last year, it took me about halfway into the spring term to realize that the yellow
bikes around campus were available to students, probably because no one really enjoys pedaling up the hill, and leave most
bikes to dwell around the Court. By the time I learned about their existence, I was too accustomed to my
advantageous Davidson-centric Base Belk (shout out to the ladies!) location to care. Until this year. Living down the hill, after
approximately the first hour on campus, I realized that a bike would be nice, nay, imperative, to make my life
easier. At this point I began to anticipate the bikes’ debut. For the first few weeks, I roughed it around
campus, walking between classes and the Union, Commons and Main Street, a loyal member of Davidson’s infantry. Then the day
dawned when I saw them. Cerebral floodgates opened as scenarios of possibility sped forth like Lance in the Tour de
France. Tired of walking back to my room? Grab a bike! Want to sleep longer before class? I can make
up the minutes. The walk to Chambers becoming a beast? At least half the trip can exceed two miles per
hour.

In all my excitement, what I did not take into account was something so fundamental, so biologically embarrassing, I would
refuse to admit this had I not a dearth of shame. One morning a few days after the bikes’ release,
I walked out of my dorm and encountered a bike sitting in front of me. Wasting no time, I walked
up to it. But as I swung a leg around, suddenly the bike began tottering on its flimsy rest and
I fought to regain balance. Then trying to stretch one foot to reach the pedal, I realized, to my complete
horror, that my legs were too short. I am too short. The bike is too big. Completely oblivious to inquisitive
onlookers, I dismounted and repeated the actions of this unfortunate misfit, bike still threatening to topple and take me with
it. I tried to lower the seat, but it was secured too high. I tried to grab onto the handlebars
for stability, but crestfallen, this only confirmed that now my arms are too short to use them. This apoptotic realization
made me question how these bikes were designed: supposedly for the community. Now, one would generally assume that if the
average person in the community of Davidson wanted to use a bike, they could. The bikes were created for the
average person. I’m not a towering individual by any means, but I am no hobbit either. So standing at 5
feet 3 inches, short arms akimbo, I have to ask — for whom are they made? Am I really such
an anomaly of vertical stature? Why haven’t these awkward bikes been made with people who are 5 feet 3 (or
shorter) in mind?

Now when I pass the monstrous bikes propped along the sidewalk, handlebars mockingly turned and beckoning me to reattempt a
ride, I am reminded of the irony of the ubiquitous community bike: available to all but only proportionally so. And
unless I revert back to the third grade to drink milk in the hope of sprouting four inches, I seriously
doubt that yellow bike rides are in my immediate future. It is unfortunate, because these bikes have so much to
offer students. But what use are the bikes if you can’t even reach their pedals? In addition, I can’t recall
the number of times I have seen these bikes abandoned with chains hanging off their tracks and handlebars cocked at
unnatural angles. Several people have reported the bikes completely giving out mid-ride. In short (yes, I just did), the bikes
are wonderful in concept but lack practicality for the average commuter. So for those of you who can use these
bikes, my sincerest congratulations. Not only do you officially pass the height requirement, but you enjoy one of the most
whimsical traditions of our school. In the meantime, I will stick to riding the stationary bike in the weight room
and walking to my eight-thirty.

Jennifer Errington is a Classics major from Charlotte, N.C. Contact her at jeerrington@davidson.edu.

The author of the article titled “Free Speech Board” on page 1 of the Nov. 7 issue of The Davidsonian
is Katherine. The picture accompanying Zeke Webster's article from the Nov. 7 issue of The Davidsonian was actually Professor of
Math Sarah Mason. See him above.
