+ DAVIDSON COLLEGE @ "THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY" @ WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2007 First Class U.S. Postage PAID PERMIT #1 Davidson, NC — VOLUME 99, NUMBER 12

Tom Ross looks back on his first semester

Editor-in-Chief Summerlee Walter sat down with President Tom Ross on his 133rd day in office to discuss his first semester at Davidson.

The Davidsonian: How have your expectations of Davidson matched the realities of Davidson?

Tom Ross: I think pretty closely. My sense of where the College is—my sense before I came—has proven pretty accurate in most cases. It’s been pleasing to come back and see the strength of the Honor Code and its pervasive impact on the community and the environment it creates of trust, and I think it’s particularly good to see it pushed out into the broader community, beyond the students and the faculty, to the staff as well. Beyond that, the financial situation, the way the College is, a lot of those are known to me from serving on the Board. I don’t think I’ve been surprised in any way. I’ve learned a lot, but I don’t think I’ve been surprised.

On November 24, the light-rail system opened in Charlotte. Will we soon see these trains coming to Davidson?

Davidsonian conversation with Jason Richards

Davidson point guard Jason Richards ’08 has led the Wildcat attack for the last two years. He currently leads the nation in assists with an average of 9.0 dishes per game.

The Davidsonian: This team has had more media coverage this year than at any time in the last several decades. Do you have any particular approach to handling all of these interviews and press conferences?

On the inside...

News
Dangling Clauses, page 2
Town Development, page 3

Yowl
Honor Code doesn’t apply in library, page 5
Town police cars better than Town police, page 5

Arts
Twelve steps to reducing stress, page 6

Perspectives
Good-bye, page 7
Don’t heart Huckabee, page 8

Sports
Will Bryan’s farewell, page 9

And don’t forget to check out the online edition.

D: Something that we’ve been thinking about a lot with finals season upon us is stress. What plans, if any, do you have to deal with the student stress and mental health issues that have become so prevalent on campus?

TR: I’ve already tried to begin addressing those issues. I’ve been trying to learn as much about them as I can from talking to students and faculty by creating the student-faculty forums which I hope will continue next semester, so that students have an opportunity to share what life is like from their perspective to faculty and vice versa. I think I’ve also learned that part of the stress is induced by factors beyond the academic load, by involvement in lots of organizations, the push to be involved in lots of different things. So I’ve been thinking about how we can help students, particularly when they first come to Davidson, to come to grips with time management perhaps a little better. That may mean doing better training for our faculty advisors to help encourage students to take it slow to begin with, not to jump into lots of things right away. I think also...The mentality that people come to college with is that they need to build their resumes. See Ross, page 4.

Charlotte light rail opening a ‘defining moment in city’s history’
By Monica Jamouneau
News Editor

“A defining moment in the city’s history.” That is how The Charlotte Observer described the opening of the light rail in Charlotte on Nov. 24. Throughout the last semester, and in truth the last few years, Davidson has become increasingly aware of the encroachment of Charlotte’s sprawl upon the little town at Exit 30. Discussions of the construction of new Harris Teeters, schools, and other businesses have also been a major focus in The Davidsonian, and the paper has tried to present a fair, accurate picture of the Town of Davidson throughout history and the effect that development has already had here.

The much-anticipated Lynx light rail transit system opened on Nov. 24, right on schedule, to a huge crowd of thousands of Charlotte city commuters and curious travelers. Especially at the southernmost station, at Interstate 485, the mass of people overwhelmed the station. As the Charlotte Observer reported: “There, more than 1,000 people formed a line that snaked from the platform back into the parking garage. Police closed the garage to incoming cars because so many people had filled the area.”

The $462.7 million, 9.6-mile-long railway, voted in by over 70 percent of voters, has continued to succeed since its grand opening two weeks ago. The system has 15 stations located in a north-south line from uptown Charlotte to Interstate 485. The so-called South Corridor “blue line” project will be the first of five spokes radiating from uptown Charlotte, proposed in a 25-year, $3.9 billion plan. It is North Carolina’s first light rail, and the Charlotte Area Transit System (CATS) expects to carry 9,100 passenger trips on an average weekday during its first year of operation. CATS expects that amount to decrease slightly as the novelty of the new mode of transportation wears off, reports the Observer, but by 2025, the amount is expected to have increased to See Light rail, page 4.

Jason Richards: We actually had a media specialist come in at the beginning of the year to help us handle the pressure and give us tips on how to address them. I think it was really helpful for a lot of our guys who had never experienced that. Going in, Coach McKillop knew that we would have a lot of coverage this year. It’s been great for the program and the school as a whole.

D: Has there been any type of question that has gotten on your nerves the most this year?
JR: They always ask me why I did this or that. And it’s kind of hard to answer those questions sometimes. They also try to get me to only talk about myself and my own performance, but we all want to put it back on the team and talk about our group as a whole. That’s what Davidson is about.

D: I remember some times when they would ask you and Thomas Sander to specifically talk about Stephen Curry. Did that ever get on your nerves?
JR: No. None of us care who See Richards, page 10.

UCLA's Darren Collison.