10 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2007

The Big Ten has big time problems
By OMAR PICKETT

It's amazing how far the mighty have fallen. Earlier this summer, most pundits considered the Big Ten to be one
of the strongest conferences in college football. The conference had national championship caliber teams, experienced coaches, and a bevy of
future NFL stars on almost every team. Michigan was ranked fifth in the Associated Press preseason top 25, Wisconsin was
ranked seventh, and Ohio State was 11th. After a shaky bowl season culminating in Southern Cal thumping Michigan and Florida
annihilating Ohio State in the national championship, Big Ten football fans expected to see the conference bounce back and show
they belonged in the discussions of college football’s top conferences.

Three weeks into the season these hopes are dead. With one heartbreaking loss after another, the conference’s credibility diminishes. At
this point, the only good news for the Big 10 is that, as long as the ACC is still a
BCS conference, it won’t be considered the worst.

Problems exist throughout the conference. With offensive schemes probably considered new and exciting during WWII and defenses that look like
they’ve made one too many trips to Bojangles over the summer, it is no wonder that the conference has produced
so many embarrassing performances in non-conference games.

Let’s start with Michigan, one of the most historically successful teams. They had seniors who were supposed to lead the
Wolverines to the national championship. (The NCAA video game reflects the expectation; they are ranked 99 out of 100!) In
week one, they were the victim of the biggest upset in college football history courtesy of our Mountaineer friends in
Boone, 34-32. If they stumbled in week one, they laid an egg in week two, as the Oregon Ducks took
them to the woodshed, 39-7. Did I mention that both of these games were home games?

But while Michigan’s struggles have been well-documented, other Big 10 teams had their fair share of early season embarrassments. Iowa,
a team that experts considered a sleeper in the conference, lost to its lowly state rival, Iowa State. The Wisconsin
Badgers, the favorite to win the Big 10, not only found themselves in a nail-biter with the Running Rebels of
UNLV, but were in serious danger of being the second Big Ten team to lose to a Southern Conference team
this year, as the Citadel played them close in a 45-31 game. Minnesota is in a total freefall, losing to
Bowling Green and Florida Atlantic. To top things off, Northwestern ruined Duke’s epic losing streak, giving Duke its first win
in nearly two years and its first road win in nearly four years!

One could argue that the Big Ten is not as horrible as advertised. It is the only conference with three
teams in the top 10. However, none of the three teams has looked very impressive. The conference has not defeated
one non-conference, ranked opponent. And no team looks to be a serious national championship contender. No offense to my friends
from the northern Pacific, but if the conference’s premiere victory comes against Washington, then something is desperately wrong with Big
Ten football. Rest assured, these problems will definitely be evident by bowl season.

Omar Pickett ’09 is a men’s basketball manager who loves Bojangles, fudgesicles, and shifting government documents.

Field Hockey splits games, Goeke honored
By RAY FRANCIS

The Wildcats’ field hockey team split a pair of conference games last week, dropping a 2-0 heartbreaker to California on
regulation, and Sarah Addison ’09 scored with just over a minute to play to give the Wildcats a 2-1 edge.
Kayli Maxwell ’08 assisted on both goals. The Wildcats appeared to have the game in hand, but the Lancers were
not ready to giveup. Mary Freeman converted a penalty stroke with no time remaining to send the game to overtime.
The California Bears dominated the Wildcats in time of possession and outshot Davidson 23-4. Despite these numbers, Davidson managed to
keep California off the board for over 60 minutes. Ashley Glosz finally scored for the Bears with 8:44 remaining on
a penalty shot, and Jennifer Crane added another score off a penalty corner a minute later to secure the win.

Christa Goeke ’10 made 10 saves for the Wildcats, including a sliding stop seven minutes into the second half to
preserve the shutout for a time.

“I thought we played well and worked hard tonight,” coach Ginny Sutton said after the Thursday game. “Our defenders made
some tremendous plays, and Christa had another great night, but we just had a tough time getting the ball to
our forwards.”

Davidson had better fortune Sunday afternoon against conference foe Longwood, winning 3-2 in double overtime. After a scoreless first half,
the Lancers’ Christin Newbold broke the stalemate seven minutes into the second half with a goal. Catherine Ransone ’08 scored
with 10 minutes to go in regulation, and Mary Freeman converted a penalty stroke with no time remaining to send
the game to overtime.

Longwood held a slim 13-12 edge in shots during regulation before dominating the first overtime session, outshooting the Wildcats 10-1
and earning five penalty corners. However, the Cats’ defense, led by Goeke’s 12 saves, weathered the storm and forced a
second overtime period. Goeke’s fantastic performance earned her NorPac Defensive Player of the Week honors for the week of September
18.

Eighty seconds into the second session, Maxwell, who secured Offensive Player of the Week honors earlier this season, put a
penalty corner in the back of the net to give the Wildcats their most dramatic victory of the season.

“I thought the game was a really good example of how we can keep fighting and come out with the
win,” Maxwell said. “Even though Longwood out-shot us in the first overtime, we didn’t let that get us down. We
kept fighting and were able to get a penalty stroke that luckily went in. I believe that today’s win will
help us in the next few weeks with the rest of our NorPac games.”

This week’s results leave the Wildcats at 4-2 overall and 1-2 in the NorPac. The team will play the Radford
Highlanders on Wednesday and Appalachian State in Boone on Sunday.

Volleyball (5-7)
3-0 loss against UC Irvine
3-0 loss against Cal Bakersfield
3-0 loss against Arizona
Next up: 9/14 vs. UC Irvine, 9/15 vs. Cal State Bakersfield

Football (2-1)
21-20 win against Lenoir-Rhyne
Next up: Bye Week

Women’s Soccer (2-3)
3-1 win against Mercer
Next up: 9/21 vs. Vanderbilt, 9/23 vs. LSU

Men’s Soccer (1-3)
1-5 loss against Charlotte
Next up: 9/21 vs. California, 9/23 vs. Stanford

Field Hockey (3-1)
2-0 loss against California
3-2 win against Longwood
Next up: 9/19 vs. Radford, 9/23 at Appalachian State

Cross Country
Men 8K
8- Morris, Sam (26:32)
23- Sieracki, Thaddeus (28:18)
25- Schmitt, Charlie (28:35)
27- Marcil, Greg (28:45)

Women 5K
1- Sanker, Caroline (17:12)
2- Burns, Brenna (17:20)
4- Annie O'Donnell (18:26)
6- Childs, Lauren (18:44)

Notes:
Kirk Benedict ’10 leads the team with three touchdowns. Kirk Konert ’09 is the first Wildcat to receive for 100
yards or more in a game since Ryan Hubbard ’08 had 189 against Butler last year. Despite his individual milestone,
the team has dropped 4 straight games.

Bevin English ’08 added 8 saves to her record, while the Wildcats jumped out to 2-0 on the season at
Alumni Field for the second year in a row.

Robby Hoak ’08 scored his second goal of the year in the soccer team’s 5-1 defeat against Charlotte.

Goalkeeper Christa Goeke ’10 received NorPac Defensive Player of the Week honors after her stellar play against Longwood.

Sarabeth Peele ’11 gained a spot on the All Tournament Team at the Arizona Invitational.

Caroline Sanker ’09 set a school record for the 5K.
