THE DAVIDSONIAN

Development, from page 1

However, the Planning Ordinance required that ETJ landowners maintain—without compensation—50% of their land as "open space." The ETJ regulations sparked outcry from ETJ residents. Ninety percent of ETJ landowners joined "Stop Taking Our Property" (STOP). Protestors posted signs around town and in the ETJ that read, "Stop the Land Grab," and "Don’t Take Our Land." Residents felt that they were being denied the opportunity to maximize the profit value of their land when approached with offers from developers. The town maintained that such restrictions would ultimately increase land value and desirability. ETJ residents threatened to sue the town for an infringement of their rights.

The possibility of a commuter rail train stop between Davidson and neighboring Mooresville brought the two towns together in 2006 to discuss the implications of both the train and wider growth. The commuter rail continued to be a much-discussed and yet unresolved transport issue. In 2006, The Charlotte Observer reported that Davidson’s population was 8,100. Krider estimated at the time that the number would increase to 14,000 with projected growth and development. This year, Krider told The Davidsonian that he expects growth to level off at about 15,000 or 16,000 people. The town’s goal, as reported by The Observer, was "to attract young professionals and empty nesters who want to live within walking distance of businesses and a stop on the proposed commuter train to Charlotte. The 5,200 to 5,500 people who live in downtown reside mostly in older single-family homes."

Also in 2006, after lengthy negotiations and discussions, two roundabouts kicked off Exit 30 development at Davidson Gateway Drive and Griffith Street, and at the intersection of Griffith and Jetton Streets. "We are looking at a long-term plan that begins with the roundabouts," Krider told The Lake Norman Times.

ETJ residents and the town of Davidson finally reached a settlement in which the town bought a significant portion of the ETJ land, including Fisher Farm, for conservation. The Charlotte Observer reported that the town consulted College biology professors to create a map outlining which areas in the ETJ were optimal for preservation and which were better suited for building. Despite the town’s good-faith efforts to conserve land in a time of rapid growth, the ETJ land issue polarized Davidson area residents.

The Planning Ordinance included an APFO, or "Adequate Public Facilities Ordinance," which was designed to "see to it that we don’t have more development than we can adequately accommodate," Mayor Randall Kincaid said. The primary facilities outlined in the APFO were streets, law enforcement, fire protection, community parks, greenways, and affordable housing. The Observer also reported on Davidson’s APFO, which it says is the only one in existence in the Lake Norman area. "The town stands to collect more than $1 million in the next few years to go toward law enforcement, community parks, and greenways if all of its approved projects are built," Krider told The Observer. "Most developers will incur a charge of about $2,000 per unit per building in Davidson."

In 2002, CVS approached the town about the then-empty lot on the corners of Main and Lorimer. The town and CVS negotiated design and style issues to ensure that the building would comply with the Planning Ordinance and town development vision.

The Charlotte Area Transit System (CATS) Transit chief Ron Tober recommended to the Metropolitan Transit Commission (MTC) that it pursue the commuter rail to University City. The projected costs were higher than the similar 2002 plan the MTC approved. "We’re working on a multi-billion-dollar project that’s occurring over a 20- to 30-year period," Kincaid said.

The Observer reported a disturbing fact—that it had become impossible to find a 1,000-acre block of contiguous "raw land" and residential developments were scheduled to open their doors in 2007, including the Harris Teeter, the retail and office complex. In 2003, consistent with its vision of managed growth, the town approved the development of 50 acres in the northeast quadrant near Exit 30. According to Blackburn, "[t]he intent is to draw the development pressure to the exit," leaving downtown free to grow in a manner consistent with its small-town image.

In 2005, Cornelius, Davidson, and Huntersville began discussing the possibility of a co-developed industrial park. The towns finalized the deal later in the year, sharing four million dollars in purchasing and development costs. Prairie Packaging, which manufactures disposable dinnerware, moved into the facility, bringing with it a projected 240 new jobs and $48 million in investment, according to The Observer.

After Fall Break, the series will resume with coverage of current development projects and the upcoming town elections.

Habitat, from page 1

Working closely with this Wildcat House has proven to be the...Highlight of my year thus far. I feel very privileged to have a role in continuing this project, the lifeblood of which has been the amazing support of Davidson students, faculty, and townspeople. From last year’s fundraising to this year’s construction, this project has revealed yet again how incredible the members of our community can be. The house will cost approximately $66,550 to build, and a portion of that money will go towards constructing three more Habitat houses in Guatemala as part of Habitat International’s tithing program. Habitat affiliates, such as Our Town’s Habitat for Humanity, through which Davidson Habitat operates, send approximately $5,000 from every house they fund to build other houses overseas. For more information or to volunteer, please email Josh Carson or contact Kevin Buechler by email or phone at (704) 894-2298.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2007

Union to close earlier on weekends?
By Monica JAMOUNEAU
News Editor

The Student Government Association (SGA) met last week to debate a number of issues, mostly focusing on a discussion of the new “Real Talk” initiative, the need to update campus maps scattered on College property, and whether the Union will retain its late-night hours or close earlier on weekends.

On the issue of the maps, senators and other students have noticed that the large campus maps found in locations especially off Main St. and Concord Rd. are out-of-date. The CoHo House and FIJI House are misrepresented, and some visitors to campus who are looking for the Outpost mistakenly go to FIJI. Though the maps were put up only a few years ago, campus geography has changed since that time. David Greene '08, vice-president of SGA, said that the issue could be handled outside of a resolution and recommended that SGA speak to Admissions about the maps. “This is something that should be handled through committees,” Chris Burton '08, president of SGA, said. He advised that SGA representatives speak to Admissions and Director of the Physical Plant David Holthouser to address and correct the problem.

The student votes for the Real Talk project were tallied last week, and by number of votes, the results are: environmental policy (95), diversity (91), mental illness (81), alcohol policy (66), town development (53), honor council (31), sexual misconduct (29), and other (20). There were a total of 466 votes. The senators debated whether, because of recent events involving diversity discourse and race issues, the Real Talk Project should continue to discuss diversity rather than move onto the new most popular topic of environmental policy. Whitney White '08 said that she can see the “importance of capitalizing on momentum” and continuing the diversity dialogue. “I think people were making a very informed decision,” she said, “and diversity and environmental policy are close.”

Other senators felt that with the higher vote outcome and the current drought situation, environmental policy would be very important to discuss in Real Talk. “I want to thank everyone for their hard work,” Burton said at the meeting. The rationale behind Real Talk, he added, was “to create passion in people,” and he reminded senators that they need to commit themselves fully in order for it to work.

Following that discussion, William Brown, the College Union Director and Coordinator of Student Activities, addressed the room. Brown said that he has done many surveys and spoken to students, and food is always the number one priority for those visiting and using the Union. “It’s above meetings. It’s above events. It’s the principal reason people come,” he said. When the Outpost opened, the late-night hours saw fewer students. He proposes closing the Union earlier on Fridays and Saturdays, at 1:30 a.m. “I think we’re ready to do this,” he said. Students surveyed came to the Union in large numbers at the beginning of the semester, but after First Night Down, these numbers dropped significantly. “I think we can probably close at 1:30 a.m.,” he said, “and let the workers go home early. We have never had a program that late.” Some senators expressed concern that an earlier closing would affect Union gym hours on the bottom floor. Brown answered that there would still be CatCard access and that only Friday and Saturday hours would be changed. Although the Union would not be saving a substantial amount of money by this action, Brown emphasized that the workers in the Union Cafe and other staff needed in the building would be able to go home at a more reasonable time. “It’s not a huge amount of money [we would be saving],” Brown said. “It definitely takes a toll on the person that works there.”

White reminded everyone at the conclusion of the meeting that the Academic Policy Committee will discuss the educational experience for students at Davidson tonight, Wednesday evening, at 7:30 p.m. in the Union.

Burger, from page 1

“smaller things in life more fun.” Eighteen months after arriving at Burger King, Chidsey was named CEO of Burger King Inc. and continues to take risks even in that line of work. Several students questioned Chidsey on the problems he has encountered in the business world. “You’re often faced with ethical decisions in life, but the ethical training you get here [Davidson] will serve you well.” Chidsey suggested that because of such training, Davidson students are better leaders than many of those found in the business world. Chidsey ended his lecture by encouraging students to do as much as they can internationally and to go out and change the world. “Take risks in life,” he told the audience. “If you don’t take risks in life, usually good things don’t happen.”