THE DAVIDSONIAN

Field Hockey wins one of three on Northeast road trip

By Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

The Davidson field hockey team spent its fall break in New Hampshire, winning one out of three matches before the conference tournament, which begins November 1.

The road trip began with a 3-1 loss to Dartmouth. Britti Himmelfarb ’09 scored in the 10th minute to give the Wildcats an early edge. However, first-half goals by Katy Hagy and Ashley Hines allowed the Big Green to enter intermission with the lead. Allison Weinstock scored an early second-half goal to ice the game for Dartmouth. Christa Goeke ’10 made seven saves for the Wildcats, matching the total of her Dartmouth counterpart Jordan Sedlacek. The Wildcats were outshot 20-16 and were on the short side of a 7-6 tally of penalty corners.

Davidson’s fortunes improved the following day, though, as the Wildcats pulled out their second overtime victory of the season, claiming a 4-3 decision against Maine. Eleanor Cowley ’08 scored the game-winner on an unassisted goal after eight minutes of overtime. Catherine Ransone ’08 scored two quick goals in the first half to give Davidson an early edge. The Black Bears were able to tie the game before halftime, getting their second goal as time expired. Maine held onto its momentum coming out of the locker room, scoring the go-ahead goal in the 52nd minute. Kayli Maxwell ’08, the team’s leading scorer, was able to tie the game with her 12th goal of the year with eight minutes to play. Brittany Rollek ’09 played the first half in goal for the Wildcats and recorded seven saves. Goeke played the second half and overtime, tallying eight saves. Maygan Cassarino made five saves for Maine. The Black Bears were unable to capitalize on advantages of 20-11 in shots and 10-8 in penalty corners. They dropped to 4-10 on the season.

The Wildcat road trip ended two days later with a 3-0 loss to New Hampshire. Shauna Sellenger struck first against the Wildcats. She was followed by Kara Napolitano’s and Sam Geary’s goals. Davidson managed only three shots against New Hampshire’s 15 and faced a 12-3 disadvantage in penalty corners. Goeke made 10 saves for Davidson, while her counterpart Margaux Shute was only forced to make one save. The decision dropped Davidson to 8-7 and improved New Hampshire to 8-8.

The Wildcats will host Appalachian State on Wednesday and Radford on Saturday in a pair of non-conference games to close out the season. The Wildcats have beaten both teams earlier this year.

Volleyball extends winning streak to three games at home

By PATRICK DE VISSCHER
Staff Writer

The Wildcats hosted Western Carolina on

Online and LAN Games and Tournaments
State of the Art PCs
Just a mile from Davidson College on 115 and Catawba
Internet Cafe
Home Made Pastries
19900 S. Main St. #2 Cornelius
704-895-8600
Your Second Home...
Open everyday 6:30 AM to 10:00 PM
Bring a friend and buy one coffee and the second one is free with this coupon. Buy one and get another one free of equal or lesser value.

rom an Basket accomplished 749 page. 10. / very limited recruiting E budget, Driesell knew that he had to travel © utside of the Southeast to find some of the’ ‘nation’s. best. basketball players.. He. als / Main St. and encouraged students WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2007 11 the coliseum and put up Davidson ‘signs “Although - he: ea a.» around the concourse entrances to make the ~ Coliseum look like Davidson’s home arena. : * Driesell even opened a pizza parlor’. on” «knew that image was. everything, Snyder 2% 4 * remembered. that Driesell. would drive: to _ regional airports around the country and get“ ’ the parents of his recruits to pick him up, ” making the families believe that he had the « « budget to fly around the country. Driesell’s | _ recruiting creativity was unmatched ¢ even i his own time,"he Charlotte Coliseum for maximum exposure; Driesell apparently would sneak into Saturday and Chattanooga on Sunday in Belk Arena, winning both games 3-1. With these two weekend wins, the team extended its winning streak to three games and improved its record to 4-8 in the SoCon and 9-16 overall. Katie Pierucci ’08 led the way with 24 kills against Western Carolina and 20 kills against Chattanooga. Sarabeth Peele ’11 had 13 kills on Saturday and 14 on Sunday, while Kittery Neale ’09 had 12 kills and 8 blocks against WCU and 15 kills and 11 blocks against Chattanooga.

Against WCU, Davidson built leads of 17-13 and 26-22 during the first game. However, the ’Cats were taken by surprise when the Catamounts stormed back and won the first game 30-28. In the second game, the ’Cats established a 20-12 margin. Pierucci’s two aces maintained Davidson’s eight-point advantage. Davidson seized the second game 30-21, thanks to late kills by Peele and Hayley Lawson ’11. During the third game, the Wildcats faced an early 5-3 deficit. A Catamount hitting error leveled the score at 6-6. Davidson never looked back and won the game 30-25 to establish a 2-1 lead in the match. The ’Cats again trailed 5-3 in game four. Courtney Cron’s ’08 four straight service points turned the tide as Davidson took a 12-9 lead. The Wildcats went on to win 30-20, clinching the match 3-1.

On Sunday, the lead in the first game swung back and forth. The efforts of Tierney Hodge ’09, Pierucci, and Neale helped the ’Cats win the first game 30-28. Despite a 9-1 run to bring them within one point, the Wildcats lost the second game 30-28. With the help of seven straight service points by Cron, Davidson won the third game 30-20. Control in the fourth shifted constantly, but Peele’s late kills clinched the match 3-1 for a 30-28 win.

“Our win over Chattanooga is really a testament to team effort. We’ve known since the first day of preseason that we were capable of being a contender in conference, but we just hadn’t played like it until this weekend,” Pierucci said. The team travels to The Citadel next Saturday and plays league-leading College of Charleston on Sunday in the hopes of continuing the momentum.

“We have newfound confidence and optimism going into our next conference matches, but realize that we’re going to have to work very hard to earn every win,” Hodge said.

Catching 14 passes for 178 yards. The ’Cats will travel to Indianapolis this weekend to take on Butler. They look to extend their winning streak and stay in the hunt for the Pioneer Football League (PFL) Championship.

Sandy Carnegie B.A. Davidson College J.D. University of Richmond Commissioner for the Town of Davidson ’83—'85; ’88—'97 Town of Davidson Commercial and North End Corridor Plan ’05 Mecklenburg County Real Estate Executive Council ’03 to present. Concentrating in Personal Injury Other Areas of Practice Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning, Litigation, Real Estate, Social Security Disability, Wills & Trusts

LAW FIRM In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699 (Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)