ce _created in 1998 to eliminate controversy. Up until this point, the BCS has been a constant failure. Almost every
fall, there is a very deserving team that’s on the outside looking in. Because of the complex formula which incorporates
computer rankings as well as human polls, college football fans are usually left unhappy with the results.

In 2000, while Oklahoma was the clear #1, Miami and Florida State both ended the season 11-1. With Miami ranked
second in the polls and Florida State third, the BCS rankings had Oklahoma #1 and FSU #2, leaving Miami out
of the championship game despite being ranked higher than FSU in the polls. Miami's only loss was to Florida State.

In 2001, while Miami remained undefeated, a slew of upsets knocked out many of the top teams during the last
two weeks of the season. Nebraska, which was thumped 62-36 by Colorado, was knocked out of the Big 12 Championship
Game. Oregon was then ranked second in the polls, while Nebraska was fourth. However, the BCS had Nebraska leapfrog Oregon
and put the team in the national championship despite the fact that Nebraska didn’t even win its conference.

In 2003, Southern California, the #1 team in the Associated Press poll, was left out of the BCS national championship,
which pitted #2 LSU against #3 Oklahoma. What made this controversial was that Oklahoma had lost the Big 12 Championship
Game to Kansas State.

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2007

BY OMAR PICKET
Staff Writer

As the college football season enters its final weeks, BCS controversy already rears its ugly head. So, over the next
few weeks, before another team is unfairly denied a shot at the title, I will explain why the BCS is
bad for college football. The Bowl Championship Series was created in 1998 to eliminate controversy surrounding the national championship. Up
until this point, the BCS has been a constant failure. Almost every fall, there is a very deserving team that’s
on the outside looking in. Because of the complex formula which incorporates computer rankings as well as human polls, college
football fans are usually left unhappy with the results.

In 2000, while Oklahoma was the clear #1, Miami and Florida State both ended the season 11-1. With Miami ranked
second in the polls and Florida State third, the BCS rankings had Oklahoma #1 and FSU #2, leaving Miami out
of the championship game despite being ranked higher than FSU in the polls. Miami's only loss was to Florida State.

In 2001, while Miami remained undefeated, a slew of upsets knocked out many of the top teams during the last
two weeks of the season. Nebraska, which was thumped 62-36 by Colorado, was knocked out of the Big 12 Championship
Game. Oregon was then ranked second in the polls, while Nebraska was fourth. However, the BCS had Nebraska leapfrog Oregon
and put the team in the national championship despite the fact that Nebraska didn’t even win its conference.

In 2003, Southern California, the #1 team in the Associated Press poll, was left out of the BCS national championship,
which pitted #2 LSU against #3 Oklahoma. What made this controversial was that Oklahoma had lost the Big 12 Championship
Game to Kansas State.

---

Volleyball (10-19, 5-11)
11/3 vs. Elon, Lost 2-3
11/4 vs. UNC Greensboro, Lost 0-3

---

McKillop era brings renewed success
By WILL BRYAN
Sports Editor

When Coach Bob McKillop moved to Davidson in 1989, he didn’t make too many long-term plans. While McKillop had been
an assistant at Davidson in 1979, he saw this coaching stint as an opportunity to springboard into the coaching ranks
of major college basketball. McKillop knew Driesell’s story, and he knew that he could use this opportunity to his advantage.

In Driesell’s first year, he made an immediate impact by upsetting Wake Forest early in the season. McKillop went 4-24
with a team that wasn’t even playing in the Southern Conference. The next two years were not much better. By
the time Davidson rejoined the Southern Conference in 1992, McKillop had been humbled enough to realize that maybe he should
refocus his priorities. The Queens native came to buy into the Davidson way and invested all of his mind and
self in the Wildcat program. McKillop changed his philosophy and success followed.

The Wildcats made their first postseason appearance under McKillop in 1994 when they were selected to the NIT after losing
by one point in the Southern Conference tournament Championship Game. Two years later the Wildcats had one of their best
seasons ever as they went 14-0 in conference play and only lost three regular season games. But NCAA glory once
again eluded the ’Cats as Western Carolina knocked off Davidson in the tournament championship game. It was a heartbreaking loss
for a senior class that included eventual NBA player and Davidson Hall of Famer Brandon Williams. Although the Wildcats lost
in the first round of the NIT that year, a more important thing had transpired during the four-year careers of
players like Williams and Chris Alpert: Davidson basketball had become a winning program again.

The Wildcats won Southern Conference tournaments in 1998 and 2002 and have advanced to the postseason each of the last
three years. McKillop has led Davidson to four SoCon championships and three NIT appearances during his tenure at Davidson. McKillop
would go on to fashion the talents of players like Ali Ton, Landry Kosmalski, Michael Bree, Chris Pearson, and Brendan
Winters into a winning system. That system called for effective perimeter passing, unceasing picks and screens, and the ability of
every player on the court to hit jump shots. McKillop also emphasized extremely physical defense and smart basketball. Whether McKillop
brought in a player from North Carolina or the Czech Republic, they were all taught to play one way: as
a team.

Perhaps that is why the McKillop Era is one of the biggest success stories in Davidson basketball history.

---

Men’s soccer stumbles at season’s end
By ZACHARY ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Although the final scores this week did not show it, the men’s soccer team played three stellar matches against excellent
teams. They may not have earned the wins, but during this final stretch of the season, the Wildcats...have proven themselves
to be a respectable adversary. On Halloween, the team played the Duke University Blue Devils, on Saturday they faced off
against the College of Charleston, and on Tuesday they battled Wake Forest. Prior to this week’s games, the team was
on a four-game winning streak. Unfortunately, the #17 Blue Devils snuck out of Alumni Stadium with a win. Davidson did
not let the Devils leave without a Halloween scare, though. The first half was purely defensive with goalie Matt McElroy
’11 making two big saves. McElroy is the third-string goalie and stepped up four games ago when the second-string goalie
got injured. McElroy shows nothing but promise as he registered a save off of a direct shot at the seven-minute
mark and another at the 24-minute mark when he dove to the right to stop a powerful post shot. At
the half, the game remained scoreless. McElroy would not let anything get between the posts, and the Davidson defense came
up big on many of Duke’s offensive attempts.

Women’s Soccer (14-4-1, 8-1-1)
11/1 vs. Georgia Southern, Won 2-0
11/4 vs. Wofford, Won 2-1
Next up:
11/9 at App State
11/10 vs. Valparaiso
11/13 SoCon Championship

Notes:
Katie Pierucci ’08 tied her career high total of 24 kills in the team’s tough five-game loss to Elon.
The Wildcats look to finish above .500 for the third year in a row.
The Wildcats were recognized in both the National Soccer Coaches Association of America/adidas and Soccer Buzz Magazine regional polls for
the second time this year.

After the half, the game remained scoreless for 29 minutes. At the 74-minute mark, Duke brought the ball down the
near side of the field, and Joe Germanese sent a cross to the box where Zach Pope headed it into
the net to put Duke up 1-0. Only 10 minutes later, Davidson led a fiery offensive and almost tied the
game up when Charlie Reiter ’10 lined up for a free kick, missing by inches when the ball hit the
top bar and came straight down. Davidson had three more shots on goal in the second half but could not
sneak one in. At the 88:13 minute mark, Duke player Spencer Wadsworth fired in a goal to lead the Devils
to a 2-0 victory.

Seth Kulaksekera ’11 had a lot to say about the loss to Duke. “This loss did have some positives. It
shows that Davidson can compete with teams that are ranked and at the top level of the NCAA.”

Davidson did a great job against a ranked Duke team and showed heart by holding them to two goals. On
Saturday, Davidson had a very important match against SoCon opponent College of Charleston to finish the home schedule. A win
could have meant a home field advantage going into the conference tournament. Unfortunately, the Wildcats fell in an all-out brawl,
making their SoCon record 2-4-1. Davidson scored first on Saturday when Alex Caskey ’11 and Charlie Reiter ’10 set up
a corner for Robby Hoak ’08. Hoak sent in a header to put the Wildcats up 1-0. This was Hoak’s
fifth goal of the season and his 19th career goal. At the 42-minute mark, the Cougars tied the game at
1-1 when Kareem Yearwood scored from 12 yards away. Zach Prince and David Munson set this goal up with two
one-touch balls. With 19 minutes left in the half, College of Charleston’s Wes Knight fired a penalty kick in from
12 yards out due to a foul within the 18-yard box. This goal would prove to be the game-winner. Unfortunately,
Davidson’s only shot in the second half was a bit off when Charlie Reiter ’10 missed wide with four minutes
left. Despite the loss, Matt McElroy ’11 registered a career high of four saves.

In a late Tuesday game, the Wildcats ended their season against the #2 Wake Forest with a 5-1 loss. Rob
O’Donnell ’10 scored the lone Wildcat goal. Davidson will play in the SoCon tournament this weekend against UNC Greensboro.

Men’s Soccer (4-13-1, 2-3-1)
10/31 vs. Duke, Lost 0-2
11/3 vs. CoC, Lost 1-2
11/6 at Wake Forest, Lost 1-5
Next up:
11/10 vs. UNC Greensboro

Notes:
Robby Hoak ’08 kicked his team-leading fifth goal in the Wildcat loss to the College of Charleston.

Field Hockey (10-10, 3-3)
NorPac Tournament Results
11/1 vs. Longwood, Won 4-2
11/2 vs. California, Lost 0-5
11/3 vs. Radford, Lost 0-2
Notes:
The Wildcats advanced past the first round of the NorPac tournament for the first time since their first year in
the NorPac, 2000.

Swimming
Women (3-2)
Men (0-4)
Next up:
11/9 at Gardner-Webb
11/16 Davidson College Invitational

Notes:
Lindsey Martin remains undefeated in the 50-meter freestyle with a time of 27.08 versus College of Charleston.
