12 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2007

MSU shuts down Davidson running game, wins 49-21

photo courtesy of Brian Westerholt
Ryan Alexander '08 threw a 67-yard TD pass to Myles Potter '09 on the first play from scrimmage.

By MIKE FRONGELLO
Staff Writer

Davidson was unable to overcome an early deficit as the Morehead State Eagles cruised to a 49-21 victory Saturday afternoon in Richardson Stadium. The loss drops the 'Cats to 1-1 in the Pioneer Football League (PFL) and 3-2 on the season. MSU improved to 4-2 and 2-0 in the conference.

In the early going, it appeared to be the Wildcats' day. Ryan Alexander '08 hooked up with Myles Potter '09 for a 67-yard touchdown pass on the game’s first play from scrimmage. Cody Elder’s '08 extra point sailed through the uprights, and the 'Cats took an early 7-0 lead. However, Davidson would not own the lead for long. The Eagles responded on their first play when MSU quarterback Brian Yost connected with Nick Feldman on a 73-yard touchdown pass to even the score at 7 and negate the 'Cats' early momentum. Feldman finished the afternoon with nine catches for 141 yards including the touchdown grab. He also returned a punt 55 yards for another score.

On the ensuing possession, Eagles’ linebacker Andy Sturzenbecker picked off a throw from Alexander and returned it to Davidson’s one-yard line. Two plays later, running back Rick Cornelius plunged into the end-zone for the touchdown. MSU kicker Mason Webb concluded the first quarter scoring with a late field goal to push the lead to 17-7.

After another Davidson punt to begin the second quarter, the Eagles’ offense went right back to work. Cornelius capped a nine-play, 63-yard drive with his second one-yard touchdown run of the game to extend the Morehead State lead to 24-7. MSU forced Davidson to punt again on its next drive, but Davidson regained possession when linebacker Chris Hampton '08 caught his first career interception to give Davidson the ball on the MSU 30-yard line. The Wildcats capitalized on the turnover with a two-yard touchdown pass from Alexander to Ryan Hubbard '08. Hubbard (seven catches, 63 yards) was one of three Davidson receivers to record at least five catches and a touchdown on the day along with Kirk Konert '09 (six catches, 99 yards) and Potter (five catches, 107 yards).

Morehead State added to its lead just before halftime when Webb converted a short field goal to put the halftime score at 27-14. For the second straight week, the Wildcats entered the half with a double-digit deficit, but unlike last week against Jacksonville, they failed to make up the difference in the second half. The teams exchanged punts to open the third quarter, and the score remained 27-14 until midway through the period when Alexander found Konert on a seven-yard scoring pass to bring the 'Cats within striking distance at 27-21. Alexander had another decent performance, completing 22 of 44 passes for 276 yards and three touchdowns, but he was also intercepted three times, including twice in the second half. His 276 yards passing moved him to second on Davidson’s all-time passing list.

The six-point deficit was as close as the Wildcats would get as the

page 11

Women’s soccer extends win streak to seven games

BY ZACH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Two weeks ago, the U.S. women’s soccer team and the heralded Brianna Scurry gave up four goals in a semifinal loss to Brazil in the 2007 Women’s World Cup. Meanwhile, Davidson and captain Bevin English '08 have not given up that many goals in the last month. In fact, the Wildcats have held their last three opponents scoreless en route to a seven-game winning streak.

Last Thursday, Davidson faced off against long-time rival Furman in Greenville, S.C. Coming into the game, both teams were 2-0 in Southern Conference play. Davidson opened the scoring quickly when Nancy Haskell '08 sent a cornerKick into the six-yard box to Amanda Flink ’11. Flink headed the ball to the far side of the net to put Davidson up 1-0. It was her third goal of the season. Although Davidson only managed two shots on goal in the first half, the team was able to control the ball and keep the Paladins off the scoreboard, preserving the 1-0 advantage. Furman came out strong after the break, firing seven out of its total eight shots. The Paladins put five of those shots on goal, but English proved stalwart, picking up five saves and her fourth shutout of the season, a 1-0 victory. English is now only three shutouts away from breaking the old school record of 18.5 career shutouts set by Allison Noznesky. 

“Everything is finally starting to click both offensively and defensively,” English said. “Our defenders have really been focusing on covering each other so that if one defender gets beaten, a second defender is right there, ready to win the ball.”

With its home winning streak on the line, Davidson played host to non-conference opponent Francis Marion last Sunday.

Player of the Week
Blakely Low ’10
Women’s Soccer
Hometown: San Antonio, Texas

Low led the Wildcats to a victory on Sunday against Francis Marion by netting two goals in the second half. It was her first career multi-goal game. Davidson wasted no time in scoring when at the three-minute mark, Kyrie Bye-Nagel ’10 blocked Francis Marion goalie Jacque Sutphin’s clearing kick and gathered the loose ball for an easy score to put Davidson up 1-0. Five minutes later, the Patriots came close to tying the game when Taylor Jenkins received a cross in the six-yard box and blasted one at the net. English laid fully out and knocked the ball away, keeping the score at 1-0 until the second half.

After the half, Davidson continued to mount up points in a fierce offensive attack. Kristen Koehrn ’08 sent a pass from midfield to a dashing Suzanne Sittko ’10. Sittko drove into the six-yard box with a defender on her heel and knocked a shot to the far post, tallying her first goal of the season and putting Davidson up 2-0. Blakely Low ’10 put the Wildcats ahead for good by scoring two late-game goals and earning the first multi-goal game of her career. Over the course of the last seven games, Davidson has outscored its opponents 20-3.

“The offense has been trying to add variety to our attacking style,” Low said. “Whether it’s playing forward to feet or trying to send through balls into dangerous areas. We have also really worked hard to make corner kicks into a dangerous scoring opportunity every chance we get and it shows, we’ve had several goals from set plays this season.”

With a 3-0 conference record and four out of the last seven conference games at home, the Wildcats hope to continue the winning streak and end the season with a high tournament seeding. This year there will be added incentive to place well as Davidson College will get the opportunity to host the conference tournament on Alumni Field.

“The second half of the season and the tournament will really define the entire year for our team,” Koehrn said. “The key will be to sustain our momentum and keep a SoCon championship in the back of our minds for every game until the playoffs.”

Blakely Low ’10 recorded her first career multi-goal game in Davidson’s 4-0 win over James Madison on Sunday.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Flickerball team sacrifices victory

Last Sunday, 2nd Rich and the combined Little Halls played. Little showed up late for the match and would have had to forfeit. Instead of accepting Little’s forfeit, Rich decided to play. The game was tied throughout, until a Hail Mary pass secured the game for the would-have-been loser, Little.