THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2007

John Woods evaluates College-Town relationship past, present and future

JOHN WOODS
Mayoral Candidate

Thank you for this opportunity to share my views on the College-Town relationship. As an active Davidson citizen, I am committed to strengthening this very important relationship to the benefit of both the College and Town.

What the Relationship Has Been

For many decades, the College and Town have been inseparable. In my memory, Town officials with College ties have included four mayors and dozens of Town Commissioners. The two entities cooperated closely on public services, including electricity, water and sewer, fire and police protection, streets and sidewalks. The College bought much of the fire-fighting equipment. It provided the Village Green as a community facility, and it participated in improving the look of Griffith Street as the entrance to both the College and Town. In addition, the College made an annual contribution in lieu of taxes for all its residential properties in Town.

For decades, the College asked all employees, particularly faculty members, to live in Davidson. There were many close and lasting relationships between townspeople and students. There was the daily trek to the post office for both students and employees, a trek that often continued to the M&M Soda Shop and other downtown shops. Davidson College Presbyterian Church was the center of community-building activities—a facility built through the efforts of President John Cunningham. It is important to note the church faces into the campus, a significant architectural design.

In more recent years, during the tenure of John Kuykendall, the College and Town entered a joint arrangement with the Mecklenburg County Library Board that led to the new public library in Davidson. President Kuykendall served on the Land Plan Task Force, a time-consuming, year-long process that gave birth to our new planning ordinance in 1995. The College began leasing the Village Green and Beaver Dam to the Town. The two entities briefly had a single police department. The efforts on Griffith Street continued, with the College supplying much of the funding for the improvements in the streetscape. The College provided free building lots for several Habitat for Humanity houses. The two entities shared construction equipment and together purchased fire trucks on handshake agreements.

Throughout this history, there was a natural evolution of the relationship. As the Town became more able to manage its affairs, the College slowly took its hand off the shoulder of the Town. The relationship, however, was always cordial and mutually supportive.

What the Relationship Is

Today, the relationship between the College and the Town has changed with the times. There are strong ties at some levels and a need for improved communications as the pace of life for all has accelerated. Indeed, the Town has diversified such that many people living here are not directly related to the College. The relationship is necessarily more formal than the handshake agreements of yesteryear.

Faculty members, including Professors Bill Lawing, Brian Shaw and Shelley Rigger, are active on the Town’s Planning Board. David Holthouser and Leland Park have served diligently on the Town’s Design Review Board. David has also participated in street projects, including encouraging the College to pay most of the cost of the crosswalks on Main and Concord Road. Davidson College Economics major Meredith Judy turned her internship in the Planning Department into a permanent position, then a scholarship and now a Masters Degree in Urban Planning from MIT. College graduate Christi Shi has served ably on the Planning Board and other important Town committees. Sterling Martin has long served as Chair of the Town’s Park and Recreation Board and currently is President of the Davidson Lands Conservancy. A remarkable number of students have actively served as volunteer firefighters. Our current chief, Bo Fitzgerald, is a Davidson College graduate and came up through the ranks as a student. The College donated much of the Ralph Johnson estate property to the Davidson Housing Coalition and asked the Duke Endowment to fund construction of new affordable houses on that land. Many affordable rental units now exist because of that donation. As a local banker, I have had the privilege of assisting this effort with special financing.

On the other hand, the relationship has become more formal, requiring more than a handshake agreement in some cases. More and more faculty live out of Davidson, although the College has directly participated in land development and created a land-lease program that to some extent has enabled affordability to continue. The College has just constructed additional affordable housing intended for staff members. The students no longer use the post office. When combined with the serious effort to make the campus self-sufficient, many students never visit the downtown. And downtown can be seen as unattractive to student shoppers. A decade ago, an active College-Town committee met regularly to discuss items of mutual interest. In general, there has developed an insular feeling between the two. The result has been a missed opportunity for effective communication as the Town has grown and diversified at a rapid pace. The College should have a part in the decisions that will shape the Town for the next century.

What the Relationship Could Be

There must be a close partnership between the Town and the College. The Town recognizes the vital importance of the College to the life of the Town, and the College acknowledges the importance of the Town in recruiting students, faculty and staff; in providing a safe community where students can jog, find solitude, expand their horizons in volunteer services; and in provision of a range of housing prices so that more College employees can live in Davidson.

The future rail service to Charlotte offers a strong possibility for cooperation, particularly in station-area planning, since the College owns a vital strip of land on Depot Street and the old depot property along the rail line. As we move inevitably away from a volunteer fire department toward a paid one, it will be important that the College participate financially. In general, as the area urbanizes and public services become more expensive, the College’s financial involvement is increasingly important.

There needs to be a regular line of communication—perhaps through resurrecting the College-Town committee—so that the two parties can discuss items of mutual concern in an atmosphere of partnership. If elected Mayor, I will suggest and endorse a closer relationship with the student.body, perhaps establishing a formal line of communication between the Mayor and the SGA. In addition, there needs to be a designated College officer as contact for the Town Manager, so that the two can have regular communications. As the College plans its various properties throughout the Town, the Town can play a significant role in assisting the College with developing and implementing those plans. And, the Town can assist the students in making the town a part of their place. President Ross has suggested his primary challenge is deciding how much the College must change in order to remain the same. I positively believe the Town faces a similar challenge in engaging the real-world pressures of development, technology, economics, and social change. Together, the College and the Town can engage these issues and grow stronger in this partnership. Thank you again for the opportunity to share my views on this important relationship.

Town as context of College: College as identity of Town

WILLIAM E. JACKSON, JR.
Mayoral Candidate

It is often said that Davidson can both manage major economic growth and at the same time improve its residents’ quality of life. This campaign tactic is equivalent to saying we can have our cake and eat it, too. But “smart growth” is not so smart.

Colliding Trajectories

The truth is that more major commercial—let alone industrial—developments in our small college town undermine improvements in the quality of life for us all by feeding traffic congestion, pumping air pollution, decreasing safety, increasing noise—the list goes on. Yet, we are in denial, similar to watching the polar ice cap melting but refusing to acknowledge global warming. We are at the point in Davidson where these two trajectories—managing growth and improving the quality of life—collide. Exit 30, the development bomb that dropped on Davidson, is the prime example. And there is no guarantee that the “expanded tax base” will offset the additional infrastructure costs to taxpayers. However, my opponent John Woods is a banker who measures “progress” in terms of more growth. To be a regional economic player (in north Mecklenburg and south Iredell), he continues to champion economic development. Qui bono? To whose benefit? It is difficult to see how transforming Davidson into some sort of economic boom town is consistent with the historical legacy of this special place. In truth, it is a sacrilege.

Ross’s Rule of Thumb

When new president Tom Ross says we need to change Davidson College as little as possible in order to maintain the way it has been, this is a far different message. And I would apply the same standard to the Town. One approach suggests changing the very nature of Davidson, in which town and gown have co-existed since the 19th century. The other approach is to envision a model town like Middlebury or Chapel Hill, where the institutions of higher learning are the central reason for being. I firmly believe that a majority of Davidson’s current voters, young and old, want the latter. It is comparable to Charlotte choosing Austin, Texas, as a model for the future; not Pittsburgh, Atlanta, or Las Vegas.

A Proposal for a College Role in Governance

This “change election” may be the right time to revisit the master land plan for the Town—often honored in the breach—to enable us to get a grip on just where we are in the symbiotic relationship between the college and the town. To that end, I will propose to the Town Board that it allow the College to elect and the student body to choose, respectively, a faculty member and a student to be non-voting ex-officio members of the Board, with consequent representation on the major committees.

East of Main, West of the Tracks; NIMBYs and Academics

As a community, we must constantly fight against the railroad track’s division between “two Davidsons,” or allowing Jetton Street to be the demarcation of a “third Davidson.” One of the most discouraging realities about many citizens is that they are NIMBYs (not in my backyard). The concept of the public good gets lost in accommodating this or that narrow concern over the height of a house, or a strip of sidewalk, or a buffer zone between developments, or—yes—running a new highway around the College campus. The Town Board and staff exploit this fact with a “divide and rule” approach in an effort to prove that government cares—even as the current set of incumbents has given the green light to the development juggernaut.

On a related front, I am amused by the perspective of some liberal academics who wring their hands over Congress (or the state legislature) caving in to lobbyists for special interests, while remaining willfully blind to personal conflicts of interest in which Town Board members refuse to recuse themselves (on cozy consensus 5-0 votes) from situations that would make a legislator blush. After pledging to “remove politics from the process,” a sitting Town Board member up for re-election had himself chosen as the chairman of the board of the fledgling new cable TV system—the purchase of which will increase Davidson’s debt eightfold!

When Students Return as Alums

Students can come to the defense of their alma mater and the small town that provides its context by registering to vote. If the Town Board and Mayoral elections do not throw a roadblock in the way of greedy developers and the “cottage-cheese” businesses that feed off of them, then when you return here as alums through the I-77, Exit 30 “gateway,” it could be barely discernible from Huntersville or Mooresville. God forbid. This college, in this small town, not only provided me with a first-rate liberal arts education. Here I encountered giant role models who have stayed with me through careers in national government and academia. When my wife, Judith, and I first lived here as a couple, I taught the finest group of young men and women I have ever known. Miraculously, I see them in their children enrolled at Davidson today. There is something about a small town, with a college as its defining identity, that has a sense of a special place and nurtures character for the rest of your life. When you wander back for reunions—and you will—far better that you spot on the horizon a church steeple rather than a series of 100-feet-tall mixed-use condo towers!