5 T. + DAVIDSON. J Cat Cups recalled; tens disappointed SEE PAGE 7 | Campaign busted SEE PAGE 7 SEE
PAGE 4 | | Assume that everyone knows how Girl not even pretty on the inside SEE PAGE 8 Base
Rich renamed “Sing Sing” SEE PAGE 2 Basement of library still really depressing SEE PAGE 2 THEYOWL Your Davidsonian Honor
Section Editors: Dan Killian Alex Hoyt Lost, last seen wearing cargo shorts: Drew Gilbert Our benevolent dictator: Pierce Trumbo Constantly
Stressin: Ebolla and Montecarlolah Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be
taken as UBT ORTA | love you more than a fat kid loves cake... UBERTAS o. - September 26, 2007
The Davidsonian COMMUNITY BIKES GATHER DUST: A NEW ERA OF COLLECTIVE TRANSPORTATION IS BORN Based off a proposal by self-labeled
“worldly students” living in the newly renovated Duke Dormitory, Davidson College students are no longer limited to the somewhat archaic
form of transportation known as “the bicycle.” Receiving a Dean Rusk Grant for $12,000, the group argued in Clause 2
of its proposal that there “sadly is not enough communal transportative diversity on campus.” Spokesman Gene Tenace '11 stated, “It
would be wrong to ride a bicycle and we just wanted to make sure that everyone feels at home at
Davidson. I never learned how to ride a bike when I was younger, so the new community bikes equipped with
training wheels were just what I needed to get that extra boost.” Additionally, razor scooters, skateboards, water tricycles, pogo sticks
and those shoes with the wheels in them have been added to the school's collection of forms of community transportation.
The last addition to the new line of transportation vehicles were the affectionately named “communicycles.” Unlike many other modes of
transportation, the community unicycles remain in very good condition except for their occasional use by the Barnum and Bailey trainees
who conduct a joint practice with circus-oriented students in the atrium of the Union once a week. Steve Hassiter and
longtime girlfriend Susie McNutte use the communal water tricycle at the Lake Campus on Saturday. Junior Bilford Wilkins remarked, “Those
guys are pretty weird, and by pretty weird I mean really weird. One time after they were done riding the
communicycles in the atrium, I saw a few of them start juggling human femurs...yeah, I know, weird.” Will Beauford '09
commented on his adoration for one new addition in particular. “I just love when I find a pair of rollie-shoes
outside of Commons and I'm in a hurry to get to class. I just slip 'em on and instantly I
am a fashionable rolling man-machine.” However, a few initial problems have emerged and in certain situations the results have been
somewhat serious. Ecstatic about the new pogo sticks, freshman Watergate Secrets Actually Leaked in Library Antechamber Washington, D.C.—In an attempt
to achieve greater transparency with the public, Pentagon officials have confirmed that the Watergate scandal was actually leaked in the
E.H. Little Library antechamber. A curious architectural fluke in the Little Library’s antechamber actually allows sound to travel perfectly to
the second floor, officials said. They have also admitted that the mysterious information source “Deep Throat” was actually not Deputy
Director of the FBI Mark Feld Sr. but rather a then junior Davidson Economics major Marty Winkerstein now in real
estate. On May 4, 1972, while studying for his econometrics final on the second floor of the library, Marty overheard
a conversation between White House Chief of Staff H.R. Haldemann and presidential advisor John Erlichmann. “I was just crunching numbers
when all of a sudden I hear these guys whispering about wire-tapping, political espionage and some Mexican slush fund,” Winkerstein
said. “At first I made nothing of it, but after those guys broke into the Watergate building a month or
so later, well, I just put two and two together and called my buddies at the Washington Post.” Winkerstein admittedhe
had thought about leaking the secrets to The Davidsonian, but felt that he would receive better incentives and more reliable
witness protection from the Post. What the two Nixon staff members were doing on campus is yet to be disclosed.
Perhaps the most curious aspect of the scandal is that most students have yet to realize this architectural flaw and
are still making today the mistake Haldemann and Erlichmann made 35 years ago. “I couldn’t believe it, but when I
was back on campus last week, just perusing some books in the Stacks section, up drifts this girl’s voice going
on and on about how many times she had cheated on her boyfriend. Really remarkable.”

Hambleton Clemens bounced into Vail Commons during the lunch rush that follows the end of 11:30 classes. As he bounced,
his momentum carried him further than he anticipated, causing one of his shoelaces to become coiled in the pogo spring.
This led to him tumbling in an L-shaped pattern down both sets of stairs while simultaneously creating a devastating human
domino effect. Jack Wiles ‘10 “pogos” across Chambers lawn early Monday morning. When the dust settled, seven were wounded and
Clemens was issued a Code of Responsibility violation.

In a similarly troubling situation, one of the giant water tricycles intended for community use at the Lake Campus was
apparently pedaled back onto the main campus, then taken onto I-77 where they left it on the side of the
road. It was towed within a couple of hours. The student responsible for this series of events wished to remain
anonymous but issued a statement defending his actions: “I was hungry for Wendy's and those big wheels are really tiring
to pedal after a while, so I walked the rest of the way. I also do not have a car
on campus so I really didn't have a choice. Therefore, I firmly believe I should not have to pay for
the towing fees since the appropriate terrain of each community vehicle is not directly specified in the Use of Communal
Transportation agreement.”

The last addition to the new line of transportation vehicles were the affectionately named “communicycles.” Although the transportation vehicles themselves
will not improve the diversity statistics published by the Admissions office, College officials are confident that the new modes of
community transportation will attract a wider range of applicants to the College.

An Interview with Homecoming King Michael XI

Yowl: Your Majesty, your consent to be interviewed by us, mere fiefs, is truly noble.
King: A monarch must never overlook even his lowliest subjects.
Yowl: Of course, my liege. Are you still living in Flowe?
King: Only for another fortnight. We are having a 17th century Hanoverian Schloss imported and reconstructed behind Baker Sports Complex
that should be finished within the year.
Yowl: Will you continue to summer in Mallorca?
King: We will summer at Armor Street.
Yowl: Do you really hold court at Commons?
King: Yes, but what a serfish name for a great hall. I have rid it of peasants and warned them
about hunting and playing “frisbee” on our grounds. I also hold court at “The Court,” though I have thus far
been unable to sire an heir.
Yowl: Are you still planning a crusade to Appalachian State?
King: Perhaps, though I fear what will happen in my absence.
Yowl: Is there an evil regent biding his time?
King: Sadly, yes. Prince Dudlee.
Yowl: Something is rotten in the state of Denmark...
King: What?
Yowl: What are your duties as Homecoming King?
King: Well, aside from hunting stag and playing battleships against my grand vizier, very little. It’s actually sort of a
puppet monarchy. Most of the real power is vested in senators and Deans.
Yowl: When is your coronation?
King: Thursday at 7:00 in DCPC. My roving monsignors should have notified all subjects of that by now.
Yowl: What did you think of the Homecoming game?
King: It was the most fun I’ve had since we butchered those infidels from Wofford. My step-brother...
