8 THE DAVIDSONIAN YE OLDE DAVIDSON Wednesday, February 27, 2008

1960s lay foundation for ‘Cats’ basketball fame

By Nina Mace
Staff Writer

As hard as it is to imagine Davidson without our renowned basketball team, Davidson intercollegiate athletics did not include a
basketball program until 80 years after the college’s founding. In 1908, the first year the team played other schools, the
team was pictured in the yearbook with only five members and two substitutes. The team was coached by a student,
James Rhea, and won their first game 25-9. The following year’s annual would prove somewhat prophetic, as one article wrote
in reference to basketball and two other new sports that “all are destined to make us famous in their lines.”

Davidson entered the Southern Conference in 1936 with Coach Norman Shepard, who led the school to the SoCon Tournament five
times. By 1949, the team was 14 members strong but still combating what the Basketball Roster called, “the almost complete
absence of height and experience.”

In 1960 Charles “Lefty” Driesell became coach, leading Davidson to a 20-win season three years later. In a 1989 letter,
alumnus Ronald Stone recounted a story of his experience on the Davidson team in the ‘60s. He recalls that freshmen
could not play on the varsity team and that their practice uniforms were only washed every other day. “The Frosh
quickly developed a distinctive walk due to chronic cases of jock itch from the wet clothing endured on the second
day of the every other day cleaning schedule,” he said. “It was definitely a relief to get to the Sophomore
status...for more reasons than fans realized.”

Integration, from page 7

Davidson is not the church-related college setting the pace for the South.” As a result, the trustees passed a compromise
motion in 1961 to allow the admission of African, but not African-American, students to Davidson. The Presbyterian Church and the
Board of World Missions recommended the first African students, Benjamin Nzengu and Georges Nzongola-Ntalaja, who arrived on campus in fall
1962 and 1963, respectively. Although Dr. Dan Rhodes led a committee to begin desegregating local businesses, Nzengu later recalled that
“racism was everywhere” and that even on Main Street, he was at times asked to sit separately from his white
friends.

Only after the faculty formally recommended that the College integrate completely did the trustees allow the first African-American students, Wayne
Crumwell and Leslie Brown, to enroll in 1964. Still, the transition was not easy, and President Martin formed a committee
to avoid conflict. Integration was particularly difficult for the new students. “What did I do for Davidson? I graduated from
Davidson. I consider that an accomplishment,” said Crumwell, reflecting on his college years. “Would I opt to go to Davidson
again? Hell, no! Why subject myself to that trauma during that time in one’s life when you have alternatives?”

Although the experience was difficult, Leslie Brown acknowledged that part of his decision to attend Davidson was the “opportunity to
be a pioneer and to be a role model and to break some new ground.”

Although the number of African-American students per class hovered around three in the late 1960s and 10 in the 1970s,
significant changes occurred in Davidson. In 1968 a group of students, faculty, and townspeople boycotted a local barbershop until it
desegregated. The Black Student Coalition (BSC) formed in 1970 “to give black students a sense of escape and to help
raise cultural awareness on campus.” Pressure increased to begin hiring more minorities for faculty and administrative positions.1972 the College hired
Larry Barr as an admission counselor, and the first black tenure-track professor was hired in 1974. Integrating Davidson has been
a long, trying process, one that we are still working to more fully achieve. The College may now be more
ethnically diverse, but students are still challenged by the realities of racism on campus. While researching for this article, I
was extremely touched by the evidence I found of Davidson students, faculty, and townspeople boldly standing up to the pillars
of tradition to support a gentler, more egalitarian society. In this time of change, let us learn from our shameful
history and be the first to stand to embrace a more inclusive Davidson. Much of the historical information found in
this article is from "A Good Faith Effort: Integration at Davidson College, 1958-1964," a 1996 senior thesis by Steven A.
Shames, and "Black Reality at Davidson College," a fall 1996 Davidson Journal article by Issac Bailey.

Davidson was the only school in the South that didn’t close during the Depression.

If two students kiss next to the “Kissing Well” behind Phi Hall, they will eventually marry.

Most co-ed schools still had single-sex dorms, but cutting-edge Davidson put the transfer women of 1973-74 in Little with (gasp!)
those smelly boys. Stephenson, who had spent her freshman year at an all-girls school, says that the only reason her
father didn’t send her back home was by the time he realized boys were right downstairs, he had already hauled
everything up to Third Little. “And where would the women eat? The options besides the dining hall?”

The Davidson physics department performed the first medical use of x-rays at the College. There is an underground passageway between
Dana and Watson. Also, the herpetology lab under Dana houses dozens of snakes.

Driesell led the team to 176 victories, and the team made AP Top 10 for the first time. Driesell’s press
came not just from his victories but also from his personality. Stone recalled a particularly bad practice when Driesell kicked
a basketball through a roof skylight, sending shattered glass all over the gym. In 1969, “Sports Illustrated” ran an article
on Driesell. “Driesell’s players, far more erudite than he, sometimes snicker at [his] grammar and his misuse of words,” the
article said. “But they had better believe him when Lefty Driesell points both index fingers at them like six-guns and
growls, ‘I may be dumb, but I am not stupid.’”

During this time, Davidson played most home games at the Charlotte Coliseum, rather than the significantly smaller Johnston Gym. The
team made it to the NCAA tournament three times, beginning Davidson’s first-class reputation for basketball. Under the next coach, Terry
Holland, Davidson made it to the NCAA tournament twice. The team went to the semifinals in 1969 but then lost
to UNC by two points. Davidson basketball underperformed in the mid-’70s and ’80s, suffering mainly losing seasons. In a response
letter to a negative 1979 “Sports Illustrated” article on recruiting practices, a disgruntled alumnus wrote, “It is clearly evident that
the basketball program will never achieve the success it did in the late 60s.” Clearly, he was wrong. In 1989,
Davidson basketball moved into the new Belk Arena in Baker Sports Complex under the tutelage of new Head Coach Bob
McKillop, and in 12 years McKillop became the winningest Davidson basketball coach, passing Driesell. McKillop has led Davidson to the
NCAA tournament in 1998, 2002, 2006, and 2007. And 2008? We’ll just have to wait and see.

Founded 1837.
