THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES

“Suddenly staring you angrily in the face like a Nascar Week of Champions (or for the truly hardcore, the six Weeks of Champions) seem like a distant memory. What happened to getting your work done two days ahead of time? What happened to afternoon marathons of “Greek” (ABC Family)? Ah yes, good times were had by all.

The three weeks between Thanksgiving and Christmas Breaks seem like hell, which makes it all the more important to have a little fun during our desperate time of need. This past weekend marked the end of week one of Death by Academia, and I was pleasantly surprised to see a good portion of the campus out and about in their finest attire — red and black attire that is. I refer specifically to Warner’s Red and Black Ball, which drew a huge crowd on a relatively heavy work weekend. All the proceeds from the event go to Charlotte-based Metrolina AIDS and the Mwandi Christian Mission Hospital, so the attendees didn’t even have to feel guilty about foregoing work for a night.

I originally planned to skip the ball due to an imminent term paper due date and an equally foreboding physics test, but thanks to the generosity of one Dr. Berkey, I was able to party on for charity (extra points, Dr. Berkey). The highlight of my night might have been a 60ish-year-old woman mouthing “let’s get it on” to her 20-something partner with a pale skin tone. That’s what I keep telling myself.

This year, the timing of the event allowed both the students as well as the school to take a break from pre-holiday stress and enjoy an awesome band (who doesn’t secretly love to hear “Funkytown” played by middle-aged men with mullets?), yummy desserts, and oh-so-classy beer. The event also offered a refreshing change of pace from the often exhausting court parties that have a tendency to look like a good day at the Jersey Shore (refer to the YouTube clip entitled “My New Haircut” for further clarification).

As Davidson students, we sacrifice our sanity all too often to the Death by Academia gods, which is neither healthy nor absolutely necessary. Within this stressful atmosphere, we must find outlets of relief, such as the Red and Black Ball. We must find it within ourselves to annihilate those papers, rock those exams, and break it down in “Funkytown.”

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2007

Letters from abroad: Geneva, a diverse and captivating city

COLEMAN HUBBARD
Guest Columnist

Stepping out of a terminal in a new city on a weekly basis really is as glamorous as it sounds. I have crossed air traffic paths and train tracks all over Europe from London to Istanbul, but my faithful home remains Geneva, Switzerland. Though guidebooks may recommend this city for a day trip, cosmopolitan and eclectic Geneva is my new campus and my new home.

Kent State University facilitated the unique perspective of migrating from London to the European mainland prior to the start of my program. The students traveling with me hailed from various universities and brought perspectives as diverse as the topography of the land. What’s more, Kent State’s program takes advantage of the abundance of renowned international organizations located in Geneva to recruit phenomenal professors. For example, every Monday night I learn about the European Union’s economics with the chief economist of the World Trade Organization, Dr. Patrick Low, who not only teaches but influences the policies discussed. For my European politics class, an East Berlin refugee and former politician representing the Green Party in Germany teaches from personal experience. My international trade class is taught by a professor who received tenure at Harvard by age 29 and is the author of multiple volumes published in numerous languages.

But I don’t reside solely in my cinderblock room studying the fascinating material presented in lectures. I frequently venture into the town, defying the notion that Geneva is simply a layover en route to more enticing vacations. In fact, Geneva has exposed me to the trails of diplomacy, the wealth of financial institutions, and the diversity of a city flanked by several mountain ranges and even more cultural rifts. The skills I have gleaned from these experiences are invaluable.

Inadequate coverage

ALEX HOYT
Yowl Editor

It should be noted that DesPain writes much the same way the Bush administration conducts foreign policy: with a blunt unilateralist’s mindset, employing vague euphemisms to gloss over his mistakes and Code Red intimidation tactics to scare the uncertain into agreeing with him. His incessant, predictable diatribes—against Petraeus, Gore, the Nobel committee, and about anyone with a subscription to the New York Times—scream with the belligerence of a jet fighter plane. Having witnessed three or four of his pre-emptive strikes, I can assure you that Operation Rolling Thunder was conducted with more tact.

What will infuriate a lot of liberal readers is that, in his most recent editorial, he is dead right. So right that I think there must be some behind-the-scenes Cheney figure serving as his Muse. Like so much foreign policy, however, he is doing the right thing for the wrong reasons and in the wrong way. He is right that the three most recent recipients of the Medal of Honor, Paul R. Smith, Jason L. Dunham, and Michael P. Murphy, should have received front-page coverage in the mainstream media.“The New York Times.” He is wrong to appropriate their deaths as a chance to bash the liberal media and further his own conservative agenda. Is his article really a commemoration of these soldiers or just a condemnation of a newspaper? “The sad truth is that the Times does not just ignore the military—it delights in the misdeeds of our soldiers,” DesPain writes, trying to portray the Times as sadists for reporting atrocities like Guantanamo Bay and Abu Ghraib. Is DesPain implying that Abu Ghraib was not an atrocity or that “The New York Times” was being unfair by getting to the bottom of it? I would argue that the journalist who first uncovered Abu Ghraib is defending our freedom and constitutional liberties as much as Murphy, Smith, and Dunham, the difference being that she was writing and they were fighting. “Its silence is disrespectful of a man who sacrificed his life to ensure Americans had the freedom to print a newspaper.” With no disrespect to Murphy or any of the other recipients, his death did nothing to ensure the publication of “The New York Times.” With or without Murphy, the Times will go to press each morning as surely as another American will die this month in Iraq. And that is both the great mistake of DesPain’s logic and equally diverse. Not only can I order McDonald’s in many different time zones and create an art exhibition with my myriad of currencies, but I can also adapt to changing train schedules and ensure arrival home in time for Monday morning classes despite a delayed plane and sprint to the train station. I often travel throughout Europe with Geneva acting as the home base to which I return every Sunday night. Scheduling flexibility is convenient, guaranteeing enough time to attend both a full day of Oktoberfest and still observe the cultural sites of Munich in one amazing weekend. With this mode of travel, endurance is clearly essential. Geneva has also served as a central location for meeting other Davidson classmates under the guise of cultural celebration. Most recently, Oktoberfest proved to be a hotspot for reminiscing with Ian Qua ’09, Brad Bankos ’09, Justin Lee ’09, and Frank Swain ’09 while hoisting liter beers and shouting “Prost!” Planning can never prepare you for the cultural interaction that ensues when the American southerner meets Europe. Just take Matthew Burgin ’09, who probably never imagined that he would learn the intricacies of belly dancing from a Turkish professional in Istanbul! These Davidson international contacts can really pay off and help us southern boys. Livi Tate ’09 lent us a hand by providing a friend from her native Zurich, Switzerland as a tour guide. Her local connections also gave us official VIP status at restaurants and clubs, obviously under European celebrity pseudonyms. Such has been our incredible luck. Perhaps Will Kennedy ’09 best described the environment in his description of Switzerland as “one quaint country,” but it is one that I have come to enjoy to the fullest and can’t wait to share my experiences come January. Coleman Hubbard ’09 is an Economics major from Columbia, S.C. Contact him at cohubbard@davidson.edu. In DesPain’s articles, the real tragedy of these men’s deaths. Yes, when they enlisted in the mid-nineties, they had in their minds Desert Storm ideals of preserving American liberty. But, during the intervening years, years which I would call a second Credibility Gap, the reasons for which they enlisted and the realities for which they would die became perversely disconnected. “Lt. Michael Murphy is a name that should be taught in schools throughout the country,” DesPain writes. Of the 3,445 recipients, the only Medal of Honor winner taught in my school was Charles Lindbergh, and the corollary the textbook didn’t include is that he was a fascist-leaning eugenicist on uneasily good terms with Hermann Göring and a certain Dr. Messerschmitt. Nazi apologism aside, Lindbergh may represent the last of a breed of American war heroes. The past century has seen a decline in the canonization of American war heroes. The only genuine ones we remember from World War II are the Pattons, the collective D-Day platoons, and a few romanticized lives from Pearl Harbor. And any heroes who emerged from the embers of Saigon and the jungles of Cambodia have been replaced in the American memory by Medina, Kurtz, Westmoreland, My Lai, Agent Orange, and heroin use. The Vietnam Memorial commemorates hundreds of thousands of heroes, but it does so with a somber, seemingly endless black marble list that speaks as much to the anonymity of human sacrifice as the Iwo Jima memorial does to the valor of individuals. In Iraq, as in Vietnam, there have been many deserving Medal of Honor recipients and many more lonely heroes without medals or epitaphs. Paul R. Smith, Jason L. Dunham, and Michael P. Murphy should have been in The Times, but they should not be in the textbooks, for the only lessons the deaths of these brave men can teach us are not fit for elementary schools. They are the realities of the individual’s futility in 21st-century warfare, the betrayal of ideals, and the now pointless loss of lives. They are the hard truths that no one wants to dwell upon. Alex Hoyt ’09 is an English major from Salem, VA. Contact him at alhoyt@davidson.edu.