10 THE DAVIDSONIAN YE OLDE DAVIDSON Wednesday, February 27, 2008

A glimpse of Davidson life during times of war

By KATHERINE MILLER
Managing Editor

Davidson College survived the South’s defeat in the Civil War, American involvement in both World Wars, and the political turmoil that erupted on college campuses across the nation during the Vietnam War. Throughout these significant events in our nation’s history, the College remained open but not unaffected.

The Civil War

When the Civil War broke out on April 12th, 1861, no one knew how great of an impact it would have on American history. Before the war, Davidson College boasted the highest endowment of any school south of Princeton, at $234,293. Davidson College President Dr. John Lycan Kirkpatrick took office prior to the war’s outbreak in 1861 and saw the College through the tumultuous years to follow. In fact, under his leadership, Davidson was one of only two schools in the South that remained open from 1861-1865.

Although the social unrest predating the war reportedly met general apathy among the student body, nonetheless political interest, especially in the 1860 Presidential elections, ran high. Apathy turned to patriotic activism, though, as the campus experienced a significant shift in sentiments when Lincoln began to rally armies to prevent Southern secession. At this time, “a complete revolution in feeling and conduct occurred in North Carolina and at the college,” according to student Henry A. Chambers. President Kirkpatrick noticed the changes as well, noting, “The excitement became intense and uncontrollable” when students began to join the Confederate army. In 1861, 87 students were enrolled in the College; these numbers reduced to just 11 come late spring.

During the war years, the majority of the student body was comprised of freshmen, sophomores, and wounded war veterans. In fact, during the 1861-62 school year, not one student was enrolled in the senior class. President Kirkpatrick initiated a preparatory program in 1862 for students too young to fight, designed to increase the critically low enrollment, as well as fill the educational void caused by the closing of many schools in the South. This much younger student body was generally considered to lack the work ethics and discipline typical of Davidson students. Only one student graduated throughout the course of the war. The faculty decreased significantly as well; by the end of the war, only four professors remained.

Once the war ended, Davidson, like the rest of the South, slowly recuperated during Reconstruction. The College’s once high endowment suffered great loss due to investments in Confederate war bonds and southern banks. Meager post-war conditions and disrepair prompted Kirkpatrick to note that the College remained open through “living and laboring with the hope of brighter days.” By 1868, Davidson classes returned to their pre-war size with the enrollment of 121 students. Financially, Davidson made gains during the 1870s.

The Great War

Reported in the April 11, 1917 edition of The Davidsonian in a realistic approach to the ensuing deployment of many students. The article states that, “Some will go to mobilization camps, others to chemical laboratories or to places where their genius bids fair to render the best service to their country.” Davidson’s sense of duty, at least in this article, is apparent: “The principles which are sacred to man and God will be upheld and fought for by the Red and Black spirit as long as those principles exist. Davidson stands for championing the right.”

In response to the war, all Davidson students over the age of 18 were inducted into the Students’ Army Training Corps (SATC) on Oct. 1 of that year. The campus became a military training camp, similar to other campuses across the nation. When the Davidson SATC was demobilized by Dec. 10th, it prompted the College to apply for the Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) chapter that is still on campus today.

World War II

More than 2500 Davidson students and alumni were involved in World War II. Shortly after Pearl Harbor, President Cunningham addressed the student body in the daily 10 a.m. chapel hour, anticipating the beginning of the Davidson men’s involvement in the war. “My message to you today is, ‘Get all you can while you are here.’ Don’t feel compelled to join the military,” Cunningham said. His encouragement for the young men to continue seeking an education, however inspirational, could not defer many current students joining the military with great numbers of alumni. As more and more students joined the cause, Davidson’s campus became increasingly empty. The 1943-44 school year enrolled less than 200 students. Due to these low numbers, Cunningham conceived a plan to keep Davidson open.Similar to what his predecessor Kirkpatrick resorted to during the Civil War, Cunningham convinced the War Department to allow Davidson to host a military training center on campus. During the last two years of WWII, 2500 cadets passed through Davidson from March 1943 to June 1944. These young men received housing in East and West dorms as well as educational and physical training on campus.

Clockwise from top left: Confederate currency; Phi Hall and early society members; WWII soldiers on campus; a Davidson Vietnam War protest.

Leo R. Kubeska was stationed at Davidson College in the Army Corps Training Detachment from March to June 1943. His three-month experience on our campus impressed him with “a special place in [his] heart... [of] both the beautiful campus and friendly townspeople.” Kubeska related the creed the aviation students adopted towards Davidson upon departure: “Sadly glancing backward at Davidson, we see America itself—freedom, Christianity, education, and a wholesome way of life.”

Matt Merrel ’84 collected stories from Davidson WWII veterans in a paperback book entitled “Soldiers and Sentinels: Davidson’s World War II Veterans Speak.” In the book, Davidson men recount numerous occasions of running into each other in the service. Price Gwynn ’47 recounts meeting his old roommate and fraternity brother while teaching at officer candidate school in 1944, and he breached decorum by hugging his new student in front of an appalled classroom. His classmate, George Gunn ’47, describes their eventual graduation after the war. The 200 graduating students represented classes as far back as 1937, and only four actually entered as the class of ’47.

Other veterans relate living on campus during the war. Most students were either under the age of 18 or classified with 4-F or 4-D, thus unable to enlist. Gunn recounts that while Davidson life remained largely the same, the “most sacred traditions were reinstated” only after the war’s end. Elliott H. White ’47 shared the humorous account of Davidson students clashing with the cadets. Every morning at 5:30 a.m., the cadets woke the student body singing as they marched past their dorms. In retaliation, the students planned a midnight serenade for the cadets; the students and cadets almost came to blows, but the stunt had the desired effect: the cadets stopped singing.

The Vietnam War

During the Vietnam War, campuses across the nation held protests and rallies condemning the war. At the time, Davidson was still an all-male student body, comprised of youth who aspired to fill “The Davidson Gentleman” stereotype and who were marked by conservative traditions, mandatory church services, and compulsory ROTC. This environment considerably slowed Davidson’s participation in protest. The traditionally conservative campus slowly evolved as more liberal students and faculty began to fight for change. Davidson moved towards its first true protests and fought for change on campus in the ’60s. First, students rallied for the allowance of alcohol on campus in 1965, then fought for gender and racial rights. The ROTC program, previously mandatory for a two-year period for each student, became optional in 1969. These and other policy changes made a lasting impact on campus life. Davidson adopted a more progressive view, adapting from a considerably conservative campus to the more modern, moderate institution it is today.

Faculty also played crucial roles in Davidson’s activism, as they held sit-ins and lectures. On Oct. 15, 1969, an all-day series of events and teach-ins comprised the Davidson College Vietnam Moratorium program in order to inform students about the war. The Oct. 17 issue of The Davidsonian reported that, after the program, “Davidson knew that there was more interest in ending the war in Vietnam than anyone had suspected.” After the Kent State shootings in 1970, students and professors participated in a peace vigil, President Spencer wrote a condemning statement regarding the event, and black draped caskets and wooden crosses adorned the lawn in front of Belk Dormitory. Many students also participated in a “sit-in” at the ROTC department, which caused a planned drill to be canceled. The war officially ended on April 15, 1975. In an article titled, “Feeling national pain,” the April 17 issue of The Davidsonian refers to the College’s sentiments towards the war: “Today the horror of Vietnam is so clear and it forces complex emotions within some of us.” The article goes on, prophetically claiming, “If we do not face the fact that we made a terrible error we will be doomed to committing similar tragedies.” Given the current war with Iraq, the writers of this article proved all too correct.