SPORTS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Sam DIAMANT, Staff Writer

Former Davidson football place-kicker Brad Smith ’07 has made quite the transition—from the small-town Americana of Davidson, N.C. to the glitz and glamour of Los Angeles, from kicking field goals in front of 6,000 at Richardson Stadium to splitting the uprights in front of the roaring crowds at the 92,000 seat L.A. Coliseum. This season, Smith is on the USC Trojans roster, the #1 team in the BCS National Championship rankings and the overwhelming pick by pundits to compete for a national title.

Smith is not your typical transfer; he graduated from Davidson this past May with a degree in Philosophy. He is currently enrolled as a graduate student in the well-regarded Annenberg School for Communication at USC. Smith is eligible to participate under an NCAA by-law which outlines a one-time transfer exception allowing football players to transfer and play immediately, providing that the player was not previously recruited by the institution and does not receive athletic-related financial aid. Essentially, he is a walk-on with only one year of eligibility as he works towards a graduate degree. Smith joins four others on the USC roster who have already earned bachelor's degrees. Players are increasingly taking advantage of eligibility rules concerning graduate school, red-shirts and the like. For instance, Davidson Men’s soccer midfielder Dave Sartorio ’06 returned to the team last season, completing his final year of eligibility after taking a medical-redshirt for one season due to ACL surgery. At USC, creative scheduling has been common in years past. For example, after completing his degree during his junior year, Heisman-winning quarterback Matt Leinart only took one class—ballroom dancing—during the fall of his final season.

By Omar PICKETT, Staff Writer

Breaking news from The Davidsonian: the MLB is on a witch-hunt. Shame on the media for reporting that Rick Ankiel, the former Cardinal pitcher who resurrected his career as a position player and won the hearts of baseball enthusiasts across America, allegedly bought a year’s supply of Human Growth Hormone (or HGH) back in 2004. First off, it was for treatment prescribed by his medical doctors to pitch as quickly as possible. HGH wasn’t banned by Major League Baseball until 2005, so Ankiel didn’t break any rules. Yet, most importantly, he’s a nice guy who’s been through a lot. It’s not like he’s trying to break the home-run record, right?

As sports fans, it’s obvious we have problems seeing clearly. Heroes are immortalized in our eyes, and we believe they can do no wrong. When you’re a huge Mike Vick fan, who cares about dog fighting? When Michael Jordan degraded his teammates and criticized Chicago Bulls management, he was “making his team better.” When Lou Piniella gets ejected in a baseball game, it is “the spark the Cubs needed to succeed.” Yet these same actions by less likable players draw opposite reactions. When Kobe Bryant fights and degrades his teammates and the LA Lakers management, he’s a cancer to the team. When Rasheed Wallace gets ejected, he’s labeled a thug who ought to be heavily fined. As fans, we tend to defend some and...

Wildcat Roundup

Volleyball (5-4)
3-0 win against NC A&T
3-0 win against Air Force
0-3 loss against UNC-Charlotte
0-2 loss against Colorado College
Next up: 9/15 vs. Lenoir-Rhyne
9/21 vs. Stanford
9/14 vs. UC Irvine
9/15 vs. Cal State Bakersfield
Notes: The outstanding Wildcat freshmen class have combined for 212 kills so far this season.

Football (1-1)
30-33 loss against Wingate
2-3 loss against Gardner-Webb
0-1 loss against Air Force
Next up: 9/29 vs. Jacksonville
9/16 vs. Mercer
9/21 vs. Vanderbilt
Notes: Matt Easton ’08 received PFL Defensive Player of the Week honors, tallying 9 tackles, a forced fumble, a sack and a 25-yard interception return for a TD.

Women’s Soccer (1-3)
2-1 win against Dayton

Men’s Soccer (1-2)

Field Hockey (3-1)
Notes: Bevin English ’08 moved into sole possession of 5th place for Davidson’s all-time career saves record.

Smith ’07 finds new life in Troy
Brad Smith ’07 was an All-American kicker at Davidson.West ’08 made an immediate impact in his return from injury as he scored a goal and received a red card for a bicycle kick to the head of a defender. He will not play in Saturday’s game due to NCAA rules.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2007

In an interview, Smith recounted some humorous anecdotes concerning his first few weeks as a USC Trojan. On one occasion, Smith said, “Director of Football Operations Dennis Slutak and Pete Carroll led the team in rapping the first verse and the chorus of Snoop Dogg’s ‘Drop it Like It’s Hot.’” The rap artist himself makes occasional appearances in the Trojan clubhouse, and the home crowd at the USC Coliseum is generally speckled with Hollywood A-listers (Davidson football’s celebrity crowd is relatively lacking; Steph Curry, former NFL Quarterback and parent Bert Jones, and Fountain Walker have been known to make appearances).

“During a team meeting in pre-season camp, the whole team chanted ‘B. Smith’ and demanded that I dance for them. The performance turned out to be crucial in shaping my identity on the team and Coach McNair now refers to me as ‘Dance Machine,’” Smith continued, with another story of locker-room levity.

The Trojans will battle tough non-conference opponent Nebraska next weekend. Competitive PAC-10 matchups include current Associated Press #8 California (Berkeley), #11 UCLA, and #19 Oregon. Though he’s moved on to a perennial D-1 powerhouse, Smith has not forgotten his Davidson roots.

“I had a fantastic experience at Davidson, and I’m honored that I get to represent Davidson at SC,” said Smith. “I think that it is especially important that I thank all my friends, professors, teammates, coaches, and Katy McNay [Davidson Athletic Department Director of Compliance] for all their help and support.” Conceivably, Davidson’s own “Dance Machine” could be called upon to hit some key field goals down the stretch, as the Trojans continue their quest for the national title.

When will the MLB hypocrisy end?

This brings me to the MLB’s feel-good story of the season, Rick Ankiel, nicknamed “the natural.” Baseball fans, angered by the media’s coverage of Rick Ankiel, flooded the internet to defend him. Many of these same Rick Ankiel fans were the persecutors of Barry Bonds, yet their defense of Rick Ankiel falters every time someone asks: “What about Barry?” Here are some of my favorite excuses (oh, I mean defenses...):

“When Ankiel bought HGH, it wasn’t banned by MLB, so technically he has done nothing wrong.” Yes! Very true, but this nearly exonerates Barry Bonds from wrongdoing. HGH was banned in 2005. With evidence already dubious against Bonds for steroid use, there is certainly no proof that Bonds took steroids or HGH beyond this date.

“A doctor prescribed the HGH for Ankiel, to accelerate recovery from Tommy John surgery.” Again, this is a similar argument that Bonds’ defenders have used. Bonds’ grand jury testimony stated that he received the cream and the clear back in 2003 from his personal trainer because he believed it was flaxseed oil and a rubbing balm for arthritis. If health was an excuse for Rick Ankiel, then it should undoubtedly be used for Bonds.

“50% of the players were probably on it, too.” I don’t know if this is in defense of Bonds or Ankiel. Either way, it probably has some truth to it, but does not exonerate Ankiel. The bottom line is that it will be hard for sports fans to draw the line between Rick Ankiel and Barry Bonds in the steroid era. Ankiel’s steroid use damages the game. But what may be even more damaging is likeability mollifying the use of steroids and performance-enhancing drugs.

Omar Pickett ‘09 is a men’s basketball manager who loves Bojangles, fudgesicles, and shifting government documents.

Cross Country

1-8 loss against Stanford
4-1 win against Longwood

Men: Wake Forest Relays
15. Sam Morris ’08: 23:29
Next: Josh Parkey ’11: 24:34
9/13 vs. California
9/16 at Longwood
18. Greg Marcil ’11: 25:14
Charlie Schmitt ’11: 25:23

Notes: Women: Wake Forest Relays
Finished 3rd Overall
Caroline Sanker ’09: 17:41