WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2007

First Class U.S. POSTAGE
Permit #1
Davidson, NC

VOLUME 99, NUMBER 6

Photo by Ben
Students share a meal after fasting until sundown on Oct. 3. Students raised money for charity during this Muslim Student
Association event.

Wildcat House off to strong start
By Curtis Moore
News Editor

The Davidson College chapter of Habitat for Humanity, in partnership with Our Towns Habitat for Humanity, broke ground on Sept.
15 for a new home funded and constructed by members of the College community. The “Wildcat House,” located at 211
Eden Street in Davidson, is the third home that the College has constructed.

The build will take place primarily on Saturdays and some select weekdays during the fall semester. A group of 12
to 15 students, faculty, and staff will work with volunteers from Habitat on all aspects of home construction. Head of
the Bonner Scholars Kevin Buechler, Gordon Ballingrud ’08, Matt Gregory ’08, Josh Carson ’09, and Sonia Huang rotate leading the
weekly builds and have divided themselves up into different leadership roles: Ballingrud manages the project, Gregory provides amenities, Carson organizes
volunteers, and Huang runs publicity and manages the budget.

Ballingrud started volunteering for Habitat during his freshman year because of the “visceral expression of human compassion inherent in demanding
physical labor.” Ballingrud then worked his way into a leadership role “because it seemed a natural extension of the enjoyment
[he] got out of frequent builds.” Gregory also started working with Habitat his freshman year. After coming back from a
year abroad, he has thoroughly enjoyed his opportunity to be involved in the effort.

Meet the new French professor, page 3
Juan Cole’s Iraq wake-up call, page 4
Men’s soccer gets help, page 5
Returns of the leggings: fall fashion, page 6
Sculpture Garden 101, page 7
Bush fails America’s children, page 8
Yet more objections to DesPain, page 8-9
The history of flickerball, page 10
Catch up with Wildcat sports, page 11

“I can remember when the thought of building another Wildcat House was far from ever actually becoming a reality,” Gregory
said. “It has been amazing to see all of the hard work and effort that the community has put in
to make the project happen.”

In preparation for the build, Davidson students raised over $66,000 throughout the last academic year. Additionally, members of the College
community will almost exclusively construct the house. Appropriately, Union Cafe employee Jania Kirduliene will take up residence once the house
is complete. The combination is a perfect fit since the Wildcat House is within easy walking distance of campus. Huang
thanks the community, saying, “This project would not be possible without your support.”

See Habitat, page 3

Burger King alumnus gives whopper of a lecture
By JORDAN WALL
Staff Writer

John Chidsey ’83, CEO of Burger King, Inc., began his lecture last Wednesday as he lives his life—with a risk.
His opening anecdote recounted days in his college career that were well spent drinking in the 900 Room, and he
extolled the values, especially the Honor Code, that Davidson instilled within him that have made him so successful now. The
Chidsey Lecture is a partof the new Student Leadership Development program funded by Chidsey himself, whose purpose, he said, is
“to build upon students’ natural talent and ability to become effective leaders.” Lazetta Crawford ’09 introduced the speaker, listing his
many employments at lucrative corporations and his continued involvement with the campus through the Board of Trustees. At the lecture,
Chidsey focused on the importance of a life filled with risks rather than one lived safely; he even said that
he would rather “hire someone who took the risk and failed,” over someone who never attempted anything. Chidsey’s long career
testifies to this approach. Chidsey majored in economics and history, and after receiving his MBA and J.D. from Emory he
worked as an investment banker in New York, London, and eastern Europe. Chidsey has excelled in small as well as
large settings—he has been a chief financial officer for an Austrian firm, as well as working at Pepsi Co. Chidsey
said that Davidson prepared him for the myriad types of work he would do; at Pepsi his work included, he
said, “very disparate businesses, tons of fields that didn’t particularly relate to Pepsi.” Many of Chidsey’s colleagues criticized him for
his initial decision to work for Burger King, since he was leaving a larger organization for the job. But, he
said, he always found the

See Burger, page 3

photo courtesy of Monica Jamouneau

Town development through history, part II: changes throughout the 21st century

By ALISSA IREI AND ALISSA CURRAN
Staff Writer and News Editor

This week, we continue our coverage of development and growth in the Town of Davidson, with a look at major
changes between 2000 and 2006. Before 2001, the Town of Davidson’s Land Plan addressed growth management, but it proved too
small in scale and scope effectively to control the Charlotte-Mecklenburg County development boom. Current Town Planner Lauren Blackburn called the
original Land Plan “conceptual,” “vague” and “simple.” According to the other current Town Planning Director Kris Krider, the town’s legal
representation advised it to draft a new planning ordinance to replace the Land Plan. In 2000, developers, including supermarket chain
Harris Teeter, continued to express interest in investing in Davidson. The town approved a Harris Teeter Express for the corners
of Main and Lorimer Streets, where CVS now stands. At the time, the historic Blake House stood on the corner,
which, according to the Davidson Historical Society’s website, was, “the oldest house in the business district” and was on the
Charlotte-Mecklenburg Historic Site Registry. Its removal to make way for the Harris Teeter sparked some backlash in the community. Harris
Teeter eventually backed out of the deal due to concerns about attracting sustainable revenue in a small college town. In
2001, the Davidson Planning Ordinance replaced the Land Plan. The town hired Mark White, a professional town planner from Baltimore,
to lead the effort. The ordinance presented a new firestorm of issues for the town, especially regarding land outside Davidson
but legally within its jurisdiction, over which the town has Extra Territorial Jurisdiction (ETJ). At the time, residents in the
ETJ were not technically citizens of the town and therefore could not vote in town elections.
