Governor Mike Easley encouraged citizens to cut their water consumption in half until the end of the month to combat the drought. According to the “Charlotte Business Journal,” Easley wants to see how the state responds to water rationing, a measure that may soon become necessary. Though rain is expected over the next few days, according to the “Charlotte Observer,” Raleigh has about 90 days of drinking water left, and Durham is down to 6 days. The situation is equally dire across the state. For this reason, we’re pleased to see that the College hasn’t been sitting on its hands. Already, the College has stopped watering all its athletic fields, save the football field (which doesn’t make everyone too happy), and President Ross and the Physical Plant are looking into building water retention ponds. Students seem to be lagging behind in these efforts, however. The Davidsonian offers some obvious, but necessary, advice: as people in pretty much every other country know, showering every day isn’t a necessity if you’re not physically active. Don’t leave the water running while you’re brushing your teeth. When you’re doing dishes, find a big bowl to fill up with water instead of running each dish individually under the faucet. Today’s increasing environmental conscientiousness requires that we all recognize that an environmental crisis, whether drought or global climate change, requires that we take personal ownership over our communal problems.

Editor-in-Chief: Summerlee Walter
Managing Editor: Pierce Trumbo
News Editors: Katie Miller & Laura Van Oudenaren
Perspectives Editors: Jennifer Errington & Mike Wellman
Arts & Living Editors: Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian
Sports Editors: Will Bryan & Patrick McArdle
Photography Editor: Ben Elinor
Business, Advertising, and Circulation Manager: Robbie Squibb, Karen VanderMolen & Halley Brantley

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. Phone: (704) 894-2148. Email: Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Turkey threatens defensive attacks in Iraq

Iraq just got messier. Last week, the Turkish Parliament passed a strongly-worded bill asserting Turkey’s right to attack Kurdish separatists operating within Iraq. The main Kurdish rebel group, the Kurdistan Worker’s Party (PKK), has been sowing violence in eastern Turkey for nearly 30 years and, recently, has found a safe haven in northern Iraq. While much of the country has been in turmoil, the mostly Kurdish north has been relatively peaceful. The region has operated with substantial autonomy since the U.S.-led invasion in 2003, creating its own parliament and military and even issuing passports. Many Kurds consider northern Iraq a part of “Greater Kurdistan,” a de facto state with claims to parts of Turkey, Iraq, Syria, and even Iran. Though the Kurdish government in Iraq rejects the activities of the PKK, it has done nothing to eradicate them. The U.S. has the PKK on its list of Foreign Terrorist Organizations, yet American forces have done nothing to curb separatist aggression. What’s worse, the State Department is investigating claims that North Carolina-based defense contractor Blackwater allowed U.S. weapons to fall into the PKK’s hands. The House Foreign Affairs Committee’s approval of a bill calling the 1915-17 killing of Armenian Turks genocide has fanned Turkey’s anger at the U.S. and may be used as a trigger to invade Iraq. Turkey has every right to defend its territory under threat of attack from terrorist organizations that target its civilians, which the PKK has done. Turkey claims that it would only be doing what Israel did in Lebanon in 2006, an action the U.S. supported.

So this is what happens when another country takes ownership of the Global War on Terror (GWOT). Turkey, once one of America’s staunchest allies in the Middle East, now risks tipping the fragile balance in northern Iraq—and with good cause. In point of fact, the U.S. has not been diligent enough in fighting the war it created. If groups like the PKK are allowed to operate within U.S.-administered territory, then America must be held responsible for its actions. Although the Kurds have been very helpful in Iraq, supporting Iraqi Kurdistan risks a broader security crisis. A group allied with the PKK, the PJAK, has carried out attacks in western Iran, again from bases in northern Iraq. Tehran has accused Washington of tacitly supporting the PJAK in Iran, in effect waging a proxy war. The PJAK’s activities in Iran, coupled with Turkey’s decision, may make Tehran even more intractable in nuclear talks and push the two nations closer to a disastrous war. The U.S. must follow through on President Bush’s promise to “fight the terrorists where they live” and force the PKK, PJAK, and other such groups out of Iraq.other Kurdish separatist groups out of Iraq. The GWOT is a war on all terrorist organizations, even those that do not attack U.S. interests. The House must not, under any circumstances, pass the Armenian genocide bill. American diplomats also need to assure a deeply offended Turkey that it is a valuable ally and friend. This is not a relationship we can afford to lose and the U.S. must do everything it can to stop Kurdish separatism. 

Matt Petit ’08 is a Political Science and Music major from Seminole, FL. Contact him at mapetit@davidson.edu.

Students should strive for eco-friendly lifestyle

The polar ice-caps are melting, Al Gore just won the Nobel Peace Prize and I—in all my pale, awkward glory—wore a sundress during the second week in October. The globe is warming, and I’m scared. In recent years, we’ve been inundated by reports of rising ocean levels, rising temperatures and rising fears of complete world collapse (Yes, I saw “The Day after Tomorrow”...in theaters...for $7.50 plus popcorn and a drink. Yes, I’m slightly ashamed). In the wake of this crazy warm weather, I couldn’t help but wonder what we at Davidson College are doing—or perhaps, not doing—to save the world.

I read an ABC news article recently that described global warming as “so cool...so trendy.” I’d like to think that wearing skinny jeans, leggings or loafers to the court is “trendy.” Global warming should probably be described as possibly “catastrophic” or “earth-destroying.” I’m just throwing that out there. I’d prefer to think of global warming as a present issue that must be dealt with and smote—like Britney Spears’ new hit, “Gimme More” (probably the most-played song at strip clubs across the nation).

As my idea for this article stewed, I began to notice several small environmental issues around campus. Martin Court Apartments and F, home to the majority of the legal drinkers on campus, use one recycling bin to dispose of the vast quantities of Beast and Mad Dawg (and legitimate alcohol, too) consumed. There is also one cardboard recycling receptacle that only accepts certain types of cardboard. From my understanding, you cannot recycle beer cases—probably the most frequently disposed-of cardboard item down the hill. Increasing the number of recycling bins, especially in strategic spots, would make recycling more convenient and therefore more common. The SGA and Physical Plant are currently working together to address this issue.

I also lived here over the summer while every outside light at vacant F remained on. I appreciate that the lights remained lit for safety reasons, but there is a way to concurrently save energy and be safe. A friend of mine proposed installing lights equipped with motion sensors, thereby saving energy while simultaneously scaring possible intruders. My friend got this idea after drunkenly tumbling into a UNC dorm hallway in the middle of the night, where he was promptly sobered up by the newly-triggered hallway lights.

These suggestions, as well as the new eco-house, are both steps in the right direction. But, as highly educated and capable students with potential coming out of our ears, we can always do more. We can always strive to be better than we are—cliché, but true. Colleges like ours across the country are taking action. Middlebury College—one of the most intensely “green” schools in the nation—plans to reduce its carbon emissions by eight percent by 2012. At Harvard, student residential houses compete annually for the “Green Cup”—an award that goes to the house with the greatest energy reductions and increases in recycling. The list truly goes on and on.

I asked Dr. Chris Paradise, Davidson’s resident environmental guru, for suggestions to help Davidson become greener. He proposed simple tasks: turning off lights when not in use, walking to class and turning off our computers at night. These acts seem insignificant but have the potential to have a profound effect on overall energy consumption and gas emissions. Dr. Paradise also informed me that President Ross is considering signing the President’s Climate Commitment—a pledge by over 400 college presidents across the country to help their schools become carbon neutral over the next several years (a school is considered “carbon neutral” if it does not emit greenhouse gases, emissions that contribute to the greenhouse effect). However, this is no simple task. Such a commitment would be challenging, but if 400 colleges across the country can do it, why can’t we?

I wrote this article mostly because I’m more guilty than most of environment neglect. I forget to turn off lights, barely ever turn off my computer and never unplug my phone charger. I also wrote this article to make myself, along with the Davidson community, aware of the enormity of our green potential. When in doubt, just remember the ABC news article. It’s cool—nay, trendy—to be green. For more information on the President’s Climate Commitment, check out www.presidentsclimatecommitment.org.

Ashley Semble ’09 is a History major from Winston-Salem, N.C. Contact her at asemble@davidson.edu.

Correction: Due to a technical error, Martina Mustroph’s article in the Oct. 10 Perspectives section was not titled or credited.