6 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPT 5, 2007

By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

Yiasou Greek Festival promises to be big, fat fun

What do you get when you combine trays of fresh steaming baklava, live zembekiko music, and several old men all
trying to sell you pottery? The answer is Charlotte’s Yiasou Greek Festival, an annual event sponsored by the Holy Trinity
Greek Orthodox Church aimed to celebrate the orthodox religion, Hellenic culture, and history. First conceived in 1977 to bring awareness
to Charlotte, 30 years later this festival has become one of the largest cultural festivals in the Carolinas. Not surprisingly,
the festival has received numerous awards, including “Best International Festival—Charlotte Magazine 2005.”

As is typical (and expected) with any gathering of Greeks, fabulous food is second only to air molecules. And the
menu at the festival supports this theory, offering platters of fresh authentic choices. You have roasted lamb gyros, baked chicken
and fish, Grecian-style pizza, souvlaki sandwiches, spanikopita, tiropita, and pastries — including kataifi and baklava. There is also a wine-tasting
booth and a store that sells Greek delicacies such as dolmades, Kalamata olives, and imported cheeses.

By far the most popular activity is shopping, ala Agora. An open-air market fills the front part of the festival,
where Greeks erect kiosks selling their jewelry, crafts, and clothing. More shops are located inside the main building, each devoted
entirely to crafts such as authentic pottery and woven clothing, maps, local artwork, music, more jewelry, and hundreds of trinkets
from the old country.

As Orpheus lured Eurydice with lyrical music, so we, mere mortals hoping at least to look Greek, cannot help but
gravitate to the infectious beats of their traditional music. (If you caught that reference, you have to be at least
part Greek.) Costumed folk dancers pound the floor in the kolo (the infamous circular dance), while singers strumming their bouzoukis
belt out their favorite love song. Inevitably, you are going to move. In an effort to bring Greek history to
life, several men have consented to nothing less than the full armor of elite Spartan warriors. Whatever you do, refrain
from telling them “This is Sparta!” unless you want to be chased around the festival.

Skip the duds when renting summer movies

By Curis Moore
Staff Writer

Over the summer, Davidson students spend their time volunteering to save the world and working 100 hours a week at
Investment Banks. Or so I’ve heard, anyway. In a noble endeavor to keep students from accomplishing those goals, movie studios
spent their days flooding theaters with such cinematic feats as “Who’s Your Caddy?” and “Bratz: The Movie.” Critics acclaimed these
movies as “unoriginal, unfunny and just plain forgettable” and “too shallow even for its intended audience.” Despite such monstrosities, the
summer season still provided some great movies worth renting this fall.

Best of the Summer

“Sicko,” Michael Moore’s documentary about the American healthcare system, is my vote for the best and most entertaining movie of
the summer. It doesn’t try or even pretend to formulate a way out of the horrendously sick (pardon the pun)
game that the government and the medical community play with American lives. However, “Sicko” is a very entertaining position piece
and a reminder that we could do better. Moore receives a lot of crap from a lot of people, but
this movie proves that our country is far better off with his movies than without them. His movies are biased,
yes, but he raises some of the most important issues (gun control, Iraq, universal healthcare) of our time through entertaining
films that manage to appeal to the masses despite challenging subject matter.

Drama

Going along with more serious subject matters, the best dramas of the season were “Talk to Me” and “Waitress.” “Talk
to Me” stars Don Cheadle and bases itself upon the real-life story of Ralph Waldo “Petey” Greene, Jr., an iconic
radio host during the mid-to-late 60’s in Washington D.C. “Talk to Me” provides Cheadle with material in which he excels
and offers a biopic that provides uplifting inspiration without phoniness, a rarity in Hollywood.“Waitress” stars Keri Russell as an unhappy
waitress in a small-town diner who begins to make drastic changes in her life after discovering that she is pregnant
with her “no-good husband’s baby.” The best way to describe “Waitress” would be as this year’s “Little Miss Sunshine.” Like
“Sunshine,” it is a dramedy, instilling life and laughter into a crabby diner owner, a conflicted waitress, and a fumbling
doctor.

Bruce Willis, in Live Free or Die Hard, generally prefers the first option. “This is Sparta!” since that could be
taken as a challenge. Do look for them, however, at the “Warriors of Greece” Greek Cultural Exhibit, which features bronze
statues, frescos, and a living history presentation. Also of interest is a Byzantine exhibit, located throughout the festival, that gives
insight into Byzantine iconography. For the religious, there is a performance by The Holy Trinity Cathedral Choir of “Hymns of
the Greek Orthodox Church,” at 5:30 p.m. on September 8. The festival opens Thursday, Sept 6, and runs from 11
a.m. to 8 p.m., continues Saturday and Sunday from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m., and ends on Sunday, running from
noon to 8 p.m. Tickets are $2. The festival is located at the Holy Trinity Greek Orthodox Cathedral, 600 East
Blvd. If you feel brave enough to try speaking with the natives, who are usually overjoyed at the effort and
willing to throw in an extra lamb shank, you might try these Greek phrases:

- Yiasou ~ “Hi”
- Kalispera ~ “Good evening”
- Ti kanis? ~ “How are you?”
- Parakalo ~ “Please”
- Poly kala ~ “Very good”
- Efharisto ~ “Thank you”
- Then katalaveno ~ “I don’t understand”
- Auto einai Sparta ~ “This is Sparta.”

Comedy
While many critics would disagree with me in favor of “Knocked Up,” “Death at a Funeral” gets my vote for
best comedy of the summer. The film explores what happens when a divided family is finally forced, at a funeral,
to come to terms with each other’s bad behavior, outrageous faults, and skeletons in the closet. “Funeral” is part farce
(unplanned entrances and exits), part slapstick (misbehavior of corpses and bathroom humor), and part just plain wacky eccentricity. If you
are not a fan of British comedy, though, the film does contain some more American nuances and subtleties to the
humor, then this movie is probably not for you.

Romantic Comedy
Along similar lines, “No Reservations” is my pick for best romantic comedy of the season. The movie stars Catherine Zeta-Jones
as a master chef who lives her life like she runs her kitchen—with a no-nonsense intensity that both captivates and
intimidates everyone around her. Aaron Eckhart (“Thank You for Smoking”) plays the love interest, and Abigail Breslin (“Little Miss Sunshine”)
plays Zeta-Jones’s niece who comes to live with her after her mother dies. It is not exactly revolutionary material, and
most reviewers canned it, but I found the film effective and entertaining. “No Reservations” has more heart than any other
movie this summer (sans “Waitress”). The film is a perfect, mindless date movie for anyone who wants more than pyrotechnics,
testosterone, and computer-generated creatures.

Action
For anyone who is interested in those elements, however, the summer’s best action films would have to be “The Bourne
Ultimatum” and “Live Free or Die Hard.” “Ultimatum” is a terrific finale to the Bourne trilogy. Directed by Paul Greengrass
and starring Matt Damon, it is an action/thriller offering two hours of non-stop excitement. The most impressive aspect of all
the Bourne movies is that they are not only as exciting and visually appealing as other action movies but are
also smart, well-written, and well-acted. “Die Hard” is a much more traditional action movie and one of the best traditional
action movies in recent years. Bruce Willis gives a solid, bravado performance as the hero, the ensemble supports him nicely,
and the script is fairly interesting and well-written. “Ultimatum” is the superior movie, but “Die Hard” is good enough to
deserve mention.
