DAVIDSON COLLEGE

A young girl gets a Gardasil shot. The College Health Center is now offering the new vaccine. See story on page 3.

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2007

Alumni flock back to beloved alma mater

WILLIAM CANFIELD HUDSON AND MONICA JAMOUNEAU
Staff Writer and News Editor

Over the weekend, alumni walked, ran, and stumbled their way around campus, attending the football game and parties at their former fraternities and eating houses. While upperclassmen rejoiced to see their old friends return from the real world to the Davidson bubble, underclassmen were understandably less gregarious with the alums. Who are these people who love Davidson so much that they fly back from all over the country for Homecoming Weekend? What do they do now? What have their Davidson educations done for them? Some alumni graciously answered these questions for The Davidsonian, when our reporter could catch them.

"Now I am a deputy district attorney out in California," Erica Schwartz '02 said, "so I’m a prosecutor. I’m a lawyer; I’m a grown-up." Schwartz is proof that the so-called Davidson mafia network is alive and well, with graduates always willing to help out a fellow Wildcat. "At the end of senior year I contacted a bunch of alumni," she said. "I actually took a year off and worked for a judge while I applied to law school and then went to law school the next year. For me, it was a pretty easy transition. I felt like I needed a year to get things organized and stuff."

Jennifer Ortega '02, from Miami, is now a dentist in...

See Alumni, page 4

Policy Forum invites public discourse

By MONICA JAMOUNEAU
News Editor

An Academic Policy Forum was held last week to discuss issues such as the changed pass/fail option and the concern about possible grade deflation at Davidson. Meikaela Zwieryznski '10 began the meeting with approximately 15 students, although a few more students arrived toward the end of the discussion. Colby Uptergraft '09 and Whitney White '08 also managed the meeting. Zwieryznski, Uptergraft, and White serve as student representatives on the Student Academic and Educational Policy Committee as well as on the Educational Policy Committee of the Faculty.

The forum began with a discussion of core requirements for graduation. Some students believe that for non-majors, the core requirements in mathematics and the sciences, as well as philosophy and religion, are too demanding. The rigor of the classes has deterred some students from taking them, one forum attendee said. "The Mathematics and Science Departments do a good job of...

Down with the Big Ten, page 10
Caroline Sanker sets school record for 5k, page 11

And don’t forget to check out the online edition...

offering non-major classes," Lindsay Kallman '10 said, "but the English Department does not. This often deters students from taking introductory classes in English." The writing course...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The requirement can be completed through almost any department, not only English. There are chemistry, French, and religion “W” courses available to fulfill the core requirement. A discussion on the pass/fail option and the changes to it last year took up much of the meeting. White said that if upperclassmen had the option of the new pass/fail, which is a retroactive choice of three pass/fail classes at the end of a student’s senior year, it would require a huge amount of work by the Registrar’s office. Someone would have to go back and count how many pass/fails each student had taken and then inform every student how many pass/fails he or she had left. “That would be a lot of work,” White said. “Although, I personally don’t think that’s the best argument.” At Johns Hopkins and MIT, freshman year is completely pass/fail, Zwieryznski said at the meeting. “It would lessen the incentive to get good grades,” Kallman said, but added, “It’s Davidson. You still need to work hard. You can’t get away with doing nothing and get a C.” Students also debated the expectations and intentions of professors in certain circumstances. White, for example, asked attendees of the meeting if professors expect a student to read every page of reading assigned to them. “Are professors out of touch [with students]?” White asked. It can be difficult to switch from studying Spanish to English to math, one student said, questioning whether professors understand the challenges. 

See Forum, page 3

---

Louisiana, to decry what is being called a “modern day lynching.”

First Class U.S. Postage PAID Permit #1 Davidson, NC

VOLUME 99, NUMBER 3

Jena 6 and racism at Davidson

By ALISSA CURRAN AND SUMMERLEE WALTER
Staff Writer and Editor-in-Chief

One year ago, a racially-based “prank” sparked a race war in a small Louisiana town, and now the echoes of that event are rippling across the nation, reaching Davidson’s Black Student Coalition in the form of a discussion on Sept. 12. While many choose to turn a blind eye to the racism still present in this country, the story of the “Jena 6” is forcing Americans—including Davidson students—to confront the uncomfortable but critical issue of racism.

In September 2006, an African-American freshman at Jena High School in Jena, La., asked the principal if he was allowed to sit under the “white tree” in front of the school. Unbeknownst to this freshman, his question would be the catalyst for ongoing warfare between African-American and white students. Traditionally, black students at Jena sit in the auditorium, while white students sit under the tree in front of the school. The day after asking his fateful question, the freshman proceeded to sit under the tree among the white students. The next day, students arrived to find three nooses in school colors hanging from the tree. The message could not have been clearer, but when the principal attempted to expel the responsible students, the superintendent intervened, claiming the nooses were a “harmless prank.” The district attorney, however, was not so cavalier when it came to pursuing punishment for six African-American students from the high school who beat a white student after several instances of provocation.

See Jena, page 2

---

Note: The text has been cleaned up for readability while preserving the original meaning and punctuation.