SPE 14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By LAUREN BIGGERS
Assistant Sports Information Director

After registering arguably two of the program’s biggest wins in recent history by taking down SEC powers LSU (3-0) and Vanderbilt (2-1 in overtime) in back-to-back contests in the College of Charleston Tournament, the Wildcat women’s soccer team opened the conference season with wins over Appalachian State and The Citadel. Last week’s Southern Conference Player of the Week, forward Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10, of Hanau, Germany, is a big reason for the team’s recent success. Bye-Nagel scored a pair of goals in Charleston, and after recording a lone assist in her freshman season, scored in three straight contests for the Wildcat women leading to the SoCon schedule in which she has continued her stellar play.

In last Friday’s triumph over Vanderbilt, Bye-Nagel scored five minutes into the second half, putting away a cross from sophomore Lauren Conner, to knot the score at 1-1. The following day, she helped the Cats to a 3-0 shutout of LSU for the program’s first-ever win over the Tigers, one of only 12 teams undefeated to that point and in the midst of a school-record tying 10-game unbeaten streak. Bye-Nagel gathered the ball just across the midfield line, beat three LSU defenders and slipped a shot past Tiger goalie Valerie Vogler for the team’s final goal of the day.

SPORTS

Coming to America: Kyri Bye-Nagel’s journey through D-I soccer

“She initiated contact with us leading up to her senior year,” assistant coach Winnie Corrigan ’01 said. “Unfortunately, I was unable to get to the events she participated in, but I continued to keep in touch because there was something interesting about her. But, the scene in Europe for girls’ soccer is so different from the club system here, so it seemed that only by arriving here and placing herself amongst our team would it become apparent what she’d be able to do for us.”

After receiving “glowing” letters of recommendation from Bye-Nagel’s coaches, the Davidson coaches elected to take a chance on her. “I am reading her resume, full of unbelievable honors across more sports (track, volleyball, gymnastics, basketball) than any domestic soccer star would ever have the chance to participate in,” Corrigan said. “So I thought to myself, this kid could be a true diamond in the rough, and Davidson needs that type of kid!”

Because Corrigan felt Bye-Nagel’s academic background had prepared her for the rigors of Davidson and her athleticism was unquestioned, she felt little risk in offering a spot on the team and a chance to tackle the collegiate game. And though she had never seen the campus, met the coaches or played with any of her teammates, Bye-Nagel accepted Davidson’s offer.

“I remember my mom and I came a couple of days before preseason and looked around,” Bye-Nagel said. “And I was like, this is great! I didn’t want any old buildings; that’s something that I ruled out. I like the brick; it’s nice. I remember coming into Baker and thinking, ‘I love this place. This is so cool. This is Division I. This is what I wanted.’”

“When her parents brought her to campus for preseason last year, she had a ‘deer caught in headlights’ look to her about it all,” Corrigan said. “I think she was awed at the beauty of the campus, for one thing, but the best part was when I took her down to our locker room at the stadium. In it were new cleats, training gear, a backpack, running shoes, and a Bye-Nagel nameplate above her locker — she was stunned! It was like Christmas in August for her.”

While she has certainly become one of the team’s go-to players this season, success for Bye-Nagel was not immediate. “I was lost freshman season,” she said. “I didn’t know what runs to make. I didn’t know what was going on. It seemed like everyone else did, and that was really hard.”

Bye-Nagel worked hard in the offseason and took advantage of individual workouts in the spring to gain a better understanding of the ’Cats offensive schemes. “Spring season helped me out because it was more individual,” she said. “And so this year, I definitely think I improved a lot, and I’m ready.”

Agreeing with her assessment, the coaching staff could not be more pleased with Bye-Nagel’s off-season growth. “Kyri’s overall development from last fall has been unbelievable,” head coach Greg Ashton said. “She arrived here as a sprinter who played soccer but has turned into an extremely fast soccer player who has the ability to beat a defender and then...show great composure when she takes her shot at goal. “You cannot coach speed,” he continued, “And she has plenty of that. She has added strength to her talents in being able to hold off a defender, and she can get herself into dangerous positions and then accelerate past defenders with skill. This improvement is dramatic, and I was thrilled to see her get off to a great start this season.”

Bye-Nagel was selected Southern Conference Player of the Week two weeks ago. After classes concluded in the spring, Bye-Nagel returned home to Germany for the summer, where she continued her upward momentum despite being in an environment not necessarily conducive to doing so. When she returned in the fall for preseason, she placed first in the team’s sprint-endurance test, proving to her teammates and coaches that she came ready to play in 2007.

“Last fall was a lot for her to process, not just in soccer,” Corrigan said. “The fall of freshman year can be overwhelming for anyone—and in Kyri’s case she was separated from her family by the Atlantic Ocean! She came a long way just in the spring, and though I would not have imagined it would translate so well this fall, she deserves all the credit. She complements her physical attributes with a no-limits attitude; for a coach, that is a rare and special combination in an athlete.”

Since arriving at Davidson, Bye-Nagel has successfully acclimated to life both on and off the field. She has been studying sociology and intends to continue to medical school upon graduation. She has gotten involved in other aspects of campus life, joining Connor House and the Dance Ensemble. “I wasn’t part of a dance team in high school, but that’s what we would do,” she said. “We would go out and dance. Here people don’t do that as much, so I kind of missed dancing. I did all of the really ridiculous ones last year, like hip hop, but this spring I want to try something a little different, like salsa or break dancing.”

Despite not knowing any of her teammates beforehand and having her family an ocean away, Bye-Nagel has found a sense of community in the women’s soccer program. “She is a bit of a jokester and her teammates love her,” Corrigan said. “She brings levity to the locker room with her hip-hop dancing, a bold contrast to her soft-spoken outward demeanor. They crack up when Greg calls her a sneaky German (she is not German), so that can be good for a laugh.”

“She is a really interesting person,” Corrigan continued. “Having first of all had the courage at 18 years old to go so far away from her family and jump into something so unknown, just because of this itch to see if she could really play D-1 soccer.” But she did and the coaching staff took a shot. While the story is anything but traditional, it is certainly a good one ... and far from over.

This article was originally published as a feature on www.davidsonwildcats.com. It is reprinted with the permission of the author.

From Football. With the win, the ’Cats move to 3-1 on the season and 1-0 in the PFL. “Any conference win, especially on the road, is big for us. A win over Jacksonville is a great way to start the conference schedule. Winning on the road without playing our best football gives us a lot of confidence for the rest of the season. We feel like we can compete with anyone on our schedule when we play well,” added Alexander. Next week, the team will host Morehead State, who defeated Dayton 42-35 on Saturday, in another crucial PFL match-up at 1 pm in Richardson Stadium. The team will look to continue its victorious run; it has won seven of its last nine dating back to last season.

By SAM DIAMANT
Senior Staff Writer

From Fantasy. I stress betting, because the players are making wagers on the performance of individual players. Performance incentives in contracts should add up to significantly more than a fantasy-prize. Not to mention, in-game competitiveness and general moral decency would likely prevent performance corruption by fantasy interests. In 2005, Redskins receiver Chris Cooley scored three touchdowns in a career-performance against Dallas. He later commented that he was eliminated from the playoffs in his fantasy league. An opposing manager had Cooley on his fantasy squad, so the real-life Cooley effectively defeated himself. Obviously, in Cooley’s case, the fantasy connection did not matter. But as a fan, even the slightest implication that players would alter performance is unsettling.

Returning to the June example, assume that this Sunday the Colts are beating the Buccaneers by 30 points late in the fourth quarter (a likely scenario). Now, assume that the Colts are at the Tampa Bay one yard line, and the Bucs are in a goal-line formation looking to prevent a likely QB-sneak. June lines up in the box, ready to crash the middle. Can we expect him to put forth full effort to keep Peyton out of the end-zone? After all, the outcome of the real-life game has been decided, and June has his bragging rights among ESPN fantasy-experts to think about. Right? I’m not suggesting that June would let Peyton walk into the end-zone. Quite honestly, I don’t think he would. But just the thought that this could be a consideration should be troubling to all fans of the game. NFL players are competitors. They are not going to adjust their play due to unimportant fantasy interests. But when one competition stops in a conceivable Colts/Bucs blowout, when does another—June’s fantasy matchup—begin? The answer isn’t clear. For this reason, the NFL has a duty to regulate fantasy-sports participation within the league.