Staff Editorial

Yippee - Basketball support needs support

“It’s a great day to be a Wildcat!” Many school leaders have recently uttered this semi-corny exclamation. With a new president, a new financial aid plan eliminating student loans, and a stellar men’s basketball program that has broken into the national scene, Davidson is taking great pride in its brand right now.

The Wildcat Red and Black made us all proud when “USA Today” proclaimed that at Davidson, top-notch academics and top-notch athletics go hand-in-hand. The men’s basketball team has given the College a prime opportunity to prove that academics, honor, and exceptional athletic accomplishment can coexist in harmony.

But not everything is so happy down in the Athletic Department. The national attention is pushing the employees who make everything work to their max. As Davidson basketball attracts more fans, the demand for better game operations, brand marketing, media releases, broadcasting technology, and efficiency has pushed the already underfunded department to its limit.

Over the past 10 years, the administration has increased the College’s national appeal by upgrading campus facilities, investing more in the faculty, and eliminating student loans. It’s now time to turn our eyes to athletics. With the descent of the national media on the men’s basketball program, Davidson’s sports information department has given less time to the 20 other varsity sports on campus to ensure that it meets all media demands. With advertisers and television media outlets calling for Wildcat marketing materials, the athletics department marketing office (which doubles as the head of game operations, merchandise, and broadcast technology) has enlisted the help of an already overworked staff to meet the demand. The athletic ticket office, the physical plant support staff, and the coaching staffs of the athletic teams have gone above and beyond their job descriptions to keep up with the rising tide of men’s basketball hoopla. Even students have been negatively affected as every few days they move their cars off-campus to accommodate the burgeoning attendance at the games.

The College must develop a plan to deal with parking, understaffed departments, and the other demands that major college basketball puts on an institution. Funding should go towards marketing Davidson in the sports world so that we may reap the economic benefits of an excellent basketball team. The profit margin of such an investment would more than recoup the initially diverted funds. Already, Stephen Curry jerseys are available online, but we need to keep taking steps like these.

When Appalachian State beat Michigan to start the college football season, the University’s athletic department was swamped with people who wanted a piece of the action. The same happened to George Mason a few years ago. Now the same has happened to Davidson, and we need to capitalize on this moment.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor-in-Chief
Summerlee Walter

Managing Editor
Pierce Trumbo

News Editors
Alissa Curran, Monica Jamouneau & Chris Moore

Perspectives Editors
Katie Miller & Laura Van Oudenaren

Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Errington & Mike Wellman

Yowl Editors
Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian

Sports Editors
Will Bryan & Patrick McArdle

Photography Editor
Ben Elinor

Business, Advertising, and Circulation Managers
Robbie Squibb, Karen VanderMolen & Halley Brantley

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. Email Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian.

Subscriptions

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2007

Faulty rules compromise soldiers’ safety

On June 28, 2005, four Navy SEALs were dropped in the Hindu Kush region of Afghanistan on the disastrous Operation Redwing mission to eliminate a terrorist leader. Two weeks ago I wrote about the heroics of the commander of that mission, Lt. Michael P. Murphy. This week I want to tell the story of the only man who survived that mission—if that is the correct word.

One of his SEAL comrades died in his arms. He suffered through the dying screams of another and was blown out of a hole with the third. The firefight was just the beginning. He then crawled for miles with shattered legs, was tortured, and became violently ill, but he survived. This man is Petty Officer First Class Marcus Luttrell, Navy Cross recipient. His book, “Lone Survivor,” details his SEAL training, Operation Redwing, and its aftermath.

SEALs are the ultimate warriors. Their training ensures that they can snipe, demolish, and save. They are pushed past the max, then further. They run around carrying telephone poles and do pushups in the surf. While the physical challenge is daunting, the mental aspect is downright “Everest.” Thus, be assured that the four SEALs of Operation Redwing (Danny Dietz, Matthew Axelson, Murphy, and Luttrell) were the highest caliber soldiers and men.

What’s terrible is that it is almost certain that none of the SEALs would have died if they had trusted their instincts. Soon after their drop in the Afghan mountains, three goatherds stumbled on their position. The SEALs immediately detained the three and discussed their options. All four soldiers knew that the correct course of action was to kill the goatherds because the risk of releasing them was too high. They would no doubt blow the SEALs’ cover. The Geneva Convention and the U.S. Armed Forces Rules of Engagement prohibited these men’s deaths. Common sense, the success of the mission, and the soldiers’ survival demanded the deaths. The SEALs decided to let the men go because the deaths could result in weeks of hateful coverage by the liberal U.S. media and a murder trial. The SEALs immediately regretted their decision and paid for it with their lives.

Doubt really needs to be cast on certain clauses of the Geneva Convention and the military’s Rules of Engagement when they are actively harming soldiers. These clauses have very little value for the United States in the war on terrorism. Who are they helping? Terrorists, who value themGreatly. Terrorists, of course, do not follow the rules but use them to escape punishment. Captured terrorists cry “torture” and immediately become media darlings. However, when American soldiers are captured, they are beheaded, set on fire, dragged through the streets, or even, in the case of Matthew Axelson, shot in the face from six inches with an AK-47. Thus, I would propose a new series of rules and revisions to the Geneva Convention and Rules of Engagement based on the current war: rules with less Congressional influence and more military influence. It is easy to sit in the Capitol and demand that our soldiers hold fire until they have been shot at or obtain proof of identity and intentions. Terrorists do everything they can to hide their identity. They do not wear uniforms, and they hide in schools, behind women and children, and in hospitals. The United States’ current guidelines do not work in this war. New rules need to be established that put our soldiers' safety first, not the safety of terrorists. 

Bobby DesPain ’11 is undeclared. He is from St. Louis, MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.

---

Davidson Town Planning Sustains Old, Welcomes New

Kris Krider
Planning Director, Town of Davidson

Planning in Davidson is based around the town’s mission statement, which embraces sustainability, diversity, and a pedestrian-friendly community. In April 2003, the Davidson Town Board adopted the Circulation and Connectivity Plan. This document was the product of an intensive transportation planning exercise completed by the Circulation Stakeholders Committee, an appointed task force including representatives from town staff, downtown merchants, industry, North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT), and Davidson College. A Davidson grad, Meredith Judy, was the project manager. The overarching concept was about being connected, getting around, and mobility for all ages and all types—walking, biking, driving. It was urban design and land use planning influenced by circulation patterns. Traffic calming was essential because vehicles were going to use multiple means of getting to the same place through a network of streets. Connectivity is good at dispersing traffic but has a reputation for promoting “cut-thru’s.” That argument was vetted in the draft planning exercise, and the committee agreed that the negative amount of cut-through traffic was minimal compared to the alternative, a four-lane highway through the middle of town. But the act of putting the plan together was also about people; who we are, how we interact. It was about facilitating community-mindedness, whether through chance encounters at the post office, walking to school, or walking to a Davidson College basketball game. Connectivity builds community.

Today, such efforts are being manifested through diverse efforts such as DavidsonWalks, the Southeast Greenway, building the roundabouts on Griffith Street, and a new connection to the Bailey Road Middle School. While the Circulation Plan considered primarily streets, sidewalks, and greenways, its inspiration lay in our attempt to remain connected as a people while the town grew. We felt it was critical for a kid to be able to walk to his friend’s house instead of asking for a ride. We felt that dispersing traffic through a variety of neighborhood street connections was superior to widening Main Street to four lanes, which NCDOT was determined to do. We believed smart growth was about compact, mixed-use development, with parking in the rear and buildings on the street, inviting pedestrians and slowing down the traffic.

Why is connectivity so important? It’s in our blood. What distinguishes Davidson from most towns in America is the fact that we are a very involved and opinionated community. The recent election posted a greater than 50% turnout in a non-presidential election year, which is almost unheard of. Our volunteerism is strong, our sense of place is powerful, and our identity, memorable. The role of the Planning and Urban Design Department has been to champion connectivity. How do we do it? Through charrettes, regional transportation planning initiatives like the commuter rail, and our planning ordinance. As stated in the town planning ordinance, “Old neighborhoods must be interconnected via new streets and greenways, and new neighborhoods must connect to adjacent neighborhoods and undeveloped property.”

For example, in subdivision design, we require the developer to design and build street connections to all adjoining property owners. We require a variety of house lot sizes so that no one subdivision becomes a repetition and redundant representation of one architectural style (i.e., sprawl). In the rural area, when someone wants to develop, they must set aside nearly 50% of the land to remain undeveloped forever. Ideally, this land is in a conservation easement like the one the Davidson Lands Conservancy has obtained for the Abersham neighborhood off Grey and Shear Roads. In most cases, it is common open space along creeks and hillsides. And in town, the plan is to promote mixed-use infill development that both complements our history and also encourages transit-oriented development with higher densities. Like a seamstress, our challenge is to knit old and new together.

What is now named Harbour Place was the first development at what is frequently called Exit 30. Its complex plan represents the manifestation of our Planning Ordinance with regard to new development. The plan requires 50% open space consisting of a nine-acre nature preserve, a seven-acre pond and landscaped park, soccer fields, and a gymnasium. The Harbour Place master plan has a rich mixture of uses: a hotel, restaurants, class A office space, retail shops, townhomes, and condominiums. This is just one of about 10 other mixed-use projects such as the Harris Teeter. The fiscal magnitude of this development is great. The financial benefit has been estimated at $3.5 million in additional taxes annually for the Town’s General Fund, which will then be used to continue quality of life improvements such as greenways and sidewalks, open space acquisition, and public art. Exit 30 is economic development in action.

These are just a few examples of the many ways efforts to improve connectivity, both at a physical and personal level, have created new roles. Through good planning, design ordinances, and growth management, the town is the master developer. Today, the outcome of this collaborative hard work is reflected in a series of connected streets and new development intermingled with old, taking shape all around us. This is what planning in Davidson is all about.