DAVIDSON COLLEGE

@ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST”

COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2007

College mourns influential alumnus

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Editor-in-Chief

We all recognize the name John Montgomery Belk. It graces the doors leading into the arena where we watch our
basketball, volleyball, and wrestling teams compete, and it belongs to the scholarship that he endowed. Few of us, though, know
much about the man John Belk ’43, who died on Aug. 17.

During his time at Davidson, Belk started four years on the varsity basketball team and served as a team captain.
He earned the nickname “Long John” and helped the team to its first-ever Southern Conference tournament win against NC State
in 1943. Belk also took an active role in student government and the Panhellenic Council and was a member of
the Eumenean Literary Society and Scabbard and Blade.

The economics degree with which he graduated served Belk well when he returned to the family business — Belk department
stores, founded by his father William Henry Belk — in 1952 after spending three years as a lieutenant in the
U.S. Army Infantry during World War II and serving as an officer of the United Nations Civil Assistance Commission.

As Chairman of the Board, he grew Belk department stores into one of the nation’s largest, most profitable retail outlets.

In addition to chairing a prominent business, Belk served his community as mayor of Charlotte for four terms from 1969
until 1977. During his tenure, Belk expanded the Charlotte/Douglas International Airport into the hub for what is now USAirways and
played a key role in bringing pro-

See Belk, page 2

John Belk was the epitome of a leader as a student, businessperson, and civic figure.

On the inside...

News

New student laundry, page 2
Davidson in Peru amidst earthquake, page 3

Perspectives

A short meditation on gardens, page 5
Funny sidebar items, page 5

Arts

Tom Ross speaks (um, writes), page 6
Advice for freshmen and upperclassmen, pages 6-7

Sports

Greek culture triumphs again, page 8
Procrastinate!: the siren song of wireless, page 9

Why small schools give us hope, page 10
Meet the new Sports Information guy, page 10

First Class
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC

VOLUME 99, NUMBER 1

New president Tom Ross addressed the need for continuing dialogue concerning diversity at this year’s Opening Convocation.

Opening Convocation tackles diversity in students and faculty

By MONICA JAMOUNEAU
News Editor

Last night, speakers at the 2007 Student Convocation unified two issues that have been increasingly at the forefront of minds
at Davidson College: how our new president Tom Ross ’72 will serve the college, and how the college will respond
to the need for greater diversity on campus.

Convocation, which took place in Belk Arena to an audience of over 500 people, was Ross’ first opportunity to speak
to the student body.

By WILLIAM CANFIELD HUDSON AND MONICA JAMOUNEAU
Senior Staff Writer and News Co-Editor

When nations get presidents, they also get first ladies. The same thing happens at college campuses, but too often we
focus all our attention on the person in power rather than the woman that stands next to him.

In this interview, one Davidsonian reporter attempts to find the true Susan Ross, not just as the wife of our
new president Tom Ross, but also as an important and influential member of the Davidson community.

The Davidsonian: If you could take any course at Davidson, what

See Ross, page 4

Before Convocation, Ross said that he was eager to speak to the students.

He had previously given a speech during freshman orientation.

“I’ve made hundreds of speeches—thousands,” he said, but when it came time to speak to the new students, he “felt
so much responsibility to do it right.”

At Convocation, Ross displayed his dexterity at the podium, asking his students to examine themselves and their commitment to promoting
diversity of ideas and people, not only at Davidson but in all of their experiences.

“I’ve lived a career of law, judiciary, and philanthropy,” he said of his non-traditional path to the president’s position. “The
question I ask you is can this community we call Davidson be strong and caring and even more wonderful than
it is?”

Ross thinks that it can.

Vice President for Student Life and Dean of Students Tom Shandley, who introduced Ross, believes that the new president has

See Diversity, page 2

An afternoon with Mrs. Ross

President Ross and his wife, Susan, are settling into life at Davidson.
