iy, EZ THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2007 10

“Accordingly, they make stupid decisions by overpaying millions for washed-up baseball players who can’t deliver during the season. Consequently, this
is also the time when my mind gets away from baseball until spring training. This year, however, the MLB’s offseason
looks exciting because I want to see where Alex Rodriguez, baseball's best player, will end up. He has shown that
he cannot make the big hit in clutch situations. For a guy who often forgets how to swing the bat
when the position player in the game today. At the age of 32, he already has over 2,200 hits, 1500
RBI, and 518 home runs. He is a model of consistency, hitting 35 home runs in 10 straight seasons. He’s
also had over 100 stolen bases over the last five years. He has a lifetime .306 batting average. He has
two gold gloves along with his two (soon to be three) MVPs. At his career’s end, not only will he
probably be the all-time home run king, but he will be the most prolific offensive player to ever play the
game of baseball. But $350 million? I’m sorry, MLB purists, but this is bad for baseball. The Alex Rodriguez free
agency carousel is just a microcosm of what is happening all around the league. Because no hard salary cap exists,
large market teams are giving overrated players outrageous contracts. $121 million for Barry Zito over seven years? $100 million a
year for Ichiro? $28 million to Roger Clemens for FOUR MONTHS! A few years ago, when the Yankees were attempting
to build an All-Star team in the Bronx, debate began over whether or not Yankees overspending hurt the competitive balance
of baseball. Opponents pointed to the fact that many small market teams, like the Florida Marlins, could have success making
the playoffs and even winning a World Series. But when it came time to measure steady success, you'd be hard-pressed
to find small market teams with constant success. Why? Because great players are being bought up with insanely lucrative deals
that small market teams have no chance to match. Until the MLB addresses this issue, small market teams will rise
and fall as quickly as Carolina Panthers expectations.

Volleyball (12-19, 7-11)
11/9 at App. State, Won 3-2
11/11 vs. Georgia Southern, Won 3-1
Next up:
11/16 at App. State
Notes: The volleyball team enters the SoCon Tournament on a two-game winning streak.

Men’s B-ball
11/9 vs. Emory, Won 120-56
11/14 vs. UNC Chapel Hill
11/21 at Western Michigan
11/24 at North Carolina Central
Stephen Curry ’10 scored a game-high 27 points in the 120-56 rout against Emory.

By SAM DIAMANT
Senior Staff Writer

The women’s basketball team faced off against strong ACC opponent Georgia Tech in the season opener for both squads, Friday
in Atlanta. The Wildcats lost the contest 69-50, after hanging with Tech through much of the first half. A 12-4
Davidson run at the end of the first half allowed the ’Cats to close the deficit to nine at the
break. But Davidson went cold from the floor in the second period, and the Yellow Jackets were able to build
a secure lead. Tech opened the half with a 15-4 run of its own, and Davidson could not counter. The
tale of two halves is statistically staggering. While the Wildcats shot 55 percent in the first half, they only shot
25 percent in the second stanza due to a much stronger defensive performance by the Yellow Jackets.

“We were five for 20 and it is so mentally draining to work hard on defense and continue to miss
shots,” Coach Annette Watts said of the poor second-half shooting performance. On a positive note, the team adjusted well to
Georgia Tech’s full-court press, committing fewer turnovers after the intermission. They committed 31 total, with 18 turnovers occurring in the
first half. However, the young Davidson squad still needs to work on taking better care of the basketball. “Unforced turnovers
are a major concern at the present and we are working daily to improve in that area,” Watts said.

Georgia Tech went 21-12 in 2006-2007 and returned four starters. Davidson, between unforced errors and poor second-half shooting, could not
hang with the talented Yellow Jackets. “We will not play many teams with the speed and athleticism that Tech possessed,”
Watts said. Forward Julia Paquette ’10 led Davidson scorers with 15 points, shooting 6-8 from the floor and 3-3 from
the line in only her second career start for the Wildcats. “Julia Paquette has played well from day one this
season,” Watts noted. “She worked hard this summer and she understands this team needs her to be successful.” Alex Thompson
’10 made her first collegiate start at point guard for the Wildcats, netting two three-pointers, her only attempts from the
field, while adding four assists and two steals. Coming off the bench in her first NCAA contest, Kelsey Cary provided
a lift for the ’Cats on offense scoring 12 and adding seven boards. Watts noted that all scoring and rebounding
leaders were fresh.men and sophomores. In this way, the 2007-2008 Wildcats appear to be living up to their billing as
a young but talented team. The team will compete in its first tournament of the season this weekend, the four-team
Carolina First Classic at UNC-Asheville. Davidson plays Asheville on Friday night, then either the championship game or a consolation match
on Saturday. Georgia State and Gardner Webb are the two other teams competing in the tournament. UNC-Asheville received its first
ever bid to the NCAA Tournament last year, after winning the Big South conference tournament. “They are always tough and
playing them at their place is a challenge for any team,” Watts said. “To keep playing hard, against all odds,
is something this team is learning how to do.” -Coach Annette Watts

Looking forward, Davidson can take some positives away from the Georgia Tech loss. Tough non-conference match-ups against major programs should
help the young ’Cats progress and quickly identify strengths and weaknesses. Overcoming the team’s lack of experience seems a main
obstacle. “To keep playing hard, against all odds, is something this team is learning how to do,” Watts said, “When
the SoCon season rolls around, games such as this will certainly help us.”

Playoff runs end for soccer squads
By WILL BRYAN AND PATRICK MCARDLE
Sports Editors

Sometimes fairy tale endings end up being just that, fairy tales. The women’s soccer team’s remarkable 2007 campaign came to
an abrupt end on Friday night when Furman’s Rachel Fry headed in a loose ball from the penalty box in
the second overtime of the Southern Conference Tournament semifinals. Davidson had defeated Furman by a score of 1-0 earlier in
the conference season, but the Wildcats were unable to get on the scoreboard and lost 1-0 to the eventual champions
of the SoCon Tournament.

The ’Cats certainly had their chances to put the match away in regulation. Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10 had several excellent opportunities
to score but she missed on all counts. The first two came in the second half when her header off
a Nancy Haskell ’08 corner kick went wide. Just four minutes later, Bye-Nagel had another excellent opportunity, but her shot
on goal went high and deflected off the crossbar. The best and final Davidson opportunity came in the second overtime
when Bye-Nagel found herself in a one-on-one situation with the Furman goalie. Bye-Nagel, who was voted All-SoCon first team earlier
in the week, struck her shot directly at the Paladin keeper, Briana da Mota, who was able to make the
game-saving stop. Mota made 10 saves to stifle the Wildcat offense.

The Paladins' game-winning goal came as time ticked down in the second overtime and the game seemed to be heading
to penalty kicks. Furman kicked a cross into the box with 10 seconds remaining and both teams scrummed for the
loose ball in front of the goal. As the ball popped up in the air, Fry was able to connect
with her head and send it to the corner of the goal with a mere 2.2 seconds remaining on the
clock. Fry was named Most Outstanding Player in the Tournament after leading Furman over UNC Greensboro in the tournament championship.

The game was the last contest for seniors Haskell, Bevin English ’08, and Kristen Koehrn ’08. Haskell had been honored
with All-SoCon first team honors, while English and Suzanne Sittko ’10 were selected to the second team. English set a
school single-season and personal-best record with 10 shutouts this year. In addition, English set career bests in wins with 13,
saves with 86, minutes played with 1,766:59, and goals allowed with 16. The senior trio of Haskell, English, and Koehrn
finish their careers as the all-time winningest class in women’s soccer history with an overall record of 51-26-6.

Similarly, the men’s soccer team ended its season with a 1-0 loss to UNCG on Saturday, ending a tough season
where the team finished with a record of 4-14-1. Thomas Campbell of UNCG, who recorded a hat-trick in the last
meeting between the two teams, scored the game’s only goal at the 24-minute mark. Although the seniors will be moving
on, next season begins now for both teams, and hopes are high.

Cross Country
Women’s B-ball
Swimming

Women (3-3)
Men (1-4)

33:11.50 - Tom Divinnie
33:27.65 - Alex Hoyt
11/9 at GA Tech, Loss 50-69
33:28.10 - Thad Sieracki
Next up:
33:32.75 - Sam Morris
Next up:
11/16 at UNC Asheville
11/17 at Carolina Classic
11/24 at Charlotte

Women’s
21:20.90 - Caroline Sanker
22:15.65 - Megal Atias
22:31.60 - Annie O'Donnell

Notes:
Julia Paquette ’10 led Davidson with 15 points in her second career start as a Wildcat in the loss to
Georgia Tech on Friday.

11/16 Davidson Invitational
11/29 at Kenyon College

Notes:
Merritt Peele ’09 won 100, 200, and 1000 freestyle events to lead the Wildcat men to their first team victory
of the season.
