5 “vee i Halo 3 player kills aliens, cyborgs, alone SEE PAGE 2 Hummer found in Co-op parking lot SEE PAGE 7 weeks of Vagt SEE PAGE 2 THE YOWL Your Davidsonian Honor Section Editors: Alex Hoyt Dan Killian Soon to make his debut: Flav An aggressive writer: Stephen “Burgundy” Lavender Our man in Havana: Lawrence Kluttz Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word. LEAVE BRITNEY ALONE ISSUE Wednesday, October 3, 2007, The Davidsonian ODYSSEY PROGRAM TO BE REPLACED BY MORE VIOLENT ILIAD PROGRAM Incoming freshmen will no longer have the chance to meet their future classmates on service or backcountry trips, according to new Davidson Outdoors director Bob Agammemnon. Instead, all freshmen will participate in a summer-long siege of Troy, NC, a small coal community near Reidsville. “We got together and figured, hell, what’s the point of having an Odyssey without first having an Iliad?” Agammemnon said. Whereas the old freshman orientation program focused on service, the new Iliad program will focus on disservice. Students will spend three months wreaking absolute havoc on a low-income community that, ironically enough, incoming freshmen classes of the past have spent their summers revitalizing. Senior Davidson Outdoors leader Even Bergman ‘07 isn't really concerned about getting to know his freshmen. “The old orientation program was good for fostering friendships, but I think the Iliad program will forge them,” Senior Davidson Outdoors leader Even Bergman ’07 said. “When you see a future classmate take a flaming arrow to the chest, you really value your spot at Davidson that much more.” Whereas the old Odyssey program was supposed to provide a “unique, challenging, fun transition to Davidson life,” the new Iliad program has been designed “to instill freshmen with the fear of the gods,” according to Agammemnon. Students will spend three months building a giant wooden wildcat, iPOD EARBUDS NOT ACTUALLY HOOKED UP TO ANYTHING In an embarrassing turn of events Monday night, Marty Hobstein ’09, went from being a “golden god to noob status” in a matter of only seconds. Noticing a group of female friends gathered outside the Union Café, Hobstein bobbed his head and pretended to be “jamming out” to music on the apparent iPod in his right pants pocket. His head pumps were frequent but nonchalant in an attempt to appear laid back while simultaneously having the determination and focus of Eminem in “8 Mile.” Reports from onlookers indicated that his walk-up was fairly official-looking, and it appeared that he was listening to some old-school rap with a slow-moving bass line. “I was imagining some beats from Public Enemy with a vocal touch of Outkast pumping through my veins at that moment. But the truth is that excessive testosterone and a fair amount of pixie-stick sugar were the only things flowing through me,” Hobstein admitted. When Hobstein took his hand out of his pocket to arbitrarily wave it side to side in a rapper-esque manner, the earbud plug that wasn’t hooked up to an iPod fell out, instantly exposing him as a fraud. Freshman observer Erika Stevens commented, “He looked like a complete loser. I mean, who doesn’t have a working iPod to go with their cute white earbuds? I’m never going to talk to him at the Court.” When questioned about his decision to fake the possession of an iPod, Hobstein remarked on longing for the “in-look” other students had with their white earbuds. According to a new study by the Sociology Department, Hobstein is not alone in his quest to fit in through this new fashionably accepted technique. Recent surveys indicate that eight out of 10 wearers of the popular white iPod earbuds actuallyhave little to no interest in music at all. Sociologist Dr. Ruth Evans offered her opinion on the situation. “It’s just like those Tamagotchis or Giga Pets that were a fad back in the day. In the moment, if you’re insecure it makes perfect sense to talk to and feed an electronic pet. But the reality is this only reflects one’s lack of purpose and constant self-doubt. So why wouldn’t you put things into your ears so people will think that you’re cool?”

“Students will spend three months building a giant wooden wildcat, rappelling from that wildcat, and pouring scalding pots of tar from high ramparts on innocent townspeople.” When confronted about the dubious morality of marauding an impoverished hamlet, Agamemnon replied, “The gods have been slighted, and only through great sacrifice can we atone for that slight.” Agamemnon has not ruled out the possibility of reinstituting the Odyssey program with a few changes several years in the future. “For a more realistic experience, we’ll obviously have to fight this ‘war’ before we can go on an Odyssey back home to our wives and families. Then hopefully we can slaughter the bastards who have taken our wives and homes while we’ve been gone.” “We got together and figured, hell, what’s the point of having an Odyssey without first having an Iliad?” Students will besiege the derelict Troy, NC as part of Agamemnon’s new, innovative Iliad orientation program.

UNION PIANO THREAT ISSUED

In a whimsical pass by the Union piano yesterday, the following posting was discovered...

Dear Union Pianist,

If you are under the age of seven, please disregard the following message. Children under the age of seven tend to be cute, and, at the risk of offending the three in the world who aren't, we’d like to exempt you all from the obnoxious reality of taking responsibility for your inherently worthless contribution to human society. It's not your fault; you’re seven. Your lack of experience provides you with the God-given right to create utterly insignificant works of art over which adults are required to ooh and ahh. You trace your hand at Thanksgiving and Daddy has to give you a high five in front of Mommy if he plans on getting laid within the next millennium. I mean, we kind of have to pretend, don't we? No self-respecting parent would ever greet his or her bushy-eyed six-year-old son's return from art class with the comment “Are you serious, Timmy? You call that a macaroni necklace? Kill yourself...comma die.”

But in all sincerity, Timmy, through a most unfortunate turn of events, you're not seven. The sad truth is that you’ve reached the illustrious age of 20, and yet given the heart-warming, five-dollar-bill-taping Davidson society in which you’ve been raised, you still expect everyone to laud your appalling piano work as “inspirational.” This is the part at which a regular self-indulgent student journalist who just received the word ‘plethora’ in his dictionary dot com word of the day email would write, “I'm talking, of course, about those absurdly obnoxious students who insist on playing the Union piano at all hours of the day.” However, seeing as how I'm a real human, I'm gonna talk straight to you, Timmy. I believe I speak from the heart when I say, shut the hell up. You are not good at the piano, and nobody likes you. Wow, you know “Heart and Soul?” That's awesome! So does every other limb-possessing two-year-old. So here's an idea. Next time you want to give us all your picture-perfect rendering of “Mary Had a Little Lamb,” use the time you would have spent practicing to complete your request to transfer application. In the meantime, go do a sudoku or something...you've earned it, Sport.