| PERSPECTIVES: - Peer pressure

OATES: ELISE AMBP AIS ILI ep SUN A ase al RB =

Davidson, you made us proud on Wednesday when 46 of you boarded a bus, endured the 12-hour ride to Jena,
Louisiana, marched in 91-degree heat and joined people from across the country to stand up for what you believe. Over
the past two weeks, we’ve come down hard on the student body, but you and your supporters on campus reminded
us that Davidson students are impressive when they decide to fight for a cause. (See “Journey to Jena” on the
front page.) SGA organized the bus trip down to Jena, and the Union kept those of us who remained behind
updated with a screen in the atrium showing CNN coverage of the event. All around, it was an effort of
which the College should be proud. Now that you’ve returned, though, what do you plan to do to maintain that
spirit of social activism? More importantly, what do the rest of you—those who wanted to but could not attend the
protest, those who generally support equality and, most importantly, those who are apathetic—intend to do to make the world a
slightly more comfortable place for everyone?

CURTIS BURTON
Guest Columnist

One of my favorite scenes in film comes from Spike Lee’s “School Daze.” In the scene, Laurence Fishburne’s character wakes
the entire campus with the plea/admonition “WAKE UP!” After 90 minutes of cultural conflict furthering the schism on Lee’s fictional
“Mission College” campus, Fishburne’s plea awakens every student, faculty member and administrator. The scene resonates with my assessment of our
campus over the last weeks. Based on Opening Convocation, campus conversations about the Confederate flag and the reaction to Jena,
I, too, find myself standing on the proverbial campus green, awakened by Fishburne’s call to “WAKE UP!” I don’t know
anyone who finds complete comfort in these conversations; they are firmly embedded in the nerves of our culture and heavily
guarded by complacency and oppression. But in the midst of it all, I see opportunity.

Last Thursday, I had the pleasure to be one of 46 Davidsonians who partook in the protests in Jena. It
was a powerful experience that will remain in my mind. To see around 20,000 people gather to fight injustice was
remarkable. People came from all over the country and across the political spectrum. Down there, it was clear that indignation
was a general sentiment but that it was restrained. Police tape and boards on windows indicated residents’ expectations of violence
and calamity, but, even so, everyone seemed to understand that there was a greater purpose in peace than in impulsive
acts of violence.

On our return to Davidson, we noted that our experience is not the end-all, be-all experience, nor is it an
opportunity to pat ourselves on the back. You don’t need to ride a bus for 25 hours to make a
difference. If you hear someone utter a racial slur, call him or her on it. We alluded to peer pressure
last week. It achieves enough negative ends, but, this time, use it to achieve something positive. If we as a
community make it clear that intolerance is unacceptable, people won’t have much choice but to comply. Our small community occasionally
feels like a pressure cooker. We complain about it sometimes, but the insular nature of this campus also means that
we have no choice but to take our peers’ suggestions seriously, and, if enough of us continually make the same
suggestion, our peers’ attitudes will change. We don’t care if you are a minority student or not; anytime someone makes
a judgment based on race, the campus becomes a more uncomfortable place for one of your friends, and it embarrasses
the entire community.

The Davidsonian

KATHERINE HESTER
Guest Columnist

As a senior art major, I feel obliged to contribute an art student’s voice to the discussion concerning the prank
involving Antony Gormley’s sculpture “You.” I would like to begin by recognizing that I was once a DUFF Fox, have
chugged a Milwaukee’s Best or two out of a Frisbee in my day and know that Ultimate players are among
the friendliest and most well-meaning folk around. I also know that the people who put a cape on the sculpture
did not do so in a spirit of malice but in a playful spirit that only DUFF could muster. However,
as an artist, seeing a cape duct-taped to a piece of fine art made my heart sink. For the first
time in my career at Davidson, I felt genuinely disappointed in and embarrassed by my school and my peers. While
I knew instantly that no real harm was meant by the act, it became clear to me that Davidson has
a long way to go in terms of understanding and appreciating the visual arts as a part of intellectual discourse—a
fault that, as a prestigious academic community, we should feel ashamed of. However, we can either...

Editor-in-Chief: Summerlee Walter
Managing Editor: Pierce TrumboPoint fingers at one another in relentless debate over who is to blame, or we can allow
this event to help us realize within ourselves and our community a need for reconciliation and change. I hope that
from this regrettable situation we will feel motivated to brainstorm new ways of educating ourselves and others about the irreplaceable
role that the visual arts play in an academic setting and that we will eventually birth a renewed knowledge and
appreciation for the visual arts in our community.

Davidson is an institution that values and respects intellectual discourse, and the artworks in the sculpture garden are physical manifestations
of such discourse, the same as a literary work in the library. Mocking, poking fun at, or physically damaging such
works demonstrate a careless disrespect for the individual who created the work as well as for the value of the
creative, intellectual, spiritual, and philosophical inquiry that the art form embodies. However, instead of arguing over what constitutes righteous punishment
for this deed, I challenge all of us to engage in constructive community discussion about why such an act is
wrong. More than anything, we must ask ourselves as a community why our students do not see dressing up a
sculpture as undoubtedly wrong and disrespectful and what we can do together to increase our awareness of and appreciation for
the visual arts on campus. The sculpture garden itself takes a major step towards meeting this end by making fine
art readily accessible to Davidson students on a daily basis.

While art may at times be hard to understand or seem elitist and unapproachable if you have not studied it
extensively, the same could be said for any other academic discipline. You may feel as though you have not had
adequate exposure to art and therefore cannot see Joel Shapiro’s “Untitled” as anything more than a “boxy black Transformer.” If
that is the case, I encourage you to take advantage of the bite-sized portion of the MoMA in our backyard!
On your way home from class or during a late-night study break from all that reading in E.H. Little, spend
10 minutes with “You.” Imagine what the figure might be thinking or feeling, and what it may suggest about what
the artwork means to be a human being. Give “Homage to Rodin” the time of day, allowing yourself to discover
unexpected things within its rocky crevices. Let Shapiro’s “Untitled” warp your mind as you ponder how such rigid, boxy black
shapes can compose such a graceful, lyrical gesture—what other philosophical paradoxes does this call to mind? Open yourself to the
questions that these works evoke in you to ask of yourself and the world. That is what art is about—and
believe me, those questions matter more than what grade you make on your next review. Above all, I challenge all
of us who strive to “let learning be cherished” to have the courage to approach something that may be new
to us, or that we don’t understand, in such a way that we truly allow it to challenge and change
us.

Katherine Hester ’08 is an art and religion major from Wilmington, N.C. Contact her at kahester@davidson.edu.

---

Accept responsibility toward justice. It is a daily dying of the flesh. It can be neither a minority problem nor
a product of majority culture. Injustice affects us all, and only when we realize that we all suffer from prejudice
will we truly be free. I understand that conversations regarding prejudice on campus may not be a big deal to
some because the prejudice displayed here isn’t as apparent as that exhibited in Jena. Prejudice at Davidson might not materialize
itself in the form of a noose or the exchange of physical blows, but it manifests itself in a passive
form. And perhaps it is the subtle forms of prejudice of which we are all guilty that really hold us
back.

My greatest desire for this campus is that we truly gain a greater sense of who we are. I envision
the Davidson community taking a stand on injustices both near and far and contributing to the discourse regarding the improvement
of our world. Idealism aside, standing up for what is right is more of a responsibility than an option. Our
stand must start here. We cannot stifle these conversations, despite how uncomfortable they may be, because we need to talk
in order to improve. Moreover, conversations about our differences must be founded on respect and the desire for greater understanding.
It’s difficult, but we have the tools, if we have the patience, to explore each other’s views and experiences. And,
besides, let’s consider the alternative. Accepting things as “the way they are” would allow us to maintain a pristine appearance
while intolerance and “otherness” quietly impede us, sagging like a heavy load. Or does it explode?

Chris Burton ’08 is an English and African Studies major from East Orange, N.J. Contact him at chburton@davidson.edu.

---

Corrections:
The Perspectives article titled “Forgotten freedom: the right to vote” was written by Sunny Lee ’11, not Zeke Webster. Contact
Sunny at sulee@davidson.edu.
The Perspectives article “Heed Petraeus’ recommendation on Iraq” was written by Matt Petit ’08, not Bobby DesPain. Contact Matt at
mapetit@davidson.edu.
In the News article “Political organizations gear up for ’08” in the Sept. 12th issue, Lauren Woodall was misquoted as
saying that College Republicans and Young Democrats would watch the presidential debates together. Instead, each group will watch both debates
separately.
