: *. , ae ae KA, absent for over a year from Patterson Court, is back in action.

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2007

Development through history
By PIERCE TRUMBO
Managing Editor

“Development through history” marks the first in a series of articles concerning town development. Next week, The Davidsonian will continue
its history of town development to provide readers with further background on current issues. Thereafter, we will cover these issues—town
development, affordable housing, upcoming town elections, the Light Rail, the College’s relationship with the Town, the development of West Davidson,
etc. We recognize that these issues are complex and sensitive, and, for this reason, we invite town officials and community
members to represent themselves in their own words in our Perspectives pages.
—The Editorial Board

1960s-1970s: Following the completion of Lake Norman in 1963 and of I-77 in 1968, Marine World approached the town of
Davidson about building a theme park near the lake. According to the Sept. 14, 1973 issue of The Davidsonian, Marine
World would have included, in addition to sea animals, “a yacht club, rows of boutiques and exclusive shops, numerous restaurants...chapels
and theatres...[and] a convention center composed of high-rise hotels and exhibit halls.” But the town, backed by the vocal Davidson
Citizen’s Association, refused to run a sewer line to the theme park site and thereby rejected the development proposals. This
marked one of the Town of Davidson’s first and most fantastic experiences with development, but concerns about town development predate
the rejection of Marine World.

In 1972, “The Davidson Community Development Committee” solicited a company to report on the town’s prospects for development. The company—Hammer,
Greene, Siler and Associates—anticipated what many embrace as truth today: that an expanding Charlotte and the newly completed I-77 would
change Davidson. In 1972, Davidson consisted of 600 homes, half of which were associated with the College. For this reason
and because the College predated the Town of Davidson, the College shaped town policy. As current town planner Lauren Blackburn
has said, “The College, up until about 20 years ago, in my opinion, kind of ran things.” The community’s concerns
reflect this influence; priorities ranged from embracing “enlightened zoning policies” to maintaining...

See Development, page 4

By TIM COHEN
Staff Writer

Since the spring of 2006, there has been a notable piece of Patterson Court missing from the Davidson landscape. The
Kappa Alpha Order (KA), situated in the house closest to Vail Commons, was suspended for over a year due to
violations of the College’s and the KA national organization’s risk management policies. The fraternity has since returned to campus with
the hope of reinventing its image at Davidson, recently hosting its first open party.

The Kappa Alpha Order is a nationally recognized fraternity that was founded at Washington College, now known as Washington and
Lee University in Lexington, VA, in 1865. It bases its beliefs and ideals on the traits espoused by General Robert
E. Lee, who was president of Washington College from directly after the Civil War until his death in 1870. The
Sigma chapter was established at Davidson in 1880. Since its inception, KA has been an active member of Davidson College
and graduated such notable alumni as former trustee John Belk ’43 and Secretary of State Dean Rusk ’31.

In the spring of 2006, the National Office of the Kappa Alpha Order suspended the Sigma chapter of KA at
Davidson College for risk management violations. Specifically, those risk management violations included hazing infractions towards new members of the fraternity.
The KA National Office and the College conducted joint investigations that led to a joint decision to suspend the Sigma
Chapter’s charter. Due to the KA brothers’ overwhelming cooperation, however, the period of suspension was one-and-a-half years instead of the
standard three years.

Beginning with a series of interviews by the National Office in May 2007 to discuss the problems with the Sigma
chapter, KA started the process of returning to campus. The true process of rebuilding KA did not begin...

First Class U.S. POSTAGE PAID PERMIT #1 ~ DAVIDSON, NC
VOLUME 99, NUMBER 5Until this semester, when the KA National Office sent a provincial representative to coordinate the reeducation of
KA members at Davidson. The KA Provincial...

See KA, page 2

Noise makes noise
By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Editor-in-Chief

Professor of German and Director of the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies Scott Denham introduced a motion to address noise levels
on Patterson Court at the faculty meeting on Tuesday. According to the motion, “[t]he faculty encourages the Dean of Students
and the staff of the Dean of Students office [to] work with the College’s Director of Public Safety to enforce
the Town of Davidson Noise Ordinance on campus as so empowered by the Town of Davidson Municipal Code.”

After the faculty discussed the motion, Denham withdrew it because he intended the motion as a “discussion-prompting move—purely symbolic.” The
motion resulted from an incident that occurred on Sept. 19 when Denham, who lives near the College, called campus police
to report that noise from what proved to be a registered Wednesday night Court party had woken up his daughter
at approximately 11:30 p.m. When the dispatcher informed him that he could not report a complaint without a street address,
Denham bicycled over to the Court to find the street address of the house from which the noise originated. Upon
arrival at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon (SAE) house, Denham reported the address to dispatch and then entered the house and
asked the Risk Manager to turn down the music. According to him, the Risk Manager allegedly responded that because the
event was a registered party, the house was allowed to play music from 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. SAE brother
Will McGuire ’10, however, claims that the students compromised with Denham by cutting sound to their outside speakers while continuing
to play music inside. When Campus Police arrived, the officers asked students to turn down the music but then explained
that, because the music was within the College’s guidelines for parties, Denham’s complaint was groundless.

According to some faculty members, the validity of that statement is debatable. The College’s Red Book, in its “Regulations for
Student Organizations” section, mandates that “[a]ll student organizations are expected to follow local, state and federal laws.” For faculty members
in favor of the motion, the noise level that often emanates from Patterson Court conflicts with the section of the
Town of Davidson’s municipal code that states: “[i]t shall be...

See Noise, page 5

KA returns to campus

Race: past and present
By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Editor-in-Chief

In light of the recent campus involvement in the Jena 6 campaign and the discussions of diversity that President Ross’s
Opening Convocation remarks encouraged, The Davidsonian decided to investigate both the history of race on campus and the steps that
administrators are taking to address the issues that the campus faces today.

In 1920, members of Davidson College’s Georgia Club staged their “Quips and Cranks” yearbook photograph as a fake lynching. The
young men aimed shotguns and pistols at an African-American man, probably a College employee, with a noose around his neck.
According to Grey 1993 Kelley Honors Thesis “Trapped by Tradition: Davidson’s African-American Community from 1930 to 1970,” the Davidson community,
like the majority of Southern towns and colleges, grappled with race relations throughout its history, and, as is true at
many other colleges, Davidson students contributed both positively and negatively to the changing social dynamic.

In 1968, for example, Ralph Johnson’s and Hood Norton’s barber shops in the Town of Davidson served African-American students but
not African-American townspeople. In response to the inequality, Davidson students wrote a letter to faculty and administrators to express their
disapproval of the policy. “We feel that this policy is unfair, unjust and immoral. We simply feel that a community
barber shop should be open to all members of the community,” they wrote in the April 1968 letter. Students, faculty
and administrators then boycotted the barbershop until the proprietors issued a written statement promising a new policy. Some students also
supported and demonstrated in a community protest march. Thanks in part to the students’ efforts, the barber shops integrated toward
the end of 1968. From Timberlake’s account, it appears that most of the College’s historical efforts to combat racism were
similarly student-led.

See Race, page 2
