THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2007

Your Weekly Dose of Procrastination

Across:
1. Rise
6. One who crosses the line?
10. Greek letter
13. Hue
14. Convenience
15. Campus Building
16. Lock horns
17. Rocker Clapton
18. Fail to mention
19. Series of bad behavior
21. Getting warm
22. Parisian possessive
23. Ukrainian port
25. High
29. Fool
31. Casanova
32. Farm call
33. Stockpile
37. All over again
38. Heart chart (abbr.)
39. Close soccer score
40. The brainy bunch
42. “Seinfeld” uncle
43. aid
44. Pasture
46. Presidential first name
47. Grows
50. Short, for short
51. __ colada
52. Peanuts, for one
59. Bank offerings
60. Shakespeare’s stream
61. California/Nevada lake
62. Georgia __
63. Snowman prop
64. Uncorks
65. Superlative suffix
66. Biblical plot
67. Brewer’s need

Down:
1. Fast one
2. Ripped
3. Aquatic plant
4. You name it
5. Bedroom furniture
6. Mediums
7. Give a darn
8. The East
9. Tempt
10. __ name
11. __ UHF
12. __ vacation
15. Atlanta
20. Criticize severely
24. Strengthen, with “up”
25. Its within your range

By SAMANTHA TALLEY
Staff Writer

“A crazy thriller about extreme characters going to extraordinary, perverted lengths for love.” That's how Director Mark Sutch describes the Theater Department's fall production of Women Beware Women. “It's a story about two young women who are in love but are then corrupted by the world around them,” Sutch said. “One has just eloped with a poor merchant, but, while he is away from home, she is seduced by a rich duke. The other, who is trying to avoid an arranged marriage, has an uncle who is desperately in love with her, and he convinces her they are not related so they can start an affair. Once all the deceptions are uncovered, however, the characters start to plot revenge on each other.”

Written by Thomas Middleton in the early 17th century, Women Beware Women deals with sexual perversion and violence in a manner remarkably ahead of its time. “Part of the reason I chose this play was its universality,” Sutch explained. “The text is 400 years old but addresses themes still relevant to a modern audience.” Sutch admitted that he's loved the play since he first read it in college. “I've always been a fan of horror movies, and Women Beware Women is a lot like one. From the start of both, you know people are going to die, but you keep watching because you want to know how. This play's all about getting to that last scene. I don't want to give anything away, but it's incredibly intense and thrilling.”

Attention Seniors!
We have reached 27.7% paid participation in the Senior Class Gift ~ thanks to all who have participated thus far! Remember if you've made a pledge to give, please send your gift along (P.O. Box 7770) as soon as possible. Don’t forget that once we reach 80% participation President Tom Ross will be MATCHING every dollar we raise up to $10,000, but we still need over 200 more gifts to achieve that! Thanks! Contact Maddie or Anders if you have any questions! (mascough or angustafson)The complicated characters and staging of the play definitely presented some challenges. “We had to incorporate a sword fight and make the language sound realistic and natural. Also, when we were deciding how to stage the script's sexual innuendos, we had to keep in mind that the show will be playing during Parents' Weekend, so we made these moments more suggestive rather than concrete.”

Sutch is enthusiastic about this year's cast, conveying that the cast has made directing the production an amazing, memorable experience for him. “The actors are an incredibly talented and creative group of people. They launched themselves into their roles with abandon, and they always came to rehearsals with endless amounts of ideas and energy.” And though the play is dark and cynical, the rehearsal process has not been. “We've all had a lot of fun working together,” Sutch said. “For example, once we were rehearsing a scene where one character has to leap out of hiding and murder another character, but it just wasn't working, so I told the actor to give a big, violent yell the next time he jumped out. It wound up being hilarious because we were all expecting some sort of guttural scream, but instead he shouted ‘Blamey!' And now that's our rallying cry.”

Women Beware Women opens at 7:30 p.m. on Oct 24 in the Duke Family Performance Hall. Additional performances are on the 25th at 7:30 p.m., the 26th and 27th at 8:15 p.m., and the 28th at 2:00 p.m. Tickets are $6 for students, $9 for faculty and staff, $11 for seniors, and $15 for everyone else.

The latest on a developing story

29. This crossword’s theme
30. “Othello” fellow
32. Liberty __
34. Oscar winner Paquin
35. Navy commando
36. Auctioneer’s cry
41. Feel awful
43. Russian author
45. Slip away
46. Wrestler Flair
47. I will
48. Sends a telegram
49. Make into law
50. Sheets and stuff
53. “Metamorphoses” poet
54. Wear a long face
55. VCR insert
56. Mother of Zeus
57. Charged particles
58. Exterminator’s target

The ranch’s purpose is to educate people about plants while bringing them in closer proximity to the natural world. Gallimore, the owner, supervised a full day of work. The group transplanted several hundred blueberry bushes, dug up old roots, dug holes, planted the plants, covered them with coffee grounds to make the soil acidic, and finally covered the plants with mulch. Gallimore sent the group a thank you email in which he reported that they had finished transplanting the blueberry bushes and moved tons of mulch.

“Alternative breaks are about engaging the students in intentional service over a short period of time while hopefully connecting them to the value of lifetime service,” Case said. In the spring, the alternative breaks program will travel to Sea Island, NC, to participate in a Habitat for Humanity conference; to Immokalee, Florida, to stay at a house for migrant workers; to Big Creek in rural West Virginia to work at a community center and learn about rural poverty; and to New Orleans to participate in Katrina relief.