THE DAVIDSONIAN

Petraeus, Crocker stand firm in the face of Congress' interrogation

Guest Columnist

The big news stories last week were the testimonies of General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker as well as
a notorious ad in the New York Times. Before I opine on the ad, I want to discuss the hearings.
The General and the Ambassador both testified in the Senate and the House. The air, especially the General, performed quite
well. A distinctive assortment of individuals attended the hearings. The General wore his dress uniform, which demonstrated why he is
the head of the U.S. military in Iraq: the uniform alone implies authority.

This authoritative image stood in contrast to the representatives and senators. The General’s uniform attested to the years during which
he dedicated his life to this country. The congressmen’s suits spoke to years spent in air conditioning sitting on comfortable
chairs. While the congressmen stumbled and blundered their way through the questioning with pages of notes before them, the General
rarely used notes and answered with authority. He clearly grasped the situation.

I found the manner of the hearings suspect. First, how is this any way to fight a war? Since when
is it a good idea to detail your strategy on national television that everyone in the world can access? If
I were an Iraqi terrorist, I would simply wait until the United States reduced its forces, then resume suicide attacks
and roadside bombings. Secondly, why should General Petraeus even be required to testify? He is in the middle of not
just fighting but controlling the war. Did General Dwight D. Eisenhower ever have to come home to be questioned by
Congress during World War II?

The New York Times ran a full-page advertisement (at a family discount, no less) for the left-wing hate group MoveOn.org,
which questioned General Petraeus’ integrity. I find it interesting that the New York Times feels it even has the authority
to question the integrity of anyone when its own honor is suspect. Remember Jayson Blair? I am intrigued that the
New York Times and MoveOn.org seem to hate the military so much when they benefit from the protection the military
provides.

One of the best commentaries I heard in regard to the ad was from Dennis Miller. Basically, he said that
the only thing MoveOn.org has on General Petraeus is wordplay (and a poor argument at that). They substitute creativity with
being contrary. Miller’s view is truly insightful; MoveOn.org has nothing positive to donate to American society, so it resorts to
word games in an attempt to discredit the General.

Beyond showing how the New York Times and MoveOn.org feel about our military and its soldiers, the ad shows how
certain presidential candidates think. None of the Democratic candidates would publicly state what an atrocity the ad was. They want
to be the next President and do not even have the decency to stand up for a man who has
given his life to this country. Even Nancy Pelosi stood up for him. Supporters of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama
need to be aware that their candidates have little respect for the military and will not stand up to anti-American
fringe groups like MoveOn.org.

PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2007

Anbar dreaming: a not-so-ideal deal

ZEKE WEBSTER Guest Columnist

The great success story that General Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker brought Congress last week was the so-called “Anbar Awakening,”
in which many of the Sunnis in the Al-Anbar province, previously the hotbed of Sunni insurgency and the leading source
of U.S. deaths and IED attacks, turned against Al-Qaeda in Iraq. Upon turning against Al-Qaeda, these Sunnis began receiving arms
and training from the U.S. forces in that area, working with our soldiers against the foreign fighters who have claimed
responsibility for some of the worst acts of the war. Faced with the abject failure of the national government to
reach some kind of accord among Iraq’s ruling factions, Petraeus, Crocker, and the rest of the Bush Administration describe this
as our new path to victory. “Bottom-Up Reconciliation” will provide peace and ultimately stability, they claim, allowing us to return
triumphant from Mesopotamia—as long as the Democrats don’t screw it all up by withdrawing the troops prematurely.

While this sounds wonderful, and it is certainly a good thing that these Sunnis in Al-Anbar have turned against their
former allies, it is absolutely not the path to victory that Petraeus describes. This is happening because Al-Qaeda in Iraq
has accomplished the impossible: they’ve made the Sunnis hate them more than the Sunnis hate us. In fact, AQI is
so barbaric and bloodthirsty that it lost the support of the Sunnis even while U.S. troops occupied Al-Anbar and the
U.S.-backed government was complicit in the wholesale slaughter of Sunnis by sectarian Shiite militias. Months before the “surge” began, many
of the same sheikhs who had been leading the insurgency came to us for help against their former allies. If
AQI were attempting to become a marginal player in Iraqi politics, this would be considered an impressive success.

Sober?: In about two hours, I'll be 21 years old. (Ok, this is the part where you buy me a
drink.)That means you, Dr. Wessner. After Bio 111, who doesn’t need a drink? What are birthdays anyway? Birthdays are simply
arbitrary dates unpredictably dictated by our parents and the big man upstairs, right? (Yes, I have a philosophical side... Actually,
I’m totally making this up as I go along. Can you tell?) Well, I’d like to think that each birthday
marks a new year—a new era in my life to embark upon with friends and family by my side (yada
yada); however, as the big 2-1 approaches, I can’t help but ponder the true significance, or perhaps the lack thereof,
of the elusive 21st birthday.

Last Friday, my friend and I ventured to the Taj-ma-Teeter. In the parking lot, we stumbled upon the wonderful David
Kerns '08, who looked happier than a fat kid on Halloween.

ASHLEY SEMBIWE

Birthdays are simply arbitrary dates unpredictably dictated by our parents and the big man upstairs, right? “Guys, there’s a wine-tasting
event in there! It’s... it’s... just... wow... it’s amazing! AND five percent off all wine!” His eyes sparkled. His face
glimmered with glee. I’m a self-proclaimed wino; fate dealt me a cruel hand that day. Just 36 hours before my
long-awaited birthday, there was a free wine-tasting event at the Taj-ma-Teeter and I wasn’t driving. Damn you, Teeter! I think
it was Dickens... no wait... ah yes, it was Alanis Morissette who said, “Isn’t it ironic? Don’t cha think?” (No,
actually Alanis, it’s not ironic. Like my instance at the Teet, it’s just an instance of bad luck, not true
irony. For anyone who doesn’t know what I’m talking about, go back and listen to this late-90s jam or watch
a VH1 special.)

The guy I was with has been 21 for quite some time and approached each wine station with confidence as
I lingered awkwardly behind. I couldn’t help but wonder: do I look “of age”? In 36 hours, am I really
going to look any older? Finally, I asked one of the vendors for a little sample—mostly because I was bored,
but also because I wanted to see if he would actually serve me. I figured that it was worth a
shot, even though I wasn’t carrying an ID, let alone one that said I was 21. I looked to the
left and gazed at station after station of wines just begging for the taking. I finally asked for some yummy-looking
Pinot Noir. Access firmly denied. Buzz kill. (Is “buzz kill” even a cool phrase to use anymore?) In the process,
I also got glared at by the vendor who clutched the wine to his chest and probably has ALE on
speed-dial. I’m sweet, I know.

A mere week before the Taj-ma-Teeter incident, I went to dinner at an unidentified location for an unidentified fraternity’s homecoming
event and didn’t get carded. The next night, when I didn’t get carded again at another unspecified location and drank
to my heart’s content. (For all those concerned parents out there, I did not drive on either occasion. No worries.)
I concluded that while the actual age of 21 does not mean much by itself, it does represent a greater
ideal: a rite of passage into adulthood when you can do something—in fact, many things—that those younger than you cannot.
As midnight steadily approaches, bringing my last momentous birthday with it, I can’t help but be as giddy as a
schoolgirl!

Ashley Semble ’09 is from Winston-Salem, N.C. Contact her at assemble@davidson.edu.
