DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Curry Club, Interfaith, and the Asian Cultural Awareness Association celebrated Diwali, an Indian holiday, by bringing together students, food, and
entertainment on Sunday.

The changing dynamics of charity
By Kate Gillespie
Staff Writer

Three panelists offered local and global perspectives on philanthropy in the non-profit sector during a discussion on Monday night. Associate
Professor of Political Science Ken Menkhaus, President Tom Ross, and Tim Ogden ’95 spoke on the trends and challenges within
the field. Menkhaus will teach his course, “Philanthropy in the Non-Profit Sector,” in the spring. Ross served as Executive Director
at the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation before coming to Davidson, and Ogden is currently the Chief Knowledge Officer at Geneva
Global.

Menkhaus spoke first to frame the broader issue. He defined the difference between philanthropy and the non-profit sector by saying
that “one gives and one receives.” Non-profit organizations are private and self-governing. They serve a public good by raising money
or seeking government funds. According to Menkhaus, the downside of these organizations is that some “promote their narrow interests at
the expense of the larger good.”

The Town’s stance on development, page 2
New professor brings new take on race, education, page 3
Letters from abroad (and not), page 5
Pete Schild’s play, “Be Aggressive,” page 6
Ask Aubry debut, page 6
Why the Athletics deserves more funding, page 8
Davidson’s town planner in his own words, page 8
The honorable thing to do, page 9
Money and baseball, page 10
Women’s basketball team drops opener, page 11

And don’t forget to check out the online edition...

Non-profit organizations today face greater pressure to raise money and produce measurable results for their donors. There is also a
corporate approach to managing these organizations. Menkhaus said that another characteristic of the non-profit sector today is the “blurring of
the line between the non-profit sector, the for-profit sector, and the government sector.” According to Menkhaus, these partnerships provide opportunities
for non-profits to become more sustainable. Ross used his time at the Z. See Philanthropy, page 4

DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEEKLY
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2007
First Class U.S. POSTAGE PAID
Permit #1 Davidson, NC
VOLUME 99, NUMBER 6

Indian festival celebrated with food, fun, and performances
By Curtis Moore
News Editor

Last weekend, Davidson students joined together to celebrate Diwali, a festive Indian holiday. Diwali has historically been a religiously significant
event in Hinduism and other Indian faiths, such as Jainism and Sikhism. Today it is celebrated by Hindus, Jains, and
Sikhs across the globe as the “Festival of Light,” where the lights or lamps signify the victory of good over
evil within every human being. The Sanskrit word “Deepavali” means an array of lights that stands for the victory of
brightness over darkness.

In India, Diwali is now considered to be a national festival, and most Indians enjoy the aesthetic aspect of the
festival, regardless of faith. Over the course of the five-day festival, homes are thoroughly cleaned and windows are opened to
welcome the goddess of wealth. Candles and lamps are then lit to invite prosperity and well-being into the home.lit as
a greeting to Laksmi, gifts are exchanged and festive meals are prepared. As a part of the college celebration, a
group of Davidson students went to the Hindu Center in Charlotte on Saturday. Interfaith organized the trip. Mr. Thakur Topiwalla,
a teacher at the center, met with the students and showed them around.

On Sunday, Curry Club, Interfaith, and the Asian Cultural Awareness Association organized a Diwali celebration on campus. Approximately 130 students,
faculty, and community members attended the event, which began with an interactive ritual demonstration in which students gave offerings of
flowers, rice, and sweets to the deities. It continued with Indian snacks, chai, and a classical/devotional dance performance by artist
Pallavi Penumetcha.

Nafisa Isa ’08, one of the student leaders behind the event, said, “We tried to incorporate basic elements of Diwali,
such as the religious rituals, candles, and flowers into our celebration. We also wanted to add more celebratory elements, ones
that are feasible at Davidson, such as Pallavi Penumetcha’s dance performance, food, and folk dancing.”

Isa, who is Muslim, said, “I like the idea of helping promote interfaith awareness and understanding at Davidson. As President
of the Muslim Students Association,” she added, “I was very impressed by the number of non-Muslim people who helped us
make the Fast-a-thon a success earlier in the semester, and I think both these events indicate the amount of cooperation
among students of different faiths at Davidson.”

Isa added that she was “really glad we were able to hold this event on the Courtyard of the new
Duke Dormitory. It’s a great central location on campus and I hope that more international-oriented events take place there in
the future.”

As staff advisor for Interfaith, see Diwali, page 2

Former head of USAID talks foreign policy
By Monica Jamouneau
News Editor

In the second Bank of America lecture on Nov. 7, Andrew Natsios, former Administrator of the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID), spoke at length about the United States’ approach to international development. Natsios, who held his post at
USAID from 2001 until 2005, is now a Professor of International Studies at Georgetown University, his alma mater. He received
his Masters of Public Administration from Harvard. For the last 18 years, Natsios has been involved in international assistance work
and in 2006, he served as special envoy to Sudan, where he focused on the crisis in Darfur. He has
written two books on American foreign policy.

Natsios began his lecture on Wed. night by recalling a fateful meeting in September 2001, when he was called into
Condoleezza Rice’s office to discuss what he called a “radical shift:” an increase in the importance of international development to
American foreign policy. For the first time in history, the U.S. had a development officer write the national security strategy
following 9/11. “America is no longer threatened principally by strong states but by weak states,” Natsios said, explaining how leaders
such as Osama Bin Laden could have such a strong effect from third world nations like Afghanistan. It is these
“ungoverned spaces,” Natsios said, to which we should pay attention. There are now 42 of them according to the Pentagon,
see Natsios, page 3

Natsios served as Administrator of USAID.
