@ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST” DAVIDSON COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2007

SUPPORTING THE CURE

This laundry line of bras hung by Connor House across the Union Atrium publicizes Breast Cancer Awareness Month.

Protest lecture hits home

By ALISSA CURRAN
News Editor

Tuesday evening’s lecture, led by two 1960s civil rights activists, drew a diverse crowd consisting of a contemporary generation seeking to learn and an older one hoping to reminisce. The speakers engaged the audience with vivid descriptions and lots of interaction.

Former civil rights activist Aubrey Brown pushed through tears to recount tales of his experiences with protests during the 1960s. During his time at Union Theological Seminary in New York City, Brown first encountered protesting when several students decided that they were going to picket outside a local restaurant in an effort to integrate the lunch counter. Brown also acknowledged his less glamorous protest experiences, recalling people spitting on him and the gradual disintegration of support from students and professors.

“There was a quiet counter pressure to the picketing—after a week or two, there were only two of us to carry on,” Brown said. Persistence did lead to success, however; the following fall the lunch counters were integrated. The experience taught Brown that he was not meant to stay in seminary, and a few months later he became one of the first Peace Corps volunteers to teach in Nigeria.

After Brown’s experience in Africa, he continued to pursue graduate work in sociology at Columbia University, also in New York City. It was his time in NYC that introduced him to the many large-scale demonstrations in which he participated. While there, Brown protested against the Vietnam War and apartheid in South Africa.

“I was described as a ‘conserva- See Lecture, page 2

John Woods and Bill Jackson respond to resident’s inquiries

By PIERCE TRUMBO
Managing Editor

Last Thursday the Lake Norman Chamber of Commerce, an association of businesses, held the Town of Davidson’s second election forum. The forum took place in Town Hall and featured both mayoral and Town Board candidates. Jerry Hancock, host of Charlotte’s WTVI’s current events program Final Edition, moderated the debate.

Around 75 people, mostly middle-aged and older, showed up to the event and were invited to write questions for the candidates on notecards. Hancock then relayed the questions to the candidates.

The forum’s first section featured mayoral candidates John Woods and William “Bill” E. Jackson Jr. ’57. Jackson was an Economics-Political Science double major, who later served as a professor of Political Science at the College. He also enjoyed a long career in Washington which included stints under two presidents, John F. Kennedy and Jimmy Carter. Recently, Jackson has worked as a journalist, writing for Editorial & Publisher and Huffington Post (Arianna Huffington’s website). Just this year, the College awarded Jackson its “Distinguished Alumnus Award.”

Jackson has long opposed development in Davidson and has said that he is only running for mayor because no other candidates espousing his views decided to run. His campaign slogan, founded upon preserving what Jackson considers the threats against Davidson’s small-town character, is “Keep Davidson special.”

A U.S. Army veteran and Davidson

---

on the inside...

News
Meet the Town Board candidates, page 3
YDs and CRs debate, page 4

Yowl
“One Key,” page 5

Arts
A night at the opera, page 6
SoAlive! worth the visit, page 6

Perspectives
Petit on Turkey, page 8

Sports
In a Bolivian boys’ home, page 9
The emergence of Davidson basketball, page 10
Why true Sox fans might cheer for Rockies, page 10

And don’t forget to check out the online edition...Native Woods completed his undergraduate education in Business Administration from Presbyterian College, received an M.B.A. from the University of South Carolina, and attended the Louisiana State University School of Banking. Woods has more than 30 years of experience in banking and is now the Senior Vice President of Peoples Bank. Woods worked on the Davidson Land Plan Task Force. He has served on the Town Board since 1997 and has been the mayor pro-tem since 2001. In the community, Woods has been involved with Habitat for Humanity, the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, and the Davidson Housing Coalition. The debate took no time in getting to the town’s major issue: development. “We want to keep Davidson a small town,” Woods said in his opening statement. “We also want to make Davidson a self-sustaining town.” Conversely, in his opening statement, Jackson said that he did not recognize the Lake Norman Chamber of Commerce as a legitimate host of the debate, asserting that “they don’t represent the people.” Jackson also stressed the negative effects of development for Davidson and the community’s unawareness of these effects. “I submit that you are in denial if you live in this region,” Jackson told the crowd.

See Forum, page 2

VOLUME 99, NUMBER 7

By Curtis Moore, News Editor

Fountain Walker, Chief of Campus Police at Davidson College, has dedicated much of his adult life to public service as a United States Marine, Police Officer, and Police Administrator. On Nov. 6 he will continue along this path by placing his name on the ballot for Town Commissioner. Walker sees his candidacy as “a continuation of [his] efforts to represent all citizens, regardless of economic standing or historical boundaries.” Walker sat down with News Editor Curtis Moore to discuss some of the prominent issues facing the Town of Davidson.

Curtis Moore: You oppose the Davidson-Mooresville plan to buy a local cable TV system. Can you explain why you are not in favor of this idea?

Fountain Walker: What we know is very limited. We have had the opportunity to attend a few meetings and they have an agreement that was signed by the municipalities involved. The issue is that when you’re talking about acquiring something like a cable company, for whatever reason, you need to be able to spell out to the people of the community why and what the true benefit is. Don’t tell me it’s just better service. Tell me how this revenue is going to impact us in a positive way. Don’t tell me you’re going to provide a better service when you have another entity managing the system from Virginia.

CM: So will the cable company not in fact be local?

FW: The town itself will have a governing body that will communicate with the company in Virginia but, ultimately, we won’t have any control. So, we're kind of backing the same thing we’ve already got. We at least know Time-Warner has the resources and the equipment to come out here. If I had the opportunity to take a stand and get more community input and the community speaks and says, “No,” then that’s the direction I’m going to go in. We need to get the community more involved. If you’re going to do something that’s going to affect the whole entire town, then you really need to spell it out. A layman should look at it and be able to understand what’s going on.

See Fountain, page 2