STAFF Editorial

Fan Support at the Men’s Basketball Games: A-
Sporting a 19-0 conference record so far this season, it is no surprise that the basketball team has drawn enormous crowds this semester. However, fans should spend their energy supporting the Wildcats rather than heckling opposing fans as they did at the Winthrop Bracketbuster game.

Fan Support at All Other Sporting Matches: D+
Men’s basketball is not the only team at Davidson with admirable numbers. The women's swimming team recently won the inaugural Coastal Collegiate Swimming Association championship and both the men’s and women’s tennis teams have taken six of eight matches. But they don’t draw crowds. Even women’s basketball, with its impressive conference record of 11-5, does not always receive the credit they deserve. Students would do well to support all of the varsity athletes and the staff would do well to promote them.

Environmental Awareness: B+
While the Real Talk series on environmental concerns has drawn to a close, efforts to continue awareness and positive change on campus have continued. Davidson recently entered the Recyclemania Challenge, and residents of the Eco House finished up an impressive Green Week campaign. So long as students do not forget to conserve and maintain eco-friendly habits, this category might just receive an A next time around.

RSC Residency: B-
Members of the RSC received their final scripts just four days before their performance, and even with their scripts on stage, the actors blew the audience away with their obvious skill and enthusiasm. As far as talent is concerned, we're well aware the RSC is more than capable. However, this final installment of the Residency failed to impress overall. This year, the RSC’s events failed to capture the excitement of previous years.

Dining Services: C
No, nothing revolutionary happened this semester. This may seem an unprovoked issue. However, the fact that Dining Services has failed to expand its options is not impressive. For example, freshmen athletes who are unable to attend designated meal hours waste their required meal plans on a daily basis due to conflicting practice times. Meal plans are also not accepted at the Union Café during certain hours.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl

Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Katherine Miller

News Editors
Alissa Curran & Chris Moore

Perspectives Editors
Laura Van Oudenaren & Matt Petit

Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Errington & Caroline Wood

Yow! Editors
James Boswell & Alex Hoyt

Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Patrick McArdle

Photography Editor
Ben Ellinor

Copy Editor
Gretchen Hoffman

Business, Advertising, and Circulation Managers
Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Jamie Hofmeister

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. Phone (704) 894-2148. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2008

Recent incident not just Court problem
By PAUL STROUP
Guest Columnist

Two weekends ago, several Davidson students embarrassed themselves by making inappropriate comments to African-American guests on campus. After reading David Dennis’ article in last week's Davidsonian, I was also offended and frustrated by these students. They decided to mock Mr. Dennis and his guests after a hip-hop performance at the Outpost. Further, when these students visited a fraternity party that same night, they continued to be badgered. Racism and prejudicial remarks cannot be tolerated on campus — in the Outpost, at a party, in the dorms, or in the classroom.

This academic year has brought our attention to some sensitive subjects: whether we are helping minority students feel welcome in the Davidson community and whether our current programs are working. It is important to remember that these comments could have been made at any social event on campus. I hope we can use this unfortunate experience as a springboard to open a discussion of race and social life at Davidson. It is not organizations, but individual students who harbor racist sentiments.

Several students called Mr. Dennis and his guests “dawgs” and “homies.” These words are not racist in themselves but become so when used in a demeaning tone. Perhaps these statements were not intended to be perceived as demeaning. Visiting Professor Hassan El Menyawi recently said in a discussion between students and faculty that many derogatory remarks are a result of ignorance rather than hatred. I hope, and suspect, that the students used these terms out of ignorance, not hatred.

It is also important to remember that not all students who attend Court parties are affiliated with a Patterson Court organization. Davidson has chosen to keep social events open to all students with a PCC sticker, regardless of whether they have joined an organization or not. This policy fosters a better community by eliminating the exclusivity of fraternity events that exists on many other campuses. Students are welcome to bring guests to Patterson Court parties and often do. These guests may enter and stay at the house as long as they follow the rules and remain with their host. If visitors are unaccompanied or uninvited, Patterson Court Risk Managers or house leadership must require these visitors to leave the party as stipulated by PCC policy.policy. Imagine the surprise to see 20 unfamiliar faces! If a student at the party did not realize these young men were all guests of Mr. Dennis, and thought they were instead uninvited visitors, this situation could certainly cause discomfort, regardless of race or gender. It must be Patterson Court’s policy to consider and protect the safety of Davidson students. During this particular social event, all visitors were informed of the house policy against fighting, not only Mr. Dennis’ guests. The house in question had dealt with incidents of fighting by visitors in previous years. It was their policy for the night to prevent a fight from recurring by warning all visitors, including the guests of several brothers. Though perhaps not the most tactful of policies, it was an act intended to prevent harm.

In response to calls for the removal of Patterson Court organizations, I agree with Mr. Dennis that racial tensions are not simply a Court issue. It is not organizations but individual students who harbor racist sentiments. Patterson Court organizations foster relationships, promote community service, host social functions and provide a support group to almost half of the student body. The most important aspects of our Patterson Court system are the relationships built between members. We must continue to have an open dialogue about race relations. The campus cannot continue to be divided along racial lines, and it is not up to PCC, SGA or the BSC to break these barriers. It must be determined by the student body. Students must consciously defeat apathy and bigotry by refusing to tolerate racial slurs or promote stereotypes. Action must be taken by majority and minority students alike to help better integrate the student body.

Paul Stroup ’09 is an Economics major and President of the Patterson Court Council from Charlotte, N.C. Contact him at pastroup@davidson.edu

Democrats fail to address ideas, reality

“If substance were water, the Democratic campaign would be a desert.” Jonah Goldberg’s observation is spot-on. The issues discussed by Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama address racism, sexism and plagiarism. Each campaign discusses how they need to win over blacks, Hispanics, women and the young. Their exchanges involve debating whom Martin Luther King Jr. would support, who plagiarized what speech and who has endorsed whom. Each endorsement leads the other camp to claim a particular group has been wronged. They do not discuss ideas. They just scream whatever “-ism” is fashionable at the moment.

Contrast this with the Republican campaign. Questions were not asked on how John McCain would win over the young or how Rudy Giuliani would win over women. The Republican campaign is centered around ideas. Could Rudy win over the pro-life, pro-gun crowd? Could Huckabee convince fiscal conservatives? Could McCain prove that he himself is a conservative? Could he convince them to ignore McCain-Feingold and McCain-Kennedy and focus on the war in Iraq and national security? Amongst the Republican candidates, there were no charges of racism or sexism, just charges of not being conservative enough. At Republican debates, the candidates argued over real ideas such as taxes, terrorism and freedom. The candidates tried to win over the minds of individuals with their proposals on taxes, immigration, guns, abortion and so on. Republicans did not try to win over certain races or demographics; they tried to show different schools of thought that they have a home in the Republican Party.

Democrats ignore the people’s minds and instead appeal to their emotions. Hillary tries to ignite fury amongst women, Barack amongst blacks. They do not argue over ideas or policies, but rather who has dealt more with the corrupt Tony Rezko or who has plagiarized more. However, once they get past trying to out-scandal the other, the debate over ideas is even worse. When asked a question, each candidate responds how similar he/she is to the other. Hillary and Barack are fairly identical. They like to get heated over the differences in their healthcare plans, but in the end both offer socialized medicine. At Republican debates, the candidates argued over real ideas such as taxes, terrorism and freedom. Hillary claims she is ready to lead on day one while Barack counters that he opposed Iraq from the beginning. Again, both would immediately pull troops from Iraq. Each one makes the mundane claim to be the agent of change, but all their positions are the same liberal policies heard for the past 40 years. What they plan to change remains unknown.

The other difference between the parties lies in their overall attitude toward the United States. Republican candidates like and respect their country and her people. The Democrats cannot distance themselves enough from their country. Michelle Obama recently said, “For the first time in my adult lifetime, I am really proud of my country, and not just because Barack has done well, but because I think people are hungry for change.” Is she not proud of the fact that the United States saved the world not once, not twice, but three times and is trying to do it a fourth? Is she not proud when Americans donate money to treat patients in Africa or aid tsunami victims? Is she not proud of her country for creating a society in which she and her husband can obtain four degrees and over a million dollars between them?

Thus, in November, voters will have to make the decision between a party of ideas and a party of thirst. One promises hope and change. The other promises reality.

Bobby DesPain ’11 is undeclared. He is from St. Louis, Mo. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.