6 By JENNIFER ERRINGTON Arts & Living Editor

A beautiful afternoon last Wednesday marked the grand opening of Davidson’s new sculpture garden located under the foliage between Chambers
and Little Library. Consisting of three diverse and intriguing pieces of art, the garden will provide students, faculty, and visitors
with a peaceful venue to study and enjoy a peaceful repose.

President Ross initiated the ceremony with a welcoming speech, which touched on the garden’s importance and overall impact on the
learning environment of the College. Believing the garden to be more than merely another gathering place, President Ross emphasized that
it “creates a new venue to learn and appreciate art.”

Director of Visual Arts and the Campus Sculpture Program Brad Thomas explained the process by which the pieces were selected.
The Sculpture Program maintains a set list of criteria that pieces must meet in order to be eligible for selection.
First, the artist must have created or explored a new genre. Second, he or she must be “virtuosic” in his
or her genre. Lastly, his or her art must represent that genre. In addition, Thomas commented that before the installation
of the sculptures, the garden was merely a “space without identity or direction” and that the improved area is a
“cultural haven outside the walls of the gallery.”

What makes the garden even more precious is that the artists that are featured are highly accomplished and well-regarded, and
students across the globe study their works in art classes. The art is so accessible that you could observe one
of the sculptures and then walk into the library and check out a book on the artist. In addition, a
forthcoming audio guide explaining the sculptures will provide another level of accessibility.

While one can sit and passively observe the sculptures, the garden is designed for a more active experience. As you
move around the garden, you get a different perspective viewing the sculptures. Daytime light and ground lighting at night create
two different experiences. Try changing your perspective by sitting instead of standing, and you can see myriad differences in angles,
lines, and shapes. Depending on where you start, your overall experience will be different each time you visit.

The bronze angular sculpture closest to the library is called ‘Untitled’ by Joel Shapiro, and is a gift of the
artist and Katherine Belk. Moving clockwise around the garden, you find the ‘Homage to Rodin’ by William Tucker, a gift
to the College from the Class of 1993. Completing the trio stands the human-esque ‘You’ by Antony Gormley, donated by
Davidson’s own Ruth Anne and Bobby Vagt in honor of their daughters Ashley Vagt Buford ’94 and Lindsey Vagt ’01.
Attached on the bench which encircles the garden are three plaques with more information on each of the sculptures that
reside there.

Students and faculty present at the opening seemed sincerely pleased with the garden. Professor of Classics Dr. Toumazou commented that
the garden is a “really wonderful addition of culture and arts to the campus, and the garden makes you feel
right at home.” Laura Webb ’08 appreciates “where [the garden] is placed because everyone walks by.” Whether you are an
art aficionado or chemistry major, the sculpture garden may provide you with a moment of zen.

Considering the generous donations that make the sculpture garden possible, we should feel fortunate to have these pieces and make
sure that they continue to stand here for future students. So, the next moment you spend studying next to ‘You’
or contemplating ‘Untitled,’ take a moment to play with light and shapes or stop into the library to read up
on the artists. Slow down on your hurried walks between Chambers and the library. Green grass is much better than
the dearly departed green carpet, and you could use the break.

Duke’s themed halls may cause enthusiasm
By SAMANTHA TALLEY Staff Writer

If you walked by the back of Duke Residence Hall a few weeks ago, you might have thought you had
left Davidson and found yourself in another, more foreign land. You might have swayed to the crisp tunes of Son
Quatro without realizing it, found yourself contentedly munching on a fortune cookie, and enjoyed the rare sight of watching students
salsa across the sidewalk. Perhaps if you stuck around long enough, you saw one girl skip over to President Tom
Ross and invite him to join the dance party. The newly renovated Dukeis no ordinary dorm. Not only is it
the culmination of years of planning and a year of construction, it is also the trial run for a brand
new living option at Davidson: theme halls. “The idea that sparked the project was to gather a group of students
who share similar international interests and have them live and work with one another,” Professor of Spanish and faculty advisor
for the Spanish hall Dr. Samuel Sanchez-Sanchez explained. “After extensive conversations with students, it became clear that they were particularly
interested in two specific themes: a Spanish language and cultures community and a community focused on political and economic development.”

The newly relocated Dean Rusk Office, which was moved to make international culture more visible on campus, is a key
feature of Duke. “Since the interest in international studies and experiences has always been strong and has continued to grow
here at Davidson, the Dean Rusk Program thought about using their new home in Duke as a platform to emphasize
the importance of having an international component as part of the Davidson education,” Sanchez-Sanchez said.

On the Spanish hall, which is housed on the first floor of the dorm, students will speak the language as
frequently as possible and learn about the cultures of various Spanish-speaking countries over the course of the year. “An overarching
goal is language immersion — living, speaking, and using Spanish both as a way to interact with each other and
as a tool to reflect upon issues that interest students,” Sanchez-Sanchez commented. “Overall, there are at least two main goals
that we would like to accomplish as a community: making Spanish the principal means of communication and enhancing student-faculty interaction
outside the classroom.”

In addition to improving language skills, students will meet with their faculty advisor once a week for hall programs. “These
meetings will probably consist of discussing an article, watching a movie, eating a meal together, or just talking about some
issue related to the theme,” Sanchez-Sanchez explained. “In these meetings, my task as the advisor is to facilitate the discussion.”

Taylor Denslow, ’08, the RA, added, “We’ve discussed organizing a possible service-oriented spring break trip to South America. We will
also be attempting to cook and prepare food from Spanish-speaking countries and discussing relevant topics, such as Latin immigration into
the U.S.”

The residents of the Political and Economic Development hall, just one floor down, will also attend weekly meetings with their
advisor. “We’ve had a couple of preliminary meetings, and the students are debating how they’d like to organize the hall’s
activities,” Professor of Political Science and faculty advisor for the hall Ken Menkhaus said.

Emily Miller ’10 has several goals for the year. “I would like to do some workshops with speakers and compare
the contributions that different cultures make to their economies,” she explained. “I chose to live on this hall because I
am not as politically or economically aware as I should be. I support a particular platform, but I am not
always certain who represents the ideas that I value or how economic development is affected by the political decisions that
a population makes. Right now I feel like I’m swimming around in a pool of different notions, but by the
end of the year I would like to have a more stable understanding.” Clearly, the hall’s theme and programs are
already promoting awareness of development issues.

Both the students on the theme halls and their faculty counterparts are optimistic about the coming year. “I am very
happy to be a part of this exciting and unique cultural community on campus,” Sanchez-Sanchez said. “The student-faculty interaction outside
the classroom is definitely an important component of this experience, and I am looking forward to meeting with students and
spending time with them in their own space in order to have thought-provoking conversations in an informal environment.”

Taylor shared her advisor’s enthusiasm. “It’s hard to find time to devote to the hall when our schedules are already
so busy, but I think once we actually get into the routine of meeting weekly it will be very rewarding
and exciting.”

On the whole, it seems that the themed halls are catching on, and clearly some different thinking is being inspired
by the new environment. While you may not be whisked away to foreign lands from campus, it’s good to see
people thinking about issues and cultures that exist miles away.
