____THE DAVIDSONIAN YE OLDE DAVIDSON WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2008

The basketball team traveled to New York City’s Madison Square Garden to tip off against the home-town NYU. Chambers Building
housed the all-male student body in the past. One such Chambers dorm room is pictured below. This was the style
room Woodrow Wilson would have inhabited.

Founding, from page 7

old at the time, giving him the honor of Davidson’s youngest president. In his inaugural address, Reverend Morrison concluded his
speech by stating, “Let the friends of this institution do their duty and trust in God, and we have much
to hope for and but little to fear, in reference to its prosperity.” With this sentiment in mind, Davidson flourished.

The rigorous physical qualifications to graduate Davidson today consist of a few all-nighters, some freshmen flickerball games, and the get-to-know-your-fellow-freshmen
swim test. Compared to the work of the manual labor school, however, Davidson students today live in luxury. Davidson men
of 1836 were required to burn a little elbow grease along with the midnight oil, mixing their natural sciences in
the morning with some natural soil-tilling activities in the afternoon. As a manual labor institution, morality and philosophy were taught
alongside agriculture. The primary areas of scholastic study consisted of moral and natural philosophy, evidences of Christianity, classical languages, logic,
and mathematics. Spending their days with their heads in the books and hoes in the fields, these Davidson men further
exhibited their resourcefulness by doing their own laundry. This was the case until 1919 when the Lula Bell Laundry first
made its presence on campus.

Like many students today, Davidson men in the 1800s studied religiously, quite literally in fact. Davidson was established in order
to educate men and also prepare them to become Presbyterian ministers. Required weekly chapel and vespers services remained mandatory for
students until 1965. Faculty members were also required to profess Christian beliefs by signing a vow upon their inauguration. This
policy remained until 1965, when it was only slightly adjusted. In 1972, Dr. Ronald Linden (a Jewish professor applying for
a position in the political science department) found fault with the by-laws limiting his religious affiliation. As a result, an
offer of employment to Dr. Linden was repealed. This event drew national attention, unleashing a series of controversies regarding the
college’s religious affiliation. Davidson’s close ties with the Presbyterian Church continued to be questioned and adapted well into the ’90s.

Davidson’s first Commencement exercises took place on July 30, 1840, with a graduating class of 11 students. Also that year,
the school’s seal was designed by Peter Stuart Ney. An element of mystery exists behind the school seal’s creator. The
French immigrant Ney exhibited striking similarities to Napoleon’s Marshal Ney in his physical appearance and mannerisms, and whenever he drank
heavily, he would claim to be Napoleon’s favorite general. Samples of Ney’s handwriting have revealed that he was indeed Napoleon’s
general. Since its first commencement in 1840, Davidson has changed significantly, but the words of Reverend Morrison continue to resonate
with the College and its students today: we “have much to hope for and but little to fear.”

By KATHERINE JOHNSON Staff Writer

Chambers Building is the pride and joy of Davidson College. The imposing, monolithic neoclassical structure graces all of our Cat
Cards and every admissions brochure, and students flock to it in droves several times throughout the day at the bell’s
prodding. During exams, the student body practically moves into Chambers, and even Santa himself repels from its roof. But on
Nov. 28th, 1921, a fire ravaged Chambers and threatened the very existence of Davidson College. The original Chambers building was
completed in 1859 and was named for Maxwell Chambers, the man who gave Davidson the funds to build it. Impressively,
it was one of few Davidson buildings to survive the fires that ravaged the South during the Civil War.By 1921,
it had flourished into the true heart of the campus, as it housed 135 freshmen boys (half the student body),
an elaborate auditorium, laboratories, ample classroom space, and a library with 10,000 books and museums, among other things. According to
a typescript of the College Bulletin from Dec. 1921, Chambers was worth $250,000, but “sentiment and affection and mathematical figures
alike combined to make one see in the building a structure of almost inestimable value.”

This heart of Davidson College became threatened by fire on the night of Nov. 28th, 1921. The fire broke out
at 4 a.m., but bleary-eyed students sleeping in Chambers’ dorms didn’t notice the building was burning until the fire was
well underway. Tiredness quickly changed into panic as students then tried to salvage their belongings, but some students lost as
much as $200 worth of property. While no lives were lost, a few students sustained injuries, including one Harold McKeithen,
who jumped from the third story but luckily landed in mud and water.

While students living in a pre-volunteer fire department Davidson valiantly tried to save the building by hauling buckets of water
to extinguish the flames, the supposedly “fireproof” building burnt to the ground in three hours. According to a letter written
by Daniel McGeachy, class of 1921, to his mother, “People saw the glow from the fire in Concord, Charlotte, and
Winston-Salem.” Even as they watched their beloved Chambers burn, students never gave up hope. Instead, they sang “Oh Davidson,” and
after the fire, College President F. Grier Martin vowed, “despite any and all obstacles this present year should be made
the best that Davidson has ever known.” And, in typical Davidson fashion, Martin announced that classes would not be canceled
that day.

Although the cause of the fire was and still is unknown, the fire did seem to break out from Chambers’
cupola. Jan Blodgett, College Archivist and Records Management Coordinator, states that the fire could have arisen from a cigarette, as
the cupola was a popular spot for smoking. While spirits were high after the fire, things looked grim for the
College. According to Davidson’s English Department project “The Burning of Old Chambers,” the 135 displaced students were forced to live
in town or share single rooms with up to three other roommates in other dormitories. Classes were relocated to different
society halls, but a building meant to temporarily house classes was not built until Feb. 1922.

Unfortunately, Chambers’ insurance only covered $100,000 of the building’s worth, and this money was used to build what are today
known as Cannon and Sentelle dorms in order to house former Chambers residents. The Chambers fire also caused a decrease
in attendance, as many students transferred or dropped out of Davidson. While it seems paradoxical, according to Blodgett, the burning
of Chambers ended up saving Davidson College and was a “blessing in disguise.” While the school did experience the aforementioned
setbacks in attendance and lack of space, the fundraising campaign to build a new Chambers revitalized Davidson. Alumni generously gave
to the school, and the administration was excited about building a Chambers that would allow Davidson to be a school
of the 20th century. The old Chambers was expensive to upkeep and the idea of a single building housing classroom
space and dormitories seemed archaic.

In 1929, a new Chambers that would allow Davidson to grow and expand was dedicated. The only remaining sign of
Old Chambers’ existence is the outline of the building in the grass that mysteriously appears on hot days; deemed the
“ghost of Chambers” on college tours. The ghostly outline can be attributed to scientific reasons, but according to Blodgett, even
the ghost has disappeared due to the construction of the Watson Building’s steam pipe. While the Chambers ghost may have
left us, the story of the burning of old Chambers will hopefully continue to be told in order to instill
a sense of appreciation for the new Chambers.
