THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2007 = 10

’Cats fell short but answered important questions
By WILL BRYAN
Sports Editor

Now it is December, and the Wildcats are 3-3. Davidson has seemingly been on a rollercoaster of momentum beginning with
the start of the second half against North Carolina, dipping into despair after losing at Western Michigan, rising up to
new heights with a convincing road conference victory at Appalachian State and then coming to rest somewhere in the middle
with a frustratingly close loss to Duke. The Wildcats have been ranked in the nation’s top 25, dropped out of
the vote-getting altogether and then climbed back into the “also receiving votes” category this past week.

Going into the season, Davidson fans had high expectations for success. The media has projected such things as a Wildcat
appearance in the Sweet Sixteen, and Stephen Curry ’10 has been mentioned in most experts’ list as one of the
best shooting guards in the country. Heading into the second half of the team’s out-of-conference slate, this team still faces
several unanswered questions. I, however, want to pause and point out exactly what we have learned so far in this
topsy-turvy start to the season.

We all knew that Curry was a great talent, but after seeing him against both Duke and North Carolina, I
was convinced that he was the best player on the court both times. Curry was the game’s leading scorer against
North Carolina (24), even though he shot a horrendous 2-12 from three-point land. Against Duke, Curry was hampered by foul
trouble on several dubious charging penalties, yet the sophomore still managed to score 20 points and keep Davidson within striking
distance. Curry even showed his potential for the torrential destruction that could be unleashed on the Southern Conference when he
scored 38 points against Appalachian State. The only thing stopping him in that game was fatigue. Averaging 25 points a
game, Curry ranks sixth nationally.

Although Curry has been unstoppable against opposing defenses, he has not been able to lead Davidson above .500 through these
first six games. We have seen that most of the burden of leadership actually falls on the shoulders of stud
point guard Jason Richards ’08. While no one player or play can ever be totally blamed for any one team
loss, one could easily look to Richards’ poor first half (0-5 FT shooting) against Duke or his uncharacteristic six turnovers
against North Carolina to see that his play could have been the tipping point in the ’Cats’ favor. Heck, Curry
scored 38 points against Appalachian State, and the Wildcats still only won by 11 (Richards went 1-9 from the field).
Although Richards has displayed a few lapses in consistency so far, his hand in leading the team is undeniable.

Men’s Basketball (3-3) (1-0)
11/26 at App. State, Won 71-60
12/1 vs Duke, Lost 73-79
Next up:
12/5 at Charlotte
12/8 at UCLA
Notes: The two times that Davidson moved up in votes for the Top 25 this season were after losses to
UNC and Duke.

Women’s Basketball (4-2) (1-0)
11/29 at Georgia Southern, Won 62-56
12/2 vs. Winthrop, Won 68-63
Next up:
12/6 vs. East Tennessee State
Notes: Annette Watts became the all-time win-Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

ningest coach in Davidson’s women’s basketball with the team’s win on Sunday. Wildcats can be seen from every angle. Richards’
12-point, five-assist effort in the second half against Duke kept the Wildcats close while Curry rode the bench with foul
trouble. Richards’ assist numbers (9.0 per game) are tops in the country by a large margin and his average of
33.5 minutes per game shows how indispensable he is. The Wildcat frontcourt is vastly underrated. While Curry and Richards get
all the press in the national media, the Wildcat frontcourt of Boris Meno ’08, Thomas Sander ’08, Andrew Lovedale ’09,
and Steve Rossiter ’10 have played extremely well thus far. Although fans like to remember a missed dunk here or
there, they often forget the innumerable displays of athleticism that this group has displayed against some of the nation’s top
talents. Last year against Maryland, this group was outscored 36-15 and outrebounded 30-19. The Wildcats had no answer for the
Terps’ interior attack and the final result showed the discrepancy. However, against North Carolina this season, this group held Preseason
Player of the Year Tyler Hansbrough without a field goal for the entire second half. They outscored Duke’s frontcourt 38-19
and they helped give Davidson the edge on the offensive glass. In Southern Conference play, they held Appalachian State’s Jeremy
Clayton and Donte Minter to a combined 11 points and made them turn the ball over seven times. Although they
are mostly undersized in comparison to many BCS teams, this group has shown that they can battle with the best
and come out on top.

Finally, we have learned how far the seriousness of this program has come. There once was a day when Davidson
reveled in the opportunity to play on television and the TV game was always circled on the calendar. This year,
the Wildcats play 15 of their 29 regular season games on TV, with a chance that regional networks might pick
up a few more games during the season. There was also a time when Davidson fans came home and celebrated
losses to Duke and North Carolina when Davidson was within a possession or two in the final minute. Now fans
expect Davidson to beat ACC teams and are unwilling to accept anything less than a victory...as a victory. However, the
expectations of fans extend beyond message boards and water-cooler talk. Over 3,000 fans showed up at Belk Arena on holiday
break to see the Wildcats wallop N.C. Central. Bobcats Arena was filled to its capacity as North Carolina and Duke
fans witnessed a proverbial sea of red nearly overcome the venue with Wildcat cheering. We have learned a lot about
this team and this program in these first few weeks of basketball. The Wildcat players and fans have a remarkable
seriousness of purpose this season, and that has shown through against the traditional powers on a national stage. The Wildcats
still have many questions to answer in this next stretch of schedule, but they have fulfilled many expectations so far.

* ht S hero by Evan Mi

Wrestling
Next up: 12/29-12/30 Southern Scuffle
1/9 Clarion
Notes: Sam O’Hair ’08 and Trebor Clavette ’08 have led the Wildcats so far this season.

Swimming
Women (3-3)
Men (1-4)
Next up: 1/3 at Deerfield Beach Classic
Notes: Wildcats Lindsey Martin ’11 and Scott Frantz ’09 were named CCSA Swimmers of the Week. Jason Richards ’08 leads
the nation in assists with 9.0 per game.
