Tomorrow marks Tom Ross’ 100th day as President of Davidson College. We planned to evaluate his performance thus far, but
his Inauguration speech changed our minds. Ross himself acknowledged that it is too early for him to dictate change because
he is still learning. Along these lines, he declined to outline a detailed plan in favor of offering the broad
concept of “changing to remain the same.” Since among us we’ve been here for over 30 years, we’d like to
offer some specific suggestions for achieving this goal.

In order to maintain the liberal arts tradition of producing well-rounded, well-educated individuals, we may need to add some “practical”
classes—such as business, computer programming, pre-law, journalism, and photography—to the curriculum. As Ross pointed out, technology and a global market
are changing the world, and the well-rounded liberal arts student of the future will need experience in these areas. These
courses, of course, ought to be as academically rigorous as our traditional liberal arts offerings, but any of these subjects
can lend themselves to serious study.

Also, in order to balance out the often abstract nature of the liberal arts education, we think that students ought
to receive course (though not GPA) credit for internships. Again, the liberal arts education is all about well-roundedness, which, in
today’s world especially, requires out-of-the-classroom experience.

In light of increasing globalization, we applaud the College’s attempts to increase language offerings with the new Arabic department and
self-instructional programs in Italian, Japanese, and Korean, but students complain that these programs need to be better organized and receive
more institutional support in order to thrive. It’s one thing to tell prospective students that we offer these languages; it’s
an entirely different matter to teach them.

In order to maintain and increase the College’s focus on service, we think that the school needs to place a
heavier emphasis on hands-on work. Fundraisers are great, and some students do engage in sustained meaningful direct service, but, from
what we’ve seen, this type of service is not nearly so widespread as visible movements like the recent PCC service
day seem to indicate. Some of us have floated the idea of including a service requirement in the school’s graduation
requirements. (Really, the College already requires that we know how to swim.)

But now let’s talk about a few things that need to change in order to change. In some cases, after
all, the way things have always been is outdated. For example, the College has made strides toward increasing student diversity,
but we would like to see faculty diversity increase. So, too, would we like to see more racial, ethnic, and
socioeconomic diversity among students. Lastly, we would like to see the College’s long-time requirement that the President be a Presbyterian
removed.

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor-in-Chief
Summerlee Walter

Managing Editor
Pierce Trumbo

News Editors
Curran, Monica Jamouneau & Chris Moore

Perspectives Editors
Katie Miller & Laura Van Oudenaren

Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Errington & Mike Wellman

Yowl Editors
Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian

Sports Editors
Will Bryan & Patrick McArdle

Photography Editor
Ben Elinor

Business, Advertising, and Circulation Managers
Robbie Squibb, Karen VanderMolen & Halley Brantley

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to:
The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182,
Davidson, NC 28035-7182.
E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu.
Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or
commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2007

Community votes Dance Ensemble a success

To whom it may concern,

Namaste! and Greetings! May this find all in the best of health and spirits. On Friday, Nov 2, I had
the pleasure of attending the performance by the Dance Ensemble in the Duke Family Performance Hall. Not only was I
impressed with all aspects of the perform-

Campus Health Center

As a long-time reader of The Davidsonian and as Medical Director of the Student Health Center, I was disappointed to
read last week’s article “Health Center a threat to student health.” In his guest commentary, the student writer begins with
a discussion of the professional wrestler Chris Benoit and diverges into a critical one-sided version of two recent visits to
the Health Center. Please understand that medical privacy laws (HIPAA) prevent my discussion of specific details of the student’s case.
However, I would like to reassure students about the quality of care received here at the Health Center. The dedicated
R.N.’s and board-certified physicians (two of whom are Davidson College alumni) strive to treat our students in a timely, compassionate,
and professional manner. Many of us are ourselves parents of college-aged children.children and deliver medical care as if the student
were a member of our own family. The behavior of a number of students in the audience provided entertainment in
itself as well as showing support for the students on the stage. Again, I had a great time and shall
bring my wife with me next time.

Shakti G. Subramanian

Open to student needs

With over 6,000 student visits each year, we encourage students to come see us. If a student is not improving
medically, we always encourage repeat visits, open communication, referrals to appropriate specialists, and would never discourage a return visit. We
are available 24 hours a day to assist in all of your health care needs.

Craig White, M.D. ‘82

Clinton's identity trumps campaign policy

According to virtually every measurement, the 2008 election is shaping up extremely well for Democrats. In national polls, state-by-state polls
and analyses of individual House and Senate races, it is clear that, unless something massive happens between now and 2008,
the Democratic nominee will be our next president and will enjoy friendly majorities in both houses of Congress. Depending on
how this race plays out, 2008 just might be the kind of election that changes the game; it may alter
the way we approach our politics and policy. Considering how well our existing methods are working, that could be a
tremendously good thing. It also means that Liberals need to think clearly about who we nominate. The trouble is that
we are overlooking real and troubling differences among the candidates.

Hillary Clinton is such a liberal icon, such a massive target of conservative attacks, that moderate or conservative policies have
no chance of breaking through this perception.

The Webster Doctrine
ZEKE WEBSTER

To their credit, the Democratic contenders for President form a very impressive field. Compared to the 2004 election or to
this cycle’s field of flawed Republicans, the major Democratic candidates can all marshal powerful arguments for their candidacies, and it
is no surprise that they have enjoyed many donations and much support and enthusiasm. On domestic policy, the shifts from
2000 or 2004 to now are almost unbelievable; Edwards, Obama and Clinton have all come out with smart, plausible and
ambitious universal health care plans, along with a number of other impressive proposals. The race starts to break down when
it comes to foreign policy.

Now, evaluating a candidate’s foreign policy is always difficult. Because we cannot know what the world will look like in
January 2009, figuring out a candidate’s future policy involves guesswork and vague or hypothetical questions regarding a candidate’s judgment, worldview
and potential advisors. This uncertainty masks real differences between the candidates. For example, there have been a number of signs
that Hillary Clinton is the most hawkish candidate. Clinton insists that she will leave an unspecified number of troops in
Iraq to continue counterterrorism efforts and training missions. She also voted for the Kyl-Lieberman Senate Resolution that strengthens the hands
of advocates for war against Iran and sniped at Obama over his categorical refusal to use nuclear weapons against terrorist
camps and his willingness to hold high-level talks with Iran, Syria and other distasteful regimes. If Clinton is nominated, goes
on to win the election and continues this war, Democrats will have only themselves to blame. Clinton also, of course,
voted for the Iraq war in 2002 and refuses to consider that vote a mistake. There is a reason that
arch-neoconservatives like Charles Krauthammer have cautiously endorsed Hillary in the Democratic race. Given that Clinton fairly clearly promises to continue
some kind of military intervention in Iraq in the indefinite future, her continued overwhelming popularity within a Democratic party that
is vehemently and rightly against the Iraq War is baffling.

The reason for this, I think, is that Democratic primary voters are making a facile assumption about Clinton. Thanks to
the scandals and the obsessions of the 1990s, everybody knows that Hillary Clinton is some kind of arch-liberal. Indeed, her
identity is so firmly established that the actual policies that Clinton supports are irrelevant for most people. Hillary Clinton is
such a liberal icon, such a massive target of conservative attacks, that moderate or conservative policies have no chance of
breaking through this perception. It’s enough if Clinton simply says that she opposes the war, despite any number of qualifications
and conditions. After all, since Hillary Clinton is such a liberal, of course she’ll surely get us out of Iraq.
Indeed, Clinton used this identity, not her actual record, in last Tuesday’s debate. When Obama attacked her from the left
on foreign policy, her response was “Well, I don’t think the Republicans got the message that I’m voting and sounding
like them.” The trouble is that the Republicans are wrong and Democratic voters, it seems, are too. The real differences
between Clinton and most Democrats center on the war. If Clinton receives the nomination, wins the election and continues the
war, Democrats will have only themselves to blame.

Zeke Webster ’09 is a Political Science major from Clemmons, N.C. Contact him at zewebster@davidson.edu.
