DAVIDSON COLLEGE
“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2007
FIRST CLASS: U.S. POSTAGE PAID
PERMIT #1
DAVIDSON, NC
VOLUME 99, NUMBER 8

Davidson College hosts town mayoral debate
By ALISSA CURRAN
News Editor

In a debate sponsored by The Davidsonian and the Student Government Association (SGA), the town of Davidson’s mayoral candidates wrangled
over controversial issues on Monday night in the Sprinkle Room. The debate attracted approximately 45 students, faculty, and Davidson town
residents. Bill Jackson (’57)’s platform centers on his staunch anti-development stance. His slogan, “Keep Davidson Special,” echoes his belief that
small-town values are being forgotten in the midst of the heavy commercial and residential development occurring in town. John Woods,
the other mayoral candidate, has served as a Town Board Commissioner for 10 years and as the mayor pro-tem for
six years.

Tom Ross receives the College Mace after taking the Oath of Office during Inauguration on Sunday.

Woods played an active part in planning much of the development taking place in town and said that he is
committed to making Davidson a self-sustaining community while maintaining its small-town charm. Each candidate delivered a three-minute opening statement, one
question specific to an individual candidate, a series of 11 questions given to both candidates, a time in which the
public could question the candidates, and a three-minute closing statement.

Jackson opened the debate by stating his contempt for the decisions that the Town Board has made with regard to
development and its negative effects on the community. “The truth of the matter is that major commercial development undermines improvements
for us—it brings traffic, pollution, and noise,” Jackson said. “Commercialism comes to whose benefit?” Conversely, Woods said that he believes
that the development is paramount to the town’s economic viability. In his opening statement, Woods introduced an agenda for 2008,
“[The agenda] honors the past, acknowledges the present, and plans for the future,” Woods said. The agenda includes making the
town friendly for pedestrians, finding ways to overcome the town’s dependency on a residential tax base, and focusing on nurturing
a mutually supportive and cordial relationship between Davidson College and the Town of Davidson.

Throughout the debate, Woods and Jackson locked horns over the issue of development and its future in town. Jackson expressed
his disappointment with the administrative aspect of town development in lieu of the projected population growth, especially with town planner
Kris Krider. “[The population increase] is what Kris Krider predicts because that’s what Kris Krider wants....He is an ambitious urban
planner, and planners fill out their resumes by transforming towns,” Jackson said.

Regarding the town’s land ordinance, the candidates disagreed about its efficacy. “We continue to tweak and tighten the ordinance, and
it’s very strict with developers....If you’re going to develop in Davidson, you’re going to do it our way,” Woods said.
Jackson, for his part, challenged Woods’s claim that the ordinance is unconditionally imposed on developers. “When [Woods] says tweaking, he
means loosening,” Jackson said. “It’s a pretty low standard you’re setting if you’re saying we’re doing better than Huntersville and
Mooresville.”

The question of the commuter rail running through or ending in Davidson also proved controversial between the candidates. While the
commuter rail would aid in decreasing traffic congestion in Davidson itself and on I-77, it may also force an influx
of residential development and parking garages behind South Main Street. Woods supports the construction of a commuter rail running through
Davidson,seeing it as a way to provide “transportation alternatives” to residents. “We are extremely tied to our vehicles; we need
to learn to use cars less,” Woods said. Woods also stands strongly behind the transportation tax currently in place.

See Debate, page 2

Davidson community welcomes President Ross

SUMMERLEE WALTER
Editor-in-Chief

Davidson officially welcomed its 17th president Tom Ross and his wife, Susan, this Sunday as students, faculty, staff, administrators, townspeople,
and representatives from other colleges saluted them during the Inauguration and Fall Convocation ceremony. Rain forced the ceremony from the
lawn into John M. Belk Arena inside Baker Sports Complex.

After an invocation, welcoming remarks from Chair of the Board of Trustees John F. McCartney, and the reading of Psalm
100, delegates from various constituencies greeted the Rosses. Mayor Randall Kincaid represented the Town of Davidson, President of North Carolina
Independent Colleges & Universities A. Hope Williams represented other colleges and universities, Raymond L. Swetenburg ’72 represented the alumni, George
Kelly represented the parents, Professor of Religion William Mahony represented the faculty, Julie Memrick represented the staff, and Student Government
Association President Chris Burton ’08 represented the students.

After the greetings, former presidents Bobby Vagt and Sam Spencer presented Ross for inauguration while Burton walked Susan to the
podium. McCartney administered the oath to Ross and then presented him with the College Mace. Ross then addressed the crowd.

“Today is day 88,” he said. “As I have told some of you, I count the days so that each
and every day I remember how blessed I am and how special it is for me to be a part
of Davidson College. I am also counting because I worry there is a 90-day probationary period and I want to
at least try and survive until that period passes. Monday could be a big day for me.”

After recognizing the accomplishments of his predecessors Spencer, John Kuykendall, and Vagt, Ross continued by outlining his plans for his
time at Davidson. He emphasized that Davidson will change, regardless of who leads, and that the College’s challenge is to
preserve tradition while guiding change.

“Whatever I do as your new president, there will be changes,” he said. “Change happens whether we want it or
not, and it happens whether we plan for it or not.... For me the real question is not, what am
I going to try to change? No, the real question is how can Davidson College embrace the changes that will
occur while remaining the same?”

He emphasized the need to maintain Davidson’s traditional values of “teaching and learning, honor and integrity, faith and reason, and
service and leadership” while addressing the challenges that international competition, population growth in North Carolina and Mecklenburg County, and increasing
diversity pose.

After Ross ended his remarks, the regular Fall Convocation activities commenced with the presentation of the Boswell Family Faculty Fellowship,
the Thomas Jefferson Award, the Alumni Association Award, and the Goodwin-Exxon Awards. Professor of Physics Daniel M.

See Inauguration, page 3

Meet the Watson Finalists

By Monica JAMOUNEAU
News Editor

The Thomas J. Watson Foundation provides 60 graduates from 50 participating colleges a stipend of $25,000 to travel the world
while studying a topic of their choosing. Earlier this month, Davidson nominated four seniors for the Watson Fellowship:

William High ’08
Major: English
Hometown: Atlanta, GA
Extracurriculars: Davidson Outdoors, Libertas
Proposal: The Sweetest Symbol: Traditional Beekeeping and Honey
Countries to visit: Mexico, Malaysia, Greece, Gambia, and Poland
Why he loves his proposal: It is a way of connecting with my father and grandfather, who keep bees. We
lost a hive [to colony collapse]. And [honey] is tasty.
If he could have a superpower: Instead of walking, I’d like to do cartwheels everywhere I go.

Grant Kyle ’08
Major: Art History
Hometown: Weedsport, NY
Extracurriculars: Crew
Proposal: Back to the Roots: Indigenous Architecture and Environmental Sustainability
Countries to visit: Yucatan (Mexico), Bolivia, Mali, Finland, Kazakhstan, China, and Brunei
Why he loves his proposal: I wanted to get into development, and I saw a large gap between

See Watson, page 3
