2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Alternative Gift Fair
By Monica JAMOUNEAU
News Editor

On Sunday afternoon from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m., Sanctuary Fellowship and the Chaplain’s Office sponsored the Alternative Gift Fair in the Brown Atrium of the Union. The Alternative Gift Fair is an opportunity for students, faculty, staff, and community members to simultaneously shop for Christmas presents and donate to charity. Organizing the fair is Alternative Gifts International (AGI), a non-profit organization that attempts to help people, animals, and environments threatened and affected by crises all over the world. Examples of gifts include food for American families suffering from hunger, tree planting in Haiti, refrigeration units in Peru, scholarships for nomadic children in Kenya, and legal counseling for women in Lebanon who could not otherwise afford the support they deserve.

Three student groups offered alternative gifts at separate tables, including Building Tomorrow, First Book, and HAMMERS. Over 50 non-profit organizations outside of Davidson’s student groups contributed gifts to the fair as well. Davidson students staffed the tables around the Atrium, representing organizations on Patterson Court, Dean Rusk, and other groups on campus. Buyers at the fair could buy suggested gift amounts (for example, seven dollars feeds one starving American for one day), or they could donate any other amount they chose.

“I love going to the Alternative Gift Fair,”

12/02 3:30 p.m. Assault
12/04 2 p.m.-4:26 p.m. Larceny
12/04 1 p.m.-5:25 p.m. Larceny
12/08 12:25 p.m.-5:55 p.m. Injury to Real Property
12/06 1:12 a.m. Intoxicated student
Public Safety received a call on the duty cell phone at 1:12 a.m. Thursday morning in reference to an intoxicated female student. Two officers responded to Akers Dormitory and observed a female student to be heavily intoxicated and lying on her bed. One of the officers observed that the student was unresponsive at times and unable to make eye contact with anyone in the room. The medics were advised of the situation and transported the student to Lake Norman Hospital.

12/08 1:01 a.m. Intoxicated student
Public Safety received a call on the officer cell phone from a worker at the Outpost on Patterson Court, who told the officers that a young lady had fallen inside the Outpost, and she wanted to make sure she was all right. Upon arrival, the officer spoke with the worker, who told him that the subject was unable to stand on her own and that her friends had to help her walk. The worker then said that the subject fell and hit her head on the push bar at the door closest to the counter. The young lady was asked to leave due to safety reasons. The officer spoke with the subject, who was very intoxicated, and she advised that she was fine. When the officer told her that she had to leave, she became upset and asked why. The officer informed her that because she was so intoxicated and unstable on her feet, she was a hazard to herself and others at the Outpost. She was then escorted to her dorm by friends.

12/08 11:23 p.m. Trespassing
On Saturday night, two officers were dispatched to investigate an occupied suspicious vehicle that had pulled onto college property at the Lake Campus. Upon arriving, the responding officers observed an empty silver Nissan with a North Carolina license plate parked in the lot. After canvassing the rest of the lake campus, the driver of the vehicle and four other subjects were found trespassing on the property. All subjects involved were students of Davidson College. The students stated that although the lake campus gate was closed, they did not realize they would not be allowed on the property after dark. The students involved appeared sober and no alcoholic beverages were found at the scene. They were very cooperative and left the property immediately when asked.

Katherine Hester ’08 said, “because it helps inform me about current issues of poverty and suffering in the world—which can be a bit overwhelming and perhaps depressing—yet, there are also so many creative solutions to these problems that are possible—which brings me hope!” Those who bought gifts at the fair received a card to give to the person for whom they donated the money. The card provides the recipient with information about the gift. AGIsays that its gifts are three-fold: joy to the donor, global awareness and education to the recipient of the gift card, and great benefit to people living in poverty. Harriet C. Pritchard, president of AGI, has dedicated her life to the non-profit world, preferring to give people a “hand-up” rather than a “hand-out.” “Hope is believing in spite of the evidence, and watching the evidence change,” she said. “I like how the Alternative Gift Fair tells you how much money is needed to fund a specific project,” Hester said, “like, it might only take $30 to pay for one woman’s share of a bicycle, and having access to transportation could totally change her life! I would most likely pay $30 or so on a nice gift for someone I love, but perhaps one that they really don’t need, or would sit on a shelf somewhere and not receive much use. But Alternative Gifts are both meaningful to the person you give them to, as well as meaningful to someone else who is in need.” If you missed Sunday’s fair but would still like to donate to AGI, go online to www.altgifts.org or call 1-800-842-2243.

Amber Townsend, “Mrs. Claus,” dangles from Chambers during Davidson’s Christmas party. Both Townsend and Mr. Claus made it to the ground safely.

Santa descends from Chambers
By NINA MACE
Staff Writer

Hundreds of students gathered on Chambers north lawn Monday at 9 p.m. for the annual campus-wide Christmas party. This year, students enjoyed 63-degree weather in shorts and flip-flops, rather than the usual coats and scarves. As students arrived, Union Board members handed them green glow sticks rather than the candles typically used in the event. Due to the drought, open flames are not allowed, so party organizers had to get creative. Even the candles in the luminaries were plastic.

Before the program began, students milled about, drinking hot chocolate and hot cider and eating chocolate chip, macadamia nut, and oatmeal raisin cookies provided by Dining Services. Students had a variety of reasons for attending. “It’s a great study break,” Harriet King ’11 said, “and a festive way to see people outside of the library.” Abi Johnson ’10 marveled at the warm weather. “I came because I can stand outside in December and celebrate Christmas in shorts,” Johnson said. Carolyn Bryan ’11 attended for reasons beyond the cookies and hot cocoa. “I wanted to come,” Bryan said, “because Santa’s rappelling!”

After a few minutes of socializing, the festivities began with Christmas carols led by Davidson choir members, beginning with favorites like “Frosty the Snowman” and “Jingle Bells.” During the caroling, Union Board members passed out boxes of bells, many of which turned up in the library later that night. Then came the part for which many students had been waiting. Howell Burke ’09 played “Santa” and Amber Townsend ’10 played “Mrs. Claus,” who appeared on the roof of Chambers for the main event of the evening. The tradition, started by former president Bobby Vagt, was in previous years held in the Union’s Brown Atrium because winter weather forced it inside. No such problem existed on Monday night.

To the delight of his audience, Santa rappelled down the front of Chambers, having a little trouble staying away from one of the trees, but waving merrily nevertheless. Mrs. Claus followed him, and then the two rode around the circle of students in a golf cart, throwing candy into the crowd. Afterwards, College read the story of Christmas from the Gospel of Luke. The party ended with everyone singing more traditional carols, including “Come All Ye Faithful” and “Joy to the World.” While students sang “Silent Night,” both trees in front of Chambers lit up, to which students cheered in approval. The party ended to the tune of “We Wish You a Merry Christmas.” Some students enjoyed more cookies and socializing in the warm weather, while others went back inside Chambers and the library to resume studying.