THE NO NAME ISSUE 5 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2007

Miami Dolphins SEE PAGE 8

ITS rents out cots to students in Belk Computer Lab SEE PAGE 4

FYI: Adam Morrison loves Metallica.

December 5, 2007 The Davidsonian

Couple Celebrates Two-Week Anniversary

After half a month of Chemistry study sessions, Mickie and Mooch dinners, and one furtive foray into the realm of
third-base, Davidson juniors Mike Vedder and Julie Swanson celebrated their second anniversary with an exchange of aluminum foil gifts.

Mall Santa refuses to grant wishes, teaches children lesson in thrift and humility SEE PAGE 7

Five-cent mustard and seven-cent straw compete with 15-cent cup of water for sales at Union Cafe

No one on the hall can believe Mike and Julie’s commitment, which has lasted over a fortnight. SEE PAGE 2

Instilling his present with the care and devotion of a more seasoned anniversary man, Mike bestowed upon his maiden a
pair of snowflake pendant earrings of touching resemblance to Tiffany’s $3,500 platinum version. Julie, after extensive window-shopping at Southpark Mall,
fashioned Mike an aluminum belt buckle adorned with an attempted monogram. In the end, the force of her fingernail sliced
through the aluminum, but Mike said that he loved her anyway.

“We’re not pretentious. We just like to act a lot older than we are and think we’re better because of
it.” - Julie Swanson ‘09

Just last week the couple delighted fellow Third Belk residents by announcing their one-week, papier-mâché anniversary. They are but two
weeks away from the coveted, rarely-attained mica anniversary. When one hallmate accused her of being pretentious, Julia responded with a
look of noncomprehension, then said, “We just like to pretend that we’re a lot older than we are, and act
really serious about it and know that we’re better than other couples because of our maturity.” Mike chimed in, “These
tin and aluminum gifts represent the solidity of our relationship. It’s pretty unique.”

The couple is heartset on planning a commitment to the obligation of avowing the promise of one day becoming engaged.
A date has not yet been set.

EDITORIAL

There’s no Manly Way to Put on My Damn Chapstick

Picture of the Week Dave Philips

So, my lips are parched, hungering for a little balmy relief, but I can’t provide it. They beseech me, “Please
give us that 7.5% octyl methoxycinnamate, 3.5% oxybenzone, and most importantly that hearty 40.7% white petrolatum that slakes the pain.”

Everyone knows Chapstick is the Gatorade of lip care.But I regret to inform you that I, along with every other
lip-possessing male in this world, am helpless in the field of lip nourishment. Yes, you, the casual observer, notice I'm
holding a Chapstick™ brand lip moisturizer with SPF 15 sun protection. I’m holding the weapon; I just have to fire,
right? You wonder, “Why Dave, why don't you just provide relief to that arid wasteland that you call your lips?”
Well, casual observer, quite simply, there’s just no manly way to put on my damn chapstick. I've tried the discrete
between the index and thumb finger technique, leaving out the middle finger so as to not imitate the act of
applying lipstick. I’ve given lip balm a chance, but all that dabbing and applying just made me feel like I
was putting on makeup. I even bought one of those huge glue-stick-size chapsticks, so the size would accurately represent my
ego. Heck, I even used a real glue stick one time just because I’m manly and daring like that.

But nothing changes the fact that I always look and feel like a helpless schoolgirl when putting the stuff on
my lips. For Christ’s sake people, 90% of the time the flavor is mango tango or something like that. I
can’t be taken seriously holding anything that is flavored mango tango. When you put a fruit-dance combination on your lips,
you are subtly asking to get punched in the face. So fellas, in my opinion, just get used to that
barren desert around your mouth because I, Dave Philips, know for a fact, there’s just no manly way to put
on chapstick.

---

CHICAGO SKYLINE

Boxer Knocks Out Frogmanhenry

After nearly seven months of silence and exile, disgraced Microsoft Outlook Web Access host Frogmanhenry has finally spoken with campus
media. The former URL prefix, currently allowing off-campus e-mail access to students at Wake Forest University, could only stand and
watch this past summer as Davidson administrators elected not to renew his contract and instead sign up-and-coming internet hotshot Boxer
to a three-year deal. In an exclusive interview last week, Frogman enlightened the Yowl’s team of investigative reporters with the
details of his termination. “There’s what they told you, and then there’s the truth,” the ex-server from his new home
in Winston-Salem said. “If you think I got canned simply because of my web skills, you’re kidding yourself.” According to
Frogmanhenry, school officials caught wind of a steamy relationship between him and web counterpart Shirley, which, unbeknownst to either party,
violated a college nepotism policy. Shirley, unhelpful to anyone last week, could not be reached for comment, though her close
friend Louise had this to say: “Louise is not accessible. Access is denied.” Kinky.

Despite Frogman’s accusations, the College's ITS director, Blair Butane, stood by her decision: “It’s simple. Frogmanhenry provided Davidson with years
of dedicated service, but when it came down to dollars and cents, Boxer was the obvious choice. And besides, Frogmanhenry
is just a &$#@!$% weird name.”
