4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2007

Staley, from page 3

He challenged communities to practice radical hospitality.

“Church is about picking people up, dusting them off and kissing their bruised knees before sending them out into the
world to try it again,” he said.

Ufford-Chase concluded by offering some practical advice for movement building.

He spoke extensively about community-based organizations that achieve change by promoting the principles underlying their communities.

“Church is about picking people up, dusting them off and kissing their bruised knees before sending them out into the
world to try it again.”
--Rick Ufford-Chase, Staley lecturer

Drawing from the wisdom of Quaker and rancher Jim Corbit, Ufford-Chase outlined criteria for healthy community-based organizations, emphasizing the need
for such organizations to be volunteer-based and germane to those on the margins of society.

He cautioned against the growing tendency to rely on volunteerism as a livelihood and decried the fact that some American
ministers make up to $200,000 per year.

“We’ve overdeveloped the idea of making a living out of helping people,” he said.

Ending on a positive note, he emphasized again the importance of community.

“Individuals can exist in justice,” Ufford-Chase said, “but it takes communities to do justice.”

Ufford-Chase is a co-founder of Borderlinks, an organization that works with migrants on the US-Mexico border.

Sail into the sunset with Sea Expedition Association

By Tim Cohen
Staff Writer

A relatively unknown study abroad program called SEA held an information session in the College Union last Thursday.

The SEA Semester Program is a 12-week program, sponsored by the National Science Foundation.

The program encompasses a six-week stay on Cape Cod in Woods Hole, Massachusetts and a six-week sailing tour in either
the Atlantic or Pacific Ocean.

The SEA Semester Program offers six sessions per year for undergraduate college students, high school students and adults.

SEA takes a different approach from other “semesters at sea,” which focus on the various ports of call, by devoting
all of its attention to the ocean.

The program offers courses in oceanography, nautical science and maritime studies, and professors with doctorates in nautical engineering, oceanography and
history teach the courses.

In the oceanography courses, students concentrate on the biological, chemical and geological elements of the seas.

During the nautical science classes, students study meteorology, ship handling, celestial navigation, coastal piloting and ship construction.

Most of the oceanography and nautical science classes are taught during the students’ time at sea. The maritime studies classes,
most of which are held during the six-week land portion, discuss the history, literature and culture of the ocean.

During the first six weeks, students stay at the SEA Semester Program campus, where they reside in 10-person houses, learning
how to live in close proximity with their future crewmates.

While on land, students attend seminars and guest lectures at the Woods Hole campus and other research facilities on Cape
Cod.

Most importantly, students learn theories of sailing and navigation that prepare them for their voyage.

After the first six weeks, the program splits between the Pacific and Atlantic expeditions.

The Pacific voyage travels to such places as Puerto Vallarta, Tahiti, Hawaii and Alaska.

The Atlantic cruise travels to the Caribbean Sea, visiting the Dominican Republic, Jamaica and the Florida Keys.

Each of the sea cruises takes place on 134 ft. Brigantine sailing vessels owned by SEA. The vessels, equipped with
a vast array of research equipment, are the most advanced oceanographic sailing vessels in the world.

Assistant Dean of Admissions of the SEA Program Peter Petrone describes the voyage as a “21st century learning platform...with a
19th century sailing experience.”

Kyle Sherman ’08 attended the program last fall, calling it the “best thing [he] has ever done in [his] college
career.”

Sherman, a biology major, explained the SEA semester reminded him a lot of Davidson and that he believes it would
be the perfect place for Davidson students. While the oceanographic research fascinated him the most, he believes the program would
interest students from all majors.

Many of his peers on the program were creative writing, economics and political science majors.

Perhaps most importantly, Sherman emphasized the unique and lasting friendships that he made during the trip and stated that his
group is planning a reunion for next summer.

For further information about the program, access their website at www.sea.edu.

courtesy: photo

THE DEGREE YOU NEED FOR THE JOB YOU WANT.
