THE DAVIDSONIAN

Natsios spoke about his work in Afghanistan following the terrorist attacks of 9/11.

Natsios, from page 1

and they include politically and otherwise unstable countries, such as Somalia. The spaces are categorized based upon certain characteristics that our defense program has deemed to be dangerous to the United States and the rest of the world. One of the specifications is that the “ungoverned spaces” must have wide-ranging and influential terrorist networks. Bin Laden, Natsios said, had this type of structure in Somalia, Sudan, and Afghanistan, and because of this base Al Qaeda was able to pull off the large-scale destruction of 9/11.

Another characteristic that these unstable areas share is a penchant for human trafficking. In some cases, Natsios said, organ harvesting occurs on young children, and often the stolen organs are used to provide transplants for children in the West. Widespread money laundering and illicit arms or arms black markets are additional characteristics of ungoverned spaces, Natsios said.

He also discussed the connection between development and defense and the ways in which the Pentagon is dealing with the increased attention to “stability operations,” its phrase for development. Having American or U.N. troops enforce development is both good and bad, he observed. Some countries are treated not necessarily as ungoverned spaces but as failed states. Often, they fail because they have had debilitating political or natural disasters and, despite international aid flowing into these areas, they have continued to struggle. In these cases, there have also been macroeconomic collapses, and the population has been forced into camps, as in the case of Sudan. In failed states, there is food insecurity and death from starvation, resulting in disease epidemics. The rule of law and all government authority also collapses. With the rise of warlordism in these areas, civil conflict and human rights abuses are abundant, with no monopoly on the use of force, as in stable states.

“So how do we approach these emergencies?” Natsios asked. “Nation building is an art,” he said, “not an exact science with predictable results.” Above all else, the time factor must be long-term, he urged. Ten to 15 years must lapse before a problem can reasonably be solved. “Americans are by nature remarkably impatient,” he said. One danger with having the State Department and the Pentagon involved in development, he added, is that both of them work on a far too short-term basis. “A weakness of American democracy is that it fails to look into the future,” Natsios said. And, although there is a direct link between U.S. foreign aid to a specific state and that state’s improvement, there is still a question of which interventions work and which do not. Political science, he said, is a “soft science,” while history is a far better subject to study in order to understand how to assist failing states.

Natsios acknowledged that, in the world of development specialists, there is a fear that with a new president, the aid budget may decrease. He is proud of some of his accomplishments at USAID, but he also wishes he would have known then what he knows now. Among his successes was a completed 700 km road through a dangerous part of Afghanistan that he later realized was originally the path that Alexander the Great took over two millennia ago. During the road building, which took place post-9/11, USAID workers were considered bigger “targets of glory” than CIA agents, meaning that the terrorist threat on their lives was extremely high. He came to understand while he was in the Middle East that America is a well-known place, even to young children. He told his audience that it is essential for the United States to understand the influence it has internationally. “The hope,” Natsios said, “is that [Americans] will recognize that state-building is in the best interest of the United States.”

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Editor-in-Chief

On Tom Ross’s 100th day as President, senators had the opportunity to ask him questions about the environment, academics, the no-loans policy, and fundraising at last Thursday’s Student Government Association (SGA) meeting. Katie Hunter ’08 questioned Ross closely about the steps that the College is taking to address environmental issues. In response, Ross explained that, in addition to the College’s water conservation efforts, the buildings and grounds staffs will investigate alternative energy sources during an energy audit sometime next year.

“I thought it was a great conversation and a great opportunity for students to have a face-to-face with Tom Ross, to meet him as a person and not an agent of change... I think it was a step in the right direction.” --Chris Burton ’08, President of SGA

For example, the College will look into installing solar-powered emergency towers and lighting on the cross-country trails. Additionally, all College buildings con-Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

...structed in the future will be LEED-certified, and all new College vehicles, with the exception of some of the larger trucks, will be at least a hybrid. When asked why College officials are not taking a more active role in changing students’ environmental behavior, Ross reminded the senators that College students are adults. “There’s not much else we can do, and I think a lot of it is personal responsibility,” he said.

Ross also talked about academics, specifically the foreign language departments. He pointed out that, while departments like French and Spanish have tenured faculty members, student interest is shifting to languages like Arabic and Chinese. Ross talked about shifting tenured positions to the latter departments. He also talked about working out a system to allow students to receive credit for internships.

Jordan Wall ’10 asked Ross about rumors that the new no-loans policy had actually increased some students’ debt because their loans were not replaced with grants. Davidson is one of the first colleges in the nation to make this type of financial aid available to its students. Ross reassured the senators that no such gaps should exist and said that, if any students believe that this happened to them, they need to check with the Financial Aid Office because something probably changed in their financial profiles.

When the subject of fundraising came up, Ross explained that, in addition to the $70 million needed to fund the current no-loans policy, the College also needs funds to renovate the library, the Martin chemistry building, and some dormitories. Ross also acknowledged the need for more scholarship dollars and an expansion of the no-loans policy. When questioned about his fundraising abilities, Ross pointed out that, historically, each president has raised more than his predecessor.

Ross asked the senators some questions, too. He wanted to hear from them what students think he is doing and not doing well. Blake Poole ’08 told Ross that students do not see him around campus as frequently as they saw former president Bobby Vagt. Poole said, for example, that the president usually attends an SGA meeting earlier in the semester.

Ross wasn’t all seriousness throughout the meeting, though. When asked to describe what had changed at the College since his student years, he joked that Bob McKillop needs to get his act together because the men’s basketball team slipped from five to 32 in the national rankings. “I thought it was a great conversation,” Burton said, “and a great opportunity for students to have a face-to-face with Tom Ross, to meet him as a person and not an agent of change... I think it was a step in the right direction.”

Kelly brings fresh approach to race and education
By JORDAN WALL
Senior Staff Writer

Hilton Kelly, a specialist in the sociology of education and African-American culture, is the newest member of Davidson’s Education Department. A native of Sharpsburg, N.C., Kelly described his arrival to campus as “coming home,” after spending several years studying and teaching outside of the South. Kelly received his B.A. in history at UNC-Charlotte. He then undertook his doctoral studies in sociology at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and wrote his dissertation at Denison University in Ohio.

Kelly currently teaches “Growing Up Jim Crow,” a W-course, and “Reading, ‘Riting and Race,” both of which relate to his dissertation that concerns the underappreciated influence of education during the segregation-era. Darrell Scott ’10, a student in “Reading, ‘Riting and Race,” described the class’ texts as “so applicable to my life. Everything I read I know I’m going to use.” Kelly stresses the importance of each work in the process of constructing various perspectives about events, rather than literal interpretations. The books’ conflicting perspectives on the segregation-era offer students a broader understanding of the material.

Kelly engages the students with race and education in meaningful ways, such as field work in the Town of Davidson. “I want to take them out there to the playground and have them see how race plays out,” Kelly said. Scott already feels the impact that Kelly’s diverse method of teaching has had upon his course. “He brought the author of a book we were reading to class,” Scott said. The class was then able to question the author and even discuss their opinions of the book.

After teaching at Amherst, another small town, Davidson feels like a “dream job.” Here he engages his students as colleagues rather than pupils and hopes to teach future courses in the sociology of education, critical race theory, and social culture and equality. “I’m here for the long-haul,” Kelly said. Next semester Kelly will teach “Social Diversity in Education,” “Organization for Teaching,” and “Internship in Teaching.”

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2007 | 3