4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Alumni revisited the stomping grounds of their youth, as they flocked back to Davidson College for the week of Homecoming and its accompanying festivities.

Alumni, from page 1

Jacksonville. “I think the transition at dental school was easy in a way,” she said on Saturday, “because although it was at a big university, it was a smaller class with only 75 people. So I liked the transition into another smaller environment. But once you leave Davidson, the friends are different, the people are different, and I think you get used to Davidson and how great it is and how all your best friends are right here with you. I think it was an easy transition, because we’re so well prepared. But you’re used to seeing all your friends.”

Her sister, Jacquelin Ortega ’02, is living in Miami as an assistant state attorney. “I went straight to law school,” she said, “so I didn’t interrupt the flow. It was fun.”

Doug Neumann ’97, a former physics major, was in town this weekend for his 10th year reunion. “I actually did the 3-2 program,” he said, “so I was at Davidson for three years studying science then went to [Washington University in] St. Louis, Missouri, and did two years of computer science then came back to get my diploma at Davidson. [Davidson] is the one that matters—the [diploma] from Washington University I don’t really pay attention to.” He continued, “I got out of school in ’98 and the dot com boom was going. It was a great time to get out of college with a computer science degree. So that went well. The combination of my Davidson degree and engineering was a very good background.”

Neumann now builds software for Microsoft and lives outside of Raleigh. “I did a start-up with a bunch of Davidson people up in Boston, then Louisiana; and even that survived the dot com bust. I left that four years ago, and they were still going last time I checked.”

Neumann admitted that he was pleasantly surprised by the number of students who returned for the reunion. “On the list I counted like 120 people or so, that’s like a third of the class it seems. This is our second reunion but I skipped the first one.” He said that there seemed to be more buildings on campus than the last time he was here. “There’s this huge thing on the back of Chambers that wasn’t there,” Neumann said. “The football stadium looks very different. There used to be stands on both sides of the field, [but] now they’re just on one side. The campus is still absolutely beautiful. It makes me wish I came back here more often. And the basketball is much better than when I was here. I watch them any time I can. And so I’m looking forward to this season.”

Berna Demiralp ’97, a former economics major, did not have a traumatic transition from Davidson to the real world either, immediately starting work after graduation as an associate economist at Research Triangle Institute in the Raleigh-Durham area. Demiralp said that the Davidson education definitely equipped her to find a job. “I can’t name a favorite [professor], but I can tell you I had remarkable classes—I went on to get my Ph.D. in Economics, and Clark Ross’ Labor Economics class is one of the reasons I’m standing here as a Labor Economist. Peter Hess’ Introduction to Economics is why I became an Econ major. They had a very big influence on me. A big percentage of who I am came from my Davidson years.”

When asked if she would come back to Davidson someday to teach, Demiralp said, “Oh, I'd love to. You know, it’s funny, I’m in my first teaching position right now at Old Dominion University in Virginia, and even before then I taught courses here and there at Johns Hopkins while I was doing graduate work. Whenever you get a new set of students you match them up to Davidson, and Old Dominion is not a liberal arts school. But the way I teach is like teaching at a liberal arts college, by throwing in politics and real world...Examples. I compare everything I do in class to my classes at Davidson.” Warren Lackey ’83 found the new traffic pattern at Exit 30 to be “mind-boggling.” Lackey said, “I’m a financial advisor with Edward Jones Investments in High Point. I have a freshman here on fourth Little. I’m just here because of Homecoming. It’s been a while since we came to a Homecoming. Just because of work, it’s been hard to come back for my class reunion.” Other than the traffic, the changes have been good around the College. “I think Davidson has done a good job mixing the new with the old,” he said. “After Davidson I went to Wake Forest and did a JD/MBA program there,” Lackey said. “I got a law and business degree, and I practiced law for 11 years in High Point, then made a career change and got into financial services in ’99. Which was probably the worst time to get in the financial market. Edward Jones is a great company to work for. It’s nice to be back on campus and to have a student here and connect on a deeper level.” Alumni are visible on campus throughout the year, often with young Wildcats in tow.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2007

Engage for Change will tackle affordable housing
By ALISSA JREI
News Editor

Engage for Change (EFC) has kicked off the year with the theme of Affordable and Attainable Housing. EFC chose the theme at a planning retreat in the Spring of 2007. Last week EFC held two town meetings in the 900 Room to introduce the College community to the new theme and initiative objectives. On Sept. 25, EFC will host an open Panel on Housing Issues, at which key figures in local and regional affordable housing planning will engage in discussion and answer questions. New Davidson Affordable Housing Coordinator Cindy Reid, the Executive Director of the Davidson Housing Coalition, and the Executive Director of the North Carolina Housing Coalition are among those planning to participate. The panel will be held in the 900 Room from 7-9:30 p.m., and it is open to the community.

Engage for Change began in the Spring of 2006 as a student-led initiative. “It was very grassroots at the time,” Assistant Dean of Students for Community Service and Engage for Change advisor, Stacey Reimer said. She recalled that the group originally came together because they wanted to “pool their energy around the same cause.” Since 2006, EFC has grown in size and influence. “In a really short period of time, the entire Davidson community has really embraced this. There’s an energy around it, and people get excited about it,” Reimer said.

EFC was originally founded by students who identified gaps in the Davidson College service environment in which energy and resources were being exercised in a multitude of ways but rarely channeled together to maximal effect. Engage for Change acts to bridge those gaps. EFC is unique in its leadership and hierarchical structure, in that there is no definitive leadership position, such as “President.” Instead, EFC is led by a “Steering Committee,” which pools its energy in a group effort. This structural idiosyncrasy is representative of the group’s overall ethos. “From the beginning I appreciated the collaborative nature of [EFC],” Davis Greene ’09 said. “It’s a lot better if you can unite resources.”

Engage for Change has scheduled its now biannual Planning Retreat for Oct. 6. Anyone can attend, but EFC accepts a maximum of 60 students for each retreat, so students are advised to sign up early. “There is always a waiting list,” Greene said. Members emphasize that Engage for Change is an effort to which anyone can contribute and in which any efforts are appreciated. “I really love how different folks have found their way into the movement by becoming involved in any range of ways,” Reimer said. Greene agreed. “You can bring your passions to the table and accomplish a collective good,” he said. “Don’t feel limited.” So far the group is planning to build a Habitat for Humanity house, among other efforts. Greene said that the goal is to facilitate at least one event every month. To get involved with EFC, email dagreene.