THE DAVIDSONIAN

ACROSS
1. Show shame
6. Hunk
10. Pawn
14. Weapon
15. Some goats
16. Irving's Meany
17. Side order
19. Reverse
20. Famed inventor
21. Poker opening
22. Strength

ARTS & LIVING
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2007

Your Weekly Dose of Procrastination

24. Legal ending?
25. Protein source
29. Peacock
34. Take it easy
35. France, formerly
36. Profess
37. Ariel's love
38. Grill grippers
39. Folk stories
40. Audible breath
41. SI's Sportsman of the Year (2006)
42. Lift
43. Single Spaniard
45. __ off
46. Pro foe
47. Cut grass
48. Wishy __
51. Hera's husband
53. Phrase in fractions
57. Against
58. Side order
60. Break a twig
61. Lotion ingredient
62. Break the seal
63. Wooden pins
64. Mess
65. Christmas music

DOWN
1. Play the tuba
2. Silver screen queen Turner
3. __ of measurement
4. Highlander
5. Farm fowl
6. Shimmer
7. Camp sight
8. Push
9. Cavity finder's degree
10. Side order
11. Takes responsibility for
12. Give up
13. Stomach ailment
18. Spellbound
22. Simile necessity
23. La Cage __
24. Slippery fish
25. Journalists
26. Ghostly
27. Place in a row
28. Side order
29. Bamboo bear
30. Enormous
31. Dodge
32. Tammany Hall "Boss"
35. Get one's __
38. Castor or Pollux
42. Join the crew team
44. Mr. Rogers
45. In everybody's business
47. Beasts of burden
48. Flying insect
49. Green Gables gal
50. Solo
51. Shaka, for one
52. Cupid
53. Tuscan river
54. Pleasant
55. Agreement
56. Poisonous snakes
58. PC accessory
59. Are we having __ yet?

"Clean House" entertains but falls short
By Curtis Moore
Staff Writer

An elaborate joke told in Portuguese, without translation. A consideration of the meaning of dust. A trek to Alaska to
retrieve a cancer-curing tree. At first glance, these moments do not seem to be promising building blocks for a contemporary
comedy. In fact, it’s hard to fathom how they can fit into the same play. Yet, thanks to the imagination
of playwright Sarah Ruhl, “The Clean House,” running Sept. 19 through Oct. 6 at The Actor’s Theater of Charlotte (ATC),
comes together to form a very funny play.

At only 33 years old, Ms. Ruhl has already collected the prestigious “Susan Smith Blackburn Prize” in 2004 for “Best
Play Written in English by a Female Playwright,” and in 2006 she received a MacArthur Fellowship award (sometimes called the
“genius grant”). This award is given for showing “exceptional merit and promise for continued and enhanced creative work” and pays
the recipient $500,000. “The Clean House” was also a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in 2005.

Directed by Davidson’s own Scott Ripley, “The Clean House” starts off as a sitcom-ish domestic farce about Lane (Claudia Carter
Covington), a busy doctor who can’t stand to clean her own house, and her Brazilian cleaning lady, Matilde (Adyana de
la Torre), whose attitude towards filth is that “if the floor is dirty, look at the ceiling.” The play takes
a humorous...Turn when Lane’s sister, Virginia (Elyse A. Williams), an unhappy woman obsessed with cleanliness and orderliness, secretly takes over
for Matilde, who dreams of being a comedienne. As Matilde watches Virginia scrub and sweep Lane’s home, she uses her
free time to craft the “perfect joke,” a joke so funny that it will literally cause the listeners to laugh
themselves to death. Eventually, Lane discovers the women’s deception. Yet, even more upsetting is the revelation that Lane’s husband, Charles
(Martin Thompson), has left her for an older, life-embracing woman named Ana (Jorja Ursin).

Ruhl uses the idea of a “clean house” as a metaphor for exploring larger issues. Beyond issues of the cleanliness
of the sisters’ houses, both must deal with painful inner disorders and the messy situations and feelings they can’t easily
mop up or vacuum away. Ruhl combines tones that are both biting and sardonic, compassionate and passionately emotional. She takes
trite, incredible concepts—love at first sight, laughing in moments of extreme pain, dying of laughter—and endows them with a deep
emotional logic of their own.

In the performance, the most endearing and funniest of the group is Williams as the OCD, dust-smitten Virginia. The scene
in which she uses her beloved vacuum cleaner to wreak havoc with the living room she has so lovingly kept
clean is quite well done. Ursin tries her hardest to make Ana, a character who is more than anything a
symbol of the power of love, a believable character, and she succeeds at times. As Charles, Thompson gives a solid
performance by taking a role which, as written, serves as nothing more than a catalyst to the women’s actions, and
manages to change him into a reasonably well-developed character.

Unfortunately, I found the two main characters’ performances weak in many areas. Granted, they both had their moments, but these
points in the play were too few and far between. As Lane, Covington is far too one-dimensional most of the
time. She was in and out of character and lacked the believability required for the audience to care what happens
to her. As Matilde, de la Torre struggled to find the authenticity of the humor in her character. Again, this
came down to commitment and believability, as Matilde’s jokes and witty remarks seemed forced much of the time.

However, despite these weaker performances, “The Clean House” still makes for an entertaining night at the theatre. While I have
certainly seen better shows at ATC, I’d still recommend it as a way to get off campus, have a good
time, and perhaps even reflect on some of the ideas posed by Ruhl, Ripley, and the cast. While “The Clean
House” begins by revolving around a cleaning woman who hates to clean, the show is really about laughter, death, fury,
love, the ways we somehow manage to connect to one another, and ultimately our desire to make sense of our
crazy world.

Editor’s Note: This review was based off of a preview performance.
