7 ag 16

By MIKE FRONGELLO
Staff Writer

Kenny Mantuo ’11 is on a roll. The freshman running back followed up his game-winning touchdown catch against Lenoir-Rhyne with
a stellar performance Saturday afternoon, running for 135 yards and two touchdowns as Davidson defeated Jacksonville in its PFL opener.

Quarterback Ryan Alexander ’08 made his first start since injuring his shoulder in the second quarter of the season opener
against UNC-Pembroke, but the offense sputtered in the first half. Alexander threw two interceptions and the 'Cats had to punt
three times.

“I felt great about the shoulder. It held up the whole game and was able to withstand some hits. I
definitely looked rusty this first game back but that can be attributed more to the three weeks I had to
sit out than the actual injury,” said Alexander who finished with 243 yards through the air.

The Dolphins opened the scoring on the first play of the second quarter when running back Ron Harris darted 19
yards into the end zone. Kicker Michael Zacco’s extra point put Jacksonville in front early 7-0. Minutes later, Zacco converted
a 45-yard field goal to extend the Dolphin lead to 10-0. Davidson missed a chance to get on the board
right before halftime as Cody Elder’s kick from 46 yards out came up short.

After a sluggish and unsuccessful first half, the ’Cats looked to start the second half off with a bang. Right
on cue, Kirk Konert ’09 returned the kickoff 31 yards to start the second half, and a JU personal foul
gave the Wildcats superb field possession at the Jacksonville 44. The offense rolled this series. Alexander connected with Ryan Hubbard
’08 for a 15-yard gain, and then on the next play hooked up with Konert on a 29-yard touchdown pass
to put Davidson on the scoreboard. Elder converted the extra point to bring the score to 10-7 early in the
third.

Both teams’ defenses held firm as the teams traded punts and a pair of fumbles to complete the quarter. The
Kenny Mantuo show began early in the fourth. With 13:23 remaining, Mantuo plunged into the end zone from three yards
out to give Davidson its first lead of the game. Elder’s PAT made it 14-10. Chad Barnes ’09 complemented Mantuo
in the running game with 85 yards of his own. As a result, the team totaled a season-high 213 rushing
yards on the day behind another impressive performance by the ’Cats offensive line, which did not yield a sack.

The Davidson defense flipped the script on the Dolphins in the second half to hold them at bay for the
game’s final 37:02. Safeties Matt Easton ’09 and Tyler Lemons ’10 led the Wildcat defense with seven solo tackles apiece.
The ’Cats also recorded six tackles for a loss and a sack. Midway through the third quarter, Alexander led the
offense on an 80-yard drive that seemed to drain the Dolphins mentally and physically. Mantuo capped the drive with his
second touchdown of the game, this time on a long 37-yard run. Davidson tried to get tricky with this extra
point, but the ’Cats’ fake failed when Matt McGreevy’s ’08 pass fell incomplete. Nevertheless, the Wildcats retained a 10-point lead.

The Dolphins threatened to make a comeback late in the game, but Davidson thwarted those efforts when defensive back Jeffrey
Scott ’08 intercepted JU quarterback Chris Horton at the two-yard line. Matt Mikrut ’09 also recorded his first career interception
earlier in the contest. Scott’s interception sealed the Davidson victory as the Wildcat offense ran out the remaining 5:21.

See Football, page 14

Sports Editors

Behind four Top-50 finishes, the Davidson women’s cross country team took home a third-placeFinish at the Auburn Invitational Saturday, placing
ahead of tournament host and SEC power Auburn. Not to be outdone, the men’s team took home the tournament title
at The Citadel Invitational by securing three top-10 performances and placing five runners in the top-15. Caroline Sanker ’09 led
the ’Cats with an 11th-place finish and was named to the All-Invitation team for finishing in the Top 12 overall.
Sanker’s time of 17:05 set a new school record for the 5K distance, besting her own record of 17:12 set
earlier in the month at the Winthrop Invitational. “We ran a great race today!” head coach Jen Straub said. “Caroline
and Brenna continue to turn in fast times. Annie and Megal had great races too, and our freshmen continue to
keep us in the game!” Brenna Burns ’08 finished in the Top 25 overall, recording the fourth-best time in school
history crossing the finish line in 17:35. Annie O’Donnell ’08 crossed the line with a personal best as she finished
in 18:02, nearly 25 seconds better than her previous best time. Megal Atias ’08 rounded out the Wildcats’ top finishers,
placing 50th overall with a time of 18:34. As a team, the ’Cats finished third out of 22 teams, behind
just Florida and Iowa.

On the men’s side, team captain Sam Morris ’08 paced the Wildcats for the third race in a row, finishing
the 8K race with a blazing time of 26:08.52. He placed second out of 68 Division 1 runners and fifth
overall in the 141-man field. “Winning an invitational is special. It’s something we haven’t done since 1998. And when you
beat four conference teams that just makes it even sweeter,” Morris said.

Player of the Week
Katie Pierucci ‘08
Women’s Soccer
Hometown: Bakersfield, California

“And just as important, we had three guys who we are counting on to be in our top five make
their season debuts. As a team we are getting healthier and faster and that is a great combination,” Morris added.
Charlie Schmitt ’11 and Thad Sieracki ’09 also ranked among the D1 elites, finishing seventh and ninth, respectively. Schmitt ran
for a time of 26:43.91 while Sieracki finished close behind with a time of 26:54.56. “Winning an invitational is special.
When you beat four conference teams that just makes it even sweeter.” --Sam Morris ’08

“Charlie Schmitt really stepped it up at the Citadel. He is running great right now and has put himself in
contention for freshman of the year,” Morris said of the freshman. Alex Hoyt ’09 and Josh Parkey ’11 finished within
spitting distance of Sieracki with times good enough to secure 12th and 15th places. Their times of 26:57.47 and 26:59.32
put the pair just seconds behind the top-10. Morris says the team expects to accomplish much more. “We aren’t just
going to sit back and hang our hat on this meet. Our performance at the Citadel is just a building
block that will help get us towards being the team we want to be at conference.”

Both Wildcat teams will travel with high hopes to Greenville, S.C. for the Furman Invitational on October 13.

Sam Morris ’08 placed fifth overall in the weekend’s invitational with a time of 26:08.52 over 8K.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Football receives kickoff in both halves
After winning the coin toss in Saturday’s football game, the Jacksonville captain chose to kick instead of deferring to the
second half. That gave Davidson the option to kick or receive in the second half. Davidson chose to receive. On
Davidson’s first drive of the second half, they scored the go-ahead touchdown en route to a 20-10 win.

Pierucci came up big in the Wildcats’ three-game homestand, averaging 21 kills a game. Pierucci tallied a career-high 29 kills
on Saturday to lead Davidson to its first SoCon victory of the season.
