THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Baghdad tribunal handed down a 10-year sentence in the case of Army sniper Evan Vela, who shot and killed
an Iraqi civilian on orders from his Staff Sgt. Michael Hensley. The platoon leader, Sergeant Hensley, received an acquittal at
his trial. These cases highlight one of the most disturbing features of moral irresponsibility of certain commanding officers. Military leaders
like Platoon Sgt. Corrales and Staff Sgt. Hensley are an accident waiting to happen. If soldiers arrive poorly trained, they
are perhaps least capable of understanding and purpose. Such actions undermine the moral integrity of the military. American soldiers shouldn’t
have to make a choice between obeying the orders of a superior and the dictates of their conscience.

Lexi Hamilton '08 is a Political Science and Religion major from San Antonio. Contact her at lehamilton@davidson.edu.

PERSPECTIVES

Consider other climate change theories
By ANDERS WELLS
Guest Columnist

Two weeks ago, Clint Smith wrote an article stating that global warming is the “least understood” problem facing our nation.
I agree: global warming is poorly understood. It may even be the most profound problem facing our nation. But the
policies suggested by most environmentalists regarding global warming will only cause us to ignore the problems it causes, not address
them.

I want to preface my arguments by stating that I do understand that global temperatures have increased over the past
century, and I do believe they will continue to do so. I also believe that these increasing temperatures will cause,
and have caused, profound changes in our world. I do not think that global warming is “hippie” nonsense. But to
claim that any argument against the common conceptions of global warming is just the talk of stupid “conservatives” is to
be as irrational as those who claim that global warming is a myth.

The policies suggested by most environmentalists regarding global warming will only cause us to ignore the problems it causes, not
address them. After looking at a lot of research, I have come to the conclusion that the strongest cause of
global warming is variations in the energy output of the sun. The energy output of the sun, called the solar
constant, isn't really constant: it changes. The sun goes through periods of increased energy output (associated with more sunspots) and
periods of decreased output (associated with fewer sunspots). Recently, we have been going through the strongest sunspot cycle since humans
have been measuring such cycles. Furthermore, Mars has been experiencing a strange increase in global temperatures. That's right: global warming
on Mars. Yet there are no greenhouse-gas-emitting little men on Mars to explain these increases. The explanation for the majority
of global warming on Mars and Earth is the same: the sun is bombarding us with more energy than it
has in the recent past. Look at the geological record of Earth: we've had Ice Ages and we've had global
warming. It happens. It's natural.

While global warming is natural, what human beings have done to the Earth isn't. We've caused enormous damage. The truth
is that we've raped the biosphere to such a degree that many ecosystems are failing because they can no longer
withstand the natural changes caused by global warming. We're in trouble. I really don't think there is anything we can
do to stop global warming, but we can prepare for it. We need to increase our areas of conservation to
protect biodiversity. We need to prepare for droughts, record floods, famine, and stronger hurricanes. We need to understand that our
world is changing swiftly and profoundly. But most of all, we need to stop sticking our collective heads in the
sand by focusing on trying to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Not only will we fail to change fundamentally those carbon
dioxide emissions, but it wouldn't make much difference if we did. We can prepare. But we need to accept the
inevitable. Not to do so is to prevent us from addressing the problems that global climate change will cause.

Anders Wells ’08 is a Biology major from Syracuse, N.Y. Contact him at anwells@davidson.edu.

New arena seating policy ineffective
By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Guest Columnist

I want to make one thing perfectly clear: I do not have a problem with any of the event...Staff at
Baker Sports Complex, nor with any staff in general. I have a strong respect for all of our staff at
Davidson, and I consider many of them friends. So please, as you read this, do not read into it any
kind of objection to, or disapproval of, individuals doing their job by enforcing policy. Instead, read every level of objection
to, and disapproval of, the policy they have been asked to enforce. The short version: the new ticketing policy for
home basketball games sucks. I challenge anyone to disagree with any of the following statements. One: The best seats in
Belk Arena are the red seats. Two: Fans want to sit in the best seats. The trifecta: Our teams appreciate
and feed off fan support and volume. Count the basket, and here’s the foul: There have been empty red seats
at every Davidson home game since the new ticketing policy began. Case in point: Feb. 9, 2008, Blackout Belk Arena
day. Sitting 12 rows back in the bleachers, I had a great vantage point from which to count empty red
seats. At tip-off, I counted 128 red seats unoccupied, and that was only on the three sides that I could
see. Add to this that I had purchased my ticket at 9:08 a.m. on Feb. 4. Within eight minutes, all
the red seats had been purchased. Arriving at 1:30 on the ninth for the 2 p.m. tip-off, I found Section
104 already filled twelve rows deep. To recap, arriving early both for ticket purchase and at the game itself, I
found myself eight rows from the top of Belk Arena. Count the basket, and here’s the foul: there have been
empty red seats at every Davidson home game since the new ticketing policy began. And over 128 red seats remained
empty. I’m not making a case that I should have gotten one; I was a mere half-hour early to the
game, a sin I will take to my grave. The horde in front of me, however, which foamed at the
mouth and did its best to match the intensity of the end zone and the D-Block—these fans deserved better seats.
Case number two: earlier that week, when Davidson played Elon and the tickets went on sale on the fourth as
well, almost half of the red seats were visible (meaning no fans stood in front of them). Case number three:
the Furman game, Feb. 16. I had broken my leg that Friday, and so at Saturday’s game I wasn’t really
about to make it up the narrow and steep stairs of the bleachers. Of course, I couldn’t possibly sit in
a red seat. Those empty seats were reserved for fans who were dedicated enough to buy their tickets early. I
guess they used up their dedication a week in advance and, gosh darn it, just couldn’t be bothered to come
to the game itself. I couldn’t, however, watch the game while standing behind the railing above the red seats. Event
staff asked me to go to my seat several times; I explained my situation each time. Finally, the gentleman in
charge informed me that I could sit in the upper corner of the end zone, but that I “was to
go no further than that.” Oh, by the way, let me apologize at this time if anyone in that section
felt threatened by my presence in one of the twelve empty seats behind them. I will emphasize again that I
do not blame any of the staff for the bureaucratic farce that having a man on crutches watch a basketball
game entailed. I blame the bureaucracy that put the rules there. Why? Why would we have some of the best
seats in Belk Arena empty while demanding that fans move up to the bleachers? Why is a single man standing
on crutches behind the railing a threat to other spectators? Why are we diffusing our fans and their vociferous support
in our own gymnasium? Why is an arena that serves a community and that seats 5,700 treating ticket policy as
though it served stockholders and seated 25,000? And why, despite suggesting little more than common sense, will no part of
this policy change? Yes, that is a taunt. And if the people who make policy prove me wrong, I will
be glad to retract it.

Nathan Bradshaw
Swannanoa, N.C.
nabradshaw@davidson.edu
708 is an English major from Contact him at
