THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Wild Men’s Swimming claims first win, Women falter

By MIKE FRONGELLO
Staff Writer

Both the men’s and women’s swimming teams finished fifth place at the Nike Invitational at Kenyon College over the weekend.
Three new individual records and three new relay records highlighted the Wildcats’ performance.

Leading the pack in record breaking was Lindsey Martin ’11, who finished third in the preliminary heat of the 100
free with a time of 51.93, which was good enough to put her in the Super Final. The time broke
her own record of 52.17, but she would set a new record again in the evening session with a blistering
50.82 to secure a runner-up finish in the event. Her time also bettered the NCAA Division Championship cut time of
51.90.

In the 100 butterfly, Emily Castle ’11 swam to a fourth-place finish with another personal-record time of 57.62. She broke
her own record from her preliminary heat time of 57.79 that she set earlier in the day. Alana Ream ’09
bested her record time in the 500 free with a 5:00.81 performance in the consolation final. She had previously set
the record at 5:00.83 in the 2007 CAA’s. Ream’s consolation time actually proved better than two super finalists, but she
was forced to settle for a seventh-place finish.

The Wildcats continued their record-setting ways in the relays as both the men’s and women’s A teams set new program
records in the 400 freestyle relay. In the women’s relay, Courtney Sanders ’09 and Jessica Delgehausen ’11 joined Martin and
Castle in the fastest relay in team history. The team finished with a time of 3:30.69 which earned them a
second place finish, shattering the old record mark of 3:32.23.

The men’s 400 free relay team, consisting of Scott Frantz ’09, Miguel Rodriguez ’09, Andrew Carlson ’09, and Fiete Stegger
’08, swam to a fourth place finish by setting another program record time of 3:06.30 which bested the previous mark
by one-tenth of a second. The men’s 200 relay team also enjoyed a record-breaking time of 1:33.77 for a fourth
place finish. Frantz, Stegger, Rodriguez, and Miller Williams ’10 swam to the record for the 'Cats in the event.

Both Martin and Frantz were named CCSA Swimmers of the Week for the second time this season after the race.
Coach John Young was pleased with the team’s performance. “We hoped that this meet would provide our Wildcats a forum
for performances at our season’s midpoint. The team embraced the opportunity and executed on a really fun weekend of racing.
Setting a dozen Davidson College records speaks for itself - it was a fun weekend, but now it’s back to
work preparing for our conference meet.”

The University of Kansas won the three-day meet’s women’s title with 1090.5 points, while the host Kenyon College took the
men’s title with 1242.5 points. The next meet for the ’Cats will take place on Jan. 3 when both teams
travel south for the Deerfield Beach Invitational in Florida.

Wrestling team performs well at the Davidson Open

By RAY FRANCIS
Staff Writer

On Saturday, the wrestling team placed four members in the top three of the Davidson Open, the team’s first home
match of the year. Sam O’Hair ’09 led the Wildcats with a second place finish in the 184 class, losing
in the final match to John Barone of Duke after defeating three opponents in the early rounds of the bracket.
Davidson was further aided by Ben Altman ’10, Trebor Clavette ’08, and Mike Waters ’10, who recorded third-place finishes in
the 125, 174, and 197 classes, respectively. Altman lost 8-6 in the quarterfinals against Kellan McKeon of Duke before storming
through the Wrestleback bracket to defeat McKeon by medical forfeit in the third-place match. Clavette fell 5-3 in a hard-fought
battle with Kody Harrington of UNCG before recovering to steamroll ZachUlm of George Mason by a margin of 21-8 for
third place. Waters lost in the semifinals of 197 before gaining third place by medical forfeit. Charlie Wolff ’11 added
another bright spot to the Wildcats’ day by finishing fourth in the heavyweight division. He made the third place match
after falling 5-3 to Leon Barrow of VMI in the division semifinals.

The Wildcats also performed well at the Navy Classic on November 17, recording a seventh place finish in their second
competition of the season. Clavett led the Wildcat effort, placing second in the 174 lb. class. Clavett won his first
three matches before falling 8-6 to Matt Stolpinski of Navy in the championship match. Altman placed fourth in the 125
class for Davidson. He won four matches, including three in the consolation division, before falling in the third-place match to
Ian Moser of Bloomsburg. O’Hair rounded out the placement for Davidson by finishing fifth in the 184 class. O’Hair won
his first round match and added two victories in the consolation division in addition to his 7-5 victory in the
fifth-place match over Keith Dobish of Rutgers.

“We showed a lot of improvement compared to our first tournament,” Clavett said. “We still lost some matches we shouldn’t
have, but overall it was a good performance. The team as a whole is looking much sharper, and we’re wrestling
more solidly now.”

The Wildcats do not compete again until the Southern Scuffle at UNC Greensboro, which will take place on Dec. 29-30.

Curry received SoCon Player of the Month for the fourth time in his career for his stellar play throughout the
month. The Wildcats play at Charlotte this Wednesday night in the annual battle of the Hornet’s Nest. Davidson is 10-25
all-time against Charlotte, although the team did win 79-51 last season at Belk Arena. The ’Cats have never won at
Charlotte’s Halton Arena. After Charlotte, Davidson will travel to Anaheim to take on No. 8 UCLA in the Wooden Classic
on Saturday at 5:30 p.m.

SoCon At a Glance

SoCon Men’s Basketball Standings

Western Carolina’s Nick Aldridge was dismissed from the team last week for getting into personal disagreements with his teammates and
coaches. Aldridge was elected to the SoCon’s All-Freshman team last season and was the Catamounts’ leading scorer. Although Davidson came
within a combined 10 points of beating UNC and Duke, UNC-Greensboro is the only SoCon team to knock off an
ACC opponent. UNC-G beat Georgia Tech 83-74.

Birthdays, Cakes and Catering

Tie Dye T-Shirt Birthday Parties
Custom Ice Cream Cakes for All Occasions
Cones or Sundaes Served at Your Party or Event

Defending SoCon Player of the Year Kyle Hines has been keeping a blog throughout this year’s basketball season. Some of
his subjects include: how hard it is for tall guys to get on planes and how great a player Kyle
Hines is. Google “Kyle Hines blog” to check it out.

Arboretum (704) 843-8333
Davidson (704) 892-0604
(704) 364-7600
Or visit us online at www.cowolina.com

The Citadel has been the SoCon’s doormat for many years now. This year’s Bulldog team has 13 freshmen on their
roster. But the league’s worst team this year might be Furman. Unfortunately, both teams won’t go winless in the conference
since they have to play each other.

Right now, Georgia Southern may very well be the league’s second-best team. They knocked off UAB at home and sit
atop the SoCon South. Unfortunately, Davidson hosts the Eagles while students are on break.
