ie “Misspell” Mispelled U BI Welcome Parenta! Units. Hair parted down middle, awesome

SEEPAGE 2 | 10° ~ Frank Higginbotham, 57, has no pride. In a weak attempt to show his somewhat tainted love for his son, a sophomore at Davidson, Higginbotham suggested playing a drinking game Friday night as part of his visit over Parents’ Weekend. As a result of overall poor parenting and a lack of interest in his son’s development between the ages of two and 18, Higginbotham began setting up solo cups for a game of beer pong with his son and his son’s roommates.

Frank Higginbotham Senior passes out on the couch after “throwing down” with three of his son’s friends. “Signing all those checks at the office has only helped my throwing hand, and besides, I still know how to par-tay,” Higginbotham hooted and hollered. Higginbotham, who is an investment banker at Wachovia, had not been invited to the party, residents of Flowe 202 said.

Student dresses up for class for no apparent reason SEE PAGE 7

Lack of horses a problem for new Equestrian team SEE PAGE 2

THE YOWL Your Davidsanian Honor Section

A reported “consumer rampage” broke out over the weekend at the Target in Mooresville when Helen Bogness, mother of Charlie Bogness '11, attended a storewide sale that started at 6:00 am. “I just noticed that his sheets weren’t the 3000 thread count that he has at home and it simply broke my heart,” Helen commented. For Helen Bogness, Parents’ weekend was not simply about spending time with her son. “I wanted him to have all the essentials: whitening toothpaste, Windex, extra strength q-tips and Easier Mac. He’s so fragile you know...”

Charlie expressed slight discontent concerning his mother’s purchases. “For Christ’s sake I’m 20 years old and the woman goes and buys me an Easy Bake Oven,” Charlie remarked. “It’s not like I go home and buy her Lunchables.”

Editors: Dan Killian, Alex Hoyt

A little better than Hootie: In an attempt to demonstrate his independence and to free up floor space in his room, Charlie Bogness '11 threw out nearly all of the “bare necessities” his mother had purchased for him at Target over the weekend. After stoking a courtyard bonfire with notebooks and Trapper Keepers, using Windex as lighter fluid, Charlie set the fruits of his mother’s weekend labor ablaze.

His name is a complete sentence: Will

Blue Note: The Yowl! is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

THE PARENT TRAP ISSUE — ORTA UBERTAS DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER October 24, 2007

Roommates Wilson Cartmeier and Bobby Stanson described the scene as “awkward,” “uneasy” and “mildly strange.” Cartmeier commented, “Mr. Higginbotham seemed like a nice guy, but he was playing with this cashmere sweater on and kept making basketball references to players from the 60’s every time he shot. At one point he even claimed to be one of the original Harlem Globetrotters.” When Higginbotham began folk dancing to Justin Timberlake’s “Sexyback,” campus police intervened because the scene was “simply too painful to watch.” After the heinous incident, Higginbotham took the Vamanos van bus back to his Ritz-Carlton at Exit 12.

“For 16 years we never did anything together,” said Frank, Jr., a self-admittedly morose philosophy major whose interests include Bergman films and Being and Nothingness. “No ballgames, no national parks, not even a ‘birds and the bees’ talk. Now, all of a sudden, he’s hanging out...a lot. And he’s been sleeping on our couch three nights straight.” Mr. Higginbotham, many beers deep at the time, hinted that his son suffers from a classic Oedipus complex manifested in his aversion to playing beer pong with his father, his reluctance to say “good night,” and his general disdain for his father’s company.

Mother spends 7 hours at Target

Son spends 10 minutes throwing out everything his mother buys him over the weekend from Target

Also discarded in the purge were night-lights, pencil boxes, shoe racks, Nutri-Grain bars, q-tips, bingo boards, thumbtacks, Applejacks, two bank statements, and a thimble. After the dirty work had been done, Charlie and his roommates celebrated their newfound space by hosting a minimalist-themed party.his roommates retired to the porch to shoot skeet with the ceramic plates and Tupperware lids his mom had purchased from Williams-Sonoma. ete a thee te he fe night” and his prolonged predilection for breast-feeding. Frank Jr., relatively sober due to his father’s insistence on drinking all their team’s cups, commented that Frank Sr. embezzles corporate funds, lives in the past, and leans his elbow over the table when shooting. At one point, as he sank their hapless opponents’ fifth cup in as many shots, Mr. Higginbotham cried out, “Re-rack ‘em, baby! Give us the old Power D, eh?” Higginbotham Senior poses with his son’s girlfriend prior to blacking out. “Maybe our relationship needs a re-rack, dad,” murmured Frank Jr., who had not wanted to re-rack yet. No one would have been able to notice this interfamilial bickering, however, as father and son rifled through opponent after opponent. “For sixteen years we never did anything... no ballgames, no national parks, not even a ‘birds and the bees’ talk. Now, all of a sudden, he’s hanging out... a lot. Then, just as the father-son tandem was poised to win its 17th consecutive game, and as Mr. Higginbotham was exaggerating his cameo role on Chapel Hill’s 1973 ACC runner-up basketball team to Frank’s roommates, the unthinkable happened. An errant shot by the Higginbotham’s opponents ricocheted off the wall and plopped into Frank Sr.’s cup, constituting the infamous “death cup” and thereby ending the game. Mr. Higginbotham, near black-out, collapsed in agony. Frank Jr., smirking, remarked on the symbolism, threw his father a blanket and a pillow and retired for the evening. The Yowl is now online. Check it out at www.thedavidsonian.com.

Student Locked Out of Life

Little did Max Lancaster ’09 know that when he locked himself out of his senior apartment last weekend, he would never be able to return to his former life. “There’s really nothing we can do,” Ryburn building manager Leslie Giordano ’08 said. “The keys to the rooms are actually in a safety deposit box only accessible to the Physical Plant staff, all of whom are on strike,” live-in Mooresville and are unlisted in the local directory.” Campus Safety Officer Will Williams was also powerless to intervene, explaining that since there is a $10 charge for letting students into their rooms, and since Max has a Cat Card balance of $9.75 and an unpaid parking ticket, he could do nothing either. Lancaster, who argued that he could pay the parking ticket and find a quarter if only let into his room, was cited for disorderly conduct and fined an additional $50. When he took his case to the town police, officers told him that unlocking the door would constitute an unreasonable search and seizure, “We’d need a warrant.” “We’re just trying to protect the kid’s Miranda Rights.” Lancaster, also locked out of his car, wandered semi-consciously to a locksmith’s located between exits 28 and 25. The locksmith, fresh out of skeleton keys, redirected him to a trailer in a junkyard at the bottom of a quarry, where a snaggle-toothed old man had allegedly accrued quite a collection of keys. The old man, blabbering about the Dead Sea Scrolls and a broken Studebaker, told Lancaster to sit down for some tea. When told about the Ryburn situation, he knowingly nodded his head. “I, too, used to live in Ryburn 301, Room C,” he said. “For 50 years I’ve wandered Charlotte, the Republic and Middle Earth. To Mordor you must go. There you will find One Key to rule them all, One Key to find them, One Key to bring them all and in the darkness bind them.” “Okay...” Lancaster said, trying to remember the number for RLO.