Say « DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Students get a first-hand look at Davidson’s Waste Audit results.

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2007

Students, faculty discuss Environmental Studies

By ALISSA CURRAN
News Editor

For many years, Davidson students have demanded an environmental studies concentration. But it is only recently that the proposal is
close to becoming a reality. Last week, the Educational Policy Committee approved the proposal for an Environmental Studies concentration. The
concentration is pending approval from the faculty, who will meet this week to review it.

The third meeting of the Academic Policy Forum focused on the proposed environmental studies concentration, and students were encouraged to
ask questions of Professor of Economics, Dave Martin, Associate Professor of English, Annie Ingram, and Professor of Anthropology, Matt Samson,
regarding the potential for an environmental studies opportunity on campus.

Martin, a coordinator for environmental studies, cited an environmental curiosity among Davidson students on a local and global level that
has fueled interest in an environmental studies concentration for years. All proposals up to this point have incorporated the liberal
arts philosophy by requiring at least one credit in the humanities, natural sciences, and social sciences for successful completion.

Martin explained that the greatest hindrance to the approval of this program relates to the accessibility of faculty. “The reason
they haven’t passed the concentration is the perceived accessibility of faculty,” he said.

See Academic, page 4

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”

First Class
U.S. POSTAGE PAID
Permit #1
Davidson, NC

VOLUME 99, NUMBER 11

Warner Hall hosts panel discussion promoting HIV/AIDS awareness

By KATHERINE JOHNSON
Staff Writer

On Nov. 27, Warner Hall hosted the panel discussion “HIV/AIDS: Locally and Globally.” The discussion was one of many AIDS
awareness events Warner hosted leading up to World AIDS Day on Dec. 1. Professor of Biology, Dave Wessner, moderated the
discussion. The panel consisted of Devin Baez of the Metrolina AIDS Project (MAP), Courtney Sanders ’09, Carlos Flores ’08, and
Professor of Biology, Verne Case.

The discussion highlighted AIDS’s impact on both the local area and on Africa, particularly Mwandi, where Davidson’s Department of Biology
hosts a summer program. The panel members came to the consensus that the main ways to fight the spread of
the disease both locally and globally were through education and open communication.

Baez, whose work for MAP helps local families affected by AIDS, shared startling statistics on AIDS’s local impact. According to
Baez, AIDS is “very much a problem in Charlotte.” Most of those infected are in the 30-39 age group, and
African-Americans are by far the most impacted by the disease in the local area, followed by Caucasians and Hispanics. Fifty-two
percent of those infected in Mecklenburg County are homosexual males, and 89 percent of infected women are African-American. Baez warned
that the statistics could be slightly skewed, as onlythose who were tested for HIV were included in the statistics, and
certain groups, like Hispanics, are less likely to be tested for AIDS. Flores elaborated on the Latino community’s reticence. “For
the Latino community, you don’t discuss [AIDS]” because it is still seen as a “white gay disease. They don’t understand
that it is a disease that affects populations across the spectrum.” Latinos, who comprise

See AIDS, page 2

Students dance at Warner Hall’s Red and Black Ball, which raises money for AIDS foundations.

Ada Jenkins: Listening to understand
By CURTIS MOORE
News Editor

The Ada Jenkins Center’s founders, staff, and board of directors “strongly believe that unforeseen circumstances can place people of all
walks of life at risk.” Whether a family faces illness, job loss, or other life situations, Ada is there to
help and provide tools for a better life.

For nine years now, The Ada Jenkins Center has been a large part of the Davidson community. To maintain their
strong presence and continue to grow over time, Ada will need help keeping up with the rapidly changing Lake Norman
area. With recent changes to Ada’s leadership and Town government, The Davidsonian felt it would be timely to educate members
of the community who might not know all that Ada Jenkins has to offer.

History

The main building of The Ada Jenkins Center began as a schoolhouse. In the early 1920s, when a fire destroyed
a small wooden schoolhouse in the Mock Circle area of Davidson, the school’s principal, Miss Ada Jenkins, raised money and
built a new brick schoolhouse with the help of other community members. The school, then named the Davidson Colored School,
reopened in 1937. However, the school closed in 1966 when schools in Davidson integrated, and the students transferred to Davidson
Elementary School and the Torrence Lytle High School in Huntersville.

In the 70s, 80s, and early 90s, the building served as a community center, offering various educational and human services,
including a food co-op, a dance studio, and an after-school program. Then in 1995, members of the community renovated the
building and established The Ada Jenkins Center in its current form. The grand opening was held on Nov 8, 1998,
with Ada Jenkins’s daughter and granddaughter in attendance. Since then, the Center has rapidly grown to become a well-respected model
for non-profits in the region, broadening its services to the entire Lake Norman area. Recently, the Duke University School of
Divinity recognized The Ada Jenkins Center as a “Model Organization for Building Communities of Caring.”

Leadership

On Sept. 22, Bill Johnson left his post as Executive Director of The Ada Jenkins Center after six years of
dedicated leadership. With his help, the Center transitioned from a small community center into a regional beacon of hope for
many families in need living in the Lake Norman region. With the incredible growth in the area, the Center daily
faced new challenges and a broadening service area from Huntersville to Troutman. Turning people away was not an option, so
new means of funding and fundraising were sought to ensure that programs were added and new services were offered. To
this end, Johnson increased the budget from $422,000 to $726,000 during his tenure. Johnson attributes this growth to several factors.
“We have gotten the word out to the community so

See Ada, page 2
