2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2008

Robbery, from page 1

handed the teller a note with demands for money. No weapon was visible. The teller complied, and no one was hurt. Miller praised the bank staff for “reacting appropriately.” The Davidson Police Department then received a 911 call from BB&T at 2:07 p.m. Two Davidson police officers arrived at the bank within a minute of the call. “The K-9 unit did a track,” Miller said. “We determined that the suspect was headed west, away from the college and away from the town.”

After sending the initial email alerting staff, students, and faculty of the robbery, Walker sent another campus message stating that the “individual responsible for the bank robbery had been apprehended in Cornelius.” But according to davidsonnews.net, the man detained on Thursday was not involved in the robbery and was released shortly thereafter. “We’ve got a lot of legwork left to do,” Miller said. “This isn’t CSI; we don’t close a case in an hour.” According to davidsonnews.net, this is the first Davidson bank robbery in seven or eight years. “It’s not usual,” Miller said. “But, I keep telling people, there’s no moat around Davidson or Davidson College.”

On Thursday, the BB&T in Davidson was robbed. This was the first bank robbery in over seven years and served as a reminder that “there’s no moat around Davidson.”

2/15/08 A Change of Heart 8:39 p.m. Martin Court F

On Friday, Feb. 15, an officer observed three beer pong tables set up in the courtyard of Martin Ct. “F”. The officer found approximately 25 people either using or standing around the tables drinking. The officer asked the entire group if they were over the age of 21 and they all confirmed that they were. The officer then stated that she was going to check IDs, and if any were under the age of 21 they would have to leave. The officer informed the group that if there was anyone under 21, they could leave at that moment with no questions asked. At this point, 20 of the 25 subjects left the area.

2/17/08 Playing by the Rules 2:35 a.m. The Outpost

On Sunday, Feb. 17, an officer was called to The Outpost to assist the manager. The manager requested that two students leave the building because one subject was in possession of alcohol inside the building and the other was being disrespectful. The manager stated that she informed the student with the alcohol that she was not allowed to have it in The Outpost. The subject then went and put the alcohol outside. The subject and her friends then tried to reenter The Outpost. The floor manager opened the door to tell them that they were closed. At this time, another woman walked up to the window where the manager had informed prior subjects that The Outpost was closed and not taking any more orders. After this encounter, the manager became angry and started yelling and cursing at the subjects. The officer spoke to the subjects, explaining to them that if asked to leave by the manager, then do so without any confrontation. The two subjects stated that they did not know the rules but now understand how it works for the future.

2/20/08 Fire Extinguishers Are Not Toys 2:11 p.m. Knox Dormitory

An officer observed outside the Knox Dorm entrance area what appeared to be discharge from a fire extinguisher. The officer learned that sometime Sunday night, both fire extinguishers on the first floor of Knox had been discharged. The woman who cleans the building told the officer that she cleaned up the mess from the extinguishers on Monday morning. The officer also learned from a Physical Plant employee that one extinguisher had been replaced on Feb. 19 and the other was to be replaced on Feb. 20.

2/20/08 The Peeping Tom and his Dog 11:16 p.m. Knox/Akers Dorm

On Feb. 20, an officer was contacted on the officer cell.Phone by an anonymous subject in reference to a suspicious person walking a dog and peeking into windows behind Knox Dorm. Two officers searched the area for the subject and located him behind Akers and Knox. The subject gave his name to the officers upon being asked, explaining that he was walking his dog. Officers advised the subject that he was seen looking into windows of the dorm by a student. The subject informed the officers that he had been on campus other times inquiring about the different dorms. One officer filled out trespass paperwork and advised the subject that he was not allowed back on campus. The subject was then escorted off campus by one of the officers.

Race, from page 1, believes is the cause of the current turmoil. “We are experiencing a paradigm shift involving racial inequities 40 or more years in the making,” Walker said. “Our primary response is to educate the majority on minority issues in a way that implicates the current majority as responsible for past transgressions, hence present tensions. All parties have a level of responsibility in this and must acknowledge their part in sustaining the ignorance or acting upon it. We do have to talk about it, but both sides in any discussion have to be heard and not made to feel culpable about their thoughts, beliefs, or history.”

Walker was also quick to point out that the incident described in Dennis’ article is not a problem within Davidson only, but a problem that mars our entire society. “David’s article mirrors incidents occurring across our nation and in my own life. Personally, I have confronted ignorance and stereotype in my profession and as a citizen. But I choose to address the ignorance in a way that educates those involved and enlightens me to why the ignorance or prejudice exists,” Walker said.

Often trapped within the physical and mental confines of the “Davidson Bubble,” it is easy to forget that there are real problems that exist on campus. Ross believes that students need to keep an open mind and perspective when discussing the issues.

Alexandra Greer, Matthew Gregory, Suzanne Guarino, Alexis Hamilton, Nancy Haskell, Rachel Heidmann, Elizabeth Henry, Jonathan Huggins, Katie Hunter, Kyle Hynden, Alicyn Isaac-Lowry, Nicole Keroack, Deborah Tarwasokono, Adam Topaz, Summerlee Walter, Erika Weiberg.

Ross continues, stating that racism, prejudice, and ignorance are problems that have existed for thousands of years and that cannot simply be swept away overnight. Ross, like Walker, rejected the claim that dwelling on “race-talk” divides us more. “Surfacing the issue for what it really is and discussing it more are the only feasible solutions for eliminating the problem,” Ross said.

The President made it known that the event that David “eloquently and classily” addressed is by no means “harmless” and reflects a problem in the real world. “Unfortunately, African-American men are often associated with fear, and that’s not fair,” Ross said. “I understand that when an African-American walks into a store he has an extra set of eyes on him because of nothing more than his skin color. When a white man walks into a store, however, all that the manager is worried about is how much money he’s going to spend.”

Ross said that the administration is doing all that it can to fix race relations at the College, but ultimately the responsibility lies on the shoulders of its students. After spring break, there will be hall programs put into effect that will address these issues. The hope is that the programs will provide a forum in which students will confront the issues and voice their own opinions on the matter.

Evangeline Pittman, Rachel Purcell, Juan Ramirez, Joseph Reed, Stephanie Scott, Christina Shea, Angela Soper, Willem Stegger, William Stokes, Daniel Van Oudenaren, Nancy Waldrop, Anne Weaver, Anders Wells, Lauren Woodall, Erin Zwack.