THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

The Wildcat Pulse

Volleyball continues to struggle

By MIKE FRONGELLO
Staff Writer

The volleyball team entered its weekend road trip with high hopes of opening Southern Conference play on a positive note and ending its five-game losing streak. Unfortunately for the ’Cats, the weekend brought more heartbreak as the team dropped a pair of 3-0 decisions at Western Carolina (30-16, 30-18, 30-24) and Chattanooga (30-27, 30-21, 30-25).

The Wildcats came out flat in their opener at Western. The Catamounts scored first in the opening game and never looked back. At one point, they held a commanding 17-4 lead on their way to an easy 30-16 victory. In the second game, the ’Cats looked to get out to a fast start as outside hitter Katie Pierucci ’08 won the game’s first point. Davidson kept the game close in the early going behind blocks from Brittany Narr ’09 and Jorden Benedict ’11. A pair of Catamount errors knotted the score at 5-5, but Western opened up a 15-7 lead with a 10-2 run. The home side then sailed the rest of the way in a 30-18 victory.

Despite being in an 0-2 hole, the ’Cats fought valiantly in the third game. The teams exchanged points for most of the game, and Davidson trailed 18-17 following one of middle blocker Kittery Neale’s ’09 nine kills. Neale also led the Wildcats with 10 points and a .316 hitting percentage. Western seemed to break open the close game with a 6-2 run, but coach Tim Cowie called a timeout and Davidson responded with a 6-1 run of its own to cut the deficit back to one at 25-24. The Catamounts’ attack, led by Ali Rook and Meredith Harmon, proved to be too much. Following a Western timeout, the home team reeled off five straight points to secure match and game victories.

The Wildcats had little time for sulking as they faced another tough SoCon test the next afternoon at Chattanooga. On Sunday, the Wildcats were without freshman star Sarabeth Peele ’11 who suffered a lower leg injury during Saturday’s contest. Davidson challenged its opponent for all three games, but came up short once again, this time against the Mocs. With the win, Chattanooga remained undefeated (3-0) in the Southern Conference.

Pierucci turned in a solid effort for the ’Cats, recording her 6th double-double of the season by posting 14 kills and 12 digs. Neale also turned in a stellar performance for the second straight day by notching 12 kills. Chattanooga and Davidson battled closely in game one, and the ’Cats trailed just 22-21 following a 5-2 run. The Mocs responded to the run with a smart timeout that propelled them to a close 30-27 win. The ’Cats could not overcome a slow start in the second game. The team fell behind 9-2 early and never recovered despite playing well for the rest of the game. The Mocs coasted to a 30-21 victory and the two-game advantage. In game three, Davidson got off to another slow start, but this time recovered nicely and played on their heels for most of the first period.The Wildcats came out energized in the second half. After only five in the second period, Lauren Conne '10. The Wildcats regained the momentum and held Vanderbilt from scoring for the rest of the second period. During overtime, Davidson finished off.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2007

Offensive dynamo Kyra Tiger forward collided while going for the ball. English received an inadvertent kick to the back of the head in the collision. The Wildcats even led for a vast majority of the game. Another kill by Pierucci gave the ’Cats a 17-15 lead, but the Mocs answered with four points of their own to take a 19-17 lead. The score was again even at 19, and the Lady Wildcats took a late lead following a block by Neale and a Pierucci ace. Chattanooga halted the rally with a timeout and put together a 7-1 run to take a commanding 26-22 lead. The ’Cats fought hard to the end but fell 30-25, sealing the victory for the Mocs. The weekend losses dropped Davidson’s record to 0-2 in the SoCon and 5-10 overall. The team hopes to end its slide this weekend when College of Charleston and the Citadel come to Belk Arena for two more SoCon showdowns Sept. 28 and 29 in Belk Arena.

Alison Drutchas '11 sent a long pass off a kick to Courtney Hart '10. Hart powered the ball into the top of the net to give the ’Cats a 1-0 advantage. Joy was short-lived, however, as Vanderbilt quickly went on the attack and English took her time to return to her feet. English would remain in the game. Davidson sealed its win in the second half with two goals within two minutes. At the 98:19 mark, captain Nancy Haskell '08 took a corner kick and fired it into the six-yard box where Blakely Lio '10 rose above the Vanderbilt defense and headed the ball into the net. With the win, Davidson secured its first multiple-game win streak of the season.

"We started overtime very aggressive and we deserved every minute we got," said Ashton. The Wildcat defense preserved English's second shutout of the season. 

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School
Best Lawyers in America '84-'06
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals
Adjunct professor of trial advocacy Duke Law School UNC Law School

Davidson secured its first multiple-game win streak of the season. At the 74:54 mark, Bye-Nagel raced past three defenders from midfield and tapped one into the net to put the Wildcats up 3-0. The Wildcat defense preserved English's second shutout of the season. "To get a win against a team of this caliber is Southern," said Ashton. Bye-Nagel was named Player of the Week and Haskell.

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. University of Richmond
Commissioner for the Town of Davidson '83-'85; '88-'97
Town of Davidson Commercial and North End Corridor Plan '05
Mecklenburg County Real Estate Executive Council '03 to present
Concentrating in Personal Injury
Other Areas of Practice: Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning, Litigation, Real Estate, Social Security Disability, Wills & Trusts

Law Firm
In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 269 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 992-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)