4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ross, from page 1

So they’re going to be involved in lots of different things. We need to make students understand that academics first and foremost are what’s most important for graduate schools and for jobs, and that perhaps being involved in fewer things with more depth is really more appealing to employers and to graduate schools. I think all that will help. But figuring out how to do that, what would be involved in providing appropriate support, are some mechanical steps we can take in terms of looking at how easy it is to create new organizations, and how many organizations we have, and all those kinds of questions. I’ve noticed people in leadership positions struggling this time of year to try to find successors, and that’s symptomatic of an overstressed student population. But that’s only part of the question. What do you do about the mental health issues that come from the stress? Again, I think we’ve tried to address that in some ways by counseling, but it still may not be enough, so we need to continue that, and we will be continuing that.

D: How do you balance the academic rigor of Davidson with an active social and extracurricular lifestyle?

TR: That’s a really tough question because I think it’s a struggle that all of us have: how to balance all the different aspects of our lives. Our work with our service obligations, our responsibilities with our personal interests and passions, our families, all of those aspects of our lives. How do you manage in a way that allows you that balance? And I think it’s a real problem in society today because we have so much information, we have so many opportunities, and we are, I think, in a time in which people feel driven to participate in all sorts of different things. It creates a mindset that if you’re not busy doing something, you feel guilty that you’re wasting time. We don’t value time to reflect as much as we should. We don’t value time spent enjoying 75-degree days in the middle of December. And that is hard. Part of what I was talking about a few minutes ago was about thinking through how we can make students understand time management and help support their effort to try to create that balance and how to provide examples ourselves in how to create that balance.

I don’t know that I’m a good example. People walk by, they see my light on, almost every night in [my office in Chambers] working, and is that creating the best example? I don’t think it is. I need help with that life balance as well. I think part of it is recognizing that you have an issue, and, second, trying to figure out what’s most important in life and how we prioritize those important things. I think Davidson students are so committed as people that it’s very hard for them to say “no.” That’s the struggle we all have—how do you say enough’s enough? Part of it is giving yourself permission to not always be involved, and not always be working, and not always say “yes.” It’s a hard permission slip to get, but one I think we all need to take advantage of more often.

D: The conflict between the faculty and Patterson Court brought up issues of faculty influence in College policies. How influential do you think the faculty should be in the decisions of the College?

TR: I think these are community issues that ought to be talked about by everybody. Without getting into who has or should have the decision-making authority—I think the more important question is, if you want to make a community where people truly do care about each other, are accepting of each other, and want to help each other be happy, then that requires people first to understand that they sometimes first need to compromise to be sure that everyone’s needs are met and accommodated in some fashion. Again, I come back to the faculty-student forums and am hopeful that it will help people understand each other’s needs. The faculty must understand exactly what students’ needs are and the students must likewise understand the faculty’s desire for an academic and personal environment that isn’t disruptive unnecessarily. So how that balance is struck, I think it’s something we need to work through together. I’m not sure that living by strict rules, noise ordinances and that sort of thing, is the most effective way to create a community, so I’m looking to try to help stimulate discussion to make a community, and I think that’s where the answers will come from.

D: How do you explain the recent destructive acts on campus, thefts and the racial slur in Belk? Beyond having hall meetings after Christmas break, how can we prevent such

Light-rail, from page 1

18,100 daily weekday riders. On Nov. 24, the light-rail handled 34,000 trips within the first hour—emphasizing the popularity, and probably the publicity, that the light-rail commands. There had been roughly 60,000 trips by the end of the day. The ribbon-cutting ceremony was held on Monday, Nov. 19 at the Charlotte Transportation Center-Arena Station on Fifth St., where local leaders were able to be the first to ride the system. “This is important for everyone because it provides more mobility and there’s only so much we can widen South Blvd. and other roads throughout Charlotte and we have to have choices,” Charlotte Mayor Pat McCrory said at the cutting. “There are many, many years left until the rail system is expected to be done in 2025 or 2030, and I hope everybody will understand the importance of working with their elected representatives, their policymakers, to get the kind of system they want,” Mecklenburg County Commissioner Parks Helms said. Even though the impact of the light-rail project is minimal in Charlotte andits projection into Davidson is hugely opposed, it is a step forward for the city. If the other four spokes of the system are built and become effective, it would mean a large cut-back in vehicle use and much-needed lessening of traffic congestion on I-77 and I-85.

Courtesy photo
Light Rail will soon come to Davidson

D: How do you explain these poisonous acts?

TR: I can’t explain the acts. They’re inexplicable in many ways. We have no idea who did them, why they did them, so they’re impossible for me to try to explain. I felt it important to try to make a statement to everybody, which was going well beyond addressing it on a hall basis. It is important to first make a statement to the entire community and then say, “This is not the kind of community that people want to live in.” The only way to reach the kind of community that I would like to see us have is through understanding and discussion of these issues. It goes right back to what I said at the Opening Convocation and what I tried to say the day I came here, is that people have to be able to describe the kind of community they want and they have to be willing to work at getting it.

We’re going to start by doing some discussions. It’s easy to start by working with halls, and we’re going to do that when we come back next semester and I’m hoping that people will think about these things while they’re gone and that they don’t lose sight of them and that it’s just a one-time thing. Maybe it’s just a one-time thing, but whatever caused it, whatever made someone do that, it’s symptomatic of at least one person who we need to figure out how to reach out to and bring into the community. I hope it’s not a very widespread issue—I don’t think it is. But one incident is one too many.

D: How do you foresee Davidson changing over time with Town development? How can Davidson College be proactive and take advantage of Town development so that we are a part of the change instead of simply witnessing change happening around us?

TR: Well, I think the role of the College has to be one of cooperating with the Town. I give the Town some level of credit for the development that’s occurred, occurring in generally a good way. That is, by making green space, trying to make it a walkable community, trying to be responsible in terms of outgrowth and housing developments and all of those kinds of things. I think they’re working very hard to try to preserve the character of the downtown, the small-town/college-town feel. And I think the College has a great interest in that. It’s important to us and our future that that environment be maintained.

I think we will see changes in the future. Light rail comes into town, right up behind Main St. That’s going to create a difference. It’s going to create immediate access, easy access, into Charlotte and to other places they might want to go or need to go. But it will change the character of the community and we need to think through that together with the Town. I’m having dinner tonight [Tuesday] with the old and new members of the council to try to begin reaching out to them. I said in my announcement last spring that it was something I wanted to do, and I’ve been trying to do that with them. And trying to do it in Charlotte because I think it is very important for us to be engaged in these issues. We have no cause to complain if we’re not engaged. It’s definitely something I’m interested in, and we’re definitely affected by it. We’re affected by the traffic. We’re affected by opportunities for downtown development, to give students more access to more things and to make them more comfortable. I think all of that’s going to be important for us to be a part of.

D: We’ve noticed that your answers often include fostering a community through discussion and discourse together. What is the relation between those discussions and taking action, as you see it?

TR: It depends from issue to issue, but it’s a philosophy that I have found. I have spent most of my life as the person who makes decisions without any input, so I know how to make decisions, and I know how to make them in controversial situations. On the other hand, I’ve learned that the best decisions are decisions that people have had the opportunity to provide their input toward, and that have been thought out by lots of different minds and that have had lots of minds looking at the problems and issues and solutions. What generally happens is that better solutions are made, they’re made with more consensus, and even to the extent that people disagree with them, they feel heard, they feel their voices were a part of what happened and consequently are more willing to accept the calls.

My thinking has always been that communities are better, decisions are better, when there is involvement and shared decision-making and therefore shared responsibility and shared commitment to the outcomes. That produces a better result. That’s the theme with which I approach things. There comes a time when a decision must be made, and I fully understand what my role is, what the Trustees’ role is, what the College’s role is, what the Town’s role is. I have a good handle on who has the decision-making authority. When the time comes to make those decisions, the appropriate authority needs to make them. I just want to be sure that everyone has all the information, that they’ve been heard, and that all the constituents have a chance to be heard.