4 THE DAVIDSONIAN — NEWS

place too much emphasis on material goods when assessing a person’s worth

Pastor uses humor to highlight identity crisis

By KELLY BEGGS
Staff Writer

Sex and candy are not words that one would typically expect in a pastor’s lecture about finding true identity. However, the motorcycle-riding, electronic-Bible-toting pastor Eric Sandras included both of these words in his lecture last Sunday. Sandras is far from the typically austere leaders that most associate with Christianity. On his church’s website, Sandras describes himself as “bald, bold and biblical,” exemplifying his playful blend of humor and holiness. A teaching pastor at the Desert Vineyard Church in Lancaster, Ca., Sandras has a doctorate in Human and Family relations, and spent a decade teaching Human Sexuality and Human Development at Oregon State University. Sandras has also written three books, including “Buck-Naked Faith: A Brutally Honest Look at Stunted Christianity,” “Plastic Jesus: Exposing the Hollowness of Comfortable Christianity,” and “Mystics, Mavericks and Miracle Workers: A 30 Day Journey with Some Saints.”

Sandras began by discerning between the sunny, palm-tree-lined paradise of Hollywood that many associate with California, and the reality of a large homeless population and a powerful pornography industry that are often overlooked. However, he does not find this reality disheartening. “God’s light is best birthed in the darkest places,” Sandras said, revealing that he is currently providing marriage counseling to two members of his church who have recently left the porn industry.

Sandras also discussed the issue of identity in his lecture. He said that the false unstable identity that most people rely on is founded on three factors: what you do, what you have and what others say about you. He expanded by explaining how in his personal experiences, people define each other and themselves by their professions. “It’s amazing to me how your value as a human changes with a Ph.D,” Sandras said. The value gained from one’s career is not authentic in Sandras’ opinion. As an example, Sandras played four Bud Light commercials which mockingly praise “Mr. Pro-Wrestling Wardrobe Designer,” “Mr. Toilet Paper Refiller” and other job titles. Commercials assign people value based on their jobs, and though these cases are exaggerated for humor’s sake, they point very accurately to a serious flaw in our culture’s logic.

Sandras also pointed to our society’s constant desire for things, even admitting to his own personal addiction of buying the newest cell phones. However, our society’s tendency to base someone’s self-worth on their material possessions is all too common. Sandras told a story about being surrounded by the Washington State women’s basketball team and he felt self-conscious about his height. To drive the point home, Sandras belted out the “Oompahlumpah” song to comically reenact his insecurity.

Sandras’ third root of false identity is identity based on what others say. He spoke about how one criticism or personal attack can derail an individual’s day, week, month and even life from its course. People’s opinions and words have a strong effect. If someone says that something is “wrong” with a person, human nature will oftentimes drive that person to try to disprove or correct that something until they are “right.”

The common problem in the three factors Sandras identifies is that they are inherently insecure. In lieu of this, Sandras gave the audience three secure identity strongholds. Through Christianity, Sandras says people can find secure identities that do not depend on superficial labels, possessions or standards. The first is God’s missional purpose, as Sandras reminded the audience of their responsibility to the marginalized and the poor. He quoted Bono of U2 who said that “the poor are where God lives.”

To help explain the second part of his identity cure, Sandras demonstrated God’s lavish nature by naming all of the different flavors of jelly-bellies, and then asked the audience if anyone wanted one. Excited over the upgrade from stale wafers, a woman accepted his offer, and Sandras promptly gave her an up close and personal prodigal experience, proceeding to pour an entire container of jelly beans over the woman’s head.

After the jelly-belly shower, Sandras revealed the third root of true identity: God’s relentless pursuit. Sandras stated that God’s goodness and mercy are relentlessly pursuing the human race, and humans only have to accept His pursuit. In Sandras’ opinion, rooting identity in God will end the identity crisis of our society by providing people with secure and authentic identities. His cure is essentially faith, an idea not radically different from traditional Christian ideas.

Kristin Booher, assistant director of Lilly Programs, says that she does not believe that Sandras fundamentally differs from other pastors. “He bases his work in the Gospel. He believes in reaching out to those around us and in growing in our faith and the Word,” Booher said. “He does an exceptionally good job at making theology accessible.” What Sandras showed in Sunday night’s speech is that while he may preach traditional Christianity, he’s not afraid to stray from traditional methods.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2008

Shift to pacifism marks new era of foreign policy

By Krista TIMEUS
Staff Writer

Though his visit to Davidson was brief, German diplomat Karsten D. Voigt’s lecture titled “Current Trends in Transatlantic Relations” successfully illuminated new diplomatic trends between the United States and Germany.Voigt, Coordinator of German-North American Cooperation at the German Federal Foreign Office, shared his knowledge and experience in transatlantic relations with a crowd of more than 100 members of the Davidson community. Voigt lauded the liberal arts tradition, commenting that it serves as an important gateway for careers in politics and international relations, due to the premium that the liberal arts philosophy places on international awareness. Voigt acknowledged a changing German attitude regarding external and internal policy, a shift that has completely redefined its role in the global political arena. “In the election of 2004, 70 percent of Germans would have voted for Kerry and less than 30 percent would have voted for Bush. Only one demographic group voted that way in the United States: American Jews. That’s how much we’ve changed,” Voigt said. The face of German politics has changed drastically in recent years, to the point where some countries view its current role in world politics as too soft, particularly in its response to the war on terror. Voigt explained this in terms of the post-1989 redefinition of German politics, which has focused on domestic rather than foreign issues. “Some of our neighbors in the European Union think that Germany’s shift to pacifism was too successful,” Voigt said jokingly. “We are not soft, we just have a different way of viewing war. This is all new to us; we are not used to looking outside our borders.” That is, of course, because conflict and war came from within Europe, particularly from within Germany itself, for the first half of the 20th century. According to Voigt, it is hard to view the War on Terror as an actual war because, unlike previous wars, it is not being fought on German soil, a feeling with which Americans are unfamiliar. The Germans wearily yet closely follow American foreign policy, expressing a need to know what is happening on the other side of the Atlantic and evaluate how that would affect their own policy. “Germans are observing every aspect of the American Presidential elections,” Voigt said. “They want something new, as much as Americans do. Sometimes even more.” Christoph Pross ’10, an international student from Germany, agrees with Voigt. “Germany’s European neighbors want a stronger and more involved Germany in Europe and in the world, because they feel they can all benefit from it. While such an idea goes against traditional attitudes towards Germany, it is an important issue, particularly due to the country’s difficult position in the geographical center of Europe.” Voigt added that, while American influence is declining, it is still the one world power that everyone turns to for answers. Due to this, its leadership must be consistently strong regarding issues such as climate change and terrorism. “I would like a strong U.S. in all three areas, [economic, politics, and military] because it is in both our interests to have each other be strong,” Voigt said. “While we [Germans] have changed and have different values, we must still work together. Time has run out for the U.S. to solve global problems alone. Time is running out for the U.S. and Europe to solve them. Democracies across the world won’t win from us competing against each other.” While students had varying thoughts on the lecture afterward, Voigt’s presence on campus was appreciated, reflecting Davidson’s commitment to international awareness and dialogue. As a new generation of world leaders is educated, it is important that Americans pay attention to how the United States is viewed abroad and what is expected of it, particularly during this year’s Presidential elections.

Write for News!!!!

DLC, from page 3

The DLC targets fourth grade classrooms because it is a time when students have mastered basic learning skills such as reading and writing, and are able to use these skills to make connections with the outside world. The fourth graders “aren’t old enough to think the game is lame, but they are advanced enough to understand its concepts and greater significance,” Epstein said. By continuing to teach only the fourth grade, the conservancy project will have a chance to teach a new group of children every year. Another participant, Lauren Leonard ’10, says that the most rewarding part of volunteering is interacting with the students. “The kids are a lot of fun and get really excited to have college students in their classes. They approach environmental issues without any of the cynicism that a lot of older people have, and think it’s really cool that they can do lots of little things to care for the environment all on their own. It’s really rewarding to watch them figure out all the ways in which their actions affect their environment,” Leonard said. Epstein feels similarly about the students’ reactions. “I really love getting to interact with the local schools. Kids in these classes are really excited about learning about Davidson and about having Davidson College students interested in teaching them,” she said. The program takes place at schools that are located in and around Davidson. Previous participants include fourth graders at Davidson Day, The Woodlawn School, The Community School, and Davidson Elementary. The program is usually able to cover one or two schools per semester and can teach a varying amount of one-hour sessions, depending on the number of fourth grade classes present in each participating school.