12 ™h iti (each By Patrick McARDLE THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2007

Mantuo’s catch seals Homecoming win, 21-20

Sports Editor Kenny Mantuo ’11 could not have picked a better time for his first career touchdown catch. His first
collegiate score allowed Davidson to overcome three turnovers and a sluggish second half to rally for the 21-20 victory over
local rival Lenoir-Rhyne on Homecoming Saturday in Richardson Stadium.

After Davidson went three and out on the opening series, the Bears drove 55 yards to the Wildcats’ one-yard line.
On the verge of scoring, Lenoir-Rhyne lost possession when Wildcat nose guard Will Funderburg ’09 stripped the ball from Bears’
running back James Pone. Cornerback Patrick Fitzgerald ’08 recovered the fumble in the end zone resulting in the touchback.

On the ensuing drive, Davidson’s offense put together an 8-play, 80-yard drive that concluded with a 24-yard TD strike from
Matt McGreevy ’08 to Beaux Jones ’08. McGreevy, starting his second straight game for the injured Ryan Alexander ’08, passed
for 238 yards and two touchdowns. The extra point kick by Cody Elder ’08 pushed the ’Cats first quarter lead
to 7-0.

Davidson carried its lead into the second quarter, but it didn’t take long for the Bears to respond. On the
second play of the quarter, Andrew Courman darted through the Wildcats defense for a 26-yard touchdown run to knot the
score at seven. The teams traded possessions until ’Cats fullback Kirk Benedict ’10 punched the ball into the end zone
from one yard out to cap another impressive 80-yard drive. The PAT extended Davidson’s lead to 14-7 with 7:20 to
go in the half.

Lenoir-Rhyne missed a chance to shrink the lead before halftime when Andrew Coln’s field goal attempt sailed wide left, preserving
a 14-7 halftime advantage for Davidson.

Lenoir-Rhyne opened the second half with a successful drive that led to a Coln field goal, shrinking the Bears’ deficit
to four. Both teams exchanged punts for the remainder of the third quarter. Davidson’s slim fourth quarter lead evaporated when
Lamont Savage scored from five yards to give LRC its first lead of the game with 14:29 to play. The
’Cats offense could not build momentum on their next possession and were forced to punt. On the Bears’ next possession,
Coln converted his second field goal to push the score to 20-14.

The ’Cats offense stalled for the second straight possession, but the Davidson defense changed the momentum in the next series.
The Wildcat defense stuffed three straight runs to force a punt and give the offense one last chance. Fitzgerald fair
caught Travis Rigdon’s punt at the Davidson 21 giving the ’Cats 3:04 to find the end zone. On the very
next play McGreevy found a streaking Kirk Konert ’09 up the sideline for a 52-yard gain. Konert finished with 100
yards receiving on the day, the most for a Wildcat since Ryan Hubbard ’08 had 189 yards receiving in the
2006 season finale against Butler.

Two plays later, McGreevy connected with Mantuo on a 24-yard strike to tie the score at 20 with less than
two minutes remaining in regulation. Elder’s PAT proved to be the difference as the ’Cats took a one-point lead. Lenoir-Rhyne
drove down to the Davidson 40-yard line where the team faced a crucial 3rd-and-6. Bears’ quarterback Daniel Anderson completed a
10-yard pass to Pete Goodman for the first down, but ’Cats linebacker Peter Bakke ’09 leveled Goodman causing the ball
to come loose. Strong safety Tyler Lemons ’10 recovered the fumble to seal the dramatic one-point Davidson victory, the first
home win over Lenoir-Rhyne since 1973.

“We have to improve our tackling on defense and run the ball more consistently on offense,” Merritt said. The Wildcats
have a bye.Week before entering conference play Sept. 29 at Jacksonville.

Soccer snaps losing streak with 3-1 home win

By ZACH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Over the past few weeks, the women’s soccer team has struggled offensively, being held scoreless in last weekend’s two-game road
trip to Colorado where they played Air Force and Colorado College. Luckily, the scoring drought came to an abrupt halt
over the weekend, as Davidson defeated the Mercer Bears 3-1.

Davidson’s change of fortune did not occur spontaneously. Captains Bevin English ’08, Nancy Haskell ’08, and Kristin Koehrn ’08 demonstrated
their leadership on and off the field to spark their underperforming team. In the pregame meeting, the captains spoke to
catalyze the dormant team, stressing pride and leadership, especially in light of Homecoming weekend.

“My hope is for all of us to play as if we never will again because a team is at
its best when everyone is playing like there’s no tomorrow,” Koehrn said before the game.

Davidson needed to hit the field running, especially with its lackluster history against Mercer. The soccer team had not played
the Bears since 1992 when they lost in a 3-1 decision and had never defeated Mercer in any of their
previous four meetings. Thanks in large part to the seniors, history was not repeated, and the losing streak snapped.

The scoring for Davidson started early in the first half, when Kyrie Bye-Nagel ’11 received a pass at the top
of the box. She swiftly navigated past a Mercer defender and powered in a shot to the far side of
the goal to put the team up 1-0 at the 7:53 mark. This lead proved to be fleeting when, only
six minutes later at the 13:47 mark, Mercer’s Courtney Maxey executed a cross into the goalie’s box that her teammate
Catie Marshalek managed to head into the back of the net. The defenses stifled both offenses the rest of the
half, keeping the score knotted at one apiece.

“My hope is for all of us to play as if we never will again...”
--Kristin Koehrn ’08, in a pregame speech.

Both teams continued to play solid defense in the second half, yet the Bears won the battle of ball control
for most of the half. Mercer possessed the ball for most of the second half, acquiring nine shots on goal
before the Wildcats changed the momentum and opened the offensive floodgates using aggressive tactics. At the 61:27 mark, Koehrn hit
a shot that deflected off of the top post from 18 yards out and Lauren Connor ’10 furtively slid past
the defense for her second goal of the year. The Wildcats scored again at the 70:03 mark to finish off
the Bears when Amanda Flink ’11 retrieved a corner kick and darted one into the net with a southpaw stroke.
Flink’s timely game-winner was her first collegiate goal.

The soccer team improved to 2-0 at Alumni Stadium for the second year in a row. Goalie Bevin English ’08
added eight saves to her season total to continue her climb up the all-time saves list. Next weekend the team
faces Vanderbilt and LSU in a tournament at the College of Charleston.

Photo courtesy of Sports Info.
Amanda Flink ’11 scored the game-winner against Mercer. It was her first collegiate goal.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Kenny Mantuo ’11 Catch to Secure the Victory

Reeling in his first collegiate touchdown, the freshman receiver Mantuo caught a Matt McGreevey ’08 pass to score the game-winning
touchdown against Lenoir-Rhyne on Homecoming Weekend.

Player of the Week
Caroline Sanker ’09
Cross Country
Hometown: Rocky River, OH

Sanker set a school record at the Winthrop Invitational for the 5K, running the 3.1-mile race in 17:12. Her winning
time helped propel the Cross Country team to its first victory of the fall.
