THE DAVIDSONIAN

Forgotten freedom... the Right to vote

ZEKE WEBSTER » Guest Columnist

America is a nation of generational firsts: the first nuclear bomb, the first man on the moon, and the first
how-to book for murdering your ex-wife. Our generation? We will be remembered as the generation that forgot Freedom.

Centuries ago, our forefathers flocked to this “new world” like a vicious swarm of locusts because they dreamt of a
land where every white European, Christian male would be free to live without persecution (excluding, of course, the Catholics). However,
as time passed, Americans eventually forgot the reasons behind crossing the Atlantic in the first place: Freedom. But what exactly
is Freedom, other than an inadequate excuse to invade other countries? Freedom used to be an inherent right to self-deterministic
existence; however, any college student knows that this definition is, like most important things in life, boring and largely unlikely
to get you any.

Freedom has become cake and fireworks. Freedom is trying to freebase bubble-wrap and as a result waking up in a
hospital days later wondering who you are. Freedom is electrocuting your testicles and putting the video on YouTube. Freedom is
doing the awkward turtle as well as cracking “Your Mom” jokes. Freedom is trying to break the world record of
how many Doritos can be shoved up a nose. Freedom is Scientology (which is also depressing). Freedom is getting piss-drunk
and then slashing a cop’s tires while he’s still in the car to prove something (you don’t really remember what).
In short, practicing Freedom has largely evolved into people carrying out dumb acts just because they cannot believe they are
allowed to do them.

The freaky thing is that most people are amenable with this interpretation of Freedom. We've lost the American ideal, which
wasn’t originally envisioned as seeing how drunk we have to get before flashing a senator seems like a really good
idea. Those are valid exercises of Freedom and just some of the reasons why America is awesome. But we tend
to forget that there are inherent responsibilities and duties that accompany Freedom’s greatness, and contrary to what politicians may say,
these duties never require force. Marking a ballot or being knowledgeable is enough.

Snapple fact: In the 2004 U.S. presidential elections, only 60.93% of eligible voters exercised their right to influence the course
of history (and of those, 50.7% made the wrong choice anyway). This was celebrated as a record voter turnout. Conversely,
in Afghanistan’s last presidential elections the turnout was 83.7%. France had 79.7%, Borat-zakhstan had 76.8%, and even Russia had a
turnout of 64.4%—their lowest turnout ever.

We almost found it in the 60s when Americans became involved in activism, humanitarianism, and Scooby Doo. Some people also
became far too hooked on LSD and not taking showers, but the point is that it wasn’t too late then
for change, and it’s not too late today. The future is an uncertain affair because, unlike the past, we have
the means to determine what it will become: whether we choose to accept or shirk our responsibility as members of
a democratic nation will determine how we are remembered as a people and a culture centuries from today. And it
rests primarily on us—fresh college youths—to initiate the changes that we so desperately need.

Primary elections are coming up with the presidential elections not long after. It’s time to put down the Maxim, pick
up the news, and do it like they do on the C-SPAN channel. Know the candidates and their policies, so
that when you’re 90 years old and dying alone in a nursing home, you’ll remember Election Day as more than
the day you got your stomach pumped for the first time.

Don’t be That Guy. Get out. Vote.

Clemmons, N.C.
zekewebster@davidson.edu

PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2007

Letters from abroad

Past and present fuse in modern-day China

MICHELLE JESTER » Guest Columnist

Bronze dragons. Golden-tiled flying eaves. Brilliantly colored silk robes. Giant porcelain vases ornamented with jade. Although the Chinese have one
of the oldest and richest cultures in the world, China certainly is not the country it once was. It is
rapidly developing into a Westernized nation, relegating its historical and cultural relics to secluded parks and museums. Even “small” cities
of two million people have skyscrapers (not to mention Shanghai, which is probably 10 years ahead of New York in
terms of architecture and public transportation). China also has the second largest population of Internet users in the world and
is expected to surpass the United States in the near future. And most Chinese, from international businessmen to common laborers,
own cell phones.

While the rest of the world may be in awe of China’s great architectural feats and historical sites, the Chinese
would rather boast that they now have McDonald’s and Kentucky Fried Chicken (because apparently that establishes a country as a
modernized nation). As the Chinese rapidly modernize, they seem to sacrifice their traditional culture and way of life. Although the
Chinese have one of the oldest and richest cultures in the world, China certainly is not the country it once
was.

On the other hand, westernization and modernization have done wonders for many Chinese people. Women have the right to marry
whomever they please and are theoretically able to pursue any career, although it is still very difficult for women to
obtain certain jobs. More children can attend school and college. Overall, China’s standard of living...has risen significantly due to its
“reform and opening” policy. But not all is red roses in modernized China. Because China’s economy is developing at such
a rapid pace, the Chinese can’t help but “look towards money.” The majority of Chinese people have money on their
minds and will capitalize on any opportunity to make a small profit. Once tranquil and revered sites, such as the
Great Wall and the Forbidden City, are now infested with masses of street stalls and insistent vendors trying to make
a pretty penny. Their minds might be focused on the future economic development of China, but their hearts still hold
true to the past. Southern China’s unique ethnic minorities, such as the Yao (famous for their women’s seven-feet-long hair) and
the Mosu (the only practicing matriarchy in the world), are degrading their cultural heritage by selling postcards and petty trinkets.
Job pressures have increased on both men and women, which in turn raises the divorce rate and the number of
primary boarding schools for their children. Increasingly, five-year-old children are sent to boarding schools and only see their parents on
the weekends. While this may seem like a dreary situation, the true essence of China still lies with its people.
The Chinese are some of the most warm-hearted and jovial people I have ever met. In fact, some of my
fondest memories are simply talking with locals while sipping oolong or green tea, chatting with garrulous cab drivers and dancing
traditional dances with children. One of my favorite activities in China is to go to a park on a Sunday
morning and watch countless groups of people sing, dance, paint and play musical instruments. Their minds might be focused on
the future economic development of China, but their hearts still hold true to the past.

Michelle Jester ’09 is a Chinese major from Rome, GA. Contact her at mijester@davidson.edu.

Heed Petraeus’ recommendation on Iraq

Bobby DeSpain
Guest Columnist

General Petraeus has not made many new friends. Having endured the scorn of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, the general
is off again to the sands of Mesopotamia—to stoke the fire feeding his own personal frying pan. His long-awaited recommendations
last week came at a time of rising anti-war sentiment in the nation. A few questions rest on the minds
of a war-weary people: Has the so-called “surge” produced any results? Has our presence produced any political progress? And, most
prominently, when can we bring our troops home? Petraeus’ report, given alongside Ambassador Ryan Crocker, answered the questions with a
clear and resounding “yes and no.” The general cited furtive progress in Iraq, claiming that violence toward both American troops
and Iraqi civilians has declined since December 2006, particularly in Baghdad. Sunni militias have begun to turn against al-Qaeda and
cooperate with U.S. forces in the Anbar province. Shia cleric Muqtada al-Sadr has declared a six-month moratorium on all Mahdi
Army combat operations. In the face of these heartening statistics, Petraeus suggested a withdrawal of 30,000 troops by the end
of 2008, but an indefinite presence beyond that.

So why is the Hill unconvinced? First of all, Petraeus seemed a bit optimistic. While these developments appear good, they
are by no means indicative of success or failure in Iraq. It’s simply too early to tell. Second, the surge
has been a mostly military maneuver and has not been coupled enough with Iraqi politics. If anything, Iraq is worse
off politically than it was at the time of its free elections in 2005. The Shia, Sunni and Kurds have
splintered into their respective ethnic corners, raising the specter of state dismemberment. Fears of outright civil war and even genocide
abound. What is a country to do when stuck in quicksand of its own making? Should it struggle to pull
out its troops as fast as possible? Or should it stay and fix the mess it made? Given our recent
history, this is a difficult question to answer with any degree of confidence. U.S. intervention during the latter half of
the twentieth century has been pockmarked with mishaps and humanitarian disasters. Realpolitik has at its root self-interest: our will above
the well-being of the occupied communities. Repelling communists in Latin America and Asia in the 70s left many of the
affected countries in civil war, while even humanitarian missions in places like Somalia did little to solve existing problems. Interventions
have been shortsighted and, very often, calamitous. Perhaps our failure in these engagements was not caused by our actions, but
rather by their cessation. Staying in Iraq and working to strengthen its institutions is our obligation to a country whose
civil society we crushed. There can be little doubt, four years on, that invading Iraq was a poor decision—one that
has cost many lives. But leaving Iraq now will cost more. A quick withdrawal of U.S. troops would allow the
burgeoning civil war to boil over, causing endemic human suffering. Withdrawing from Iraq in the near future may give Iran
a greater foothold in the region and open the country for al-Qaeda to operate even more freely. Staying in Iraq
and working to strengthen its institutions is our obligation to a country whose civil society we crushed. The Iraq War
is no longer an ideological struggle but rather a humanitarian effort that requires extended and focused commitment. So give Petraeus
a chance. Despite his “spun results” and cautious optimism, he has a point. Our responsibility is not only to our
men and women on the ground but also to the Iraqi people who they are trying to help. Though we
shouldn’t have been in Iraq in the first place, we’re there now. Leaving soon would not avoid disaster: it would
enable it.

Bobby DeSpain ’11 is undeclared. He is from St. Louis, MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.
