4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ross, from page 1

The Davidsonian: If you could take any course at Davidson, what would you take?

Susan Ross: I think I would take Humanities just because of the broad scope it provides.

D: What was President Ross like when you got married?

SR: He had longish hair and a mustache which he kept until I guess after the elections in 1982. He had gold wire-rim glasses kind of like John Lennon’s glasses, and he would buy two pairs of corduroy Levis for winter and two pairs of jeans for the summer, and that was it (laughs).

D: What kind of music did you listen to in college?

SR: Well, at that time we listened to beach music. We loved the Beatles...and just the music of the era.

D: Do you watch YouTube videos?

SR: I have two brothers, and they must have a lot of time to spend on the internet. One sent me a video today that I love with a woman dancing with her golden retriever in a kennel club competition and (laughs)...that’s just the happiest dog you’ve ever seen, and well-behaved, unlike one dog I know (looking at her own golden retriever, Chelsea).

D: So you’re a dog person?

SR: Yes, I’m a dog person. We’ve had seven dogs. But growing up we had mostly cats. We had one cat that had 99 kittens, and she had one litter before we got her. These kittens were Halloween treats, Christmas presents, birthday presents: any way we could give them away.

D: What has been most difficult about the move to Davidson?

SR: Unpacking, and having time to sort. It will be a while; it’s hard to find a block of time to go and do that. We have to unpack, think through it and then a lot of it we have to repack.

D: How much of the interior of your new house are you responsible for furnishing?

SR: Downstairs is provided by the college, and upstairs we furnish. It’s three bedrooms, a study for me and a study for Tom. Small kind of den, eating area and a little kitchen. So we had to downsize quite a bit. And the way movers pack defies reason. You open a box and it’s like Christmas—you have no idea what’s in there.

D: What strikes you as most different about college life today, and how it contrasts with your college experience?

SR: My college experience was very different from the Davidson...college experience. Today, I think there are a lot more opportunities, particularly at Davidson, to get involved with the community and the world, and I think that is fantastic. There are more opportunities to explore different areas, to study without committing to one in particular. And certainly more opportunities for women are available.

“Today, I think there are a lot more opportunities, particularly at Davidson, to get involved with the community and the world, and I think that is fantastic. There are more opportunities to explore different areas, to study without committing to one in particular.” --Mrs. Susan Ross

D: When did you first set foot on the Davidson College campus?

SR: 1970. I was visiting Tom. And women stayed in the basement of the Guest House. They had it set up like a dorm.

D: How did you meet Tom?

SR: We ran a summer recreation program together. We had never met; it was a large church. We went to different high schools in Greensboro.

D: So did you know of each other before that?

SR: No, but our parents knew each other (laughs).

D: Do you have a favorite Ben & Jerry’s Ice Cream flavor?

SR: I really don’t. I don’t eat much ice cream.

D: Do you exercise, and if so, what do you like to do?

SR: I walk for about an hour every morning with Chelsea and Tom, and I enjoy Pilates and aerobics.

D: Do you have a favorite candidate in the upcoming presidential elections?

SR: I’m struggling with that. I don’t think I should commit because I’m not totally sure. Now I have my opinions about who can’t win, but I don’t know who can. And I’d certainly like to support a winning candidate. We have a lot of ground to cover before the election.

D: Do you and Tom ever support different candidates, or are you always on the same page?

SR: We’re always on the same page.

D: How do you want to get involved in the Town of Davidson?

SR: I love the feel of downtown Davidson. We'd like to see that preserved and promoted. I love what goes on at the little park over the summer. As far as the community, there are so many things going on here and I really need to explore them. Our daughter just got married a week ago, and we’re recovering from that, and I know there are so many things at Ada Jenkins that I could do to get involved with. I just stepped down as Board Chair at a food bank for Northwest North Carolina, and I enjoyed it, but I don’t want to be on the board. I want to do more hands-on work. I need to find the right fit, and I want to explore Ada Jenkins.

History, psychology, sociology, film, environmental studies, women’s studies, public policy, literature, economics, politics, art history.

COME TO AN INFORMATIONAL MEETING
SEPTEMBER 19
4 P.M.
STUDY ABROAD OFFICE

If you are unable to attend this meeting, please contact your study abroad advisor.

The Swedish Program, Hamilton College, 198 College Hill Road, Clinton, New York 13323
info@swedishprogram.org
(315) 737-0123
www.swedishprogram.org