THE DAVIDSONIAN

Gore unworthy of Nobel

Alfred Nobel’s will allocated funds to reward “the person who shall have done the most or the best work for fraternity between nations, for the abolition or reduction of standing armies and for the holding and establishment of peace congresses.” It is clear from Mr. Nobel’s will that he wanted the Peace Prize to be awarded based on achievements toward peace.

Bobby DESPAIN

What does scaring people about global warming have to do with peace? Has Al Gore’s campaign for global warming awareness saved lives? Did the screenings of his movie end tyrannical rule in North Korea, Iran, or Venezuela? Did his speeches promote fraternity in Darfur or free elections in Iraq? Al Gore has not achieved any of these things.

The Nobel committee said that Al Gore and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) were recipients “for their efforts to build up and disseminate greater knowledge about man-made climate change and to lay the foundations for the measures that are needed to counteract such change,” but perhaps they meant something different. Maybe they evaluated his entire life to find his peace efforts.

Al Gore represented Tennessee from 1976 to 1984 as a congressman and then as a senator from 1984 to 1993. He was then the vice-president of the United States until 2000. In 2000, he ran for president, lost, called for a recount, lost, sued and still lost. Gore made a movie in 2006 that won an Academy Award in 2007. None of these things make him an especially noteworthy advocate of peace. The committee, though, apparently thought this work equal to Mother Teresa’s promotion of peace.

Al Gore and the IPCC are not surprise winners. The prize committee has not hesitated in the past to select winners with questionable records of championing peace. The names Yasser Arafat, Jimmy Carter, and Kofi Annan come to mind. I have a hard time legitimizing an award for peace when a terrorist, the least effective U.S. president in history, and a corrupt man. Those winners, along with Al Gore, diminish the individuals who have actually deserved renown for their contributions to peace (i.e. Martin Luther King Jr., Elie Wiesel, and Mother Teresa).

It is not as if today’s world lacks individuals promoting and fighting for peace. Groups in Iran, China, Zimbabwe, Iraq, North Korea, Egypt, Lebanon, Syria, or Burma would have been ideal recipients. These groups, which sacrifice everything to obtain a sliver of liberty and peace, would have been supremely better choices than Al Gore and the IPCC. Thus, it seems that not winning the Nobel Peace Prize is a greater honor than winning it.

Bobby DesPain is undeclared. He is from St. Louis, MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.

Life on the Court
An Epic Poem by Andy Knauss

Chapter Two: Vanity

Meet college student X - that guy who loves beer
As he checks himself out in Terry's bathroom mirror:
For the past several hours X has, shall we say,
Put on an “impressive” binge-drinking display;
Impressive, since not many people can imbibe
As much booze as he has and still be alive.
And yet, while his friends lie passed out on the ground,
X is just getting warmed up for his night on the town.
Yes, his spirit is willing; however, flesh is weak,
Which is apparent in his drunken and disheveled physique:
His hair is a mess, his eyes bloodshot red,
He has the word “TOOL” scrawled across his forehead;
He isn’t wearing shoes (or pants for that matter),
And his shirt bears the stains of dried throw-up splatter;
He looks like a hobo and smells like a latrine
That's been stuffed with dead fish and drenched in gasoline;
His vision is blurred, his face flushed and aglow,
And in his fight against gravity he sways to and fro.
How can X, you may wonder, be in any position
To go out and party in such an awful condition?
The alcohol, you see, has so impaired his mentality
That he no longer has a firm grasp of reality;
An inverse relation emerged with each guzzled brew:
While his appearance declined, his confidence grew.
As X looks in the mirror, upon closer inspection
We see that he’s actually adoring his reflection!
In his addled state, X believes his complexion
Is nothing short of the image of perfection.
X stands in the bathroom a drunkard, a slob,
But his doppelgänger stares back an Adonis, a god.
X chuckles to himself, assured by the claim
That the girls will be all over his “studly” frame
(That happening has the same chance as a snowball in hell,
Unless, of course, the girls are wasted as well.)
This delusional conceit, at which even Narcissus would snort,
Makes vanity the second stop on our tour of the Court.

PERSPECTIVES

Letters from abroad
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2007

Bolivian children’s home life changing
Kim GORLE
Guest Columnist

This summer I spent eight weeks in Sipe Sipe, Bolivia, a small town outside of Cochabamba. I lived and worked at the Bolivia Life Center, a permanent home for street boys that currently houses 70 boys but has the capacity to house over 200.Center houses boys who watched their fathers beat their mothers to death, those who were left on street corners, and those who suffer brain damage because they were so severely beaten by their parents. Every story is different, but all are tragic. While in South America, I assisted in oral surgery, took boys to deplorable third-world hospitals, bought birthday presents for their girlfriends (some things are the same in every country), read “Where the Wild Things Are” or “Donde Viven los Monstruos” over and over, held the hands of the teenage boys as they poured out horrific stories, learned (well, attempted to learn) Bolivian break dancing, ate chicken heart, and rocked to sleep three-year-olds with STDs. Despite all the craziness, my life changed the most because of a nine-year-old boy named Marcelino Garcia.

Marcelino’s mom, a prostitute, abandoned him on the streets as a toddler. He went through several different homes before reaching the Life Center and has the STDs and the scars to show for it. He owes his life to his 13-year-old older brother Joel, who, despite his own youth, never abandoned his little brother. Marcelino has been at the Life Center since it opened four years ago but until May had been unable to bond with a female. Because of his history with his mother, Marcelino spent his life avoiding women. My second night in Bolivia, while we were at a bonfire, the tiny little boy plopped into my lap and fell asleep. For reasons I still don’t understand, we began a relationship unlike any that I’ve ever experienced. Some mornings, Marcelino would run to me, throw his arms around my neck, and call me “mama.” Other times, he ran screaming from me or told me he never wanted to see my face again. Still, other times he refused to do his chores without “100 besos de mi madrina Kimi” (100 kisses from my godmother Kimmie). This up-and-down relationship frustrated me, and I had no idea how to handle it. As I continued spending time with Marcelino, the good times began to increase while the angry episodes became fewer.

Early in the summer, I decided to sponsor Marcelino, which involves sending money and letters to him regularly in Bolivia. Sponsorship is a huge deal for the kids at the Life Center. I saw tons of letters and pictures of the boys’ “madrinas y padrinos” (what they call their sponsors) under pillows in their dorms. The first week I was in Bolivia, Marcelino’s feet were infected. The bottoms of his “pies” were covered in pus pockets the size of quarters; the infection’s smell almost knocked me over the first time I took off his socks. I washed his toes with hydrogen peroxide twice a day and bleached his socks by hand to make sure his feet were clean. One night I was going to be out in Cochabamba and thus unable to personally bring him some clean socks, so I left a note on his bed that told him I had left clean socks and that I loved him. Marcelino pulled out that note two nights before I returned to the U.S., demanding that I read it to him. I was amazed. I tried to convince him that, since it was only a note about socks, wouldn’t he rather read one of the books I had brought to his room? But he again asked me to read the note. After I read it to him, he smiled and put it back under his pillowcase (he didn’t have a pillow). I looked under the case and saw all the other notes I had written to him throughout the summer. He had kept everything.

During my last week, I had to pull him out of my bed multiple times. He begged to stay with me for “just one night.” The last night, he took my watch off my wrist and wrote his name on the band with a marker so I would never forget him. He then gave me a mini Bible lesson, reminded me that “Jesus te ama, Kimi” and told me he loved me for the first time. After crying together, I tucked him in for the last time that summer. When he waved goodbye, I saw that his wrist was covered in two inches of my hairbands. Thanks to the founders of the Bolivia Life Center, Marcelino left a life of desperation on the streets for a life with hope and a future, complete with good food, a warm bed, and the promise of a paid college education. Although I can’t wait to get back to South America to see all the boys again, it is a great comfort knowing they are safe after their troubled backgrounds. I am extremely blessed to be a part of changing their lives, just as they are a part of changing mine.

For more information on the way the lives of Bolivian street children are being radically changed or to consider sponsoring one of the five boys who still need a “madrina o padrino,” please visit www.cinonline.org or contact kigorie@davidson.edu for more information.

Kim Gorie ’09 is a Psychology major from Houston, TX. Contact her at kigorie@davidson.edu.