6 - 12 Steps to Stay Chill
By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
A&L Editor

December means holidays, friends and family, much joy and happiness. We all love the decorations on Main St. and how
a steaming cup of hot chocolate somehow brings more comfort than biscuits and gravy this time of year. But, despite
the festivities, exams are upon us, and as necessary as it is to layer up, we also need to take
time to chill out. Stress is an inevitable part of college life, and exams seem ruthlessly to cut the days
in half while doubling our workload. There is no way to avoid it: stress is the worst part of school
and reaches a maximum right now. I have no idea how to eliminate stress, but I do have some ideas
that will really help to reduce stress to a manageable, positive level which we can use to get through exam
week. So, in honor of the 12 days of Christmas, I have come up with a 12-item list of tips
you might want to try during exams and over the holiday break.

1. Power Naps - This is a gift that keeps on giving, so never underestimate its power. Sleep is probably
the most important and yet most neglected asset to success in school. Even a 20-minute nap does wonders for your
health and will give you a nice boost of energy. If you don’t think you can spare 20, then close
your eyes for five or 10 (it works better if you cover them to simulate darkness) and stop all activity.
Concentrate on regular, deep breathing, and voila. You’ll feel calmer.

By SAM SHELINE
Special Contributor

I fully admit that riding my mountain bike is an unhealthy passion. I get great exercise from it, but I
end up spending probably 90% of my money on new bike parts, placing food and other nonessentials second. The type
of riding I do, called “freeriding,” is inherently dangerous, not to mention that I recently lost my helmet and have
been riding helmetless. I literally start every ride thinking to myself, “Okay, try not to fall on your head.” I
even have three mountain bikes in my dorm room in Irwin. I literally have dreams about the next trick I
want to learn or the next line I want to ride.

When I started mountain biking about five years ago I just rode trails, but a background in skateboarding and a
general affinity for jumping off of anything taller than a backboard led me to the world of “freeriding.” Even though
five years may not seem like a long time, serious technological developments have taken place in the world of mountain
biking. This rapid progression can lead to the chronic illness known as “I-need-to-have-the-newest-sweetest-parts-hanging-off-of-my-bike” raging bike snob.

My treatment began near the beginning of this semester, when I received a fellowship from a program called SURGE (Students
United for a Responsible Global Environment), which promotes student-led environmental and social activism. The main part of this fellowship involved
coming up with a semester-long project that would be in keeping with SURGE’s mission of activism. The project I devised
was to collect and repair old bikes and eventually give these...

2. Exercise - It’s what the doctor ordered, and you need 30-60 minutes of daily focused exercise to maintain your
health. And a great bonus is the release of endorphins, which immediately reduce stress. But you don’t have to run
three miles at six mph to achieve the health and stress-relief benefits. Anything from biking and walking to pilates and
yoga is perfect.

3. Healthy Eating - Another biggie. Whether you feel it or not, a healthy diet can either help or hurt
your mental performance. So when you are working hard, it is important to give your body the necessary nourishment to
maintain your energy level and performance. However, when you start to feel the stress of work bring on hunger, it’s
easy to reach for that bag of Cheetos or candy bar. Don’t! While these foods do give a short boost
of energy, they are absolutely terrible for you. Instead, choose fruits, vegetables, nuts, pretzels, yogurt, Nutragrain bars, dry cereal or
oatmeal.

4. Music - My favorite! If you’re feeling stressed, turn it up until someone tells you their walls are shaking.
The choice is completely up to you, because you know what music makes you the most happy. And if you
are in a festive spirit, turn the radio to 102.9 or 104.7 F.M., both of which are playing continual holiday
music now through the new year.

5. Meditation - The premiere form of relaxation...Three feet led me to the more extreme bikes to needy children. I
must admit that organizing and executing this project has been one of the most difficult I’ve ever imagined. It has
also been extremely frustrating at times. Case in point: my recent bike collection day—during which people from the community could
bring me their old bikes—yielded only three specimens. But as difficult and time-consuming as this project has been (and I’m
still nowhere near finished), it has also been amazingly rewarding. One of the main rewards has been nearly losing all
of my bike snobbery. This process began as I inspected a fleet of rundown old bikes with Mike Goode, Assistant
Director of Davidson Outdoors. Where I saw a beat-up piece of garbage, Mike saw a well-trued front wheel and tires
with miles of tread left. Even if all of its parts were rusted into oblivion, Mike saw potential. After just
10 minutes of assessing these bicycles with Mike, I gained incredible new perspective on the value of what I would’ve
previously deemed junk. As I collected more bikes, I grew to appreciate them more. And as I gained appreciation for
the bikes themselves, I also gained a greater understanding of the real goal of riding a bicycle: having the freedom
to go farther, faster, and to experience the world differently than one could on his or her own feet. If
this project allows me to introduce even one child to the incredible freedom that a bicycle provides, all the hard
work will be worth it.

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, Dec 12, 2007

Don’t let exams and holiday stress keep you down, it’s a great time to be happy!

1. Relaxation - This is probably the simplest of suggestions I could make because you don’t have to do anything
or go anywhere. Just close your eyes (you don’t have to cover them if you don’t want to), breathe in
for five seconds, hold, and exhale for another five seconds while concentrating on a happy memory or nothing at all.
Repeat as much as you want until you feel your stress ease.

2. Friends - I am guilty of this one. When you get busy, you might find that you are cutting
yourself off from friends. If you find that you are doing this, try to make some time during the day
to call someone special or arrange a group dinner in the Union. Or even send a quick email, saying “Hey,
thinking about you, hope all is well and good luck!” They will appreciate it so much and return the favor.

3. Laugh - The best medicine, hands down. It instantly boosts your mood and lets you tackle stress better than
anything I know. Meet up with friends or watch “Arrested Development.” For best results, take together.

4. Get off campus - Can we say Exit 28? 25? Charlotte? Pick one and, if you don’t have a
car, find a ride with someone who is probably equally as anxious to go as you. If you feel like
a tasty study break (and while it may go against tip number three) ignore the calories and enjoy a large
gelato at Cafe Mia. You deserve the treat.

5. Read something other than your textbook - It’s so sad, but during the semester I know so many people
who only read material that pertains to a class or is required. What happened to pleasure reading?! Walk into any
Barnes & Noble (there is one on Exit 25, by the way) and take your pick. One particularly good read
is “The Elephant Suite” by Paul Theroux, which describes the crossroads of several different people who lose and find themselves
in the mystique of modern-day India. And since it is the holidays, a personal favorite of mine is still “How
the Grinch Stole Christmas” by Dr. Seuss.

6. Positive thinking - Hard times got you down? Do you have more negative thoughts than affirmations? The best way
to keep going when the going gets tough is to tell yourself that you are doing the best you can
and that’s all anyone can ask of you. If an exam doesn’t go as well as you had hoped, let
it go and focus on the next one.

7. Holiday shopping - Need I say more? The holidays are quickly approaching, and by the time we all get
home the Big Man will practically be coming down the chimney. Take a few hours and go to Birkdale, North
Lake, or Charlotte and hit a few stores. But if you don’t want to spend the cash, window shop. It’s
the cheapest form of splurging and you cannot deny the fuzzy penguins in the display window were worth the trip.

8. Fruitcake and Egg Nog - I can never get enough of either, and ’tis the season. So if you
find any of the good stuff, tell me.

GOOD LUCK WITH EXAMS AND HAPPY HOLIDAYS!!!
