THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

The Wildcat Pulse

Field Hockey ends conference season with 1-6 loss

By Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

Last Friday, the field hockey team concluded its conference schedule with a 6-1 loss against Pacific at a neutral site to finish with a 3-3 conference record. Kayli Maxwell ’08 scored an unassisted goal in the 50th minute for the Wildcats, pulling her squad to within three goals. The Tigers, however, could not be denied. The Tigers outshot the Wildcats 14-7, including a 7-1 disparity in the first half. Kedibone Leubane knocked in Pacific’s first goal at the eight-minute mark. Scoring an unassisted goal in the 24th minute and a 36th-minute goal off a rebound, Leubane led the Pacific squad in goals with a hat trick. Kim Kayawa, Ashley Niccum, and Kate McDonough each contributed one goal to Pacific’s offensive onslaught. On the defensive side, Valerie Niles made three saves for Pacific. Brittany Rollek ’09 and Mary Clay '10 split time in goal, each giving up three goals. Rollek made three saves while Clay stopped four shots.

“We had a lot of breakdowns throughout the field,” Maxwell said, “but I think we will be able to work out all the problems and start playing our game again this weekend.” Looking ahead, the team’s confidence remains high. “We’re going to keep working hard and I think we will be able to have a good shot at the conference title,” Maxwell said. The coming week features three games in Hanover, New Hampshire. Davidson will take on Dartmouth on Saturday, Maine on Sunday, and New Hampshire on Tuesday. The Wildcats hope to close with a winning streak to give themselves momentum heading into the NorPac tournament, which will begin on Nov. 1 in Palo Alto, California.

Volleyball drops pair of road matches, falls to 6-14

By KARL SCHMIDT
Guest Writer

Two visits to Guilford County proved unsuccessful for the Davidson Volleyball team this past weekend. The ’Cats struggled against Elon last Saturday and UNC Greensboro last Sunday, losing both matches three games to none. Against Elon, the team started strong with a tight first game. The ’Cats trailed by only one point late in the game, but were unable to pull it out, losing 30-21. The Phoenix built on the momentum from the final points of the first game to take an early 22-9 lead. Davidson fought back, but again failed to win the game, 30-18. The final game concluded the match as the first game started it with Elon making scoring runs late, putting the ’Cats away 30-22. Katie Pierruci ’08 recorded 17 kills and 11 digs in the match, posting her ninth double-double of the year. With both teams entering the match on two-game losing streaks, Davidson looked to snap its streak and extend UNC Greensboro’s. However, the Spartans took the match in three straight games, 30-17, 30-24, 30-16. Whereas in games one and three UNC-G made strong runs to put down the ’Cats, the second game was a closer contest. Davidson led 22-21 late in the game, but the Spartans finished with a 9-2 run to take the game. Pierruci again led the team with 12 kills and 10 digs, her tenth double-double of the season. The Wildcats will look to rebound this weekend with home matches against Chattanooga and Samford.Atlanta, GA * Chicago, IL * Cleveland, OH * Los Angeles, CA * Princeton, NJ
McMASTER-CARR
www.mcmaster.com/careers

October 17, 2007

*Cats, Davidson fought hard in game two, taking a 24-23 lead before losing the game, 30-24. Sarabeth Peele ’10 led Davidson with 10 kills. The Spartans’ win drops Davidson to 6-14 overall and 1-6 in the conference. Volleyball looks to end this streak on Thursday at 5:30 against Appalachian State. The match immediately precedes “A Night with the ‘Cats.”

Men’s Soccer falls to nationally-ranked squads
By SAM DIAMANT
Senior Staff Writer

Men’s soccer returned to Alumni Stadium last week for a pair of matches against #25 South Carolina and #22 Furman. The team also traveled to conference power UNC-G on Tuesday. Unfortunately, the team lost all three matches and now sits at 1-10 (0-3, SoCon) on the season with seven games remaining. While the Wildcats continue to show promise and play well sporadically, they have struggled to be consistent.

Wednesday night against the talented South Carolina Gamecocks, Coach Matt Spear’s squad played some of the best soccer of their season. Aaron West ’08 scored his second goal of the year with a header off a corner kick in the fifth minute. The team maintained the one-goal margin through most of the game but failed to tack on another score despite a few promising chances towards the end of the first half and early in the second period. Towards the end of the second half, South Carolina battled back. The Gamecocks netted the equalizer off a free kick with just over 10 minutes remaining. The game-winner came in the 85th minute when an open Gamecock striker hit a hard shot from the top of the box. The Wildcats had a 12-7 shot advantage on the night, and they controlled possession consistently throughout the game until they lost control in the final minutes.

On Saturday, the ’Cats played tough SoCon opponent Furman tight through the first half, trailing 1-0 at the break. The Paladins broke the game open in the second half, though, tallying three goals between the 70th and 80th minutes. Davidson managed 6 shots on goal on the night, but they were unable to convert on these opportunities; this failure to finish has become a discouraging theme of the season.

The team fell short again on Tuesday night against the UNC-Greensboro Spartans. Tom Lavan ’08 and Charlie Rieter ’10 tallied goals for the Wildcats, but a hat trick by the Spartans’ Thomas Campbell helped push UNC-Greensboro to a 4-2 victory. The loss was Davidson’s seventh in a row. The team now hits the heart of its SoCon schedule with a match at Georgia Southern this week. Then, they play five consecutive home matches—four against SoCon opponents (UNC Greensboro, Georgia Southern, Appalachian State, and Coastal Carolina) and also a tough match-up against #4 Duke on Oct. 31.

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School
Best Lawyers in America ‘84—'07
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals
Adjunct professor of trial advocacy Duke Law School UNC Law School

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2007

Bright spots for the afternoon, while Griswold added another score to put the game out of reach. Kyle Redden completed the scoring on their way to an easy 49-21 victory. The Cats defense surrendered 426 yards. Astrop recorded eight tackles and a sack. Davidson will look to rebound next week when they travel to Dayton for another important PFL contest. Dayton is coming off an impressive 49-3 victory over Jacksonville and stands at 1-1 in the conference. Morehead State outscored the ’Cats 18-0 in the fourth quarter.

Concentrating in Personal Injury
Other Areas of Practice: Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning, Litigation, Real Estate, Social Security Disability, Wills & Trusts

Law Firm in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699 (Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

Photo courtesy of Sports Information. Aaron West ’08 scored Davidson’s only goal against South Carolina.

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. University of Richmond
Commissioner for the Town of Davidson ’83-’85; ’88-’97
Town of Davidson Commercial and North End Corridor Plan ’05
Mecklenburg County Real Estate Executive Council ’03 to present.