THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2007

Summer ends on a bittersweet note

MACKENZIE BARROW
Guest Columnist

Three months ago, if you asked me if I was excited about summer break, I’d have told you that the
prospect of spending twelve weeks in my hometown, sharing a bedroom with my sister, and eating snack food 24/7 was
decidedly unappealing. Originally, I had hoped to receive funding for a summer project in Canada from a Study Abroad Office
grant, but that plan fell through in March when the rejection letter came in my campus mailbox. They told me
that, as a freshman, I needed to get more academic experience under my belt before they would give me funding.
So instead of traveling the world, I worked the early morning shift at a local bakery, grinding coffee and slicing
bread for $7.50 an hour.

I also had the sneaking suspicion that living for three months in the same room as my sister under my
parents' roof would not be quite the same as occupying a college dorm room with my best friend. My sister
Maggie would be less inclined than my roommate to ask permission to borrow my clothes and more inclined to leave
her dirty laundry on the floor that she considered her territory since I left for Davidson last August. At best,
I’d win the inevitable shouting matches. At worst, I’d spend the summer feeling like a guest in my own home.
Finally, I worried that the supply of Cheez-Its, Teddy Grahams, and homemade brownies in my mother’s kitchen, combined with the
lack of Commons’ salad bar, would super-size me faster than Morgan Spurlock’s 30-day stint with McDonald’s french fries.

Decorating Belk 119 the way I want it, chewing that first mouthful of Commons Chicken Parm, or waking up at
8 a.m. instead of at 5:30 a.m. to go to class. I would be giving up the luxury of dining
options and fun dinnertime chats with close friends in exchange for packaged food and a series of unfinished conversations with
family members as they scarfed down Hamburger Helper on their way out the door, leaving me to do the dishes.
A whole freezer full of “free” Cookies’n’Cream would be a poor substitute for a midnight Cook-Out run with my hall-mates.

But three months later, as I shed my baker’s uniform and leave my post as neat-freak older sister and household
dishwasher to re-enter the self-contained world of Davidson College, I’m a little sad to leave some things behind. Like my
co-worker from Russia who reminded me that what for me is just a summer job is for some people the
chance to pursue the American dream. Or the Wednesday night tradition of watching chick flicks with my sister in the
neutral territory of the living room. I’m not sorry to leave behind the stack of recipes I got online when
I finally decided to take the family’s nutrition into my own hands or the Russian-English dictionary I bought for Tatiana
or that purple T-shirt Maggie kept wanting to borrow. Those are things my family and friends will be able to
use, though I hope that I’ll remain in their lives in other, less material, ways as well.

Does all this mean that the annoying coffee shop customers, the messy room, and the instant mashed potatoes were outshone
by the new friendships, perspectives, and interests I gained this summer? Yeah, I guess it does. But it doesn’t mean
I won’t relish decorating Belk 119 the way I want it, chewing that first mouthful of Commons Chicken Parm, or
waking up at 8 a.m. instead of 5:30 a.m. to go to class. Hopefully, I’ll be getting some of that
academic experience that will qualify me for a Dean Rusk grant next summer.

Returning to campus as a sophomore brought about a welcoming sense of comfort and familiarity. Freshman year, as we upperclassmen
well know, promised the fun of new experiences but also the anxiety and stress of moving away from home, friends,
and family. Suddenly, we found ourselves transported into a little bubble that we came to call home, forced to make
friends quickly, and to take on a workload that some of us had never experienced before. With this in mind,
returning to Davidson was a much more relaxing and fun experience this year.

Every year, however, presents obstacles and worries. Sophomore year has its perks, but most of us are experiencing the “Sophomore
Slump.” We are all now challenged to declare our majors and, as some of us see it, what we are
going to do with the rest of our lives. Suddenly, the discomfort of freshman year returns to us, but in
a new way. In discussing this subject with many close friends, I have learned that some are considering transferring, some
want to take a year off, some are dropping life-long dreams (pre-med kids), and others just want to go to
sleep in order to avoid all of this questioning.

An interesting aspect of my college experience is that it sobered me up (for some, I understand, being sober is
not a familiar state). In Tennessee, I was always the driven, nerdy kid in my public high school — newspaper
in backpack, calculator in pocket, pencil behind one ear, and highlighter behind the other. I had big ideas: I wanted
to feed poor kids in Africa, be President,and be a best-selling author before I retired. My naivete allowed me to
think that this was possible. I believe that naivete was good because the resulting ambition got me into this school.
I would guess that many have the same story. After enrolling, however, I quickly realized that I was no longer
the only nerdy kid. Suddenly, everyone was better than me at everything. I soon understood that I simply could not
physically or mentally do all that I had previously hoped.

Word on the street is that the older you are, the wiser you become. As your college years fly by,
you become more responsible, well-spoken, and legitimate as a human being, right? Seriously, do you become more of a legitimate
person as you go through college? Do your grades improve? Do you become more mature? Do you no longer look
for love in all the wrong places (i.e., the corners of Court parties)?

From this junior girl’s perspective, the answer is both yes and no. I almost burned down Ryburn this summer with
nothing but a pre-prepared bowl of Easy Mac, a microwave, and a dream. Who knew that burnt Easy Mac causes
microwaves to give off giant plumes of foul-smelling yellow smoke? Don’t worry, Ryburn still stands, and my apartment no longer
smells of burnt fake cheese. That was one of my less stellar moments at Davidson, but in my defense, it
was also during the summer, an academia-free time when making Easy Mac while mildly intoxicated seems like a good idea.
Yeah... it’s not. That story is definitely one strike against me as a legitimate person.

I do believe, though, that Davidson College fosters an environment that encourages students to make changes, to be leaders, to
speak out against wrongdoing, and to make the world a better place. Here arises the question we all encounter: How
do I make my impact? I cannot answer this question for you, which should come as no surprise. I would,
however, like to offer what has influenced me to this point and is still influencing me as I attempt to
figure out what I can do to make a change. Marie Curie said, “We cannot hope to build a better
world without improving the individual. Toward this end, each of us may work toward his own highest development, accepting at
the same time his share of responsibility in the general life of humanity.”

We all have the intellectual, moral, and financial opportunity to obtain a valuable education. We have all acquired, for a
plethora of reasons, a certain ambition in life. The worst we can do is ignore our blessings and abilities. Therefore,
I encourage anyone reading this article to understand that you are incredibly gifted and can change the world. The first
step to finding out one’s major or occupation is merely to recognize your blessings and abilities, embrace what you love,
and work towards your “own highest development.” Doing so will change the world as we know it, in a way
that only you could have conceived.

Ryan Gough ’10 is a Political Science major from Elizabethton, TN. Contact him at rygough@davidson.edu.

Attention juniors: For your eyes only

And I have another shameful secret. I was (gulp) that freshman who... FREAKED OUT about school. Now, I care more
than ever about getting my work done and done well, but by junior year I’m beginning to “get it.” By
“it,” I mean that we as Davidson students learn how to survive among the challenging, loving bubble of awkwardness that
is Davidson College. We’ve all taken crucial steps towards legitimacy just by learning how to survive. These four years teach
us the art of balance: how to go out on Friday night and still ace Monday’s test, how to roll
out of bed for your 8:30 class after you only crawled under the covers four hours before, and last, but
certainly not least, how to wait patiently for the Snapple lady in the union to ring up your 11 p.m.
cup of coffee when you have a paper due in 12 hours. (I got so tired of waiting that I
have my own coffee machine this year. Take that, Snapple lady!)

In general, though, I feel that I, like any other Davidson student, am steadily trekking towards the light of legitimacy,
and that Davidson has shown me the way... for the most part. My grades have definitely improved since freshman year,
and I’d like to think I’m more mature than the girl who sat contently on her bed in Richardson 318
and ate her Cake Race spoils (Too bad I didn’t actually run the Cake Race myself. Thanks for running fast,
roomie!). The key to college is balancing the stupid, silly things that make for great stories with the intense academic
things that keep you in the library until 1 a.m. Both are hilarious, stressful, and extremely satisfying. So go forth,
whoever is reading this, and trek down the path of legitimacy; don’t get too upset, though, if yellow smoke occasionally
billows from your microwave.

Ashley Semble ’09 is from Winston-Salem, N.C. Contact her at assemble@davidson.edu.
