5___. THE DAVIDSONIAN

Basement of library still depressing
SEE PAGE 2

President Ross compares himself to turtle
SEE PAGE 5

First annual Hot Pocket Race Disappoints
SEE PAGE 7

Convocation speaker has 13 daughters
SEE PAGE 2

THE YOW

Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Editors: Dan Killian, Alex Hoyt
Hit a gap double: Thad Sieracki

Note: The Yow! is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

ORTA

All I got to say when you tell me not to play I say no!

UBERTAS

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

September 9, 2007

The Davidsonian

SCULPTURE GARDEN USHERS DAVIDSON INTO AGE OF ENLIGHTENMENT

When the time comes for the final reckoning of Bobby Vagt’s tenure, historians will agree on one glaring shortcoming: he
could never manage to establish the elusive, flourishing sculpture garden that President Ross has now cultivated in his first few
weeks in office.

This giant rubber eraser, which symbolizes the transcendence of the ego, is reputed to be the next target of Sculpture
Garden curator Bud Kowalski.

Early Tuesday night, thousands flocked to an opening for what Tammy O’Hara ‘09 referred to as a place “holier than
the Garden of Eden.” It was the grand opening for the new sculpture garden and nearly every member of the
town of Davidson was in attendance. As Dean Mandlebaum said, “The newly realized courtyard will possess a vibrancy all its
own in that it will exercise the intellect, spirit, and imagination, while simultaneously engaging each student’s formal identity.”

Mandlebaum expects the garden to increase application rates by 35%. Additionally, tour guides have been instructed to circle the garden
thrice to represent its “three-fold symmetry of purpose.”

Spirits were high as a fruitful ambience accompanied the numerous speeches delivered at the garden’s opening. There was talk of
the garden representing a rebirth of the college, as well as a Renaissance feeling that restored the campus to its
golden days. Once the event concluded at 10 pm with an elaborate fireworks display, students, faculty, and townspeople returned to
their prior obligations with a fresh sense of purpose. Davidson College’s endowment has been set to fund maintenance for the
garden with a generous annual $2.5 million dollar grant. The garden is tended to by 35 horticulturists who prune and
hedge the sculptures four times a day. Additionally, the water pressure in the library bathrooms has been decreased so that
the sprinklers can sufficiently reach each one of the sculptures adequately.

Home and Garden Television correspondent, Bill Filipenmanjaropu, flew in from Davis, California for the event. “There are only a few
opportunities this big that come your way when you’re in the garden business. I simply could not pass this one
up.” He also provided much-needed clarification as to how many pieces are required to constitute a garden.

Andrew Gormley’s creepily titled “You,” the Peeping Tom of the Sculpture Garden.

“I have heard a few skeptics suggesting that this somehow does not constitute a garden due to the relative lack
of pieces on display. This could not possibly be further from the truth. This year’s regulations set by the AGA
(American Garden Association)…”

MISOGYNY REPLACES ANDROGYNY

Last night a packed Union 900 room witnessed the debut of Davidson’s latest...a capella third wheel, Misogyny. The group, consisting
of eleven male upperclassmen all hailing from below the Mason-Dixon Line, formed in the void of Androgyny, Davidson’s unisex vocal
ensemble that imploded last spring in a mire of scandal and intrigue. “That Androgyny shit was never going to last,”
said Misogyny frontman Rex Rose. “You know why? Too much estrogen. They didn’t have no one to cook their meals,
man. The womenfolk was always crooning some Weather Girls bullshit instead of battering up a good turkey. Why do you
think Fleetwood Mac broke up? All the bitches, man.”

In one of the more controversial vocal debuts in Davidson history, Misogyny opened their inaugural concert with a violent rendition
of Guns N' Roses’ “Back Off Bitch,” followed by AC/DC’s “Let Me Put My Love into You, Babe” and Black
Sabbath’s “Evil Woman.” Then came an eleven-minute homage to Misogyny icon Ted Nugent, the most memorable lyric of which was
surely, “Hey, Madeleine Albright, Kiss My Glock.”

Misogyny on their ill-fated debut, minutes away from being written up. After an intermission of backstage cigarettes and whiskey pulls,
Misogyny returned to the mic with the request that all women in the audience leave for the second half of
the show. Visibly inebriated, they proceeded to butcher the Eagles’ “Witchy Woman,” before attempting their most experimental number. As his
tenors hummed the operatic melody of Wagner’s “Liebesverbot,” frontman Rex Rose began beat-boxing that catchy Prodigy number, “Smack My Bitch
Up.” After perhaps 30 seconds of this, campus police arrived and those Misogyny members who had not already passed out
were escorted from the stage.

“Why do you think Fleetwood Mac broke up? All the bitches, man.”

Misogyny issued a press release this morning saying that they refused to apologize, and that they would continue promoting their
hard-rocking agenda of bigotry, prejudice, and the intolerance of women’s rights (excepting those of their groupies, who are permitted Cat
card access to their Jamieson apartment). Rose also warned the student body of Misogyny’s imminent return. “First Night Down, man.
We’re opening at Pika for Twisted Sister. It’s gonna be a bitchin’ good time.”

Clearly state that two or more things within 100 feet of each other constitute a garden. The sculpture garden at
Davidson has easily outperformed that minimum requirement with three items on display.

Sculpture garden [skulpcher gartan] noun
1. Any plot of land with two or more things within 100 feet of each other.
2. A plot of land that arbitrarily takes on transcendentalist meaning on certain liberal arts campuses.

Freshman Sam Clowie admitted, “That garden was one of the key reasons I applied to Davidson. It worked out great
because I am really into the outdoors but also have an interest in awkward metal shapes.”

Ten Ways for Freshmen to be Cool
1. Aviators inside. Top Gun high-fives. Anything Tom Cruise would do c. 1985.
2. Obtain mixology poster.
3. Run up the bill at Bonsai.
4. Vaguely allude to haunting rehab past.
5. Join the Hollister Beach Club.
6. Smoke hookah in the sculpture garden.
7. Drink everything out of a solo cup.
8. Throw out guest meals at Commons.
9. Disregard parking tickets, library fines, parents’ phone calls, Davidson 101s, liver trouble, etc.
10. Read the You.
