4 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Republicans and Democrats duke it out in the 900 Room

By KATIE GREESON AND MONICA JAMOUNEAU
Special Contributor and News Editor

Last Wednesday, the College Republicans (CRs) and the Young Democrats (YDs) squared off in a debate that almost filled the 900 Room to capacity. Topics of debate ranged from the war in Iraq and America’s obligations in the Middle East to controversial questions concerning immigration and the importance of oil in foreign policy.

“The objectives that we could achieve in Iraq are not worth the price we would pay to achieve them,” Beau Wright ’11 of the YDs said. He also said that President Bush would likely not cut off funds to Iraq during the last stretch of his presidency. A move that would extract the American military from that region, countered the CRs, might cause sectarian and civil wars as a consequence of the new power vacuum. The YDs insisted that civil war could still occur if we take out our troops 10 years from now.

This line of debate triggered a question from the CRs about whether the United States has an obligation to stop genocide in Iraq if it were to occur. The CRs believe that we do. Ninety-six percent of the proposed healthcare stations in that country have been completed, they argued, and if the U.S. continues on this road, an eventual good outcome can be expected. The YDs disagreed. Genocide is already happening, they said, and we cannot stop it because we do not have many more troops to deploy. Full peace in Iraq with current U.S. policy is unattainable, the YDs said, and it is weakening our commitment and cooperation with the rest of the world.

When asked what role the United Nations should have in controlling American foreign policy, the YDs replied that the U.N. is a source of legitimacy and the grounds for cooperation with China and other countries. The CRs answered that the U.S. would have to oppose the U.N. when the latter’s policies run counter to ours, citing the situation in North Korea with nuclear weapons. The U.N. has failed to stop that country from making the weapons as well as from exporting them.

Next, the CRs addressed the question of what kind of influence OPEC should have on policy in the Middle East. “The U.S. has to secure itself right now and the best way to do that is to back away from Middle Eastern oil. So start drilling in Alaska,” Ben Robinson ’08 said. “Start drilling in Texas. We can’t completely stop our dependency on oil, so we may as well start using what we have.”

The YDs were then asked whether prisoners of war in Guantanamo Bay should have the same rights and benefits as POWs in other parts of the world. “It is not who we are as a country,” Wright said of inflicting different punishment, like torture, for prisoners in Cuba. “It is not helping us win the War on Terror, and it has no place in American policy.” He added, “Itdoes not help the War on Terror to be the best-known international terror regime.” On the issue of national surveillance, Mike Jucewicz ’10, a CR, said, “I think the U.S. should do everything possible to prevent another terror attack on our soil, and I don’t see how you can disagree with that.” The YDs pointed out, however, that privacy is important and surveillance should be done legally.

Another question, directed at the YDs, dealt with socialized health care. “Every second [our troops are in Iraq] we spend $3,687,” Zeke Webster ’09, a YD, said. “That’s enough to send a child to a pediatrician for three years.” The YDs supported a universal health care system, but the CRs argued that Canada’s socialized healthcare system cannot support itself, and that the U.S. should keep private health care. The health care debate waged on but eventually gave way to discussion about immigration and amnesty to illegal workers. Though the YDs argued that a guest worker program is not necessarily a security threat, the CRs stated that permeable borders could result from such a program.

“The focus should be on U.S. jobs and U.S. national security,” Robinson said. “It’s as simple as that.” But does the United States have a responsibility to educate the American-born children of illegal immigrants? The CRs say that we do, but that we should also prevent these illegal aliens from entering in the first place. “We should provide education for legal immigrants and their children and illegal immigrants’ children,” Webster agreed.

When the debaters were asked which candidate they supported, both Republicans chose Rudy Giuliani, while Wright said Barack Obama and Webster preferred Bill Richardson. “It’s nice to have Democrats and Republicans talking to each other,” Associate Professor of Political Science Pat Sellers said at the close of the debate.

COME to the DEFENSE of YOUR ALMA MATER and OUR COLLEGE TOWN! VOTE JACKSON for MAYOR

Under N.C. law, students may register and vote on the same day at the North County Regional Library in Huntersville! The One-Stop Voting period extends from this week to November 3, the last Saturday before Election Day. Same day registration will be available on all early voting dates. Acceptable forms of identification include: A student photo ID along with a document showing your name and current address.

BILL JACKSON for MAYOR: KEEP DAVIDSON SPECIAL! Paid for by the "Jackson Protect Davidson” Committee

eServant Leadership
eBalanced Development
eEconomic Health of Davidson
eListening and Responding to the Citizens
eCommon Sense, Forward Thinking, Courageous Decision Making
Uniquely Qualified to be Davidson Mayor
* John is a Davidson native and understands the challenging issues facing our community.
* He has 36 years of financial and managerial experience and is successful at achieving results.
* John participates in Leadership Davidson 2007, and understands the important relationship between Davidson College and the community.
* Involved in both his community and church, he will work to enhance the quality of life for all.