. ARTS

Faculty art exhibit shows grim, jarring pieces

By CAROLINE WOOP
Staff Writer

The next time you pass by the VAC, take a moment to investigate the Faculty Art Exhibit, featuring pieces by
Russ Warren, Cort Savage, and Ryan O’Malley. On Sept. 6, the Art Department welcomed the exhibit with the standard gallery
talk and reception, where Davidson’s best-dressed Art majors and English professors gathered to sip wine and show off their stunning
intellectualism and cultural sensitivity. Though the small talk had escalated to a roar, it still couldn’t drown out the pronounced
clatter of high heels on the blindingly polished hardwood floors.

The sophisticated parlance came to a halt as attendees crammed into the largest room of the Van Every Gallery to
hear Ryan O’Malley, Davidson’s visiting Professor of Art, discuss his work and development as an artist. An expert in what
seems to be every type of print-making known to mankind, O’Malley focuses especially on mezzotint, a painstaking method yielding prints
with rich depth of light and darkness.

After a simple, friendly explanation of the mezzotint process and the challenges he faced, he took the opportunity to show
off the tortured hero under the collared shirt: “If there were an easier way to do what I do, I'd
take it.” O’Malley’s grim collection, entitled First Impressions, includes a diverse array of prints ranging from “The Weight of Persistence”
to “Skully” and “The New American West Is Still Shaped by the Gun.” If the pieces represent his first impressions
of his time at Davidson, as he explained in the gallery talk, then I don’t know quite what to think
of the place.

The adjoining galleries contain equally fun and disturbing works. Cort Savage’s “New Ruptures” includes sculptures and x-ray light boxes built
with materials as varied and surprising as rubber bands and human teeth. He includes a brief discussion of each piece,
explaining certain features and posing questions to the observer on themes such as mortality and the persistence of supposedly forgotten
parts of our lives.

Russ Warren’s collection “Portraits” features jarring paintings of angular, often grinning faces with thought-provoking titles such as “Try to Smile”
and “Everybody Has a Little Demon.” The pale, creamy color palette provides a warm contrast to the dark pieces of
the other galleries; however, Warren’s themes seem no brighter. The collection will be on display for neighbors’ perusal and students’
enlightenment.

Say hey there, Delilah, to three

By JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Staff Writer

Late Labor Day night, numerous girls hoping to make the cut for the Delilahs female a cappella group anxiously awaited
their fate. After completing the audition process consisting of a preliminary audition followed by a round of call-backs, and waiting
for the current members’ careful decisions, three new members Elena Delvac ‘11, Lizzy Gregory ‘11, and Brit’nee Haskins ‘11 received
a warm welcome into this year’s Delilahs.

“We had a lot of really talented people audition this year, and these girls are the best of the best,”
Secretary Rachel Purcell ’08 said. “We are so excited to add their beautiful voices to our group.”

Because every member plays a role in decision making, a group consensus is necessary to select the new members. Musical
ability, personality, and needs of the group are among the criteria considered when choosing a singer.

When asked about their auditions, all three new members reported positive experiences, despite some performance jitters. “Even though the audition
process was nerve-wracking, I had a lot of fun at the most random moments, and I think that is an
important part of any audition process,” Haskins said. “I hope that continues during this upcoming year in the Delilahs.”

Gregory agreed. “The members were so supportive throughout the whole thing,” she commented. “They wanted you to showcase your voice,
and they appreciated whatever talents you offered.”

Delvac also underwent a painless audition. “I was nervous, and the Delilahs were positive and encouraging,” she said.

Delvac attributes her decision to try out for the Delilahs to the group’s performance.Of true Southern food is a must,
and visiting establishments with “Granny,” “homestyle” fare. That may explain why it took me a year to find Dish. This
trendy little nook serves food as Southern as can be and caters to a crowd as diverse as Charlotte can
offer. Try it for lunch, when the lobby is full of business people; or for supper, when extended families crowd
the vinyl-covered tables. Either way, you will enjoy the spectacular art of green tomatoes. The atmosphere is authentic: even the
walls of the dining room proudly display local artists' paintings for sale.

The most fun (and difficult) thing about Dish is deciding what to order. Though few of us will be inclined
to indulge in the fried chicken livers, the restaurant boasts plenty of unique dishes, from salmon cakes with orange cream
to collard greens and a house-made veggie burger (dubbed excellent by a highly reputable vegan). Everything about the atmosphere is
authentic. Even the walls of the dining room proudly display local artists' paintings for sale.

The service at Dish is straightforward and friendly; you can bet your sweet tea will be refilled promptly. When the
bill arrives, you'll be even more fond of your good-natured server; don’t expect to pay more than eight or ten
dollars for a fun, unique, and delicious dinner. Everyone needs a break after the first few weeks of school, so
why not start your year off with an outing that’s fun, funky, Southern, and even a little bit hip? You’ll
be proud of your new home state.

Most Charlotte natives will tell you that Dish is one of the coolest parts of the city. Go early to
enjoy the neighborhood, but be a bit cautious of hanging around too late at night. The surrounding streets are safe,
or at the very least, serve as an interesting backdrop for people-watching as much as the fried green tomatoes.

The frank, direct portraits of women intrigue patrons and art collectors alike. Finding inspiration from strong female singers such as
Aretha Franklin and Idina Menzel (from Broadway shows like “Rent” and “Wicked”) to jazz legends Billie Holiday and Marvin Gaye,
Delvac, Gregory, and Haskins bring a wide knowledge of diverse musical styles to the group. Their favorite types of songs
to perform are equally unique. Haskins prefers R&B, Delvac loves “Where You Lead” by Carole King, and Gregory favors anything
associated with Disney princesses.

So what do the Delilahs have in store for the 2007-2008 academic year? They will perform at an outdoor concert
on the Town Green on Oct 23 as well as at LIVE Thursdays. A performance at the carnival for the
Children’s Schoolhouse in Huntersville is also in store. In addition to their 2006 CD, “Kickin’ Off Our Heels,” look for
a new CD to be released in the spring of '08. Purcell is keeping mum about the material that the
new CD will feature. “We like to keep our upcoming repertoire a little bit of a surprise, but we are
adding some current hits and ‘90s pop favorites,” she said. With the addition of Delvac, Gregory, and Haskins to the
already talented Delilahs, it looks like the Davidson community will hear some fantastic music this year. Also, keep an eye
out for Davidson’s other a cappella groups, the Generals and Androgyny.

The Davidsonian, Wednesday, Sept 12, 2007.
