THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2007

The 2007-2008 Season Preview
Will Watts’s Wildcats return to the postseason this year?

By SAM DIAMANT
Senior Staff Writer

For Davidson women’s basketball, last season was possibly the most successful in the program’s history. After a 23-win regular season, the team was invited to the women’s NIT Tournament, participating in postseason play for the first time. As a result of last year’s success, expectations are high for the team as it begins the 2007-2008 campaign. The preseason SoCon Coach’s Poll picked the Wildcats to finish third in-conference. Katie Hamilton was named to the preseason all-conference team.

Coach Annette Watts isn’t focusing on last year. It’s a new season and a very different team for the Wildcats. Last year’s team lost three starters to graduation. This year, a number of talented, though less-experienced, younger players will see significant floor-time. With the departure of Tia Washington ’07, the task of directing the offense belongs to point-guard Alex Thompson ’10.

Thompson isn’t the only underclassman featured in Davidson’s game plan this year. First-year players Kelsey Cary and Ashley Lax figure to make an immediate impact. “Kelsey [Cary] and Ashley [Lax] are two freshmen that are going to be strong in the rotation,” Watts said. Of Lax, Watts said, “She’s a tenacious offensive player, always looking to score. And I’m well pleased with the way she’s coming along.” Cary is a versatile forward who can crash the boards but also has the ability to shoot from three-point range. “Kelsey [Cary] is a tough player who always finds a way to finish,” Watts said. The third member of the incoming class, Cloe Woodington ’11, has been sidelined for the year with an ACL injury.

The team appears to have all the talent it needs to be successful. Danielle Hermerka ’08 averaged 10 points and 5.5 rebounds in 2007-2008, and she brings experience to the young Wildcat squad. Watts and her coaching staff are working to find the best system to take full advantage of the team’s potential. “We have a very talented, skilled team,” Watts said. “It’s just a matter of figuring out what combinations will work.” Two players, Hamilton and forward Mandy Halbersleben ’09, will miss significant time at the beginning of the season due to knee injuries. “Improvement every day is what we’re focusing on,” Watts said.

The Davidsonian’s Southern Conference Men’s Basketball Preseason Projections

North Division
1. Appalachian State
2. UNC-Greensboro
3. Western Carolina
4. Chattanooga

South Division
1. Davidson
2. Wofford
3. College of Charleston
4. Georgia Southern
5. Furman
6. The Citadel

Last year’s finishing order: Appalachian State, UNC-Greensboro, Western Carolina, Elon

The Mountaineers will miss D.J. Thompson, but the 6-8 Minter might be just as good as UNCG’s Hines this year. Jeremy Clayton will also provide athleticism at forward. App still feels slighted after last year, and the team will take no prisoners. The Spartans are confident with Hines, but they don’t have many other scoring options around him. We are looking for other SoCon teams to catch them late in the season (see Appalachian State). Western Carolina could grab a high seed in the SoCon Tournament as this year’s dark horse. Nick Aldridge is the conference’s most underrated big man. The Mocs always have big expectations, but Coach Shulman might suffer another down season this year. We wouldn’t be surprised if they made a coaching move soon. Elon graduated from a bad team last year. At least they get to host a BracketBuster.

South Division: Davidson, Charleston, Furman, Georgia Southern, Wofford, The Citadel.Like filling your name in on the test. No-brainer. The Terriers return Nichols and Gibson, and they can shoot the lights out. The Terriers upset Cincinnati last year, but they will need contributions from young big men to finish this high in the conference. These Cougars have high hopes as always, but this team is very inexperienced and they will be eaten alive inside. The incomer Goudelock won’t be able to replace Draper in one year. D-II Augusta State has already beaten them in the preseason. 

The Eagles largely underachieved last year. Don’t expect the Eagles to repeat as conference also-rans. Hanner will continue to be a tough place for opponents to win close games. The Paladins lost four starters from a team that struggled most of last season. New renovations to Timmons Arena won’t make this team any better. That is just really sad.

How will the Wildcats fare in the offense after the injuries to their starters? “Come March we’re going to be a much better team,” Watts said. Younger players will be given the opportunity to improve through substantial playing time early in the season. When Hamilton and Halbersleben return, the team should be ready to hit its stride in time for post-season play. Over the course of her career, Hamilton has been a consistent offensive threat. She averaged 15.8 points and 5.8 rebounds during her sophomore season. Much like their coach, the players downplay pre-season expectations and rankings. “We know that ratings are just ratings, and it doesn’t matter if we are ranked third or seventh, we are still going to play hard and shake things up in the Southern Conference,” co-captain Hemerka said.

Davidson’s 2007-2008 schedule also features some intriguing non-conference match-ups against preseason #10 Georgia (Dec. 9), and strong ACC programs Georgia Tech (Nov. 9) and Virginia (Dec. 20). “We are excited to be playing such a tough out-of-conference schedule because we know it will challenge us and prepare us as we go into conference play,” said Hamilton. “These games will show us what we are made of,” Hemerka added.

Overall, 2007-2008 should be an interesting year for the Wildcats. While expectations are high, the team still must address some needs. Watts noted, “We're still trying to establish some scoring leaders and some defensive stoppers.” Tough non-conference match-ups early in the season will give younger players the opportunity to step up. Hemerka, the only starting senior, will anchor the young team through early SoCon and non-conference play. Hamilton’s return is much anticipated and should provide a huge lift for the team down the stretch. “We have a talented mix of players, and I think this is going to be a great year,” Hemerka said. The team is optimistic because of its talent. The ’Cats task will be to determine a system that allows them to use their talent most effectively.

Mark Rackley, Davidson's local Allstate Agent, is proud to announce sponsorship of the Allstate “Good Hands Halftime Shootout.” Two lucky contestants (students included) will receive a chance to win $10,000 for making a lay-up, foul shot, 3-pointer, and half-court shot in 25 seconds. Start practicing!

Allstate. You're in good hands.
200 North Harbor Place
704-655-2259
markrackley@allstate.com