Editorial

As we go into that good night, it’s the get-me-out-of-here time of year. In addition to going home like the rest of you, some of us are leaving a project that has consumed our time, provided much humor, nibbled at our souls, put us on Prilosec, and offered us, for better or worse, a different perspective on the Davidson experience. We are talking, of course, about editing The Davidsonian.

Monica Jamouneau and Mike Wellman have all made valuable contributions to the newspaper that go well beyond anything they could write in their resumes. Thanks to our elusive Yowl crew—Alex Hoyt and Dan Killian—for providing the funny stuff each week, sometimes only two days over deadline. (Said with love.) To the kids—Alissa Curran, Patrick McArdle, Katie Miller, Laura Van Oudenaren, and Jennifer Errington—who are hanging around for a few more semesters, thank you and good luck. And welcome to our newest editors: Caroline Wood and James Boswell.

We would also like to thank others who have contributed throughout our time here: Kate Gillespie, Joe Reed, Paige Taylor, Nathan Bradshaw, Brendan Parets, Jeff Yeakel, and Alissa Irei. Thank you to Bill Giduz and our own Ben Elinor for photos. And, to the two College presidents who have kept us informed and supported us, thank you. Bobby, we miss you, and Tom, we couldn’t be more glad that you’re here.

We’ve also had the sobering experiences of covering Jena and racism on campus. Off campus, we have tried to bridge the gap between the Town and the College with coverage of development, elections, and Town issues.

Next semester, we’re turning the paper over to Suzie Eckl, who, when she returns from Australia, will pick up where we left off. We cannot think of anyone on staff who is better qualified than she is to serve as Editor-in-Chief. Best of luck to you, Suzie. We promise to visit once we’ve hit 21-Year-Old Night.

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor-in-Chief
Summerlee Walter

Managing Editor
Pierce Trumbo

News Editors
Alissa Curran, Monica Jamouneau & Chris Moore

Perspectives Editors
Katie Miller & Laura Van Oudenaren

Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Errington & Mike Wellman

Yowl Editors
Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian

Sports Editors
Will Bryan & Patrick McArdle

Photography Editor
Ben Elinor

Business, Advertising, and Circulation Managers
Robbie Squibb, Karen VanderMolen & Halley Brantley

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

We would like to thank our senior editors who have worked, suffered, and laughed alongside us. Will Bryan, we feel privileged that our time here has coincided with several notable events on campus. From the renovation of Duke and the institution of theme halls to the new debt-free financial aid policy to the selection of a new President to the rise of the men’s basketball team, we have had the opportunity to cover campus-changing issues and events.

I’m co-opting the last inch to thank you, Pierce, for the truly incredible job that you have done as Managing Editor. From the late-night humor and Cast Iron Filter sing-alongs to scaring the staff into action to the exemplary job you did in bringing the campus’s attention to Town matters, I cannot thank you enough for your dedication and skill. I cannot think of anyone with whom I would rather share this experience.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2007

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Racial slurs in Belk Dorm not in Davidson spirit

To the Person Who Wrote Racial Slurs in Belk Dorm,

While we recognize your right to your own beliefs, we were disgusted by your mode of expression; please keep your opinions off the walls of our home. Your actions violated the sanctity of our community. Do not let it happen again.

Sincerely,
3rd Belk West

Davidsonian necessary outlet for student opinions

Katie Miller & Laura Van Oudenaren
Perspectives Editors

Davidson students freely express their opinions—loudly and frequently. Many of these opinions tend to become criticisms of whatever Davidsonian error or controversy is the current topic of conversation. As editors of the Perspectives section, we often bear the brunt of these criticisms. Every issue brings its own unique and trying obstacles. We editors are periodically at fault; despite hours spent in the office, inevitably, every so often a title is deleted or an article misattributed. We do not deny these occasional errors, but we do strive to make this paper as professional as possible.

Other criticism also arises with regard to the substance and variety of the articles. Our advice to this campus is not to stop criticism—if there’s one great thing about a liberal arts campus, it is independent thought. However, it’s also true that this paper is understaffed. The same writers are pressed into service week after week because we simply do not have enough students willing to submit articles. We’reNot referring solely to Perspectives, either; from reporting campus events to sports write-ups and editorials, you'll note the same authors grace these pages all too frequently. Why is it, in a school teeming with writing-intensive majors such as English and History, that we have only one person writing in the sports section this week apart from the Sports editors themselves? It’s the same story for the News section. This staff is not only editing but, for a large part, producing a great deal of the paper’s substance. Last year, we overheard a senior in the Union tell his friend that The Davidsonian is “a sinking ship.” We urge you to be a part of the change you’d like to see for this paper; if you’d like to have the SGA meetings reported, maybe it’s time to make that happen. Above all else, we urge you to appreciate this paper for what it is: a weekly publication produced by students for students. Let us know what interests you; we’re open to constructive criticism and suggestions for improvement. But one thing that keeps us satisfied is that, since people have so much to complain about, they must be at least reading the paper in order to form these opinions.

Last week, someone carved racial slurs in the Belk lounge. A few days later, someone vandalized the second Akers lounge. The now-infamous “free-speech board” in the Union consists of a few well-thought-out opinions overwhelmed by the inappropriate and provincial comments that surround them. Clearly, Davidson students need to learn to express their opinions in an appropriate and acceptable manner. Although some people might believe that it is sinking, we believe The Davidsonian is and will remain a great outlet for student opinions.

Katie Miller and Laura Van Oudenaren ’10 are English majors from New Smyrna Beach, FL, and Bethesda, MD.

Clinton: all politics, no political experience

No couple since the Rosenbergs has been as morally dubious as the Clintons. Between his affairs and perjuries and her inability to hold an opinion without consulting a poll, they make quite a pair. If the Clintons were not such media darlings, they would be burned at the stake. Does anyone have any idea what Hillary Clinton stands for? Does Hillary have any idea what she stands for? I doubt it. It must be hard for Hillary to converse at all since her conversations are constantly political. While trying to appeal to everyone, how can she make sure she does not contradict herself? She cannot. An obvious example was her inability to answer the question regarding driver’s licenses for illegal aliens during the Democratic Debate. I can understand her lack of opinions on everything in an attempt to get elected by appearing to have everyone’s opinion, but what I cannot understand is her apparent connections to Red China. If the Clintons were not such media darlings, they would be burned at the stake. Does anyone have any idea what Hillary Clinton stands for?

When asked about these connections (a rarity), her campaign normally responds with accusations of anti-Asian bigotry. It is important to note that Hillary Clinton raised $380,000 at a single fundraiser in Chinatown. For reference, John Kerry raised $24,000 during his entire 2004 campaign in Chinatown. Of Hillary’s $380,000, it is highly likely that a good chunk of it involves suspect donations. For example, the Clinton campaign has listed Shin K. Cheng as twice donating $1,000. There is one small problem: there is no record of Shin K. Cheng. The address he gave was a STD clinic where no one knew him. Several people have also come forward claiming to have been reimbursed for their donations. These “straw donations” are illegal.

There is also the case of Norman Hsu. Since 2003, Hong Kong-born Hsu was a major Democratic donor and fundraiser. He gave over $850,000 to Hillary Clinton’s campaign. However, Norman Hsu was not an innocent man. He was a fugitive wanted on fraud charges. Federal prosecutors most recently tacked on a charge of breaking campaign finance laws by donating to Hillary Clinton through other people (straw donations). Hillary Clinton vehemently denied any knowledge of this. I find statements like this hard to believe. This is a woman who is notoriously known for control. Apparently, she pulls the strings while everything runs smoothly and in her favor, but when it goes sour, she blames her staff or claims ignorance. Case in point: during November, several people came forward claiming that members of Clinton’s campaign had them ask Hillary Clinton certain questions. Hillary, of course, denied any knowledge of the plants. How long can denials like this continue before people realize that she either has no control of her campaign or that she has complete control and is trying to make herself look good?

Hillary Clinton needs to be asked how she feels she can be president with no significant accomplishments or experience. Yes, she was the First Lady, but does that make one presidential? Her big accomplishment as First Lady—health care—did not even receive a vote in Congress. Her senatorial career has not been full of huge legislative accomplishments, either. She should be questioned about her support of the clemency her husband granted to Puerto Rican terrorists and her refusal to release her White House correspondences. Clinton needs to be questioned with a lie detector, though, because she will not give the real answer under normal circumstances.

Bobby DesPain ’11 is undeclared. He is from St. Louis, MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.