THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY

Thrift stores can be funky fun

By CAROLINE WOOD
Staff Writer

After weeks of seeing the same gray sweater in every magazine and following one of my friends on multiple J.
Crew visits, I began to hearken to the call of the second-hand store, where the unique, well-loved, and sometimes bizarre
little sisters of the clothing world gather to try their luck with a second generation of shoppers.

All consignment shops seem to have a few traits in common: poor lighting, a cramped layout, heavily-botoxed proprietors, and an
unidentifiable, basement-like smell. However, each caters to its own audience of fashionistas, whether it be old ladies searching for the
styles of decades past or hip youngsters ready for a new addition to the indie museum that is their wardrobe.
I thought I'd sample a few of Charlotte’s more reputable establishments.

Sweet Repeats Consignment, located at 300 East Blvd. Ste 2, claims to be “an upscale consignment boutique.” The owners certainly
believe it; their clothing, shoes, and accessories -- designer and otherwise -- sell for prices barely reduced from their original
1994 value. The four-dollar rack did offer some financial relief, but the discounted selections were far less classy than their
more highly priced counterparts. The perfectly organized racks contain more than a few unique, stylish finds, if you could find
them wedged between the purple lace blouses and pink and orange stiletto boots. Perusing the flamboyant, festive display was a
fun trip back in time, but when my comrades convinced me to try on a periwinkle leopard print coat, I
knew I had gone too far.

Since I was already at Sweet Repeats, I couldn’t resist visiting Very Terry Consignments, practically next door, at Ste 4.
Populated mostly with embroidered sweaters and chartreuse blouses, and illuminated by a lone pink neon squiggle on the wall, Very
Terry feels like your Aunt Deb’s storage unit, although perhaps a bit dustier. Keep the store in mind if you’re
the type to dress up for Halloween.

A ten-minute drive from East Blvd, Hong Kong Vintage (1005 Central Ave) draws you a little further back in time,
to the 60s and 70s, when the patterned frocks and caramel jackets lining the walls were in vogue. This shop
was slightly funkier and much better priced than my first two forays. Hong Kong offers men’s vintage clothing (which most
consignment shops do not) as well as off-beat t-shirts, pumps in every imaginable color, and a large case of costume
jewelry. Do check out their extensive collection of boots.

If you still have a desire to dress outside the box, there are a multitude of other options; try Classic
Attic Consignments (4301 Park Rd), A Closet Full (1729 Garden Terrace), or South End Exchange (1616 Camden Rd). Even at
the best secondhand shops, you’ll get to thumb through fashions you never knew existed, and you may suffer from a
life-threatening bout of the cringes. Despite some shocking styles, the wonderful thing is that you can never know what will
be there one day, so for the mall-weary, these chintzy surprises may just be worth the risk.

Students pioneer eco-friendly housing

By SAMANTHA TALLEY
Staff Writer

“Anyone want bagels?” Lindsay Brownell, ’10, pulls several sacks out of her bag and hoists them onto her desk. “I’m
in Eco-op, and someone just...Donated a bunch of bagels to us. We can’t eat them all, so we’re handing them
out,” she explains to her religion class. Bleary-eyed students smile as they munch their surprise breakfasts and, for a moment,
push Heim and his theory of mimetic transition to the back of their minds. The Monday morning surprise would not
have been possible last May before the Ecological Cooperative (Eco-op) became a living option for the first time this year.
Housed in the former Dean Rusk Office at 439 N. Main Street, Eco-op gives ten students a chance to live
environmentally conscious lives while closely working with their faculty advisors, Professor of English Dr. Annie Ingram and Professor of Biology
Dr. Chris Paradise.

“As faculty advisor to the Environmental Action Coalition, I had conversations with the Eco-op proposers early on as we talked
about their vision and who to contact about pursuing this idea,” Paradise said. “I love working with the students, especially
on a project like this where they are so committed to making a difference and are also thinking big —
they’re not afraid to challenge the status quo.”

Ingram had a similar experience: “I started working with the Eco-op proposers in the fall semester of 2006. I had
lived in a co-op when I was in college and was thrilled when this group of students wanted to pursue
the possibility of having one at Davidson.” House meetings are held every Monday afternoon, she explained, and she helps the
students with “everything from house logistics (finances, food ordering, etc.) to programming to principles of cooperative and sustainable living.” Ingram
added that “the Eco-op residents are incredibly capable in all areas, so mostly I’m around to listen and guide them
when necessary.”

All the more amazing when you consider how many responsibilities these 10 students have taken on. “It’s more family-style here,”
Lindsay commented. “We have house meetings every Monday and house dinners every Tuesday and Thursday. I feel like we’re a
lot more involved with the house itself because we have to clean it ourselves and make our own meals, so
it’s a lot more like living in the real world.”

Major goals of the Eco-op residents include improving energy conservation and increasing the amount of local food in their meals.
“We buy a lot of food from Commons, Absolute Organics, and the Home Economist,” Lindsay said. “We have a Wachovia
checking account that we use to pay for it.” And although they are concerned with energy conservation, she went on,
“Just for the record, I'd like to say that we do take showers daily and use electricity!”

Throughout the year, residents of the co-op will also work to spread ecological awareness around the campus. “We’re planning to
make hors d’oeuvres for a group that’s having a big meeting in the Lily Gallery in October, and we’re planning
to host some freshmen halls for dinner for Hall Programs,” Lindsay explained.

See Eco-Op, page 7

SEPT 26, 2007

Mike Wellman in Kannapolis, NC. Today, she shares a passion for dance with her seven laundry, recognizing them and talking
with them. She cites the warm sense of It's important, Belk oneal to make sure that you do what your
heart tells you. If you’re not passionate about something, she wants students to know that they can do anything they
want to do. To close, Belk offered the following advice.
