Davidson raises tuition by 25% so students can graduate debt-free SEE PAGE 7

Two killed, several injured in Econ problem set brainstorming session SEE PAGE 8

Seriously, if you own a PT Cruiser you are a loser SEE ARTICLE ON RIGHT

Tolstoy's text messages long, tedious, says Turgenev SEE PAGE 8

Your Davidsonian Honor Section Editors: Dan Killian, Alex Hoyt

He has dia-beetis: Wilford Brimley

Might be living in Flowe next semester: Eddie Hickman

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

A recent Car and Driver survey revealed that the PT Cruiser line, Chrysler’s retro-styled hatchback launched in 2000, caters specifically to losers, especially those with poor social skills, thrifty dispositions, and no sense of aesthetics.

“2 Fast 2 FURIOUS” ISSUE

Pen Stealer on the Loose

Campus Safety has issued a school-wide safety alert following the disappearance of several Bic ballpoint pens and a Uniball felt-tip. Victims report his pick-up line is most frequently: “Hey, I forgot a writing utensil...mind if I borrow one and give it back at the end of class?” But for this crook, borrow is a synonym of steal. He fancies clicky pens, chews on caps, and like a savage shark about to attack, he is especially attracted to fountain pens with shiny metallic parts.

Five W-Courses that Never Made It
1. Christ in Space
2. Bikes, Tacos, and the Modern State of Israel
3. Paper Towels and Post-Modern Angst
4. Tutankhamen, Soulja Boy, and the Holy Ghost
5. Big Pillows: Comfy, or a Substitute for a Male Companion?

Pathways Present Particularly Problematic Pedestrian Problem

In a student-led panel discussion held in the Sprinkle Room last Wednesday night, unrest concerning the campus’s confusing pathway network became abundantly clear. In order to walk from Chambers to Belk Dormitory, students must navigate a circuitous half-mile route, carefully avoiding hippies in hammocks, protruding bricks, and, in the winter, random patches of black ice. The journey culminates in the infamous “wishbone” pathway in which students are forced to choose between two equally unnecessary paths.

The wishbone conundrum is the masterpiece of landscape architect Wilford Bickestaff, whose interest in circular formations is also evidenced by the giant useless cylindrical playground impediment between the Library and the Union. When asked about his architectural inspiration, his answer was simple. “So I started by blowing up a map of the campus to about four by five feet. Then I printed it on a transparency and laid it over a Twister mat. After coding each of the buildings on campus to correlate with the existing circles on the Twister mat, I invited over a couple of friends. Right foot Chambers, left hand Cunningham. Path!”

Mr. Bickestaff attributes the meandering nature of his pathways to a childhood fascination with Chutes and Ladders. His desire to connect disparate parts of campus has led to plans for a brick pathway along the Cross Country trails.

November 7, 2007

Guy Abuses Car-Locking Privileges

Filmore Jenkins has an inferiority complex. An ex-high school football player who didn’t quite make it, he feels the need to make up for his lack of self-esteem by...Repeatedly locking his car so that the light flashes and the horn honks can be heard by anyone within a 50-foot radius of his 1984 Mazda Miata. Sometimes he presses the lock button on his electronic key four or five times, just so people know that he is legit because he owns a car. The baller himself. “It makes me feel pretty good about myself because then people know that I don’t just ride a bike or something... More street cred, ya know...,” he said. Jenkins has been seen by friends and neighbors occasionally using the “behind the back” or even the “through the legs” locking technique with his keys, imitating a basketball pass in order to appear more like a “baller.” “I’ve never actually played basketball before, but you’d never be able to guess it based on my locking skills,” Jenkins said, trying to hold back a smile.

Formerly, Jenkins used only to press the lock button once on his electronic keys, but, when his performance at work began to wane, he decided he needed to be taken more seriously. After an intense two-week locking spree, sources close to Jenkins reported that he was distraught over his friends’ ignorance of his “unlocking skills.” Jenkins felt like he was only half the man he could be when he could not hear a horn honk upon unlocking his vehicle. “The lights would flash and all, but after a while it got sort of old without the horn honk. So I took my car back to the dealership and now my car honks anytime I lock it, unlock it or recline my seat. I am so legit.”

Davidson enhanced its reputation as the home of the most mediocre collegiate sporting facility in the South last Tuesday when the Board of Trustees announced plans to break ground on a 50-meter cinder track and a two-lane, above-ground swimming pool. Those projects were given precedence over the construction of a tetherball pole, which is tentatively scheduled for completion in late 2011. These projects are very much in keeping with the standard set by the landscaping of Davidson's Par 9, three-hole golf course, on which four-year-olds regularly shoot par with Fisher Price clubs. “A three-hole course is ridiculous,” Davidson Men's Golf Team captain Jonathon Koo said. “It's like asking the swim team to practice in a kiddy pool.”

“Some students think our golf course is a little sub-par,” Athletic Director Michael Ditka chuckled, “but what they don't realize is the premium we place on academics.” The track team, however, is very much excited about the construction of the new cinder facility, which is also to include a pole vault pit, a high jump mat, and an area for the long- and triple-jumps. “We're really psyched about this track, even if the surface was last used in the late 1950s and runs roughly 10 to 15 seconds slower per mile, on average,” Davidson Men's Track and Field captain Jan Bialos said. “It's also great because our long-jumpers no longer have to practice in the sandbox of the kids my girlfriend babysits on Davidson Concord.”