2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Representative Jesse Lyons said, “My purpose at Davidson was to show KA how to operate as a good fraternity and
not just a good social club.” Lyons helped implement new standards for members, community service events, academic policies, and rules
regarding the education of new members. In addition, a new Alumni Advisory Committee, including local alumni, will come to meetings
every other week and advise the chapter on various issues.

“KA enacted new objectives on the basis of brotherhood rather than social considerations,” Sigma chapter President Walker Badham ’08 said.
Additionally, KA has placed major emphasis on community service and philanthropic events for its reemergence in the Davidson community.

“KA’s hopes are to be the pioneers of a new type of recruitment based on clarity and to eventually spur
other fraternities to follow their lead.”
--Walker Badham ’08, President of KA

The fraternity created multiple committees to plan events to support the Muscular Dystrophy Association and the Jay Chitty Foundation in
honor of its departed brother Jay Chitty ’07. The fraternity has also set aside weekly time slots to do community
service with the Ada Jenkins program and other organizations in the community.

“House membership is not really recognized, and they [members of KA] want people to know KA is full of great
leaders around campus,” KA Vice President Anders Gustafson said. KA contains varsity athletes, members of SGA and Honor Council, volunteer
firefighters, and members of the ROTC program.

Because of the laws pertaining to the current period of recruitment by fraternities at Davidson, KA’s revised new member education
plans seem to be crucial to its return. The revised new member education plan includes a detailed calendar of recruitment
and pledging events with explanations and goals for each of these events. Additionally, the members of KA have brought clarity
to the recruitment and pledging process, allowing potential brothers to know exactly what will occur.

“KA’s hopes are to be the pioneers of a new type of recruitment based on clarity and to eventually spur
other fraternities to follow their lead,” Badham said of the new plan.

“The changes were not made to make KA elitist,” Lyons said, “but designed to bring back the idea of fraternity
to the Sigma chapter at Davidson.”

Patterson Court Advisor Cheyenne Schultz has high hopes for the brothers of KA. “Having them back adds new leadership to
strengthen the overall mission and vision of the community: to make men better men, and to make women better women,”
she said.

---

09/27/07 Intoxicated student Patterson Court

An officer received a call from the Outpost manager that a student was driving the Outpost golf cart in the
direction of Kappa Sig. When the manager began to chase the cart, the driver stopped and said that he needed
the golf cart to help a friend. The manager advised the student that she was calling Campus Police. On arrival,
the reporting officer was informed that the driver, a male student, had gone inside a fraternity house. The officer observed
the subject sitting at a table. The student admitted taking the golf cart to help his friend. He advised that
his friend was in the men’s bathroom. The officer investigated the bathroom and found the subject to be extremely intoxicated
and in need of medical attention. The officer called for support, and the student was sent to the hospital to
be treated for alcohol poisoning.

09/27/07 Intoxicated student Richardson Dorm

Campus Police received a call saying that a female student was intoxicated and unconscious in Richardson Dorm. Medics attended to
and transported her to the hospital for alcohol poisoning.

09/29/07 Harassment Akers Dorm

An officer was dispatched to a disturbance outside of Akers Dorm after students advised that a green full-size Chevy truck
with two white males had pulled up and were harassing them and two females. The officer checked the area and
was unable to locate the subjects or the truck.

09/29/07 Cart/Car collision Baker Parking Lot

An officer was dispatched to Baker Sports Parking Lot to respond to an accident involving a Davidson College-owned golf cart
and a personally-owned vehicle. Upon arrival at the scene, the officer met with a Davidson College employee, who stated that
she was in control of the golf cart when she put the vehicle in neutral and left the vehicle. The
golf cart then proceeded to roll approximately 120 ft. in an easterly direction and hit a silver Honda Civic, owned
by another Davidson College employee. Damage to the Honda was contained to the driver’s side bumper area and the driver’s
side quarter panel. The owner of the car was not on campus when the incident occurred but was contacted by
the officer. Estimated damage to the vehicle is 750 dollars.

09/30/07 Fire alarm Martin Court—Flowe

An officer was dispatched to a fire alarm call at Martin Court—Flowe senior apartments. The Davidson Fire Department responded and
checked the interior of the building. The firemen located a bad smoke detector head in one apartment and a smoke
detector missing in another apartment. An officer sent the defective smoke detector to Physical Plant for repairs.

Race, from page 1

Davidson desegregated when it admitted two African students in 1963 and two African-American students in 1964. However, chapel was still
mandatory andThe College only counted attendance at white churches. In response, George Nzongola-Ntalaja from Zaire lobbied the administration to count
his attendance at a local African-American church and succeeded in changing the policy. The College has not always been so
aware of injustices in the community, however. During the 1940s, an overcrowded, impoverished African-American housing development lacking indoor plumbing and
running water sat on a dirt road less than 100 yards north of Main Street. It took the fire that
raged through the development on Feb. 19, 1950, to alert Davidson students to the development’s presence. The Dec. 8, 1950
issue of The Davidsonian quotes then-President Walter Lingle as saying, “Many of us had walked by that alley every day,
but we had never realized the conditions. You know, some of us go through the world looking at everything and
seeing nothing.”

After the fire, Davidson students responded compassionately by raising over $5,300 to support the YMCA Christmas Gift Fund. The College
continued to face problems based on ignorance, though. In 1991, the renovation of the College laundry revealed that the employee
restrooms were still segregated. Instead of assuming that the two unlabeled restrooms were for men and women, respectively, white employees
used one restroom, and African-American employees used the other. According to Timberlake, some of the employees were unaware that the
bathrooms were not segregated per official College policy.

Addressing student ignorance regarding how one’s actions might affect one’s peers is at the root of much of the discussion
that surrounds race on campus today. The presence of a Confederate flag in Patterson Court, for example, led to productive
discussions between Alpha Phi Alpha and Sigma Alpha Epsilon. According to Dean of Students Tom Shandley, these discussions are the
key to solving ignorance. “People have to be in dialogue about differences,” he said. “Too often the response is we
have a campus forum about this issue. But that’s not the best venue for these conversations. They’re a good venue
for questions and answers, but they don’t necessarily draw the people you need to [attend].”

Discussions have not stopped some anonymous members of the community from writing a racial slur in marker across the rear
door of Little Dormitory a few weeks ago or from drawing cartoons featuring swastikas in a bathroom stall in Cannon
Dormitory over the past few weeks. After the slur appeared on Little, Associate Dean of Students and Director of Residence
Life Patty Perillo organized a series of hall meetings to talk about what happened and to brainstorm ways to address
instances of hate.

The Residence Life Office (RLO) and the Dean of Students office are also collaborating to train staff to facilitate discussions
like these. Reports of insensitivity have not been limited to the dormitories, however. At a party a few weekends ago,
one student accused another student of belonging to a fraternity composed of “a bunch of n****r-haters.” An African-American student who
overheard this remark confronted the student at another party the next weekend, explaining that the first student’s use of a
racial slur was offensive and that several of the brothers in the fraternity were his friends. A report of the
incident reached the Dean of Students office, but the student who had been offended wanted nothing official done because the
students who had used the racial slur apologized both to the individual and to the fraternity.

Shandley explained that, because the remark was not aimed toward a specific person, it fell outside of the Code of
Responsibility’s harassment clause. He also cautioned that, in a situation in which the offended party does not want the administration
to address the offending party, the Dean of Students office still has the option to pursue charges against the student
but responds on a case-by-case basis. “It’s a judgment call,” Shandley said. If a student does want to pursue charges
or if the Dean of Students office deems it necessary, the offending student will be held accountable under the Code
of Responsibility’s harassment policy, which reads in part: “Harassment is unwanted behavior that has the purpose or effect of unreasonably
interfering with a person’s or a group of persons’ educational, work, social or living activities.... Types of harassment include: Peer
harassment involves persistent, intentional degradation, intimidation or abuse of another person.... Discriminatory harassment involves conduct of an offensive, demeaning, intimidating
or hostile nature based on race, color, national origin, religion, gender, orientation, age or disability.”

Shandley cautions students to remember that Davidson is not the only community in which racially-motivated harassment occurs. “Friends of color
I have tell me that it happens to them all their lives,” he said. At Davidson, however, students who personally
encounter racism, sexism or any other harassment are protected by the Code of Responsibility. “It will not be tolerated. That
is not the community that we say we’re about and that we all agree to live by when we sign
on to come here,” Shandley said.
