THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2008 ARTS 5

‘No Country For Old Men’ sweeps Academy Awards

By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

For weeks one could almost grasp the low, excited susurrus emanating from arts and aesthetic aficionados alike, who have been
anxiously awaiting the one night when the brightest stars ascend from the silver screen to the red carpet in a
flurry of silk taffeta and Armani. The opulent display of wealth, beauty, and dedication to the art world of film
culminated in this year’s 80th Academy Awards on Feb. 24. And hidden behind the lambent china doll faces and debonair
Gatsby grins were nerves of steel, as each nominee patiently awaited the academy’s choices. The results of the evening paid
an enormous amount of recognition to “No Country for Old Men,” yet were seasoned by a few surprising omissions, and
left some contestants completely empty-handed.

Representing a broad scope of film genres, the nominees for Best Picture included the bittersweet love story “Atonement,” foil to
the unconventional teenage puppy-love-gone-drastically-wrong “Juno.” Coming in at a close call was a trilogy of this year’s arguably most powerful
films: “Michael Clayton,” “There Will Be Blood” and “No Country for Old Men,” the last of which took the Oscar.

Daniel Day-Lewis won the title of Best Actor for his portrayal of Daniel Plainview, the power-hungry protagonist of “There Will
Be Blood” (written, directed, and produced by Paul Thomas Anderson), thus beating out strong contestants such as Johnny Depp in
his portrayal of “Sweeney Todd” and Tommy Lee Jones in “In the Valley of Elah.” “Blood” also was awarded “Best
Cinematography.”

Holding their own amidst the torrent of successful actors, French actress Marion Cotillard won Best Actress for her remarkable transformation
into the French singer/songwriter legend Edith Piaf in “La Vie en Rose,” also credited as “La Môme” in the French
version; the American version also won Best Makeup. Other Best Actress nominees included Cate Blanchett for her role as the
Virgin Queen, Julie Christie in “Away From Her,” Laura Linney in “The Savages” and Ellen Page for her part in
“Juno.” The Best Supporting Actress title went to Tilda Swinton for “Michael Clayton.”

A truly remarkable film, the Coen brothers’ “No Country for Old Men” received an additional three laurels for its Best
Supporting Actor, Spanish actor Javier Bardem, Best Adapted Screenplay, and Best Director. Given such a crowd of accomplished and seasoned
film veterans, it might have seemed slightly distasteful to award the young “Juno” star a title.For her comedic role coping
with teen pregnancy, and rightly so; however, “Juno” did not depart the scene unrecognized. Picking up an Oscar for Best
Original Screenplay, it goes to show that what young actors might lack in experience can be rectified by situational humor
and irony. Like the beauty and charm of “La Vie en Rose,” another Parisian-inspired winning film displayed remarkable creativity with
a delightful cast of characters who certainly revolutionized the culinary world. “Ratatouille” rightfully marinated in its glory of Best Animated
Feature Film, beating out two other contestants: “Persepolis” and “Surf’s Up.” Adapted from the children’s novel by Philip Pullman, “The
Golden Compass” received Best Visual Effects. The best short film went to “Le Mozart des Pickpockets,” and “Peter and the
Wolf” received the Best Animated Short Film. As for documentaries, “Taxi to the Dark Side” won the Best Documentary, and
“Freeheld” received Best Documentary Short. Almost tying “No Country” for the number of awards received, “The Bourne Ultimatum” picked up
three Oscars for the film’s production quality: one for Sound Mixing, Sound Editing, and lastly Film Editing. “Atonement” finally received
recognition for Best Original Score; however, the song “Falling Slowly,” performed by Glen Hansard and Marketa Irglova from the film
“Once,” received Best Original Song. The most underrepresented films of the evening were “Elizabeth: The Golden Age,” which finally received
a win for Best Costume, and “Atonement.” No doubt the visual and historical representation of “Elizabeth’s” costumes were superb, but
Blanchett should have received recognition for her outstanding portrayal of the powerful yet vulnerable woman instead of her wardrobe. Blanchett
was also nominated for Best Supporting Actress for her role as Bob Dylan — and again, was outmatched. Likewise, Joe
Wright’s screen rendition of Ian McEwan’s 2001 novel “Atonement” should have been awarded something other than, or in addition to,
Original Score, which seems more like a consolation prize than a proper commentary on the film itself. The story speaks
of passion, sin, and redemption in 1935 England, acted to perfection. One criticism came from a New York Times review,
which deemed the film a “decorous, heavily decorated and ultimately superficial reading of the book.” If the academy critics judged
this film faute de mieux, they probably should have read the book themselves. The choices for the Oscars this year
reflect a newfound stability in cinema, which had suffered a halt in new material due to the writers’ strike and
loss of faith in its viewers. This year, there was a particularly strong preference for the emotionally charged behemoths of
violence, rather than delicate intricacies of romance or the key comedic buffer, showing that Hollywood still has what it takes
to make gritty films of substance and stand by them.

- Take lunch to work in reusable packaging
- Reuse carrier bags at the supermarket
- Buy refillable or bulk items
- Cancel unwanted newspapers and junk mail
- Take old clothes and books to a charity shop (they’re tax deductible!)
- BE A RECYCLEMANIAC! Know the 3 R’s: REDUCE - REUSE - RECYCLE
- Cycle or walk rather than driving
- Start composting in your garden
