THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

DLC educates the younger community with students

By BIANCA MITCHELL
Staff Writer

This semester, several Davidson students have teamed up with the Davidson Lands Conservancy to form the DLC Educational Outreach Program.
The program has been successful in teaching local fourth-grade students about the environment and the importance of land preservation in
Davidson, and is in a way becoming a tradition for local middle school curriculum.

Pam Dykstra, a board member of the DLC, travels with the student volunteers to local elementary schools where they play
an educational game called “Oh Deer” to encourage fourth graders to think proactively about their community. “Oh Deer” was created
by Betsy Brewer ’07 as a part of her biology thesis, and uses the eager and energetic minds of young
students to teach them about survival in the wilderness.

The game’s success is due in part to its simplicity. At the beginning, the class is split into two groups.
The two groups stand in a line, back-to-back, with the groups ten yards apart. One line of students is given
the role of deer, while the other is told they are the resources of food, water, and shelter, all necessary
for the deer’s survival. Each of the “resource” children are given a sign: hands on their stomach to signify food,
hands on the mouth to represent water, or hands on the head meaning shelter. When the students hear the word
“go,” the students representing deer must run to find their matching symbol in the opposite line. Some children will not
be able to find a match, and will turn into resources consequently, while the ones who do discover their resource
counterparts will continue onto the next round or “season” as deer.

After the game is over, students gather to discuss the meaning of the activity, and are shown its relation to
the environment and the animals of the Davidson community. The DLC volunteers guide the discussion to show students the problem
with the decreasing amount of natural resources in our environment, relating it directly to the game in which some deer
were not able to survive due to the decreasing number of resources. The children are encouraged to think of new
ways to help preserve resources and how they can make a difference in our environment. In an effort to jumpstart
the environmentally aware minds of these students, each child is given a DLC reusable bag.

Katie Epstein ’10 became involved in the program last fall when she met Dykstra at the volunteer fair. “The program
is an effective way to educate Davidson youth about the existence, and ecological importance of, open space. Hopefully the program
will get kids interested in what’s going on around them and the conservation of [environmental] space,” Epstein said. “In a
place like Davidson where development is rampant, it’s extremely important to teach kids to understand the interconnectedness of actions, especially
those of humans, and how they relate to the world around them.”

See DLC, page 4

Michael Chabon, Pulitzer Prize-winning author and this year’s Conarroe lecturer,

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2008

relates the inspiration and process behind his novel “The Yiddish Policeman’s Union”

Chabon, from page 1

As a result, “The Yiddish Policemen’s Union” was published in 2007. In his poised but dryly-humorous speech, Michael Chabon reflected
on growing up as an “American Jew,” the culture with which he identifies. Though he admitted that he is not
extremely religious, he did describe himself as a “nice Jewish boy.”

“It’s always a good idea to make a mistake if you want to have anything good to write about.” -
Michael Chabon

As an adult, he has learned to embrace his Judaism and to use his culture and religion as inspiration for
many of his published works. Chabon is known for novels such as “The Mysteries ofPittsburgh,” “Wonder Boys” and Pulitzer Prize-winning
“The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay.” Chabon also published several books of short stories in addition to a number
of political and literary essays. Before entering the University of California at Irvine’s graduate program, Chabon was at first fearful
of approaching the genres of science fiction and mystery. “Mystery writers were loved but never referenced,” Chabon said, regarding his
experience with science fiction writers in the classroom. Clearly, Chabon has helped to change this outlook, since multiple Davidson English
classes this year used his novels as texts. A piece of advice he gives to aspiring young writers? “It’s always
a good idea to make a mistake if you want to have anything good to write about.”

After Chabon presented his lecture, he opened up the floor to questions from the audience. Questions covered a wide range
of topics, including examinations of his works and personal questions regarding his inspirations. The audience was so eager to ask
questions that Tom Ross was forced to cut the Q&A short.

Davidson students join with southeast STAND chapters
By IAN BOND
Staff Writer

Last weekend, five Davidson students joined 134 other members of other college and high school STAND chapters throughout the southeast
at UNC-Chapel Hill to discuss new methods of action on behalf of the refugees in Darfur. STAND is the student-led
branch of the anti-genocide organization, Genocide Intervention Network. STAND was founded in 2004 by the grandson of a Holocaust survivor.
The group, which has 800 chapters in high schools and universities nationwide, focuses on ending the genocide in Darfur. STAND
also works to prevent genocide in other areas where ethnic conflict exists, such as Kenya and Burma, by generating local
media coverage and grassroots lobbying.

The Davidson branch of STAND began officially last semester with a screening of the critically acclaimed “The Devil Came on
Horseback.” Last semester’s Darfurfast fundraiser raised over $1,200 through the participation of over 150 students, faculty, and staff. According to
Savedarfur.org, government-supported militias (known as the Janjaweed) were created in response to rebel attacks on military bases in Darfur. Since
then, the Janjaweed have been let loose by the government in Khartoum. Thousands of stories of rape, murder, and torture
have come from Darfur in the past five years. By some estimates, over 400,000 Sudanese have been killed, 2.3 million
are living in internally displaced persons camps in Darfur, and another 200,000 Sudanese are living in refugee camps in neighboring
Chad.

North Carolina college STAND chapters plan a statewide Week of Action Mar. 31-Apr. 4. During this week, chapters will focus
on STAND’s current campaign, SEAL. The campaign encourages President Bush to stick to the promises he made about ending the
genocide, enforce UNAMID, the UN/African Union peacekeeping mission in Darfur, apply an all-Sudan solution to the conflict, and lobby China
to pressure the government in Khartoum to end its genocidal actions. The week will include an advocacy letter writing power-hour
and a speech by the only American to remain in Rwanda during the 1994 genocide. A three-day mock refugee camp
will be set up on campus where “refugees” will live in as closely simulated a refugee camp atmosphere as possible.
The week will conclude with a concert featuring student performers, testimonials, poems, and documentary clips.

Teddy Schlanger '08, Davidson STAND chapter president, realizes the difficulty in gaining student support for a new organization. “Though we
recognize that Davidson students are spread so thinly, we believe that this issue is so important that everyone should consider
helping out,” Schlanger said. “Following the success of the student-led divestment campaign which resulted in Congress’ unanimous passing of the
Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act, the impact of individual students must not be underestimated. No one should feel discouraged by
a lack of knowledge or limitation of time; it’s about wanting to help.”

For more information or to help with the Week of Action contact teschlanger or iabond.
