Nee, THE DAVIDSONIAN

Celebrations to come

As much as Davidson fans love to hate on our SoCon rivals over the mountains and through the woods in
Boone, you have to appreciate the sort of precedent that Appalachian State set on Saturday in terms of college football
and college athletics as a whole. Unless you’re a Michigan fan, if you bleed di Vanderbilt, scrapping its athletic department
altogether to focus on academics and having one of its more remarkable years in the SEC. Underrated teams continue to
tell the story about how remarkable this is: for took down the blue and maize. Davidson will get a chance
to do the same to the Pac 10’s best on December 8. Long live the little guy.

SPORTS

By Patrick McARDLE
Sports Editor

This year’s Sports Section is a new chapter in a long tradition. We believe that our new three-page format will
improve the quality of the section, forcing us to focus on interesting, engaging material that dives confidently into the depths
of our sports scene while abandoning articles that function merely as augmented press releases. That said, official press releases do
not drop from the sky and they require no little amount of talent; they are the product of the Sports
Information Department under its new leader, Marc Gignac.

“We handle the total media operation,” Gignac said of the department. “Every press release, layout, program design, and other sports
media has been touched by someone in this office.” With such powerful influence over shaping our media, every Davidson sports
fan should know about him. Gignac is no stranger to the North Carolinian sports scene; he grew up in Charlotte
and stayed in-state for his undergraduate degree at UNC-Chapel Hill. After an internship with the Charlotte Knights, he headed north
to Canisius College in Buffalo for his masters. He returned to become Director of Sports Information after a brief detour
as Assistant Director of Sports Information at George Mason.

“Davidson is where Canisius wants to be in 10 years, a top academic institution,” Gignac remarked. “It still has a
long way to go to catch up to Davidson.” Still, he says the switch was a natural one. “Davidson and
Canisius have similar enrollments, and I was attracted to the smallness and closeness (to Charlotte) of Davidson.”

By WILL BRYAN
Sports Editor

For many Davidson students, new and returning, their last vivid memory of the men’s basketball team was a CBS close-up
of Stephen Curry ’10 after he fouled out in the opening round of the 2007 NCAA Tournament. Curry finished that
game with 30 points, and the Davidson players walked off the court with their heads held high and their minds
focused on one thing: the start of the 2007-2008 season.

Although the Wildcats won’t be conducting team practices until October and won’t take the court until the middle of November,
that does not mean that they haven’t been busy since that not-so-long-ago March afternoon. Early in the summer, Curry was
asked to try out for the FIBA U-19 U.S. national team. After making the final cut along with national names
like Michael Beasley, Tajuan Porter, and Deon Thompson, Curry had the opportunity to travel to Serbia and compete against players
from all over the world. The road to the world championship was littered with high hurdles as the national team
faced serious opposition from the squads of Curry averaged 9.4 ppg for the U.S. national team. The team finished second
in the world championships.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2007

New SID promises media changes

Gignac’s favorite part of the job boils down to bringing the Davidson community into the spotlight: “We tell stories that
accentuate Davidson’s positives as both a great academic institution and a great place for college sports.” A key part of
extending Davidson beyond the bubble and into the wider world is continued technological innovation. “My goal is to take what
was already here and make sure it evolves with the new technology available,” Gignac said. The new website that many
Wildcat fans may have stumbled upon in the last few days is essential to this process. The new website is
more sports-friendly because it is similar to other college sports websites. Perhaps more importantly, it is also easier to update.
According toGignac, the newfound technology already paid dividends. An example occurred at the football game on Saturday, where Gignac was
able to get a picture from a photographer working for UNC Pembroke and upload the picture onto the website the
same night. Furthermore, the site facilitates the use of new technologies, like live streaming, that bridge the oceans between Davidsonians
at home and abroad. When one looks at the new website, it’s hard to miss Stephen Curry ’10 on the
top banner, and I had to ask Gignac his impression of the impact Davidson Basketball’s new national recognition was having
upon his job. “I think (Davidson’s recent success in Men’s Basketball) has made it a household name. Growing up in
Charlotte, I’ve always known about Davidson, but I think there has been a change in national awareness.” Hopefully, awareness will
continue to grow as Davidson achieves increased success in the sporting world.

Men’s basketball has busy summer

Argentina, France, and Serbia. Curry scored 19 points and hit the go-ahead three-pointer to lead the United States past host
Serbia in the last game of the preliminary rounds, and he put up 12 points in the U.S. blowout win
over Argentina in the world championship semifinals. Unfortunately for Curry and the United States, the Serbian national team overcame the
U.S. speed and quickness in the championship finals as the Serbs pulled out a 74-69 victory. Curry finished the world
championships with an average of 9.4 points per game, shooting 58 percent from the field. According to several not-so-objective viewers,
Curry returns for his sophomore season an inch and a half taller and several pounds of muscle heavier.

Curry wasn’t the only Wildcat active on a national team this past summer. Max Paulhus Gosselin ’09, the proverbial “freak”
of the Davidson defense, represented his native Canada in the FISU games. Gosselin traveled to Bangkok, Thailand for two weeks
in August and played on the Canadian development team. The Davidson coaching staff was also plenty active over the summer
months as the coaches hit the recruiting trail, touting Davidson’s preseason Top 25 ranking as written by Andy Katz. The
preseason accolades continued this week as Lindy’s released their preseason predictions, ranking the Wildcats 18th nationally and Curry as the
fourth-best shooting guard in the country. Armed with a team returning every letterman from last year’s NCAA tournament run, associate
head coach Matt Matheny went about lining up one of the toughest out-of-conference schedules in recent Davidson history. The Wildcats
will take on nationally ranked UNC and Duke in “home” contests at Bobcats Arena in Charlotte. They will also travel
out to Anaheim, CA to play nationally ranked UCLA in the prestigious John Wooden Classic. Although the Nov. 14 opening
date may never come soon enough for some, Wildcat country has plenty to be excited about in the meantime.

Volleyball (3-2)
3-0 Win against Radford
3-0 Win against UNCW
3-2 Win against James Madison
1-3 Loss Against High Point
0-3 Loss Against UConn
Next up:
9/8 at Wingate
9/15 vs. Lenoir-Rhyne
Notes:
9/7 vs. NC A&T
9/8 vs. Air Force
Sarabeth Peele ’11 made SoCon Player of the Week her first week with 31 kills and a .446 kill %.

Football (1-0)
31-21 win against UNC Pembroke
Cody Elder ’08 filled in nicely for the departed Brad Smith with 4 PATs and a 34-yard field goal.

Women’s Soccer (1-1)
1-5 loss against NC State
1-0 win against High Point
Next up:
9/7 at Air Force
9/9 at Colorado College
Notes:
Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10 and Lauren Conner ’10 lead the team in goals with 2 apiece.

Men’s Soccer (0-2)
0-2 loss against St. Mary’s
2-3 loss against San Jose St.
The Wildcats nearly scored the go-ahead goal against San Jose St., ultimately losing in Double OT.

Field Hockey (2-0)
4-2 win against Christopher Newport
10-1 win vs. Mercyhurst
Next:
9/7 vs. Stanford
9/8 at Longwood
Notes:
Sarah Addison ’09 and Kayli Maxwell ’08 both recorded hat tricks in their last game.

Cross Country
Men: Wake Forest Relays
15. Sam Morris ’08: 23:29
Josh Parkey ’11: 24:34
18. Greg Mareil ’11: 25:14
Charlie Schmitt ’11: 25:23

Women: Wake Forest Relays
Finished 3rd Overall
Caroline Sanker ’09: 17:41
