5 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tree falls in forest SEE PAGE 2

It was a graveyard smash. According to local park rangers, Mooresville brown bear Franky turned the idiomatic world on its
head by shitting in the Port-A-John of a local park instead of the woods.

Skanky nurse and malpracticing doctor make great student views CatCard money as monopoly money SEE PAGE 7

Mooresville Brown Bear Franky, minutes after revolutionizing the history of slang.

Student as fool SEE PAGE 5

According to recent scientific findings, beauty is a quantifiable and genetic trait, much like height, vertical leaping ability, or wingspan.
“That ‘eye of the beholder’ malarkey is pure Romantic blasphemy,” genetic researcher Mark Anselmo said. “Keats obviously never took Biology.”
An offspring’s beauty is determined by certain chromosome combinations, though scientists are not yet sure which chromosomes contain the beauty
gene. Studies have shown that the beauty gene, with slight mutation, can form the Nice-to-look-at-but-you-wouldn’t-want-to-marry-her gene, as happened with Paris
Hilton. “The fact of the matter,” Anselmo said, “is that beauty is a constant. Every straight man is going to
behold Natalie Portman’s backside in the exact same way.”

“Can I help you?” asks student confused by Trick-or-Treaters on hall SEE PAGE 8

THE YOWL Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Samuel Belkins ’10 reached a boiling point Thursday night while dining out with his parents. “Yeah, us classics majors already
aren’t taken seriously on this campus, and then my dad has to go and make some lame joke about the
‘roman’ lettuce in my salad, and how that somehow relates to Julius Caesar and therefore me because I’m a classics
major...” Belkins fumed. His father, Edward Belkins, was not available for questioning. Samuel’s mother, Gina Belkins, joked, “It was just
too easy. The salad was just so basic and plain. One might even say it was a classic. Hahahahaha. I’m
a pretty funny mom, aren’t I?” Samuel Belkins was not amused. The sophomore appeared to be assuming the role of
dictator of the family dinner as he embarked on a verbal crusade, noting every reason why his salad had nothing
to do with Caesar, the Gallic Campaign, or Roman cuisine. “NO ONE SHOULD EVER COMPARE ONE OF THE SINGLE MOST
INFLUENTIAL LEADERS IN THE WORLD TO SOMETHING THAT CAN BE GROWN IN YOUR BACKYARD AND THEN DOUSED WITH WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
AND PARMESAN CHEESE!!” Belkins yelled. He then continued complaining about how, contrary to popular belief, the triumvirate is not represented
through the salad’s triple alliance of croutons, olive oil, and black pepper. After his father argued that the tableside preparation
of the Caesar salad was analogous to Julius Caesar’s transformation of the Roman Republic into the Roman Empire, Samuel began
to cry. “It made me empathize with Caesar even more in the moments right before he was assassinated. I felt
his pain. The optimates known as ‘mother’ and ‘father’ will be conquered in the near future. This is just a
Caesar

Note: The Yowl! is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

Park rangers reported the bowel movement was clean and definitely not human, claiming that Franky had used toilet paper but
left the seat up. The gesture has already made an impact beyond the Mooresville community. Davidson Professor of Linguistics Gotlieb
Kranklstein explained the significance of the event for the English language. “Now every time someone asks, ‘Well does a bear
shit in the woods?’ he will have to qualify his question by admitting that, anomalous or not, in late October
of 2007, a bear actually did not shit in the woods.” “People will have to resort to the less visceral,
much blander, ‘Is the Pope Catholic?’ perhaps precipitating the downfall of the rhetorical question.”Salad, not Rex. Please tell me someone
will understand that reference.” Samuel Belkins then reordered a house salad and wept quietly to himself.

UBERTAS DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER
October 31, 2007

Bear Shits in Port-A-John

Real Baptism by Fire Unsettles Church Goers

Clergy, laity, and congregants all reacted with equal horror when they beheld the new rector of St. Paul’s Episcopal Church
in Cornelius, Ed Pusey, attempt to baptize an infant with fire. “He mumbled some Latin and has some new ideas
about baptismal regeneration, then held a flame thrower to my son’s hair, which wasn’t growing in all that well to
start with,” father of the infant Bob Tait said. “The man needs to be incarcerated.”

“He’s a strict literalist, you know,” long-time clergyman Robert Archibald said, “very much believing that Christ is incarnate in the
wafers and wine and all that.” The Reverend Pusey is awaiting trial by the diocese of the Mooreville episcopate. The
infant, Timothy, was unharmed, though in his first words he revoked his Anglican faith and announced himself an agnostic.

Students Not Allowed to Discuss Study

Professor of Psychology Randall Fitzfiggins’s class, “Student Behavioral Psychology,” is conducting a lab experiment using Davidson students as test subjects
this semester. Fitzfiggins's class asked fellow students to participate in behavioral studies and complete surveys describing their experiences. These students
have also signed forms declaring that they would not discuss the study with anyone else on campus.

Assistant Dean of Students Robert Korman has raised some questions about the study's non-discussion policy. “While we assume that Davidson
professors adhere to a certain standard, we ask what kinds of situations we set them in during the lab, and
the Dean's Office would much rather have some form of oversight, if only for liability purposes,” Korman said.

Fitzfiggins, however, remained adamant about the policy. “It is the only way we can guarantee uncontaminated results,” he said. “Davidson
is a small community, and the larger our study group is, the more accurate our data will be, so we
try to ensure as little discussion about the lab as possible.”

When asked questions about when the study would be complete, Fitzfiggins refused to answer on the grounds that doing so
would risk potential contamination of the results. Daniel Ward '09 also declined to comment on his experience as a participant
in the study. “While Professor Fitzfiggins didn't have the class sign any non-disclosure agreements, he made it clear that discussing
the study would make them unsuitable test subjects,” Ward said.

Marsha Cogburn '10 was one participant in the study. When asked about her experience, she said, “I'm sorry, I'm not
supposed to discuss it.” Fitzfiggins refused to answer what the study involved or whom the study had used as test
subjects. When asked how they felt about the non-discussion policy, Cogburn, Ward, and Quentin Becker '09 all answered again that
they were not allowed to discuss it. The study has yet to be titled.

Clever Student Inserts “Not!” on Union Free Speech Board

Renowned sophomore ne’er-do-well Charleston Bartholomew was recently caught in the act of inserting the exclamation “not!” after a student’s manifesto
on the Union Free Speech Board. That student, Lucy Flores '09, said she was downright peeved about the incident. Regardless
of your stance on freedom of speech, you have to admit this guy sucks.

The Honor Council is undecided about whether to uphold Bartholomew’s freedom of speech, to prosecute Bartholomew for infringing upon Flores’s
freedom of speech, to prosecute Flores for trying to impede Bartholomew’s freedom of speech, or to blow the whole thing
off. Everyone, however, is in agreement that Bartholomew is a tremendous smartass.
