2 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2007

Laundry machines at the sophomore apartments were removed this semester.

Lula Bell Houston Laundry expands and improves, some student dissatisfaction remains

By JORDAN WALL
Staff Writer

Students have returned to a slew of changes at Davidson, large and small. A new president is at the college’s
helm, growth and development continues in the town, and beginning this fall, even the way students do their laundry will
be different. The Lula Bell Houston Laundry is freshly expanded to incorporate 33 new dryers and 36 new washers for
student use. The new facility is located in the renovated back area of the College laundry service. It consolidates into
a single location the washers and dryers that were formerly dispersed around campus, at Watts, Sentelle, and the “down-the-hill” sophomore
apartments.

Among the most notable improvements, the facility sports an online service where students can check which washers and dryers are
available and how many minutes remain on a particular wash cycle. Some students have been upset by the removal of
the facilities, especially from the sophomore apartments, to the “up-the-hill” location. Residents of Akers and Knox have expressed unhappiness with
the new arrangement. At a Student Government Association (SGA) meeting, Senator Allison Ruhe voiced her dissatisfaction with the removal of
the washers, saying that life down the hill is already difficult and that toting one’s laundry up the hill added
insult to injury.

Patty Perillo, the new Associate Dean of Students and Director of RLO, was at the meeting to explain and defend
the removal of the machines. Perillo said that RLO’s decision to remove the washers and dryers from Akers, Knox, Sentelle,
and Watts was due to a myriad of issues: the build-up of clothes causing a problem for the cleaning staff,
machine malfunctions, and the questioned effectiveness of having one washer and dryer per 50 residents in Akers and Knox. Assistant
Dean of Academic Administration and former Director of RLO Leslie Marsicano added her support for the new laundry set-up. “Unfortunately,
there was no space for additional washers and dryers [in Akers and Knox],” Marsicano said.

The SGA RLO Advisory Committee has suggested other possibilities for those areas in Akers, Knox, Sentelle, and Watts that formerly
housed washing and drying machines. According to Marsicano, such developments could involve “additional amenities in residence halls, including kitchens, bike
storage, fitness equipment, and additional storage for students’ personal items, like luggage or sports equipment, that were not [previously] being
offered.”

Davidson moves up in rankings

U.S. News and World Reports’ latest college rankings came out in mid-August with Davidson College being ranked ninth in the
nation in the division of liberal arts colleges. U.S. News and World Reports evaluates on categories such as peer assessment
scores, average freshman retention rate, actual graduate rate, selectivity rank, the percentage of freshmen in the top 10 percent of
their high school graduating class, alumni giving rate, and SAT or ACT scores. Williams College in Massachusetts was ranked first
in Davidson’s division, with an overall score of 100. Amherst College placed second, and Swarthmore College and Wellesley College occupied
the next two places. Davidson fell behind Pomona College and Bowdoin College who tied for seventh place. Davidson’s ninth place
ranking represents an improvement over 2007 U.S. News and World Reports’ rankings, when the college was placed 10th. Davidson remains
the only North Carolina school ranked among “Top Liberal Arts Colleges.”

Pass/Fail Option Changed

By HALLEY AELION
Staff Writer

Last year Davidson changed the pass/fail option for students entering as first-year students during and after August 2007. New regulations
specify that no student may take more than one pass or fail course per semester. Students can now choose to
use the pass/fail option retroactively, picking three classes at the end of their senior year that they would like to
have regarded as pass/fails. Original rules stipulated that students “may take a maximum of six courses on a pass/fail basis
over four years.” Previously, first-year students and sophomores were allowed to elect no more than one pass or fail course
per academic year, with juniors and sophomores being allowed to elect no more than one pass or fail course per
semester. Other regulations remain unchanged: a pass is still equivalent to a grade of C- or higher and a course
taken on a pass or fail basis will be counted to fulfill all requirements except those falling in majors, minors,
or concentrations.

Diversity, from page 1

a “deep-seated understanding of the Davidson community.” Shandley added that Ross won the William H. Rehnquist Award during his time
on the North Carolina State Superior Court. When Ross stood in front of the U.S. Supreme Court to accept the
award and talk about any subject he wished, he spoke of the disparities in sentencing along racial lines in the
criminal justice system in North Carolina. Chris Burton ’08, president of the Student Government Association (SGA) called Ross’ presence at
Davidson a “new chapter” for the college. “A greater sense of community” can be accomplished by students through greater participation
in SGA, he said. Burton also believes that students’ interactions are “microcosms” of greater American and human issues. “We mustmove
into a greater sense of who we are,” Burton said. Diversity “is what Davidson College ought to be. What this
nation ought to be,” Shandley said, adding that the student body has increased to 15 percent non-Caucasian students and that
Davidson students are representative of 47 states and 37 countries.

Professor Nancy Fairley of the Anthropology Department also shared her experiences as a black female faculty member. When she was
first asked to teach at Davidson, Fairley said, “I was delighted to move back to my home state.” But the
atmosphere was not quite what she had expected. “I was stunned at the lack of diversity in the faculty, student
body, staff, and administration,” she continued. Yet, “four-fifths of the cleaning staff and maintenance staff was part of the same
African American descent as myself.”

“It was not easy for me to come tonight,” Fairley said, “because it’s emotional to me.” She attributes her success
to the support of the African American community both in and around campus, as well as the support of the
white faculty, administration, and students. “We’ve made great strides in increasing ethnic diversity,” Fairley said, “but it must continue. If
we want to bring minority students to campus, we have to first bring diverse faculty.”

“Numbers are not enough,” Fairley said. “We must embrace ideas brought in by outsiders and retain what is best for
the Davidson education.” Ross agrees with Fairley’s position on diversity at Davidson. “We must embrace ideas brought in by outsiders
and retain what is best for the Davidson education.” --Nancy Fairley, Professor of Anthropology

“Ideally, all of us should feel comfortable with ourselves and strive to be comfortable with others and how they are,”
he said. “The community must aggressively embrace diversity and differences.” On his daily walk early Tuesday morning, he told his
audience, he looked into a building on campus and saw a Confederate flag. He believes that this item offends some
people, but he also believes that the individual who hung the flag did not mean to hurt anyone. Yet, we
must understand the implications of our actions. “We need to speak for the common good,” Ross said, “and truly listen
to another’s stories and values.”

Belk, from page 1

Professional sports to the city. His leadership does not stop there, however. Belk also served as an elder in the
Presbyterian Church and was a national leader in the Boy Scouts of America. In light of his accomplishments, the Charlotte
World Affairs Council named him a Charlotte World Citizen in 1997.

Even while serving in all of these capacities, Belk’s heart was never far from his alma mater. From 1989 until
1995, Belk served as the honorary chair of the College’s first major fundraising campaign, which garnered $163 million. He also
served the College for 30 years as a Trustee, and, even after he left the Board, he continued to support
students through the John Montgomery Belk scholarship. The scholarship is a living legacy for Belk. Starting with one student in
the year of its inception, the scholarship has grown to cover four years of tuition, fees, room, and board plus
two $3,000 summer stipends for 10 students in each class. In 2000, Belk gave the largest single gift from an
individual in College history to endow the scholarship program. In addition to the 38 current scholars, 32 Belk Scholarship alumni
continue Belk’s legacy of excellence.

In light of his contributions, Davidson presented him with the Distinguished Alumnus Award in 1973 and inducted him into the
Athletic Hall of Fame in 1997. As expected from a man for whom family always played a major role, Belk’s
connection to Davidson is a long-standing familial tradition. Belk family members have attended Davidson since 1843, and their influence saturates
the campus. Belk and Irwin dorms bear the names of John Belk’s parents, William Henry and Mary Irwin Belk, and
the Visual Arts Center is named after his late brother Tom Belk ’46 and Tom’s wife Katherine Belk-Cook. Belk-Cook recently
helped inaugurate the campus sculpture program, and their daughter, Katie Belk Morris, serves as a College Trustee. Another Belk brother,
Irwin ’45, whose name graces the track, commissioned the largest wildcat statue in the world, which now sits in front
of Baker Sports Complex. Carol Grotnes Belk Turf Field, named after Irwin Belk’s wife, serves as the home field to
women’s lacrosse and field hockey. The life-size statues of a field hockey player and a lacrosse player that sit in
front of the field are also gifts from Irwin Belk.

John Belk’s wife and daughter, Claudia Watkins Belk and Mary Claudia Belk Pilon, will continue his work with the Belk
Scholarship. Both currently serve and will continue to serve on the Belk Scholarship Board of Advisers. Belk’s generosity toward and
commitment to Davidson has left an indelible mark on both the College and its students.

“It’s almost unfathomable to think of how much trust Mr. Belk put in us,” Belk Scholar Kelsey Formost ’09 said.
“To give another human being the gift of a college education and then trust that that individual won’t take it
for granted takes enormous faith, and a generous heart.” The College extends its condolences to the Belk family and thanks
them for sharing John Belk with us.
