3 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson students studying in Peru witnessed the destruction of an 8.0 quake.

Students in Peru observe aftermath of earthquake

Krista Timeus ’09 is a Davidson student who was studying abroad in Peru at the time of the earthquake, 8.0 on the Richter Scale, that wreaked massive destruction a few weeks ago. The natural disaster killed hundreds of people and destroyed over 85,000 homes. Now, aid and rescue workers from all over the world rush to help the survivors. The following are Timeus' first-hand observations regarding the severity and repercussions of the quake. Timeus sent this article from Peru, where she will finish out her abroad experience.

By Krista TIMEUS
Guest Contributor

After helping to prune the grape vines at the vast vineyard in La Caravedo and walking through the centuries-old distillery, it is hard to imagine that it must now be rebuilt almost from scratch after the earthquake on Aug. 15. La Caravedo is the vineyard where the charismatic and hospitable Rodrigo Peschiera Mifflin produces the only organic Pisco (Peru’s alcoholic beverage of choice) in the world, having the grapes crushed by foot to extract the juice and then distilling it in a stone structure that has stood since the time of the Inca. Rodrigo’s family is okay, but unlike him, 100,000 people have lost their homes, more than 500 are dead and double that amount are wounded.

Only a week before the earthquake, the students in the Davidson in Peru Program traveled along the 95 miles of land south of Lima, visiting the towns of Chincha, Pisco, Ica, and Nazca. Amongst our many observations is the fact that this is a thriving, economically prosperous, and diverse region. We drove past asparagus plantations, walked through a crowded fish market, enjoyed drinks at Pisco and wine distilleries, such as La Caravedo, and visited archeological sites and natural reserves. Nonetheless, we also noticed that the majority of the citizens there are poor Peruvians living in houses made of the cheap and brittle building material, adobe, in settlements denominated pueblos jóvenes, a euphemism for a shantytown. It is sad for us to know that after Aug. 15 only a few buildings remain relatively intact.

The challenges that lie ahead for the government are repairing the roads, especially the Pan-American highway that connects the eastern coast, fully reinstating telecommunications and electricity, and helping families remake their homes and businesses. As the government initiates and implements projects though, we see evidence of some of Peru’s most prominent political and economic problems, among which are a deficient infrastructure, lack of resources for the affected, and inefficient administrative practices to get the scarce resources to the victims. The consequences of not dealing with these issues promptly are devastating: farmers in the region are losing around $50,000 a day worth of product that they cannot transport to ports or markets, and tourism to the coast has been significantly curtailed.

Thinking about these issues, I am reminded of our conversation in Lima with Beatriz Boza, the executive director of a “government watchdog” organization dedicated to developing a civil society in Peru. One of her goals is empowering mayors with more responsibility and autonomy over their municipalities, thus reducing the bureaucratic gap between planning and implementing local policy. Her ideas are applicable now, in the short and long term reconstruction of the coastal economy, because essential in the process is allowing municipal and regional governments to act without having to first seek approval from the central government in Lima, a lengthy and costly operation. Delegating responsibility to the region’s mayors will not only save time and money that would otherwise be spent on administrative tasks, but will also hold these local governments more accessible and accountable to their constituencies. Although President Alan Garcia has been criticized for not delegating more power, congress already passed a bill that enables mayors to readjust their annual budgets.

The task ahead seems daunting, but if we have learned anything about Peruvians these past few weeks, it is that they are extremely hard-working, creative, and generous people. Thousands are donating money, clothes, and food supplies to the victims to reach the goal of rehabilitating the region in a year’s time.The citizens are eager to build stronger hospitals, schools, and homes than before. There is even talk about building a larger airport in Ica to facilitate export in the future. Furthermore, the population can learn valuable lessons ranging from improving governmental practices to building a more participative and coherent citizenry. There is no doubt that people such as Rodrigo from La Caravedo are ready to bring their businesses back to their prime state, just as there is no doubt in us that they are more than capable of doing so.

SOURCES: Economist.com, Elcomercio.com.pe

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 2007

SGA to increase student involvement on campus
By Katie GILLESPIE
Staff Writer

At the first meeting of the Student Government Association (SGA) last Thursday, President Chris Burton ’08 and Vice President Davis Greene ’09 proposed ideas to ensure that SGA addresses real problems and concerns of the student body.

“We as a student body have a wonderful opportunity to take ourselves to another level of consciousness on the Davidson campus,” Burton said. “It’s not about the amount of things we do but the quality of things we do.”

Burton introduced the Real Talk Project, through which he intends to bring together the grassroots initiatives on campus in order to engage students in a community conversation on issues such as diversity in the faculty, the alcohol policy, and sexual misconduct standards.

Greene asked senators to list issues of personal concern to themselves on a sheet of paper. “The idea is that SGA should handle those issues,” Greene said. “The idea is that we have an issue that’s bigger than something small that we talk about as a community.”

SGA plans to set up a table at the Union or Commons at which students can choose issues that they would like to discuss from a ballot. Articles in The Davidsonian, posters, Facebook groups, and WALT radio shows will raise awareness about the issue, and SGA will discuss it in its meetings for a month.

Burton believes that the Real Talk Project will “shape what the strategic plan for this college is” by reaching out to faculty, staff, alumni, trustees, and the Davidson community. “I sincerely believe that students want to make a change on some level,” Burton said.

Burton also proposed that SGA reach out to the student body by holding its meeting in the Union Atrium on the last Thursday of every month. “It’s going to take more than just holding these meetings here and hoping that they’re going to show up,” Burton said.

Senators had mixed reactions to the proposal. Nafisa Isa ’08 suggested holding the meetings in the Sprinkle Room in the Union instead. According to Burton, however, holding the meetings in the Atrium would be symbolic, allowing SGA to be “in the midst of the people.”

Other senators had different ideas for increasing student involvement in SGA. Jessica Givens ’10 asked that the SGA discuss more engaging topics that “people will hear and see and think that involves me.” Jordan Wall ’10 proposed that SGA hold an open forum for students. Christie Mason ’10 suggested that SGA set up a sound system during its potential meetings in the Union so that “SGA’s voice resonates a little louder on campus.”

New Director of Residence Life Patty Perillo also spoke at the meeting, asking senators for advice on what to do with the former laundry facilities in Akers, Knox, Sentelle, and Watts. “It’s not about the amount of things we do but the quality of things we do.” --Chris Burton ’08, SGA President

These facilities used to contain washers and dryers, but the Residence Life Office (RLO) removed them after opening the new state-of-the-art student laundry facility at the back of the Lula Bell Houston Laundry. Ideas for filling these now empty spaces include space for bike racks, vending machines, study spaces, and exercise equipment. Allison Ruhe ’10 asked that RLO put the washers and dryers back into at least one of the sophomore apartments because it is difficult for students in these dorms to carry their laundry up the hill.

SGA also announced that elections for first-year students will be held on Monday, Sept. 17. Several first-year students interested in running were present at Thursday’s meeting.