DAVIDSON COLLEGE

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2007

VOLUME 99, NUMBER 4

First Class
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC

Crowds of protesters, including high-profile figures like the Reverend Jesse Jackson and the Reverend Al Sharpton, gathered in Jena, Louisiana,
last week.

Journey to Jena: showing support

By JORDAN WALL AND OMAR PICKETT
Staff Writers

When news of the Jena, Louisiana story concerning the arrest of several African-American men reached Davidson’s campus, members of the
community organized.

Last week the Black Student Coalition (BSC), in conjunction with the Student Government Association (SGA) and several other supporters, structured
a trip of 46 students to Jena, Louisiana to protest the holding and trial of Mychal Bell, Robert Bailey Jr.,
Carwin Jones, Bryant Purvis, and Theo Shaw.

On the inside...

News

The 12-hour bus ride began last Wednesday when students and staff departed at 6 p.m. from Baker.

President Tom Ross, who briefly boarded the bus and addressed the group, said, “I’m proud of you and what you’re
committing to,” and expressed his hope that it would be a safe, enlightening trip.

The group was of mixed backgrounds with diverse ethnicities, sexes, ages, and interests.

Area Coordinator Sabrina Brown went on the trip, saying “If students were gonna do it I was gonna be behind
it 100 percent.”

During the trip, Darrell Scott ’10, and Chris Burton ’08, SGA President, passed out information concerning the cases of the
Jena Six.

Scott, who also led the BSC’s Jena Six discussion the week before, discussed the importance of the trip, stating that
the movement “was about political pressure. The whole reason that Mychal Bell’s conviction was thrown out is because of political
pressure.”

See Journey, page 2

Affordable housing panel, page 4

Real Talk, page 3

Campus transportation options extend, page 5

Arts

Get thrifty in Charlotte, page 6

Meet Marlon, page 7

Perspectives

Stepping up, page 8

An art student’s take on sculpture, page 8

Sports

Donovan McNabb?, page 10

Southern sports to seek out, page 10

And don’t forget to check out the online edition...

The women’s soccer team captured

Cat Cupps recalled from bookstore

By JORDAN WALL
Staff Writer

The College Bookstore advertises Cat Cupps as a smart and efficient buy; students not only reduce the trash around campus,
they also receive discounts on beverages in the Union Cafe and have the opportunities to take drinks out of Commons.

A few weeks ago, the sale of Cat Cupps in the bookstore ceased when students discovered a warning label, placed
on the bottom of their cups, stating that “this product contains chemicals known to the State of California to cause
cancer and/or birth defects or other reproductive harm.”

Sophomore Class President Jessica Givens ’10 was one of the first students to return her Cat Cupp and voice her
dissatisfaction to SGA.

“I was shocked and surprised [when] I got a call from a friend to look at the bottom of my
cup,” Givens said. “My first reaction was to return it immediately.”

The bookstore staff had just discovered the warning label, having received no notification of its presence from the producer, when
Givens returned her cup.

The store pulled the remaining products off the shelf and issued full refunds to students.

Shocked by the discovery of the label, College Bookstore Manager Gwen Gardner said, “We think of [Davidson students] as our
kids.”

The possibility of any potentially harmful product being sold to students both concerned and angered Gardner, who said, “We’re here
to give you kids a good experience,” and a situation like this “affects our relationship to the students.”

Gardner and her associate Richard Terry looked into the matter and discovered that the silk-screened logo on the cups was
the cause of the label.

Proposition 65 of the State of California, passed in 1986, requires any producer of a product containing a chemical from
a list of 780 to place the label on said product.

Gardner and Terry also found that the product’s producer, Nazbar, claims that all materials used in the cup meet the
requirements of the FDA and the State of North Carolina guidelines for safety.

Gardner states that the bookstore still understands that “[students] may not feel safe continuing to use them, regardless of the
information provided,” so the store will continue to issue full refunds.

See Cupps, page 3

Women’s soccer dominates tournament

By ZACHARY ZIMMERMAN AND WILL BRYAN
Staff Writer and Sports Editor

Following its second victory of the season two weeks ago against Mercer, the women’s soccer team swept an SEC field
at the College of Charleston tournament last weekend. The Wildcats captured one of their biggest victories in recent years when
they knocked off Vanderbilt last Friday in the tournament’s first round. Thoroughly beating regionally-ranked LSU on Sunday seemed to be
more of a faint hope than anything else. But after 90 minutes and three Wildcat goals against no Tiger scores,
hope turned into reality, and the Wildcats were crowned tournament victors and adjunct SEC champions.

On Friday, the Lady Cats opened up the tournament against SEC power Vanderbilt. The game was scoreless for most of
the first half, but Vanderbilt’s aggressive, physical play kept the Wildcats on their heels. At the 38-minute mark, Vanderbilt forward
Hannah Gonzales put the Commodores up 1-0 before the end of the first half. Gonzales kicked a ball off a
free kick 18 yards out into the top left corner of the net.

See Victory, page 11
