THE DAVIDSONIAN

Meet Davidson’s Town Board candidates

In addition to debate by mayoral candidates, Thursday’s forum also featured debate by eight Town Board candidates. Candidates are competing for five spots. The candidates disagreed less than one might expect. They all, for example, supported the light rail system (even if some insisted that it not end in Davidson) and a school bond package, worth some $516 million dollars, to improve area schools. Below readers may find some background information on the candidates and a few highlights from the forum.

Rodney Graham, a developer and homebuilder, has lived in Davidson since 2005. He stresses environmentalism and believes that his outsider’s perspective makes him a unique fit for the Town Board. At the forum, Graham stressed the need for racial diversity, pledged to support the town’s adoption of the cable system, even if he disagrees with the decision, and said that he wished the Soda Shop accepted credit cards.

A land-planner who has served on many town committees, Jenest would “like to give back.” Jenest believes in the town’s potential. “What we need in Davidson is we need more of it,” Jenest said. Jenest would also like to see a requirement mandating that buildings on Main Street have commercial first floors. He stressed the importance of this year’s elections because in Davidson “over the last 12 years we haven’t seen a lot of change in leadership.”

Bill Johnson directed Ada Jenkins for six years after working for about 30 years in hospital management. Initially against the cable system, Johnson now sees the project as viable. Having lived and worked in West Davidson, Johnson has perspective regarding the issues facing that community. In addition, he “would like to see Davidson College have a stronger role in downtown.”

Lenny McAllister, a Davidson alumnus, believes that he represents the area’s young professionals. His opening statement included an anecdote about a drug deal in Davidson and his repeated conviction that “we can and must do better.” Like Johnson, McAllister wants to see the College play a greater role in the town, suggesting that the town keep its stores open longer on nights when the men’s basketball team plays.

Laurie Venzon is a mother of two who recently retired after working for 21 years at Bank of America. Venzon served on the Davidson Planning Board. She called gentrification “a huge issue that we’re facing” and said that the town might benefit from more bike racks.

Webster, a U.S. Navy veteran, has lived on the Davidson Planning Board from 2000-2004 and is now an incumbent Town Board commissioner. His wife Marcia is the director of the Davidson Housing Coalition. Webster believes that the town must continue to monitor growth and that the traffic problems might be resolved through the transit system and by exchanging residential development for commercial development in order to decrease the number of car trips.

At the forum, Williams called gentrification “an extremely complex economic issue. Gentrification often happens to the communities that are most fragile.” For this reason, Williams implied, the West Davidson Stakeholder Committee formed. Like Webster, Williams also supports the cable system and believes that the system will eventually generate money for the town. She also supports requiring buildings on Main Street to have a commercial first level.

Again this year, funds from the George L. Abernethy Endowment will be available to support worthy initiatives by current first-year, sophomore, or junior students. [It is possible for us to fund a senior who expects to complete all research work prior to graduation.] Individual awards fall into one of the following categories:
1. Independent student research, either in the US or abroad.
2. Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year or the summer.
3. Collaborative research by students and faculty. The student must have a clearly defined independent role in the research.

At the request of the donor, applications are limited to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences. For your information, last year the Abernethy Endowment supported projects with grants up to $3,300; the average award was about $1,700. Application forms are available in the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283). Completed application forms are due back in this office before 5:00 p.m. on Friday, November 9, 2007. The announcement of awards should occur during the exam period of the fall semester. Please help us inform students of this exciting opportunity.Opportunity. 
Clark G. Ross
Dean of Faculty

NEWS
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2007

SGA considers more eco-friendly approach
By NINA MACE
Staff Writer

At its Oct. 18 meeting, the Student Government Association (SGA) senators discussed the possibility of students running for SGA offices while abroad. Mordecai Scott ’10 and A.J. Hergenroeder ’08 presented a resolution that would allow students to run while abroad or on leave. If necessary, an elected student’s absences would be excused until they return to campus. Some senators questioned the motion, lobbying to exempt presidential and vice-presidential candidates from the policy. The senators voted on an amendment to add this exception, and the amendment passed. The resolution itself, however, did not pass and was tabled for revision and presentation again at a later meeting.

SGA Vice-President Davis Greene ’09 presented updates on the Real Talk project, which this month centers on environmental awareness. In honor of the forum’s theme, banners will be used instead of fliers to advertise the event. A forum will be held Wednesday at 7 p.m., and banners will be made instead of fliers, thereby reducing waste. SGA will also work with the Environmental Action Committee (EAC) and Patterson Court Council (PCC) to minimize waste. They hope to put recycling bins on Patterson Court, and the Eco Co-op is interested in providing educational opportunities. Water conservation was in particular a focal point. Greene asked for suggestions from senators. Burton mentioned the importance of water conservation during the drought and senators discussed holding contests, within Patterson Court organizations for example, to reduce water use. “I want you all to share this information with your constituency—directly,” Burton said.

Senators also discussed how best to present facts to students without creating waste. Ideas mentioned included e-mails to students, chalk signs, or reusing paper to make signs like the EAC has done in the past.

In other news, the Activities Tax Council (ATC) budget for the fall was presented and approved.

“I want us to have more cohesion as a group. We can really make Real Talk happen, or we’ve just successfully created a pretty unicorn.”
—Chris Burton ’08, President of SGA

Due to schedule conflicts preventing one retreat for everyone, Burton announced plans for two mini-retreats for senators. He also encouraged senators to sign up for committees, hoping to de-centralize the work. Also, Burton presented plans for six groups of senators to meet with each other to encourage bonding among senators. “I want us to have more cohesion as a group,” Burton said. “We can really make Real Talk happen, or we’ve just successfully created a pretty unicorn. ‘Real Talk’s coming, Real Talk’s coming,’ but it never manifests itself. If we don’t take this seriously, no one else will take this as a serious matter.”

Ross inauguration Oct. 27
SUMMERLEE WALTER
Editor-in-Chief

This weekend, Davidson College will officially welcome President Tom Ross ’72 and his wife, Susan, to Davidson with Southern cuisine, bluegrass, and seniors marching in their caps and gowns for the first time. The festivities kick off on Thursday when the Rosses join students for the Southern Supper in Commons from 5-7 p.m. Steep Canyon Rangers, a bluegrass band, will provide the entertainment. According to Ross, arranging for the band, which features a family friend of his, was his only contribution to planning the weekend. The Union cafe will be closed from 6-8 p.m., and eating houses and fraternities will not serve dinner. All students are encouraged to attend. The meal is free.

The festivities continue during Family Weekend. On Saturday morning, Ross will officially become Davidson’s 17th president at the Presidential Inauguration and Fall Convocation. The ceremony will take place on the lawn where commencement is held. Ninety colleges and universities will send representatives to participate in the inauguration. Several of these representatives are parents of current Davidson seniors. These parents are invited to march with the over 100 seniors who have agreed to wear their cap and gown and participate in the procession. As is the tradition, many other colleges and universities have sent greetings that are posted on the bulletin boards outside of the President’s office. Once Ross is inaugurated, his first duty will be to present awards to students and faculty members who have demonstrated excellence in learning, teaching, and serving. The college expects about 3,500 people to attend. A luncheon will follow the ceremony.