6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2008

New Disc Golf Course Diversifies Recreation on Campus

By CARA WOODROOF
Staff Writer

Do you find yourself bored and stuck in a rut, doing the same activities like bike riding or softball? Are you interested in learning a unique skill? If you are, and don’t mind taking a walk through the beautiful woods on campus, disc golf easily can give you the best of both worlds.

Disc golf is easy to learn because the rules are very similar to those of regular golf. You first need to get a sheet of paper with a map of the course, a score chart, and rules at the Davidson Outdoors (DO) office. You can rent a set of three discs for a day for $2, which includes a driver, a midrange, and a putter. Mike Goode, assistant director of DO, pointed out that the plant design on the center of the discs is poison ivy, serving as a warning for the poison ivy out on the course. However, he wasn’t sure the design on the discs effectively warned people about the ivy.

The course starts in the large field in the middle of Patterson Court and winds into the woods behind the sophomore apartments, extending alongside the baseball and field hockey fields. Golf tees are designated by square limestone signs in the ground. Each basket, or “hole,” is labeled with the appropriate number.

Fun and games aside, Goode asks that those who use the course take good care of it. In the past, people have carelessly torn down or destroyed signs designating different tees. Physical Plant repeatedly replaced the signs until it became clear that the course was not worth the trouble and expense. Even worse, DO student employees regularly find trash out on the course. As Goode pointed out, when people see trash on the course, they get the idea that it is okay to discard more. However, there is good news. Joe Harvey '09, a DO student employee, noticed that some unknown person is kindly picking up trash, putting it in a bag, and placing the bag...

Laureate Lectures

By CAROLINE WOOD
Arts & Living Editor

In continuation of Davidson’s dynamic spring series of literary lectures, begun by Edward Albee and Michael Chabon, Nobel Laureate Derek Walcott will lecture on campus on March 11. Walcott is the author of over twenty collections of poetry, including “Tiepolo’s Hound,” “Midsummer,” and “Sea Grapes.” A native of St. Lucia, Walcott has been hailed as the voice of the Caribbean people, and he continues to be a lasting presence in post-colonial literary theory.

Walcott’s works explore mythic constructions, Caribbean national identities, and social roles of the colonizer and colonized. He has also used his written works to explore the interaction between English and Caribbean patois. A professor of Creative Writing at Boston University, he received the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1992. “Dream on Monkey Mountain,” “Pantomime,” and “The Joker of Seville” are among the most celebrated of his many plays. He has been awarded the WH Smith Literary Award, The Arts Council of Wales International Writers Prize, and the Queen's Gold Medal for Poetry.

The lecture will take place in Tyler-Tallman Hall at...7:30 p.m.; tickets are free. Walcott will also take questions during two hour-long interactive sessions. The first, at 3 p.m., will focus on Walcott’s literary texts; the second, entitled Visualizing Walcott: Drama and Painting, will focus on theatrical effects at 4:15 p.m. To sign up for either session, email jashank@davidson.edu before Feb. 29.

Beside a trashcan on the course, DO and Physical Plant are thankful for the benevolence of this kind person. Goode also stated that even though the course is open to students, faculty, and staff of the college, it is very likely that unaffiliated people come on campus and use it, as Disc golf players like to try new courses. Disc golf fields are versatile, ranging from open fields to backwoods and trails. And as Goode humorously added, “People get way into this thing.”

The course was originally created a few years ago for a senior class event. INNOVA, a company that provides Disc golf supplies, initially sold Davidson the discs and designed the course. For the past two years, DO has been trying to place more durable signs on the course. For the time being, limestone from a renovated building on campus provides a possible solution. Physical Plant’s Charles Jolly contacted a stone cutting company. In addition, College Union Director William Brown garnered money, and Director of the Physical Plant David Holthouser made some of the limestone available. This year, Harvey has been installing limestone signs at each tee around the course. He finished the task last week.

The game of Disc golf dates back about a half-century. In 1954, the first “Frisbee match” was held at Dartmouth College. In 1976, Ed Headrick invented the chain-style Disc golf target and organized the Professional Disc Golf Association. By 2000, the number of permanent Disc golf courses in the United States exceeded 1,000. Currently, the sport continues to grow in the number of courses, tournaments, and players. Disc golf is an increasingly popular, fun sport for people of all ages, and the woodlands of the Davidson College campus provide an ideal place for the sport. Hopefully, Davidson will maintain its Disc golf course on campus for years to come, and provide anyone with the slightest interest the chance to try out the latest addition to the golf world.

By Clint Smith

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School
Best Lawyers in America ‘84—'07
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals
Adjunct professor of trial advocacy
Duke Law School
UNC Law School
Concentrating in Personal Injury
Other Areas of Practice: Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning, Litigation, Real Estate, Social Security Disability, Wills & Trusts

The McIntosh Law Firm
In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. University of Richmond
Commissioner for the Town of Davidson 83-85; 88-97
Town of Davidson Commercial and North End Corridor Plan ‘05
Mecklenburg County Real Estate Executive Council ‘03 to present.