12

Stephen Curry ’10 led the Wildcats with 27 points in their first victory against Emory on Friday.

By Patrick McArdle
Sports Editor

In front of home fans eager for the start of a highly anticipated season, the Wildcat basketball team did not stumble in its first contest of the year, crushing Division III Emory by a final score of 120-56. Shooting guard Stephen Curry ’10 led the team in scoring with 27 points, hitting 10 of 15 from the floor including five three-pointers. His scoring performance marks the 20th time that he has scored 20 or more points in a game. In addition to scoring, Curry tallied seven rebounds, seven assists, three blocks, and two steals within the friendly confines of Belk Arena.

Curry was not the only participant in the scoring frenzy. Point guard Jason Richards ’08, who scored 14 points and dished out 10 assists, collected his fourth career double-double. Boris Meno ’08, who scored 12 points and grabbed 13 rebounds, recorded his tenth double-double. Coming off the bench, Bryant Barr ’10 showed his sharp shooting abilities by scoring 17 with five three-pointers, and Brendan McKillop ’11 racked up 11 points in his first NCAA performance.

Davidson hit the hardwood running, scoring 16 unanswered points to open the game. The pace and speed promised by Coach McKillop throughout the preseason never relented. Davidson stuck close to the game plan, but certain moments showed the style and flash of this year’s team. Curry served an alley-oop to Meno in the early going that called forth the familiar “Bor-ris” chant from the crowd. Richards threw a perfect lob to Max Paulhus Gosselin ’09 for the slam in the second half to lengthen the lead to an obscene 84-34. A high-energy dunk by Dan Nelms ’10 closed the game with an exclamation point.

When the team wasn’t dunking the ball, Davidson played efficiently. The Wildcats ended the night shooting 50 percent overall and 41.3 percent from beyond the arc. More importantly, Davidson’s defense held Emory to a 30.6 percent shooting average and doubled Emory’s total rebounding 68-34.

“Last season is over.” - Point guard Jason Richards ’08

Wednesday will present a much greater challenge for the ’Cats as they face number-one ranked North Carolina in the Charlotte Bobcats’ Arena. North Carolina returns three of the starters from its NCAA Tournament team last year, including All-American Tyler Hansbrough. The last game the Wildcats played against the Tar Heels did not turn out well, with Davidson losing the contest 82-58 at Chapel Hill in January 2006. North Carolina leads the series overall 60-11. Davidson has beaten UNC in the past, however. Davidson’s last win against UNC came in 2002 when the Wildcats beat the Tar Heels at Chapel Hill. Only the future matters for the Wildcats. As Jason Richards put it, “This season will have to stand on its own legs. Last season is over.”

Football blows out Valpo in season finale, 44-6

BY WILL BRYAN
Sports Editor

The 18 seniors on the Davidson football team celebrated Senior Day in emphatic fashion with a 44-6 blowout victory over Valparaiso on Saturday afternoon in Richardson Stadium. The win clinched the ’Cats second consecutive winning season as they finished with a 6-4 record, including a 4-3 mark in the Pioneer Football League.

Justin Williams ’11 opened the scoring with a 21-yard touchdown run, the first of his three touchdowns in the game. Cody Elder ’08 converted the PAT to give the Wildcats an early 7-0 lead. The score remained 7-0 until midway through the second quarter when Williams added his second touchdown run of the game, this time from three yards out. The two teams traded punts on the ensuing possessions, but Davidson regained possession when linebacker Bud Crawford ’08 forced the Crusaders’ John Popper to fumble and defensive back Zach Long ’08 recovered the loose ball at the Valpo 29-yard line. On the very next play following the fumble recovery, quarterback Ryan Alexander ’08 connected with Williams on a 29-yard scoring pass to extend the lead to 21.

The Davidson defense forced Valparaiso into another punt on the Crusaders’ next series, giving the ’Cats offense one more chance to put points on the board before the half. Alexander andThe Wildcat offense made the most of the opportunity as the quarterback found classmate Ryan Hubbard ’08 in the end zone for a five-yard touchdown pass to up the home advantage to 28-0 with 38 seconds to go in the half. The Davidson defense continued to stifle the Valpo offense in the second half. On the first play from scrimmage in the second half, defensive back Patrick Fitzgerald ’08 intercepted Crusader quarterback Warren Arnold’s pass and returned it to the Valparaiso 15-yard line. Two plays later, Alexander hooked up with Hubbard for another touchdown on an 18-yard pass. Elder’s PAT was no good, leaving the lead at 34-0.

Player of the Week
Boris Meno ’08
Basketball
Hometown: Paris, France

Boris Meno ’08 secured the 10th double-double of his career with 12 points and a team-leading 13 rebounds against Emory in Friday’s 120-56 victory. The record-breaking senior duo had a huge afternoon as Alexander finished the game 20-27 for 381 yards and four touchdowns while Hubbard added eight catches for 189 yards and two scores. The 189 yards moved Hubbard ahead of Brett Dioguardi ’06 for first place on the all-time receiving list with 2,230 career receiving yards.

“Hubb has been an amazing teammate for four years. He continues to surprise me every week with the plays he makes. He has the unique combination of toughness, competitiveness, and talent. I think he makes me look better than I really am,” Alexander said of his favorite target.

The Crusaders’ offensive misery persisted on their next possession as Arnold was picked off again. Once again, the ’Cats offense converted on the turnover with a seven-play, 76-yard drive that resulted in a touchdown reception by tight end DJ Singelterry ’09 that extended the Valpo deficit to 41. The Wildcat defense maintained the shutout through the third quarter and entered the final period guarding an impressive 41-0 advantage. Davidson’s lead grew to 44-0 midway through the fourth when Elder made good on a 24-yard field goal try. On the ensuing drive, Jake Riedel finally got the visitors on the scoreboard with a seven-yard touchdown run, but it was too little too late for the Crusaders.

The ’Cats offensive line, led by George Zoeckler ’08 and Zach Jakob ’08, concluded their exceptional season with another strong performance as the offense yielded just one sack and managed 419 yards of total offense. The Davidson offensive line finished the season ranked third nationally, allowing a remarkable seven sacks on the year.

“The O-line has played well this year. I would attribute that success to cohesiveness as a unit and good communication. Alexander helps by getting rid of the ball quick, the wide receivers have been great at getting open, and the running backs have been great in pass protection all year. It has been a real team effort,” Zoeckler added.

The win marked the 400th victory in program history and improved Davidson’s all-time record against Valparaiso to 5-0.

Ryan Hubbard ’08 moved to first place on the all-time receiving list with his 189 yards on Saturday. The Wildcat victory secured back-to-back winning seasons for the first time since the 2001 and 2002 seasons. The seniors capped an impressive career with a victory that symbolized how far the program has come since the class’ 2-7 record during their freshman season.

“I could not have imagined a better way to finish my football career. It has been a pleasure to be a part of the Davidson football program,” Jakob proclaimed.

“I’m proud that this class has put Davidson in a position to contend for a conference championship. I know we don’t celebrate losses, but it’s clear that this program has closed the gap between us and the traditional powers of the conference. We’re ready to take the next step in the next couple of years and win a championship,” Alexander said.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Two alley-oops rock Belk Arena

In the first half of Friday’s men’s basketball game, Stephen Curry ’10 fed Boris Meno ’08 an alley-oop off the backboard on a fast break. In the second half, Jason Richards ’08 fed Max Paulhus Gosselin ’09 a perfect lob that Gosselin slammed down with two hands. These two plays defined the high-energy offense Davidson executed against Emory.