cb THE DAVIDSONIAN \ WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2007

Cats tie safety record in 24-21 victory against Drake

By MIKE FRONGELLO

The three safeties tied an NCAA Division I record (FCS or FBS). In 1988, Alabama State had three safeties against Albany State, marking the only other time three safeties have been forced in FCS history.

On a night when Davidson tied the NCAA Division I record for safeties forced in a game and Ryan Alexander '08 became the school’s all-time leader in total offense, the Wildcats won a thrilling 24-21 game on Saturday in Richardson Stadium.

The 'Cats offense had trouble holding on to the football and committed five turnovers including a fumble on the game’s opening possession. Luckily, Zach Long ’08 intercepted Cole Ingle’s pass on the Bulldog’s first possession. Both offenses failed to produce any points in the first quarter.

The second quarter began with a bizarre sequence. On Drake’s first drive the 'Cats defense forced a three-and-out that brought the punting unit on the field. The snap sailed over the punter’s head rolling 33 yards and out of the back of the end zone for a safety to give Davidson an early 2-0 lead.

On the ensuing possession, the Wildcat defense forced another fourth down. The Drake punting unit jogged back out onto the field for a second chance, but again the snap was high and this time the ball went 49 yards for another safety.

Now trailing 4-0 the Bulldog offense looked to put a drive together, but was again shut down by the Davidson defense. The punting unit returned to the field and for the third time in as many series the snap sailed out the back of the end-zone for another two points, allowing Davidson to take a 6-0 lead.

Davidson extended its lead to 9-0 when Cody Elder ’08 connected on a 37-yard field goal right before halftime. It marked the first time the 'Cats took a lead into the half since September 15 against Lenoir-Rhyne.

The Wildcat defense held strong early in the second half forcing a pair of successfully-snapped Drake punts. Midway through the third quarter the 'Cats found the end zone. Kenny Mantuo ’11 capped a five play, 51-yard drive with a one-yard touchdown run. The failed two-point conversion left Davidson’s lead at 15-0.

The Bulldogs put together a couple of scoring drives late in the third quarter to cut the 'Cats lead to 15-13 entering the final period. The Wildcats special teams caused more nightmares for Drake early in the fourth when Ben Sarver blocked Brandon Wubs’ punt and returned the ball to the two-yard line to set up an excellent scoring opportunity.

On the next play, Kirk Benedict ’10 plunged into the end zone for the touchdown. Elder’s extra point gave the home team a 21-13 advantage with 7:50 to go in regulation, but, once again, the Bulldogs responded.

Davidson’s defense forced a punt on the ensuing drive, but Mantuo fumbled on the first play of the series. Bulldog Tyler Marley recovered at the Davidson 27-yard line. Five plays later, Scott Phaydavong brought Drake within two points at 21-19 with a 17-yard touchdown.

Ryan Hubbard had a career-high 14 catches for 174 yards in Davidson’s 24-21 win over Drake.

Women’s soccer moves up in standings with 2-0 win

BY SAM DIAMANT

“After going 1-3 at the beginning of the season, we got together as a team and in small groups based on our positions to refocus as a group,” co-captain English said.

“We knew it wasn’t time to panic, but we also knew that we had to step it up and win some games. I think the team really came together after that,” English added.

In another successful week of SoCon action, the women’s soccer team defeated conference opponents College of Charleston and Western Carolina. With three regular season games remaining, the team now sits at 10-4-1 overall and 5-1-1 in-conference.

On Wednesday, the Wildcats ended College of Charleston’s four-game conference win-streak in a 2-1 overtimeTriumph at Vanderbilt to win the College of Charleston Tournament. Alumni Stadium. This season, underclassmen have generated much of the team’s offensive firepower. Suzanne Sittko ’10 notched her second goal of the season in the 20th minute of the contest; Nancy Haskell ’08 assisted on the play. But the Cougars answered less than 10 minutes later, and the match stayed tied through regulation. Sittko scored the golden-goal in the sixth minute of overtime, heading a ball near-post off a cross from Katharine Laco ’10.

Fellow sophomore forwards Blakely Low (four goals in 2007) and Sittko (three goals) round out the attack, along with another second-year player, midfielder Lauren Connor, who has five tallies on the year. On Sunday, Greg Ashton’s squad traveled to Western Carolina, where forward Kyri Bye-Nagel’s ’10 hat-trick and goalkeeper Bevin English’s ’08 seventh shutout of the season propelled the team to a 3-0 win.

Bye-Nagel got the Wildcats on the board early in Sunday’s game on a through-ball from Courtney Hart ’10 in the second minute. She scored her second of the afternoon on a pass from Lauren Connor ’10. “Blakely Low ran in front of the keeper, and I passed it into the back of the net,” Bye-Nagel said. Bye-Nagel completed the hat-trick in the 59th minute. The goal, Bye-Nagel said, came off a “great team buildup, which started in the midfield, had some great combinations between players, and then finally ended with a great cross by Suz Sittko which I got on the end of with my head.”

The team seems to be hitting its stride at the right point in the season. It has won nine of 12 contests. With the exception of an October 14 loss to UNC-Greensboro, the Wildcats have not lost since September 9. The remarkable stretch started after the team lost three of its four games to open the 2007 season.

“I think the fact that our leading scorers are all sophomores or freshmen really bodes well for the future of the team,” English noted. Amanda Flink ’11 has stepped up in a big way in her first collegiate season, with three scores on the year. “Amanda (Flink) is great in the air and a real threat on any set piece,” English said.

While younger players have provided most of the scoring, Davidson’s veteran upperclassmen have anchored a solid defensive effort. Defender Nancy Haskell ’08 has started all 15 contests, helping to create scoring opportunities with five assists. Chloe King ’09 has been another fixture on a defense that has helped English to her SoCon-leading seven shutouts. The senior goalkeeper now has 18 career shutouts and needs one more to break the Davidson record. English praises her defense. “The defenders are fighting for every ball and playing well together, and as a team, we are maintaining possession better, so we’ve been able to limit the number of chances our opponents get.”

Looking forward, the team is encouraged by its recent play, but realizes much work remains ahead. “All the games are going to be pretty tough... it’s important to take them one at a time,” Haskell said of upcoming matchups against Elon on Thursday, Chattanooga on Saturday, and Georgia Southern on Nov. 1. Bye-Nagel agreed. “If we continue to support each other and take each game at a time, we will continue to be successful. Also, we have been having fun recently, and that seems to help too.”

---

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Men’s soccer gets tie in final seconds

Bud Crawford '08
Football
Hometown: Dunwoody, Georgia

Crawford recorded a career-high three sacks, four tackles for loss, and a forced fumble to lead Davidson over Drake. Crawford spearheaded a defense that held Drake to -40 net yards rushing. Crawford was named PFL Player of the Week.

Trailing 1-0 to conference rival Appalachian State, the men’s soccer team made one last surge at goal in the final 15 seconds. The Wildcats gathered a long ball on the baseline and sent a ball into the box. The ball bounced off a Mountaineer hand, and Davidson was awarded a free kick. Charlie Rieter ‘10 hammered home the tying shot with 4.4 seconds remaining.