12 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2007

’Cats stumble on national stage against Duke

Despite being plagued by foul trouble, Stephen Curry ’10 led Davidson with 20 points against No. 7 Duke.

Women’s basketball opens at home with wins

BY SAM DIAMANT
Senior Staff Writer

Davidson women’s basketball continued what has been a successful start to the 2007-2008 season with a hard-fought 68-63 win over non-conference opponent Winthrop on Sunday afternoon in Belk Arena. With the win over the Eagles, Coach Annette Watts became the winningest coach in the program’s history with her 103rd regular-season victory in seven years at Davidson. Meanwhile, the young Wildcats improved to 4-2 on the season.

“The season is off to a good start,” guard Honna Housley ’08 said. She led four Wildcats in double figures with 13 points. “We will only continue to get better as the season goes on given that we are such a young team that will return some key players soon.”

Two important players, Katie Hamilton ’08 and Ashley Lax ’11, have been sidelined with injuries. Hamilton ranks sixth all-time in scoring as she goes into her final season. Lax showed she can make an immediate contribution in the first two games of the season, scoring 11 and eight points in each contest. With her team hampered by these injuries, Coach Watts hopes to develop a system around her young but talented team. Underclassmen have been featured, with Alex Thompson ’10 taking over the starting point-guard role and Julia Paquette ’10 also starting all six contests for the Wildcats. Kelsey Cary ’11 has provided a spark off the bench in her first collegiate season, averaging 10 points per game.

“We don’t necessarily have a go-to player on the team, so our scoring is usually spread out or a different player may step up each night,” Housley noted. Mercedes Robinson ’09 leads the balanced offensive attack with 12 points per game. Still, strong defense has been the focus for the Wildcats. “Much of our offense comes from our defensive intensity,” Housley commented. Defense has been a constant point of emphasis in practices since the beginning of Coach Watts’ tenure. The team has been working on defensive rotations, with the goal of building a fundamentally strong team. Thus far, the approach appears to be working. In Sunday’s Winthrop game, the team’s defensive intensity was evident.

By Patrick McArdle
Sports Editor

In its second appearance against a nationally ranked opponent in Bobcats’ Arena this season, the men’s basketball team again verged on victory but could not overcome its undefeated opponent, losing to Duke 73-79. Despite the burden of playing with four fouls for the final 12 minutes of the contest, Stephen Curry ’10 led the team in scoring with 20 points on 8-17 shooting and drained 4-7 from beyond the arc. Curry came into the Duke game after a career night at Appalachian State where Davidson bested the defending North Division Champion Mountaineers 71-60. Curry scored 38 points in the game, hitting his first five shots from the field. He finished with a career-high nine three-pointers and set a new scoring record for Appalachian State’s home court. Furthermore, Curry scored 28 points in the first half alone, which was only two shy of Fred Hetzel’s ’65 record for most points in a half. However, Curry’s foul trouble limited his minutes against Duke on Saturday. When Curry was not riding the bench due to four offensive foul calls, Davidson outscored Duke 66-48, but the Blue Devils outscored the Wildcats 31-7 when Curry sat.

Jason Richards ’08, the nation’s leader in assists, added 14 points and 11 assists to the effort, but uncharacteristically went 2-8 from the free throw line. Overall, the Wildcats shot a paltry 5-12 from the charity stripe. The same poor shooting that plagued Davidson against the Tar Heels haunted the team once again against the Blue Devils. While the Wildcats could only manage an 8-24 performance from three, Duke shot 44% from downtown led by their sharpshooters.The trio of DeMarcus Nelson, John Scheyer, and Greg Paulus. Gerald Henderson led Duke in scoring with 21 points, collected eight rebounds, and made three important blocks in the Blue Devil victory. Davidson converted in the paint during the first half, outscoring Duke 24-14 from down low. Yet despite this advantage and a nearly identical mark in field goal percentage during the first half, Duke shot well from outside, hitting six three-pointers to end the half with an 11-point lead. Perhaps more crucial than Duke’s hot shooting was Curry’s second offensive foul, which benched him with eight minutes to play in the first half. Duke jumped at the chance, scoring 10 straight points to extend a 17-4 run. Down by 16 points, Davidson clawed back towards the end of the half behind lay-ups by Boris Meno ’08, Andrew Lovedale ’09, and Curry. The Wildcats carried this momentum into the second half, rallying from 12 points down in the final five minutes to pull within five points at 70-65. However, Duke prevailed behind the clutch play of Paulus, who connected on a high-arching three-pointer and an athletic fadeaway and who secured a high-contact steal to force the Wildcats into a fouling situation with less than a minute to play. Scheyer and Henderson made the final four free throws of the game, making both a late lay-up by Will Archambault ’10 and Curry’s final three-point shot irrelevant.

After the game, Coach McKillop did page 11 defensive takeaways often spurred offensive runs by the Wildcats. Strong defense down the stretch allowed the Wildcats to wrap up a close game. The score was knotted at 35-35 with 12:41 remaining when Danielle Hemerka was fouled on a made jumper, and she converted an old-fashioned three-point play. Davidson went on a 10-1 run over the next three minutes, scoring on four consecutive possessions in which Monica Laune ’10 and Mercedes Robinson both netted three-point buckets. But Winthrop responded, finding their range from three and battling back into the game. The Eagles took a 57-55 lead at the 4:26 mark on a three-point shot. Fortunately, the Wildcats finished strong. A Housley three-ball with 1:23 remaining put Davidson ahead 62-61. Strong defense secured the victory. Paquette’s steal with one minute remaining allowed Thompson to add points to the Davidson lead on the ensuing possession. Hemerka’s pivotal steal off Winthrop’s next inbound pass forced the Eagles to foul at the 54-second mark. Housley netted four free throws to ensure the victory.

This win came after the Wildcats' triumph in SoCon play on Nov. 29 with a victory against Georgia Southern. Davidson led most of the way, spurred on by Robinson’s third straight double-double; Robinson scored 15 and collected 11 rebounds. Thompson had 12 points, four rebounds, and three assists. Davidson will not face another conference opponent until Jan. 2 at College of Charleston. Thursday, the team will match up with East Tennessee State. The game will have special significance for Coach Watts, who played college ball at East Tennessee State (Class of ’81). The players are optimistic at this early point in the season. The young team has loads of potential, and it is constantly looking to improve. “We are just trying to be better each time we step on the floor, so that by March, we will be exactly where we want to be,” Housley said.

Alex Thompson ’10 capped off a run to beat Winthrop on Sunday.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Housley’s three-pointer sinks Winthrop

Stephen Curry ’10
Basketball
Hometown: Charlotte, NC

With just over a minute to go against Winthrop, Honna Housley ’08 scored her 13th point on a three-pointer from the top of the key. The shot gave Davidson a one-point lead that they never relinquished. Stephen Curry ’10 was named SoCon Player of the Month after scoring 38 points against Appalachian State and 20 points versus Duke. He was also named SoCon Player of the Week.