2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mayoral, from page 1

which there is a repeal pending. The tax would help fund the construction of the commuter rail. Jackson is more
concerned with the potential of the commuter rail ending in Davidson, due to the fact that it is the last
town in Mecklenburg County. “I am absolutely opposed to it ending in Davidson,” Jackson said.

In spite of their disagreements on town development, Jackson and Woods both nodded to the importance of building affordable housing,
in addition to the importance of maintaining a diverse community. When asked if they believed there had been a decline
in the population of African-Americans in Davidson and how they would promote a diverse community as mayor, Woods and Jackson
touched upon similar issues. They both agreed that the African-American population in Davidson is dwindling and that changes need to
be made to maintain diversity in Davidson. Woods cited lack of jobs and lack of affordable housing as the two
main forces driving out this segment of the community.

NEWS

“Development will provide jobs to Davidson residents, and I will work hard to provide more affordable housing,” Woods said.

After questions from The Davidsonian and SGA, the floor opened up for audience questions. Among the issues raised by students,
faculty, and town residents were Mr. Jackson’s negative campaigning, the commuter rail, and the cable consortium with Mooresville, among other
issues.

In the closing remarks, Jackson proposed having non-voting college representatives, one student and one professor, on the town board to
weigh in on town discussions and issues. Woods concluded by encouraging further discussion and debate, even after the event was
over. “It is perfectly okay to disagree on and debate issues. It actually strengthens us and helps us look for
solutions to our challenges.”

See the voter box for how to become active in Davidson’s electoral process next week. For a full transcript of
the debate, visit www.thedavidsonian.com.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

10/15/07 02:50 a.m.
Intoxicated Pedestrian
Officer Vanzant was contacted by Officer Moore in reference to an incoherent, intoxicated student being carried in a trash can.
Officer Moore reported that the subject had been vomiting. Officer Vanzant had dispatch call Medic to come and check out
the subject. While waiting for Medic to arrive, the subject vomited three more times. Medic 13 arrived on the scene
at 3:12 a.m. and the officer advised them of the situation. By this time, the subject was talking and drinking
water with the help of some friends. Medic advised that due to the subject’s intoxication, he could not refuse transport.
Medic transported him to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center.

10/20/07 02:35 a.m.
Intoxicated Driver
Sgt. Tim Ramsey, while standing in front of the Outpost, observed a golf cart traveling toward the Outpost with a
number of students. The golf cart crossed the curb at an unsafe speed while students stood on the back. The
reporting officer approached the driver to discuss his driving. It became obvious that the driver was intoxicated. The driver stated
that he had only five or six beers. When offered a voluntary Alco-Sensor test, he declined.

10/21/07 01:21 a.m.
Assist Fire
Officer Vanzant was dispatched to Richardson Dorm in reference to an intoxicated person. Upon arrival, the officer observed Medic #7
arriving on the scene. Davidson Fire assisted one Medic personnel with one subject, while the officer and the other Medic
talked with the other. Both were intoxicated, vomiting, unable to give medical personnel information concerning what they had been drinking
or how much they had had to drink. Both subjects needed assistance in standing and walking. Medic #7 transported them
to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center.

10/22/07 11:25 a.m.
Elevator Malfunction
Officer Agan was dispatched to a 911 emergency call located at the North end elevator of Chambers. Upon arrival,Officer Agan
was advised that nine students were trapped on the elevator near the 2nd floor. The Davidson Fire Department responded along
with Tony Freeze of The Physical Plant. The elevator was manually opened at the second floor and the students were
able to exit unhindered.

107 Dormitory Dr.
Patterson Court
Richardson Dorm
Chambers Building

JACKSON FOR DAVIDSON MAYOR
RUNNING TO KEEP DAVIDSON SPECIAL!
Davidson College Distinguished Alumnus Award, 2007 — ET: William E. “Bill” Jackson, Jr.

By Nina Mace
Staff Writer

This Monday, a slew of skeletons, pirates, and princesses traveled door-to-door through Davidson College dormitories looking to get a head
start on their trick-or-treating. The event was sponsored by Bonner Scholars and the Residence Life Office (RLO) and was also
made possible by the contributions of College students. Bonner Scholars organized groups of students to take kids from the Ada
Jenkins After School Program to trick-or-treat on campus. Faculty and staff were also encouraged to bring their costumed children to
the event.

Children of all ages roamed through “up-the-Hill” dorms collecting candy and enjoying the spooky ambiance created by elaborate hall decorations.
Participants spanned the age spectrum, with clusters of pre-teens running solo, mobs of toddlers dragging one frazzled parent, and a
single small child experiencing her first trick-or-treat with five adults in tow. For kids, the appeal was obvious. “Getting candy,”
was one six-year-old’s favorite part. The six-year-old also had a more personalized reason for trick-or-treating at Davidson, telling everyone on
the hall, “I want to find Chelsea—she’s my favorite babysitter.”

Tammy Dorcas, a parent, says she loves trick-or-treating at Davidson because, “The students are so friendly, and,” she said with
a laugh, “it’s a lot less walking.” Students enjoyed handing out candy as much as the kids and parents enjoyed
receiving it. Some saw it as a welcome break from studying: one group gathered in the hallway to enjoy hot
drinks and Halloween treats while they doled out the goodies. A creative student put her basket from the inauguration luncheon
to good use, using it to hold her room’s supply of candy. Elizabeth Lacks ’10 decided to give out treats
because “it’s fun to see all the cute costumes and their smiles.” Whether children were shy or extroverted in the
midst of trick-or-treating, one thing is certain: no one went home empty-handed. By the end of the route, most kids
were clutching bags stuffed with candy and plastic pumpkins filled to the brim. For parents, the hardest part of trick-or-treating
at Davidson will be keeping the kids from eating it all on the car ride home—and resisting sneaking some for
themselves.

Again this year, funds from the George L. Abernethy Endowment will be available to support worthy initiatives by current first-year,
sophomore, or junior students. [It is possible for us to fund a senior who expects to complete all research work
prior to graduation.] Individual awards fall into one of the following categories:
1) Independent student research, either in the US or abroad.
2) Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year or the summer.
3) Collaborative research by students and faculty. The student must have a clearly defined independent role in the research.

At the request of the donor, applications are limited to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences. For
your information, last year the Abernethy Endowment supported projects with grants up to $3,300; the average award was about $1,700.
Application forms are available in the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283). Completed application forms are
due back in this office before 5:00 p.m. on Friday, November 9, 2007. The announcement of awards should occur during
the exam period of the fall semester.
