THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2007 — 3

Davidsonian’s Town development series turns to West Davidson

By ALISSA IREY
Staff Writer

In this last article of the 2007 Davidson Town development series, The Davidsonian would like to address the controversies and
concerns surrounding the area of town known as West Davidson.

The challenges facing the neighborhoods of West Davidson have been visible throughout the year, but they have roots that stretch
decades into the past and implications that extend well into the future.

The West Davidson Stakeholders Committee provides a venue through which concerned West Davidson residents can voice distress, discuss community problems,
and collectively seek solutions. Earlier this year, Town Planner Lauren Blackburn organized the West Davidson Stakeholders Committee report. The report
was finished in August, and in early September the Town Board discussed report findings at an open Town Hall meeting.

West Davidson has been aptly described as a diverse area with diverse concerns. It includes a historically African-American community that
is, according to residents, growing smaller by the year. As older members pass away, the younger generation is leaving home
to seek employment or to build lives elsewhere. Longtime resident Dora DuBose expressed concern earlier this year about the “gentrification”
of West Davidson, saying that the Town should “work with the residents who choose to remain.”

She referred to rising property taxes and potential pressure from developers as “the Goliath that’s on top of us.”

DuBose urged the board to take proactive measures to maintain the diversity in Davidson.

“Keep the historical African-American presence in this township. That’s key,” she said. “We’re not asking for handouts. We’re asking that
the Town work with us to make a plan to keep [our] livelihood, keep [our] heritage, keep [our] historical significance
alive.”

Resident Vic Powell spoke of his neighbors’ and friends’ “anxiety [and] tension, [from] being approached continuously with unsolicited offers.” He
added that the community needs a solution “to keep [residents] from suffering from increased taxes. They could be taxed out
of their homes essentially.”

Some residents have expressed distress at receiving large quantities of direct mail solicitation from realtors, but the board explained that
it is not in their power to monitor or control private correspondence through the postal system.

Residents also voiced concern over how to address the approaches of both local and out-of-town residents and developers, seeking to
purchase land in West Davidson. In response, the committee report suggested establishing a free real estate counseling service or real
estate “101” class, perhaps at the Ada Jenkins Center. Such services could work “to answer some basic questions.”

Blackburn explained the apprehensions some residents have communicated to her.

“I think there’s a lot of skepticism about the fairness of those [real estate] offers. [Residents] just want to be
sure they’re getting a good deal,” she said.

Ultimately, The Town Board said that there are a number of options for preventing the “gentrification” described by DuBose, including
the preservation of whole neighborhoods as historical, and the possibility of transferring development rights to resident families. According to the
then-Mayor Randy Kincaid, it is “an exceptionally complicated process,” and one that might not work on the small scale of
individual lots and residences. The option of historical neighborhood preservation is more feasible, but the Town leadership said that such
a measure raises the issue of fairness.

While designating an area as historically preserved makes it off-limits to developers, doing so would probably limit property profit margins
on individual real estate lots. Thus, official area preservation could be unfair to residents who are against or are ambivalent
to such a measure.

“Do we want neighborhood preservation, or do we want maximum property values?” Kincaid asked. “The community has to tell us...
The Town didn’t invent it, that’s just a fact of development, a fact of life.”

Residents would need to make a decision collectively to designate a neighborhood as preserved, and so far such a consensus
appears distant.

Some members of the Stakeholders Committee expressed dissatisfaction with the final West Davidson Stakeholders’ Committee report. DuBose said that the
report contained “misstatements,” and “false statements.” She suggested that the Davidson African-American Coalition, of which she is a member, would
be interested in presenting a rebuttal to the document. In any case, the community is still searching for a definite
solution.

While the best route for protecting residents and preserving community identity in West Davidson is perhaps unclear, Blackburn said that
development, change, and appreciating real estate values bring valid concerns for local residents.

The Town and the community will need to continue to seek viable solutions in 2008.

“I think there is a lot of fear, probably grounded and founded,” Blackburn said. “Because there probably are people out
there who don’t have the Town’s best interests at heart.”

“Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus!”

FROM RIGHT NOW THROUGH DECEMBER 20th, YOU MAY CANCEL YOUR LIBRARY FINES WITH DONATIONS OF FOOD AND/OR DONATE TO THE
NEEDY IN OUR AREA

Remember, please, we are feeding families. No single serving/small items. Suggested items:

Canned Fruit
Canned Meats
Soups
Jello
Large boxes of Pasta
Spaghetti Sauce
Assorted Vegetables
Peanut butter
Large boxes of Cereal
Jelly

HOW: One non-perishable food item will cover up to $1.00 of overdue fines. (E.G. For 5 items of food, you
can pay for $4.50 in fines.)
