4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Development, from page 1

ing the “college-town” image to building a golf course to providing low-income housing for working-class people. The 1972 “Master Plan”
that Hammer and Associates ultimately produced called for a revamp of the town complete with the addition of a mall,
parking lots, “a youth center” and “expansions of the present Town Hall, fire station and library.” Based on the evidence,
it seems that the town both wanted to expand from the College and to maintain ties with it. As Hammer
and Associates wrote, “Davidson must be able to attract executive-level families to the community in addition to those generated by
the college needs and local businesses.”

1980s: During the 1980s, development in Davidson found new energy. Under Russell Knox, long-time Davidson mayor and real estate agent,
the town built its post office in 1984 and beautified Main Street during the mid-80s. According to “The Charlotte Observer,”
Knox “envisioned small specialty shops dotting the completed mall, helping the town maintain a friendly, village atmosphere.” More controversial issues,
however, came to the forefront. According to the 2007 West Davidson Stakeholder Committee Report, a private business called the Davidson
Development Corporation bought African-American homes on Griffith Street near the railroad with the purpose of creating “a greenway entrance into
town and the college.” The greenway never materialized, however, and many African-Americans were left feeling that they had been misled
into selling their land.

Another controversial issue centered around the development of land near Main Street. The town wanted to build a mall; developers
Joe C. Poteat and Tom Clark did not necessarily oppose the mall but wanted to build a hotel and considered
the town’s policies inconsistent with growth. They fought against the town, and debates over the issue turned ugly and then
stalled. In one example of such fighting, Poteat writes on behalf of Clark against Nancy MacCormac, the town’s mayor during
the early 80s, concerning the town’s proposal to turn the space that Clark intended for the College Inn into a
parking lot. In the section of the document entitled “A Last Ditch Plea,” Poteat writes, “Why sacrifice this once in
a lifetime opportunity (which will benefit everyone) for a parking lot?” Poteat, in fact, claimed that the Inn would bring
Davidson “millions of dollars” and that the mall would “more than double the present size of the business capacity of
the Town.” In the end, neither the mall nor Clark’s College Inn materialized.

Even so, concerns about development found new voice with the arrival of wealthy landowners and the rise of costs of
living. When asked in 1985 whether development worried him, the College’s own Bill Giduz, quoted in “The Charlotte Observer,” maintained
that he would not worry until “the day that apartment complexes start sprouting up on the outskirts of town.” That
day would come years later. For the present, Davidson witnessed the development of River Run, “A Golf and Country Club
Community.” Mayor Knox pushed to annex the development to the town. In a 1989 issue of “The Charlotte Observer,” Knox
said, “We are a town where most of the citizens don’t want to grow, but things are going to grow
whether we like it or not. And this way, if we can annex that area, we’ll have control over it.
Plus we'll get better utilities.” River Run increased Davidson’s population two-fold.

1990: For years the College had owned land on and near Lake Norman. According to College archivist Jan Blodgett, “They
[the College] tried to develop it for years and could never find a financially viable package to develop it.” Eventually,
the College sold off the land, even as other companies worked on their own development projects. For example, the Lake
Norman Company, already responsible for North Harbor and nearby developments, planned to build “333 condominium units and patio homes worth
40 million dollars around the Davidson exit,” according to “The Charlotte Observer.” Those plans, however, went awry when the company
filed for bankruptcy in 1990. Soon thereafter, the College acquired land nearby and later sold it to Carolina’s Medical Center
which, in turn, sold it to the children’s hospital. Transactions like these, of which there were many, demonstrate both the
College’s ongoing involvement in town development and the complexity of such development.

According to the town’s current planning director Kris Krider, Davidson tried to control development by restricting what developers could do.
The town would allow development, but it would control the development. For example, the Town banned drive-thru restaurants and implemented
strict guidelines for buildings’ appearance, resulting in the ubiquitous brick. The town seems to have viewed itself as an organization
that handles development rather than seeking it. Krider’s assessment of the town’s position today may well also summarize its position
in the past: “Our job is not to control growth. Our job is to manage growth. The market has a
powerful role over growth, but the town has a role in managing growth.”

Growth boomed during the 1990s. The town’s statistics show that 16 homes were built in 1992, 168 homes in 1994,
and 225 homes in 1996. Blodgett points out that the opening of the new Davidson Elementary in 1994 indicated how
much the population had increased; on the first day of classes, the school was already overcrowded. As a result of
the population boom and the rising cost of living, gentrification and affordable housing became greater concerns to the town. Gentrification
affected poor blacks and whites, perhaps forcing the low-income population out of town. Davidson’s African-American community, in particular, saw its
population dwindle. “Davidson had a very significant African-American community until 10 to 15 years ago,” Blackburn said. Gentrification may have
forced African-Americans out of Davidson. According to Blackburn, others believe that the increasing white population, the fact that the area
“‘is just not attracting minorities” and the possibility that that “black community, in particular, is aging and...not being replaced” explain
the town’s dwindling African-American population. In any case, concerns about gentrification continue today.Concerns about affordable housing and development also continue
to plague the town. To address these concerns, the Davidson Housing Coalition and Preserve Small-Town Davidson formed in the 1990s.
The former organization seeks to address formally concerns that have been around since the 1960s or earlier. The latter organization,
in its own words, holds “the belief that many town planners and officials currently favor relatively high-density growth and thus
are not taking adequate steps to maintain the town’s overwhelmingly supported and deeply small-town character.”

—The Davidsonian’s overview of town development history will continue next week with coverage of development from the 90s until the
present day. The Davidsonian would like to thank Jan Blodgett for her ongoing help with this project. For additional information
about these issues and others involving the history of the College, visit her in the library archives. For current information,
visit www.davidsonnews.net or www.ci.davidson.nc.us.

NEWS
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2007

Davidson student fights for Myanmar’s rights from halfway across the world
By JORDAN C. WALL
Staff Writer

Thousands have taken to the streets of Myanmar to oppose the country’s military regime, known as the State Law and
Order Restoration Council (SLORC), in what has been called the Saffron Revolution. The people of Myanmar have lived under the
SLORC’s rule for 40 years. Max Win ’10, an international student from Myanmar, is using the sidewalks of Davidson to
voice his opinion with the hope that others will join him in supporting the Myanmar resistance. Win petitioned the student
body to wear red last Friday to show support for the Saffron Revolution. “Students at many campuses are wearing red
in support and awareness, so I want Davidson to be aware too,” he said.

The term saffron refers to the color of the robes worn by Buddhist monks who are spearheading the revolution. The
movement came to fruition when Myanmar suffered a sudden, unexplained 500 percent increase in the cost of fuel in mid-August.
The abrupt price increase dissolved the Buddhist monks’ last drops of patience and initiated the protests. The demonstrations have escalated
over the past month with hundreds of arrests and shootings, resulting in an official death toll of 13. Additionally, the
international media have widely publicized the conflict between SLORC and the people of Myanmar. One of many points of contention
between the groups is the controversy surrounding the country’s name, Myanmar or Burma. “For me Myanmar makes sense,” Win said.
“Burmese is only one group, so calling it Burma only represents it as so, when there are many different people
there.” The United States continues to use the name Burma because it does not recognize SLORC as a legitimate government.

Win also rallied student support by posting flyers around campus to raise awareness. He now hopes to start a student
organization to raise funds for the U.S. Campaign for Burma. Win is candid about his efforts here at Davidson. “Everyone
is aware, so what?” he asked. Win does not think that his efforts have had a real impact on the
situation in Myanmar yet, but he has hope for the future. “This is the first step, and if more people
are aware of countries where human rights are violated, like in Darfur and Myanmar, we can have a practical impact,”
he said.

Win has struggled with being at Davidson in the midst of this conflict. He sometimes stays up at night to
receive news from friends and family, who often fight when he should be sleeping. “I think it’s a tragedy. I
saw the pictures of people dying every day, my people,” Win said. Win calls upon the inspirational wisdom of Nobel
Peace Prize winner Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, who, as a political voice for movements of change, is currently under
house arrest in Myanmar, for increased involvement. “Please use your liberty to promote ours,” Win said.

Demonstrations in Myanmar have escalated recently in what has been called the Saffron Revolution, and the official death toll now
stands at 13.

Bell unveils Jena documentary
By MONICA JAMOUNEAU
News Editor

Austin Bell’s (’10) 18-minute documentary, aired for the first time last night in Duke Performance Hall, explored the tensions not
only of the situation in Jena itself but in the feelings of the Davidson students who traveled the 16-hour bus
ride to the protest. The documentary, according to Bell, discusses “why [Jena 6] is relevant to Davidson and why we
should keep talking about it.” Consisting of a history of the situation and numerous interviews of attendees as well as
President Tom Ross, it mainly provided footage of Jena’s crowded streets and emotional protesters for students unable to go to
Louisiana last Thursday.

“I actually made a fake press pass,” Bell said of his ability to videotape inside Jena High School and access
the press area of the protest. He said he spoke with CNN’s press representative, who had not gone to speak
with anyone in the crowd and was only covering the event because “people had been emailing [CNN] about it.” Fox
News covered the Jena 6 protests, Chris Burton ’08, president of the Student Government Association (SGA), said, but the large
news station “misrepresented it by saying there was only 1,000 people down there, which was just preposterous.”

Ross’s Opening Convocation speech, which addressed the presence of the Confederate flag on campus and spurred discussions about race at
Davidson, was also mentioned several times throughout the documentary and the later panel discussion. Burton spoke of racism as an
“ugly thing” that is always around us, even though we sometimes do not acknowledge it. “We need to lean into
discomfort,” Jessica Givens ’10 said. “Just say how you feel.” She added, “It’s our jobs as students not to be
apathetic.” “We don’t allow ourselves to take time away from being a student to do things that are way, way
more important,” Nora Goldberger ’08 said.

Bell’s documentary ended with the charge not to confine learning at Davidson to the classroom. To bring a revolution of
ideas, Burton said, “It’s going to take a purging of sorts.”
