THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2007

Status and sym- DesPain reports distorted version of truth bol, continued

ALEX Hoyt Yowl Editor

Two weeks ago, in a staff editorial titled “Status and Symbol,” The Davidsonian took the initiative to police the school’s
rampant, corrosively preppy fashion scene. The problem, according to the editors, is Polo, or, more broadly, the pretentious and haughty
attitudes of those who wear it. I’m no apologist for haughty, croaky-wearing, pop-collared frat dawgs whose prerequisites for giving out
bids are Polo shirts and chinos with penguins, croquet mallets or little Strom Thurmonds. That sort of superficial elitism is
unacceptable (though I don’t find it particularly prevalent at Davidson). But I also don’t appreciate this sartorial evangelism from our
newspaper’s editors.

Now, there is no doubt that those editors had a point with the pretension of Polo. Mr. Lauren, so suave
and imperious in his seersucker, his hair perfectly disheveled, must himself reek of pretension to many in the fashion world.
Born Ralph Lifschitz, the son of a house painter, he fashioned a waspy past from second-hand suits and a career
out of the pretensions of others. But he did so by democratizing a Brooks Brothers look that, until then, could
only be worn by those who would never dream of buying off the rack. I thus find it unfair to
dismiss the brand as elitist. In a strange way, Polo represents the appropriation of upper-class values by middle-class America. Maybe
this is pretentious. But in a Model-T sort of way, it is also democratic and distinctly American.

I do not, however, think this so-called Polo epidemic is as “distinctly Davidson” as our editors would suggest. Have you
ever seen the shoppers of South Park mall? The student section of an SCC football game? How about China? The
mallets on those Polo shirts are big enough to knock you unconscious. I also don’t think a garment can be
either pretentious or genuine by itself. All is relevant to the wearer. Wrangler jeans, the most genuinely no-bullshit All-American brand
I can think of (endorsed by Brett Favre no less), would become intolerably pretentious if worn by me—a suspiciously liberal,
never-to-be-horse-broken thrower of wobbly spirals. Polo shirts, by the same token, would be pretentious if worn by the Wrangler cowboy
crowd. But since Davidson is primarily made up of upper-middle-class kids whose moms shop for them at Belk TJ Max,
I see little pretense in the pervasiveness of the Polo.

Granted, all fashion revolves around pretense to some extent. What do cargo pants say if not, “I’m vaguely militaristic, or
at least really handy”? And what is a tweed jacket if not an homage to your kindred underappreciated spirit, Woody
Allen? But in the transient, constantly cultivated province of fashion, the Polo look has remained remarkably fixed at the confluence
of the conservative and the pastel. Whether that makes the style less pretentious or more secure in the success of
its pretenses is beyond me and not worth disputing here.

What is worth disputing is the pervasiveness of other forms of pretension on campus. The staff editorial rattled off a
few of these, among them the grammar snob, the “I have more work than you” snob, and the snob who
chants “Safety school!” at basketball games. They even listed one breed I’ve never encountered, the omniscient snob, who thinks he
is God. Who would such a person be? A soothsayer? A clairvoyant? That creepy bearded guy in a toga hurling
imaginary lightning bolts from the fringes of the party? Or maybe I do have an idea of the omnisciently pretentious
person. Could it be that holier-than-thou voice that so recently added the fashion amendment as the eleventh commandment? Or the
anonymous voice that just last week praised Davidson students for their trip to Jena, before preaching to their entire readership
about what “you” (not “we”) should do to make Davidson a better place?

Pretentious fashion is all over campus. Even more abundant is intellectual pretension, found in seminars, in the Sculpture Garden, maybe
in this newspaper, or even this very editorial. I don’t know what will fix these pretensions, but I do know
that moral pretension on behalf of our editors will not.

Alex Hoyt ’09 is an English major from Salem, VA. Contact him at alhoyt@davidson.edu.

BRYAN Norris’ Guest Columnist

The recent testimonies of General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker spurred much political conversation even if Democrats and Republicans
paint vastly different images of the hearings. Some hail the Petraeus Report as a bold, grand new chapter in the
Iraq War: the Sunni people are behind America and Al-Qaeda is being driven out state by state. Others are (rightfully)
more skeptical and question the findings and related claims about the war’s progress. Finally, others like Bobby DesPain paint a
picture so out-of-proportion that it might be mistaken for a Salvador Dali.

DesPain’s perspective on the hearings is rather interesting; from his belief that it only requires a pretty uniform and a
chiseled jawline to lead an army to DesPain’s suggestion that Congressmen’s service is somehow less than General Petraeus’s service, I
can’t help but be amazed by how skewed and misinformed the whole article seems. In order to address every fallacy
which DesPain’s article presents, I have devised a simple plan (See what I’m doing here, President Bush?) to disarm my
fellow student’s argument.

First, I'll begin with the assertion that everybody’s crazy about a sharply-dressed man. DesPain takes a curious position regarding Petraeus’s
uniform and figure. He argues that the General’s dress uniform “demonstrated why he is the head of the U.S. Military
in Iraq,” and that “since General Petraeus does cut such a commanding figure, he is without a doubt the best
man to recommend the Iraqi policy.” Let’s consider this for a moment. It seems to me that DesPain thinks two
features make a great general: fashion sense and a figure worthy of Michelangelo’s “David.” Now don’t get me wrong, it
would be neat to have what may be the most beautiful sculpture of all...Time modeling Calvin Klein’s latest at the
head of our military forces in Iraq; however, I hope we all agree that, though David the man was a
great fighter, “David” the statue might not do as great a job leading our troops. Unfortunately, Mr. DesPain commits more
serious, troubling, and ultimately dangerous errors in his article. Throughout the first portion of the article, DesPain attacks the Congressmen,
calling them blunderers and questioning their service to this country. Mr. DesPain fudges facts in these assertions. However, it is
true that some, like Senator Clinton, delivered prepared comments. However, this is not to say that Petraeus performed flawlessly either.
Those who watched his testimony witnessed General Petraeus fail to answer THE question: “Why are we fighting in Iraq?” The
General’s inability to satisfy this frightfully important question astonished, dumbfounded, and chilled me to the bone. On the other side
of the bench, Senators Biden and Warner (a Republican, I might add), as well as several others, had choice words
for Petraeus. Senator Boxer of California displayed pictures, graphs, charts, and quotations during her questioning before the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee. In several instances, it seemed that the General was unprepared for many of the questions. That said, the effortlessness
with which Mr. DesPain questions the Congressmen’s service is the most worrisome aspect of the entire article. I hope that
I am not alone when I say that Congress is what makes America, well, America. It is our unique system
of government, our love of democracy that makes us who we are. It is NOT our military. Our armed forces,
while truly brave and great, do not make America what it is—they simply protect us from attempts to dislodge our
much-beloved Republic. I hope that I am not alone when I say that Congress is what makes America, well, America.
It is our unique system of government, our love of democracy that makes us who we are. For DesPain to
suggest that our military’s service is more American, more patriotic, and more important than our Congress’s service is sheer folly.
The day that the United States Military is more American and their service more important than that of the United
States Congress is the day that our great nation will lie in ruin while everything our Founding Fathers believed in
will fall shattered to the ground. I agree with Mr. DesPain regarding the MoveOn.org advertisement: it is a propagandist, sensationalist
work. But what separates me from Mr. DesPain is that I have the good grace to realize that his article
is exactly the same thing. Bryan Norris ’10 is a political science major from Charlotte, N.C. Contact him at brnorris@davidson.edu.

Vandalism of “You” evokes questions about art

A couple of weeks ago, on a cool, crisp September morning that promised to be disgustingly hot by midday, I
walked to class with books and coffee in hand. Passing the newly-installed sculpture garden, I looked up from “The New
York Times” to see everybody’s favorite hermaphrodite. I noticed, however, that something was different about our rusty sculpture—it had donned
a cape and a note. I walked up to see what the note said (“DUFF,” as we all know), chuckled
lightly (Gasp! He did not laugh!) and walked off. I did, and I’m sorry. I know that we’ve read many
columns from angry art students about the vandalism of “You,” and like you, I realize that few people outside of
the art department care at all about the event. I believe, however, that this act has significant importance. Last week,
Katherine Hester wrote an article, titled “Vandalism of ‘You’ shows intellectual immaturity.” She related her frustration and the opinion that,
“Davidson has a long way to go in terms of understanding and appreciating the visual arts as a part of
intellectual discourse.” I suppose that my laughing at the temporary state of “You” reveals my intellectual immaturity or my misunderstanding
of the visual arts. I believe, however, that this act evokes an important philosophical and political question that all in
an intellectual community should consider, regardless of major: “What exactly is art?” In our age, it seems that a lot
of works are defined as art. I spent a week this summer in New York City perusing MoMA and the
Met, enraptured by numerous works. There were some, however, that I seriously questioned. For example, MoMA owns a work titled
“Fluorescent Pink Light in a Corner”—and that’s exactly what it is. It did nothing for me—I simply chuckled and walked
away thinking that there was no way that a pink fluorescent light in a corner was a work of art.
Is my 12-year-old brother’s rendition of Van Gogh’s “Starry Night Over the Rhone” art? I love my brother, and I
value his painting greatly, but I don’t think it deserves the status of art. Is art whatever one defines it
to be? Can it be that relativistic? If art really is whatever you define it to be, it seems therefore
that art is simply nothing. When art is nothing, you get capes on hermaphrodites. I’m not saying that “You” is
not a work of art—time will tell—but I think that an intellectual community should be very careful deciding how it
defines and recognizes art. Can the next guy be an artist just like Raphael was an artist, or Monet was
an artist, or Pollock, Cézanne, Matisse, Van Gogh, Michelangelo, or de Kooning were artists? Can we give just anyone that
status? I honestly don’t think so, and I think that though draping a cape over “You” may have been intellectually
immature, it has the potential to prompt an important debate that could essentially define art and the artist for contemporary
times; we should not pass up the opportunity to engage in this discussion. To do so is more immature than
throwing a cape on a rusty hermaphrodite. Ryan Gough ’10 is a Political Science major from Elizabethton, TN. Contact him
at rygough@davidson.edu.
