Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS

Women’s Committee to host diverse events this semester

By Monica JAMOUNEAU
News Editor

The Davidson Women’s Committee (DWC) elected new board members and planned a number of events at its first meeting of the semester last night. Hannah Rogers-Ganter '08, president of the DWC, led discussion with a group of about 30 female students in the Union. The meetings are dynamic and informative, as well as brief, for students interested in women’s issues.

“With our wide range of events, we make it so every woman on campus can find something she’s interested in,” Rogers-Ganter said.

First on the schedule for the DWC is a discussion on body image in Hispanic culture on Sept. 17, co-hosted by the Organization of Latin American Students (OLAS). It also plans to work with Davidson African Students Association (DASA), the Gay-Straight Alliance (GSA), and other organizations. Another popular idea was a “Sex and the City” viewing at which women can gather for good food and conversation about issues like race, relationships, cohabitation, sexuality, and single parenthood.

Although the Vagina Monologues are a possibility for the small theater production that DWC plans for later in the fall, at the top of the list is the play “The Necessary Targets,” a portrayal of women in war-torn areas. The work was recommended by committee member Libby Hubbard '08, who studied abroad in the Balkans. Auditions for the play will most likely occur in late September.

Last year, DWC held an annual awareness-raising walk and faculty-student luncheons designed to bring all women on campus—students, faculty, and staff—together. It will continue the tradition this semester with diverse themes.

“Think about how often you actually sit down and eat with a faculty member,” Rogers-Ganter said. “Almost never.”

Last spring, the organization brought in a sex toy specialist, who will return sometime in the coming months, as well as an instructor on what to look for when you own your first apartment.

Kristina Johnson '10 was elected as vice-president, while Halley Aelion '08 and Sarah Pate '08 will serve as publicity chairs. DWC was organized in 2003 and has steadily gained members since that time. Anyone interested in joining the DWC can email Rogers-Ganter at harogers-ganter@davidson.edu.

News in Brief

By Alissa IREI AND MONICA JAMOUNEAU
News Editors

New Housing Coordinator

The Town of Davidson has hired a new affordable housing coordinator, according to the website davidsonnews.net. Cindy Reid began her new job, which involves managing developer and builder compliance with the Town of Davidson's affordable housing ordinance, last month. Reid is also expected to establish a “tracking system” for affordable housing in town to ensure that the units are maintained at acceptable standards as they pass between residents. As of now, there is no such system in place. This is the first official affordable housing coordinator position in the Town of Davidson. Several officials previously performed the duties that will now be Reid’s.

According to davidsonnews.net, “Davidson’s affordable housing rules, first adopted in 2001 and revised in 2005, require developers to provide 12.5 percent of residential units at prices deemed affordable to people with lower incomes... The town ordinance mandates that 30 percent of the affordable units should be affordable to those with annual gross incomes no more than 80 percent of the median.”

Reid was formerly an assistant city attorney in Charlotte.

Laundry in Ryburn Closed

Students living in Martin Court apartments should be informed that the laundry services in Ryburn will be unavailable for two weeks, beginning this Monday, Sept. 17. Leslie Urban, Associate Director of Residence Life, says that the facility will have new washer and dryer machines and new paint when renovations are completed. Laundry has not been removed by 7 a.m. on Monday, RLO and the Physical Plant, who will be doing the renovations, will not be responsible for lost or missing clothing. The Martin Court laundry and the remainder should be affordable for those whose incomes are no more than 80 percent of the median.

---at 50 percent of the area’s median family income. BP's newly refurbished College Laundromat will remain open for those affected by the closing. Students will be informed by email about updates and the official re-opening of the laundry facility in Ryburn.

KEEP DAVIDSON SPECIAL
Jackson for Mayor
November 6

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2007

Women’s Committee will host myriad events this semester, like discussion panels.

Students be warned, flasher still on the lam
By KATHERINE JOHNSON
Staff Writer

Campus Police believe the suspect accused of exposing himself to a woman jogger on the Davidson Greenway last week made another appearance, this time on College grounds, on Monday. A man reported encountering a suspicious male sitting in a silver pickup truck, outside of the Baker Sports Complex. The suspect asked the man, who had just finished exercising in Baker, questions about his weight and the intensity of his workout. The man became uncomfortable and contacted Campus Police.

Last Wednesday, a female jogger encountered a man on the Greenway “with his pants down, performing an indecent act,” according to a campus-wide email from Chief of Campus Police Fountain Walker. The woman reported the incident to the Davidson Police Department, describing the man as “a middle-aged white man in his late 40s or early 50s. He was shirtless, wearing a green or gray baseball cap and tan cargo shorts.” “He appeared to have a shaved head and was wearing glasses.” The unidentified woman first saw the man near Robert Walker Drive. During the second encounter, as she approached Hudson Place, the man had his pants down. He was apparently waiting for her.

According to Walker, security has increased near the area where the suspect was initially spotted and around the cross-country trails.

“Although Davidson is generally a safe place, it is not ‘in a bubble.’”
--Angela Thompson
Campus Police Officer

The Campus Police Department is urging students to use common sense. According to Angela Thompson, Campus Police Officer, although Davidson College is generally a safe place, it is not “in a bubble.” She reminded students that bad things can happen anywhere. Do not walk alone by yourself at night and have the telephone number of Campus Police on your cell phone.

Admissions building next in line for renovations
By WILLIAM CANFIELD HUDSON
Staff Writer

Construction on Grey House, the Office of Admissions located across Main St. from the Cunningham parking lot, has begun. According to Director of the Physical Plant, David Holthouser, the project will be completed during the fall 2008 semester. With a projected final cost of $1.2 million dollars, the Admissions building will have an additional 5,000 square foot receiving lobby and meeting space for visitor information sessions.

“The current Grey building no longer handles the volume of Admission visitors that cross our threshold every year,” Holthouser said. “The building will face Griffith St., so that when you enter the Town from I-77, you will recognize a building presence better than approaching the rear of the building before. It will also have a front door facade on the north side, so that it will have a destination type relationship with visitor parking,” Holthouser said.

Design work for the Grey Admissions building began in May 2006, and so far there have not been any delays. Although the new building will eliminate some of the old parking spaces used by the Admissions Office, additional parking will be created among the trees behind WDAV, resulting in a small net gain of parking spaces.

The College chose Charlotte-based Heard Ratzlaff Construction, Inc. to construct the new building. The project solicited bids from multiple companies, including Crescent Construction Company, Inc. and Liles Construction Company, Inc. in a competitive bidding process. Heard Ratzlaff underbid Crescent and Liles by six figures to win the project.

Design work for the Grey Admissions building began in May 2006, and so far there have not been any delays. “The design moved along really well,” Holthouser said. “The department was really cooperative and insightful in design.”

The Grey House was constructed in the 1850s and last renovated in 1999. The building was a dormitory until 1999.