By READE JACOB
Staff Writer

It is Presidential campaign season—the most wonderful time of the four-year election cycle for the nation’s political gurus.

With the presidential primaries looming and the national election just over a year away, political organizations around campus have already
begun planning to engage both students and the surrounding community in the political debate.

In the coming months, groups such as Young Republicans, College Democrats, and the Davidson Chapter of Students for Barack Obama
plan to spearhead projects that will include fundraising, canvassing the local area, and recruiting voters.

Their ultimate hope is not only to support their chosen candidate, but to raise political awareness and involvement on campus
and in the local area.

The Davidson Chapter of Students for Barack Obama, founded last spring, has expanded its membership to over 60 ardent supporters
of the young candidate in just a few months. The group anticipates a busy season.

“Many members of the organization will be volunteering for the South Carolina Neighbor to Neighbor Canvass,” Andrew Gorang ’08, Interim
Director of the Davidson Chapter, said. “We are in close communication with the South Carolina campaign office and hope to
give them support throughout the coming months.”

Last spring, the group participated in a webcast with Obama, an opportunity Gorang anticipates will reoccur as the primaries draw
near.

While the Davidson Chapter of Students for Barack Obama focuses its efforts on a particular candidate, neither the Young Democrats
nor the College Republicans are endorsing any one contender, choosing to wait until after each party has made its respective
nomination.

In the meantime, however, neither group intends to remain idle until the primaries conclude.

See Politics, page 3

---

By JORDAN WALL
Staff Writer

North Carolina found itself in the throes of a major drought this summer, enduring a heat wave that lasted throughout
most of August. Temperatures reached as high as 104 degrees.

Irwin Brawley, College Director of Property Management and Grounds, said without reservation that this is “one of the worst droughts
[he’s] ever seen.”

The high heat and lack of rainfall have resulted in mandatory water restrictions on all residential property in Charlotte-Mecklenburg County.
Watering a lawn more than two days a week, refilling pools, ponds, or fountains, and car washing is currently prohibited.

Although the campus, as a commercial customer of Charlotte-Mecklenburg County utilities, is not obligated to abide by the new water
restrictions, Brawley said that the Physical Plant staff is definitely “thinking green.”

The College is following the water restriction guidelines by only watering its lawns twice a week, with a few exceptions
for athletic fields. The field hockey field, for example, requires watering to slow down the ball in play, but the
field is currently watered before official games only and not before practice.

Additionally, one of the largest consumers of water on campus, the motorcade car wash at the Physical Plant on Ridge
Rd., has been shut down to reduce waste. The motorcade car wash is used to clean golf carts and other
campus vehicles.

Because of the drought, the Physical Plant staff has struggled to maintain newly planted flora on campus. In order to
reduce water waste, they will limit the use of the campus sprinkler systems on the many lawns and flower beds
around campus, instead resorting to hand-watering.

See Drought, page 4

---

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Editor-in-Chief

President Tom Ross’s remark concerning the presence of a Confederate flag in an unspecified Davidson College building created strong emotional
responses among many students and set the rumor mill running after last Tuesday’s Convocation.

Soon after the speech, there were accounts of students marching the flag through Patterson Court, charges of racial insensitivity, and
also discussion concerning the appropriateness of the various North-South competitions that happen each year swirling around campus.

According to Sigma Alpha Epsilon’s (SAE) President Andrew Johnson ’08, the fraternity’s house has long featured the Confederate flag that
prompted Ross’s remarks. Usually, the flag hangs next to an American flag in the fraternity’s basement, but the brothers had
temporarily transferred it to the building’s main room, where Ross saw it.

After Ross’s remark, several brothers removed the flag, and Johnson discussed the flag’s various connotations, both positive and negative, with
Dean of Students and Vice President for Student Life Tom Shandley. Johnson also met with Student Government (SGA) President Chris
Burton ’08 to discuss how to open up the issue for student discussion.

Johnson also said that, if a march of any type took place, he was unaware of it and that it
was not an SAE activity.

Several members of both the College’s African-American and white populations have objected to the flag as a racist symbol that

See Flag, page 3

---

News

Students gather in front of the newly renovated Duke dormitory, which also is the new home of the Dean Rusk
offices.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2007

Water conservation efforts affect College

Cover your eyes: flasher on the lam, page 2
Women’s committee plans busy semester, page 2

Yowl!

Worst Night Down, page 5

Freshmen, check out the funny ad, page 5

Arts

Caroline Wood “Dish”es it up, page 6
...And introduces the VAC’s newest exhibition, page 6

Perspectives

The editors sound off about sounding off, page 8
The Yowl gets serious(-ish) about sculpture, page 8

Sports

Why the BCS stinks (Not what you think), page 10
September Madness, page 11

And don’t forget to check out the online edition...

---

First CLASS
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC

VOLUME 99, NUMBER 2
