5 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Noise, from page 1

unlawful for any person or entity to emit or cause to be emitted any noise across a property line or to a public street, sidewalk, or public vehicular area in excess of prescribed limits.” Sunday through Thursday from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. and Friday and Saturday from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m., the limit is 60 decibels (dBa). Sunday through Thursday from 9 p.m. to 7 a.m. and Friday and Saturday from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m., the limit is 55 dBa. For reference, 55 dBa sounds a little bit softer than a normal conversation.

According to the Red Book, weekday Court parties are permissible within certain regulations: “Patterson Court is limited to two weekday registered parties [with alcohol] per week to be coordinated through Patterson Court Council and the Patterson Court Adviser.” These parties must “end the service of alcohol by 12:00 midnight and no alcoholic beverages may be in possession after 1:00 a.m. in or around the house.” However, “[s]tudents may remain and socialize and have music as long as the Risk Manager chooses to remain on duty.”

Denham also voiced his concern that the noise levels on the Court reflect a broader problem with the College’s fraternity and eating house system, a problem that he summed up as “alcohol and bad manners.” Denham reports that an intoxicated student yelled at him as he exited the building and again as he pedaled away on his bicycle. “I went back and introduced myself to the yelling person, and he tried hard to be apologetic and articulate, but he was too drunk to manage much,” Denham said.

McGuire, who witnessed what he described as a “pretty hostile discussion” between Denham and another student, broke in and engaged Denham in what McGuire characterizes as a positive discussion about respect and living in community, a discussion that has continued via email. “Part of this is just about being a good neighbor,” McGuire said. He describes the interaction between Denham and the students at the party as “respectful.”

“Part of this is just about being a good neighbor.” --Will McGuire ’10

“He respected our wishes just as we respected his,” McGuire explained.

In addition to Denham’s complaint, other faculty members have also expressed concern that the Court promotes unhealthy, disrespectful interactions among students, citing student complaints that they have trouble concentrating on work during weekday evenings due to noise from Court parties. Associate Professor of English Annie Ingram, for example, explained that, even though she has heard complaints about Patterson Court throughout her 14 years teaching at Davidson, she has been “particularly struck this year by conversations with students who are critical of Patterson Court and make those criticisms from within. These are students who are in fraternities and eating houses.”

Ingram is disturbed by comments that she hears from students about the events that occur on the Court: gender stereotyping, disrespectful behavior, alcohol abuse, binge drinking, date rape, and the hookup culture. According to Ingram, students who complain to her about the Court are not claiming to be against drinking or sexual activity but against people who engage in these activities without thinking about the consequences of their decisions.

“I would like to challenge students who want things to change to make it happen.” --Annie Ingram, Associate Professor of English

She pointed out that, according to the College’s Statement of Purpose, “[t]he primary purpose of Davidson College is to assist students in developing humane instincts and disciplined and creative minds for lives of leadership and service.” “Is Patterson Court doing that?” she asked. She suggested that alternative structures, like themed co-ed eating houses, might eliminate some of the destructive behaviors that seem to characterize interactions on the Court.

When asked about the Court, President Tom Ross stresses the positive contributions that the Court makes to the College. “I think the discussion around the [Confederate] flag was a high moment for Davidson. That’s a strength of Patterson Court, to bring people together in a formal way through organizations,” Ross said. He did add, though, that the “substantial display” of beer cans oftenFound on the lawns of courthouses after parties is disrespectful to staff members whose job it is to dispose of them. During the faculty meeting, Ross said that the concerns about community that both faculty and students addressed in recent conversations struck him. He indicated that he would arrange for a campus-wide discussion of campus life, including the Court. He indicated that the discussion would involve faculty members as well as students. “The faculty’s role [in discussions concerning student life] is nebulous, poorly defined, not structured,” Ingram explained. She encouraged students to remember that the College is very receptive to student initiatives: “I would like to challenge students who want things to change to make it happen.”

Council Rulings:
- 2 Guilty
- 1 Not-Guilty
- 1 Not-Guilty

Lecture, from page 3

Power urged the audience “to acknowledge the world we’re in, not the one we wish we were in” before presenting four recent “tectonic shifts” in international affairs. The first is what Power considers a substantial erosion of U.S. influence. She said that the ways our nation dealt and continues to deal with Iraq and Katrina have made the United States less influential than it was in 2000. Other shifts that she described included the rise of China and the strong assertion of its ideologies and the rise of “petroauthoritarian” countries—like Iran, Sudan, and Venezuela—that do not share the United States’ values. Lastly, Power contended that current threats to the U.S. constitute a new kind of threat: “transnational threats.” These include such issues as global warming and immigration. Power emphasized the importance of convincing other countries to join us in confronting these problems. “Not to say,” she said, “that the sun is setting on American promise, but it’s important to take into account this new dynamic.”

Power also addressed the issue of exiting Iraq, which she considers a prerequisite for re-establishing U.S. leadership and what she called “the cost of doing law and morality a la carte.” She said that the United States needs to be more careful about gaps and inconsistencies in policy. “It’s difficult to promote law and hold ourselves above the law,” she explained. Power also argued that the United States must rehabilitate its values and posed a question: “Are we asking about human consequences in negotiating base rights?” Power characterized the United States’ democracy promotion agenda as misleading. She argued that the country needs to “root engagement abroad less in elections and more in freedom from fear.”

The lecture did not focus solely on negative aspects of U.S. policy, however. According to Power, U.S. citizens are now realizing that they must contact their representatives in order to take ownership of their roles in foreign policy and to inform the government of what they want done. “I think—and hope—that people saw Samantha Power as evidence that a life of ideas...does not have to be dry and cerebral.” —Chris Alexander, Professor of Political Science

Power also maintained that the United States has a history of self-correcting. “There is still an eagerness to see America as a light on the hill,” she concluded. Dr. Alexander hopes that students observed beyond the constructive criticism of American foreign policy at the lecture as well. “I think—and hope—that people saw Samantha Power as evidence that a life of ideas, thinking, speaking, and writing does not have to be dry and cerebral. It can also be exhilarating and inspiring,” Alexander said. “Ideas, expressed well, can move lots of people. That’s an awesome power, and a liberal arts education helps you wield it effectively.”

The Bank of America lecture series is supported by an endowment from Bank of America. The next speaker, former Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development and Georgetown professor Andrew Natsios, will deliver a lecture entitled “How Aid Supports American Leadership” on Nov. 7.