THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2007 7

Your Weekly Dose of Procrastination

Across

1. Make the putt

5. Cruise around town

10. Eurasian mountains

14. Fe

15. Thorny beauties

16. Russian representative assembly

17. Sport site

20. USA bird’s baby

21. Taste or touch

22. Image

Betsy or Dian

Silver __

By Cara Woodroof
Staff Writer

What would someone who finds artwork generally obtuse say when the director and curator of the Van Every/Smith Galleries, Brad Thomas, asks “What did you think when you saw all this [the sculpture garden] after you got back?” I found myself answering that art is not one of my fortes and that I hadn’t formed an opinion of the sculptures. If you are in the same boat as I am, here is a breakdown of the sculptures’ history and significance.

Antony Gormley created the human-esque statue “You” in 2005. Born in 1950 in Hampstead, England, he is currently one of England’s most famous sculptors. In his works, Gormley tries to capture how it feels to be a physical body in the world. He uses his own body as a mold for metal casts to create his sculptures, which often depict the human body standing, sitting, or falling.

To make the casts, Gormley wears a skin-tight material all over his body, while an assistant covers him in plaster. Gormley breathes through two straws placed in his nostrils. Once the cast is finished, Gormley pours hot iron into the form. The iron cools and solidifies into a sculpture like “You.” He aims to convey that the human body is a physical place, a piece of the material world that an individual experiences. Gormley describes his work as “an attempt to materialize the place at the other side of appearance where we all live.”

Other works by Gormley include “Angel of the North” (1998) and “Another Place” (1997). “Angel of the North” is stationed in Gateshead, England, and “Another Place” resides on Crosby Beach near Liverpool.

One can observe the various depressions and protrusions in Gormley’s body as the sun hits the sculpture from different angles. This effect suggests that the body changes over time as circumstances change. “You” appears as if the underlying body were wrapped in tight rubber, giving the sculpture a restrained look — it cannot get out of its tight space, as people cannot come out of their own skins.

Rust gives “You” its orange color, and, if one observes the sculpture more closely, one can see the fine lines that complement the shape and nature of the sculpture. “You” is solid iron, not hollow. Thomas believes the solidity gives the sculpture a more firm, determined personality, as though the sculpture says, “I’m here.”

William Tucker created “Homage to Rodin” in 1999. Born in Cairo in 1935, he and his family moved to England two years later, where he lived until he moved to the United States in 1978. Tucker is an internationally renowned sculptor. His early works are geometric formations of steel or wood that convey unrealistic effects of weight and gravity. He sees contemporary sculpture “as preserving and protecting the source of mystery, of the unknown, in public life.”

Thomas pointed out that if one stands at a 90-degree angle to the library and looks at “Homage,” one sees a human face in the peaks and craters of the sculpture’s surface. It is a grimacing face; Thomas even used the term “battered.” The blue-green rust pouring over the sculpture matches the rust-like moss growing on a nearby tree. The gradual rusting process is intentional; the sculpture changes over time. The different ways sunlight hits “Homage” also contribute to its change over time.

Hailing from New York City, the famous American minimalist sculptor Joel Shapiro created “Untitled” in 1995. Minimalism is an artistic movement of the 1960s and 70s that emphasized stripping an artistic object down to only its essential parts. Shapiro’s early works were small sculptures of chairs, ladders, houses, or bridges placed in large gallery spaces. His later works were larger and less concrete in nature. Artists like Auguste Rodin and Pablo Picasso influenced his modernist works. Interestingly, all of Shapiro’s works are named “Untitled.”

If you take a break from slaving over your latest problem set to check out these sculptures, you will see beauty and a glimmer of insight into the art world.

29. One of the girls

30. Silent Spring subject

31. Sleepover challenge

32. Falcon feet

35. Sport site

40. Shot from afar

41. Word of woe

43. Still up in the air (abbr.)

46. Part of L.A.

47. “Get lost!”

49. Recluse

51. Tiff

53. Squeeze (out)

54. Controversial Cuban boy

55. Baptize

57. Sport site

62. Diminutive ending

63. Similar

64. Sign

65. Bodies of water

66. Multi-runner race

67. Obligation

Bro or sis

Retirement acct.

Rejections

Leg joint

Common knight nemesis

Hamburger buns

Volcanic creations

Bulletproof gear

OH time zone

Nature’s freshest milk container

Destroyed

Grinning

Mourn

Unclothed

Climb the mountain

Singer Stewart

Classroom quiz

Fire starter?

Foot fashion

Grasps

Downhill racer

Recipe amts.

Primate

Promotional giveaways

Surfing the web

Melee

__ vera

Tug

Look around

Greek city

Miss the deadline

Mitochondrial section

Comic strip Beetle

Sicilian mount

Creates

Escargot creature

__ dot

Clever enough

Path

Sticky substance

Flightless bird

Fish catcher

Each and every