5 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cheating on significant other made Honor Code violation

SEE PAGE 2

Ugly student hides behind big sunglasses

Masturbation and Solitaire Nights advertised on new

Debtors prison sentences to replace library fines

SEE PAGE 7

SAE stoplight short-circuits, party confusion ensues

SEE PAGE 2

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Editors:
Dan Killian
Alex Hoyt

Is a good sport: Whitesnake

Used the phrase “for many moons” in all seriousness at Convocation: Chris Burton

“Dude, we have wives now.”
-One class of ‘97 alum to another on why they could not stage an impromptu pledge meeting Saturday night.

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

THE GREAT SCHISM

‘miss each other”

September 19, 2007

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2007

THE COMMONS STUDY
Light Side vs. Dark Side

According to a recent study by the Anthropology and Sociology Departments at Davidson College, Vail Commons is home to two
distinct species.

The study, which began in 1947 as a subset of the Milward Jenkins Experiment, has focused on the particular habits,
customs and mating rituals of Davidson students indigenous to Vail Commons. The data the study found is startling.

Vail Commons is divided into what anthropologist Beauford Stevens calls “dueling hemispheres of xenophobic pride.”

One side, believed to be descendants of Cain, are territorial by nature, preferring the fertile land of the “Light Side”
nearest the Powerade watering holes, troughs of flavored taters and REAL ICE CREAM machines. Jingoistic and primordial, they are frequently
found performing loud chants as well as the occasional ululation. The millennia have been cruel to them, however. In a
ruthless display of evolution, only the strongest of their clan have survived, fending off the sun's inexorable rays of fury
through the development of the backwards, upside-down, preferably neon-tinted visor.

Men of the Light Side move in herds, sport lanyards and cut-off cotton garments, and constantly reference mysterious idols such
as “Scarface” and “Mr. T.” They are aggressive, irritable, and endowed with remarkable bodily-kinesthetic abilities. Female tribal rituals include constantly
applying shiny ointment to the lips.

Both genders typically possess a phenomenal grasp of pop culture, a vocabulary of 200 words or fewer and a proclivity
for extroversion most frequently manifested in catcalls and the ritualistic chanting of “Chips.”

The other clan, descended from Cain, roamed the plains of Commons both inside and out for generations before finally settling
in the shadowy cradle of Vail's western valley, commonly known as “The Dark Side.”

More nomadic and balkanized than their eastern counterparts, inhabitants of the Dark Side display an apathetic individualism evidenced by their
curious wardrobes of tweeds, tie-dye, clogs, and Umbros. Eschewing all things new or of the “mainstream,” Dark Siders show particular
reverence for analogue watches, vinyl records, used automobiles and dirty underwear.

Deities of these pagans include their moon-god, “Donny Darko,” their god of rodents, the Modest Mouse, and their Lord of
the Dance, Moby. In their religion, when one dies, he is ferried across the River Styx in the Death Cab,
whereupon he will meet Cat Stevens.

Pastimes of these natives include Parchesi, observing the Circle of Life and writing poetry on one's blue jeans. The mood
of these people can best be described as morose, especially when un-caffeinated.

Hundreds of years earlier, a more happy-go-lucky branch of Dark Siders strayed to the very great outdoors, where they have
been reveling in hammocks and trees ever since.

Unlike the Light Side, where inhabitants are cast away after their early twenties, old age and wisdom are encouraged here.
Beards are a sign of knowledge, most commonly worn by the elders who periodically hold gatherings on the dank fringes
of the Dark Side.

Disciples of a one e.e. cummings, these troglodytes scorn capitalization, evidenced by the all lower-case title of their cave-publication, libertas.
Typically they abhor capitalism, disregard hygiene and display a genuine fear of science.

Asked to elucidate the differences between her own breed and their Light Side counterparts, Dark Side denizen Daphne du Drossier
‘08 said, “They are Philistines, cannibals, fundamentalists, and goons. Many moons ago they would occasionally cross the Great Divide to
watch their Panther demigods on the Television Set. Now they only come to steal our cattle and our deep-fried eggplants
on the day of the Commons festival.”

Though athleticism rarely manifests itself amongst the dwellers of the Dark Side, it is a rare treat for the anthropologist
to watch one, flushed from a meal of oats and honey, tossing the ‘bee in the equinoctial languor of his
native surroundings.

“To everything turn, turn, turn”: long-time Dark Sider Littleberry Derby strums a post-dinner melody on the lush knoll behind Vail
Commons.

Stevens, who has spent the last 10 years immersed in the culture of Vail Commons, claims he has never seen
anything like this. “Not a trace of symbiosis here,” he said. “These two species won't go anywhere near each other.
Similar to creatures found in the Galapagos Islands, they have mutated separately, and quite frankly it is a phenomenon of
science that they have managed to coexist.”
