n 12 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2007

Maxwell sets record as Field Hockey ends season

By Sports Information:

Kayli Maxwell '08 set the school record for career goals with her 39th career goal against Appalachian State.

By Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats field hockey team made individual history last week, but the team also proved unable to overcome its
problems with consistency, losing to Radford, a team it had beaten earlier in the year.

The week began with a 3-2 win over Appalachian State. The night belonged to Kayli Maxwell ’08, who became the
school’s all-time leader in goals scored when she gave her team a 3-0 lead in the 41st minute off an
assist by Eleanor Cowley ’08. It was her 39th career goal. With the new record, Maxwell becomes the Wildcats’ career
leader in assists, points, and goals.

“I’m very excited about the record,” Maxwell said. “It was a great game because every part of the team got
to see the ball. We also worked the ball up the field very well.”

“It is a great honor for Kayli,” Head Coach Ginny Sutton said. “I am extremely proud of her, and of
the entire senior class. They are really stepping up at the end of the season and looking to finish out
their careers on a high note.”

In the fifth minute, Jen Willis ’08 connected with Catherine Ransone ’08 to give Davidson an early advantage. Cowley then
scored with three minutes remaining in the first half off an assist from Ransone to put her team up 2-0.
The Mountaineers launched a rally, with goals from Alicia Larkins and Katie Pierce in the 51st and 61st minutes, respectively,
but the Mountaineers could not spoil the historic occasion for the Wildcats. Appalachian was unable to capitalize on advantages of
15-12 in shots and 7-4 in penalty corners. Christa Goeke ’10 had a strong performance in goal with eight saves.
Denise Adams made three saves for Appalachian, which fell to 3-15 with the loss.

Unfortunately, the Wildcats were unable to summon the same result on Saturday, falling to Radford 3-0 on Senior Day.

“It is a great honor for Kayli... I am extremely proud of her.”
Head Coach Ginny Sutton

The Wildcats and Highlanders played a scoreless first half before Megan Longtain scored in the 47th minute to give Radford
the lead. Allison Mowry scored on a penalty stroke in the 61st minute and assisted on Longtain’s second goal five
minutes later. Each team had 13 shots, but Radford owned a 10-5 edge in penalty corners. Goeke had six saves
for the Wildcats. Stephanie Wisniewski and Jennifer Wisniewski split halves for Radford, making six and three saves, respectively. The loss
dropped Davidson to a regular season-ending 9-8 record, Radford improved to 6-12. Davidson will now travel to Stanford for the
NorPac tournament in Palo Alto, California Nov. 1-4.

Soccer extends unbeaten streak to four with OT win

BY SAM DIAMANT
Senior Staff Writer

Just a few weeks ago, after a 4-2 loss to UNC-Greensboro on Oct. 9, it seemed that 2007 might be
a lost season for men’s soccer. The team, full of young talent but lacking in consistency, had shown flashes of
brilliant play against top teams such as California-Berkeley and South Carolina. The Wildcats never put a full 90 minutes together,
though. Their season had been plagued with critical mistakes at the most inopportune times. Sitting at 2-11 after the Greensboro
loss, 2007 figured to be a frustrating campaign.

“When you are playing well, everything seems to go your way... but when you are playing poorly nothing goes right,”
Jon Bassett ’08, who has anchored a strong Wildcat defense this season, said.

Now unbeaten in their last four contests, the tide appears to be turning for the Wildcats. Things are looking up
for Matt Spear’s team. And their most recent victory, Saturday against SoCon opponent Wofford, was the latest indication. Davidson had
a number of near missesIn the first period, in the 24th minute, Seth Kulaskera '11 beat a Wofford defender with
a hard left cut and played a ball to Robert O’Donnell '10. O’Donnell scored, but the goal was called back
on an off-side call. Forward Tom Lavan '08 also had a promising scoring opportunity in the 32nd minute with a
shot that missed wide-left. The Wildcats controlled play throughout the half, but lapses late into the period almost cost them.
With less than five minutes remaining, an unmarked Wofford forward missed a shot from inside the 18-yard box. Then, with
less than one minute remaining, a dangerous pass-back into the box left a Wofford forward one-on-one with Bassett, who was
able to win the ball and safely clear it.

Wofford continued its offensive attack into the second period. They scored in the 60th minute and threatened again a few
minutes later. Wofford was unable to add an insurance goal, though, as a Terrier forward’s strike hit the right post
after an open-net opportunity. After that miscue, Davidson battled back on offense. Alex Caskey '11 controlled the ball from mid-field,
beating a number of Wofford defenders before playing a ball to midfielder Charlie Reiter '10 near the top of the
box. Reiter’s shot was deflected wide-right.

Finally, the ’Cats netted the equalizer in the 77th minute of regulation. Aaron West '08 curled in a long cross
from the left side. Lavan found the back of the net on a low shot first-touch. “Aaron did well to
beat his defender and whipped in a great cross,” Lavan said. “All I had to do was redirect it into
the goal.”

Alumni Field hosted a capacity crowd to see the Wildcats defeat Wofford in overtime over Parent’s Weekend. The intended clear
was mishit, finding the back of the net in an own-goal that ended the contest. Only one conference opponent, College
of Charleston, remains on the schedule for the last three regular season games. A pair of tough non-conference matchups against
ACC teams Duke (at home, Oct. 31) and undefeated national #1 Wake Forest (away, Nov. 6) finish off the regular
season. After the recent success against conference opponents, the ’Cats look to continue to build confidence going into the SoCon
tournament. “To continue getting results we just need to have guys step up every night and make plays that change
the game,” Lavan said. “We aren’t afraid of anyone in this conference.”

Player of the Week: Kayli Maxwell '08
Kayli Maxwell '08 ended the regular season by breaking the school record for career goals with the 39th of her
career. She now holds the records for the most career goals, assists, and points in Davidson field hockey history.

Lavan nearly scored again at the end of regulation. Caskey beat a number of defenders and worked the ball left
to near the end-line. His cross was deflected into the net by Lavan, but the officials ruled the play illegal.
“It was at an awkward height for me to finish it, so I had to lean forward and the ball
glanced off the top of my shoulder into the side-netting,” Lavan said. “The referee called an intentional handball on what
I thought was a legal play.” Lavan was penalized with a yellow card for the intentional handball, and the game
went into overtime. With 38 seconds left in the first overtime period, a Wofford defender headed West’s corner into his
own goal for the winner.

Play of the Week: Soccer wins on overtime own goal
With the score tied at 1-1, the Wildcats made a final drive to the goal with under 15 seconds remaining.
Tom Lavan '08 punched the ball into the goal but was called for a handball. Ten minutes later in overtime,
Aaron West '08 sent a corner into the box where a Terrier defender headed into his own goal for the
winner.
