Whale print on Crew pants mistaken for bird crap
SEE PAGE 7

Psych major and confusing psych textbook lack significant relationship
SEE PAGE 8

Health center sees rise in flu, Kierkegaardian despair
SEE PAGE 2

Laundry facility
SEE PAGE 2

THE YOWL
Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Editors: Dan Killian, Alex Hoyt
Consigliere: Count Flav

Recently joined Bill Buckner and General Pickett as one of history’s greatest screw-ups: Drake long-snapper

Living in Switzerland, wearing Pampers: Coleman Hubbard

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

Give me that nut!

Shampoo Disguised as Conditioner, Body Wash

A recent investigation of the hair product industry has rocked the nation, according to Cosmo and other reliable sources. Shampoo
giants Pert Plus, Tresemme, and L'Oreal have all been indicted by DEA inspectors. Conclusive evidence shows that these companies’ alleged
shampoos, conditioners, and body washes all come from the same vat of warm liquid goo.

Lather-gate, as the scandal has been termed, came to light last Friday off of an insider tip. The other major
finding of the investigation is that Irish Spring Sport, reputed to be the natural Celtic cleanser, actually contains highly diluted
Elmer’s glue, bottles its products in Hackensack, and bears no legitimate connection to the Republic of Ireland. It was also
found to exacerbate dandruff.

UBI ORTA
November 14, 2007

Study Shows Friday Actually the Ironic Play of the Week: Camouflage Conspicuous

William Jahnes III '09 was forced to wake up after only two hours of sleep in order to go to
his 8:30 a.m. class last Thursday. This was due, quite simply, to his outfit. A member of ROTC, Will Jahnes’s
uniform makes him an easy target for professors. Jahnes is required to wear his unique camouflage uniform every Tuesday and
Thursday. The garish green and black fatigues render him extremely conspicuous, making it impossible not to notice his absence in
his early morning class, The Vietnam Experience.

Letters to the Editors

From a broad

Hey everyone at Davidson! I'm a broad in Paris, France. I like baguettes, sleeping with artists, and strolling by the
Capitole de Toulouse at night. My lovers include Gerard Depardieu, Laurent Blanc, Nick Carter, and the milkboy, Pierre. The lovely
Ms. Claudine Cargot, a broad and well on the Left Bank. I listen to Euro-pop and love that new hit,
“I'll never break your heart” by le Backstreet Boys. I have pin-ups of them all over my loft on the
Boulevard Saint-Michel, just off the Latin Quarter, where one can score un peu la "sniffer.” Anyway, I'm writing because I'm
actually always going to be a broad, and I wanted to know if any eligible bachelor from Davidson wanted to
come over and get to know me, a broad, for a semester or maybe even a year! Write me back
if interested. But I don’t want any of these platonic pen pals, okay? Au revoir!

Not from a broad

Hey guys. I want to clear something up. I'm not a broad. Don't even think that I am a broad.
I live in Ryburn with all my boys and we throw down every weekend here at Davidson. This dude is
definitely not a broad. I really don’t know how people could think I’m a broad. You people are clearly confused.
Broads are into cosmetics and...money and stuff. What do I do for fun? Oh, the usual. I bowl. Drive around.
The occasional acid flashback. I’m fairly into white Russians. Sometimes we play North-South, which is like the Civil War but
with kegs instead of cannons. Same amount of casualties though. I digress. I’ve had a rough month. I'd really appreciate
it if people would stop mistaking me for being a broad. And if whoever pissed on my couch would get
me some money, that would be great. Later, guys.

UBERTAS NOT TO BE CONTINUED ISSUE WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2007

The Davidsonian

Greatest Day to be a Wildcat

Numerous campus organizations will be forced to make some critical changes to the literature that has been produced stating, “It's
a great day to be a Wildcat!” According to a new study conducted by the Sociology Department, many days, but
not all days, are great days to be a Wildcat. The study, which involved nearly two-thirds of the student body,
reported, for example, that Monday is not necessarily a great day to be a Wildcat.

One participant in the study, senior History Major Chris Hoffens, commented, “False: Mondays are not a great day to be
a Wildcat. Mondays are a great day to be a hermit and go to the library and think about your
lack of time management skills concerning working over the weekend. Go put that in a brochure.”

Head of the Sociology Department Dr. Michael Cook reported that Friday is actually the greatest day to be a Wildcat.
“Friday is really when the magic happens. Throughout the week the students are more like little tame kittens. But then,
all the studying stops for the big night and everyone turns into the wildest of wildcats all over campus. It's
truly something special to watch them evolve.” Dr. Cook then let out an awkward and unsuccessful growl.

Many students expressed frustration at being patronized by such Admissions Office catchphrases. “What are we, like, six-years-old?” Economics major Dirk
Chuzlewit ‘08 said. “No matter what day of the week it is, I’m going to fail my econometrics problem set,
lose a recently bought pen and suffer from post-Commons indigestion, if I don’t have my lunch money stolen by those
Phi Delts.”

“In fact, I’ve never felt particularly thrilled to be a Wildcat. I prefer to dwell on the futility of true
love, the absence of a god in this existentialist void and the certainty that we will all die alone.”

Mary Baldwin Obliterated by Men’s Basketball Team

A pre-game shot of the Mary Baldwin team, which was losing 164-5 to the Davidson College Men’s Basketball team when
the game was abandoned late in the second half.

In the largest margin of victory of any sporting event in NCAA history, the Davidson College Men’s Basketball Team trounced
the Mary Baldwin Women’s team by over 150 points last Monday night. The game was a scheduling mistake, Mary Baldwin
Coach Edward Hillmore said. He had curiously outfitted his team in Victorian era frocks with the intention to compete against
Hollins College.

It is the first time in any basketball competition that a team would still have lost were its score raised
to the third power.
