6

By SAMANTHA TALLEY
Staff Writer

Davidson’s Theatre Department’s production of “Be Aggressive” began way back last spring. When Pete Schild ’08 decided he wanted to direct a play, he explained, “I was one of only two students eligible to direct the Fall Studio Production. After the professors granted me the Studio slot, I began reading scripts. I searched far and wide for three good plays that I could present to the committee as actual proposals for the fall production.” Eventually, Annie Wiesman’s bittersweet pom-pom-packed comedy struck a chord with the enthusiastic Schild.

Schild explains, “We chose ‘Be Aggressive’ based on its relevance to today’s society and life at Davidson and of course the resources that we as a Theatre Department have at our disposal.” The play’s plot takes on some very weighty issues. Schild explained: “Laura, the protagonist, loses her mother just before the story begins. Of all the characters, she undergoes the most difficult journey as she searches for an answer to the pit of emptiness in her heart that used to be her mother’s place.

“She becomes hell-bent on filling that space with cheerleading, but in the end, she must face the fact that there is no filling it. Laura learns to let go, to cherish the memories of her mother, and to move on with her own life.” Although the subject matter is serious, the play itself “is by no means a tragedy.” “Be Aggressive” is above all a comedy. Wiesman wrote the play to emphasize the comedic, 

Ask Audrey!
On the state of dating at Davidson
By AUDREY
Guest Columnist

How many times have you heard about the lack of a dating culture on our campus? Or how many times have you had a question about relationships but didn’t know who to ask? Have you ever wanted to know why men or women do what they do? The Ask Audrey column will cover all aspects of relationships, dating, and intrapersonal etiquette.

My column’s first topic is one that’s near and dear to my heart: the dating atmosphere (or lack thereof) at Davidson. Yes, we all know about the ultra-serious relationships that lead to marriages and the hook-up culture that can begin with one or 10 too many drinks, but do people actually date here with the hope of getting to know someone new and potentially interesting? I don’t think so.

There are many reasons that students might find dating difficult: “I am too busy with school work,” “I am not confident enough,” “Does he even think I’m cute?” But let’s get real! The fruits of a dating culture greatly outweigh the anxiety that comes from the fear of one. What isn’t nice about having someone you care about on campus? We might illogically fear the break-up or even the first conversation, but let’s live in the moment and enjoy all the potential relationships and friendships around us!

Before we all go around and discuss promoting a dating culture, let me define what that is. A dating culture supports the idea of asking someone out on a date or simple get-together with the sole purpose of getting to know someone new or expanding a relationship you already have. A dating culture allows people to meet new people and, in that process, look for a potential girlfriend or boyfriend. A dating culture goes beyond seeing a cute girl at one of Warner Hall’s parties and to focus on the tragic events surrounding the characters, and to focus on the complex resolution of problems. Thematically, the play addresses the characters’ ability to cope with love.

Putting the production together has been quite a journey for members of the Theatre Department. As the director, Schild assumed responsibilities not normally taken on by a student. “I made all of the final casting decisions for the show, but this was not an easy task because while auditioning is a fundamentally flawed system, it’s the only one we have,” Schild explained. He believes that he ended up with a truly remarkable cast. Directing the show has been an unforgettable experience for him. “The most enjoyable part hasbeen watching the story come to life. People love theater and having a crush on her. Why don’t you ask her to have coffee? I will explain later how to approach this task without being too forward and creepy. Or, girls, when you see an adorable guy at a party, collect your confidence and go find a way to meet him. It will answer your questions about striking up a conversation with an attractive person without feeling awkward, help you handle anniversaries, talk about problems or sex. I want to discuss the very first stage of the potential relationship: The Crush. There are many types of crushes: the guy with the girlfriend, who is hot to look at anyway, the senior totally out of your league (which is not true. No one is out of your league if you play a good game), and the single girl/guy you really would like to get to know better. Let’s work with the latter. As a single woman, one thing that really brightens my day is when a cute guy gives me a smile or when I meet someone new and appealing. But how do you go about having a healthy crush that can really develop into “something”?

Cheerleader Maret Seitz struts her stuff in front of the rest of the team. Even when they have research papers and midterms and presentations to worry about, they still dedicate themselves to creating good art with the full knowledge that they will receive nothing in return,” Schild explained. So come to the 900 Room at 7:30 p.m. Nov 14-17 or 2:00 p.m. Nov 18. The cost is $6 for general admission and $4 for faculty, staff, seniors, and students. Schild concludes with a final thought and wish for the audience: “Theatre is about learning. I hope that our audiences laugh, cry, and above all enjoy themselves. I want them to experience the journey that Laura must take and the relief she finds at the end of this journey and ultimately walk away from the production having discovered something about their own life.”

A very important rule I have been stringently following is to avoid Facebook! Yes, it is a great source to see if your guy or girl is single, but, when it is used exceedingly, it gets creepy and also unhealthy. It is bizarre when you know all about the person when you first meet him because of what you have imprinted into your memory from his activities, favorite movies, and “About Me” sections. It is much healthier to get to know someone in person! Also, don’t go EXTREMELY out of your way to see or run into your crush. Yes, nothing may be tremendously out of our way on this campus, but, if you are taking multiple study breaks to run over to the basement of Sloan in order to buy a drink from the soda machine because your cutie does his or her work there, resist the temptation! Even though we hope for the best, it is up to fate to decide if you will see him or her (Check out the movie “Serendipity” if you don’t believe me.) You also need to have enough confidence.

See Audrey, page 7

He serves as a volunteer firefighter and is THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, Nov 14, 2007. Jeremy’s typical schedule runs from 8 a.m. every Sunday. When I asked him if the long hours and tantalizing scents of baking pretzels and grilled wraps make him hungry, he humorously said that the food “is not that appealing when you are around it. Clients have dropped their salmon on the ground. The worst thing I have seen was when I dropped a bottle which broke. When Jeremy is not working long hours charging meal plans or counting change, he is responsible for everything from driving the vehicle to manning the hose to put out fires. He’s been a firefighter since May 27. Jeremy is also an avid Braves fan and a history buff, and he plans on studying.