6

Opera not as scary as you might think
By KATIE MILLER
Perspectives Editor

A friend’s spontaneous invitation to accompany him to the opera on Saturday evening elicited from me a curious, but decisive, yes. Having never been to an opera, but being an ardent admirer of theatre, the decision was an easy one, and I was set for a new experience. The opera in question was Charles Gounod’s “Romeo et Juliette” at Opera Carolina in Charlotte, and I felt fortunate to have such a familiar plot for my first experience, since I knew I would not understand the language (French).

Prospective audience members should be aware that the opera is three acts instead of the play’s five and that, while numerous changes to Shakespeare’s plot were made for the opera, it retains the general storyline that we love from the original. In fact, Opera Carolina even abbreviated Gounod’s opera, which is probably a good thing, considering that the cast was still bowing three hours after the curtains opened.

My expectations drew mainly from repeated viewings of “Pretty Woman.” Needless to say, in the minutes I had to get ready, I donned a black dress and pearls, thinking of Julia Roberts’s evening gown and jewels. Because I wasn’t sure if the relaxed dress code of today’s society would apply to Opera Carolina, I decided to play it safe. It came as no real surprise, however, that when we entered the theatre, the audience’s attire ranged from casual to formal, something that I think makes opera more approachable to today’s public.

Hesitancy to attend the opera due to the language barrier is needless; the theatre projected English subtitles above the stage. As excited as I was to be able to follow along, I have to wonder whether the projections deterred my attention from the stage too often. It was more enjoyable to watch the stage and deduce the meaning of the lyrics from the actions and highly emotional staging. The beauty of the music and the singers along with the grandeur of the stage were lovely enough not to require subtitles. Richard Gere told Julia Roberts that she would be able to understand the opera despite her lack of Italian; the real comprehension is emotional and found not in the lyrics but the music.

I found the casting of Mercutio and the Friar most engaging, and I enjoyed whenever either of them made an entrance onstage. The addition of Stephano, an adolescent friend of Romeo, was charmingly played in the operatic tradition by a woman. However, my least favorite cast members were the leads: Romeo was not quite the dashing romantic we expected from Shakespeare, and his voice failed to captivate compared to the other male singers on stage. Juliet, along the same lines, was less than inspiring. That is not to say that the lovers were dreadful; quite the contrary. The general spectacle of the performance left the greatest impression on my memory of the evening. My theatre major companion and I were envious of Opera Carolina’s enormous budget.

The disdain with which people view the performance art is unfortunate. The sheer talent I witnessed was enough to convince me that opera is well worth the sacrifice of an evening on Patterson Court. Friends who warned of boredom after hours spent listening to high notes and lovers’ serenades were pleasantly wrong. I found the experience very approachable yet elegantly reminiscent of romantic notions I have always held. “Romeo et Juliette” may be the first opera I have had the opportunity to enjoy, but Opera Carolina impressed me enough that I fully intend to make attendance a habit. If you’re having second thoughts about viewing Davidson’s production of Gilbert and Sullivan’s H.M.S. Pinafore on Nov. 10 and 11, the emotional power and beauty of song that can be experienced at the opera is something that should be experienced at least once, and at the very least you'll be able to do a decent job of imitating Adam Sandler’s Opera Man character.

Check out SoAlive! art gallery for workshops, spiritual health
By CAROLINE WOOD
Staff Writer

Davidson students treading the well-beaten path to Summit may have noticed a stylishly bare, unmarked storefront among the gnomes and ATM machines. This somewhat mysterious (or at least under the radar) establishment has a surprisingly interesting purpose and a story behind it that you probably have not heard. The bare storefront hides the SoAlive! Gallery, and the forces behind its inception were Mary and Eric Vogen, a Cornelius couple who answered the call to share their passion for faith, spirituality, and inspired living with the community. They decided to follow these passions with their work in a non-profit organization dedicated to creative, enriched living. Last February, their efforts resulted in the opening of SoAlive!. The gallery features unique art exhibits,and the gallery also houses workshops, lectures, and programs for spiritual seekers and anyone eager to learn. Each of the Gallery’s diverse and unique programs is designed to inspire people to live fully and purposefully, as well as to awaken their spiritual, physical, mental, and emotional health. The Vogens believe that the best avenues for such awakenings may come in unconventional packaging, explaining that creative pursuits can affect lives just as much as studious sermons. Many of SoAlive!’s programs also pair music, art, and personal expression with philanthropic causes bigger than individuals alone. Last May, the gallery hosted a photography exhibit entitled “Out of Africa” featuring the work of Doug Vinez, a photographer and pastor from Lake Norman. The exhibit benefited the Mwandi Christian Mission in Mwandi, Zambia. Proceeds supported the work of the mission’s hospital, school, and AIDS counseling center. Despite the gallery’s spiritual direction, it has hosted a wide variety of events focused on improving quality of life, from a writer’s workshop for amateur writers hoping to be published to healthy eating workshops and CPR classes. SoAlive! has also established its own relationship with the College, co-sponsoring author Marilee Pierce Dunker’s visit to campus in September and teaming up with the Lilly Programs office to offer the Vision Wheel vocation workshop free of charge to interested Davidson students. You never know what the Vogens will use their unconventional gallery for next, but we can certainly look forward to more joint events with the College in the future. Although the Gallery is still somewhat new to the area, the positive message and spirit of its programs have already begun to make significant changes in the community. So the next time you stroll down Main Street, consider peeking in to check out the Gallery’s next art exhibit or workshop or, if you have some free time, stop for a chat and listen to the unique perspectives the Vogens offer on the world in which we live. Whether you are an art major or just need a break, you won’t be disappointed.

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, Oct 24, 2007

Students enjoy alternative breaks
By Cara Woodroof
Staff Writer

This year, since a record number of people showed interest in taking an alternative break, the Community Service Office decided to offer one more trip this Fall Break than had been planned. To prepare for the trips, Alternative Break coordinators Amy Killian and others handled the logistics of the trips. The money raised could be used in any way they wanted. This year, Killian and Case tried an application process to give students a fairer opportunity to participate. Killian emphasized that these trips are not only about doing community service but also about making sure that the service is both “intentional and meaningful.”

Christie Mason and Philip Ruzycki led a trip to Tuscaloosa, Alabama, where they stayed at the University of Alabama. There they worked at Myrtlewood Elementary School, a school with a 50% poverty rate. Davidson students painted an educational ocean mural, landscaped the outside of the building, and worked on a planetarium with the intention of enriching the education for the children within that community.

Anna Drake and Athan Makansi led a van trip to Piedmont Biofuels, home to the world's biggest biodiesel co-ops. The co-op is located in Pittsboro, NC, a 900-person town about one hour west. Piedmont Biofuels creates biofuel from waste oils, such as the oil byproduct of fast-food restaurants, which students had the unfortunate responsibility of cleaning. They also mud-plastered a hut that houses a biodigester, a machine powered by manure that breaks down the byproduct of biodiesel production. In addition to cleaning out barrels of oil and putting mud on huts, the group kicked back at the Shakori Hills Grassroots Festival.

Libby Hubbard and Drew Patterson led a group to Asheville, NC to the Jewish Community Center. They worked with the accessibility department of the Center's Mountain Housing Opportunities, an effort to create affordable housing in the area. For two days, they worked to complete a ramp for a house. On the third day, they took a tour of the Mountain Housing Opportunities office and learned about the inner workings of the organization.

Nancy Waldrop and Davis Greene led a group to Washington, D.C. where they took part in a program called Urban Plunge, put on by the National Coalition for the Homeless. The Davidson group spent 48 hours living like homeless people. At night, they slept in normal resting locations for homeless people. Each student had only a bag with a blanket and layers of clothes, but no money. During the day, pairs of students walked the city and interacted with the homeless. Waldrop said the most difficult part is accepting money from another person.

See Breaks, page 7