THE DAVIDSONIAN

Politics, from page 1

The race is already heating up. “It is difficult to stay neutral as a political organization,” Johnny Cummings ’08, President of the College Republicans, said. “But we are currently in the process of setting up support services for candidate chapters around campus.” Republican candidate organizations at Davidson College currently include chapters for Mitt Romney and John McCain, with one for Fred Thompson in the works.

“I’ve been involved in public policy work for years—it’s in my blood. I’m looking forward to being involved in the debate. It will probably get me into trouble, but that’s okay.” 
—President Tom Ross, on sharing his political opinions with students

According to Cummings, much of the current focus for the Republican club revolves around assisting Fountain Walker in his campaign for Davidson Village Board, as well as increasing education on Republican issues around campus. Cummings and the rest of the College Republicans said that they eagerly await a Republican nominee, since their group has previously played an active role locally in election politics. In 2004, they supported George W. Bush on the road to his win in the Mecklenburg precinct, a normally blue region.

Young Democrats President Lauren Woodall ’08 said that the College Republicans and Young Democrats plan to watch the political debates together, to help increase the level of political education on campus. Woodall also outlined a plan to help ensure that all Davidson students register to vote by election-time next year.

As the Presidential race gains momentum nationally, here at Davidson, the campus political organizations will remain at the forefront of the community debate. President Tom Ross said that he is looking forward to some “serious,” “civil,” and “open” political discussions on campus. He said he believes that in 20 or 30 years we may look back and recognize this election as one of the most important of our time. When asked if he would share his political opinions with the student body at large, he joked, “Yeah, I’m going to tell them exactly who to vote for.” Ross seriously added, “I’ve been involved in public policy work for years—it’s in my blood. I’m looking forward to being involved in the debate. It will probably get me in trouble, but that’s okay.” Ross emphasized his hope that the campus and the country will engage in productive conversation. “I hope that it’s not reduced to 30-second clips and two or three issues,” he said.

College Republicans may choose to endorse.

Flag, from page 1

The Confederate flag conjures images of slavery, oppression, lynchings, and a dark period of Southern history that still affects the emotions of many. Others have expressed anger that Ross broached the controversial subject, some because they felt that the forum he chose was inappropriate and others because they viewed his remark as an encroachment on free speech and an attack on Southern cultural history.

Johnson explained that displaying the Confederate flag is a nod to the fraternity’s history. According to Johnson, SAE is the only modern fraternity founded in the antebellum South, and, when the Civil War broke out, 369 of the fraternity’s fewer than 400 members fought for the Confederacy. According to legend, the fraternity’s founder, Noble Leslie DeVotie, was the war’s first casualty. Confederate veterans revived the fraternity at the University of Georgia in 1865. As Johnson explained, “to many [SAE brothers], the Confederate flag serves simply as a recognition of heritage.” He also pointed out that Confederate flags surface on Davidson College every year but that the practice has never received such scrutiny in the past. “This was not the first time a Confederate flag has been on Davidson’s campus, nor is the SAE house the only building in which one has ever been displayed, but somehow our campus has avoided discussion of this controversial issue; it is our goal that this may be used as the starting point to seek out the various perceptions of the flag and to...promote a better understanding of our different interpretations,” Johnson said. “It is our goal that this may be used as the starting point to seek out the various perceptions of the flag and to promote a better understanding of our different interpretations.” 
--Andrew Johnson ’08, President of SAE

Leaders of Alpha Phi Alpha and the Black Student Coalition have declined to comment until they arrange a forum for discussion with SAE.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2007

SGA discusses laundry in sophomore apartments
By Katie GILLESPIE
Staff Writer

At last Thursday’s meeting, SGA nominated a king and queen for Homecoming Court and highlighted issues to be discussed this semester. SGA nominated Will Bryan ’08 for Homecoming King and Whitney White ’08 for Homecoming Queen. Although SGA may nominate independent seniors for the Court, both Bryan and White are senators.

SGA Vice President Davis Greene ’07 informed senators that he will finalize a ballot of issues the student body would like to discuss in SGA by next Thursday so that the Senate can approve it. The next step, according to Greene, is to decide “how to go about letting the campus know and actually discussing the issue.” Several senators suggested having a table with the ballots outside Chambers so that students who do not have a meal plan at Commons can still vote.

Mordecai Scott ’10 said that SGA plans to reserve buses for the basketball games against North Carolina State, Duke, and UNC, as well as for the SoCon Tournament next spring. Scott wants students to sign up for a spot on the buses when they buy their tickets for these games.

Robert Lassiter ’09 said that he met with the new Dean of Residence Life Patty Perillo to discuss options for filling the vacated laundry areas in Watts, Sentelle, Akers, and Knox. “I think her opinion and our opinion is that bike racks are the most feasible, but we’re open to other options,” Lassiter said. While students living in the sophomore apartments have asked that washers and dryers be put back in Akers and Knox, Lassiter said that the “general feeling is that it may be impossible to put them back.” According to Lassiter, the buildings were never supposed to have laundry facilities, and the washers and dryers consequently had to be installed in janitors’ closets. “They’re running all the time, and they’re not designed for that,” Lassiter said. Lassiter also cited complaints from the cleaning staff that laundry was piling up in the halls.

Head of the Auxiliary Services Committee Brandon Davenport ’09 said that his committee was taking over the issue and would have more to report at the next meeting. Jordan Wall ’10 suggested that senators write a resolution asking that laundry facilities be included in future sophomore apartment renovation plans.

Dean of Students Tom Shandley had a different suggestion. “I would push you not to push for renovations of the sophomore apartments,” Shandley said. “If you really want something, you probably ought to push for a new facility.”

Chair of the Academic Policy Committee Whitney White ’08 introduced her committee as a group that advocates for students regarding academic issues and discussed an upcoming series of student forums to determine which issues are high-priority. “I would push you not to push for renovations of the sophomore apartments. If you really want something, you probably ought to push for a new facility.” 
--Tom Shandley, Dean of Students

The committee asked SGA for a $50 allocation for pizza and drinks for the first of these forums this Wednesday. This Wednesday’s forum will focus on core requirements; student response will determine the topic of future forums. White also said the committee plans to start a web log accessible through Blackboard that will allow students to discuss academic policy. The committee is also working on a survey to go out in the spring.

Scott ended the meeting by asking SGA to consider allowing senators studying abroad to run for SGA positions. Scott wants SGA to discuss this issue at the next meeting.