16 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, April 9, 2008

Baseball suffers six-game skid in young season

By PATRICK MCARDLE
Sports Editor

The baseball team extended its losing streak to six games this last week, dropping a game to South Carolina, a
weekend series to Western Carolina, and a heartbreaking loss to Virginia Tech on Tuesday. The team’s record now stands at
8-19 overall and 1-8 in the SoCon.

The Gamecocks, ranked sixth in the nation with a record of 20-8 as of Tuesday, quickly took control of their
game against the Wildcats by plating seven runs in the bottom half of the first inning. Along with two Davidson
errors, two doubles by Reese Havens and a three-run homer by James Darnell gave South Carolina this comfortable lead. On
the positive side for the Wildcats, Matt Webb ’09 returned to the lineup from an injury with a hit.

On Saturday, Davidson dropped both games of a doubleheader to the Western Carolina Catamounts. Trailing 15-0 in game one, the
Wildcats finally broke their scoring drought in the sixth inning when Zach Kayne ’09 drove in Hugh Eden ’08. Davidson
drew three runs closer in the top of the seventh. Danny Weiss ’11 led off with a double, Tommy Piacenza
’10 followed with a single, and Eden homered to left field with two outs to make the score 15-4.

Unfortunately, Western Carolina got a run in the bottom of the seventh and scored six in the eighth to extend
the margin to 22-4. Davidson added three in the top of the ninth when Kayne tripled with the bases loaded,
but it was too late.

The second game of the set proved just as difficult for the ’Cats. Despite leading 8-5 in game two after
an Eden two-run homer and a Piacenza RBI, the Wildcats could not hold off Western’s five-run rally in the bottom
of the eighth. With a 10-8 advantage, Western would fend off the ’Cats in the ninth to seal the win.

In the final game of the weekend series, Western Carolina secured the sweep with an 8-4 win. Kayne performed well
from the plate, going three for five with two RBIs to lead the eight different Wildcat hitters who reached base
safely. Unfortunately, the ’Cats left nine runners on base and could not turn five Catamount errors into a win.

On Tuesday, Davidson fell 5-4 against Virginia Tech on a squeeze play in the bottom of the ninth inning. Pinch
hitter Steve Brumbry put down the game-winning bunt on an 0-1 pitch, scoring pinch runner Travis Willson. Eden and Brett
Shore ’09 both went 2-for-4 to lead the Wildcats offensively. Davidson took the early 1-0 lead on a single by
Kayne that drove in Eden. After the Hokies pushed four across the plate, the Wildcats tied the game in the
fifth inning. Chase Fitzpatrick ’09 and Weiss drove in Kayne and Shore to tie the score 4-4. Even though the
Wildcats put runners on base in the late innings, they could not bring them home, leaving the door open for
the Hokies’ last inning heroics.

Davidson plays The Citadel this weekend.

Tennis wins two as SoCon tournament nears

By MIKE FRONGELLO
Sports Editor

Zach Kayne ’09 went 3-for-5 with two RBIs against Western Carolina on Sunday, but the Wildcats lost 8-4. Following the
loss, the Wildcats returned home for a Saturday match with South Carolina State. The ’Cats returned to their winning ways
with a dominant 6-1 victory over the Bulldog team that came into the match sporting an 11-2 record. Davidson got
off to a strong start by sweepingAll three double matches from the Bulldogs. The doubles combination of Philip Compeau ’08
and Eric Noble ’10, Walker Lyons ’11 and Sam Burns ’10, as well as Simihaian and Jaffee all earned doubles
wins. Simihaian, Noble, Jaffee, Lyons, and Burns all notched straight-set singles wins in the Davidson victory. The wins marked the
10th singles wins of the season for Simihaian, Lyons, and Burns.

On Sunday, the ’Cats made the trip to Greenville, N.C. for a non-conference afternoon match-up with ECU. Unlike Saturday’s relatively
lopsided win, this match came down to the wire, but Davidson prevailed in the end with a hard-fought 4-3 victory.
Again, the Wildcats secured a doubles sweep of the Pirates, but the singles matches provided some dramatic battles. ECU scored
two straight-set victories at No. 2 and No. 3 to take the lead at 2-1, but Burns' straight-set victory tied
the match at 2-2 while the three other matches went into the third set. Meyers dropped his three-set match after
a tough fight, but Simihaian came from behind to post a 1-6, 6-4, 7-6 victory at No. 1 while Lyons
clinched the match victory with his 7-5, 1-6, 6-2 win. The Wildcats have now won six of seven as they
conclude Southern Conference play with a pair of matches against Appalachian State and 65th-ranked SoCon leader Furman this weekend.

The team of Flaviu Simihaian ’08 and Ethan Jaffee ’09 also scored an 8-6 win in No. 1 doubles for
the Wildcats in the overall defeat. The difficult defeat snapped Davidson’s four-match win streak, and the Wildcats fell out of
the ITA rankings. After dropping a 6-1 decision at 75th-ranked Elon on Wednesday, the ’Cats rebounded to score victories over
South Carolina State and East Carolina last weekend. The Wildcats’ record stands at 14-5 overall and 5-2 in the Southern
Conference following this week’s 2-1 effort.

Davidson entered the SoCon match with Elon one game ahead of the Phoenix for second place in the conference, but
the host Phoenix proved to be too much for the ’Cats. Elon took five out of six singles matches, with
Scott Meyers ’09 recording the lone Wildcats win at No. 5, 4-6, 6-1, 10-8. The singles win was Meyers’ team-leading
15th victory of the season as he improved to 15-2 and maintained his perfect SoCon record at 7-0.

“This is one of our bigger match-ups of the year against Furman this Saturday on Senior Day as we approach
the Conference tournament.” — Walker Lyons ’11

Flaviu Simihaian ’08 collected singles wins against both South Carolina State and Elon. SoCon match-ups this weekend. “This is one
of our bigger match-ups of the year against Furman this Saturday on Senior Day as we approach the Conference tournament,”
Lyons said. The SoCon Tournament is scheduled for April 19 in Charleston, S.C.

Player of the Week
Beaux Jones ‘08
Men’s Track
Hometown: Ruston, La.

LAY OF THE WEEK
Women’s Tennis Comes From Behind to Beat Boston U

The Davidson women’s tennis team fell behind 3-1 early in their match with Boston University on Saturday, but the ’Cats
responded with four straight wins to secure the 4-3 match victory. Virginia Berry ‘10, Michele Fanney ‘09, Meredith Skeeters ‘08,
and Kim Whelan ‘08 all recorded singles wins to complete the comeback as the victory was the program’s first ever
over the visiting Terriers.

Jones’ throw of 78 feet eight inches was good enough for first place in the javelin event at the Murray
Neely Invitational on the campus of N.C. A&T this past weekend. The victory was Jones’ first event win of the
season.
