4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By JULIA EDWARDS
Staff Writer

“Few books over the past decade have surprised and moved me as much as Terese Svoboda’s ‘Black Glasses Like Clark Kent’,” said a judge who awarded Davidson’s 2008 McGee professor the Graywolf Press Nonfiction Prize.

Last Wednesday, students, faculty, and community members had the opportunity to be surprised and moved as Svoboda read aloud from “Black Glasses Like Clark Kent” and her 2006 bestseller “Tin God.”

The McGee professorship is given each year to a contemporary American writer, and Davidson students are granted the opportunity to study under their guidance. While McGee professors have come from a variety of backgrounds, Svoboda is the first in 12 years to have published works ranging across the genres of novel, short story, poetry, nonfiction, and playwriting.

This semester, Svoboda is teaching “Writing Fiction I” and “Writing Fiction II” in which students read contemporary texts and are instructed in what Svoboda calls “an art form.”

“As a teacher, I am open to all varieties of expression,” Svoboda said. “I want students to open themselves to many different tools and to know what is available for them in the 21st century.”

When writing her latest book, “Black Glasses Like Clark Kent,” Svoboda used many different tools to piece together historical facts with her uncle’s personal story of his incarceration in a Japanese war camp after World War II. Svoboda said that combining personal accounts with the facts was a struggle. Many of the characters in the book were family members, so she had to be careful not to offend them. Working facts into the story was a struggle for Svoboda, who does not enjoy being tied down by historical truth. The first draft is always free of research for Svoboda so that she can narrow her research to fit a story where emotions are woven throughout.

The task of weaving the historical facts into her uncle’s personal account brought her to Japan, where she broke through the red tape of many American archives. But for Svoboda, her painstaking research in Japan is simply part of the process with which she has fallen in love.

During Svoboda’s Davidson stint, she is traveling to promote “Black Glasses Like Clark Kent” in eight cities around the country while continuing to write—like the short story she finished just last Sunday.

“Writing is just a habit for me,” explains Svoboda. “No, it’s more than a habit, it’s an addiction.”

“Black Glasses Like Clark Kent” is available in the Davidson bookstore, and Svoboda can be reached at tesvoboda@davidson.edu.

* * *

Terese Svoboda is the current McGee visiting professor. She has published works in many genres and is currently teaching the two “Writing Fiction” classes.

1/29/08 9:30 p.m.
Suspicious Person
430 N Main St.
An officer was contacted on the officer cell phone by a Davidson student in reference to a suspicious person she had seen at around 9 p.m. She had seen the subject, a white male, mid-twenties, in a blue car sitting at Glasgow and Main St. She stated that as she pulled in, the subject started talking to her saying “Hey Baby.” She stated that she just ignored him and kept on driving. She just wanted officers to be aware of the situation.

1/31/08 1:46 a.m.
Domestic Disturbance
120 Patterson Ct.
An Outpost employee contacted an officer in reference to a domestic dispute that was taking place inside the Outpost. Upon arrival, the officer heard a loud argument occurring in front of the Kappa Sigma House. The officer approached a male subject and a female subject while they were in the middle of a heated argument. The officer was able to get both parties to stop arguing and requested that the male subject stay with him while the woman returned to her dorm room. The male subject was cooperative and allowed her to walk to her dorm room unhindered.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2008

Housing lottery and recycling are at the top of SGA agenda

By KATIE GILLESPIE
Staff Writer

At Thursday’s SGA meeting, Director of Residence Life Patty Perillo discussed the upcoming housing lottery, and SGA Vice President Davis Greene ’09 introduced several campus environmental initiatives.

Perillo began the meeting by providing each senator with a copy of the housing lottery timeline. The process begins on Feb. 15, the deadline for theme hall proposals for Duke Dormitory and applications for the ecological cooperative house. Students interested in designing and living on a theme hall in Duke must write a proposal and submit it to Chris Alexander, Director of the Dean RuskProgram. These students must also have a faculty member willing to support the hall. There will be one six-person and two ten-person theme halls in Duke next year. Perillo said that two proposals had already been submitted, one for a world hunger hall and one for a hall centered on the lived experience of refugees. The proposal process is designed to correct problems that RLO experienced during last year’s process. According to Perillo, “some residents signed on just because they wanted to live in Duke.” This year, RLO is also responding to requests that it become more technologically savvy in the lottery process. Students will be able to fill out on-leave forms online, and the singles lottery will also be online. RLO will continue to allow sophomores to super cluster in order to encourage them to live down the hill. “It’s a really fun experience for sophomores,” Perillo said. “We’ve had no complaints about down the hill.”

Perillo then asked senators about their housing concerns. Blake Poole ’08 asked about RLO’s plans to reevaluate substance-free housing. Three years ago, SGA passed a resolution to study the issue in response to concerns that sub-free housing created what Poole called “a positive learning environment but a social stigma.” Perillo, who wrote her thesis on sub-free housing, said she planned to go through the lottery process gaining data on why students choose to live on sub-free halls. Perillo also addressed concerns about RLO not having enough housing for students returning from abroad. Last semester, 144 women and 90 men studied abroad. “The gender imbalance created a schism about how to house,” Perillo said. RLO housed some women in the townhouses in order to compensate for the housing shortage. Perillo said that there are currently 25 vacancies on campus because in December, some students decided to take a leave of absence, withdraw, or study abroad. Perillo said that RLO did not plan to allow more students to live off-campus. “Davidson is committed at its core to a residential college environment,” Perillo said. “We are required to have 95 percent of students living on campus.”

During the meeting, Greene also presented environmental policy updates to SGA. He confirmed that the College would be acquiring ten outdoor recycling bins, which would be placed outside of areas such as Chambers and the Union. The bins will look like trash cans but will have green tops that say “recycling.” Greene also said that President Ross had signed the Presidents’ Climate Change Agreement, which commits the College to buying as many green products as possible. The agreement also relies on a commitment from students. Davidson students will participate in Recyclemania, a ten-week competition with 400 other colleges to see how much they can recycle and reduce waste on campus. The competition started last Monday, but Greene said there was a rush to get the word out since professionally printed fliers had not yet arrived.

Senators also voted on a by-law revision to allow the United Community Action (UCA) to elect its vice president internally. The position had formerly been elected by the entire student body as a part of the Category II elections. Next week, SGA will vote on a proposal to revise the by-laws so that both sophomores and juniors can run for the position of Activities Tax Council (ATC) Vice-Chairperson. Currently, the by-laws only allow juniors to run.

SGA President Chris Burton ended the meeting by discussing his plans for a final discussion with the Board of Trustees last weekend. “I’m going to be talking about diversity in terms of how we can make Davidson a comfortable place so that the school reflects what we want and what the school is,” Burton said.

The breath smelled mildly of alcohol, and his speech was slurred. The officer requested that he go to his dorm and not attempt to make contact with the female subject until Thursday afternoon. The male subject agreed and went to his room.

2/02/08 10:35 p.m. Suspicious Person 209 Ridge Rd. Suspicious person reported approaching people on the cross-country trail in a non-threatening manner, but may be construed otherwise. To date, the only identifiers of the suspect are that he is a white male in his 40s, around 5’9” in height, 170 or so pounds. Campus police were alerted to an unknown white male of similar description sitting in a green Subaru wagon that morning around 7:30 a.m. The subject was wearing a sweat suit. Officers are to stop, investigate, and notify administrative staff if a subject of similar description is found and conducting similar acts until further notice. This includes checking cross-country trailheads and large parking lots.