THE DAVIDSONIAN

Obama’s view of Court unconstitutional

At last week’s presidential debate, Sen. Barack Obama explained that he “will look for those judges who have an outstanding
judicial record, who have the intellect, and who hopefully have a sense of what real world folks are going through,”
in selecting Supreme Court nominees. No one would question the first two qualifications. The third, while seemingly benign, is more
dubious upon further examination. The rest of his answer sheds more light on this qualification. He explained, “I think it’s
important to understand that if a woman is out there trying to raise a family, trying to support her family
and is being treated unfairly, then the court has to stand up if nobody else will.” While Sen. Obama is
right to demand redress for such a woman, he is wrong to suggest that providing it is the province of
the Supreme Court.

In our democratic republic, the Supreme Court is not a vehicle for social change. Rather, as Alexander Hamilton noted in
Federalist No. 78, the role of the Supreme Court is to “secure a steady, upright, and impartial administration of the
laws.” These roles, contrary to what Sen. Obama may think, are mutually exclusive. In rendering the judiciary a vehicle for
social change, Sen. Obama arrogates legislative power to unelected judges. After declaring independence from the tyranny of Great Britain, America’s
founders aimed to minimize arbitrary power in the new regime. Pursuant to this, the founders grounded government not in the
will of its rulers but in the rule of law. As John Adams noted in Massachusetts’ Constitution, this was to
be “a government of laws and not of men.” Limited by a constitution, the people, through their representatives, would pass
the laws to order society. In theory, though often not in practice, these laws would apply equally and uniformly to
all persons. As a result, persons, cognizant of the law, could order their lives without fearing arbitrary coercion from government.
Should they find themselves in court, they could expect that their disputes would be resolved on the basis of the
law and not on their identity.

To the extent that he wants the Court to “stand up” for “real world folks” who have been treated unfairly,
Sen. Obama would inhibit the impartial application of the law Americans have come to expect. Imagine a scenario in which
a “real world” person is being treated legally but “unfairly” by a “non-real world” person, whatever that means. If such
a case came before the Supreme Court, would Sen. Obama want it to impartially uphold the law and thereby fail
to “stand up” for the “real world” person? Or, would he advise the Court to dispense with impartiality in favor
of its social mission?

Sen. Obama arrives at this dilemma by misunderstanding the democratic nature of our regime. The people, inasmuch as their elected
representatives in the legislature have the power to establish law, are empowered to define “fairness” in keeping with the Constitution.
Given this, the judiciary will necessarily uphold fairness so long as it impartially interprets the law. Then, contrary to Sen.
Obama’s vision, a judge ought to take care to prevent his “sense of what real world folks are going through”
from obscuring the meaning of the law. In rendering the judiciary a vehicle for social change, Sen. Obama arrogates legislative
power to unelected judges and thereby confers on them the sort of arbitrary power (to define “fairness,” for example) the
founders sought to minimize.

Of course, laws are imperfect and sometimes fail to ensure fairness. And, of course, such laws ought to be changed.
Sen. Obama’s temptation to have judges affect this change when faced with unfairness is understandable. But, the rule of law
and democracy are too precious to be sacrificed at the altar of change.

Zach Bennet ’11 is a political science major from Lancaster, Pa. Contact him at zabennett@davidson.edu.

Education is answer to homophobia

WILLIAM ROBERT
Guest Writer

I applaud the recent publication of Ashley Semble’s article, “Homophobia is elephant on campus.” This elephant has been on campus
for quite a long time. I appreciate her calling attention to what she sees as a double standard regarding racial
and sexual slurs and the related but different prejudiced behaviors that motivate them. I write in response to this divide
that she highlights succinctly in suggesting, however dissonantly, that “gay is the new black.”

Gay can never be the new black. Sexuality, especially homosexuality, is tricky. It cuts across—and cuts through—distinctions between private and
public, between secrecy and disclosure, in a way that race or ethnicity does not. Unlike race or ethnicity, sexuality is
not (always) visibly discernible, at a distance or up close. My race or ethnicity is not something that I can
hide. But my sexuality is. It can be hidden, dissimulated, disavowed; it can go unclaimed or unacknowledged; it can remain
underground, shared only within a small, closed circle of family and friends. In this way, I could be gay privately
and not publicly. (One cannot say the same thing about race or ethnicity, which remains unavoidably public.)

This straddling of the private and public is, in part, what grants words like “faggot” (which remains, at least to
me, a gendered term) their currency. Sexuality is always, to some degree, an individual matter, since unlike race or ethnicity,
sexuality—especially homosexuality, bisexuality, or any queer sexuality—must be discerned, by an individual, through a series of processes that include inquiry,
introspection, recognition, identification and perhaps profession. Even if I am gay, I must acknowledge and accept this identity. If I
don’t do so publicly, then no one can “prove” that I am. On the other hand, no one can “prove”
that I am not. So, for example, if A maliciously calls B a “faggot” as a sexual slur, all that
B can finally do is deny the attribution. Why would A call B a “faggot” in the first place? One
reason might be, in a masculine context, to emasculate B. This emasculation involves a de facto feminization, which exposes sexism—latent,
perhaps, but still alive. In other words, to use “faggot” as an insult emasculates and feminizes in a single stroke.
But it does so only by depending upon a still-present gender binary that privileges masculinity over femininity. Though this binary
usually remains subterranean, it has not disappeared but continues to linger.

Why would (as Ms. Semble effectively describes) the college generate so much hoopla around a race-related or ethnicity-related incident but
not around a sexuality-related incident? Why don’t students receive “tsk tsk” emails every time that a man is hatefully called
a “faggot” or that a woman is hatefully called a “bitch”—or worse? That the “c-word” is referred to as such,
paralleling the “n-word” and the “k-word,” at least implicitly identifies these terms as related forms of hate speech. Of course,
the “f-word” is not “faggot,” perhaps because “faggot” is not or not yet hateful enough to be silenced in the
same way. However, it is hateful enough todo lasting damage and to generate destructive and self-destructive actions, as at least
one incident in Davidson’s own history makes clear. I mention gendered hate speech because sexism and homophobia seem intimately related.
Both remain rooted in the powerful cultural privilege still accorded to masculine, heterosexual normativity. Ms. Semble’s aim, it seems, is
to point out the elephant of sexuality to Davidson students, faculty, staff, and administrators. Building on her effort, I would
point out that this elephant has more than one side and more than one part. Along these lines, I recall
the fable of the blind persons who make incorrect deductions about an elephant based on insufficient information. The college, particularly
its administration, must carefully and thoroughly examine the entire elephant—after recognizing that the elephant is there. The first step is
admitting that there is a problem. As Ms. Semble rightly notes, “there’s no miracle cure for prejudice.” Indeed, there might
be no cure, no vaccine, to stave off prejudice. But education comes closest and is the most successful way to
minimize its symptoms, even into a kind of remission. The Davidson community should therefore take this remission as one of
its educational goals, as one of its ethical aims. Educating its community about sexuality and all that it can engender—ignorance,
misunderstanding, prejudice, hate, violence—should become an administrative mandate. Sexuality should become part of Davidson’s educational language, such that this language
and its use make it impossible to ignore the elephant of sexuality. I write this, appropriately, on National Coming Out
Day, a day devoted to education, to active, vibrant, vital intersections of sexuality, language, profession, acceptance—and love. It has not
been and is not easy to be gay at Davidson. But it ought to be easier at Davidson than almost
anywhere else. William Robert ’96 is a Humanities Postdoctoral Faculty Fellow at Syracuse University’s Department of Religion. Contact him at
wrobert@syr.edu.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2008

A plea for Obama
Sunny Lee
Guest Writer

Let’s cut to the chase. I’m an Obaman, and I hope you are too. But if you’re one of those
rare and prized undecided voters, there’s a reason I think you should swing our way. It’s not that McCain is
basically a wrinklier Bush, or even his much-criticized choice of the increasingly hapless Palin. I won’t waste your time spelling
out his errors in policy either—that’s what the media’s for, there’s little about it that isn’t out in the open
already, and frankly it’s boring as hell. My angle’s a little different. Consider this. Two centuries ago it was impossible
for blacks to be considered equal. A century ago it was impossible for women to vote. Fifty years ago it
was impossible for a dedicated mass of the powerless and disillusioned to make an enduring difference. And no less than
a year ago it was simply, manifestly, and irrefutably impossible for an upstart young black senator from Illinois to be
considered a serious contender in the presidential elections. Yet here we are, engaged now in what may possibly be the
single most historically significant—and theoretically the most implausible—election this country has ever seen. Something happened. But what was it? The
answer is much easier than you might think. The simple fact of the matter is that Obama exudes charisma like
Matthew McConaughey oozes clumsy sexuality. And contrary to what the conservative element presumes, this is far from a bad thing.
What is the main purpose of a leader? It isn’t to control, despite Bush’s best efforts. Considering how little practical
influence the President has on legislative matters, it isn’t even to direct national policy. It is, interestingly enough, to lead—to
inspire his or her people to achieve, to give them the courage to act as a nation. Yes, there are
mundane sides to leadership—papers to be signed and babies to be kissed—but the main and possibly greatest aspect of leadership
is being a symbol of the country. So why does the GOP seem to think that the fact that Obama
is so likable implies an incapability to lead? Obama may indeed be more style than “presidential experience,” as some love
to parrot—but isn’t it ironic that in such little time his “empty rhetoric” has already achieved so much where McCain
has achieved so little? Politics has always been about show business, and Obama is good at it. It’s true that
McCain has incomparable leadership experience in the military—but we don’t need a Bismarck. The effectiveness of cowboy diplomacy is fading
fast and if we are to maintain our position within the global community we will need a diplomat. The international
community has already fallen in love with Obama; his nomination alone garnered us more goodwill overseas than the last 4
years of failed diplomacy—a very real result from an allegedly unreal candidate. The conservative element in America has long been
the party of detractors, the voice of discouragement that has irresponsibly wielded fear—whether of foreigners, poverty, or just simple change—as
their primary political weapon. They are so accustomed to dealing in impossibilities that they are seemingly unable to understand a
campaign that doesn’t seem to mention any. Is it any surprise that their methods stand in such stark contrast with
Obama’s message of hope? It’s true, hope is a very vague thing, and it is my sincerest wish that Obama
does not betray it should he win—but its effects on the American people and the world at large have been
undeniable so far. So why do Republicans insist on dismissing Obama as a misguided dream? Because lobbyists don’t pay in
hope? Because it doesn’t translate well into statistics? No. According to conservatives, Obama is an impossible pipe-dream because politicians (except
the conservative ones) are all tricksters and liars. No way? It’s not news that all presidential candidates equivocate, but so
far only one of these two has proved to be any good at it. McCain’s campaign is composed of just
as much glitz and ambiguity as Obama’s; he’s just so much worse that it’s almost embarrassing to talk about. Seriously,
if I can’t trust him to not suck at something as simple as not appearing like a confused, disoriented liar
to Americans, how can I trust him with not appearing like a confused, disoriented liar as the representative of our
nation? The conservative element has always been the persistent voice of doubt content with dictating who can’t and who shouldn’t,
and McCain is no different: Rather than focusing on the future, he chooses to waste time on irrelevant issues of
the past like Bill Ayers. If he has his way, the question determining the outcome of this election will be
“what is it that we fear the most?” But come November, I invite you to ask yourself this instead: Will
this nation’s future be defined by the impossibilities that shackle us, or the ones we choose to defy? Sleep on
it. Sunny Lee ’11 is undeclared. He is from New York, N.Y. Contact him at sulee@davidson.edu.
