7 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Malagasy Connection
By ANDREW WHITEMAN
Guest Writer

Whenever I told people about my plan to go to Africa, I always got some reaction. Most of the time, the reactions included fear for my life or admiration of my bravery, both expressions of how apparently scary Africa is. Naturally, I was somewhat nervous to spend a semester in Madagascar in a cultural immersion program. I lived in three different locations, including a rural village, each with a different family. I took anthropology and language courses in French and Malagasy, Madagascar’s language, and also conducted an independent study project.

Over the course of the semester, I constantly battled stereotypes. I wanted to be at ease and have a true cultural experience but was apprehensive. I hated that I believed what people were telling me: Madagascar is dangerous. Inefficient. Poor. Unsanitary. Walking on the streets of the bustling capital, Antananarivo, made me nervous. People constantly heckled me for money, food, and clothes. My first reaction was to be distrustful of anyone who approached me. On the other hand, I was living in a culture very different from my own, and people also had their own stereotypes about me. Foreigners are a rare sight. People stared and laughed, and even babies cried when they saw me. I often got the impression that Malagasy people assumed that I was worth unimaginable amounts of money. I was even treated differently as an American as opposed to a Frenchman because the United States still represents the land of dreams and opportunity.

By CAROLYN ORTMAYER
Study Abroad Coordinator

Davidson College encourages study abroad. By graduation, about 65% of a class will have studied abroad for credit sometime while a Davidson student. For the class of 2007, it was 74%. Students usually study abroad during the junior year for a semester, but sometimes during the sophomore year and/or during the summer after the freshman, sophomore, or junior year. The cost of semester study abroad programs is usually comparable to the cost of being on campus, while financial aid and scholarships can be used for any Davidson study abroad program that takes place during the academic year and for approved non-Davidson programs that take place during the academic year.

Davidson currently has 11 study abroad programs and five affiliated programs in 22 countries around the world. In addition, about 200 Davidson students a year study on approved non-Davidson programs. An obvious benefit of study abroad is experiencing another country or culture. Study abroad usually results in personal growth, including maturing, having increased confidence, learning new problem-solving skills, and gaining a broader perspective on the world.

My rural village home-stay experience was particularly helpful at dispelling some of these prevailing stereotypes. I lived for five days in Analamaitso, population 100, in the home of a Malagasy family. This experience was quite daunting at first for both the villagers and me. The first few days were full of awkward stares and bad attempts to speak the local dialect. We were all confused. Soon, I realized that I would have to find other ways to establish connections. I started to participate in daily life. I worked the land, shelled peanuts, helped with cooking, and most importantly got to know people. I found that even with a language barrier, there are many other ways to establish connections. Simply by giving a high-five, playing with children, or making any possible attempt to speak the language, I could make friends.

Things were going well until my host mother asked me if I wanted to go for a walk around a few other villages. I said yes, but soon regretted the decision after being surrounded by groups of people, eager to hear what the white man had to say. “Oh great,” I thought. “I am being taken around to be shown off. I am totally on display—I hate this!” But as the experience continued, I had a realization: Everyone was eager simply because they had never met anyone like me before. The only impressions they had of foreigners were based on stereotypes, if that. At that moment, I saw that I had to let go of my own insecurities. I started to understand that the whole point of this experience was to get to know people, to share a laugh, to be myself.

On the last night of my rural village stay, my family and I shared a meal together.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Techniques, becoming more open-minded plus improving language and communication skills. It is sometimes possible to receive Davidson credit for core courses, major, minor and/or concentration credits. Students also often take courses that are not offered at Davidson, such as Aboriginal History in Australia. A Davidson student’s first step in the study abroad process is to attend a Study Abroad General Informational Meeting. During the exchanged gratitude for the experience we had together, my host father, André, said something that deeply touched me: “We want you to know that we don’t take anything for granted.” I was so happy that he believed, like I did, that we had gotten past some of our differences. When put into a place like a rural village, the differences between cultures seem stark, but one must find the similarities. I had the best time during my semester in Madagascar sitting around the dinner table and conversing with my host families. If I learned a little about someone else’s perspective, then I made progress. I thought a lot about the idea of progress while in Madagascar. Yes, some of the stereotypes are true: It can be dangerous, dirty, and inefficient. When foreigners try to approach such problems, however, they must see beyond biases which are most likely not accurate. My semester taught me that the first step in addressing global issues is to have a genuine conversation with someone from another culture. 

In the spring of 2008, these meetings take place on Mondays at 1:30 p.m. and on Thursday at 4 p.m. through Reading Day (May 8th). There is no need to make an appointment; just show up at one of these meetings that last about an hour. A student can then make an appointment for an individual counseling session with Carolyn Ortmayer, Study Abroad Coordinator, or Ann Brindisi, Study Abroad Counselor. Students intending to study abroad during the fall of 2008 must let Davidson know by March 15, 2008 by completing an “On Leave” form. For the first time, this “On Leave” form is online. The Davidson Study Abroad Office stands ready to help students find appropriate study abroad programs and to answer questions about study abroad. We are located in Duke Residence Hall. Go Global! Study Abroad!

Practical Guide to Read when I first arrived in the United States after College: Semester Abroad. Most of the students skimmed through its pages or opted not to read it, figuring they would experience, rather than read about, any culture shock. I was one of those students. I don’t know whether reading that packet thoroughly would have helped me or not, but I was unprepared for the sheer impatience, unfriendliness, and meanness of the people I encountered. Maybe because I was black; those first few days after landing, I loved that feeling of acceptance in New York. That is not to say that everyone in New York was unfriendly, but that I had become used to Malian treatment. In Mali, people are so warm-hearted; it wouldn’t be unusual for a stranger to pass me and greet me, or a taxi driver to spark up a conversation with me, or someone to walk a quarter mile with me to direct me to a hard-to-find location. 

My classmates and I soon realized that no matter how bad our pronunciation of Bambara words was, the Malian people appreciated that we were trying to learn their language. By my first few weeks, I felt like I had become a part of the community. I realized early on, after getting lost, the kindness of the Malian people. I had boarded the wrong bus and slowly got each word out. As my French improved, I learned some Bambara, and it was exciting to learn a completely new language that I could immediately practice that night at home. Soon I began greeting people only in Bambara. Instead of “bonjour,” I was able to say “ni chez.” When I used Bambara, many people thought I was just another local. I adapted to the blazing heat, eating out of a communal bowl, and the mosquitoes that threatened to give me malaria.