6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Duchess, from page 5

In one scene, the Duchess welcomes a crowded room of guests to her country home for a party. She enters
the ballroom from a balcony above the grand staircase and addresses the group from above.

Like the audience watching the film, all eyes of the party-goers fixate on the Duchess. She makes them laugh with
her jokes; they are completely captivated.

For some reason, though, Georgiana fails to capture the attention of her husband, played by Fiennes.

“You dream of a world of...fantasy”
-Ralph Fiennes as William Spencer, Duke of Devonshire

“Well, you know what they say,” one guest comments to another. “The Duke of Devonshire’s the only one not in
love with his wife.” The Duke’s inattention and infidelity should wreak havoc on Georgiana, but the Duchess remains composed. She
tries to meet the Duke on a level playing field and achieve her own goals.

The audience sees the worst side of the Duke: he is arrogant, cold, and despicable. He frequently showers more love
and affection on his hunting dogs than on his wife.

Like Knightley, Fiennes shows mastery of his role.

Right from the start of the film, Fiennes allows the viewer to hate his character. The actor aptly combines cold
stares and quiet anger to force a sense of palpable tension in almost every scene.

Disgust towards the Duke continues as his crimes add up: he has an affair with Georgiana’s only friend, Lady Bess,
and later threatens to blackmail Georgiana. Throughout the film, however, Fiennes continually refers to Knightley’s character as “Gee.” This affectionate
nickname seems quite out of place in their marriage, which otherwise lacks any sign of intimacy whatsoever. The Duke is
clearly out of touch with reality.

There are a few shots where the director almost mocks the emotional distance between the Duke and Duchess. At their
large dining table, the couple sits at opposite ends, separated by over 15 feet of table space. Being so far
apart, the two must yell to carry out their sparse conversation.

A central theme of duty arises in “The Duchess.” Georgiana wrestles with questions of duty towards her country, her husband,
and, ultimately, duty to herself. She yearns for the freedom to choose the direction of her life, and more specifically,
not to have it decided by her husband.

“You dream of a mutual fantasy of a changed world,” scoffs the Duke.

Indeed, Georgiana’s ideal of freedom for all, including women, came at a period in history when the notion of equality
remained merely an idea.

This film aims to please a large audience. Politics and love are juxtaposed. These two topics are complicated enough on
their own. When they unite in “The Duchess,” the complications naturally ensue.

Though at times weighed down by subplots of the Whigs and Tories, “The Duchess” nevertheless provides a wonderful escape to
a period of beautiful clothes, lavish parties, and decadent lifestyles.

Despite these roadblocks, Georgiana finds her own happiness. The audience leaves the theater satisfied. The Duchess takes the challenges presented
to her and makes them work to her advantage.

The first image of “The Duchess” remains: Georgiana confidently walking, leading the way.

Cabinet no. 4 by Dust Furniture

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2008

7

Several sharp jurors picked up this testimony in 2 “ee for pasta’s complex and obscure

Arts & LIVING

Seminar, from page 5

For those unfamiliar with Spiegelman’s work, he is a former cover illustrator for “The New Yorker” and wrote the Pulitzer-winning
graphic novel “Maus.” “Maus” is the tale of Spiegelman’s father, a survivor of the Nazi Holocaust—the catch is that the
Nazis are cats, the Jews, mice.

The next project on deck for us is one in which we must devise and execute an original method of
distributing text. The example given in class was of a poet who wrote poems on the inside of matchbook covers
and left the miniature ‘books’ at bars for strangers to discover and enjoy.

This week, Davidson students can expect to see our class projects appearing in various manners and locations throughout campus. Our
texts may intend to surprise, provoke thoughtful discussion, or simply make a reader smile.

“My goal is to respond creatively to the etymological roots of the word ‘disseminate’ as I attempt to disseminate an
original text,” Kate Wiseman ’09 said.

My own project aims to engage our collective cultural consciousness of entertainment culture and to examine to what extent that
collective experience will attract possible readers: Will pop culture references entice people to look at a common story or mythology
again and with a new perspective?

Whatever the purpose of the publicity of the text, active reader participation will determine the success of the project.

Explore one of Europe’s best-kept secrets — Stockholm
