8 Basketball Ticket Policy

With our third straight SoCon Tournament win and a spot at the NCAA Tournament against Gonzaga, Davidson basketball enthusiasts have
good reason to be thrilled right now, but limited ticket availability has still managed to put a damper on the
student body’s high this past week. On Monday morning, a total of 434 students arrived at Baker Sports Complex to
receive their lottery ticket. A randomly drawn number (the lucky 440363) determined the cluster of 126 tickets to be awarded,
as well as the 44 people able to sign-up for the waitlist.

Yes, only 126 student tickets. Many of us were shocked by how low the number was. However, when taking into
consideration how it handled the situation, the Davidson Athletics staff performed well under pressure they have not encountered in the
recent past. Few students know that the NCAA only offers a certain number of tickets to each competing school for
purchase, regardless of school enrollment. Davidson bought the max number of seats possible, and then set up a hierarchy for
purchase at the school with universal ticket holders receiving top priority. According to Jason Sabow, Davidson gave more tickets to
students than Wisconsin did last year. If we compare the enrollment numbers of each school — roughly 42,000 to about
1600 — then we students probably shouldn’t complain.

For the most loyal fans, the biggest problem this year resulted from game location: Raleigh. Just two hours away, more
Davidson students, as well as universal and season ticket holders, were willing to pay the money, make the trek and
attend the game. Those who may have driven to Tampa, to Little Rock and, let’s be honest, even Omaha, were
not guaranteed tickets because of low demand.

Under similar circumstances in the future, it doesn’t seem that there would be any way to better the ticketing process.
The most frequent complaint this staff heard from students was that there was no opportunity to get an edge over
other students, no way to wait in line or even camp out for tickets distributed on a first-come, first-serve basis.
However, had Davidson chosen to go that route, students doubtfully would have been camping out just in case, beginning even
before the NCAA bracket was revealed, and if Davidson continued its March Madness streak, in upcoming years, lines might have
begun to form at times well before Selection Sunday.

Some students offered another critique, suggesting that seniority ought to play a role in the decision process. After all, underclassmen
may get another chance to attend an NCAA game. But with the game in Raleigh, would we really want the
majority of our 126 tickets to go to seniors? This solution would have also excluded many of the most dedicated
fans of the three lower classes.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl

Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Katherine Miller

News Editors
Alissa Curran & Chris Moore

Perspectives Editors
Arts & Living Editors
Jennies Errington & Caroline Wood

Yowl Editors
James Boswell & Alex Hoyt

Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Patrick McArdle

Photography Editor
Ben Ellinor

Copy Editor
Gretchen Hoffman

Business, Advertising, and Circulation Manager
Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Jamie Hofmeister

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182; are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The
Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00 per year.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19, 2008

The Secret Life of Bobby DesPain
DANNY LANGLEY
GUEST COLUMNIST

I must admit: I have quite a few regrets. I regret my Tommy Hilfiger phase (even if it was technically
my school uniform). I regret my indie phase when all I listened to was the Raveonettes. I regret that time
when I was talking about Certain People and Certain People were right behind me. But my main regret is that
I have not yet befriended Bobby DesPain. Because if I had, I would surely have sat him down to a
nice cup of joe the Wednesday I last received my Davidsonian and said:

“Bobby. Bobster. Bobbalicious definition. Stop it. You know you need to stop it. I mean, this is a guise, right?
A character? Some Andy Kaufman-esque stunt that— when you finally admit this whole uber-right wing, wacko, factless, tactless stance is
a bit— we’ll both soil ourselves laughing at how everyone at Davidson College fell for it?

“Because you’re starting to sound like a less credible Ann Coulter, and that’s saying something. Although that may be a
compliment, since most people think she’s also playing a character. You’re just quoting things such as ‘If substance were water,
the Democratic campaign would be a desert,’ to point out the absurdities of the extremist right-wing viewpoint? Right? Right?

“Because why else would any sensible human being assert that only the Republicans are holding legitimate political discussion? I mean,
that’s isolating roughly half of the politically active in America. It seems rather obscene and almost blasphemous to assume that
the Democratic viewpoint is starkly un-American just because it differs from your own. And, also, you’re totally joshing about the
whole ‘United States saved the world’ thing. I mean, you’d have to be. Of course, that’s you making fun of
the whole ‘world police’ bit that many conservatives pull.

“I mean, I’ve given you a lot of leeway.In the past, I totally stood up for you when other people
questioned what you said, saying, ‘Hey, man, don’t harass Bob-o. He’s a true comic genius.’ But I have to admit,
I started screaming, ‘Aw hell no,’ once I read that, ‘[the] Republican campaign is centered around ideas,’ as opposed to
the Democrats. After I calmed down, I thought about it more and then whipped out the ‘Hell no’ again, because
that was just so ridiculous; such a ludicrous statement that the only words allowed out of my mouth were ‘hell’
and ‘no.’ The Democratic campaign is not based on ideas? Though they may not be discussing ‘real ideas’ like ‘taxes,
terrorism and freedom,’ which, and call me Anne Heche, they have actually probably touched upon once or twice, the Democratic
campaigns have in fact even gone so far as to discuss other ideas, perhaps in the ‘unreal’ region, like civil
rights and federal debt.

“Although, I must admit, I thought it was so cute when you said that Clinton and Obama are pretty similar
because of their parallel ‘socialized’ healthcare initiatives for two reasons. So, when are you going to lift the veil? You
know, let everyone know you’re actually a registered Democrat?

“First of all, whoa, DesPain au Chocolat. You know we are not living in Cold War America, right? We’re not
fighting the Reds. Don’t whip out the ‘socialized’ card to scare American teens. It isn’t going to work. I mean,
Canada’s a democracy. And secondly, should we compare and contrast the vastly different Huckabee and McCain campaigns? I mean, just
look at the way they are both basically trying to capitalize healthcare.

“So, when are you going to lift the veil? You know, let everyone know you’re actually a registered Democrat? That
the poster over your bed is actually Chelsea Clinton? Because I want to be around when everyone realizes Bobby DesPain:
Absurd Political Commentator is actually Bobby DesPain: Absurdist Wit and Comedian.”

Danny Langley ’10 is an English major from Lynchburg, VA. Contact him at dalangley@davidson.edu.

Spitzer compromised his marriage, honor

Eliot Spitzer entered into an agreement with his wife when he said his vows on their wedding day. While wedding
vows may not hold any sort of legal status, they do shed some light on the character of a man.
A man who breaks his vows is a man who has forsaken his family. If he cannot uphold his marriage
vows, what vow can he uphold? How can a man be expected to have honor in any other facet of
life, public or private? A promise of faithfulness to one’s spouse is not that hard to maintain. How can a
man without enough honor to uphold his marriage vow be able to be a congressman, governor, or president? Could you
ever trust an adulterer enough to allow him to represent you in Congress or to the world? Could you ever
believe that he would have your best interests at heart when he neglected those of his family?

Eliot Spitzer did not simply have an affair. An affair is inexcusable, but he catapulted past that. He bought a
woman. He spent up to 80,000 dollars to have sex with a prostitute in a hotel. This from the same
man who came to office with the objective to “transform our government so that it is [as] ethical and wise
as all of New York.” If all of New York is sneaking off to Room 871 at the Mayflower Hotel
to sleep with a prostitute, Eliot Spitzer has succeeded. However, since most of New York was rightfully disgusted by its
governor’s actions, clearly he fell well short of his goal.

The truth of the matter is that Eliot Spitzer was never an honorable man. He often used his political power
to intimidate and harass the innocent. It was a surprise that only Wall Street cheered at his demise. It is
unfortunate that his demise came with such great cost to his family. Had Eliot Spitzer not bought a prostitute, but
merely had an affair, should he have still resigned? Adultery is not a crime, but is it just a private
matter? What place does the private life hold in public life? Should private affairs not be considered in determining whether
a candidate is worthy for office? Should only their public actions be considered? Does it matter who a candidate’s friends
are? Does it matter who their pastor is? Does it matter who their spouse is? Does a run-in with the
law matter? Does it matter whether a candidate believes in God? All of these things matter. The private life is
instrumental in measuring a candidate. In public, of course, every candidate is on his best behavior, but how he acts
in his private affairs shows true character. In public, Spitzer was fighting prostitution. In private, he was enjoying prostitution. It
is easy to say that adultery has no bearing on how well a congressman, governor, or president might govern, but
would you feel safe knowing that the individual in charge of protecting your interests cannot uphold the most basic of
oaths? Adultery is not like a car wreck. Accidents happen. But adultery is not an accident. Spitzer decided that his
own instant gratification was worth more than his honor.

Bobby DesPain '11 is undeclared. He is from St. Louis, Mo. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.
