5 - THE DAVIDSONIAN

Social insecurity SEE PAGE 1

Crappy resume leads to job in Career Services SEE PAGE 7

Chaucer scholar friggin bored to the root with this shite SEE PAGE 4

Wireless Blanket not fit for a hobo SEE PAGE 2

Recent study shows that when you fart sitting Indian-style it goes straight to your face SEE PAGE 2

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Honor Section Editors: James Boswell, Alex Hoyt Staff Writers: Alex Greening, Andrew Carson

“I’m not into masterpieces. My favorite movie is Blade 2.” - Ev N

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

THE SHELI MANNING 2 UBT | would have made a sexy chick.

UBERTAS ISSUE February 6, 2008 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2008 sapere The Davidsonian™

Schlitz to sponsor Jacobi G. Middleman Fired Again, Files Suit

Blackout Belk Arena

Ever since the Men's Basketball team's brief appearance in the Top 25, Davidson Athletic Director Bill Dunphee has been searching for new and different ways to attract the national spotlight. That effort continues on Wednesday night, as Schlitz Malt Liquor has agreed to sponsor the home game against Elon.

THE BEER THAT MADE MILWAUKEE FAMOUS®, McKillop’s favorite postgame brew

The night has been dubbed “Blackout Belk,” continuing a tradition that dates back to 2006. At this particular game, each fan receives a black t-shirt upon arrival, resulting in a completely “blacked-out” arena. Ideally, the sheer darkness will strike fear in the opposing players and force them into nervous, sloppy play.

The new sponsor, however, adds an entirely new dimension to the event. The contract stipulates that Schlitz will host a tailgate starting at noon in the Baker parking lot, provide incredibly cheap drink specials throughout the day and night, and conduct a half-time promotional contest in which inebriated students attempt to dunk with the aid of those super-springy trampolines.

“It is our hope that encouraging our students, faculty, season ticket holders and heck, even children, to ‘black out,’ will turn Belk Arena into one of the most intimidating home courts in college basketball,” Dunphee said.

Certainly, aggressive drinking has helped the ‘Cats before. Students filled the streets of Charlotte when tailgating before the Chapel Hill game, and then carried the party inside, inspiring the team to near victory over the Tar Heels. That night, of course, ended in a violent 40-person brawl outside Bobcats Arena. Police Chief Fountain Walker has assured us that such a brouhaha will not be repeated.

“We expect close to 5,000 people at this game, which, according to Davidson's Risk Management policies, requires 2,000 police officers on hand.”

In addition to Schlitz, other sponsors include Mike's Hard Lemonade and Jungle Juice.

PROGRESSIVELY SMALLER TITLES SERVE TO CAPTURE READERS’ ATTENTION; MOMENTARILY DISTRACT NAIVE READERS UNDER THE GUISE OF ELABORATION UPON ORIGINAL HEADLINE WHICH WILL NEVER HAPPEN. HA!

List of Really Backhanded Comments Received on Papers

“Some good ideas, but you kind of write like a pirate. B-/C+”

“A-/B+”Sorry, I was drinking heavily and on a lot of uppers when I graded this. C+  
“You are very good at stringing together very bad points. C-”  
“You'd be a lot cuter if you took out that nose ring and came by my office hours more often...”  
“You remind me of the young Trollope. Not really, but I’ve always wanted to say that.”

Fed up with a lifetime of short stints of employment and numerous career changes, Jacobi Middleman has finally decided to fight for his right to work. Middleman gets shafted again. On Tuesday he filed a wrongful termination lawsuit against his former employer, the Union Café. Middleman can't remember the last job he held down for more than two months, and he is quick to blame his lack of job security and history of exclusion on his unfortunate last name. “My entire life I've always been the first to go,” Middleman explained. “Left off the kickball team at recess, blackballed from my fraternity, cheated on by every girlfriend, and now this.”

According to the former self-styled “quesadilla maestro,” the Union Café fired him for the most mundane of infractions. Middleman claims he was let go for refusing to wear the Café-endorsed sneaker, all-white Keds. He prefers Asics, and he's not going down without a fight. He has hired former heavyweight student attorney Joseph B. Adams to represent him. “It was simple Economics, not a footwear disagreement,” Café manager Marty Edgerton explained. “Cutting him out just made the most sense.”

Townie Gets Town Nomination for SGA  
Milford Beckett, an area man who has lived in Mecklenburg County since his birth in 1936, announced Tuesday that he planned to join the race for the position of Student Government Association President. A press release cited his motivations as: demonstrated capability in leadership positions, a disdain for change, and a concern that “those college brats are going to spill their soy milk and falafel sandwiches on my favorite chair at Raeford's.” Beckett feels that his campaign platform will appeal to Republicans and Townies upset with the volume of Court parties, as they make it “damn near impossible to enjoy a good episode of Matlock.” Proposed changes include replacing behind-the-desk work/studies with internships at local auto garages and the dismantling of the Free Speech Board. Pabst Blue Ribbon would become the “official brew of Patterson Court,” and “Lights-Out Davidson” would initiate an 8:15 p.m. cut-off of electricity across campus. “If elected, I expect I'll give those silver-spoon Northerners a hearty ass-whooping,” Beckett wheezed. “If not, I'll just go back to my house on Thompson Street and suffer through the rest of my retirement by scaring kids off my lawn and giving out Tums on Halloween.”

Sweet article, Barbie DesPoon SEE PAGE 8  
Health Center Staff sick with flu SEE PAGE 8