THE DAVIDSONIAN - FRANCISCO FIALLO Staff Writer

In the wake of First Night Down, the Student Government Association (SGA) focused its attention on the alcohol policy and
its enforcement on campus. Dr. Patty Perillo, Associate Dean of Students and Director of Residence Life, was available to answer
questions and address the SGA in response to complaints that police had overstepped traditional boundaries in their enforcement of the
alcohol policy. In particular, senators were concerned that police barred underage students from attending parties at Martin Court apartments. The
alcohol policy states that underage students may attend parties where alcohol is served as long as they do not consume
it.

Perillo explained that many of the campus safety officers working last weekend were recently hired and not familiar with the
alcohol policy. She and Chief of Campus Police Fountain Walker are working to improve students’ and officers’ understanding of the
policy, which is posted on the college website. Senator Andy Dunn ’10 pointed out that he had been stopped at
a DUI checkpoint late on the night of First Night Down and asked why neither he nor other students had
been notified that such a checkpoint existed. Dean of Students Tom Shandley replied that the checkpoint was off-campus and operated
by Davidson town police, and that the college had no input into the decisions made by state and local law
enforcement in discharging their duties.

The SGA also welcomed newly elected senators Faheem Rathore ’12, Brittany Lafleur ’12, Jordan Starck ’12, Daniel Keller ’12, Gerard
Dash ’12, and freshman class president Chipper Jones ’12, as well as the appointment of Utsha Khatri ’09 to the
vice presidency of the Diversity Coordinating Board (DCB). Khatri announced that the board had two goals for the semester. The
first is to complete a proposal for the multi-cultural resource center that articulates students’ needs and expectations for the center
while estimating the amount of space, staff, and money required to meet those expectations. SGA members had several concerns about
the proposal. The resolution failed with 6 aye votes, 14 nay votes, and seven abstentions. Academic Policy Committee Chair Colby
Uptegraft hopes to revisit the idea in committee and address students’ concerns. The second resolution was to add an afternoon
exam period to the last day of exams. It passed with two abstentions and no nay votes.

9/21/08 Vandalism 118 Patterson Court Circle

On Sunday, September 21, Officer Hager was walking patrol when a light pole was struck by three students. The officer
observed that the light pole was not lit. The officer approached them and asked for their identification, and also asked
why they struck the pole. All three students claimed they struck the pole because it was not lit and it
would light again if it was struck. The officer advised them that the light poles were very expensive to replace,
and that they should not have struck it. The officer was unable to determine with what part of their bodies
they struck the pole. The officer inspected the pole very closely and found 2 shoe marks on the pole about
4 feet high. The students were cooperative and advised they would talk to Chief Walker about the situation. After 10
minutes had passed, the light pole did relight. No other damage was observed.

9/21/08 Fire via Intoxication 926 Main Street

On Sunday, September 21, at 3:33 A.M., Officer Linker was dispatched to 926 Main St. apartment H, for a fire
alarm activation. Upon arrival, Davidson Fire and Cornelius Fire were on the scene. Officer Linker spoke to the subject who
lives at this address who was also intoxicated and stated that he had forgotten about the food that he had
put in the oven to cook. This had set the fire alarms off inside the apartment. This subject also removed
two fire alarms from the downstairs and the upstairs to stop the alarms from sounding. Davidson Fire advised him to
put the alarms back in place before they leave the scene. The subject did comply with the fire department's request
to reinstall the alarms.

9/22/08 Suspicious Man Baker Parking Lot

On Monday, September 22, a female student came to the Campus Police Office to report a suspicious person. She stated
that on Sunday morning around 9:40 she was walking back from a residence behind the Baker Sports Complex parking lot
when she saw a white male leaning against a car. As she approached, he walked a few steps over to
her and asked if she had been partying all night. She told him she had not and he engaged her
in a conversation about her studies, her career, and her academics. She stated he insinuated he was connected to the
college and appeared to be some professor. He told her he was a lawyer from Concord and that he was
interested in meeting with her later to discuss her academics and career. The campus police notified Davidson town police and
will attempt to locate this individual who is known to approach young women in our area. He is about 5’9”,
in his forties, no facial hair, and wears glasses. To date, there has been no report of threatening behavior, however,
he does insinuate he has some relationship with Davidson College as a tool to obtain personal information from young women.

Upcoming Staff Writer

Although much of the public’s focus this week has been geared towards the problems occurring on Wall Street, both presidential
campaigns have also been diligently preparing for the upcoming debates. The first debate will be held this Friday at Ole
Miss and will be broadcast on every major media outlet. Many see these debates as the key to getting those
voters who have not chosen a candidate—nearly 10% of the electorate—to swing their vote towards one candidate or the other.
For many, the debate this Friday will be the first time that they see the Presidential candidates face off in
an unscripted setting that will focus strictly on the issues.As there will be three presidential debates over the course of
the next 40 days, each debate will attempt to hone in on a few particular, yet pertinent issues. The focus
of the upcoming debate will be national security and foreign policy — two issues that many political experts feel are
McCain’s strong suit. Experts and commentators are torn in regards to who has the most to lose in the upcoming
debates. Many have said that Barack Obama’s public speaking ability and eloquence will be too much for McCain to overcome,
thus putting the Senator from Arizona on the defensive during the entire debate. Others claim that it is the very
fact that people expect so much of Obama that will, in turn, help McCain. They believe that Americans do not
have great expectations for Senator McCain, and that he may do a lot better in the one-on-one setting than people
think. They argue that Obama has more to lose than to gain.

“I’m worried that people have idealized Obama and have come to expect unrealistic things from him,” one Davidson student, who
described herself as a fervent Democrat, said. “I think people should go into the debates with an open mind and
listen carefully to the things that both candidates say.”

Heading into the debate, the race is about as close as it gets. According to the latest poll conducted by
CNN, Obama holds a three percentage point lead over McCain, 47-44. McCain holds a nail-biting 47-46 lead over Obama in
both Florida and Ohio. Other battleground states include Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Davidson’s North Carolina. While the winner of the debate
is not always necessarily the winner of the election, there have been moments in recent elections when a candidate’s lackluster
performance has swayed voters away from them. In 1992, President George H.W. Bush looked at his watch while Bill Clinton
was speaking, giving many voters the impression that he was disrespectful and not concerned with the issues affecting Americans. Additionally,
in a 2000 presidential debate, Al Gore’s continuous sighs throughout his debate with George W. Bush gave many voters the
impression that he was sulking, and thus handed the momentum to Bush. Regardless of your party affiliation, the debate this
coming Friday promises to be an engaging and fascinating occasion.

EAC, from page 1

...may be due to the fact that young Americans will be “bearing the brunt of a lot of the harm
that is happening today.” Carson discussed EAC’s intentions behind supporting the national Power Vote movement. In the past, “EAC has
focused more on campus-related issues,” Carson said. “[We] wanted to branch out and do something related to these issues outside
of Davidson.” EAC believes that this is a great chance for Davidson students to have a substantial impact on the
current election and the environmental future of our nation and world.

“With an election coming up that has the potential to be one of the greatest in recent history, one of
the most significant and especially the one in which these issues have the greatest visibility, each Davidson student should have
their voice heard,” Carson said. The first EAC Power Vote event will be held this Wednesday, but students will have
an opportunity to get involved throughout the semester. While Carson notes that “some people doubt that their individual effort would
be of any impact,” he disagrees, and “encourages any Davidson student to take advantage of any events happening this year
that are a result of this great upswing in environmental awareness.”

Homeless, from page 1

...which adds to the number of homeless people in Charlotte. If an individual has a drug felony, they are prohibited
from receiving food stamps. “It all starts with one mistake,” he said. When asked about the variety of people that
go to UMC, they told us that the majority of the people are teenagers, under eighteen who have run away
from home, and pregnant women. There are not enough places in Charlotte for the homeless, so there are stipulations for
most of the facilities. For instance, John informed us that there is not a place for a husband and wife
that do not have children to go together, because they are not considered a family. There is no shelter for
men at night and the Salvation Army houses women with children. From December 1 to April, there is an event
called Room in the Inn to provide temporary shelter. Priority is given to women with children, followed by women and
men over fifty-five. Everyone else is not guaranteed a room. Starting Oct. 1 there is a shelter called the Dog
Pound where all men can stay.

When asked if they have family who could help them, John replied that he has eight kids, not with Gwen,
and Gwen has two kids, both of them have two grandchildren each. John and Gwen do not want to put
any burden on their families, “No one knows. We are homeless, they would kill us,” Gwen stated. Davidson students were
touched by the words of John and Gwen. Many were almost in tears towards the closing. To hear John tell
us that he feels guilty that his wife is with him but to hear that they are happy together and
happy that God is with them, gives one a lot to think about. All the students could do is offer
sympathy. Iain Addleton ’12, offered to personally take John to the doctor when necessary; since John does not always have
money for the bus and cannot otherwise go to the doctor. If anyone wants to be involved in helping at
the UMC, contact Rachel Richardson or Alanna Ford. The UCA states that they “want volunteering to be a fulfilling, stress-free
activity.” John even told the crowd, “If you have spare time, come to the center, you might have fun.”
