2 THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2008

Philanthropy and microfinance: money in the bank

CLINT SMITH
Staff Writer

A relatively new phenomenon in the worlds of both business and philanthropy, “microfinance” has taken the world by storm since its inception. In only a few years, microfinance has become one of the most effective and appealing endeavors to fight international poverty in an increasingly globalized world. What microfinance does is offer underprivileged people access to basic financial services that may not otherwise have been afforded to them. With world-renowned agencies such as KIVA and Microfinance Gateway leading the way, microfinance organizations loan small sums of money to citizens in developing countries who are attempting to start a business.

“Microfinance is really unique because it’s a form of poverty alleviation that also helps to build up the economies of underdeveloped countries.” -Julie Palm ’10

Once the business is up and running, the client pays back the entire loan to the organization, and the organization proceeds to use that same money to assist other clients in developing their businesses. The notion of microfinance, however, is not limited to simply large financial and philanthropic institutions. In fact, Davidson College has a Microfinance Club of its own. In a relatively short time period, the club has already raised over $10,000 to aid them in their efforts. Club president Julie Palm ’10 says that the club has already made hundreds of dollars in loans to several entrepreneurs and plans on continuing to do so throughout the course of the year. She points out that unlike some other philanthropic groups, the Microfinance Club is a self-sustaining organization.

“Theoretically, we should no longer need monetary assistance from outside organizations because after we’ve made a loan to someone, we get all of that money back within nine months,” Palm said. “This allows us to help countless people using the same renewable source of money.”

For Palm, like so many others involved in microfinance, the fact that this type of philanthropy is geared towards fighting poverty at a grassroots level makes it particularly appealing.

“Microfinance is really unique because it’s a form of poverty alleviation that also helps to build up the economies of underdeveloped countries,” Palm said. “By giving citizens of these nations the funds to start their own businesses, it really attempts to fix poverty at its roots rather than throwing money at the surface.”

However, she quickly said that by no means are more traditional charities a bad thing, but that microfinance is merely another way for people to, “use their funds in a socially conscious, humanitarian way.”

Dark from page I

In order to get the word out about Do It in the Dark, EAC worked with Davidson Outdoors to set up a tent village on Chambers Lawn. Students living in the village on November 12 and 13 tried to live off the power grid while publicizing ways to save energy. A large circus-like tent drew the attention of other students as they walked to class. Josh Carson, a member of EAC and participant in the tent village, explained, “The novelty of the experience made it quite fun, and nothing I kept with me in my tent required the use of electricity. I felt freed from my need to use energy for part of my everyday life.”

What can students do in their dorms to save energy? Turning off lights in dorm rooms and common areas makes a big difference. It’s also easy to turn your computer off: a 150-watt personal computer system will use 1,314-kilowatt hours of electricity a year if left on continuously. To eliminate the “phantom load” (energy use even when an appliance is turned off), try plugging things like DVD players, coffee makers, and gaming systems into power strips, and turning the strip off when not in use.the experience made it quite fun... nothing I kept with me in my tent required the use of electricity. I felt freed from my need to use energy for part of my everyday life.” - Josh Carson ’09

Another simple option is to open mini-fridges less frequently, which allows the 30 percent of cold air that escapes by opening the door to stay inside, saving energy. Also, students studying together in rooms in Chambers or dorm rooms is better than having lights on in many rooms where people are studying alone.

EAC is not the only organization on campus promoting the environment during November. Engage for Change’s week of focused programming included a recycled gift craft session and a Beans and Rice interactive dinner.

Watts, -5.1%
Duke, -9.5%
Do It in the Dark
Are you in the lead?
Tomlinson, 3.8%
Down the Hill
Bam Richardson, 16.9%
Cannon, 14.1%
Sentelle, 12.0%
Belk, 11.9%

-15.0% -10.0% -5.0% 0.0% 5.0% % Energy Decrease 10.0% 15.0% 20.0% 25.0% 30.0%

graph by Rachel Andersen | The results of the “Do It In the Dark” competition thus far.

“I think that microfinance appeals to a type of giver who may not otherwise be willing to donate their money,” Palm said, “People who are more business savvy may be tempted to give to a group that will both help the less fortunate and assist in building up an underdeveloped economy.”

“People who are more business savvy may be tempted to give to a group that will both help the less fortunate and assist in building up an underdeveloped economy.” - Julie Palm ’10

Also, the notion that the giver will ultimately get their money back is very enticing to people who may otherwise be wary of donating their money to an organization they don’t know much about.

The Davidson Microfinance Club uses the website www.kiva.org to make their loans. By its own definition, KIVA “is the world’s first person-to-person micro-lending website, empowering individuals to lend directly to unique entrepreneurs in the developing world.” The website allows users to browse prospective entrepreneurs and give money, via credit card, to whomever they choose.

Every other week, Davidson Microfinance Club members meet as a group to decide on what individuals they will give loans to. Palm says that the members take a variety of factors into account, including the type of business being run, in what way the business will help those around it, as well as the person’s geographic location. “We really seek both demographic and geographic diversity because we want to have a hand in every region of the world,” said Palm.

One of those demographics that the group believes is particularly important is women. In the microfinance world, over 85 percent of the clients are women. This is due to the fact that in many developing countries, women are discouraged from starting their own businesses and often do not receive the financial support necessary to begin a company. Thus, they look towards Western-based microfinance organizations in hopes of attaining the basic funds. For many women, these groups are their only option when it comes to fulfilling their dream of owning a business.

The group is planning a number of awareness-raising initiatives in the coming months, including a forum with Davidson professors and esteemed guests that should be held early next semester. In the meantime, Palm encourages anyone who is interested in joining the club to contact her at jupalm@davidson.edu.

Many economic experts have stated that if microfinance is adopted worldwide and used effectively, then it could eradicate poverty in less than 50 years. To many, such a notion may seem a far-fetched, idealistic impossibility. Palm, however, hopes that people will look at microfinance and give it the opportunity to change the world.