THE DAVIDSONIAN

Economy, from page 1

to companies and individuals who are out to make a short-term profit. The long-term effects of such packages are proving to be anything but profitable, putting major mortgage companies at risk nationwide. The government’s Bailout Bill proposed Monday was not passed by Congress. Ross and Smith expressed their disappointment, suggesting that President Bush did not present the package well enough to the public, causing it to fail. They emphasized that the proposed $700 billion needed for the bailout would not have been forced directly upon the taxpayer. More than likely, the fund would have been absorbed elsewhere as Smith pointed out that a similar situation happened when the government bailed out Chrysler in 1983 and very little of the cost was absorbed by the public. The price tag associated with this current Bailout Bill was not well presented, according to Smith, and as a result, was not passed, causing a panic in the markets as they continued to drop on Monday. According to Smith, if it had been passed, the psychological ramifications would have been great. Regaining public confidence in the government and economy will be the great challenge for Washington in the coming weeks. The need for a new and sustainable Bailout plan is necessary and will hopefully foster confidence and restore a healthy psyche to the American consumer.

After mentioning President Bush’s inability to present the Bailout plan effectively, the discussion quickly turned to politics. Ross elaborated on this point, suggesting that President Bush didn’t create a strong enough firewall between this issue and the impending presidential election. Ross remained adamant that the current economic situation is not strictly a Democrat or Republican problem. Upon being asked which candidate they felt was better suited to deal with the rapidly changing economy, Smith quickly advocated for Senator Obama. “We’ve had eight years of a president selecting people that are less than the best in their field,” Smith said, citing John Snow and Paul O’Neal as less than ideal choices for Secretary of Treasury. Smith continued, emphasizing that Senator McCain was not listening to the top people in the field, namely Phil Gramm. Smith concluded by saying, “I have a lot of confidence that he [Senator Obama] is going to ask the right people the right questions.” Ross remained fairly silent on this question and did not offer an alternative opinion.

When asked how this economic crisis would directly affect the Davidson student population, Ross said, “Well, there are four or five investment banks that got Davidson student applications that no longer exist.” Ross continued, stating that if the economy does not improve, this could limit the financial success of Davidson and the college may be looking at flatter budgets for next year. Not only will the economy affect Davidson students’ ability to get jobs in the future, but questions surrounding student loans and Davidson’s financial aid policy are buzzing across campus with no definitive answers so far. Concluding this forum, both Ross and Smith expressed their concern for the unpredictable nature of the economy. Ross said, “That is what is very frightening because this is unpredictable stuff.” After Dr. Smith candidly said, “I lost a butt-load of money today.” Clearly, Smith is not alone as many Americans find themselves facing financial losses. The unpredictable nature of the current market may also lead to an increase in unemployment rates. As the government scrambles to find solutions, only time will tell if we are facing a crisis or a return to responsible and regulated lending.

“Darius Goes West”

JULIA EDWARDS
Staff Writer

In the summer of 2005, Darius Weems, a high school student with Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, left his home in Athens, Georgia, for the first time to travel west to California. Darius’s RV was filled with eleven of his friends, including Davidson student Andrew Carson, who helped to make the journey into a documentary called “Darius Goes West.” Now, in the fall of 2008, Darius and his crew are taking their second trip to promote the documentary in hopes of raising funds for Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy from DVD sales. Their goal is to sell one million DVDs. Darius, Carson, and the rest of the crew will be visiting Davidson at 7 p.m. next Monday, October 6, to show “Darius Goes West” to the college and the community in the Duke Family Performance Hall. The film will be shown again, without the crew on site, the next evening at 7 p.m. in the Lilly Family Gallery. The event is free and no tickets are required. DVDs and t-shirts will be on sale in the union until Friday, Oct 17. Each copy is $20, with $17 going directly to Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy research.

As the film depicts, Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy is a degenerative, genetic, and debilitating disease and the number one childhood killing disease in the world. Luckily, researchers now believe a cure is in sight. “My hope is that people translate their enjoyment of the film and appreciation of the cause into action,” Carson said. “If people like the movie, we hope they buy DVDs and we hope they tell their families and friends across the country about ‘Darius Goes West.’ We are a grassroots movement without a budget for expensive marketing, so we depend on word-of-mouth from supporters to spread the cause across the country.” So far, that support has been increasing rapidly and the film is gaining national attention. It was named Most Decorated Film of 2007 and won 28 film festival awards.During the film’s promotional tour, the crew has appeared on Nightline, The Today Show, and Ellen DeGeneres. The men of Kappa Sigma, Carson’s fraternity, are doing all they can to see that the event is promoted in this area to help Darius and his crew reach their goal of selling one million DVDs. They have recruited the help of Kappa Alpha, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Phi Epsilon, and the Davidson Ultimate Frisbee Federation. They have been advertising the event to various groups across campus. “This is an important chance for students to build a greater sense of community by doing what they can to support a great cause, not to mention one of our own, Andrew Carson,” John Frankel ’11, service chair of Kappa Sigma, said. “Moreover, the movie is fantastic. It’s funny, intelligent, and moving—something they’ll want to watch more than once.” Trailers for the film are available on YouTube.

SGA, from page 1

Severin Tucker ’09, Independent senator, asked about the presence of Alcohol Law Enforcement (ALE) both on campus and in town. Previously, ALE has given little advance notice prior to arriving in Davidson and has aggressively enforced alcohol laws. Walker replied that ALE had undergone a change in leadership and would be modifying its approach, including possibly holding information sessions on campus. Walker also responded to questions about student safety. Nicolas Cisneros ’09, Treasurer, asked about recent thefts in the library and campus safety’s intended response. Walker answered by saying that surveillance equipment had been installed and suspects were being reviewed from footage. He believed the suspect to be a female but not a student at the college.

The remainder of the meeting was devoted to reviewing the Activities Tax Council’s (ATC) fall equipment allocation, where approximately $100,000 of the council’s budget will be spent. The largest requests made were from Davidson Outdoors (DO), the Union Board, and the Labyrinth Project. DO hopes to receive an additional $29,487 to supplement its allocation of $33,145. DO runs the Community Bicycle program, which must replace a third of its fleet in a given year and also intends to replace some of its aging outdoor equipment. The Union Board’s request was for $28,667, which will all be spent on the Davidson Show. The Show currently has no space of its own and often must borrow equipment to produce the program. The equipment allocation is divided into three parts. The first is simply an equipment request that includes cameras, lighting, microphones, and video editing equipment and software. The second is a facilities renovation request, which will pay for the conversion of the Outpost’s basement into a permanent studio for the Davidson Show. The renovation itself will be carried out by Physical Plant. The last component is for facility equipment such as soundproofing, backdrops, and a green screen. The Labyrinth Project has requested $10,000 in an effort—cosponsored by mental health and arts organizations—to construct a Chartres-style labyrinth on campus, adjacent to Hobart Park. Such a labyrinth would provide a space for meditation and reflection for students. Approximately two-thirds of the total cost of $30,000 has been pledged by the President’s Office and a donor.

According to Associate Dean of Students Kathy Bray-Merrell, one of the agreed-upon changes was a consolidation of information about sexual misconduct. Previously, this information was separated within the Student Handbook; now all information is joined together under the Sexual Misconduct header. Also available now is a clearer statement of resources available to both the accusing and accused student. Another important adjustment approved by the Student Conduct Council was a clarification of the definition of incapacitation. The new rules set up very clear guidelines for incapacitation, found in the Student Handbook, which state examples of incapacitation include but are not limited to the following: persons who are intoxicated. According to Dean Bray-Merrell, in the past, such evidence could only be used...

Veteran, from page 2

...of work to be done in Iraq. Boyce said that he feels an urge to go back to Iraq, and his studies at UNC Medical School may help him do that. Before going to Iraq, Boyce said that he just wanted to be a “country doctor,” but his war experience changed that dream. Boyce said he now wants to attend school in London, after receiving his general medicine degree, to receive a degree in population and public health. His dream is to work with an NGO like the International Red Cross to help build or rebuild a nation’s health infrastructure. While he acknowledged that he won’t be able to solve all the world’s problems, “I’m certainly willing to chip away.” Ross Boyce graduated Magna Cum Laude in 2001 with honors in Chemistry. He minored in Russian and participated in ROTC all four years, winning the James Baker Woods Award for the most outstanding cadet.