10 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2008

Appreciating field hockey

CHRIS YOUNG
Staff Writer

The defenseman zips the ball to a forward on a crisp outlet pass. After only a brief dribble, the forward
feathers a cross to a teammate streaking toward the goal, who angles the ball into the corner of the net
for the game’s first score. Sounds pretty exciting, right? Well, you might be surprised at the origin of that stirring
sequence. That scene was witnessed up at Belk Turf Field a few weeks ago. Yep, that impressive play came in
a field hockey game.

I'll be the first to tell you that I have never considered field hockey to be an exciting spectator sport.
The first field hockey game I ever watched came in 2004, a high-school matchup between two of the best teams
in Virginia. The score after regulation? That would be a 0-0 tie. Oh, but it gets better. Neither team even
had a shot on goal. And yes, it was every bit as bad as it sounds.

So count me among the most surprised when I actually enjoyed watching our Davidson Field Hockey team play #1 Wake
Forest a few weeks ago. It ended in a competitive 4-1 loss, but the play was fast, exciting and, dare
I say, fun to watch. How did I progress from absolutely loathing the sport to actually enjoying a game? I
mean, I’d seen my fair share of it. My younger sister plays in high school, and if not for the
family interest, I’m not sure I could bear watching for more than a few minutes.

I am no field hockey aficionado, so I had a difficult time understanding the game and what differentiated my field
hockey experiences. In order to make sense of my change in heart, I called in Liz Luckey '10, a midfielder
for the Cats. Ironically, Luckey played in the aforementioned 0-0 affair that introduced me to the sport.

Luckey did not seem surprised when I expressed my distaste for the lower levels of the sport. She indicated that
most high schools play on grass fields, where crisp passing, creative dribbling, and accurately lofted shots are much more difficult
to perform. She also mentioned the obvious fact that high school players, on a whole, are less skilled than college
athletes, leading to a lower level of play.

Luckey stated that teaching field hockey to younger players is often a futile task. When speaking of coaching beginners, she
noted, “We might as well just sit there and pick daisies with them.” She was quick to point out, though,
that as young players gain experience and athleticism, their propensity for exciting and skilled play increases exponentially. After watching parts
of several Division I college games, I would have to agree.

On turf and with the skilled athletes playing, the strategy of simply hitting the ball hard, creating a scrum in
front of the net, and hoping to get a fortunate bounce no longer applies. Instead, collegiate teams run complex plays
that usually involve deftly handling a speeding ball and angling precise shots past the goalie. Plus, as Luckey noted, field
hockey is the only sport in which a rock-hard projectile is hit in the air at impressive speeds and the
players are not required to wear any form of mask or helmet. While some high schools are apparently now requiring
facemasks, the NCAA has not yet taken similar measures.

With the ever-increasing skill level of players and speed of the game, field hockey players constantly put their bodies on
the line in a way that often goes unnoticed. Even putting aside the obvious risk of a ball to the
face, the game is often brutally physical. Anyone watching has to appreciate that.

Look, it’s still not my favorite sport to watch. There is still not enough scoring for my liking, and I
am still often not sure of what is transpiring on the field (though I am learning). That being said, I
have gained an intense appreciation for the nuances of the game, the quality of the athletes and the impressive amount
of effort and focus.

Wildcats fall twice

KRIS HENDERSHOT
Staff Writer

The Davidson field hockey team had two very competitive road games this past week. On Wednesday, they traveled to Boone,
North Carolina to play the Appalachian State University Mountaineers, and on Saturday they played the Radford University Highlanders in Radford,
Virginia. The Wildcats lost a very close game that was decided by penalty strokes to App. State 3-2 and then
lost 5-0 to Radford.

The game on Wednesday night against the Mountaineers was extremely close and could not be decided in regulation and two
overtimes. Penalty strokes decided the game and unfortunately the Mountaineers came out on top. In the critical penalty stroke period,
the Mountaineers scored three goals while the Wildcats only scored once, courtesy of midfielder Clare Perry '11. “The game was
really down to the wire,” Meg Jarrell '12 said.

The game against Appalachian State did not count for the conference standings; however, the contest on October 22 at home
does count as the conference game.

See Hockey, page 11Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

that goes into the games. So head on up to Belk Turf Field and watch the ’Cats in their last
month of the season. You might just be pleasantly surprised with what you see.

Britti Himmelfarb ’09 scored her second goal of the season in the ’Cats 3-2 loss to Appalachian State.

Football (2-2)
Results:
10/4 @ Morehead State L 13-26

Next Up:
10/11 @ Valparaiso

Notes: Turnovers proved costly as the ’Cats dropped a conference game last weekend. This week they are looking to get
back on the right track with a win at Valpo.

Field Hockey (3-9)
Results:
10/1 @ App. State L 2-3
10/4 @ Radford L 0-5

Next Up:
10/11 @ California
10/12 vs. Pacific
10/14 @ Stanford

Notes: Coming off of two tough losses, the ’Cats travel out west hoping to get back to their winning ways.

Women’s Soccer (6-2-3)
Results:
10/3 vs. Samford W 3-0
10/5 vs. Chattanooga W 5-0

Next Up:
10/10 @ Furman
10/12 vs. The Citadel

Notes: After defeating UNCG last week, the Wildcats look to notch their second SoCon win at Furman on Friday.

Men’s Soccer (2-8-1)
Results:
10/1 vs. UNC-G W 1-0
10/4 @ CofC L 0-3

Next Up:
10/10 @ CofC

Notes: The ’Cats enter the week tied for first in the Southern Conference standings with Western Carolina.

Southern Conference matches

’Cats in road loss
Ray Francis
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats football team turned the ball over four times Saturday and fell to Morehead State on the road
by a score of 26-13. There was no second-half magic for the Wildcats like last week’s 21-point comeback, as a
23-7 halftime deficit proved insurmountable.

Ryan Alexander ’09 led Davidson with 253 yards on 27-53 passing for two touchdowns, but also threw three interceptions and
lost a fumble. Kirk Konert ’09 led the Wildcat receiving corps with 81 yards on six catches. Kenny Mantuo ’11
and Kirk Benedict ’10 caught touchdowns. Evan Sawyer threw for two touchdowns to lead the Eagles.

The Eagles jumped out to a 13-0 lead after one quarter courtesy of two Wildcat turnovers. Alexander’s first interception set
up a 43-yard touchdown march and Konert was tackled on his own 22-yard line while trying to punt, setting up
an 8-yard drive to a field goal.

Alexander led the Wildcats back in the second quarter, connecting with Mantuo on a 25-yard screen pass. The Eagles soon
tacked on another field goal after being given a short field from a 22-yard punt. The Wildcats were driving for
points before the half until Alexander was intercepted with 37 seconds remaining. The Eagles then struck what Wildcat coach Tripp
Merritt would call the “back-breaker”: Sawyer hit Brendan McLaughlin for a 30-yard touchdown as the half ended to provide the
23-7 margin.

Alexander connected with Benedict for a 4-yard touchdown pass with four minutes remaining in the third quarter, but his two-point
conversion pass was incomplete. The Wildcats drove inside the Eagle 40 twice in the fourth quarter, but were forced to
turn the ball over on downs each time. Morehead State added another field goal with five minutes remaining for the
final margin.

“It really seemed like we could never establish a rhythm,” said Tyler Lemons ’10, who led the team with ten
tackles. “There were some bright spots here and there but, there were also plenty of low spots.”

Merritt, while disappointed in the Wildcats’ struggles with punting (Davidson also had a punt partially blocked during the game) and
their turnovers, was happy with the play of the defense. He said that “they played their best half of the
year in the second half” when they held the Eagles to only three points.

The loss dropped the Wildcats to 2-2 and 1-1 in the Pioneer Football League. Davidson will return to the road
next week when they travel to Valparaiso, a team they defeated 44-6 last season. Merritt said that the team will
work on special teams in practice this week, as well as on staying focused on the rest of the season.
He was quick to point out that “the league winner is probably not going to be undefeated this year,” meaning
that the Wildcats are still alive for at least a share of the league crown. He also cautioned against looking
past the Crusaders, saying that they have many returning starters and are much improved from last season. However, he is
confident that his team can bounce back from this defeat.

Lemons agreed, saying, “We will get it together, have a great week of practice and get a great game plan
drawn up for next week.”

Volleyball
Results:
10/4 @ CofC L 0-3
10/5 @ The Citadel W 3-1
10/7 vs. Gardner-Webb W 3-2

Next Up:
10/11 @ App. State
10/12 @ Western Carolina

Notes: The Wildcats return to the road for three more matches.

Men’s and Women’s Cross Country
Results:
10/4 Greater Louisville Cross Country Classic (32 teams)
Men - 19th place
Women - 11th place

Next Up:
10/14 @ Ga. Southern
10/17 Blue Ridge Mountain Open

Notes: The ’Cats have a week off before heading to Boone, N.C. over fall break for their next meet.
