2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Academics

From page 1

The exclusion of majors from the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies has left students out in the cold. Students often wonder
why Davidson does not offer more variety in majors at the departmental level, which would allow students to draw on
the departmental resources and clout that the Center cannot provide.

Denham empathizes with Center majors, but he doubts that creating more majors would be beneficial to students or the academic
integrity of Davidson. "Peer institutions, many of whom have been more entrepreneurial with interdisciplinary majors because of tradition and geography,
don’t have strength in those majors," Denham said. "Labels on a transcript should represent substance: it’s a serious measure of
consensus that at Davidson what you see is what you get."

Denham would like to see more students pursue a major and a concentration, but in order to do so, the
school would have to increase the number of faculty while cutting back on its current core requirements.

Uptegraft also asked the audience for their opinions regarding an email sent out last week showing that Davidson students, in
comparison with 35 peer institutions, come out with the 29th lowest average GPA. While many students can attest to the
difficulty of earning A’s at Davidson, the existence of grade deflation here remains a highly debated issue.

Dr. John Swallow, Professor of Mathematics, and Dr. Scott Denham, Professor of German Studies and head of the Center for
Interdisciplinary Studies, represented the faculty. Dr. Denham and Dr. Swallow were able to elaborate on what challenges professors will face
at the departmental level in curriculum changes.

Ross raised some interesting questions for the audience: "What is our admission rate to law and medical school? What are
the grade points of those who get in and what is the average GPA of admitted medical school students?"

Ross did provide food for thought but failed to appease the seniors present who expressed their frustration in applying to
graduate schools. "Have I started an inquiry? Yes. Do I know the answers? No."

Both Denham and Swallow agreed that the departments currently work very independently and need to shift toward greater collaboration if
the curriculum is going to take on a different shape in the near future. The traditional autonomy of departments at
Davidson has not only made cooperation amongst them difficult, but the exclusivity resulting from this divide has also hindered response
to students. "Information doesn’t help, we need hard data," Laura Bergner ’09 said.

One of the conclusions drawn by the Strategic Assessment was the need for a larger menu of course offerings at
Davidson, which brought its traditional core curriculum into question. "What ought to be the future of core courses for liberal
arts education? Is it time to rethink our focus on the Western world?" Ross asked.

"The information was gathered at my request because I believe we ought to know what the facts are and I
believe in keeping good data," Ross said. Though Ross could not deny the findings of the research, he is hesitant
to accept that Davidson GPAs suffer from grade deflation.

"We would like to see Davidson lead itself in a proactive way. We don’t want to wait for things to
happen to us, but to consider the future and lead ourselves into it the way we want to go," Ross
said.

Once the floor was opened up to students, Lindsay Kallman ’10 asked the question on everyone’s minds: "Where would Ross
like to see the College at the end of this process?"

"I can’t really say, but the right way to steer this kind of process is to let it unfold, let
people’s ideas be heard and let the process be inclusive," said Ross.

Ross’ ambiguous reply piqued the students’ curiosity, but the President refused to elaborate. "I fear people will close their mind
and only see certain alternatives if I voice my opinion too much," Ross said.a snake to guests at this past
Saturday's Reptile Day, sponsored by the Herpetology Laboratory.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16, 2008

GPA discussion continues
By KATE GILLESPIE
Staff Writer

Last Thursday’s SGA meeting featured a vote on the resolution concerning divestment from companies that conduct business in Darfur and
an update on the discussion of GPA deflation.

Daniel Van Oudenaren ’08, a representative from the anti-genocide coalition STAND, presented the resolution concerning divestment to senators. For the
last few weeks, STAND has been collecting student signatures for a petition asking the Board of Trustees to divest Davidson’s
endowment from companies that have business operations in Sudan. According to Van Oudenaren, the endowment’s investment in Sudan-related companies last
year totaled about $250,000. At last Thursday’s meeting, however, Van Oudenaren said that Davidson does not appear to have any
current holdings in these companies. “We're pretty Sudan-friendly at this point,” he said.

According to SGA President Davis Greene ’09, there are several reasons why the companies in which Davidson invests no longer
conduct business in Sudan. “The U.S. government enacted a law that no U.S. companies can do business in Sudan,” Greene
said. “We also only have one management firm that’s investing in energy.” Both Van Oudenaren and Greene said that Davidson
potentially could be involved in Sudan-related investments in the future. They asked senators to vote for what Greene called “a
policy for the future,” pledging that Davidson would “look before we buy.” Senators unanimously passed the resolution supporting this policy.

Meikaela Zwieryznski ’10 then introduced the outcome of last Wednesday’s Academic Policy Forum. Students and faculty members at the Forum
spoke with President Tom Ross about the Strategic Assessment Plan and recent research indicating that Davidson students have lower GPAs
than students at peer institutions. Senators sent an email to their respective classes last week with information about the GPA
research. According to Zwieryznski, Ross said that he wished there had been time to prepare a package of information to
prevent students from misunderstanding the issue. Zwieryznski, however, said that the purpose of the email was “to inform the student
body and start a dialogue.” She asked senators to emphasize that more research must be done before Davidson can begin
responding to the GPA issue. “I would promote everybody saying, yes, this means something but that we need more research,”
Zwieryznski said. Ross plans to form a task force between the administration and students to conduct a more in-depth study
of the issue.

Katie Hunter ’08, who attended the APC Forum, said she thought the event was a success. “I felt like everybody
there made known the concerns,” she said. Hunter also said that students need to know that “there aren’t two opposing
camps” between students and faculty members. Zwieryznski agreed with Hunter and said that students need to realize that the purpose
of sharing the information was to start a dialogue. “If it becomes this butting of heads, then no progress is
going to be made,” Zwieryznski said. According to Whitney White ’08, however, students should be prepared for some disagreement.

The meeting also included a report from Laura Cepeda ’10, the head of the Admission and Financial Aid Committee. Cepeda
said that the Admission Office is trying to increase its recruitment of international students. Only about four percent of Davidson’s
student population is international students. Because financial aid packages for these students must come from alumni grants, funding is very
limited and has not increased in over a decade. Cepeda said that the Admission Office plans to recruit international students
who can afford a Davidson education in order to increase the international population.

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School
Best Lawyers in America ‘84-’07
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals
Adjunct professor of trial advocacy Duke Law School

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. University of Richmond
Commissioner for the Town of Davidson ’83-’85; ’88-’97
Town of Davidson Commercial and North End Corridor Plan ’05
Mecklenburg County Real Estate Executive Council ’03 to present
Concentrating in Personal Injury

UNC Law School - Other Areas of Practice
Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning, Litigation, Real Estate, Social Security Disability, Wills & Trusts

LAW FIRM
In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)
