THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Bosom Buddies sets new fundraising record

By BIANCA MITCHELL
Staff Writer

“Do I hear $3,400?” James Boswell ’08 asked, acting as the auctioneer for this year’s Connor House Bosom Buddies Event.
The event was held last Saturday evening in the Lilly Family Gallery. The auction raises money for the Friends for
an Earlier Breast Cancer Test Foundation, which helps women to detect the dangerous disease early on. This year the event
sold out within its first few days of ticket sales. With pink (the color symbolic of the breast cancer cause)
decorations everywhere, the event was a success, raising a little over $39,000. This total was over $10,000 more than last
year’s Bosom Buddies fundraiser.

Both a silent auction and live auction took place, along with a dinner donated by local restaurants. The most sought-after
item (especially by the SAE fraternity, whose members had the winning bid) to be auctioned off was a basketball lesson
with Stephen Curry ’10, Jason Richards ’08, and Thomas Sander ’08 that went for over $3,000. Other items included a
beach trip, a mountain trip, a trip to New York City, and many accessories, including ties and jewelry.

In preparation for the event, Connor House had help from a wide range of student-run committees. One of the most
important of these committees was the solicitation committee, which used help from all house members to spread the event’s name
to possible donors. Teale Clark ’08, solicitation co-chair, was excited about the success of this year’s event. “The community is
always excited to help out and this year we had a wide range of donations of everything from food to
auction items,” she said. Other committees were important from start to finish in organizing everything from selling tickets to cleaning
up the morning after the affair.

The most memorable and touching part of the entire night was a speech by Boston University graduate and current breast
cancer patient Bridget Mooney. Mooney’s diagnosis story was not only shocking but made many audience members realize just how serious
the disease can be. Bridget was diagnosed with stage four (the final stage) breast cancer at the age of 21,
just three years ago. When she first found the lump in her breast, doctors told her it was nothing. She
“was too young for breast cancer,” doctors said. With no family history of the disease and a young and healthy
lifestyle, there was no reason for Mooney to speculate otherwise. However, her instincts bugged her. “[I] knew deeply that something
was wrong,” she said. Her shocking diagnosis came soon after and forced her to move back to Boston with her
parents. “I was more upset about having to move in with my parents than I was about this cancer diagnosis,”
Mooney joked. The reality set in when she was informed by doctors that the cancer was also in her liver
and had spread through the rest of her body. As Bridget received her diagnosis, she was told that chemotherapy was
simply there to keep her alive and that she shouldn’t plan to live past 30. Bridget has different plans. She
said that she wants to be able to call those doctors and invite them to her 50th birthday party.

Ending her speech, Mooney wanted to make sure that she imparted to the audience both wisdom and a call to
action: With changes on a national and local level, Mooney believes that all women, young and old, can have the
wisdom and strength to fight against this epidemic. One in every eight women will be diagnosed with breast cancer in
their life and 40,000 people will die from the disease this year. “Doctors must know how to handle tumors in
young women, and they must take them more seriously,” Mooney said. Mooney has advice for young women as well. “No
young person should be sent to college without having a doctor in the city where they attend school,” she said.
“No woman should ever have a health scare and be unsure of where to turn for help.” Mooney’s concluding words
about her outlook on life applied to everyone. “You cannot plan for everything,” she said. “Don’t plan your whole life
out and set certain goals to attain. Don’t measure yourself based on the accomplishments of your peers. Let go and
enjoy where you are in this moment. Reflect on all that you have accomplished as opposed to planning for the
next accomplishment.”

Courbet lecture paints a picture for students

By ALISSA CURRAN
News Editor

Last night in the Seman Lecture Hall, Petra ten-Doesschate Chu, professor of Art History at Seton Hall University, discussed the
significance of Gustave Courbet’s renowned reputation within the arts and his less well-known role in French politics during his lifetime.
Chu analyzed Courbet’s work within the context of his life experiences as well as Courbet’s personal interpretation of his own
work as a coherent and autobiographical series. Chu laid the foundation for the latter half of her lecture by first
explaining Courbet’s political activism. Born in 1819 in Ornans, France, Courbet was a young adult at the time of Napoleon
III’s reign during the Second Empire. The French reacted negatively to the oppressive andmilitant nature of the empire and started
a civil war, marking the end of the empire and Napoleon III. The makeshift government that replaced the empire, known
as the Commune, provided Courbet with the venue in which he was politically active. Due to this, Courbet is a
well-known figure in French culture and history. The French also applaud Courbet for his passionate efforts to remove Napoleon III
from French culture symbolically. The Colonne de la Grande Armée in France, an important monumental figure today, was created by
Napoleon III and originally had a large Napoleon figure on the top of it, a grand symbol of French imperialism
at this time. Upon Napoleon’s exile, Courbet played an active role in having the monument torn down. “The French really
saw this as destroying the final vestige of imperialism,” Chu said. Beyond his rebellious nature and political activism as a
young adult, Courbet is also

See Courbet, page 4

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19, 2008

Davidson Mayor John Woods has proclaimed Friday, March 21, 2008, to be... Wildcat Day. All residents and students are encouraged
to wear their red “Wildcat Gear” proudly.

Professors quell myths of Davidson academics

By JULIA EDWARDS
Staff Writer

Last Wednesday’s Academic Policy Forum allowed students to voice their concerns about the Davidson workload and get a better sense
of what professors expect from them. The forum was entitled “Debunking the Myths and Learning the Tricks of the Trade,”
and was the second in a series sponsored by the SGA Academic Policy Committee. The Academic Policy Committee is a
branch of the Student Government Association that seeks to engage faculty, trustees, and other students.

The faculty panel included Dr. Sophia Sarafova, Professor of Biology, Dr. Hilton Kelly, Professor of Education, Dr. Karmella Haynes, Professor
of Biology, and Dr. Hansford Epes, Professor of German and the Registrar. Epes opened the forum with a review of
statistics about Davidson’s workload and GPA. Epes, a faculty member for 44 years, said he has always heard it rumored
Davidson has the hardest workload in the country, second only to Stanford, but he has not seen data to support
this claim. He fears the rumor encourages defeatist attitudes in students’ academic efforts.

According to Epes, statistics show Davidson students earn relatively high grades compared to other institutions. He reported that at the
end of last semester the average GPA was 3.08, the median grade received was B+, and 34.9% of grades received
were A and A-. Contrary to a popular rumor, Epes said that when comparing applicants, graduate schools do not add
points to Davidson GPAs to account for grade deflation. However, admissions offices at graduate schools do factor in the difficulty
of the undergraduate curriculum. He said they may also take the performance of previous Davidson graduates into account in admissions
decisions.

The faculty panel agreed that a professor’s letter of recommendation often speaks louder than a student’s GPA. Panelists believe Davidson’s
strong student-teacher ratio gives students an advantage in forming relationships that yield strong professor recommendations. “The key is for students
to pick the teachers that really know them and know the reasons why they would be good for the position,”
Kelly said. “Too many students just go to the teacher who gave them the best grade and miss getting those
strong personal letters.”

Meikaela Zwieryznski ’10, student liaison to the faculty’s Education Policy Committee, facilitated a discussion on faculty-student relationships. Both students and
faculty discussed their difficulties with and expectations for each other. Many students said that the Davidson workload is manageable as
long as other commitments do not get in the way. When tests or extra-curricular activities demand additional time, the balance
is thrown off and students may fall behind. “Too many students are suffering in silence,” Haynes said. “Rather than coming
in and asking questions or explaining their situation, students try to do it alone and fall further behind.” Epes agreed,
adding that according to professors, over 50% of students who received failing grades last semester did not actively seek help.
“Going through the door is the first step,” said Epes. “Professors are human; so are you. Why can’t you talk
to each other?”

The last academic forum of the semester will be held on April 9 at 7:30 p.m. in the Sprinkle Room.
During the forum, President Ross will discuss the academic future of Davidson.

TO THE CLASS OF 2008

You are invited to attend “Fiscal Fitness”
A Seminar for Davidson College Seniors
-- Helping You Manage Your Money --
by Professor Ben Baker and President Emeritus Robert F. Vagt

Saturday, April 5, 2008
9:00am to 4:00pm
(with a break from noon to 1:00pm for lunch on your own)
Hance Auditorium, Chambers Building

Space is limited. Registration is required. To register, please email Linda Ray at liray@davidson.edu.

- Budgeting — How far will that salary really go?
- Simple tax return preparation — How bad is the bite?
- The importance of wills — You can’t take it with you, but who will get it?
- Purchasing a home vs. renting
- General banking, loans, etc.
- Investing: strategies and vehicles
- Buying a car: Volvo vs. Maserati
- Life insurance
