THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2008

Curry shoots Wildcats past N.C. State, WVU

Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

Mission accomplished. Davidson defeated North Carolina State 72-67 Saturday at Time Warner Cable Arena, defeating an ACC school after going 0-3 against the conference last year. They also tacked on a 68-65 victory over West Virginia in Madison Square Garden as part of the Jimmy V Classic last night.

Stephen Curry ’10 continued his torrid start to the season, tying a career-high with 44 points including the final ten for the Wildcats. Andrew Lovedale ’09 added 12 points and nine rebounds and Ben Allison ’12 added seven points. Curry hit the dagger with 1:21 to play, hoisting up a 30-footer from his hip as the shot clock wound down and getting nothing but net to give Davidson a 70-66 lead. As he strolled down court, Curry pointed to NBA superstar LeBron James, who was sitting courtside to watch his friend play. James and the rest of the 11,500 in attendance witnessed the smaller Wildcats pounding the glass, offsetting their 37% shooting performance by leading 21-12 on the offensive boards.

The Wildcats got off to a slow start, falling behind 11-2 in the first five minutes. They began to rally, but received a tough blow when defensive starter Max Paulhus Gosselin ’09 was ejected for a flagrant foul with 11 minutes to play in the first half. Gosselin’s attempt to reject the fast-break lay-up of Trevor Ferguson resulted with Ferguson lying sprawled under the basket. Davidson pulled within one before entering intermission down by four, 41-37.

Davidson came out of the locker room strong, taking a 56-50 lead with just under ten minutes to play. The Wolfpack fought back, however, tying the game at 62 with 4:11 to play. It was here that Curry asserted himself, however, out-scoring NC State 10-5 the rest of the way to lead his team to victory. The Wolfpack had a chance to tie the game, but Brandon Costner missed a three-pointer with eight seconds left while down 70-67. Curry then hit two free throws to ice the game. Costner led the Wolfpack with 18 points and 11 rebounds. Ben McCauley also had a double-double, tallying 16 points and ten rebounds.

The Wildcat showcase continued last night as the ’Cats beat the Mountaineers in a hard-fought and physical contest. Curry struggled mightily from the field for most of the game, at one point going 1-16. But he made up for it with a late-game rally reminiscent of so many others he has already pulled in his brilliant career, scoring 13 of his team’s final 15 points as Davidson rallied from a late three-point deficit. He also dealt out ten assists to offset his 9-of-27 shooting. Davidson was also aided by Lovedale’s 15 points and Allison’s 10 points on 5-5 shooting. The Wildcats shot only 43% from the floor, but still managed to out-do the Mountaineers, who shot a paltry 33%. West Virginia was kept in the game due to its monstrous 25-11 advantage on the offensive glass.

The Wildcats jumped out of the gates and hustled their way to a 36-29 halftime advantage. They extended their lead to eleven after the first two minutes of the second half before the scrappy Mountaineers scratched and clawed their way back into the game. A 21-7 run gave them a 54-51 lead with just under six minutes to play before Curry began to assert himself. After beginning the game 1-13 from three-point range, Curry tied the game at 56 with a bomb from beyond the NBA three-point line with just under five minutes to play. His next

See Wildcats, page 1

---

photo by Evan Mintz
Stephen Curry ’10 tied a career-high with 44 points in the ’Cats’ 72-67 victory over N.C. State on Saturday. It was Curry’s fourth 40-point game of his career.

---

’Cats end losing streak, open SoCon play 2-0

---

photo by Ron Robinson
Monica Laune ’10 poured in a career-high 15 points in theWildcats’ 95-75 victory over Appalachian State.

Player of the Week
Alex Thompson ‘10

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL
ASHEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

After a long and enduring stretch of tough road games, the 'Cats opened up their conference schedule with wins against Furman and Appalachian State. Pushing the brutal preseason schedule behind it, the team sets its sights on the chain of conference matchups ahead.

The team’s first test came against the Towson Tigers in Baltimore, MD, on Nov. 14. While the reputable Colonial Athletic Association program pulled out a 76-58 victory over the Wildcats, the trip to Mercedes Robinson ’09’s hometown meant more than just a single game. The team spent an afternoon at Robinson’s high school alma mater, working with the girls’ basketball team there. For head coach Annette Watts, the experience was worthwhile. “It’s just a fun time for us to spend time with her family and friends and just do some good things,” said Watts.

While the team found good things off the court, it still faced major difficulties on the court in the following weeks. Next stop: Columbia, SC, to take on the Gamecocks of the much-respected Southeastern Conference. It was another rough night for the ’Cats, just a day before Thanksgiving break, as they fell 47-68.

While most Davidson students relaxed at home the weekend after Thanksgiving, the team trekked to Nashville, TN, for a holiday tournament at Vanderbilt. The Wildcats faced off against the hosts in the first round of the tournament — yet another test against an SEC power. Despite a strong showing in the first half, the ‘Cats’ energy petered out in the second, and Vandy took advantage with an 82-50 win.

The consolation round of the tournament defied the word consolation itself. Davidson was pitted against St. Joseph’s, a team Coach Watts knew beforehand would not prove a good match. But the ’Cats persisted, hanging within 10, only to drop a 68-78 decision. On high individual notes, Robinson and Ashley Lax ’11 posted their highest point totals of the season — Robinson with 24 and Lax with 19.

Two weeks and four losses later, the team had to regroup. “That stretch wasn’t the best for our confidence,” Robinson said. She and the team try to focus on the positives instead. “What we can take from it is that we can definitely compete at that level.” Watts admits, “I do wish I had gone just a little bit easier [with the schedule].” She, however, recognizes the necessity of a tough preseason. “This team, to mature how we need to mature and be where we need to be in March, we need this.”

On Dec. 2, the ’Cats kicked off their conference schedule against Furman. It was a welcome trip home and perfect opportunity for the players to vent out some frustration. “Coming into conference, we really have a chip on our shoulder,” Robinson said. “We’re trying to prove a lot of people wrong and make a name for ourselves.” Coach Watts, all the while, was not worried one bit.

See ’Cats, page 11

With the ‘Cats nursing a 67-66 lead with 1:21 to play,

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Curry’s long three seals victory over Wolfpack

The junior guard was unconscious from behind the arc as she made nine of 12 three-point attempts, including eight in a row to finish the game, on her way to scoring a career-high 35 points in the ‘Cats 95-75 win over Appalachian State. The nine three-pointers set new Davidson and Southern Conference records while her 35 points tied the school record for points in a game.

Stephen Curry ‘10 nailed a three-pointer from well behind the NBA three-point line as the shot-clock expired to go ahead 70-66 and all but assure a win for the Wildcats. Curry tied a career-high with 44 points in the contest and was named National Player of the Week by collegehoops.net and ESPN’s Weekly Watch.