THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, October 29, 2008

Diwali celebration comes to Davidson

STACIE BINNEY
Staff Writer

I'll admit it: the only aspects I had previously known about Diwali stemmed from Kelly Kapoor and Dwight Schrute on
The Office, season three, disc one. But this past Sunday night, my cultural awareness strengthened as holiday lights and saris
adorned the 900 Room, welcoming Diwali, the Hindu Festival of Lights.

Sponsored by the Asian Cultural Awareness Association, Interfaith and the Curry Club, this significant Indian Festival brought both the social
closeness and the natural light closely associated with this holiday. After being welcomed and invited to share in receiving a
bindi, or the red ornamental dot on the foreheads of South Asian women, the ceremony began.

“Diwali” literally stems from the translation of “row of lamps” and the lights of Diwali have come to signify good
luck as well as good triumphing over evil. Diwali commemorates the Good King Rama’s defeat over Ravana, the evil king
of demons. After this epic battle, King Rama was sent into exile for fourteen years, after which he was welcomed
back into his kingdom Ayodhya. As the townspeople rejoiced in his return, they lit small oil lamps in his honor
and to ward off any demons of misfortune, an honor still practiced today.

“Back home during Diwali, all the houses are lit up too with the diyas, which are like cotton balls dipped
in oil, set on clay pots and lit,” said Jenny Vaidya ’11. “The lights show the gods into homes.”

The platform normally used for Live Thursday gigs was dotted with flowers and small candles in our celebration of this
ancient holiday. After the narration, Shamita Punjabi ’12 chanted traditional prayer rituals to the Ganesh, the elephant god of wisdom
and good luck, and Hanuman, the monkey god of strength and devotion. The second prayer, chanted completely from memory and
depicting the devotion of Lord Hanuman to Rama, lasted around five minutes and created a beautiful atmosphere of traditional Indian
culture.

“My mother taught me that chant when I was little,” said Shamita. “My language is called Sindhi, which is a
little different from the language of Hindi. Still, the fact that I know what the chant is talking about really
means a lot to me.”

Continuing with the ritualistic celebration of Diwali, two Indian priests honored the stage with a traditional puja, a ritual showing
respect to the gods. The preparation of such a ritual involves all-natural materials, such as rice, clean water, sugar and
the only fabric created by God, cotton. This preparation teaches patience and tolerance in the time it takes. It is
an important Hindu tradition.

A young boy celebrates Diwali by lighting candles. The holiday celebrates light and...

These pujas traditionally honor the goddess of wealth and good fortune, Maha Lakshmi. Light, of course, is a main ingredient
in such an important ritual, which signifies knowledge and “evokes the spiritual identity,” the priests noted during the preparation. “It’s
an eternal joy,” they said.

After the sacred offerings, prayers and acceptance of God into their hearts, the attendees ate and enjoyed performances. This year,
Davidson welcomed three members of the Maha Gingrich Dance Troupe. Adorned in elaborate, traditional costumes that took over three hours
to prepare, the troupe performed three special pieces for the audience. Each dance was between two and three thousand years
old and sought the blessings...

See Diwali, page 6

Opera workshop educates, informs

JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

Let’s eradicate a few myths about opera. First, it is not just for the elite. Contrary to some long-held beliefs,
opera is not reserved exclusively for the wealthy, musically erudite or linguistic pundits. In fact, opera is becoming increasingly popular
among a broad spectrum of audiences, thanks to a definite resurgent interest in the arts.

Secondly, opera is not snobby. True, stereotypically regarded as snobby, many operas are light-hearted and amusing. When it began in
Italy in the late 16th century and gained popularity into the 19th century and beyond, the upper classes of Europe
and Russia turned to opera as a refined form of entertainment, and the U.S. assumed this attitude soon after.In addition,
operas were performed in foreign languages such as French, Italian, German, and Russian, which would have been understood exclusively by
the natives or those fortunate enough to have studied languages. However, today, most operas are translated and the librettos are
projected above the stage for the audience’s comprehension. Thirdly, opera is not boring. Despite its reputation, most likely gained from
sources such as Wagner’s dense, three-hour epic cycles, there is actually quite a lot to be appreciated between the sometimes
bold, oftentimes romantic recitatives and arias. Vying to popularize opera and broaden its appeal, large opera houses such as the
Met in New York are bringing the high C’s to HD, where full-length operas are broadcasted as live films in
various theatres around the country. And in the continual quest to expose opera’s accessibility, this fall will see Davidson’s latest
addition to its already rich art scene with an impressive and challenging feat: a staged opera concert.

See Opera, page 6

LIVING

Relive that ghostly feeling

JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Arts & Living Editor

Halloween should be considered one of the best holidays of the year. Pumpkins transform from common gourds into illuminated fiends.
Humans also undergo a similar transformation, as anyone from two-year-old girls to 40-something CEOs don costumes and, for one night
at least, forget their true identity. There’s also free candy, which definitely should not be forgotten. But like all good
things, Halloween, sadly, must come to an end. The angst-filled teenagers smash pumpkins after removing their costumes, which have become
too tight from all the candy bars. But the spirit of Halloween can live on. In fact, for many places
around the world, the scary, creepy aura of Halloween never dies. So next week, when you crave that good old
ghoulish fun of Oct. 31, simply pack a bag and spend the night in one of the Southeast’s many haunted
hotels. And conveniently, all the hotels in this article are within a day’s drive of Davidson: three and a half
hours to Charleston, three to Chapel Hill, and just two to Asheville.

Charleston, SC contains a wealth of history, because the city’s vast historical district is extremely well-preserved. Here, when stately homes
grace tree-lined streets, it would only seem appropriate that history comes back to haunt this city in numerous ways. A
quick Internet search on Charleston’s attractions yielded listings for walking and horse-carriage ghost tours, as well as haunted sites. The
city’s ties to the slave trade and civil war are the most frequent subjects of supernatural tales. The luxurious Battery
Carriage House Inn was built in 1843. The Los Angeles Times deemed it “among the most romantic of Charleston’s Inns.”
On the Inn’s website, one guest commented that their stay was “excellent...a charming experience.” Apparently, this guest did not encounter
the famed “gentleman ghost.” This apparition first made himself known to guests in 1992. He only appears to the lucky
females, hence his name, and is notorious for making certain “requests.” Female patrons should not feel threatened; if the woman
objects, the harmless “gentleman” vanishes. Rumor has it that the spirit is the ghost of a Yale student, who stayed
at the hotel in the early 1900s and, for unknown reasons, jumped off the Inn’s roof and committed suicide. The
Inn has ten rooms, and rates in the winter start at $279 a night, based on double occupancy.

Next on this haunted tour is the Carolina Inn in Chapel Hill, N.C. Like the Carriage House Inn, praise abounds
for this spot--AAA granted the hotel four stars. Its dining room also boasts a prestigious Mobil Four Star rating. This
hotel should also win a four-star “haunted” award. On the third floor of the Inn, one room in particular has
been singled out for paranormal activity. Dr. William P. Jacocks, a physician, retired to Chapel Hill and lived in this
room at the inn from 1948 to 1965. Jacocks died in his bed there, and now he frequently returns and
plays harmless pranks on guests. His favorite trick is to lock patrons out of their room, which he still thinks
of as his own. During one incident, Dr. Jacocks proved so stubborn that the hotel’s staff had to climb up
a ladder and enter the room through the window in order to unlock the door.

See Haunted, page 6
