10 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2008

Message to the Big Boys: Play Road Games!
Curtis YOUNG
Staff Writer

Each year, March rolls around and we hear the same arguments. Who did you play? Who belongs in the NCAA
Tournament? Who deserves the NIT? Which team got jobbed by the committee? Selection Sunday has become a sort of national
holiday, and the pundits love to argue and push forward their relative agendas. All of the aforementioned questions are legitimate,
but we need to add one more: where did you play?

College Basketball analyst Jay Bilas has long harped on his “given day” theory. He suggests that, because the NCAA Tourney
is an opportunity to compete for the national championship, teams must have proven that they can beat other top teams
in order to deserve an at-large bid. On the surface, it’s a sound theory. Digging deeper, though, we find an
enormous flaw. Because of the power structure of college basketball, major conference teams rarely play nonconference games on the road.
Some do better than others, but most trust the fact that their schedule will get enough of a boost by
having to play teams in their conference.

Let’s briefly examine the situation, using this season’s Davidson team, ranked no. 20 in the preseason polls, as our example.
Davidson plays an exceptional nonconference schedule, with games against Purdue, Duke, N.C. State, and Oklahoma on the docket. The locations
for those games: Indianapolis, Durham, Charlotte, and Norman. How many of the major games will be played in Belk Arena?
Zero. Taken further, the last team from a major conference to grace Belk Arena with its illustrious presence? That would
be Quin Snyder’s Missouri Tigers in December 2005. Those of us lucky enough to be at that game watched the
Cats grab an early twenty-point lead and cruise to an 82-73 win. Remember, folks, while the 'Cats were very experienced
and good that season, that was before Stephen Curry ‘10 and the current group made Davidson lifers remember the glory
years under Lefty Driesell. Back then, Davidson was your typical mid-major program. And a talented group of Tigers left Belk
Arena with their tails between their legs.

So who have been the worst culprits? Well, having familial connections at Duke, I am often subjected to that argument.
Allow me to first say this: I give Duke tremendous credit for playing good mid-majors every season. Duke has continued
its series with Davidson even as the ’Cats have risen to prominence, and for that I give Coach K due
respect. But we need to examine some other facts as well. In the 2006-2007 and 2007-2008 seasons combined, Duke played
a total of one true road game (on its opponent’s home floor — not home city) in its nonconference slate.
Yep, one. That game? At St. John’s in Madison Square Garden. Having watched Duke play in the Garden, trust me
when I say they had a fairly solid contingent at that game. Duke’s results in the past two NCAA tournaments
speak for themselves. Despite having been the better seed in each game, the Blue Devils have gone 1-2, with unimpressive
losses against VCU and West Virginia.

I like Coach K and the way that Duke plays. I respect their hustle, intensity, and the fact that they
seem to show up well-prepared for each game. Their schedules in the nonconference have set them up for those failures,
though. I will admit that Duke has vastly improved this season, with road games at Purdue and Michigan headlining their
schedule. Other culprits have included UNC, Syracuse, and UConn, among many others.

So why the fear of the early loss? What does Duke lose by traveling to Belk Arena and dropping a
game to Davidson? I would argue very little. Assuming they are as good as advertised, Duke still would receive a
high seed in the NCAA Tournament. Last I checked, a team still had to win six straight games against solid
competition to capture a National Championship. Forgive me if I fail to see the logic in a nonconference slate full
of home games. With so few road games, a team like Syracuse shows up as the higher seed at an
NCAA site, has the crowd turn against it in a close game against a team of shooters that plays together,
and it does not know how to react. Jim Boeheim’s teams are accustomed to playing at UConn and Georgetown. But
playing in an unfamiliar site against a team they know little about? Not so much.

Major teams should play true road games in the nonconference, even if it means a loss. It also gives us
a better idea of what the little guys can do playing a fair slate. Less controversy? Maybe, maybe not. But
I’m sure plenty of people would love to see Duke play in Belk. Unfortunately, that’s a sight we’ll never see.

Volleyball falls at home in season finale
ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

The Wildcats’ volleyball team finishedIts regular season of play ended after two home matches on Friday and Sunday. On Friday
night, the 'Cats hosted the Wofford Terriers, losing 3-0 (25-17, 25-21, 25-23). Kittery Neale ’09 was a strong asset for
the Davidson offense with 9 kills. Both Madison Benedict ’12 and Jorden Benedict ’11 had six kills for the 'Cats
while setter Hayley Lawson ’11 had 26 assists. For the Davidson defense, Neale had six digs and Jennifer Chamblee ’11
had 16. The 'Cats continued their weekend play with a Sunday decision against the Furman Paladins. The 'Cats lost in
three sets, 3-0 (25-19, 25-21, 25-14) in the senior recognition match. A pre-game ceremony was held, honoring the team's six
retiring seniors: Brittany Narr ’09, Alison Dwyer ’09, Tierney Hodge ’09, Lindsey Paroczai ’09, Megan Parks ’09, and Neale. For
the 'Cats, Neale led the way with seven kills and three blocks while Lawson tallied 24 assists. Christine Perzinski ’12
led the defense with 10 digs. After the weekend’s play, the 'Cats earned a spot as the fourth seed in
the Southern Division for the conference tournament. Davidson will take on No. 1 seeded Samford this Friday at 12:30 p.m.
at UNC-Greensboro.

The Wildcats hope to celebrate a win over Samford on Friday in the first round of the SoCon Tournament.

Men’s Basketball (2-1, 0-0)
Results:
11/14 vs. Guilford W 107-83
11/17 vs. JMU W 99-64
11/18 vs. #12/14 OU L 82-78
Next Up:
11/22 @ Towson
11/24 @ South Carolina

Women’s Basketball (1-1, 0-0)
Results:
11/15 @ Winthrop W 61-40
11/16 vs. Ole Miss L 50-55
Next Up:
11/21 vs. Winthrop
11/24 vs. TBA
11/25 vs. TBA
Notes: Mercedes Robinson ’09 and Alex Thompson ’10 were named to the All-Tournament Team of the Winthrop Hilton Garden Hill
Classic. Stephen Curry ’10 was named SoCon Player of the Week for the ninth time in his career.

Wrestling (0-2, 0-1)
Results:
11/15 vs. Duke
11/15 vs. Campbell
11/15 vs. Buffalo
Next Up:
11/23 Keystone Classic (Philadelphia, P.A.)
Notes: The team looks to get back on track as it travels north for the Keystone Classic.

Volleyball (12-19, 7-11)
Results:
11/14 vs. Wofford L 0-3
11/16 vs. Furman L 0-3
Next Up:
11/21-11/23 SoCon Tournament (Greensboro, N.C.)
1st Round vs. Samford
Notes: The Wildcats earned the final seed in the weekend’s SoCon Tournament and open tourney play against top-seeded Samford in
Greensboro.

Sam O’Hair ’09 posted the Wildcats’ lone win against Newberry in their season opener at Chattanooga. Kris Hendershot, Staff Writer

The Davidson men’s wrestling team, led by head coach Bob Patnesky and assistant coaches Joe Privitere and Julio Arce, faced
Southern Conference opponent The University of Tennessee at Chattanooga and non-conference opponent Newberry in a tri-meet on November 8th. The
'Cats lost to Chattanooga 46-0 and also fell to Newberry 39-4 in Chattanooga, Tennessee. The match against Chattanooga was particularly
difficult as Davidson couldn’t gain any momentum. Sam O’Hair ’09 wrestled a great match at the 184-pound weight class with
a close 6-3 defeat. O’Hair performed well against Tyler Roberson of Chattanooga. In the heavyweight bout, Charlie Wolff ’11 was
defeated in a very close 3-1 contest. Wolff and O’Hair were very close to notching a victory in the meet
but just fell short. It was difficult for the Wildcats to face a conference opponent in their first meet of
the season. Davidson will look to build off of some of the positive matches and turn those points into victories.

The second match of the tri-meet was against Newberry College, a member of Division II. The match got off to
a rough start with Newberry collecting pins in the first two weight classes, 125 and 133. In the 165-pound bout,
Tyler Mullen ’12 came very close to his first victory of the season with a 9-7 loss. The bout gave
the Wildcats a little momentum and confidence. O’Hair came away with his first victory of the season, 10-2. The victory
gave Davidson their lone four points. However, Davidson showed a lot of heart as they never gave up and definitely
have positives to improve upon. The final result of the tri-meet was Chattanooga’s defeat of Newberry 24-16. Newberry proved to
be a very tough Division II team for both SoCon members. After the disappointing results, the team looked to recover
at home. Last Saturday, Davidson hosted a quad-meet against Duke University, The State University of New York at Buffalo, and
Campbell University. Results were unavailable as of Tuesday.
