a) 

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SEC competition to a track and field squad that consistently rewrote the record books in that sport. With all the really tall guys who always ended up on ESPN and CBS for some reason, every week gave me the privilege of talking to and reporting about the student-athletes (in our case not an oxymoron) that make our campus unique. This column is my opportunity to thank everyone for this blessing.

Patrick McArdie yells with reckless abandon after the Wildcats beat Wisconsin in Detroit.

First off, thanks to all of the athletes and coaches for making this section easy to write every week. Without your support, the section would crumble. Secondly, thanks to all of this year’s editors of The Davidsonian for supporting me. Tolerating my jokes as Tuesday nights become Wednesday mornings is no easy task, but you all weathered that storm with good humor and always helped me if I needed a safety net. Everyone who works on the paper knows how it often seems a thankless job, but I hope this thank you helps.

There are a few individuals who deserve special recognition. To my first co-editor Will Bryan: Thanks for teaching me the ropes and letting me figure out the job at a comfortable pace. Your guidance and friendship was a huge help in getting settled in the sports section. To my fellow editor this semester, Mike Frongello: Thanks for always being professional, punctual, and easy to work with. I know next year you will do a great job with the section. To my two editors-in-chief, Summerlee Walter and Suzie Eckl, as well as the many managing editors this year: Thank you for the late hours you always put in to make The Davidsonian a special publication. And to this year’s many contributors to the section: Thank you for your hard work all semester long to meet deadlines and produce quality stories.

I know I have missed thanking all those who supported me this year and made this section possible (you know who you are). Thank you. Leaving the sports section this year won’t be easy. Next year will be another to remember, with stories about remarkable players achieving awesome accomplishments. I will miss writing this section and thus living vicariously through them. But thankfully I know, just like our basketball team, this section will be in capable hands.

Baseball (10-28, 2-16)
4/23 vs. Duke Lost 7-8
4/25 at App State Lost 5-10
4/26 at App State Lost 7-8
4/27 at App State Lost 4-5
Next up: 4/30 at Wake Forest
Notes: Shore led the Wildcats’ offense as his batting average for the year was . With fantastic teams on campus, ranging from a women’s soccer team who took down...

SPORTS
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 2008

Seniors finish strong at SoCon
By Patrick McArdie
Sports Editor

The season-long success of the track and field teams continued this weekend at the SoCon Outdoor Track and Field Championships on the campus of Western Carolina. For the women's squad, Brenna Burns ’08 earned her second SoCon individual title in her final college race. On Saturday, Burns ran to a first-place finish in the 10,000 meters with a time of 36:56.24. She followed this performance up with a victory in the 5000 meters on Sunday with a blazing time of 17:40.14.

In another fantastic career finale, Megan Atias '08 won the 3000-meter steeplechase on Saturday with a new school-record time of 11:10.01. She followed up this victory with a third-place finish in the 5000-meter run with a time of 18:02.57. Both Burns and Atias earned double All-SoCon honors by placing at least third in both of their events, and both runners qualified for the NCAA regionals with their runs.

“I am absolutely thrilled with our performance at SoCons this year,” coach Jen Straub said. “We scored the most points in our program’s history, and that is an awesome accomplishment for our girls. The team put together a great meet, and Brenna and Megan were especially great.”

Kennesia Martin ’08 finished eighth in the triple jump with a leap measuring 37 feet 8 3/4 inches (11.50 meters) to score points for the Wildcats. In the relays, the 'Cats finished fourth in the 4x400 with a time of 4:00.68 and fifth in the 4x100 with a time of 51.50. With all of these stellar performances, the team scored a program-best...45 points. On the men’s side, Beaux Jones ’08 and Will Funderburg ’09 continued to impress in the field events. Jones earned All-SoCon honors with a toss of 174 feet 11 inches (53.31 meters) in the javelin throw. This distance was enough to secure him third place in the event. Funderburg earned an All-SoCon ranking of his own after he finished second in the discus throw on Saturday with a throw of 151 feet 2 inches (46.09 meters). Funderburg also finished fourth in the shot put with a throw of 48 feet 2 inches (14.68 meters).

The men also made their mark on the track. Kwame Som-Pimpong ’09 finished fourth in the triple jump on Saturday with a mark of 19 feet 6 1/4 inches (5.95 meters). Brad Troxell ’08, after qualifying for a spot in the finals, finished eighth in the 400 meters with a time of 51.21. Peter Bruton ’10 and Alex Hoyt ’09 also ran good races for the Wildcats. Bruton finished fourth in the 1500 meters with a time of 4:02.99, and Hoyt placed 10th in the 5000 meters with a time of 15:29.79. In the relays, the Wildcats finished third in the 4x100 with a time of 43.99 and fourth in the 4x400 with a time of 3:24.26. Som-Pimpong, Bryce Jones ’11, Will Ames ’11, and Ethan Dunn ’11 earned All-SoCon recognition for the top-three finish in the 4x100. With all the points totaled, the Wildcats collected 38 points to come in fourth place at the tournament.

Croquet repeats as national champs
By PATRICK MCARDLE
Sports Editor

For the second straight year, Davidson’s croquet team brought home championship hardware as winners of the USCA Collegiate Championship in Golf Croquet held at the Merion Cricket Club in Haverford, Pa. Douglas Clark-Brown ’09 and David Orsbon ’09 beat out 14 other two-man teams to claim their second title together in as many years. Both Clark-Brown and Orsbon picked up competitive croquet late in their lives, and they began playing with each other last year. While last year’s win was unexpected, this year the duo went in with a championship to defend. Fortunately, their experience allowed them to persevere against competition from schools like Navy and William and Mary.

The pair played in the qualifying match on Saturday to determine Sunday’s seeding. With wins of 7-5, 7-3, 7-3, and 6-3 and only one loss on the afternoon, the Wildcats tied for the highest rank with Peter Hatfield and Chris Monahan of William and Mary. The Wildcats won the tie-breaking coin toss to secure the important top seed. Sunday started with a match against David Cole and Conor Hargis of the US Naval Academy. Building on their momentum from Saturday, Clark-Brown and Orsbon defeated the sailors by a score of 7-3. Their semi-finals match-up also pitted them against a pair from Navy, this time the duo of Lou Calabrese and Douglas Clague. The teams had history with one another, since Davidson beat this Navy squad in the finals of last year’s competition. Saturday, they beat the pair 7-3 in the qualifying round. While they struggled a bit more on Sunday, Davidson still continued its domination in the matchup, winning the semi-final by a score of 7-5.

Meeting the other top-seeded team in the finals, Davidson used last year’s experience to keep their intensity high. Although Clark-Brown and Orsbon fell behind in the early going, they rallied to win the match 7-6 in dramatic fashion. Clark-Brown and Orsbon will have next year to add a third title to their impressive repeat performance.

Douglas Clark-Brown ’09 and David Orsbon ’09 strategize on their way to winning their second championship.

Women’s Lacrosse (11-5)
4/26 vs. Howard Win
Notes: With the win, the Wildcats finish with an 11-5 final season record. The 11 victories and .688 win percentage both set new Davidson single-season records as they top the 1999 and 2006 seasons, which both saw the ’Cats finish 9-7. Earlier in the season, the team also made history with a school-record, six-game winning streak.