12 THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES

GOP must stay true to itself and accept moderates to remain politically alive

Bryan Norris
Perspectives Editor

Before I begin to elaborate on the headline above, let me say a few things about my political standing. I am undoubtedly a Democrat and a liberal, and yes, I’m writing on the future of the Republican Party. This shouldn’t discourage you from taking my position seriously, however. Though I do identify myself as blue, I am first and foremost an American, and I believe that a weak, misguided conservative party leads to a weak, misguided America.

I’m constantly surrounded by Republicans; of the friends with whom I discuss politics, all but one of them is a conservative. I spent half of my summer interning with a Republican congresswoman from North Carolina. I read the Weekly Standard and I even take time out of my day to listen to Rush Limbaugh. I am well aware of the concerns facing many Republicans and I share many of those concerns when it comes to Barack Obama. Though I voted for him, I was very worried when I saw the 900 Room erupt with the announcement of Obama’s victory. Frankly, I do not understand how anyone could be so incredibly enthusiastic about either candidate winning. I would hope that the majority of America does not align completely, on all issues, with John McCain or Barack Obama. If that is the case, then our country has become hopelessly partisan.

That said, the significance of the election of the first black president is not lost on me, and sitting down to write this article, I am unable to express just how proud of my country and my state I am. However, that is not to say that I am in complete agreement with all of his policies. I am wary of his inexperience and I’m not entirely sure that he can adequately address all of the issues facing our country. He is the first black president, but the fact that he is African-American does not matter nearly as much as his ability to adequately fulfill his role as leader of the free world.

It would be disastrous for both the GOP and the United States if Palin were selected as the face of the Republican Party. In political science, as with any science, answers often lead to more questions, and with the election now decided, this question of Obama’s presidency is certainly an important one to ask. Unfortunately, we won’t know the answers for several years to come, and of more immediate importance is the current state of the Republican Party. The Bush administration, the center of Republican leadership for the past 8 years, is on its way out, and John McCain’s loss on Tuesday means that a clear leader of the conservative party is no longer present. Certainly, parties have been in this position before, but it would seem this time that the GOP is lost without a compass.

CNN recently asked five senior Republican strategists who they thought was the leader of the party. The first two answered, “No one,” the third responded that they “don’t have one,” a fourth said, “Six or eight people think it is them, but no one else agrees,” and the fifth forlornly replied, “Damned if I know.”

It seems to me that the Republican party is in their current position for a number of reasons. First of all, this election was the first in over 50 years in which an incumbent president or vice-president was not on the ticket. This is in large part due to the Bush administration’s unpopularity, which immediately disqualified Cheney as a candidate. From the outset, there was no clear line of succession, and the conservatives are paying for it now. Healthy, intelligent political discourse is the lifeblood of democracy, and if either party adopts a wholly partisan, anti-intellectual position, we’re in for a world of hurt.

The current situation also has a good deal to do with the selection of McCain as the party’s presidential candidate. McCain was not seen by many in the Republican base as a true conservative, as he had been historically moderate on some key issues. The selection of Sarah Palin as his running mate was no doubt made in response to this perceived inadequacy. The two certainly did not see eye to eye, as recent statements by the McCain and Palin camps have made clear, and one could even say that there were two distinct Republican parties on the ticket.

In an opinion piece for National Public Radio, Rod Dreher, a conservative columnist for the Dallas Morning News, identified these two groups and what the failure of the McCain-Palin ticket means for the conservative party: “The civil war among conservatives will be between an enraged rump of die-hard knotheads and a disparate group of reformers. The knotheads believe that Obama’s victory came thanks to the treason of some conservative intellectual elites and McCain’s failure to be more like Reagan... Sarah Palin is the standard-bearer for the talk-radio faction within knotheadism, and Mitt Romney will emerge as the GOP establishment’s last stand.”

Frankly, I couldn’t agree more. The GOP needs to jettison its base under President Bush, the Christian right, in favor of a more centrist sect of voters that is not inherently averse to conservative principles of lower taxes, small government and fiscal responsibility. Sarah Palin represents something dangerous. She comes from a state that is re-electing a corrupt senator found guilty on seven felony charges and a representative who literally violated the Constitution (Rep. Don Young (R) altered a passage in a bill to give several million dollars to a highway in Florida after the document had already been passed by the House and Senate but before it was given to the President). Fox News and NEWSWEEK have both reported that Sarah Palin did not know that Africa was a continent, and that she was unable to list the countries in North America. And let’s not forget her interviews with Katie Couric and PBS. She is a member of and representative for the Christian right, an anti-intellectual and, I believe, ultimately damaging part of the electorate. But we'll get to that in a minute. It would be disastrous for both the GOP and the United States if Palin was selected as the face of the Republican Party.

The question is now how do the conservatives stay true to their core principles and remain relevant. Last week, conservative leaders got together for the first in a series of meetings to try and confront that exact problem. What came out of that first discussion was a bit disheartening. One of the leaders at the meeting, Tony Perkins of the Family Research Council, told CNN that “moderates never beat conservatives... What Tuesdaywas, was a fact that people wanted change, and it’s a rejection of a moderate view.” This is precisely the wrong stance to take, and an inaccurate reading of Tuesday’s events. Looking back at the electoral map, the conservatives held on to the south, with the exception of Virginia and North Carolina, two states with a high influx of well-educated, transplant professionals. McCain failed to capture the major cities in these two states, and the same goes for Indiana, Florida, Ohio, and Pennsylvania. The conservatives won more counties in all of these states, but they did not capture the ones that mattered. Though I do identify myself as blue, I am first and foremost an American, and I believe that a weak, misguided conservative party leads to a weak, misguided America. In order to win the diverse urban populations, the Republicans must appeal to moderates. The GOP needs to jettison its base under President Bush, the Christian right, in favor of a more centrist sect of voters that is not inherently adverse to traditional conservative principles of lower taxes, small government, and fiscal responsibility. This is the exact point Representative Paul Ryan (R-WI) makes when he says that the party must now “run on big ideas, big reforms.” He even says of his neighboring Representative Mark Kirk, a pro-choice, pro-gun control Republican, “We need to welcome people like that and put them up front.” If the Republicans can manage to do this, and do it fast, not only will their party benefit, but America will as well. Healthy, intelligent political discourse is the lifeblood of democracy, and if either party adopts a wholly partisan, anti-intellectual position, we’re in for a world of hurt. Bryan Norris '10 is a political science major from Charlotte, N.C. Contact him at brnorris@davidson.edu.

Wednesday, November 12, 2008

The Kippian Method to Success
Scott Luberto
Guest Writer

We are all aware of the academic rigor of Davidson. Fortunately, a new method for tackling the tough course load has been developed and is sweeping across campus. The Kippian Method, a unique new way to approach large course loads, promises to balance work and stress to maximize time efficiency. A Davidson student created this method to help stressed-out friends deal with their work. The method is a technique to maximize time by working in intense work sessions and actually enjoying free time. Stress seems to be an epidemic here at Davidson; even when students are not working, they are still stressing about the work that they should be doing and their next deadline. The method approaches this issue by utilizing free time for recuperation and promises to leave students with more time, less stress, and a greater feeling of accomplishment.

First, reduce studying time by 75 percent to create more efficient and successful working periods, and create a time log. Chances are that you are spending more time than you think working. However, these sessions are just very inefficient. By logging your study time, you will be able to gauge the efficiency of work.

Next, understand that procrastination does not exist. Just because you’re not working, don’t think you’re doing something wrong. People often spend their free time worrying about upcoming work, which diminishes the relaxing and recuperation of their free time. Under the Kippian Method, individuals focus solely on having a good time and don’t worry about the causes of stress. By maximizing the effectiveness of relaxation time, work sessions are more focused and driven.

Students should also work in short, intense bursts. This will leave them feeling accomplished and with much more free time. People need to feel free to work where they want to work. Just because everyone else goes to the library to work does not make this the best space to study. Different people have different needs when it comes to study areas. Find what works best and run with it.

Music can be a great revitalization tool, which is not to be confused with a study tool. Music can be utilized in between work sessions to provide a means of revitalizing one’s work drive. Classical music, however, at a low volume (cliché, but give it a chance) can be used to focus because of its lack of lyrics and harmonic melody. Avoid popular songs with well-known lyrics, as it can be easy to focus on the words and the tune and pay more attention to the song rather than to your work.

When applying this method to a school setting, remember that just because your professor says one thing does not make them automatically correct. Life is up for interpretation. People must maintain the truths and interpretations that they have while being open to new ideas and thoughts. However, this means they must also be willing to be singled out. If someone wants to be successful, they must be willing to step outside of the pack and go down their own path.

Everyone knows about the importance of sleep, though some feel that, come crunch time, it can be sacrificed. However, sleep is crucial for your body to run effectively. Instead of staying up until 4 a.m. and working on a paper, stay up until 2 a.m., get that extra couple of hours of sleep then wake up and force yourself to work harder. Chances are the extra sleep will revitalize you and result in better work.

Measure friends in quality, not quantity. When it comes down to it, more friends can mean more stress and drama. Make sure to make time for small groups of friends where communication is the focus. Many people take for granted the effectiveness of a shower. Every morning, not night, get up and take a relaxing shower. Enjoy your shower. Think about creative things and the focus of the day.

Finally, RELAX. In the greater spectrum of things, your overall GPA is insignificant. Make sure not to dwell on the past and not worry about the future. All we have as individuals is our legacy, our lasting contributions to society, whether it be to one special child, or to the entirety of the world. Keep everything in focus, and remember that mishaps happen. So next time you are studying for a midterm, remember that while you should focus on the test, do not let the test control you. Work in bursts and don’t freak out. As cliché as it sounds, life is too short and frankly too minuscule for people to spend it stressed out over little things. Chill out, have a good time, and when it’s time to do work, do it.

NOTE: The effectiveness of this method has yet to be sufficiently evaluated as grades have not yet come in for the semester. Scott Luberto ’12 is undeclared. He is from Williamstown, N.Y. Contact him at scluberto@davidson.edu.