4 Tue DAVIDSONIAN

Holocaust, from page 1

hesitation, she said, they would bury bullets into the backs of thousands of innocent Jewish people.

The effort to mass murder millions of people with machine guns was an extremely expensive undertaking, one which the German army really could not afford.

Hitler ordered his army to find a more efficient means of killing the Jews, homosexuals, gypsies, and anyone else who did not fit into his idealistic “Aryan race.”

“We can never forget. If we do, it means that six million innocent people died for nothing.”
-Susan Cernyak-Spatz

Cernyak-Spatz said that the soldiers began using large cargo trucks in an effort to kill more effectively.

They would pack victims into these box containers like rats, and use carbon monoxide to provide what was a quick and certain death.

The problem was, however, that they could only kill around 100 people at a time, an ineffective quantity for the ruthless Hitler.

Thus, the German soldiers began their infamous creation of the extermination camps.

As the seemingly endless line of trains entered the city, Cernyak-Spatz remembers telling her mother not to worry because they would see each other again soon.

“I will always remember the look on her face as I said this,” she said in a voice that was little more than a whisper. “She knew that we would not see each other again. I’m just glad that she went right into the gas chamber so that she didn’t have to suffer.”

As the survivors were shipped into the infamous Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp, they were told to give their clothes to the German officers. They were then forced to wear clothes of executed Russian prisoners, garments that were often covered in dry blood and bullet holes.

Their own clothes were then distributed to the general German population because all of the manufacturing companies were being used to produce weapons.

“The entirety of Germany was being clothed in the garments of massacred Jewish people,” Cernyak-Spatz said.

For those prisoners who were not immediately killed, most were forced into hard labor. Cernyak-Spatz said that prisoners were only given 800 calories worth of food for what was 3,000 to 4,000 calories worth of work. Starving to death was a common occurrence.

“Sometimes people wished that they were the ones ordered to go into the gas chambers because it was a quick and easy death,” Cernyak-Spatz said. “If you were forced to do labor, then death would almost inevitably come later, simply in a slower, more torturous manner.”

Cernyak-Spatz was only able to avoid the gruesome task of hard labor because of her multilingual ability. She was given a job as a secretary in one of the offices at the camp.

For two years she watched as thousands of innocent Jews were killed mercilessly every day. The living conditions themselves were enough to have someone step into the gas chambers willingly.

“Dying was the easy part,” she said.

In barracks that lacked any type of heating or sanitation facilities, two to three people were assigned to each small wooden bunk platform. Water would drip from the leaking ceilings, causing mildew and fungus to envelop much of the living space.

Living quarters were infested with rats, insects, and even human waste: “People learned very quickly to try and get the top bunk.”

At various points during her time in the camp, Cernyak-Spatz said that she was infected with typhoid, scarlet fever, scabies, hepatitis, amongst other sicknesses that were never officially diagnosed.

With the Allied forces approaching the camp in January 1945, the Nazis told all of the prisoners that they were leaving the camp.

In snow that came up to their knees, Cernyak-Spatz and the other prisoners marched westward for weeks on end.

Soon, however, with the end of the war looming nearer and nearer, the Germans turned the Jewish prisoners over to the Allied forces at an American checkpoint.

“We asked one American soldier where we were supposed to go, and he told us to go back to where we came from,” Cernyak-Spatz said.

“I told him that we had come from an extermination camp, so we couldn’t possibly go back there,” she said, “He asked me ‘what is an extermination camp?’”

It was then that I knew that the American soldiers had no idea what had really been going on behind the scenes of the war.”

Cernyak-Spatz moved to the United States in 1946, but she would never forget what was left behind.

“My intention is not to go around giving a history lesson. I want to tell people of these horrible atrocities so that they will never happen again,” she said.

Cernyak continued, “There is a desperate need for people to understand it because similar things have recently been happening in places like Bosnia, Rwanda, and Darfur.

“If we do not grow to understand these things then we are inevitably doomed to repeat them,” she said.

When asked what she thought when prominent world figures such as Iranian President Ahmadinejad claimed that the Holocaust was merely a “myth” fabricated by Western society, she sighed and expressed how she believes that his comments were no more than a political ploy.

“If Mr. Ahmadinejad truly believes what he has said, he should go take a look at the German archives,” she said. “Everything is there.”

Cernyak-Spatz has made informing others of the massacres she witnessed in Auschwitz-Birkenau her life’s mission, and she said she will continue speaking until she is no longer able to effectively articulate her story.

“There is a desperate need for people to understand it [the Holocaust] because similar things have recently been happening in places like Bosnia, Rwanda, and Darfur.”
-Susan Cernyak-Spatz

Rolling up the sleeve on her left arm to reveal a faded tattoo reading “34042,” Cernyak-Spatz looked up and said, “We can never forget. If we do, it means that six million innocent people died for nothing.”