10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MLK Day and sports as serious business
Patrice McArdle, Sports Editor

The sports world always has its fun stories. Just scanning the headlines of any athletic website or publication shows the
media (like this section) orbiting everything from Curry’s jumpshot to the implications of Tom Brady’s walking cast. The drama and
excitement make for great theater, both on and off the field. But amidst the less serious diversions, some stories strike
chords that transcend sports and enter into a wider social arena. Somewhat surprisingly, the foremost case of this variety came
from the world of golf.

For those who know where this story leads and those who don’t, the tale is worth repeating. Kelly Tilghman, an
anchor for the Golf Channel, picked the wrong words when responding to Nick Faldo’s assertion that younger players on the
PGA tour would need to “gang up” on Tiger Woods in order to beat him. Tilghman suggested that they “lynch
him in a back alley.”

Take a minute to let that comment register. Then, if you mirror my reaction, close your gaping jaws, take a
deep breath, and read on.

Incredibly, her inflammatory words are not the source of controversy due to the magnanimous nature of Woods. His statement Tuesday
made it clear he supports Tilghman as a friend and sees her word choice as just an unfortunate accident: “It
was unfortunate. Kelly and I did speak. There was no ill intent. She regrets saying it. In my eyes, it
is all said and done.”

Instead, the issue blossomed with renewed vigor only after the ensuing Golfweek magazine chose a noose as its cover for
its January 19th issue. The editor responsible, Dave Seanor, lost his job after the wave of negative response to the
image.

All of the above can be found buried in the recesses of the national news, but there are two important
reasons why I am taking the time to print it here.

First of all, why is it that at Davidson—the school relentlessly preaching diversity and tolerance for the past semester—I have
not heard one word about this story over Martin Luther King Day? Granted, I remained locked away doing homework on
Monday, but it is still remarkable that I have not heard a syllable about this story, ripe for reflection, in
any corner of campus.

Secondly, the punishments seem out of proportion to me. I understand Tiger’s forgiveness. I agree that he should be allowed
to handle the situation in any way he sees fit. In fact, I believe his example of forgiveness parallels the
charity of Dr. King, acknowledging human fallibility and forgiving a comment that stings so many sensibilities with class and grace.
But with all this said, should the publisher of a tasteless cover suffer for Tilghman’s gaffe because he wanted to
spark debate? I don’t think so. Dialogue needs to occur both nationwide and within the Davidson bubble to hit the
heart of the matter. But the silence on this issue sneaks around insidiously. Unspoken tension proliferates, and opinions remain doggedly
fixed in their isolation.

Sports can be an instrument of change: just think of Jackie Robinson. So listen, Davidson sports fans: cheer until your
voice loses its timbre, but do not let Sweet Caroline drown out your awareness of the wider world and its
tensions. They are played out everywhere, oftentimes in the world of sports first.

SPORTS WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2008

The Celtics will not win it this year
By Omar Picket, Staff Writer

For the first time in a long time, there appears to be more parity in the National Basketball Association than
in the National Football League. While the Patriots’ freight-train effectively ended the NFL season by the end of November, the
race for the NBA championship is wide open. The presumed favorites (the championship-defending Spurs, the Mavericks, the Suns, and the
Pistons) have only managed to hover their way through the season thus far. Other surprise contenders emerged in the Hornets
and the Lakers. But you can’t talk about this NBA season without talking about the best team thus far through
the season: the Boston Celtics. However, despite their gaudy record thus far, and the unavoidable Boston Karma in the air
these days, this star-studded team will fall apart come playoff time.

With a 34-6 record (presuming they’ll win against the Raptors tonight), the Celtics dominate opponents at home as well as
on the road. Their team defense ranks among the NBA’s best, with teams averaging around 87 points per game. With
three legitimate NBA superstars in Paul Pierce, Ray Allen, and Kevin Garnett, Boston has the star power to beat any
team in the NBA. The Celtics also feel a strong sense of urgency, as the Celtics’ “Big Three” are in
their 30s, and know how important an NBA championship is for defining one’s legacy. Not one of the “Big Three”
has won a conference championship, creating a strong desire to not only go deep in the playoffs but to win
it all. Besides, championship teams seem to be growing on trees in the New England area these days. With so
many things to like aboutThe Celtics, why am I so sure that they will falter come playoff time? While NBA
superstars create championship-caliber teams, every championship team has dependable role players. For the “Showtime” Lakers of the late 1980s, it
was A.C. Green and Michael Cooper. For the Bulls dynasty of the 1990s, it ranged from Scott Paxson to Steve
Kerr and Toni Kukoc. Shaq and Kobe’s three-peat lived off great play from Derek Fisher, Rick Fox, and “Big Shot”
Robert Horry. The San Antonio Spurs get clutch postseason play from Bruce Bowen and Brent Barry. While the Celtics have
the superstars, do they have the role players critical to winning championships? Looking at the Celtics' roster outside of the
“Big Three,” it consists of Rajon Rondo, Glen “Big Baby” Davis, and annual waiver wire players like Eddie House, James
Posey, and Brian Scalabrine. I don’t see the clutch postseason play from this group that would elevate the Celtics to
an NBA championship. While the Celtics have the superstars, do they have the role players critical to winning championships? The
Celtics also have a major question mark with point guard Rajon Rondo: is the second-year player ready to lead a
championship team? Looking at this year’s major contenders for the NBA title, one thing these teams have in common is
great play from the point guard position. From Chauncey Billups in Detroit, to Steve Nash in Phoenix, to Tony Parker
in San Antonio, and even Chris Paul in New Orleans, point guard play dictates the success and failures of many
of these championship teams. How will Rondo fare in the playoffs, matching up against the elite point guards of the
NBA? I suspect the NBA playoffs will prove that Rajon Rondo and the Celtics are not ready for championship-level basketball
and are a year away at least from entering that top tier.

Track opens strong at opening UNC meet
By MIKE FRONGELLO
Sports Editor

The Davidson men’s track team opened their season on Saturday afternoon on UNC-Chapel Hill’s campus as they competed in the
UNC Class. Alex Hoyt ’09 and Brad Troxell ’08 led a strong showing by the team in mid-distance events. Hoyt's
mile time of 4:27.11 was good enough for 10th place that afternoon while teammates Blake Evitt ’10 (4:33.81) and Peter
Bruton ’10 (4:33.88) also competed in the mile for the 'Cats, earning 15th and 16th place finishes, respectively.

“Despite some pedestrian performances, we’re confident that we will not only retain our top three spot in conference, but also
that we will continue to set school records.” --Alex Hoyt ’09

Troxell was the top Wildcat finisher in the 800 meter, completing his race in 2:01.82 to earn a 12th place
finish. Jonathan Koch ’11 and Quinn Patton ’10 also placed in the top 20. Koch just edged Patton for 16th
place with a time of 2:05.49, while Patton settled for 18th with a time of 2:05.83. In the short distances,
Will Ames '11 ran to a 22nd place finish in the 200 meter (24.79) and a 23rd place finish in
the 400 meter (54.09). Kwame Som-Pinpong ’09 finished in 25th place in the 60 meter with a time of 7.34.

“Despite some pedestrian performances, we're confident that we will not only retain our top three spot in the conference, but
also that we will continue to set school records and personal bests,” Hoyt said of the performance at UNC. “You
have to remember that last year Doug Noreen opened his indoor campaign with a 4:31 mile, then went on to
win the 800-1500m double at SoCons. A first meet is indicative of little beyond a need for more training.”

The ’Cats will spend this week preparing for this weekend's event: the Patriot Games on the campus of George Mason
University in Fairfax, Virginia.

Men’s Bball
11-6, 9-0
1/18 at UNCG Won 70-59
1/19 vs. UT-C Won 85-58
1/21 at Elon Won 50-40
1/23 at WCU Won 82-67
Next Up: 1/26 vs. Wofford

Women’s Bball
(11-7, 5-2)
1/20 at UNCG lost 33-9
1/20 vs. UVA lost 45-4
Next Up: 1/25 at VMI

Track and Field
(1-5, 0-1)
1/19 UNC Classic
Next Up: 1/26 Patriot Games at George Mason

Swimming and Diving
Men (0-1)
Women (3-6, 1-1)
Next Up: 1/24 vs. Winthrop

Wrestling
1/20 at N.C. State Lost 7-0
Next Up: 1/26 vs. UNCW

Tennis
Men (1-7, 1-1)
Women (0-0)
Next Up: Men: 1/27 vs. USC-Upstate at Co
Women: 1/26 at Liberty

Notes: While recording a double-double against Elon, Danielle Hemerka ‘08 became the 11th Wildcat to reach 1,000 points for her
career.

Notes: The ’Cats are 7-0 since inserting Andrew Lovedale ’10 into the starting lineup on Jan. 3.

Notes: Alex Hoyt ’09 finished 10th in the mile at the UNC Class with a time of 4:27.11 this season.

Notes: Scott Franz ‘09 was selected CCSA Men’s Swimmer of the Week for the third time.

Notes: The Davidson Men’s tennis team will look to redeem itself this week in its home opener against USC-Upstate.

Notes: Trebor Clavette ‘08 was the only Wildcat to win both his matches in the tri-meet against UNCG and UVA.
