THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2008

Carlos Alvarez returns to namesake for Chidsey Lecture

JESSE JOHNSON JR.
Staff Writer

For many students, the Alvarez of the Alvarez Student Union is no longer just another name for a venue. In the 900 Room on Oct. 1, Carlos Alvarez spoke to a large audience as the annual Chidsey Leadership lecturer. Alvarez is the CEO of Gambrinus Company, the producers of Corona Beer. His father started the company, and Alvarez got his start as a teenager delivering beer to supermarkets in Acapulco, Mexico. In 1962 he moved to San Antonio, Texas and opened up a market there for selling Coronas, becoming the founder in the United States. In 2001 he became a citizen of the U.S. Also, Alvarez serves on the Board of Free Chamber of Commerce as well as on the National Board of Trustees here at Davidson.

He began by telling everyone that whatever leadership expectations you have are small expectations that are experienced day to day by your parents. As students, you will eventually come to appreciate your parents’ leadership example through how hard they work at home for you. He told the room of his first experiences with Americans after growing up in Acapulco, Mexico. “I’d look up to the hills and I’d see someone was building,” Alvarez said. “I asked someone what are they building, and they told me that it was Crazy Americans building a home,” Alvarez said. “The ‘Crazy Americans’ were everywhere building homes place to place, driving Cadillacs, were happy and had nice looking women. That’s when I realized, I wanted to be a ‘Crazy American.’”

Alvarez’s friends would always ask him, “How did you do it?” Alvarez jokingly told the room that he likes to brag about his success and stated that he was going to pretend someone asked him that question. At first, in 1981, Alvarez came to Texas and hand sold Corona Beer, which brought success and a surprising reaction. “I had a lot of luck and a great deal of success,” Alvarez said. That is when he decided to expand the Gambrinus Company. Corona became such a huge success that they were universally recognized in bars and restaurants. They were known for their long neck bottles; in fact, Corona Beer was the first beer to offer alcohol in long necked bottles. In 1986, other breweries came out with the same concept because it had such a positive reaction.

Eventually, Corona Beer became too popular for its own good, which caused the brand to decrease, according to Alvarez. At first, it was popular because it was new and that is why people wanted it. Each year since the decline they lost one million cases. Then, the government raised taxes, doubling the sales tax on beer. Instead of raising the price on Corona beer, like other breweries did out of desperation, “I decided to absorb the tax, not pass it along,” Alvarez said. “My company was the only company in the United States that took this action. The other Corona company in the Western United States raised prices too.” Slowly, Alvarez reversed the trend and began to sell more and more cases. In 1991 sales went up 4%. The years that followed sales increased, 15%, 12%, 11%, 28%, 35% and 40%. Other breweries decreased sales by 15%. Corona became the only beer that increased sales in double digits in 11 consecutive years. The total markets in the United States in 1993 reached about 150 million cases. In 2006, which was the last year that Alvarez was the importer, they ended with 83 million cases.

Alvarez then joked that when his friend asked him “How did you do it?” his friend was referring to getting his papers to come to the United States. He went on to tell the room that one of the most difficult things he experienced in the business of doing business in the United States was immigration. “In the U.S. it is a very disturbing image to see that someone is invading by jumping over the fence,” he said. “If you go to New York and see a nanny that is an immigrant. She is no different than any other person.” According to Alvarez, in reality, we live in a very open society. “Many illegal [immigrants] have rights and benefits that no other country would give them,” Alvarez said. “The last bill on immigration that was legislated was twenty-two years ago.” One of the major factors in doing business in the United States was immigration, an issue Alvarez wanted to bring to the audience’s attention.

Alvarez’s lecture then came to a close and he had a question-and-answer period. Someone asked him why he did not put a patent on the long neck bottles. He said because it was a generic idea and was always around, Corona Beer just popularized it. Other breweries created the same concept, but they were lighter in glass. Alvarez went on to explain that the recent bank troubles have not affected his company and that through T-shirts, license plates and commercials advertising played a significant role.Major role in the promotion of Corona Beer. Corona Beer was infringed upon. Do people in Mexico see Corona Beer as an Americanized product? Alvarez told the audience he did not think this was the case. “In Mexico, the people have a great sense of pride, because no other world-class brand of beer in any other Latin American country can say they have done what Mexico has done,” Alvarez said. Finally, someone asked Alvarez why he donated money to build the Union. He told the audience that when he was visiting colleges with his daughter, he was impressed with the Union at a Connecticut school. He went on to say that he was not so impressed with the Union Davidson had to offer when he brought his daughter here to visit, so he invested in the capital project. An anonymous donor made it possible for him to buy the naming rights of the Union. “It could not have been a better opportunity to contribute to Davidson,” he said. Davidson College President Tom Ross then came to shake his hand and thank him. “We are deeply indebted to Carlos,” Ross said. “Not just for the building, but for the service that he gave to this institution in the Board of Trustees. We thank you for everything that you have done and for allowing us to come into your home and enlighten us on leadership.”

The Fag-Hag Theory: from faux pas to fabulous
Ketty Beggs, Staff Writer

Davidson Professor Dr. Maria Fackler and Dr. Nick Salvato of Cornell University illuminated the Fag-Hag Theory at the English Colloquium last Thursday night. The Carolina Inn was packed with English professors and majors, GSA members, and some who would classify themselves as fag-hags. Dr. Ann Fox, who enthusiastically labeled herself as a fag-hag, started the lecture by giving the audience a quiz entitled “Are You a Fag-Hag?” The quiz asked the audience hard-hitting questions such as “What is your favorite Julie Andrews musical?” As the audience struggled to choose between Mary Poppins and The Sound of Music, Fox outed presenters Fackler and Salvato as a hag and her fag. The pair met in graduate school and have remained close friends since. Their relationship has been a motivating force behind this research project, and both showed intimacy with the material. When asked if a fag-hag is monogamous, Fackler responded, “No. I only have one gay husband, but I also have gay boyfriends.”

According to Fackler and Salvato, the fag-hag has been alternately called “fruit fly, flame dame, and homo-honey,” but fag-hag is the label that has persevered. Perhaps it is the catchiness of the rhyme, but the presentation pointed out the ugliness of the words. Even though today’s women may be eager to claim fag-hag status (blame it on the “I-want-a-gay-best-friend” phenomenon), the early usage of the term is overwhelmingly negative. “In its most pervasive usage in the 1970s, the ugly rhyme conjured the stereotype of an often overweight, sexually dysfunctional woman who chose to surround herself with gay men,” Fackler said. In the 1990s, the fag-hag moved into a more flattering light. Fackler and Salvato believe that the AIDS crisis of the 1980s is the reason for the fag-hag’s transition from faux-pas to fabulous. “We posit that AIDS is, if not the only reason, then a clearly major one for the redefinition of fag-hag and, more broadly, for the repositioning of women in both gay community formations and the cultural representations of those formations,” Salvato continued to say. As the female friend rose into the position of caregiver in the AIDS crisis, a new role was created for women in relation to the gay community.

How can you identify a post-AIDS fag-hag? Fackler and Salvato proposed that her main characteristic is effervescence. Her bubbly nature is derived from proto-fag-hags such as Mae West, who styled her behavior after drag queens. She is effeminate (not feminine), in some cases, “a gay man stuck in a woman’s body,” Fackler said. The fag-hags that Fackler and Salvato’s research focuses on are fictional characters Carrie Bradshaw of Sex and the City and Karen Walker of Will and Grace, as well as comedians Kathy Griffin and Margaret Cho. Though humor pervaded the presentation, with the fag-hag, “Laughter can be serious,” Salvato said. He believes that she has the power to “make our democracy more democratic. The fag-hag may cultivate and share a sense of her own political efficacy,” Salvato said. “In so doing, she will make interventions not only in gay politics, where she will show us how to make our communities more inclusive of allies, of trans-subjects, of other sexual dissidents, but also in more broadly construed feminist politics.” But what is the fag-hag without her fag? Fackler answered this question saying, “I do believe they can exist without a gay best friend,” but reassured the audience of her view that if fag-hags haven’t found gay soul mates yet, “they’ll find them in college.”