THE DAVIDSONIAN PROCRASTINATION WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 2008 11

Sudoku Challenge

Easy Tricky Difficult

brainfreezepuzzles.com brainfreezepuzzles.com brainfreezepuzzles.com

Rules: Fill in the grid so that each row, column, and 3x3 block contains the numbers 1-9 exactly once. Answers
on page 14.

Too bad Lawrence did not take the same care with the zombies, called Darkseekers because of their aversion to sunlight.

Like a child after hearing his first ghost story, Neville avoids dark locations such as alleyways and warehouses without windows,
which might harbor a so-called zombie “hive.” When the audience first sees one such hive, the darkness does little to
hide the poorly realized creatures, whose transparent skin and rapid breathing patterns make for an almost cartoonish enemy.

Still, we should give Lawrence credit where credit is due. With only a single man and his dog running around
for three quarters of the movie, it is not easy to keep audience members interested, but keep them interested he
does. Several well-placed flashbacks afford Neville interaction with other humans, depicting the time of the virus outbreak with hysteric mobs
desperate to escape.

In one especially poignant scene, the military drops a bomb to prevent the spread of the virus. Of course, these
relationships are fleeting, and when Neville first sees one such hive, Lawrence reverts to quick camera cuts and cheap scares
to achieve suspense rather than use his smarts for a more sophisticated result.

Tom Cruise represents the American government gone wrong in “Lions for Lambs.”

Inside the Bubble

Lions, from page 9

mission and fly away, Finch jumps off in an effort to save his friend’s life.

The final plot consists of Malley and a student, Todd Hayes (Andrew Garfield), discussing the student’s increasing lack of interest
in his education. Hayes sees no point in doing well in school, only to go on to become a politician,
when lying and cheating seem to be the only way to get elected.

Again, Redford aims his criticism directly at politicians in Washington with Hayes’ frustration. Prof. Malley then proceeds to tell Hayes
about his two former students (now Marines), who interpreted their potential as the ability to fight for their country.

The stories come together in a depressing finale that sums up the failure and dishonest nature of the American government.

The Marines cannot protect their men; the media cannot portray the truth; the government will spin a story in any
way that boosts its reputation. In a sense, Redford’s film serves as a voice for all men and women in
uniform whose roles in this war have as yet gone unnoticed.

VERDICT: * * * *

By Clint Smith

One is far too many Davidson professors...
