8: It is poker night for Davidson's administration. Deans and staff sit in a smoky room, sunglasses on, cards face-down
on the green table. One player throws in a scrap of paper with the words “Kappa Sigma Phi” scrawled across
it. Another throws down the deed to the “Sigma Alpha Epsilon” house.

Or maybe our administration plays the game of musical fraternities. Last one to sit down gets kicked off campus for
a year. Wheel of Fortune? Sorry, Pi Kappa Alpha; this time you're bankrupt.

Many students believe that Davidson's big wigs have it out for Patterson Court, the fraternities in particular. Every decision and
every mandate handed down from on high seems to bring the Court one step closer to obliteration. The majority of
us do not understand it - it might as well be a game of craps.

Most recently, Sigma Phi Epsilon has found itself in the deep end without their floaties on. Again. To say that
fraternities do not screw up and never deserve punishment would certainly be wrong, but SigEp’s most recent fiasco just does
not make sense. For one thing, the SigEp event was completely non-alcoholic. What's even stranger is that the frat is
only just now being held accountable for an incident that occurred during Self-Selection Night, the first weekend of the semester.
Maybe this scheduling issue is not the administration's fault, but how are we, the students, to know?

SigEp has received their formal charges but has chosen to keep them confidential until they receive permission to share the
information. SigEp members want to encourage better relations between themselves and the administration, but the rest of us continue to
speculate what in the world the fraternity could have done to warrant another trial mere weeks after its year-long suspension.

Popular opinion is that the whole trial is a conspiracy against the Court, that it is meant to phase out
Greek life on campus gradually. We all know that several members of the faculty have expressed their aversion for both
fraternities and eating houses, and perhaps this is just the administration acting out the faculty's wishes.

Whether or not this is the case, there is no doubt of a disconnect between students and the rest of
the Davidson community regarding Patterson Court. Regular faculty-student exchanges have addressed such issues over the last few months, but they
haven't reduced massive student cynicism that has escalated over the last few years.

SigEp’s trial has been scheduled for next Thursday, May 1, at 7 p.m. and will be open to the public.
We encourage concerned students to support the organization.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl

Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Katherine Miller

News Editors
Kate Kelly & Nina Mace

Perspectives Editors
Laura Van Oudenaren & Matt Petit

Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Errington & Caroline Wood

Yowl Editors
James Boswell & Alex Hoyt

Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Patrick McArdle

Photography Editor
Ben Ellinor

Copy Editor
Gretchen Hoffman

Business, Advertising and Circulation Managers
Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Jamie Hofmeister

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to:
The Davidsonian, Box 7188, Davidson, NC 28035. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect
the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00 per year.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR
THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 23, 2008

HIV/AIDS posters play important role

In her April 16, 2008 editorial, Laura Van Oudenaren criticizes the Student Health Center posters promoting HIV testing. Here are
some facts she should consider:

Today, HIV/AIDS is the sixth leading cause of death among all women in the U.S. between the ages of 25
and 34. HIV/AIDS is also the leading cause of death among women of color in the U.S. between the ages
of 25 and 34. Roughly 80 percent of women newly infected with HIV in the U.S. are exposed to the
virus through heterosexual contact. Today, approximately half of all new infections in the U.S. occur in people under 25 years
of age.

Does the poster suggest that a confident, trendy woman may be HIV-positive? Yes. Does the poster suggest that a woman
who wears make-up may be HIV-positive? Yes. Does the poster suggest that a woman with a nose piercing may be
HIV-positive? Yes. In fact, the poster suggests that every woman who is sexually active may be HIV-positive and should be
tested. That is the message this poster conveys.

Ms. Van Oudenaren concludes by contending that the poster "damages the image of the school." I contend that knowing one's
HIV status and preventing even a single new HIV infection greatly outweighs any concerns about image.

David R. Wessner, Ph.D.
Associate Professor of Biology

Burton, Cook distort issue of low GPAs
ALISSA IREI
Guest Columnist

Last week, in response to the Student Government Association's recent report finding Davidson's mean GPA to be the lowest of
11 of its peer institutions, two members of our academic community wrote unconvincing and, at times, overtly insulting critiques of
student concerns about possible grade “deflation,” and the overall competitiveness of Davidson and its students.

First, Kevin Cook articulated an infuriatingly offensive and embarrassingly ill-reasoned argument in which he likened the Davidson student body to
“someone running a race, coming in last and then claiming that the only reason they did so badly is because
their shoes slowed them down.” He dismissed the notion that Davidson's relatively low mean GPA is due to grade deflation
here or grade inflation atOther schools, chalking it up instead to poor performance. Sadly, Cook seems to believe that Davidson
students are either lazier or less intelligent than their peers. Or both. If Cook aimed to insult Davidson students, faculty,
and alumni, then I applaud his success. And while he implies that he is disappointed in the Davidson student body,
I, as a Davidson student, am wholeheartedly disappointed in him. If the opinions Cook presented last week are truly his
own, then I question his judgment in choosing to remain at an institution he holds in such low esteem, amongst
people in whom he has such little faith.

Cook continues, “The problem is that most Davidson students have never been to another institution. We cannot say definitively, one
way or the other, if an English class at Richmond or Duke is graded the same way it is here.”
Having transferred from the University of Southern California Thematic Option honors program, I can attest to the fact that an
A at Davidson is not the same as an A at all other schools. Not by a long shot. I
know transfers from schools around the country—Haverford, Boston College, and Georgia Tech among others—who make similar claims.

Our esteemed former SGA President Chris Burton wrote a letter to the editor in which he exhorted us to stop
questioning our institution of higher learning and its lower mean GPA, and simply “Trust the Davidson education.” I would argue,
however, that the most vital lesson we can take from our studies in the liberal arts is to refrain from
investing blind trust in anything. There is no virtue in accepting the status quo without exploration, comment, or question. If
there were, then there would be scant reason for this or any other liberal arts college to exist. An education
in which there is no room for questions is an education on which I would waste neither my time nor
my money.

In his defense of the status quo at Davidson, Burton asserts that recent graduates have “secured great jobs in the
Charlotte financial district.” This is undoubtedly both true and admirable, and most Charlotte-dwellers are inevitably familiar with our institution. However,
the Davidson community now boasts a student body with increasing geographic diversity. Gone are the days when all Davidson students
hailed from the Carolinas. And while Davidson is ostensibly fulfilling its ambition to take its place as a national rather
than regional school, the fact remains that in much of the country Davidson is not yet a “name.” I believe
with total confidence that the day will soon dawn when a Davidson man (or woman) will need no introduction. But
that day is not today, and it will likely not be a year from today when my classmates and I
apply for jobs and graduate school admission on the West Coast as well as the East.

Fortunately, as Burton suggests, our education and experiences here are preparing us to make our own introductions, whether in California
or Connecticut, even if our reputation does not yet precede us. Still, forging our way into our futures would be
less daunting were we not both a.) explaining to potential employers where we received our education (“it's a small liberal
arts college about twenty minutes outside of Charlotte, North Carolina”) and b.) justifying our GPAs. This is assuming that we
first land the job or admissions interview and thus the opportunity to a.) explain and b.) justify.

A grade does not necessarily reflect academic rigor, nor is it capable of representing all a student has or has
not learned. I truly believe in this college and in the other people who call it home. I am proud
of the education I have received here. And I hope it goes without saying that “Ultimately, when we graduate, each
of us is better and more informed than we were when we graduated from high school,” as Burton claims. What
does not go without saying is that Davidson should stubbornly cling to a grading ethic that, if not deflation in
fact, is deflation for all intents and purposes.

If Davidson graduates are competing against job and graduate school applicants from better-known schools with higher GPAs, then it is
small consolation that we hail from the only school in our peer group that is using the right grading system,
whatever “right” might mean. It seems reasonable that everyone affiliated with Davidson—faculty, alumni, and even students like Burton and Cook—would
want Davidson graduates to be as competitive as possible in the “real world.” Right now, our lower GPAs are not
necessarily barring us from success, but they are not helping us either. Furthermore, it is a mistake to assume that
adjusting the college's attitudes toward grades will be to the detriment of students’ attitudes toward learning. A grade does not
necessarily reflect academic rigor, nor is it capable of representing all a student has or has not learned. How can
one letter tell a whole story?

If anything, I would argue that Davidson's grade deflation (or absence of inflation, if you will) encourages a grade-centric, some
might say grade-obsessed, environment. It creates a mercenary culture in which learning for the sake of learning is sacrificed to
studying for a material reward. Ultimately, the issue at stake is not who is deflating and who is inflating their
grades. To discuss grade inflation and deflation in this manner suggests that there is some irrefutable norm or standard to
which all academic institutions should adhere. But defending such an argument is an exercise in futility. A grade is a
human construction designed to measure something that is ultimately immeasurable. It is a symbol. It is arbitrary. Ceci n'est pas
une pipe.

Alissa Irei ’09 is a Political Science major from Scottsdale, AZ. Contact her at alirei@davidson.edu.
