THE DAVIDSONIAN

Students enjoyed an array of performances during this past weekend’s Dance Ensemble performances.

TIC CLIC Fs ROTTER’

11/05/08 04:06 Suspicious Person Belk Dormitory
An officer was contacted on the officer cell phone in reference to a suspicious person around Belk Dorm. A Davidson College student advised that an unknown person wearing dark clothing was pacing back and forth around the south side of Belk Dorm. Two officers searched the area and were unable to locate the suspicious person. The reporting officer spoke with several students walking from the Union; all advised they had not seen anyone suspicious.

11/08/08 01:54 Other 120 Glasgow St.
An officer was contacted on the officer cell phone in reference to a missing vehicle. A Davidson College student advised that he had parked his car in the Glasgow House parking lot, 120 Glasgow St. He advised he left the car in the parking lot for 15 minutes and when he returned the vehicle was missing. The reporting person stated there were only two keys to the vehicle, one key was in his pocket, and the other key was inside the vehicle's glove box. He stated he had locked the doors to his vehicle after exiting. The reporting officer had Dispatch send a 50-mile radius BOLO containing the vehicle's information. The reporting officer searched the parking lot near the Glasgow House; no evidence suggesting a forced entry into a vehicle was located. The reporting person later called back and advised a friend, a Davidson College student, had found his spare key, borrowed his car, and returned it to him. The reporting person advised that he did not want to press any charges.

11/08/08 13:00 Larceny Belk Dormitory
An officer received a call on the officer cell phone in reference to a stolen Cat Card. A Davidson student stated that sometime between 2230 hrs on Saturday, November 8, 2008, and 0200 hrs on Sunday, November 09, 2008, an unknown person stole her Cat Card from her dorm room. She is certain the door was locked to her room, but the door may not have been closed. The stolen card was used in a vending machine in Belk dorm on Saturday night at 2315 hrs.

11/09/08 20:20 Other Martin Ct.
An officer was dispatched to the parking lot behind the Baseball field in reference to a vehicle with a broken rear window. Upon arrival, the officer observed the warning sign stating that all vehicles are parked at the owner's own risk during baseball games and practice. The reporting officer observed a car with the back window glass broken. The reporting officer contacted the registered owner, a Davidson College student. The owner stated he was aware of the damage to his vehicle and that it likely happened earlier in the day during a baseball game. He advised he was going to contact his insurance company on Monday morning and advise them on what happened.

11/11/08 10:35 Other 120 Glasgow St.
An officer received a call on the officer cell phone in reference to a possible larceny of a bicycle at the Glasgow House, 120 Glasgow St. The caller advised a young white male around four feet tall was walking up Glasgow St towards N Main St with a campus bicycle. The caller could not advise any further on the direction of travel. The reporting officer searched the area but was unable to locate anyone matching the description.

FRANCISCO FIALLO Staff Writer
The Student Government Association (SGA) heard from the Diversity Coordinating Board (DCB) at its meeting last Thursday, as they outlined a mission for a Multicultural Resource Center and the resources necessary to support it. Polly Draganova '09, DCB Chair, met with leaders of seven of the organizations under their umbrella to produce the outline, which called for a “space, personnel, and resources for the benefit of student organizations revolved around diversity.” Such a space would allow students of DCB organizations to carry out meetings and roundtable discussions and also to store their materials and documents in a secure location. The DCB hopes for a space in the Union but has expressed interest in a currently unused Patterson Court House and the basement of the College Guest House.

However, the DCB intends for the Multicultural Resource Center to be more than simply a meeting space. The outline includes a call for two full-time staff with specialized training, one for gender and sexuality issues and one for ethnic issues, with the possibility of adding a student fellowship position. Staff would be available to respond to acts of intolerance by providing counseling and mediating conflict resolution, as well as providing diversity training to student leaders. The DCB intends to have aCompleted proposal by the end of the semester, which would include cost estimates. During the meeting, the SGA also approved charters for three on-campus organizations. Such charters allow organizations to apply for and receive funding from the Activities Tax Council, though that money is limited to $250 for the first year any organization holds a charter. The organizations that received charters were: Model United Nations, which hopes to use their allocation towards funding the team’s travel to simulation conferences and hosting a simulation on campus; The French Club, which will be working to improve knowledge of cultural and social issues in the Francophone world by hosting bimonthly 1-hour conferences. The club will also be hosting the Tournees Festival, a program that brings contemporary French films to college and university campuses; The Shades of Brown step team, which works to develop an appreciation for step dancing by performing at campus and community events.

The rest of the meeting was spent hearing a proposal from Meikaela Zwierynzski ’10, Academic Policy Committee Chair, regarding student feedback during courses. Initially, the committee had hoped to establish a system by which students could give mid-semester course evaluations. However, faculty were concerned that this would reduce students’ participation in office hours, and the anonymity of such a system would make them unaccountable for the contents of their evaluation. In response, the committee is considering allowing each course to appoint a course liaison. The liaison would act as an intermediary between students with concerns over academic content and course instructors. Student reactions to this proposal were mixed. Senator Manny Clark ’09 pointed out that professors’ primary responsibility is to teach, that office hours are an important component of the learning experience, and that this position would devalue that part of the experience. Zwierynzski replied that the position would be a complement to office hours rather than a substitute. The Academic Policy Committee will continue its discussion of the issue at its Academic Policy Forum this Wednesday.

Before closing, SGA Chancellor Audrey Pomeroy ’09 stated that Senator Gerard Dash ’12 was celebrating his 18th birthday that night. Independent Senator Severin Tucker ’09 then proceeded to lead the SGA in a rousing rendition of “Happy Birthday” before adjourning the meeting.

African Youth Movements
Maura McGinn
Staff Writer

In the latest Dean Rusk lecture, journalist and author Stephen Smith delivered a speech entitled “Africa South of the Sahara: Many Young, No Youth” to a filled 900 Room audience last Thursday. Stephen Smith’s journalistic background includes reporting for Reuters News Agency and Radio France International. He worked as the Africa Editor and the Deputy Editor of Le Monde and as the Africa Editor of the French daily Liberation. Smith has written several books including “How France Lost Africa,” “Black and French!,” and “Winnie Mandela, l’âme noire de l’Afrique du Sud.” He currently teaches at Duke University as a visiting professor in African studies, cultural anthropology, and public policy. Well-versed in the culture and political strife on the African continent, Smith was called as a witness in the war crimes case against the former president of Sierra Leone, Charles Taylor.

The primary focus of his lecture was how the rising population of young people affects all current issues in Africa, including the economy, public health, civil strife, and the government. Smith believes the single most important issue affecting Africa today is this increasingly large young population: the Youth Bulge Theory. The Youth Bulge Theory states that a correlation between a large population of young people and civil unrest exists. With increased urbanization, there are higher concentrations of young and unemployed individuals living in closer proximity. Frustrated with their current conditions, they have easy access to others who feel the same way, giving rise to civil unrest. Smith claims that 44 percent of individuals in sub-Saharan Africa are less than 15 years old and 20 percent are between 15 and 24 years old.

In the traditional African social structure, kinship ties and the rule of reciprocity dictated social networks and helped individuals advance. Smith describes current African youths as promethean and warrior-like, engaged with the world. There are fewer elders with the knowledge of the traditional structure, and as a result, the fiery-spirited youths look to their peer group for role models. Smith does not believe the resolution of this issue is in the near future. He believes that in this world of increasing globalization, the European and American ideals of youth will eventually spread into the African continent, yielding a solution to the Youth Bulge.