DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Dining Services goes green

ANDREW EVANS
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Dining Services have been making a strong push recently toward greater environmental sustainability. While several environmentally-minded policies
have been in place for several years, “The last year we’ve made an even bigger push to be even more
sustainable,” Dee Phillips, Director of Dining Services, said.

A composting center for the campus is currently the biggest project being pursued. According to President Tom Ross, all the
waste from the Union Café as well as the food waste from Vail Commons will be composted once the center
is running.

An exact timetable is uncertain, due to permit regulations and machine orders, but “we hope to get it operating sometime...hopefully
by the end of the [calendar] year,” Ross said.

Ross mentioned several potential benefits for the campus. Composting the majority of the waste will reduce the weight of trash
headed to the landfill, saving Davidson College money and reducing landfill volume.

There is only one trash dumpster outside of Vail Commons that is picked up 3 times per week. The number
of dumpsters has been reduced over the years by Dining Services’ efforts to reduce waste and increase recycling.

“We’re hoping once the composting starts we can actually drop off one or two pickups,” Phillips said.

In addition to saving landfill tonnage, Ross also said that the composting will eliminate the need to purchase compost from
an outside source.

This project will present an initial cost to the college, but Ross said that he thinks the project will ultimately
pay for itself through saving costs in other areas.

No matter the initial cost, “The environmental savings make it certainly worth the effort,” Ross said.

While composting is certainly the biggest project in the works, Dining Services also uses biodegradable disposable products manufactured from sugar,
corn or potato by-products. Specifically, the disposable knives, forks, and spoons are made from potato starch. The Wildcat Den and
Outpost have gone to using reusable red plastic baskets for in-house dining, and the

See Green, page 2

KELLY BEGGS
Staff Writer

Students were invited to experience the mind/body connection at Exhale, last Friday’s event which promoted stress-relief and relaxation. The air
of the Alvarez Student Union Atrium was perfumed with essential oils, iPod speakers played a soothing soundtrack and the floor
was covered with yoga mats.

F.L.Y. (a student group that promotes positive body image and eating disorder awareness) provided hot tea for students to sip
while they decided which mode of relaxation they would partake in; Anusura Yoga, meditation, massage, Tai Chi and acupuncture were
among the offerings. Exhale was coordinated by yoga instructor Kelley Gardner, Health Advisor Georgia Ringle and Jamie Brown and Ashley
Kaufman of Lululemon Athletica.

Brown and Kaufman are alumni of Davidson and represented Lululemon Athletica, a yoga and athletic-wear company which, according to its
promotional materials, aims to “create components for people

Showing off summer research

Brian Moran
Managing Editor

Sixty-eight students and their 3 faculty mentors exhibited the fruits of collaborative summer research at a symposium in Lilly Family
Gallery this past Thursday. Students and professors alike explained oversized posters detailing each group’s research. The event was the culmination
of 70 faculty-student projects in disciplines ranging from legal history to genetics. The Davidson Research Initiative (DRI), a program designed
to foster in-depth study between faculty and students, supported 20 of the students involved with funding from The Duke Endowment.

“The unique thing about the Davidson Research Initiative is that we are encouraging collaborative student-faculty research in the social sciences
and humanities, as

See Research, page 3

Busted

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2008

Studentsle

Faculty party

to live a longer, healthier and more fun life.”

By giving a goal setting workshop, Brown and Kaufman provided some of these components to Davidson students and also handed
out posters and bags printed with Lululemon’s manifesto. Kaufman explained her attraction to the idea of Exhale, saying that it
struck her as an event that she would have benefitted from when she was a Davidson student.

Georgia Ringle commented on the assortment of services, saying that “all are local resources and things you can continue to
do throughout the year to help manage stress.”

The Edmund Center of Cornelius provided two masseuses who massaged students for four hours straight.

Martin Kestin gave workshops in partner massage to make massage a viable stress-relief option even for students, whose funds and
time are notoriously tight.

Instructor Amy Becton introduced students to Tai Chi, Rev. Brenda Tapia read angel cards to show how spirituality can relax
and restore, and Cristin Gregory of

See Exhale, page 3

Students showcase their summer research projects.

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 2

A couple ties keep streak alive
