6 Tue DAVIDSONIAN

Binging, from page 5

Drinking does not become their way of coping. Students can find other, healthier means of being happy with the way
they look by focusing on their good qualities and turning to help when it's needed. No one should have to
deal with fixing a mistake because a negative body image led to excessive drinking. After all, college only happens once.

Corey Bradley ’11 is a member of FLY. Contact her at cobradley@davidson.edu.

Characterise of the play: as part of an inspired program, the theatre department often inspires discussion about important issues on
campus, in the community, or even in the world. Therefore, theatre has an interdisciplinary role; improvement of the theatre program
could have a ripple effect on the rest of the college.

People are coming to Davidson to be part of the 2006 renovation project, which began in summer 2007 and was
finished in time for the new academic year. The renovation project was part of the oldest unrenovated academic buildings on
campus. It was originally built in 1960 to house the visual art, music, and theatre departments. In 1989, however, a
master plan for renovating arts facilities on campus allowed the construction of the Katherine and Tom Belk Visual Arts Center,
completed in 1993, and the Sloan Music Center, completed in 2002. The six million dollar renovations to the Cunningham Theater
building represent an innovative and beneficial addition to Davidson's growing theater department.

Arts & LIVING

Healthy skin care: not to be neglected

JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

I know that at some point, you have heard that water and sunscreen are vital for your skin’s health. Either
by way of television, medical surveys, cosmetic packaging, or from your mother’s lips, we’ve all heard about the many harmful
factors in the environment which jeopardize overall health. What never ceases to amaze me is that for how educated we
are, for all the times we hear about the sun’s harmful rays, we refuse to dry off behind the ears
and trade in tanning oil for SPF. Again, it’s not because we have not been warned. Whether it is perpetuated
by some group think phenomenon or a sense of youthful immortality, there is no excuse for a lackadaisical regard for
your skin’s health.

Beyond the obvious cosmetic boon of regular hydration, applying a daily SPF will actually protect your skin from discoloration and
prevent premature aging and serious health issues, such as melanoma. And while it might be easy to overlook a monthly
meeting at work, when it comes to your skin, there is little margin for error.

As the largest organ of the integumentary system and body, the skin acts as a natural semi-permeable boundary, guarding the
internal system against harmful environmental substances, while retaining water, salt, and purging toxins. Protecting against significant temperature changes, the skin
also keeps all internal structures functional and is the source for the sense of touch. A complex, tri-layered structure, skin
is imperative for good health.

Look down at your hands; what you see is the top or upper layer, called the “epidermis.” Constantly active as
a protective barrier, the epidermis is also responsible for skin cell mitosis, which occurs at the base of this layer.
Once skin cells are mature enough to function at the epidermal level, in the span of about two weeks, new
skin cells migrate from the base to the top of the epidermis, where they replace existing dead skin cells, which
have in the meantime flattened and decayed. It is estimated that the normal human being loses approximately 30,000 to 40,000
dead skin cells every minute, produces a new layer of skin about every month, and affects a process which adds
up to a lifetime of about 40 pounds of sloughed dead skin material.

The middle layer, called the “dermis,” functions as the skin’s structural and messenger system. Composed of nerve endings, blood vessels,
oil glands, and sweat glands, the dermis also contains elastin and collagen. The nerve endings send messages to the central
nervous system, while blood vessels bring oxygen and nutrients necessary to keep skin cells viable, while removing waste products. LocatedAt
the base of the epidermis is subcutaneous fat. Designed primarily for insulation, this layer of fat acts as a shock
absorber to trauma, while simultaneously connecting the upper levels to underlying muscle tissue. Also located in the subcutaneous fat layer
are hair follicles, the tiny tubes out of which hair grows and extends to the epidermal layer. Needless to say,
your body would be useless without skin. Therefore, just like any daily activity, it is necessary to develop some pro-health
rituals, while completely eliminating others to ensure the skin’s longevity.

At the top of any skin-savvy list is sun protection. Ultraviolet light — the invisible, yet intense light from the
sun — penetrates into the dermis, breaking down collagen, causing deep wrinkles, a mottled complexion, dry skin, liver spots, and
more serious disorders, such as benign and malignant skin tumors. You've heard it for years: hydration is key to healthy
skin. And even though we are entering fall and winter months, the sun still packs a harmful punch. The most
damaging hours range from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Try to avoid prolonged exposure during this time, and at any
time of day, wear at least 45 SPF sunscreen, a hat, and protective clothing. And be mindful of the small
areas such as the neck, hands, feet, and ears, which can receive damaging rays if not protected properly.

Stop smoking. Ethics aside, it affects premature aging, wrinkles, decreased blood flow to all areas of the body, malnutrition, poor
dental hygiene, throat and lung cancer. Enough said.

Wash gently and moisturize often. The high number of harsh soaps and exfoliants on the market is alarming. Some of
the most popular choices for skin care are replete with high percentages of salicylic acid, benzyl peroxide, alcohol, and other
chemicals. Many exfoliants contain fine-ground fruit and nut pits, which abrade the skin instead of removing dead cells. Use a
gentle, non-irritating cleanser such as Purpose, followed by a non-scented moisturizer from the Aveeno line. Any exfoliant with natural enzymes
safely removes the unwanted layer of cells.

Drink at least eight glasses of liquid per day, and eat well. Staying hydrated is without question one of the
best things to do for your body, which is made up of over 50 percent water. If drinking that much
water seems monotonous, other sources such as fruits and vegetables, soups, and teas offer excellent nutrition and hydration, both of
which are imperative for proper cell function — the cornerstone of any healthy body and mind.

The bottom line is that we cannot control everything to which we are exposed, but surely we are responsible for
personal choices, habits, and measures taken or not taken to improve and ensure good health. We have the facts, so
be smart about your body. And not to sound ominous, but what you do now will come back to haunt
you in twenty years, if not even sooner.

WEBSITE DESIGNERS WANTED!
thedavidsonian.com is looking to upgrade and we need designers for online graphics and general site layout. Contact grnewman or brmoran
for more information.

Jim’s career-long track record of achieving successful results for his clients has earned him recognition throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named to the Best Lawyers in America publication consistently for the
past 23 years and was recently named as one of the Top 100 Super Lawyers in the state of North
Carolina. As a former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the
State for his commitment to justice and his exceptional litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience, he has dedicated
his legal practice to helping people who have been injured by the negligent or criminal conduct of others. Jim’s areas
of practice include Personal Injury Settlements, Mediations & Trials, General Civil Litigation for individuals and Business, Condemnation, and Appeals.

APPEALS
ESTATE PLANNING
LITIGATION
BANKRUPTCY
PERSONAL INJURY
BUSINESS LAW
REAL ESTATE
COLLECTIONS
WILLS
TRUSTS

209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill)
Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-1699
www.mcintoshlawfirm.com
