8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Postgame thoughts and future promise.
By WILL BRYAN
Sports Editor Emeritus

Walking out of Ford Field after Davidson’s 57-59 loss to top-seeded Kansas in the Elite 8, I felt every single
emotion imaginable: pain at watching my friend and classmate sit at center court after missing the game-winning shot... happiness that
these Wildcats had advanced so far and fought so valiantly... numbness in realizing that I would never again watch a
Davidson basketball game as a Davidson student... shattered hope that these Wildcats could fulfill some sort of destiny that seemed
right there for the taking.

But the whirl of thoughts and feelings were quickly brought to a singular head when I stepped out onto the
street. Mobs of reporters and locals flocked to the exodus of Davidson red, looking for interviews and offering consolation. “Don’t
worry, we will see you back here in the Final Four next year!” they shouted.

What? Do you have any idea what you are talking about? Davidson had not made it past the first round
of the NCAA Tournament for 39 years. And they just had a shot to make it to the Final Four!
This opportunity does not happen every year for a team from a one-bid league with an enrollment of 1,700 students
and rigorous admission standards. This year was a miracle, and it may never be replicated in my lifetime.

Those were my immediate responses. That was the pain talking, but I realized that it was also my selfishness talking.
I wanted my senior year to end in miracles from the national semifinals. On the morning after the game, I
realized that despite all of the games, practices, and interviews that I’ve seen with this team over the last four
years, those strangers in Detroit actually had a better perspective on Davidson right now than I did.

This run, while magical, was certainly not miraculous. Davidson was not and is not a Cinderella and didn’t need the
help of a fairy godmother to knock off Gonzaga, Georgetown, and Wisconsin. The NCAA Tournament accomplishments of Davidson reflected the
lump sum of a rational set of terms more than some sort of discovery of a magic glass slipper. When
you add exceptional talent to unceasing hard work to faith in one’s teammates to trust in outstanding coaching to the
uplifting support of a passionate army of followers, you get the type of performance that Davidson demonstrated in the NCAA
Tournament. I guess I just underestimated the absolute value of each term.

Over the past two weeks, this team showed the world, and us locals, that it is a part of one
of the elite programs in college basketball. Bob McKillop might only coach in the Southern Conference, Belk Arena might only
hold 5,700 people and Stephen Curry might have only gotten scholarship offers from mid-major programs, but Davidson’s Basketball program, the
sum of all its parts, is undeniably elite.

So maybe those Detroit locals were right that we’d be back in Detroit this time next March. Maybe my Mom
was right in suggesting that since Kansas was graduating so many players, we’d be able to knock them off next
year. Maybe JasonRichards, Thomas Sander, and Boris Meno will get to join the elite company of all the great Davidson
basketball alums before them as they move to the front row of the cheering section and marvel at the continuation
of a very special and successful basketball program. This is a program of trust, commitment, and care. But there is
also hope. Hope that can never be shattered like the glass of Cinderella’s slipper. Hope that knows that Davidson will
return next year, and the year after, and the year after that.

Stephen Curry '10 drives by Wisconsin guard Michael Flowers for two of his game-high 33 points in the round of
16. Curry set an NCAA record by scoring at least 30 points in his first four career tournament games.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 2, 2008

Stephen Curry '10 wows the crowd, LeBron James included, with an acrobatic layup between two Wisconsin defenders. Curry was named
the Midwest Regional’s Most Outstanding Player.

...and a half games with a broken thumb, making baskets, foul and a one-man show. But the shirts that LeBron
dropped off at the hotel where the team was staying in Detroit said something different: “Witness Davidson.”

If I had to run the numbers, I would inevitably come to the conclusion that Stephen Curry and Jason Richards
taking the entire offensive burden on his back against Georgetown in the first half when we could not get the
ball in the hands of Stephen Curry. It will be a long time before I, or anyone else for that
matter, will be able to adequately describe the performances Stephen conjured in this tournament.

All tournament he was like a hybrid of Reggie Miller and a hummingbird on speed: the way he buzzed around
the court, coming off two, three, or even four screens before acquiring that tiny space necessary to sink unbelievable shot
after unbelievable shot. His performances attracted the likes of LeBron James, who even created shirts that said, “Witness Davidson.”

As the enthusiastic “Go Cats” signs proudly written on car windows and the toilet paper strewn over the campus trees
in celebration melt away to nothing in the rain, I can’t help but feel that the legend of the 2008
Davidson Wildcats will not fade as easily. Davidson Basketball has made a worldwide name for Davidson, and we are indebted
to every member of that team. They brought Davidson the type of recognition that other up-and-coming small liberal arts schools
would die for.

We are no longer that school getting mopped by some ACC powerhouse on ESPN2 once a year that offers their
students a free laundry service and has an average SAT of 1300 or 1400 or whatever it is. We are
something much more than that, and we have no one to thank but the members of the Davidson Basketball team.
