THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bush's economic conservative

BY ZACH BENNER
Guest Columnist

In praising his recent economic stimulus plan devised with congressional leaders, President George W. Bush explained, “I’ve always believed that allowing people to keep more of their own money and to use it as they see fit is the best way to help the economy grow.” From President Bush, this confession of conservative dogma seems natural. In fact, tax reductions have dominated his administration’s economic policy. In 2001 and 2003, the president reduced taxes on individual income, capital gains, and dividends to applause from many conservatives. In so doing, he acted in support of his conviction that reduced taxes lead to economic growth.

The tax rebate constitutes the centerpiece of this stimulus, $600, whereas both would amount to a redistribution of wealth. This plan fails to allocate the rebates on the same proportional basis as the state collects income. It provides rebates to those who do not even pay income taxes and offers less to those who shoulder the heaviest tax burden. American conservatives believe that the protection of private property constitutes government raison d'être. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson identified this as the only objective of the stimulus: “to help the U.S. economy as soon as possible.” But its prospects for achieving its objective are subject to debate. Regardless, the president, treasury secretary, and congressional leaders who negotiated this plan allowed their well-intentioned desire to stimulate the American economy to obscure the rightful role of government.

In the tradition of John Locke, American conservatives believe that the protection of private property constitutes government’s raison d'être. In order to preserve private property and provide for the national defense—the other duty Locke ordains—government cannot avoid taxation. Rational conservatives acknowledge the necessity of taxation. Human self-interest precludes the possibility that people might voluntarily contribute to state coffers. In this light, the state rightly compels men to enable it financially to preserve private property and provide for the national defense.

PERSPECTIVES

MIKE PARSONS & DJ CARELLA
Students for Barack Obama

As representatives of Davidson Students for Barack Obama, we find it necessary to respond to Bobby DesPain’s disappointing and reckless article, “Reservations about Barack Obama.” At a time when our country faces important issues such as a healthcare crisis, prolonged war, and possible economic recession, DesPain’s flagrant mischaracterizations and purposeful, or at least misinformed, distortions of Senator Obama’s positions and person do little to heighten the quality of our debates and the intelligence of our campus dialogue. NBC never “openly declared” any kind of bias, Obama did not “attack” Limbaugh, and to say that the senator does not support our military is as offensive as it is false.

Here are the facts: NBC’s Brian Williams noted that “Lee [Cowan, a reporter covering Obama] says it’s hard to stay objective covering this guy,” and that Obama did sign a letter requesting Limbaugh apologize for calling veterans opposed to the war “phony soldiers.” Readers can discern for themselves whether the former constitutes a network endorsement and whether the latter counts as “attacking a private citizen.” It is a further stretch to accuse Obama of an “anti-Semitic and anti-Israeli tilt.” Five days earlier, a non-partisan coalition of Jewish leaders publicly came to his defense to denounce false allegations circulating about him. Playing “four-degrees of al-Gaddafi” as a rationale for such accusations is equally astounding when considering how the Bush administration hailed forging diplomatic relations with this man.

DesPain also takes aim at Obama for refusing to characterize the Iranian Republican Guard as a terrorist organization (referring to the Kyl-Lieberman Amendment). Yet, he conveniently omits that the language of the amendment could have been used as a justification for war in Iran—a prospect that experts agree would place America in great danger due to decreased military readiness, increased expenditures, and even more demand on a strained military. Furthermore, the bellicose assertion that Obama has “suggested bombing Pakistan” and “stands behind a complete military pull-out from Iraq” steamrolls the details of his foreign policy. On Pakistan, Obama was originally criticized for his unambiguous suggestion that “If we have actionable intelligence about high-value terrorist targets and President Musharraf won’t act, we will.” The fact that the presidential frontrunners from both parties have now followed suit and given similar answers stands as proof of Sen. Obama’s vision and judgment. On Iraq, Obama believes we must begin to remove combat troops at a responsible rate—one or two brigades a month over 16 months—while maintaining a residual force dedicated to police training and diplomatic protection. He also believes we must begin a phased redeployment of some troops to the Afghani/Pakistani border in order to refocus the pursuit on those who actually perpetrated the Sept. 11 attacks. To claim thatThis reallocation of military resources somehow “opposes victory” ignores the complexity of the threats we face from global terrorism. We must act in the interest of our national security and the safety of our troops and begin bringing our forces home. Of paramount importance, however, is Obama’s ability to break the partisan gridlock plaguing our political process and bring people together to build a working majority for change. As his Illinois State Legislature, U.S. Senate, and early primary records convey, Obama has the potential to unite a country divided across religion and race, gender, generation, and even party identification. Without a conciliator in office to galvanize such broad-based political will, even the loftiest campaign promises will ring hollow come inauguration day. Four to eight more years of political stagnation and partisan bickering is simply unacceptable for the American people and the global community. Only through a reinvigorated sense of common American purpose will we realize these goals and overcome the challenges we face. While some may say that the art of truncating quotations, mischaracterizing positions, and twisting the truth is just “politics as usual,” we must all remember that the tenor of our politics is determined by the ballots we cast. We vote our political culture into existence every four years: let us make the most of the opportunity we have been given in 2008.

Mike Parsons ’08 is a Political Science major from Potomac, MD. DJ Carella is an English and Philosophy major from Inverness, FL. Contact them at djcarella or miparsons@davidson.edu.

Dream jobs meet harsh reality checks

So I need a job—preferably a job providing money in the bank (Shorty, what ya drank?)—and where the only person who utters the word “coffee” is me. I’m a second-semester junior, and I cannot help but wonder where the ragingly illegitimate days of underclassmen-hood went. I have suspicions that they died in Irwin along with the heating/cooling system in the 1970s. In all seriousness, growing up and finding some means of résumé-building and an income is a daunting task, to say the least. As college life progresses, priorities change, maturity levels rise (theoretically) and your parents start hounding you about your plans for this whole future thing. The days of post-freshman-year summer beach-ness are over, and sophomore summer days are, like Kansas says, dust in the wind. You can’t help but watch the average TV show and ponder how to procure the internship of your dreams. Where’s my Teen Vogue internship, Lauren? Where are all these fairytale internships in bustling cities where everyone models and goes out to sexy clubs every night? If MTV is real, and Tila Tequila found true love, why can’t I, a good little liberal arts student, find a halfway decent job for this upcoming summer?

In addition to summer jobs and internships, the prospect of graduate school also looms above several heads, including my own. I hope to go to medical school someday and, unfortunately for my social life yet fortunately for my liver, I’ve chosen to take the MCAT in May. I’m currently enrolled in an MCAT course that has an annoying habit of reminding me of those days I fell asleep in Bio 111 (sorry Dr. Wessner, beers on me at Summit?) and Physics 120. So what if I don’t remember how to find the final speed of two hockey pucks that have somehow become stuck together on a frictionless plane? Why do these pucks have sticky goo on them, anyway? Isn’t that a safety hazard of some sort? And then there’s the problem where you have to figure out how far away you have to be to shoot a monkey falling out of a tree. Are medical schools condoning monkey-poaching?

Unfortunately for me and the rest of my aging comrades, the average dream job is competitive—ridiculously competitive. Where’s my New York Times internship with fully-subsidized housing and weekly lunches with Tommy Friedman? Where’s my personal 10 feet of workspace at one of the labs in the National Institute of Health? Wait, are these jobs hard to get or something?

I meant to put a concluding paragraph here, but I don’t really have a conclusion. I have no definite summer/future plans as of today, but my fallback is to sign a contract with MTV to become the star of my very own reality TV show called “Nerd Alert,” where they provide a to-die-for writing internship in NYC, and introduce me to a really good-looking investment banker. It would be kind of like Laguna Beach without the beach and the annoyingly staged pensive stares. My general conclusion would be that I feel your pain, and that it will all be OK. We’ll all get jobs, we'll all be in cool cities/towns/office basements, and everything will be alright. For now though, complaining is comforting and take solace that I’m writing this article instead of trying to find my elusive summer job. Whoops!

Ashley Semble ’09 is a History major from Winston-Salem, N.C. Contact her at assemble@davidson.edu.