THE DAVIDSONIAN — The men’s team played UNC-Chapel Hill and Duke this fall. Once the band travels to post-season contests,
like the athletic department website, as well as the list of musical ensembles on the music webpage, yields no information.
A broader college-wide search of “Davidson College Pep Band” also does not lead to any information about the band.

The DCPB does not receive sufficient compensation for its commitment to Davidson athletics. For starters, the band does not have
matching uniforms. Most other schools provide this for their Pep Band. The athletics department promised new, matching shirts for the
band at the beginning of the academic year, to be delivered by the second men’s home game in January 2008
(Jan. 5, against Western Carolina). More than six weeks have passed since that date, and there is still no sign
of shirts. The band currently wears the “Big Game Tonight” shirts from last year, which not everyone has. For the
TV games, the band is told to wear matching shirts and black pants, or they will not make it on.
The men’s and women’s basketball teams obviously get uniforms through the school because they are the ones actually playing the
sport. The cheerleaders, who rally the crowd and provide support for the teams, get uniforms through the school. Why should
the Pep Band be treated any differently?

Ideally, the Pep Band should consist entirely of college students. Currently, this is not the case; many high school kids
fill the seats. Davidson, however, can help to fix this. One option would be to give a graduation credit, such
as a team credit and/or a lifetime credit, to college students for their commitment to the games. Another option would
be to pay Pep Band members if it consisted of only college students. Dr. Bill Lawing of the music department
said, “Funding is entirely possible if there is also a way to be confident that it is going to play
with a consistent group appearing at games.” A third option would be to include Pep Band as participation in a
musical ensemble, like the Symphony Orchestra or the Concert Choir. None of these are happening.

According to Josiah Rich ’08, saxophonist for the band, “There’s no incentive to play.” Trombonist Matt Surdel ’10 agrees: “More
people would do it if it was for credit. You don’t get anything for Pep Band.” The catch-22, then, is
fairly obvious. The school wants to represent the college. At the very least, the college should include a page dedicated
to the Pep Band on the athletics department webpage. There might be a prospective student whose decision to attend Davidson
might be influenced by the information he or she receives about the Pep Band.

Anjan Mukherjee ’09 is a Music major from Chevy Chase, Md. Contact him at anmukherjee@davidson.edu.

PERSPECTIVES

Kosovo's parliament unanimously declared its independence from Serbia last Sunday. International opinion, however, was far from united. Though most Western
nations have made commitments to recognizing any independence claim, Russia and its allies have vehemently objected. Far from unexpected, Kosovar
independence adds yet another loop to an already impenetrable Gordian knot extending far beyond the Balkans.

Kosovo's history as an influential and often explosive part of the Balkans dates back to the Middle Ages, when in
the 14th century, the Slavs defeated the Ottomans. To many Serbs, Kosovo is the birthplace of the Slavic nation. Persistent
Ottoman influence and domination, however, separated Kosovo from its Serbian forbears in both religion and ethnicity. While most of Kosovo's
population is ethnic Albanian and Muslim, it still hosts a sizable Serbian minority. Since then, Kosovo and Serbia have had
an uncomfortable relationship, to say the least.

More recently, Kosovo has served as a flashpoint in the bloody wars of Yugoslav dismemberment. On the heels of the
disastrous conflict in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Slobodan Milosevic's forces cracked down on political dissidents calling for independence in Kosovo in 1999. As
a result, around 10,000 ethnic Albanians lost their lives and 300,000 were driven from their homes. In quick response to
accusations of ethnic cleansing, the United States spearheaded a North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) bombing effort to expel Serbian troops
and return Kosovar refugees.

Kosovo has become a chess piece in a reemerging East-West power struggle. In gratitude to U.S. and NATO forces, Kosovo
named the capital Pristina's main street Bill Clinton Avenue. Pro-American sentiment still runs high. Operation Allied Force, however, only sharpened
the lines of political conflict. Russia and China accused the U.S. of exaggerating prewar massacre claims and of violating the
U.N. Charter in bombing dual-use targets in Serbia. Kosovo has become a chess piece in a reemerging East-West power struggle.

Since then, Kosovo has been in limbo. A U.N. peacekeeping force is on the ground to protect civilians from violent
attack, yet danger remains. In the northern Serbian enclaves, ethnic Serbs have experienced revenge attacks at the hands of bereaved
Kosovars. As the United Nations, European Union, and Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) have all moved in,
Russia has cried foul. Today's declaration brings...The debate to an abrupt and potentially dangerous climax. Russia and its allies claim
concern for the safety of Kosovo's Serbian minority, but really present a broader issue. They argue that allowing Kosovo to
break away from Serbia presents a troubling precedent that de facto states within Georgia, Cyprus, Sudan, Somalia, and Indonesia may
elect to exercise. To be sure, Russia's bluster is also an attempt to reestablish itself as a global power, but
pushing this new brand of brinksmanship is not beneficial to U.S. foreign policy. Accepting Kosovo's independence without an agreed-upon legal
framework knocks a giant hole into established international law. Though Russia may eventually have to back down on Kosovo, it
can use this precedent to its advantage by aiding pro-Russian independence movements in Transnistria, South Ossetia, and Abkhazia. Kosovar independence
seems to be just a localized issue and an understandable consequence of Serbian atrocities during the 1990s. In fact, it
is but another domino falling in a new Great Game. Recognizing Kosovo risks plunging the world closer to another Cold
War. Russia views recent NATO and OSCE expansion; “color” revolutions in Ukraine, Georgia, and Kyrgyzstan; Polish and Estonian saber-rattling; and
a proposed missile system in Poland and the Czech Republic as provocations. In response, it has resumed bomber flights in
the Pacific and North Atlantic and threatened to target major European cities with intermediate-range missiles. To be sure, Russia's bluster
is also an attempt to reestablish itself as a global power, but pushing this new brand of brinksmanship is not
beneficial to U.S. foreign policy. This issue has immediate ramifications on the ground. Already, mobs have begun violent protests targeted
at the U.S. Embassy and other international organizations in Belgrade. Putin's words carry far beyond the Kremlin. When he spoke
of “new dividing lines and walls” in his 2007 speech at the Munich Conference, he expressed a tangible fear among
Russia, its allies, and their people of Western encroachment. Without comprehensive UN recognition of Kosovo's status, the European Union and
United States will be seen as pushing these walls even harder. Not only will unilateral Kosovar independence set a precedent
for secession, but it will also back Russia further into a corner.

Matt Petit ’08 is a Political Science and Music major from Seminole, Fla. Contact him at mapetit@davidson.edu

Socioeconomic diversity should be priority

KEVIN Cook Guest Columnist

Diversity is a hot topic at Davidson College. However, as is often the case, it is discussed in very narrow
terminology. In many cases, attempts to make Davidson a diverse place do not go beyond someone's skin color. The biggest
push for diversifying Davidson's student body has come in the form of increasing the number of minority students. Many people
point out that minority students are underrepresented at Davidson when compared to the general population. Despite this fact, I would
argue that Davidson has a larger diversity problem: that of socioeconomic class. Socioeconomic diversity may be a much larger issue
here at Davidson than racial diversity could ever be. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the average Caucasian-American household earns
about $42,000 annually. The average African-American household earns $28,000 and the average Hispanic household $32,000. Can one really argue that
two people are different because they have different skin colors, even though they have come from the same privileged background?
If one were to take a guess at the average household income for a Davidson student, the number would be
significantly higher. One only needs to look as far as the parking lot to guess that our average income is
far above the national average. Increasing socioeconomic diversity should be priority number one, even higher than that of racial diversity.
What good does racial diversity do for Davidson, if the diverse students are theoretically coming from the same neighborhoods, schools,
and churches? Can one really argue that two people are different because they have different skin colors, even though they
have come from the same privileged background? If anything, that mentality is shallow and patronizing to minority students. Simply to
assume that someone is radically different or would add a unique perspective to the college community because their skin is
a different color, or are a “different race,” is not the kind of approach we should have at Davidson. Assuming
someone will add a new perspective because they look different is really no different than assuming someone is ignorant because
they look different. It's the same mentality, just on the opposite end of the spectrum. Don't get me wrong, racial
diversity on campus is a good thing, but not because it makes us a more “diverse” place. It's positive because
it shows that we are moving closer toward being colorblind. Hopefully, we can someday call ourselves diverse on a level
deeper than skin. By increasing socioeconomic diversity, Davidson would truly expand the number of unique perspectives on campus. There would
be a greater number of individuals who were brought up in an atmosphere other than that of the upper-middle class
or wealthy. This kind of diversification would change Davidson more drastically than just seeking out people from the same background
who just happen to have a different appearance.

Kevin Cook ’09 is a Biology and Political Science major from Syracuse, N.Y. Contact him at kecook@davidson.edu.
