THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, APRIL 23, 2008 7

Senior art shows in full swing this semester

By BIANCA MITCHELL
Staff Writer

Just as the spring flowers are blooming this semester, so are 12 senior studio art majors. From print, to sculpture,
to drawing, there is an endless variety of art to be discovered at the 2008 Senior Studio Majors Thesis Exhibitions.
Beginning in January, the Smith Gallery housed a senior showcase, as each week an art major took a turn sharing
their accomplishments with the Davidson community.

Most recent shows were given by Tarlton Long ’08 and John David Deardourff ’08. Tarlton’s show, entitled “Creative Spaces,” used
architecture to depict spaces from a unique perspective. Tarlton’s show featured 13 of his finest pieces, and took eight hours
every day of preparation in the weeks leading up to the show. The hardest part “was the framing, hanging and
actual organization of the show,” said Long. “You want everything to be perfect since this is the time where friends
and family will come to see what you have accomplished in your four years at Davidson.”

Long’s interest in art piqued in high school and he knew that the art program at Davidson would be a
perfect place for him to continue to engage his interests. For him, the most rewarding part of this somewhat stressful
event is “the moment during your show when you see all of your friends and family observing your works.” Long
said, “They finally recognize all of the hard work you have put into your art and you really feel a
major sense of accomplishment.”

One of the benefits of the show is the fact that the students have a chance to sell some of
their works to the public. Deardourff displayed his work last week in the gallery, and sold most of the pieces.
The exhibitions are “a great way to get your name as an artist out to the community and to really
jumpstart your post-collegiate career,” he said. His show, “Smash,” featured recent drawings and prints from his collection.

A perk of the Davidson art program that can make show preparation less stressful is the access of some students
to their own private studio in the Belk Visual Arts Center. Deardourff is one of three seniors chosen for this
opportunity. Five students have gained this privilege through a rigorous application process. “The studio is a really nice thing to
have,” Deardourff said. “It’s a place where I was able to become extremely focused in preparation for my big show.”
In fairness to other students who weren’t fortunate enough to gain these individual work spaces, some, like Deardourff, share their
studios with other seniors who are racing to complete their final masterpieces.

Although most shows are held in the Smith Gallery, this location is not a requirement. Students may display their shows
wherever they feel necessary, for example, a sculpture artist may choose to plant their works among campus in an attempt
to create a more interactive showcase.

Few shows remain on the calendar for this spring. However, there is an additional opportunity for students to view the
best works from each exhibition. The 2008 Student Juried Exhibition will have its opening reception on April 24 from 7
p.m. to 9 p.m. in the VAC. Works in this show are composed exclusively by students of Davidson, both art
majors and non-major artists. Art faculty decides which pieces to display. Awards will be given by a guest juror.

Senior art majors include: Kristin Apple, Chris Beeston, Jimmy Daniels, John Deardourff, Katherine Eastland, Katherine Hester, Cate Kennedy, Tarlton Long,
Leigh Morrison, Katharine Phlegar, Darryl Ratcliff, and Sarah Rice. For more information about openings and exhibitions, go online to www.davidson.edu
and connect to the art link, or stop by the Belk Visual Arts Center during their regular business hours.

The ten best movies of the millennium

By ALEX HOYT
Yowl Editor

Last year the now-defunct Stylus magazine had a go at this list. They botched it, as I probably have, and
I am revising theirs as I hope someone will revise mine. I selected films according to quotability, longevity, virtuosity, medium
specificity, and my enormous, arbitrary, critical ego. Honorable mention to “Children of Men” and “Memento.” “Brokeback Mountain” was omitted to
spite Annie Proulx. In no particular order:

“City of God” (Fernando Meirelles, 2002). What exactly goes on in the slums of Rio when the football gets popped?
Three generations of massive gang wars. Everyone has a gun, an overzealous libido, and a sweet nickname like Knockout Ned
or Lil’ Ze. The film begins with the Tender Trio shooting up at a hotel and ends with a very
different loss of innocence. Buscape, a circumspect, gun-shy budding photographer, serves as the lens through which we witness such atrocities
as a 12-year-old getting shot in the foot for disloyalty to his gang. In Portuguese. Followed by a quasi-sequel, “City
of Men,” in theaters now.

“There Will Be Blood” (Paul Anderson, 2007). Paul Anderson once mused that he would probably never do better than “Magnolia,”
but with “There Will Be Blood,” he has earned a place in the cinematic canon with one of the best
films to haveLost Best Picture. Daniel Day-Lewis makes his enervating role in “Last of the Mohicans” look like Hugh Grant
with a shotgun and a ponytail. Great pun in the end as Lewis’ Plainview finds himself facedown in the gutter
of a bowling alley.

Spain’s Javier Bardem won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actor this year for his role in “No Country for Old
Men.” Until my poetry professor screened this film last week, I thought it was a botched sequel to “2001: A
Space Odyssey.” Turns out it is Kar Wai Wong’s lusciously mind-bending trip through China, nightclubs, dingy hotel hallways, and the
light-rails of the human mind. Providing critical commentary is like trying to review a dream. If Kazuo Ishiguro and Anthony
Minghella tripped on acid and tried to remake “Blade Runner” and “Being John Malkovich” at the same time, they might
come up with something like this. Mesmerizing cinematography, inebriating score, and hot androids serving free mixed drinks on a train
to the future. The plot wrinkles and haphazard editing hardly matter.

“No Country For Old Men” (Ethan and Joel Coen, 2007). The Coen brothers’ stark, noirish adaptation of Cormac McCarthy’s 2005
novel marks a departure from the quirky black humor of their “Fargo” years. Set in 1980 West Texas, the story
concerns a $2 million drug deal gone awry, a Vietnam vet who stumbles across the dough, and his assailant, Anton
Chigurh, a serial killer with all of Hannibal Lecter’s wit and none of his culture. Part Raymond Chandler, part Clint
Eastwood, part William Butler Yeats, the film delivers, without irony, an apocalyptic take on the unforgiving American landscape.

“The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King” (Peter Jackson, 2004). The film that saved Middle Earth from
Saruman and the epic movie from the depths of “Alexander” and “Troy.” Director Peter Jackson never lets characterization become subordinate
to his enthralling special effects; amidst the grand melee of elves, elephants, dragons, and orcs, the most painful struggle remains
the one in Frodo’s mind, a struggle between the ring’s allure and its pulsating evil. Sean Astin’s Oscar-worthy performance as
Sam may provide some consolation for the fact that he looks like a hobbit.

“Before Sunset” (Richard Linklater, 2004). Having already directed films as disparate as “Dazed and Confused” and “Waking Life,” Linklater further
diversifies his filmography with an avant-garde love story. If you don’t choke on the cliché of two strangers meeting on
a train from Paris to Prague, having mind-blowing sex but somehow failing to exchange numbers or even names, then, 10
years later, randomly meeting along the Seine in an expatriate’s bookstore and doing it all again, then you might like
this movie as much as I did. Along with “Scream 2” and the second Gremlins film, one of the only
sequels to outdo its original indisputably, in this case, the competent, slightly wan “Before Sunrise.” Proves that the dialogue-driven art-house
film isn’t dead; it just needs big stars.

“Mystic River” (Clint Eastwood, 2003). The best depiction of the wrong side of Boston since “Good Will Hunting.” Three childhood
friends are reunited by a kidnapping that recalls a harrowing episode from their adolescence. Sean Penn plays the father, Tim
Robbins the chief suspect, and Kevin Bacon the detective. Penn, who won Best Actor for his performance, portrays a father
as simultaneously ruthless and compassionate as Pacino’s Michael Corleone. Irrefutable proof that second-rate fiction can make great movies, “Mystic River”
makes “The Departed” look like slapstick.

“Traffic” (Steven Soderbergh, 2000). We know the trendy formula: several seemingly unrelated characters are brought together by fate, Providence, or
the moral dilemmas of 21st-century America. “Babel” and “21 Grams” have also tried to harness the form, but none compares
to “Traffic,” Steven Soderbergh’s finely balanced depiction of America’s War on Drugs. The handheld camera work, with the director himself
doing the handling, evokes the intimacy of Soderbergh’s sensational “Sex, Lies, and Videotape.” Unlike its self-aggrandizing step-cousin, “Crash,” “Traffic” never
stoops to stereotyping, moralizing, or championing its aversion to stereotyping. Benicio Del Toro is broodingly brilliant as a Tijuana cop
on the border between corruption and integrity.

“Before Night Falls” (Julian Schnabel, 2000). Before he became seared in our memory as the gun-wielding psychopath of “No Country,”
Javier Bardem spent his time in understated, literary roles like the paraplegic writer of “The Sea Inside” and Reinaldo Arenas,
the homosexual Cuban poet of this cinematic elegy. As he did in “Basquiat,” director Julian Schnabel inhabits the artistry of
his protagonists with a virtuosic blend of homage, objectivity, and rhapsody. Watch for Johnny Depp’s double-cameo as a prison guard
and transvestite manuscript smuggler.

“The Royal Tenenbaums” (Wes Anderson, 2001). The far-flung settings of “The Life Aquatic” and “The Darjeeling Limited” shouldn’t distract us
from the fact that Anderson will forever be trying to remake “The Royal Tenenbaums.” Descended from Buñuel, Salinger, and the
Rolling Stones, “The Royal Tenenbaums” encapsulates every facet of the brownstone-boarding school-bohemian-bourgeoisie set. Like many of his characters, Anderson is
a precocious underachiever stuck in his past. In the words of Raleigh St. Claire, “How interesting... How bizarre...”
