2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Katie LOVETT
Staff Writer

Author of “Ecology of a Cracker Childhood,” Janisse Ray, visited the Davidson campus last Sunday night to share a lecture
that exhibited her passion for and commitment to the environment. The class of 2012 will certainly recall Ray’s award-winning memoir
from the freshman orientation book discussions. But for those who are less familiar with the work, it is an account
of Ray’s isolated childhood in a junkyard along U.S. Highway 1 and the development of her desire to save the
disappearing longleaf pine ecosystem that once defined the South.

Titled “Nature, Community, and the Life We Dream,” Janisse Ray’s lecture commenced with the reading of an excerpt from the
book that won both the American Book Award and the Southeastern Booksellers Association Book Award for Nonfiction. The author related
that “the richest life is one that daily embraces nature” and proceeded to comment on how the fragmentation of the
natural landscape is mirrored in human society through war, broken families, and communities where neighbors do not even know one
another.

“I’m often described as an activist. People introduce me as a dirt-worshipping tree hugger,” Ray said, “but I’m not simply
a member of some environmental movement. I’m not only trying to stop drilling in ANWR, call attention to the dangers
of spent nuclear fuel, or restore the Everglades. I believe in life and the possibility and hope for the best
life possible.”

The passionate environmental advocate then encouraged the members of the audience to ask themselves what it means to be fully
human. “Gandhi once said, ‘big problems need small solutions’; you young thinkers, you young visionaries, you can do so much
good,” Ray said.

According to Ray’s standards, achieving wholeness as a human being results from being engaged with the land, engaged with each
other, connected to your means of survival, aware of what you are sacrificing, and also recognizing that we are moored
by spirit. “The most vital challenge in the 21st century is figuring out how we are going to lead a
whole and sustainable life amid so much destruction,” Ray said.

Coming from an area of the country where 99% of the native landscape has been destroyed, Ray believes that the
“more, more, more motto” of our economy has led to this “apocalyptic loss” of the natural environment. “I used to
think that policy and education would stem the hemorrhaging of wild things from the earth, but I no longer believe
in this solution,” Ray said.

Ray said that by giving corporations the rights of people, our society is not taking into account the damage that
we are doing by liquidating our planet. “Earth cannot withstand this exploitation,” the self-proclaimed idealist stated before presenting five possible
outcomes for America and how we are going to “marry economics with the environment.”

First, we could simply keep going the way we are going. However, this refusal to alter our economic system will
result in the continued sacrifice of fundamental human needs and the things that are most important to us, such as
clean air and rural communities.

An officer and a gentleman

ANDREW EVANS
Staff Writer

“To make war upon rebellion is messy and slow, like eating soup with a knife.” These words by T.E. Lawrence
were the first words Captain Ross M. Boyce ’01 displayed on the overhead screen during his presentation on September 24
titled “The Laws of War: Lessons Learned from a Year in Iraq.” Boyce talked in the Lily Family Gallery to
a group of about 50 people, including students, faculty, and community members.

Boyce’s presentation clearly demonstrated the horrors of the conflict in Iraq and the truth of Lawrence’s words. “For me, Iraq
wasn’t a political experience,” he said. He also said he was simply doing his duty as a soldier, a duty
that required unimaginable situations and decisions. “War is not a Sunday picnic.”

Dr. Russell Crandel, Professor of Political Science, remarked that Boyce’s presentation gave both the perspective of the “boot on the
grunt” and an intellectual perspective on the War. While training soldiers at Fort Collins, Colorado, the reality of sending soldiers
to Iraq without trained leadership unsettled Boyce. He volunteered to go to Iraq since he was an officer, and in
2004 he was deployed to eastern Baghdad. He earned the Bronze Star for Valor during his service, but his greatest
accomplishment was returning all of his soldiers back home alive.

Boyce was the sole officer in a reconnaissance platoon of 27 to 28 men. His platoon’s duties included reconnaissance, route
clearance, and counter-Improvised Explosive Device.ED) missions. Much of what Boyce’s platoon did can be categorized as counterinsurgency, and his platoon
was stretched too thin and had to perform too many missions to be ideally effective. Boyce said regarding the missions,
“We were over-burdened” by the duties in the assigned area. Their area of operation in Baghdad was very large and
diverse, both politically and economically. It bordered the Sadir City slums, yet also included very wealthy areas. Both members of
the Sunni and Shia sects lived in the area, too. When he arrived, “the mood was... confusion.” He said there
weren’t many interpreters, and the soldiers weren’t trained for the war they were fighting. Boyce emphasized that the soldiers were
often placed in compromising situations with no obviously correct course of action.

To illustrate the soldiers’ predicament, Ross gave the example of a situation during a night road checkpoint when a car
didn’t stop at the first line of the roadblock. The car exploded—it was a Vehicle-Borne IED. A few nights later
the same soldiers were running another checkpoint at night and a car again failed to stop at the first line.
The soldiers fired. Were they within the Rules of Engagement? Boyce told the audience that they were; they felt threatened,
especially after the VBIED from a few nights before. But in the car wasn’t a terrorist. A man and his
pregnant wife, who were rushing to the hospital, were shot and killed that night.

The ambiguous nature of the war was compounded by the role of civilians in the conflict. “We’re not fighting over
the terrain,” Boyce said. “You're fighting over the people.” Boyce made it clear that the situation in Iraq is very
complex, often with no clear answers to particular situations. “It’s such a life-changing event that it affects you,” said Boyce.
For the first few months after his return, Boyce drove down the middle of the road, fearful of IEDs, and
a dropped weight in a weight room would put him on the floor.

Boyce said he did benefit some from his year in Iraq. He gained new strength and a “deeper... perspective on
life.” His experience helped put things in their proper perspectives: “Waiting in line at the grocery store doesn’t irritate you
because it’s not that bad,” he said. “I left feeling so incomplete,” said Boyce, because there was still a tremendous
amount to be done.

See Veteran, page 3

An alternative would be to punish corporations and the small percentage of the population that is procuring the prosperity that
stems from pollution and environmental destruction. Ray then introduced the third option of coming up with another economic system. “The
minute I start talking about this, people think I am talking about communism,” Ray said. But this suggestion was actually
another manifestation of her idealist nature and her disdain for how capitalism has taught our society to be “violently wasteful.”
Ray then expressed the possibility of changing our accounting so that “we take into consideration the cost to human and
environmental health,” before presenting the last possible outcome to the United States.

This final option is one that Janisse Ray herself has adopted. She suggests that we “remove ourselves as much as
possible from the global, industrial, military economy and reconstitute local economies.” By making a pact to reduce her fossil fuel
consumption by 30%, driving a hybrid car, using low-energy, fluorescent light bulbs, participating in “curb your car” challenges, and growing
food on her family farm, Ray has made a commitment to putting what she calls the “sanctity of life first.”

During the question and answer session, Economics professor Dr. Clark Ross inquired about the presence of environmental programs in other
colleges and universities across the country. During her travels, Janisse Ray says she has seen the implementation of solar hot
water in dorms at Dartmouth College, a windmill at Green Mountain College in Vermont, “go-mugs” similar to our Davidson Cat
C.U.P.P.S. at the University of Alabama, and the celebration of Earth Day at Lynchburg College.

“We are desperate for thinkers, not consumers,” Ray said. “Thank you for studying hard and thinking hard, for your good
work of envisioning the world as a more livable and sustainable place because you can reinvent a different North Carolina,
a different Southeast and, ultimately, a different America.”

Logistically speaking, the labyrinth will be located in Hobart Park, which is situated between Faculty Drive and the Baker parking
lot. The kit used to build the labyrinth and its installation will cost around $30,000. Support the effort by purchasing
labyrinth t-shirts and tickets for the Amazing Maize Maze located nearby.
