Wildcats Crush Camels

By Ray Francis, Staff Writer

Davidson ran for 262 yards on Saturday and walloped the Campbell Camels 49-0 in Barker-Lane Stadium. Wildcat coach Tripp Merritt
described his stable of running backs as a “three-headed monster” after their dominant performance against the Camels. Kenny Mantuo ’11
led the way with 105 yards and two touchdowns on 14 carries. Justin Williams ’11 added 93 yards and two
touchdowns on eight carries, and Chad Barnes ’09 finished with 79 yards and a touchdown on 16 carries. Mantuo became
the first Wildcat of the season to exceed 100 yards in a game. Williams also returned a punt 39 yards
to set up a Wildcats score.

Ryan Alexander ’09 was no less impressive in the passing department, throwing for 254 yards and a touchdown on 19-25
passing. Andrew Aldrich ’10 caught a 26-yard touchdown pass. The Davidson defense was led by Tyler Lemons’ ’10 nine tackles,
Matt Easton’s ’09 two interceptions, and Will Funderburg’s ’09 two tackles for a loss, .5 sack, and fumble recovery. Davidson’s
defense held the Camels to 143 yards of offense and forced four turnovers.

The Wildcats took out the frustration of a winless October on the Camels, scoring early and often as they built
a 21-0 halftime lead. Alexander’s pass to Aldrich opened the scoring before Mantuo and Barnes scored on runs of 14
and one yard, respectively. Williams ran for a 22-yard score in the third quarter, and Mantuo added his second of
the day from three yards out later in the period. Michael Blanchard ’11 scored his first collegiate touchdown on an
eight-yard run in the final quarter, and Williams concluded the scoring with a three-yard run with five minutes remaining.

“Winning always feels good,” Alexander said, “but it’s especially sweet when you’ve lost a number of close ones recently like
we’ve done.” The win ended a four-game losing streak in which the Wildcats were often competitive only to be undone
by turnovers. It also establishes momentum for the three-game homestand with which the Wildcats will finish the season. After the
dominant win, Lemons added, “It is extremely encouraging to see the team click like this. I really think we performed
very well in all phases of the game.”

Merritt was especially pleased with the running game because it allowed Alexander more freedom in the passing game. With total
yards split almost exactly 50/50, Saturday’s game was by far the most statistically balanced the Wildcats have played. Alexander passed
the 8,500-yard mark in career passing in the victory. The total gives him nearly a 3,000-yard advantage on second-place passer
Paul Nichols ’02. Kirk Konert’s ’09 19 receiving yards left him one yard shy of 1,000 for his career.

The win improves the Wildcats to 3-5, and 2-4 in the Pioneer Football League. The Camels, in their first varsity
season in over 50 years, fall to 1-8, and 0-6 in the PFL. Davidson will play San Diego next Saturday
at 1 p.m. Last year’s game against the Toreros featured six touchdown passes from Alexander in a 52-49 loss. After
the victory, the Wildcats’ enthusiasm was palpable. “We’re excited about the last three games,” said kicker Ben Behrendt ’11, who
was perfect on six extra point tries. “We have a chance to have a winning record and we want to
send the seniors out on a high note.” Lemons added, “We have been highly motivated and very attentive in practice
the past couple weeks, and things seem to be starting to look up.”

Merritt was also relieved to be able to report no significant injuries after the game. Davidson, especially the defense, has
been hit hard by injuries this season. However, behind Alexander’s arm and the combined legs of Mantuo, Barnes, and Williams,
the Wildcats appear poised for a strong stretch run.

Photo by Aaron Robinson: Justin Williams ’11 rushed for 93 yards.and two touchdowns in the Wildcats' 49-0 victory over Campbell.

Late goal downs ’Cats in SoCon quarterfinals

Katherine Laco '10 scored her second goal of the season in the 2-1 overtime win over Ga. Southern, but the
’Cats were held scoreless in their final game.

JOHN MORGAN _ Staff Writer

After 11 weeks of enduring matches, the women’s soccer team finished the season with an impressive 10 wins, 6 losses,
and 3 draws. The team never lost a game by more than a single goal and won games by margins
as high as seven. In the end, it only took one goal to end the season in heartbreaking fashion.

The week started off on a relatively bright note, as the 'Cats defeated Georgia Southern in the last game of
the regular season. It was a nail-biter, testing the team with an overtime challenge — ideal competition for the tournament
ahead. After the long drive to Statesboro, GA, Davidson sprinted out of the opening whistle, scoring less than five minutes
into the game. Callan Elswick '11 struck an arching cross to Katherine Laco '10 for Davidson’s first goal. The score
accounted for Elswick’s first assist of the season and Laco's second goal.

Georgia Southern, who had struggled through their SoCon schedule, made a charge at the highly-ranked Wildcats. Only five minutes after
the opening goal, the home team launched an unstoppable shot over the head of goalie Christy Carry '12. Following those
quick scores, the rest of the regulation transformed into a lopsided shooting match. Though Georgia Southern recorded seven saves to
Carry’s three, the Wildcat offense took 22 shots in the game to its opponents’ five. Despite Davidson’s clear control of
the game, the score held at 1-1 after 90 minutes.

As the overtime opened, the 'Cats sought to capitalize on their superiority. In the final period, Ga. Southern struck even
with shots — two to two. But another smooth pass from Elswick, this time to Suzanne Sitko '10, would finally
clinch the game.

With four days until the SoCon tournament, the ’Cats had to brush aside the close call, and fast. Samford, whom
Davidson demolished 3-0 earlier in the season, won its final game to secure the third seed, forcing the ’Cats to
play in the fourth spot. This ranking meant a match-up against Furman, who barely lost a 3-2 decision to Davidson
in September. In every respect, the stat book suggested a close game at Alumni Stadium. Until the last two minutes
of regulation, it was a tied one.

The nail-biting match highlighted the curious nature of soccer — the team who plays better doesn’t always win, and in
this case, didn’t score a goal. From the onset, the 'Cats dominated control of the ball. Shot after shot narrowly
missed the back of the net. While the teams held even in shots — 11 to 11 — Davidson clearly
led in time of possession. The ’Cats spread the ball around with smooth, composed touches, but the ball refused to
take a favorable hop between the Furman goalposts. Credit must be due to the Furman goalie, who recorded only four
saves in the stat book but frequently thwarted the

See Soccer, page 15

Player of the Week: Ben Lane '11

MEN’S DIVING
ASHEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA

Lane set the school record in the 3-meter diving event during Davidson’s 148-89 loss to Emory on Saturday. He easily
captured individual honors in the event and topped Chris Wrobleski’s '02 previous school record score of 300.75 set in November
2001.

Davidson and Wofford were deadlocked in a scoreless tie late in regulation when Greg Macnamara '12 sent a crossing pass
to Yannick Pilgrim '11 in the middle of the field where the sophomore calmly slid the ball past the Terriers’
keeper in the 76th minute to secure the Southern Conference road win for the 'Cats.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Pilgrim nets late game-winner in Wildcats’ 1-0 win over Wofford
