2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

"Instructing some Davidson football players in Kung Fu, the off-season cross-training was a great way for the players to stay in shape while enhancing their agility," Robert Mudano said. "Our main focus is on increasing flexibility, gaining strength, and learning self-defense skills."

"Spirit of Democracy" proposes goals
By MICHELLE JESTER
Managing Editor

Renowned author and Stanford University professor Larry Diamond presented a lecture entitled "The Spirit of Democracy: The Global Boom, Recession, and Renewal" on Monday, leading a discussion that centered on democratic recession and possible plans for renewal.

In the past decade, there has been an erosion of freedom as democracy has experienced an accelerating pace of recession. In fact, since the Cold War, there have been more countries that have suffered declines in freedom than those that have gained freedoms. Diamond began his lecture by tracing the transitions and patterns of global democracy over the past 35 years. Whereas in 1974 only 27 percent of all independent states were democracies, 61 percent of independent states were democracies by 1995, over half of which were previously authoritarian states.

Although many of these democracies are located in the Western developed world, Diamond pointed out that one-third of the Asian nations as well as one-half of the Sub-Saharan African nations, in addition to many countries in Latin America and Eastern Europe, have become democracies. As to what constitutes a "democracy," Diamond clarified that democracies are political systems in which citizens can choose and replace their leaders in fair multiparty elections. Diamond also noted that citizens in a democracy should have a level playing field to politically organize, contest the government, and express themselves freely.

However, after 1995, the rate of democratic expansion leveled off so that the percentage of democracies remained between 61-63 percent. Diamond explained that this recession is due to the declining levels of trust in political institutions such as presidents, courts, parties, and parliaments. In public polls conducted in democratic nations throughout the world, many people rejected military rule while only some considered authoritarian options. Still, some people were becoming more and more dissatisfied with their own democracy. With the increase in corrupt political leaders, weak and ineffective political institutions, abuse of human rights, and poor economic development, many in democratic nations have lost faith in democracy as the best form of government and in some cases have turned to more authoritarian forms of government because of the stability it provides, at least in the short term.

Another significant factor to the democratic recession is the rise in oil demands and costs. Of the 23 countries that derive more than 60 percent of their export earnings from oil and gas, none are democracies. These countries were able to sever the connection between the people and the government because the government did not need to depend on taxation to function, which negated its liability to the people. "Oil and democracy don't mix," Diamond said. Although this statement portrays a dismal future, Diamond wholeheartedly believed that creating and strengthening democracies throughout the world is an achievable goal.

Students and faculty discuss Patterson Court
By JULIA EDWARDS
Staff Writer

The Patterson Court Council (PCC) and Order of Omega held a student-faculty exchange last Thursday, a discussion that both organizations hope to be the first in a series that will allow students and faculty to speak openly about issues on Patterson Court. Leaders of eating houses and fraternities sat at round tables in the 900 Room with professors and members of the administration. Each table included a student facilitator.To probe the discussion and record comments to share with PCC, the conversation began by addressing the question, “How does Patterson Court contribute to both inclusion and exclusion within the Davidson College community?” One table discussed the low representation of international and minority students in eating houses and fraternities. “Are there things about Patterson Court organizations caused by either their make-up or activities that make them unappealing to minorities and international students?” Dean Kathy Bray-Merrell asked. Her table pondered the question and offered several examples that showed evidence of the concern. The heavy focus on alcohol as a social activity could often turn off students from cultures that are less centered on drinking. Also, some fraternities have national allegiances to historically racist figures. However, students did not blame the lack of diversity exclusively on the Court. Many said that minority and international students found their social connections elsewhere. “People want to feel an automatic connection to a specific group,” Will Coughlin ’09 said. “When that option is available, people can be unwilling to look for other groups where such connection may not be readily apparent.”

Other tables strayed from the inclusion and exclusion topic to focus on the faculty’s view of Patterson Court. Professors Carol Kruger and Kristi Multhaup admitted that they have a limited view of Patterson Court that comes mainly from what they read about in the news or see from tired students in their classrooms. Most of their concerns centered on alcohol abuse. “I have often wondered if everything is more extreme on Patterson Court or if that is just our misperception,” Multhaup said. Students explained that Patterson Court often takes the blame for alcohol-related accidents because it holds such a large concentration of Davidson’s social activities. “Davidson has a much larger percentage of students involved in Patterson Court organizations than most schools have in their Greek systems,” Julie Palm ’10 said. “Naturally, as a result of its large membership, the majority of social behavior takes place on the Court in comparison to other areas on campus.”

At the end of the exchange, each table had the chance to share their ideas with the room. All attendees said they would like to see more opportunities for faculty and student interactions on Patterson Court. They suggested that Patterson Court faculty advisors play a larger role in the life of the house and students offer faculty an opportunity to participate in service projects. However, the group had less concrete suggestions on how to make Patterson Court a more inclusive environment. “It’s hard to balance inclusivity with the pride of individual houses,” Mike Parsons ’08 said. The organizers of the exchange, Sarah Frey ’08 and Emily May ’10, said that their event was a success but recognize that the forum is only the beginning. “We have two major goals for the series. It seeks to strengthen relationships outside the classroom and to unite faculty and students in candidly addressing topics concerning Patterson Court and student life,” May said.

Diamond, also involved in global policy and international development through his positions as a consultant and adviser to various governmental and nongovernmental agencies, proposed what he believed to be the key goal to renewing and ultimately preserving democracy: fostering good governance. According to Diamond, in order for democracy to succeed and endure, it needs a capable government that adheres to the rule of law and is accountable for its actions. This government needs to be committed to the public good while allowing citizen participation and dialogue. Diamond also advocated for international institutions of accountability that investigate developing democratic governments to ensure that they are adhering to the spirit of democracy. That way, corruption and abuse of power can be eliminated while faith in democracy can be reestablished. In concluding his presentation, Diamond warned that in working toward this goal, we need to encourage people to focus on long-term sustainable change rather than embracing short-term stability that can be achieved by other forms of government.

OLAS & Timmy Foundation Charity Ball: “¡BAILEMOS!” April 4, 6-10pm Harrison Room @ Vail Commons Co-Sponsored by PS Come eat a delicious Latin American Dinner and dance to a LIVE Salsa Band! All profits from this event will go to Timmy Foundation to help build a Hospital in Quito, Ecuador. Tickets on sale now! Buy them for $12 at the Timmy table near the fireplace in the Union or $15 at the door. Eight-person tables are on sale for $100.