THE DAVIDSONIAN  
Arts & LIVING  
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 2008  

The fair lady still reigns and shines as brightly as ever  
By JENNIFER ERRINGTON  
Arts & Living Editor  

For anyone who has ever wanted to fall in love with the epitome of elegance, find solace in the rare collection of superbly executed cinematic roles, or admire the humanitarian work of a passionate individual, search no further. Here she is, the ethereal, sixty-seven inches of timeless beauty, who in 1961, suffered the “red hots” in apartment No. 169 on 71st Street, location New York City. Meet Holly Golightly, that amorously lopsided, unforgettably eccentric, Upper East Side mix of evening soirees and lemon twists. Armed proudly with that crucial blue Tiffany’s bag status symbol and clutching the infamous Danish, she was the late 1950s fashionista who graced the protagonist of Truman Capote’s novella with aplomb and charm. And Golightly’s large signature on the big screen ushered in the public’s full realization of the cinematic hallmark and timeless breath of fresh air: Audrey Hepburn.

However, behind the dark glasses of her most famous role, the unscripted, ontological story of Hepburn’s life begs to receive a credit among the 30 fictional roles that she would portray throughout her career. So here is a tribute to her thirty-first role; the lesser-known story of a demure, Dutch-English aspiring ballerina destined for cinematic and humanitarian greatness.

Born in Brussels on May 4, 1929, Audrey Kathleen van Heemstra was part of a rich familial lineage, with blue blood tracing back to England’s King Edward III and subsequently to Princess Diana, as well as Prince Rainier III of Monaco and Humphrey Bogart, a distant cousin with whom she starred and enacted a love affair in “Sabrina” (1954). She was fluent in English, French, Spanish, Italian, and Dutch, which would later help in her humanitarian endeavors around the world.

However, starting in 1935, Hepburn suffered a series of emotional traumas which began when her English father and Nazi-sympathizer Joseph Victor Anthony Ruston divorced her mother, thus abandoning the family. Four years later, the family moved to the Netherlands, which the Germans invaded the following year, forcing Audrey to adopt the new name Edda van Heemstra. However, despite Dutch depression and anti-Semitic violence, Hepburn heavily pursued her passion to be a ballerina, which she continued in London. However, to her detriment, the Germans who had depleted the Dutch of food and fuel during WWII, caused a famine which significantly weakened Hepburn with anemia, amenorrhea, respiratory complications, and oedema. Her first dream to dance was never realized.

Audrey Hepburn is still a national icon, years after her death. However, refusing to retire her toe shoes, Hepburn’s first significant role as an actress came in 1952, when she played an aspiring ballerina in the film “Secret People.” Capitalizing upon her experience, the next year Hepburn starred opposite Gregory Peck in the charming “Roman Holiday,” in lieu of famous contender Elizabeth Taylor, the role for which Hepburn earned her first and only Oscar. After a seven-year contract with Paramount, Hepburn solidified herself as a burgeoning actress well on her way to becoming a legend of cinema. While off the silver screen, her lithe beauty did not escape the notice of haute designer Hubert de Givenchy, who adopted Hepburn as his muse, dressing her petite frame with the most progressive and formidable styles of the fashion world.helping to launch Audrey’s own stature as an icon of couture. By the early 1960s, Hepburn was a versatile, highly-respected actress, embodying varying roles which included a beatnik (“Funny Face,” 1957), Natasha Rostov in a film rendition of “War and Peace” (1956), and a sister in “The Nun’s Story” (1959), all in preparation for the magna opera “Breakfast at Tiffany’s” (1961), in which Hepburn seemed a logical preference over Marilyn Monroe, and “My Fair Lady” (1964). By the end of her cinematic career, she was one of the only actresses ever to have won an Oscar, Tony, and Grammy. 

In the days following her innumerable moments of shining, effortless beauty and grace, the once-swan-princess traded the spotlight of glamour and mysticism in Hollywood’s made-up headlines for the bleak and horrifying reality of starving and orphaned children. Following her last role in “They All Laughed,” Hepburn was appointed a Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), for which she would work until her death in 1993. She began her work in 1988, when she visited an orphanage in Mek’ele, Ethiopia. Subsequent missions included work in Turkey, Venezuela, Ecuador, Guatemala, the Sudan, and Bangladesh. Hepburn’s last appearance as a humanitarian came in Somalia, four months before she died, which experience she claimed to be the most psychologically traumatic, on account of the widespread starvation and bleak chance for improvement. However, mindful of her own struggles during Nazi occupation and failing health, Hepburn insisted upon staying and bringing the children hope. When she returned to the United States in 1992, President George Bush awarded Hepburn the Presidential Medal of Freedom for her relief work in conjunction with UNICEF. 

After inspiring millions with her talent and beauty in films, and grace and humility in striving for a better world, Hepburn’s immense story came to a tragic end, just four months after her return from abroad. Suffering from malignant cancer which began in her appendix, Hepburn underwent a laparoscopy and chemotherapy, followed by two desperate surgeries. Colon cancer claimed her life in January 1993. To this day, Hepburn’s legacy far outlives any transitory affinity for an item of pop status. Named one of the most beautiful people of all time, her magnificent impact upon the world can be traced from current styles emulating her image to modern biographies and documentaries, from monetary donations to organizations for starving children and festivals in her honor. 

Audrey taught us what it means to be a lady. In a time when women such as Monroe and Claire Bloom flaunted their patent sexuality, Hepburn led by example with a demure, fresh-faced innocence that rendered her unsurpassable in beauty, grace, and charm. Her discretion and modesty illuminated the heart in her hand, and gave her an anachronistic aristocracy for having behaved herself in a world of tyrannical extroversion. Over 15 years later, while stars grace rehab centers and scandals flood the headlines, one thing remains true. The charming ballerina in pearls and relief gear is an emissary from a better world, and the fairest lady.