THE DAVIDSONIAN

LESSER PHOENICIAN’S BALL CELEBRATES FIVE YEARS OF MEDIOCRITY SEE PAGE 7

STUDENT GETS LICE AT HEALTH CENTER SEE PAGE 2

VIOLENT URGE TO SMASH UNION PIANO, PLAYER SEE PAGE 10

CLEVER STUDENT DRESSES AS HIMSELF FOR HALLOWEEN SEE PAGE 4

UNION SAVES MONEY BY BUYING FLAT SCREEN TV’S WITHOUT ON SWITCHES SEE PAGE 8

COMMUNITY BIKE RESPECTED SEE PAGE 7

THE YOWL

Your Davidson Honor

Section Editors: Dan Killian, Alex Hoyt
Contributors: Anjan Mukherjee, Patrick de Visscher, Lawrence Kluttz, Will Coughlin

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

THE REAL PERSPECTIVES SECTION

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2008

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Phi Delts Pummel Pumpkins at Pulmonary Philanthropy Party

Last Saturday at the “F” Apartments, the Phi Delta Fraternity introduced a new fundraising event to their philanthropic repertoire. Based
off of Connor’s breast cancer fundraiser where hundreds of bras are hung throughout the Union, the Phi Delts decided to
decorate the grass around “F” hoping that their randomly strewn “pulmonary pumpkins” would raise awareness for lung cancer.

“Basically, the pumpkin represents a lung. The broken pumpkin represents what cancer does to your lungs. Us hurling the pumpkins
hella hard and real far represents lung cancer attacking the human body,” remarked sophomore Phi Delta brother Sam Haskins. When
asked what physical plant cleaning up the pumpkins represented, Phi Delta Theta declined to comment.

As Michael Clemente ’12 left “F” Saturday, he did so with a friendly philanthropic reminder aimed at the right side
of his head. “Before the pumpkin leveled me I was only thinking about getting more beer, but as my feet
left the ground and the pumpkin shattered my right cheekbone, I fully came to realize that lung cancer was a
very serious issue in today’s society,” commented Clemente. Phillip Brodsky took a 15-foot running start out of his third-floor apartment
in order to maximize the impact of the pulmonary publicity.

Their next event, “Theta’s Trash T.V.’s for Typhoid” will take place between the hours of 10 p.m. and 2 a.m.
next Saturday.

Union Café’s Red Baskets Cause Increase in Picnicking

Last week the union café eliminated the use of paper trays, replacing them with more attractive plastic red baskets. The
move came as a surprise to plastic analysts, many of whom feel that the rise of crude plastic prices has
caused dwindling plastic consumption in recent months. On the other hand, community action groups across campus have expressed their jubilation
with the decision. Theo Pennant ’10, President of F.U.T.I.L.L.E. said Tuesday, “the café’s clear encouragement of picnicking is a huge
relief to those who constantly worry about the erosion of our communal eating environment.”

Skeptics argue that the baskets are just another phase in the café’s collaborative scheme with the laundry service. “It’s obvious
that Lula Bell and the Café chose flimsy utensils and paperless plastic baskets to cause more stains on our pants;
more stains mean more laundry business,” said a sophomore who wished to remain anonymous. Whatever the motives, one fact remains
clear: flimsy forks and bright red baskets are here to stay.

Supporters Nationwide Rejoice

WASHINGTON - After one of the most heated elections in American history, aDistinguished Senator won the Presidency today. In a
victory speech given to his supporters at Boston’s Faneuil Hall, he told supporters that he would bring change to Main
Street with a strong opinion on the war in Iraq and a tax plan designed around those making over $250,000
a year. Change has certainly been a hallmark of the election season, and the Senator’s opponent vowed to continue fighting
any changes the new President will bring to Washington. “Change is what this country needs,” he argued in his concession
speech, “but his change is the wrong change. We need real change, change that’s able to change over time as
the country changes.”

The closing weeks of the election saw increased interest in each candidate’s economic stimulus package for the beleaguered plumbing industry.
Pundits have argued for weeks that the Senator’s stance on the $700 billion dollar plumbing bailout plan recently passed by
Congress would make or break his election. HVAC professionals, who have also seen their industry collapse, voted en masse for
the Senator after he spent the past few days highlighting his strong opinion on the plumbing bailout. In an interview
with CNN’s Campbell Brown, plumbing lobbyist Joe Wurzelbacher described the election results as “significant.” The president (center) is congratulated by
a few of his closest supporters.

The focus now turns to the new President’s potential cabinet officials. Throughout the election, he has discussed the need for
reconciliation between the parties, but most media outlets predict partisan appointments. Thus far, the new President has been understandably vague
about potential appointees. In a speech last Wednesday, he said he would “look to those traditional beating hearts of American
politics — Alaska and Delaware — to begin the process of building [his] cabinet.”

Opinion: Pot Luck Dinners Have and Will Always Be Socialist

During this election cycle, I have heard many people describe certain tax policies as socialist. They cry, “America is not
socialist! We’re a winner take all nation!” I’ll tell you what’s socialist though: pot luck dinners. I cannot think of
a more socialist dining ritual than this redistributive nature of food sharing. In this socialist dining ritual, individuals labor over
a dish, then bring that dish to a gathering, and finally have to watch others take what is rightfully theirs.
This is “spreading the wealth” at its worst. What’s mine is mine and I don’t like sharing. I spend $50
and toil for 4 hours making my specialty, marinated grain-fed filet, just so those who are lower on the totem
pole can enjoy the fruits of my labor.

Which leads me to my next point: the lack of a proper social hierarchy within the potluck group. Those who
are predetermined to bring salad get to enjoy a far superior main course AND a much tastier dessert. It’s simply
un-American for those who buy ready-tossed salad to get the same benefits as those who work long and hard for
a main course. I mean, would we impose high taxes on the top earners simply to provide greater tax breaks
for the low-income workers, thereby spreading around the nation’s wealth? Someone needs to put an end to this culinary wealth
spreading.
