Rep. Ed =a ~« i*. iz: @ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST — 7 1 President Tom Ross ’72 and Rep. John
Spratt '64 after Convocation last Saturday. Following Saturday's convocation speech, The Davidsonian sat down with Rep. John Spratt ’64 (D-S.C.),
chairman of the House Committee on the Budget. Spratt was Student Body President during his time at Davidson. The following
are excerpts from the interview.

Davidsonian: What role do you see college students, and Davidson students in particular, playing in affecting social change today?

Spratt: Well, now you can vote when you’re 18. We were not voting citizens until 21. So that makes a
difference. And I think the students of today are a bit more interested in politics, partly because of the media
phenomena like C-SPAN, for example, bringing politics into the living room. The internet, of course, is just a huge, anarchic
expanse. If you ever get on the wrong side of the bloggers, you’ll know what I mean.

D: Are you referring to a specific incident?

COLLEGE WEEKLY” @ a ij -— WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2008

Spratt: Exclusive interview

JS: I was having a conversation with [former Democratic National Committee chair] Don Fowler on the airplane coming back from
the convention in Denver. And he said, ‘The hurricane is due to hit New Orleans right about the time the
Minneapolis Convention starts.’ As you can tell, I’m a little hard of hearing; I’ve got to get a new hearing
aid. I said, ‘I understand the hurricane is coming up the eastern seaboard.’ I thought he said New York, not
New Orleans. He said, ‘No. No. New Orleans.’ Then he said, ‘God is just.’ Well, there happened to be a
guy right behind me who recorded it with his cell phone. He put that up on YouTube, and the last
time I checked that thing got 400,000 hits. There’s not much you can do about it. You can put out
disclaimers; you can put out explanations; you can hope people read some sort of cross-referencing. But it’s a powerful underground
medium, barely above ground medium.

D: Which way do you think North Carolina will go?

JS: Well, I’m an optimist. I think it’ll go for Obama.

D: Do you think he has a shot in...

See Spratt, page 2

Political debate honors College's

by Kara Jones
Staff Writer

Many parents and students passing by Chambers Lawn last Saturday paused for a peek at the buzzing commotion between Phi
and Eu Halls, two of the oldest buildings on Davidson’s campus. They soon discovered that the spirited speaking, in turn
with cheering and shouting, was a part of a presidential debate between representatives of the Young Democrats and College Republicans.
Young Democrats Zeke Webster ’09, DJ Carella ’09 and Alice Phillips ’12 stood behind a podium on the balcony of
Phi Hall, while College Republicans Mike Jucewicz ’10, Ryan Gough ’10 and Jenner Gibson ’11 faced them on the balcony
of Eu Hall. Students, parents, professors and community members formed...An audience on the ground below, standing in the middle and
turning their heads back and forth to watch the speakers. The event marked the third such presidential debate between Young
Democrats and College Republicans, the first having taken place during the 2000 presidential election, remembered as one of the most
controversial election years in American history. This forming tradition may be a move to resurrect Davidson’s lost debate history. Formal
debating on campus began between the two literary societies, Philanthropic Society and Eumanean Society, both founded in the college’s inaugural
year, 1837, and still alive today. Each had their respective halls built in 1850, conveniently facing each other for the
purpose of cross-society debate. Some old debate topics include: Semester vs. trimester? Has eloquence more influence over the human mind
than music? Should students (then all male) be excluded from female society? In the 1890s, Davidson finally started an intercollegiate
debate team that did well from the start, winning two-thirds of its debates between 1909 and 1929. Davidson’s debate history
continues.

Parents and students gather to watch the College Republicans and Young Democrats debate election issues.

Nickelback song at frat parties at an all-time low.

Political Connection will host an election night party on Nov. 4 in the 900 Room starting at 7 p.m. This
will be the culminating event in a series of political events sponsored by the Political Connection. Political Connection is a
bipartisan effort by the Young Democrats and College Republicans to increase awareness around this year’s Presidential election, according to Dr.
Patrick Sellers, a professor of Political Science. After receiving an $8,500 grant from the Improve Davidson Fund last spring, Political
Connection this year has organized four events plus a nonpartisan voter registration drive. These events included the debate between the
College Republicans and Young Democrats, hosted Saturday. While these events have been critical parts of Political Connection’s goal to increase
awareness this fall, the election night party was the keystone part of the grant proposal.

Their party, according to Sellers, will be “very much a student-run event.” This party is a joint effort of Political
Connection and the Union Board, as well as other supporters who have not been confirmed yet. The plans for the
night include gag gifts, lots of food, a political version of the popular word game Mad Libs, a bar from
10 p.m. to 1 a.m. and, of course, election night coverage by CNN projected on the big screen in the
900 Room. DJ Carella, President of the Young Democrats, said that Chick-fil-A and Domino's will be catering late into the
night, and the Union Café will have special food for the night. “For example, you could order a ‘Joe Biden’
for dinner,” Carella said.

Field hockey extends streak to three.
