THE DAVIDSONIAN

Reminders of racism hint at broken society

Clint Smith, Guest Columnist

For many, the holiday season provided an excellent time to recharge. While I enjoyed my break, it was also an
unfortunate reminder of our society’s shortcomings. During break, I was subjected to several incidents of racial profiling. Though these incidents
may seem like coincidences I should have disregarded, they point to racist undertones that still smear our country.

The first incident occurred in my hometown of New Orleans. I sat at the dreaded DMV waiting for my number
to be called. When it came time to take my photo, I smiled like it was my birthday and showed
off the result of five years of braces and relentless brushing. Curiously, the receptionist told me not to smile “for
identification purposes.” I was puzzled because I had never heard of such a rule. I didn’t give it a second
thought and simply took a picture that made me look like one of “America’s Most Wanted.” Before walking out the
door, I turned to wish the receptionist a Merry Christmas. At that moment, she took a second glance. I wondered
if this was due to the fact that I was black and the woman behind me in line was white.
Standing in front of the screen, this woman smiled like she had just won a date with Brad Pitt. I
expected the receptionist to tell her not to smile as well, but she didn’t. She continued to make the woman’s
license without giving a second glance. I wondered if this was due to the fact that I was black and
the woman was white. I couldn’t think of any other reason. I wanted to scream and call attention to the
situation, but realized that yelling would only make things worse. I left the DMV angry because I felt this white
receptionist had not allowed me to smile because I was a young black man. That day, I asked some friends
if this had ever happened to them. While no black girls said it had, at least a quarter of the
black men I asked had heard of similar things. Was the DMV trying to force young black men to take
mug shots?

The second incident occurred when my friends and I, all black, were driving home late at night. Minutes away from
my house, we were distressed to hear the sound of police sirens directly behind us. I was bewildered because I
did not think I had violated any laws. The officer approached my car, asked me for my license and registration,
and turned back toward his car. When he returned, he asked me if I knew why I had been pulled
over. I said that I had no idea. He claimed that I had “accelerated too quickly out of the stop
light,” a statement that stunned and infuriated me. I had never heard that rule and was fairly certain that it
didn’t exist. I had been driving on a road where the speed limit was 40 mph and I hadn’t even
exceeded 35! The police officer said he would let me off with a “warning” and to be more careful next
time. “Be careful of what?” I thought to myself. Police officers like you who try to abuse their authority to
incriminate young black men? I rolled up my window and pulled away, feeling like the world was out to get
me based upon nothing more than my skin color.

While racism in America may not show up as white power and cross-burning, it is still a prominent fixture in
our society, simply more covert. I don’t mean to say that all whites are racist—bigotry transcends cultural boundaries and can
come from the words or actions of people from every creed, color, and culture. The most important thing for us
to know is that we can neither ignore racism nor heed its presence and do nothing. We have a responsibility
to eradicate it from our school, our cities, and our country. Next time you hear somebody say something that may
have a racist undertone, whether they are cognizant of it or not, let them know that it’s not okay. In
remembrance of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., let us not allow these ugly occurrences to mar a beautiful world.

Clint Smith '10 is undeclared. He is from New Orleans, LA. Contact him at clsmith@davidson.edu.

PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2008 9

Free speech board lacks sincerity

MIKE WATERS, Guest Columnist

The Free Speech Board, located in the Alvarez College Union, stands as a 3x4 foot intermingling of honest opinion, devil’s
advocates, general buffoonery, school spirit, and off-topic mumblings from the chemically impaired. The subject of recent hub of controversy, the
Free Speech Board attracts regulars to the Union who wish to view tabloid answers to serious questions. The drastic contrast
in tones between the question posed and the respective posts, as well as between posts themselves, is funny on occasion.
The irony manifested in both the board’s spectacular success and failure to achieve its goal is also at times funny.
Today’s society seems appropriately represented in the Free Speech Board: some people wholeheartedly try to tackle the problem head-on, while
others kick back, play the comedian, and go on “living the dream.” “Funny,” however, comes at a cost to all
those involved. The Free Speech Board’s failure is a minor but absolute refutation of Davidsonian principles. While the Free Speech
Board is at heart a praiseworthy idea, its flippant-debate format and its silent tolerance of posts endorsing rape, racism, and
substance abuse necessitates its reform.Answers to serious questions. Ross White ’09, co-president of Just Peace, which sponsors and monitors the
board, described the mission of the student organization: “to stimulate and provide a forum for student discussion about issues both
on campus and globally.” On paper, the Free Speech Board seems a perfect fit for an admirable organization’s exemplary goal.
Upon closer inspection, however, posts fall short of thoughtful and noteworthy discourse. “We’ve had some minor problems with comments not
related to post topics whatsoever and with responses with lots of expletives,” White said. He also stated that while Just
Peace does not endorse any views expressed on the board, they leave the dismissing of potentially offensive posts to other
posters who “call each other out.” The ideology is understandable (The “Censored” Free Speech Board is not as catchy). However,
the laissez-faire sentiment allows responses to the question “What can Davidson do about sexual assault?” such as “‘No’ means ‘no’
except when her body says ‘yes’” and just as alarmingly “young money cash money” to remain in plain sight as
anonymous statements tolerated by the Davidson community.

The format of the Free Speech Board also hinders its ability to accomplish Just Peace’s goals. Posts usually consist of
blurby one-liners or what White calls “bumper sticker statements.” The flippant, one-liner battles often fail to inform and always fall
short of discourse representative of Davidson College. “We recognize the board has its limitations and that it is difficult to
establish an entire viewpoint,” White said. However, “Bumper sticker statements are better than nothing.” White and Just Peace are looking
into creating an internet forum where students can fully communicate their thoughts. That move may not only lead to more
effective argument but also might be able to assign accountability to posts.

This perspective is not a call to arms. This article is not an attempt to censor opinion. This article is
an attempt to keep blatantly offensive and significantly harmful material regarding issues of race, assault, etc. out of public tolerance.
Free speech comes with a caveat: we are all accountable for what we say. Just Peace’s goal for intelligent student
discourse relies on student ability to express fully their point of view. The Free Speech Board’s lack of poster accountability
and means for in-depth arguments therefore warrant its trip back to the drawing board.

Mike Waters ’10 is a Biology major from Centreville, VA. Contact him at miwaters@davidson.edu.

---

Reservations about Barack Obama

“Obama-mania” has spread across the country in the past month, or at least through the media. News organizations like NBC
have drooled over the gifted speaker, Barack Hussein Obama. NBC got so caught up in the frenzy that it forgot
to hide its leftist ties and openly declared its bias towards him. Obama apparently lights the liberal fire. A President
Obama, however, spells disaster for the country conceived by Madison and Jefferson and built by Washington and Lincoln.

Obama’s foreign policy positions can only be described as disastrous. He has refused to characterize the Iranian Republican Guard as
a terrorist organization, yet has openly suggested bombing Pakistan. He also stands behind the idea of a complete military pull-out
from Iraq; he apparently wishes to portray a weak America which quits while winning. Due to such successes, Obama decided
to abstain from declaring his support for the architect of the triumphs, Gen. David Petraeus and our military. Obama, however,
was quite ready to sign a letter attacking a private citizen, Rush Limbaugh.

His desire to be universally likable is also somewhat disconcerting. I would rather certain elements did not like the United
States, like radical Islamists and individuals with no respect for women, children or humanity in general. If these groups start
liking the United States, a radical change in policy will be necessary. Obama has continually stated that Americans’ security is
inextricably linked to everyone’s security. Now that is a quaint thought, but I do not understand in what way I
can share security with a terrorist.

Obama includes the fact that he lived in Indonesia from ages six through 10 and that his biological father is
Kenyan as ample experience and credentials to justify his foreign policy positions. Apparently, in today’s world this is enough to
hand over nuclear launch codes. I have been to Italy for two weeks. Am I now an expert on Italian
affairs? He has also stated that because he has family members in African tribal villages, he is better suited to
help Africa. That would be great if he were running for President of Africa, but I would rather he helped
Americans first.

Obama has also touted certain decision-making abilities that make him suitable for the Oval Office. Such decisions include consistently opposing
the Iraq War. I am not sure how opposing victory makes for a good decision, but it is all he
has. A distinct anti-Semitic and anti-Israeli tilt also mars Obama’s character. His mentor and pastor, Jeremiah Wright Jr., is a
supporter of Louis Farrakhan. This pastor even traveled with Farrakhan to visit the Libyan terrorist Col. Muammar al-Gaddafi. Wright has
continually preached against Israel. Even though Obama has called Wright his spiritual mentor and moral compass, the Obama campaign has
publicly distanced itself from him. In Wright’s own words, Obama “can’t afford Jewish support to wane or start questioning his
allegiance to Israel.”

Though Obama cries for change, does that really mean anything? The type of change he wants would not push America
forward, but backwards.

Bobby DesPain ’11 is undeclared. He is from St. Louis, MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.
