4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

---

Belcher, from page 1

extremely useful.

Belcher presented a long list of qualities she wanted the biomaterial she created to possess, including self-assembling, self-correcting, and self-healing.
“When I show this list to an audience, I hear laughter,” Belcher said.

Yet, Belcher noted that biology has mastered most of the qualities presented on her list.

“Our research usually starts off with, ‘Wouldn't it be interesting if...?’ and we work from there.”
- Angela Belcher

Belcher used the example of a snowflake, assembled around a tiny seed particle. “What could the seed be for electronics?”
Belcher said.

This question led Belcher to explore DNA insertions into the genetic code of a virus. Because of the new DNA,
the virus will grow a new protein tip.

Belcher’s lab utilizes a combinatorial approach, inserting DNA into billions of safe viruses, and then forcing them to interact with
inorganic material, such as metal ions. The viruses that then bind to ions are separated and identified for replication and
use as building materials.

While she uses a lot of biology in her research, Belcher says she mainly focuses on “What can biology do
for me?” Belcher has proven biology can do a lot, in areas many never would have thought possible.

Belcher noted the advantages of using biology to engineer materials.

“When you start to make a material, you always have an opportunity to make it better,” Belcher said, noting the
connection with natural selection.

Belcher is working on developing batteries, solar cells, water-splitting to create hydrogen gas, fuel cells, nanoelectronics, and medical diagnostics.

During her talk, Belcher focused on her battery development, though her research in that area is so extensive it was
impossible to finish her presentation in the time allotted.

The battery Belcher and her laboratory have developed has the advantage of being ultra-thin, lightweight, and containing a higher storage
capacity.

Though the picture of the battery she showed was employed to light a small, red LED light, Belcher believes the
technology may be employed to power cell phones, laptops, and similar devices. She noted that we are a long way
from seeing such research applied to power vehicles or larger machinery.

Belcher said that she went from the idea to making the materials in about a year and a half, creating
the first self-assembled virus battery.

One of the valuable lessons Belcher said she has learned along the way is not to try to develop the
perfect overall solution, but instead to look at questions they can answer and proceed from that point.

“Our research usually starts off with, ‘Wouldn’t it be interesting if...?’ and we work from there,” Belcher said.

Belcher and her laboratory embrace challenge. “We want to work on things that are very hard but not impossible.”

Davidson’s Smith Lecture series was established in 1985 to honor President Emeritus Henry Louis Smith (1901-1912) by bringing a distinguished
scientist to campus every year.

---

NEWS

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 2008

---

Prior to her Smith Lecture, Angela Belcher spoke with a small group of students in Martin Chemistry Building.

---

The Piedmont Liberal Forum and The Department of Physics and Optical Science at UNC Charlotte very proudly present a talk
by George V. Coyne, S. J. Director Emeritus of the Vatican Observatory

Cosmology, Evolution, and God: The Dance of the Fertile Universe.

Did we come about by chance or by necessity in the evolving universe? Did God make us? Can we conclude
that there is an Intelligent Design to the universe? To what extent can the natural sciences address these questions? As
to chance or necessity, the first thing to be said is that the problem is not formulated correctly. It is
not just a question of chance or necessity because, first of all, it is both. Furthermore, there is a third
element here that is very important. It is what we might call the “fertility” of the universe. So the dance
of the fertile universe is a ballet with three ballerinas: chance, necessity, and fertility. What this means is that the
universe is so fertile in offering the opportunity for the success of both chance and necessary processes that such a
character of the universe must be included in the search for our origins in the universe. In this light, I
am going to try to present in broad strokes what I think is some of the best of our modern
scientific understanding of the universe and then return to the questions above.

Book signing, coffee, and refreshments will follow Father Coyne’s talk. For more information and directions, visit physics.uncc.edu/coyne.html or call The
Department of Physics and Optical Science at 704-687-8132.

Monday, April 14 at 7 p.m. on the UNC Charlotte campus. Room 100 Fretwell Building. Visitor parking is available.

ADMISSION IS FREE - ALL ARE WELCOME!
