THE DAVIDSONIAN: Ray Francis Staff Writer

Bo Ehikioya ran for 222 yards and three touchdowns as the Marist Red Foxes held off the Davidson Wildcats 24-19 Saturday at Richardson Stadium. Ryan Alexander ’09 threw for 189 yards and two touchdowns on 22-37 passing to lead the Wildcat attack. He also passed the 9,000-yard mark for career passing yards, adding to the school record that he already owns.

“I feel blessed to have played this much football,” Alexander said after the game. “It feels strange to accept any individual recognition in such a team sport, though. Obviously, none of these yards are possible without my teammates.”

Kirk Konert ’09 led the receiving corps with five receptions for 46 yards and a touchdown while Peter Bakke ’09 and Tyler Lemons ’10 led the defense with 11 and 10 tackles, respectively.

Marist struck first when the 240-pound Ehikioya rumbled 31 yards for a touchdown midway through the first quarter. The Wildcats struck back, capping a 20-play, 85-yard drive with a 25-yard field goal by Ben Behrendt ’11 with three minutes left in the second quarter. Marist answered with a 28-yard field goal from Kevin Pauly with 30 seconds remaining to produce a 10-3 halftime score.

The Wildcats jumped out of the gates quickly in all three phases of the game after halftime to take the lead away from the Red Foxes. The defense held Marist to a three-and-out on the opening possession, and the offense proceeded to march 48 yards in six plays and tie the game on Alexander’s 3-yard toss to Kirk Benedict ’10. The special teams then got in on the act, forcing a safety after Pauly watched the snap sail over his head and into the end zone on a punt attempt. The nine points gave Davidson a 12-10 lead that they carried into the fourth quarter.

Marist had the answer, however, scoring and reclaiming the lead on Ehikioya’s 8-yard run with eleven minutes to play and expanding their lead on his seven-yard run with six minutes to play. The second touchdown was set up after Alexander fumbled while being sacked deep in his own territory. The Wildcats marched down the field once more and scored with 1:07 to play on Alexander’s 22-yard strike to Konert on 4th-and-nine. Marist, however, recovered the ensuing onside kick and ran out the clock.

Marist intercepted Alexander twice in the fourth quarter to thwart Wildcat comeback attempts. The Red Foxes were completely ineffective passing the ball due to constant pressure applied by the Wildcats (throwing for only 26 yards), but their 274 rushing yards proved sufficient to carry the day. Wildcat coach Tripp Merritt said that the first interception occurred because a receiver was knocked down during a timing route. The other interception was made by a diving defender after the ball had already caromed off of the intended receiver and his defender. These breaks (as well as an offside penalty that forced Davidson to attempt their first-half field goal, one of only two Wildcat penalties in the game), seem to embody a season in which the Wildcats have often played well enough to win only to find themselves undone by an accumulation of small errors. Only one of the Wildcats’ seven losses has been by more than thirteen points and four have been by six or less.

Merritt also praised his senior class, whose career will come to an end next week against Butler, calling them “leaders on the field and in the community.” Myles Potter ’09 became the second senior to surpass the 1,000-yard mark for career receiving yardage this season with a reception late in the fourth quarter, and Bakke passed the 200-tackle mark for his career.

The loss dropped Davidson to 3-7 and 2-5 in the Pioneer Football League. Marist finished its season at 4-7. The Wildcats will now focus on the season finale against Butler at noon on Saturday at Richardson Stadium. The game will also be Senior Day.

“Ending on a winning note is very important to this team,” Alexander said. “We'll prepare this week like any other, but it will be aLittle more special for the seniors because they know this is the last game they will ever play for Davidson.” Tosser D, “Sandy” Carnegie, has spent almost 30 years representing clients who have suffered substantial injuries due to another person’s negligence or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the law including contract preparation and review, residential and commercial closings, land development and acquisition as well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia. In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community. Sandy, a Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as a commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & A.M., and has coached youth football, basketball, and baseball in the Davidson, Cornelius, and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION * PERSONAL INJURY * REAL ESTATE * WILLS & TRUSTS

Sanker shines at NCAA Regionals
PETER COSTA
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats women’s cross country team ended their 2008 season with a strong showing at the Southeast Regional Championship. Last Saturday, the Wildcats finished in 20th place (out of 32 teams), in a race held on the fast 6k course at Tanglewood Park in Clemmons, N.C. Caroline Sanker ’09 led the Wildcats with an individual finish of 25th place, and her performance earned her All-Regional Honors. She came in with a time of 21:44. Her leadership, hard work, and outstanding performances will be missed next season. Other top finishers for the Wildcats were Danielle Ruggieri ’11 (101st / 23:05), Lauren Childs ’11 (111th / 23:12), Heather Connarroe ’11 (118th / 23:17), and Jane Gay ’12 (148th / 23:46). There were a total of 231 women who ran in the event. The top-5 team finishers in the field included University of Virginia (105 points), University of Kentucky (126 points), University of North Carolina — Chapel Hill (154 points), Duke University (171 points), and William and Mary (204 points). Overall, the Wildcats had a very good season showing a combination of veteran senior leadership and talented underclassmen. Next fall, the team will return 12 of the 16 runners from this year’s team and will once again hope to compete for a Southern Conference Championship.

The men’s cross country team also completed their 2008 season with a solid finish at the Southeast Regional Championship. The 10k race was held on the flat and fast course at Tanglewood Park. Tanglewood Park is in Clemmons, N.C., and it is the home of Wake Forest University. The 10k track is broken up into a 4k loop which they ran twice and then one 2k loop. The Wildcats finished 21 out of 29 teams at the Regional. This was a very good result for the Wildcats because two of their top runners, Alex Hoyt ’09 and Tom Divinnie ’10, were unable to run due to injury. When Coach Andrew looked back on the whole season he was pleased. He said, “It was a good way to end the season. We finished ahead of UNCG who beat us at conference and [we] would have beaten WCU, who also beat us at conference, if they had finished five runners to count in the team score.” The race consisted of Davidson and 28 other Division-I teams in the Southeast. The Wildcats finished in 21st place with a score of 619 points, 553 points behind the winning Tribe from William and Mary. Other top-5 team finishers behind WMU were University of Virginia (67 points), North Carolina State University (111 points), Duke (146 points), and Liberty University (156 points). The Wildcats were led by Lance Harden ’09, who was the only Wildcat to finish in the top-100 individuals. Harden finished 88th and ran the race in 33:08. Following Harden were Greg Marcil ’11 (120th / 33:49), Charlie Schmitt ’11 (130th / 34:05), Thad Sieracki ’09 (133rd / 34:16), and Ian Tupper ’12 (148th / 34:50). Other ’Cats’ runners who didn’t factor into the scoring were: Ryan Hopkins ’12 (153rd / 35:16) and Jonathan Koch ’11 (171st / 36:17). There were a total of 212 runners who participated in this year’s Southeast Regional Championship. The men’s cross country team will return ten of this year’s thirteen members and next year will go after a Southern Conference Championship.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2008

Oklahoma, from page 12

points on seven of 11 from close and three of five from long range in his 24 minutes of play before fouling out. The Wildcats also suffered from foul trouble throughout the night as Curry picked up three fouls in the first half and was forced to watch from the bench as the ’Cats took a cold streak into the locker room at the half. In the second half, Davidson was plagued by foul trouble again as key starters Rossiter and Gosselin fouled out. The loss puts a blemish on Davidson’s record and leaves them with a 2-1 mark heading back home to Belk Arena where they will attempt to get back on the right track against the Winthrop Eagles Friday at 7 p.m. and Bryant Barr ’10. Stephen Curry looked on during the Wildcats’ season-opening 107-83 win over Guilford College.