THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2008

Ask Audrey: Valentine’s Day divides student opinions

By AUDREY
Staff Writer

The month of February is the month of love. This extends beyond love for a boyfriend/girlfriend; I believe it is
a time to give love to all the meaningful people in your life. I have heard many different opinions of
Valentine’s Day, including the following:

From the radical anti-love folks: “I hate Valentine’s Day! I am wearing all black and not smiling once. Why is
there a holiday for people who are happy and in love? What about all the people who are not?”

From those still stuck in a middle school mentality: “I am giving out Spongebob Squarepants Valentine’s cards to all my
friends! And I am carrying a bag of kisses all day long so I can give kisses to everyone!” Cute,
but it also manages to hit my gag reflex.

And finally, from those who have a modest, yet slightly twisted mentality, one similar to my own: “I am going
out to dinner with my best girlfriend at Kudzu, and I expect flowers and dark chocolate Godiva truffles from my
parents. I can’t wait to get that email from the Information Desk saying they have something for me!”

Let me tell you that any and all expectations for Valentine’s Day will only make you share the views of
opinion #1. You might recognize a particular viewpoint that is a bit more familiar to you than the others. I
appreciate the endless thoughtfulness of opinion #2, but it turns love into a generic label deprived of all meaning. Opinion
#1 only makes me depressed, probably successfully accomplishing the sole goal of their horrible pessimism towards a holiday celebrating L.O.V.E.

Sometimes we turn love into an expression that does not possess all the care it deserves. When I overhear the
ends of conversations concluding with, “Love ya gurl!” or “Love ya babe!” I wonder if she really knows what she
is saying. Because I am single, and probably will be on Valentine’s Day as well, I look forward to celebrating
all the true love in my life among great friends and family. Love is not some generic term that can
be thrown around. I am sure many people in relationships know it is a HUGE step to say “I love
you.”

For example, there are many Sex and the City references that illustrate the meaning of this small three-letter phrase. Carrie
cheated on Aidan because Mr. Big finally said “I love you” (along with other complicated reasons too numerous to name).
Those are some pretty powerful words. This is not to say that if your ex-boyfriend says “I love you” that
you should cheat on your current boyfriend. We all know Carrie had a pretty complicated relationship with Big, and she
ends up with him in Paris anyway...so perhaps I can condone her risky and complicated endeavors.

Nevertheless, love is a beautiful word that deserves gentle care when you express your feelings. Even if your schedule is
jam-packed on Thursday the 14th studying for an Art History review on Friday, I would still strongly recommend taking time
out of your day to let at least one person know how much they mean to you. Even though you
have the opportunity to tell someone how much you love them every day, Valentine’s Day is a reminder to do
something special for someone else.

---

LINK YOURSELF

This summer, link yourself into Georgetown’s extraordinary academic community, the Washington, D.C., power structure, and shopping areas, parks, monuments, nightlife,
and culture that will take you all summer to explore.

Nonbusiness majors can gain an understanding of key concepts in finance, marketing, management, accounting, communications, strategic planning, organizational behavior, information
systems. Take an advanced look at the legislative process through coursework and get experience through an internship in government or
at a nonprofit organization.

CHOOSE FROM OVER 300 COURSES

Take courses that span the intellectual spectrum — including American studies, art, math, science, business, public policy, languages, international studies,
theology, gender studies, and more. Fundamentals of Business: Leadership in a Global Economy and...business law. Public Affairs Internship and Seminar
ENROLL TODAY

any expectation of receiving something back. From my past Valentine’s Day experiences, I learned that love should always be given
unconditionally, and that means not expecting something in return. This is most definitely a hard task to accomplish when we
also want to receive an abundance of love, but I believe that the more love you freely and meaningfully give
to others, the more love will enter your life in unbelievable and unexpected ways. For all those opinion #1 folks,
I apologize if my optimism makes you vomit, but why not try out this idea of free love? I am
not referring to the sixties. There is no need for a sexual revolution on campus, but what about making time
for an emotional revolution when you take the time out of your busy Davidson day to say, “I love you”
and really mean it. Along with my question from last week, here is another: What is the best date you
have experienced? Or even better, what is the best Valentine’s Day you ever had?

Hugo Wolf Quartet members take a break from practice.

Two weeks worth of fine arts
By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

One of Davidson’s greatest assets, apart from its commitment to academic excellence, is its similarly strong support of the arts.
During the next two weeks, our classes will continue to confirm the former, but we will have the opportunity to
experience the latter during two very different but highly worthwhile events.

The visual arts exhibit “Broken Renaissance Explored,” featuring paintings by Katherine Hester ’08, is currently on display in the VAC.
On Thursday, Feb. 7, a discussion will be held between Hester and some of her Davidson models addressing the women’s
issues. The discussion is open to the public, is free of charge, and all are welcome.

Then on Feb. 13, the Davidson Concert Series will feature the Hugo Wolf String Quartet in the Tyler-Tallman Hall of
Sloan Music Center, starting at 7:30 p.m. The musical program will include Hugo Wolf’s Italian Serenade, Beethoven’s String Quartet in
B-flat major Op. 130, and Haydn’s String Quartet in D-major Op. 20. The Quartet’s members include violinists Sebastian Grutler and
Regis Bringolf, violist Gertrud Weinmeister, and cellist Florian Berner. The Quartet was named after the International Hugo Wolf Society of
Vienna because the quartet’s performing repertoire extends from the Western Classical Period to beyond the Second Viennese School, just as
Hugo Wolf’s musical style extended from the great Viennese music tradition to the transition into modern music.

Soon after its formation, the group enjoyed an impressive amount of recognition, as it won the Fifth International String Quartet
Competition in Cremona, Italy, and placed first at the 45th International G.B. Viotti Chamber Music Competition. Other laurels include the
Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra Special Prize and the European Cultural Award for Chamber Music. When the Quartet is not winning awards
for its outstanding musical achievements, it gives concerts in venues around the world, including some of the most prominent concert
halls in South America, Mexico, Japan, Europe, and the United States. It has also played radio concerts and appeared in
television productions for the BBC, Radio Berlin, KBS, and ORF.

General concert admission is $20 and $15 for seniors, while students will be admitted at the door free of charge.
Sponsors for the Feb. 13th concert include Davidson College Friends of the Arts and the local classical radio station WDAV
89.9. For more information or ticket options, call 704.894.2828. You may also purchase tickets at www.davidson.edu/tickets.

ATTENTION SENIORS!!
We have reached 54% paid participation in the Senior Class Gift — thanks to all who have participated thus far!
Don't forget that once we reach 80% participation, President Tom Ross will be MATCHING every dollar we raise up to
$10,000. We're getting closer, but we still need over 100 gifts to achieve that! Please send your gift to P.O.
Box 7170. Donations can also be given online at www.davidson.edu/giving. Thanks!! Contact Maddie or Anders if you have any questions!
(mastough or angustafson)
