6 THE DAVIDSONIAN Arts & LIVING

Bathroom pleasure reading

“Twilight,” directed by Catherine Hardwicke, is based on a series of novels from author Stephanie Meyer.

Twilight, from page 5

It is not that he didn’t want them to be friends; it is that they shouldn’t be. However, they soon
realize that they cannot be apart. As time passes and Bella witnesses different sides of Edward’s behavior, such as impossible
strength, speed, and a knack for saving her life, she begins to question exactly how human Edward really is. After
some research and help from an Indian legend, she finally comes to a conclusion: “About three things I was absolutely
positive. First, Edward was a vampire. Second, there was a part of him—and I didn’t know how dominant that part
might be—that thirsted for my blood. And third, I was unconditionally and irrevocably in love with him.”

Bella and Edward’s relationship becomes even more intimate as they delve further into a dangerous, passionate love. Even though Edward
and his family fight against their nature and eat only animals, every second that Edward and Bella are together, she
is in mortal danger. The only thing that can save her is Edward’s overpowering love. She has to believe that
his love is stronger than his thirst. Despite his love, he cannot protect her from everything, and she becomes the
target of another, less controlled vampire, James. It is going to take more than love to save Bella as she,
Edward, and his family fight to keep her alive. In the end, Edward faces the ultimate test in order to
save her life and protect her from his own eternal fate. At the end of the film, however, Bella must
decide if she would be willing to sacrifice her human soul in order to remain with Edward for eternity.

Overall, the movie’s director, Catherine Hardwicke, incorporates interesting cinematic elements that reinforce the film’s serious themes. A dark lens shades
the scenes and gives the movie an ominous tone. Also, images of the vast wilderness and turbulent seas add a
sort of sublime beauty. After this first installment of the “Twilight” series in film, fans should eagerly anticipate the release
of its sequel. “New Moon” is currently in its pre-production stages for a 2010 release.

Invest in You

Substantial scholarships, up to full-tuition, are now being awarded to top applicants for a new one-year Master’s Program in Finance
beginning Fall 2009.

- Acquire the expertise you will need to succeed in the marketplace of the future.
- Leverage a dedicated career specialist and extensive alumni network in entering the market.
- Build your leadership potential in the co-curricular program and meet with distinguished speakers.

For more information, or to apply, visit www.claremontmckenna.edu/rdsgraduate or contact us at rdsadmission@cmc.edu.

THE ROBERT DAY SCHOOL
CLAREMONT MCKENNA COLLEGE
500 E. NINTH STREET, CLAREMONT, CA 91711
TEL: 909-607-3347

BEN IRELAND
Staff Writer

Where is the best place on campus to read while doing nature’s call? Simple. The toilets located in the basement
of the library. Here, I have decided to reveal the top three toilet readers I have encountered.

1. “Half Asleep in Frog Pajamas”
One of Tom Robbins’ lesser-known novels, “Half Asleep in Frog Pajamas” is written entirely inThe second person and present tense.
At times, this narration style becomes irritating and difficult to comprehend. The book opens with Filipino broker Gwendolyn Mati befriending
a three-hundred-pound Tarot card enthusiast Q-Jo. Mati meets a financial junkie named Larry Diamond who convinces her to leave her
job and to spend her life on humankind’s unanswered questions, such as whether an Eastern mystic can cure cancer with
enemas. Motifs like beets, frogs, and explosives appear as well. The randomness that Tom Robbins throws at us with his
usage of witty quotes and extremely bizarre scenes is priceless.

2. “Tattooed Mountain Women and Spoon Boxes of Daghestan”

Robert Chenciner and his colleagues have spent many years researching the various ethnic tribes and their traditions in Daghestan, a
remote country located on the southernmost border of Russia. The book explores the women of the Daghestan tribes who give
themselves tattoos. These women believe that each tattoo serves as magical protection from evil. The tattoos also hold special medicinal
purposes. According to Chenciner’s research, the pain a woman feels when she receives a tattoo gives the women protection.

The same symbols that are tattooed on bodies are also found designed on scarves and carved on other handmade products.
In effect, the person who wears the material or buys the various handmade carvings is provided with these same magical
powers. Chenciner’s research also explores the history behind the ritual cooking spoon boxes. The spoons that were used in cooking
a family’s ritual food are stored in containers that hang from the ceilings of their living quarters. The same symbols
from the tattoos show up again on these boxes. This book contains extremely rare photographs of these women with their
tattoos as well as of the various types of scarves and other products that the tribal women had built. A
certain must-read!

3. “The Stray Shopping Carts of Eastern North America: A Guide to Field Identification”

I don’t know about you, but when I see an abandoned shopping cart on the side of the road, I
feel sorry for it. Author Julian Montague roamed around the Northeast, photographing and describing the various abandoned shopping carts she
saw. Montague divides the book into five sections that classify each type of cart. A photo is added to provide
a stunning visual description. The fourth section, entitled “Selected Specimens,” provides the reader with over three hundred pictures of beaten
and destroyed shopping carts that have been left completely trashed in the environment. Additionally, Montague, who provides no type of
biography, solely notes that she had spent six years of her life making this book. An interesting book with many
beautiful photographs that will make you look at shopping carts in a different way.

With OpenSeats, you don’t have to! Whether you need seating for a full study group, or just a quiet place
to get some work done on the computer, ITS’ new OpenSeats tool can help. With maps and availability indicators for
all of Davidson’s public computers, it’s the fastest and easiest way to find the workspace that’s right for you or
your group. Just go to www.davidson.edu/its and click on Available Lab Computers to use OpenSeats.
