THE DAVIDSONIAN

Boycotting Beijing a foolhardy move

China's time to shine has come. After so many years of economic accession, the People’s Republic has jostled its way
onto the world stage and is now ready for its big coming-out party: the Beijing 2008 Olympics.

But China's step into the spotlight has not revealed the gleaming new nation its leaders wanted to portray. Instead, China’s
recent international scrutiny has exposed some serious human rights problems—hurdles the state may not be able to leap just yet.

Recent protests and crackdowns in Tibet and China's Sichuan province have flooded the international media. It seems that not a
day goes by without a story of an extinguished torch or a silenced protest. Reports out of China have been
scant since many reporters have found themselves stripped of their access to certain regions. But this is only the beginning
of China's big-top blues. Just Monday, Amnesty International released a report, finding that executions have remained the highest in the
world, at a time when capital punishment is receding worldwide. China's police have continued to keep tabs on Internet users,
reporters, and other potential subversives. Tales of economic misery and repression continue to pour out of the ethnically diverse Chinese
hinterlands—not only Tibet, but also other regions.

Add to all that recent U.S. anger over shoddy toys, pharmaceuticals, and slipshod importing, and you have a mess. The
solution, ringing from Hollywood to Washington and France, seems to be a boycott of the opening ceremonies. Proponents of such
a boycott argue that this action will send a powerful political message to China without risking much on our side.
House Majority Leader Nancy Pelosi insists that the United States has the moral duty to reprimand China for its human
rights violations through a boycott. She claims this move would rob China of the respect it has so dearly sought.

Boycotting China's big date, however, would be the wrong move for U.S. foreign policy. While Pelosi is dead-on in affirming
that human rights policy should not change depending on the economic or military importance of the country in question, her
proposal lacks nuance and could have some dangerous consequences. A boycott of the opening ceremonies would place the U.S. in
a position of severe disrespect and only confirm what Chinese authorities have suspected about American power. The U.S. would be
excoriated as ignorant and self-serving, while China may see no more need to open up.

Indeed, robbing China of respect through a boycott risks losing some of the transparency and leniency the Chinese government has
recently seen it prudent to show. Having lost the West's respect, China may see no need to follow its policy
dictates anymore. Stringing together a U.S. boycott with a thread of other anti-Western tales would also firm up anti-U.S. sentiment
within the Chinese Politburo, making them more intractable both socially and economically.

Especially in these tough times, the U.S. cannot risk offending a country that may well be able to pull the
economic rug out from under it. Sales of Chinese imports make up a vast amount of the U.S. economy and
cannot be lightly toyed with.

So let's take a step back from some of the China-bashing. While it's true Tibet, the undervalued yuan, and executions
are huge policy issues and need to be addressed, it's very doubtful any of them would have caught fire in
the media if China had not been accorded so much respect with the Olympic games.

As China emerges into the bright light of the international community, it will realize that liberalizing measures are necessary to
maintain a stable government. Already, China has taken steps to open itself up and the U.S. would be foolish to
reject this furtive advance. Drop this talk of boycotts and bans. The only way to play ball with China is
to allow it this degree of exposure and, yes, respect. That way, human rights violations and pollution problems can come
to light, rather than remain hidden under a smog-cloud of secrecy. Don't ruin this Olympic opportunity before the first starter's
pistol has fired. It's hard to imagine China will respond well to a false start.

PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14, 2008

Davidson students to blame for low GPAs

KEVIN COOK Guest Columnist

Last week’s article, “Davidson’s GPA lower than peers,” comes to many as “proof” that there is significant grade deflation at
Davidson College. However, what is not being talked about is the possibility that students are failing to take ownership of
their marks. The popular opinion on campus is that we bend over backwards for B’s while students at other schools
get A’s handed to them. This issue highlights two of the biggest problems on our campus: a culture of excuses
and a sense of entitlement.

Ask just about any Davidson student you run into about the statistics in last week’s paper, and they'll tell you,
matter-of-factly, that they’re the result of grade deflation. This type of thinking is like someone running a race, coming in
last and then claiming that the only reason they did so badly is because their shoes slowed them down. Disregard
the notion that the other runners might be faster, because at Davidson College, that’s not a possibility. No, the only
possible answer to Davidson’s finishing last amongst other peer institutions is grade deflation. Why? Because it’s Davidson of course; and
that’s a sufficient answer.

The problem is that most Davidson students have never...been to another institution. We cannot say definitively, one way or the
other, if an English class at Richmond or Duke is graded the same way it is here. All we can
say for sure is that Davidson was significantly behind its peer institutions in terms of GPA. Thus, thinking logically, one
has to assume that this could be the result of a variety of causes, not just the convenient excuse of
grade deflation. One explanation for our lower GPA is that the average Davidson student simply cannot perform as well as
their peers. Many defenders of the “grade deflation” hypothesis will reject this theory immediately, citing the fact that incoming Davidson
students and incoming students at the peer institution are very similar in terms of the quality of their high schools,
SATs, and GPAs. Therefore, they argue that our grades essentially should be the same, or at least very close. However,
one must wonder what is happening to the students during their four years at college. Perhaps they were equal upon
entering, but clearly they are not equal upon exiting. Many will jump up simultaneously and exclaim “grade deflation!” They automatically
discount the possibility that the students at other institutions had a better education, or a better learning experience. To them,
the only possible answer is that “grade deflation” held us back. To go back to my running analogy, if the
runner loses the race, he or she cannot solely blame their shoes for holding them back; they must take into
account that there is a possibility that the other runners were either faster, or trained better. But somehow, at Davidson,
we don’t do this. We’re only worried about the shoes. At Davidson, we love rallies and we love activism. I
propose that we have a “Rally for Humility.” We can do it at Commons one night, and we can even
ask the Commons staff to provide dessert. I would suggest they make a giant humble pie, so that everyone on
campus could take a big ol’ bite.

Kevin Cook ’09 is a Biology and Political Science major from Syracuse, N.Y. Contact him at kecook@davidson.edu.

Obama’s elitism threatens his success

At the moment, Sen. Barack Obama has a strong claim to the Democratic presidential nomination—more delegates support him than Sen.
Clinton. He leads her in the popular vote and has won more states. Add to these quantifiable claims Sen. Obama’s
assumption of what has become the customary attitude of Democratic presidential nominees: elitism. At a fundraiser in San Francisco, Sen.
Obama offered this explanation for his failure to appeal to Pennsylvania Democrats: “You go into some of these small towns
in Pennsylvania, and like a lot of small towns in the Midwest, the jobs have been gone now for 25
years and nothing’s replaced them. And it’s not surprising that they get bitter, they cling to guns or religion or
antipathy to people who aren’t like them or anti-immigrant sentiment or anti-trade sentiment as a way to explain their frustrations.”
According to Sen. Obama, the responsibility for his failure to appeal to the rural and working classes lies not with
him but with the voters. He implies that if these voters were not so bitter or preoccupied with guns, religion,
and xenophobia, they would support his candidacy. Thus, he inverts the rightful roles of the voter and the candidate in
a democracy. Furthermore, Sen. Obama refuses to entertain the idea that thoughtful individuals could be cultural conservatives. Instead, Sen. Obama
diagnoses cultural conservatism as a psychological byproduct of their poor economic condition. By his logic, if Pennsylvania Democrats had a
better economic lot, their religious faith or their support of the right to bear arms would evaporate. Just as Karl
Marx disdained religion, Sen. Obama regards cultural conservatism as an “opiate of the masses.” Perhaps if they were not so
intoxicated, Pennsylvania Democrats would support him. Worse than culturally conservative, according to Sen. Obama, Pennsylvania Democrats are hateful. They hate
not only immigrants but simply those who are not like they are.

Has Sen. Obama considered the possibility that Pennsylvanians simply prefer Sen. Clinton over him? If he has, “antipathy to people
who aren’t like them” would seem to him a better explanation of his unpopularity among rural and working-class Pennsylvanians. Not
surprisingly, Sens. Clinton and McCain have excoriated Sen. Obama for his condescension. After the McCain campaign cited this comment as
evidence of an inability to relate to the American people, Sen. Obama cited Sen. McCain’s reticence to use government to
stimulate the economy as evidence of an inability to relate to the American people. Evidently, to Sen. Obama, relating to
the American people means not sharing their cultural values but ensuring their economic welfare. Indeed, Sen. Obama would seemingly contend
that, by ensuring the economic welfare of rural and working-class Americans, he would diminish their bitterness and synonymous cultural conservatism.
Maybe they would better receive him when he runs for reelection. According to Sen. Obama, the responsibility for his failure
to appeal to the rural and working classes lies not with him but with the voters. Sen. Obama has run
on his ability to end the partisanship that characterizes Washington, D.C. and to unite the country. When has demeaning the
cultural convictions held by much of the electorate unified the country? Barack Obama’s inability to consolidate support for his candidacy
lies not in convincing the American people of his merits. On the contrary, the obviously intelligent Obama has offered an
inspiring vision for America’s future with grand oratory. To many who do not support Sen. Obama, he seems too grand,
too ethereal, too elite. Perhaps Barack Obama agrees.

Zach Bennett ’11 is a Political Science major from Lancaster, Pa. Contact him at zabennett@davidson.edu.
