7 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Coors introduces
new Sippy cans for
Sloppy drunks

Bank forecloses
on treehouse
SEE PAGE 2

THE YOWL

Your Davidson Honor Section

Editors:
Dan Killian
Alex Hoyt

Writer/Ideas:
Alex Greening

Note: The Yowl! is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

[KILLIAN, COME UP WITH ISSUE TITLE. -HOYT] WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2008

“We landed on the moon?”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“Break! The Urban Funk Spectacular” Dance Crew Battles Mrs. Thompson's Lower School Physical Education Class

Mrs. Thompson and her students train for Tuesday’s battle.

After their sellout performance in the Duke Family Performance Hall, Break! the Urban Funk Spectacular’s crew decided to take their skills to what they determined was the next natural level of progression.

Crew leader Teddy “Grizzlee-Bear” Clemmins fully supported his group’s decision to accept the challenge with the opportunity to reach a new level of competition.

“Ya know we were ready to up it, and they don’t know us. We break with the hardest of ‘em.”

After an English unit focusing on different types of communication, Mrs. Thompson’s class practiced letter writing. When she recommended they write to a local organization, they selected Break based on the similarities between both elementary groups.

After a three-day letter writing campaign, Break received the letter.

“We get letters like this all the time, but this one looked different. There was a serious tone to it, ya know, like they meant business.”

But this time around, Break was broke. Unaware that Mrs. Thompson had been using the 30-minute twice weekly period set aside for physical activity to listen to KidzBop and move about the room with her children, Break was dumbfounded.

“Everything they did was so natural and they’re much lower to the ground so it wasn’t really fair,” Teddy complained.

One of numerous taunting letters “Break” received.

“They really broke it down to “Baby Beluga” and a few other Raffi numbers. On the breakdance circuit, we usually don’t have to deal with that kind of material.”

Mrs. Thompson’s class, emboldened by their success, is now devoting both homeroom and recess to their hip-hop “skillz” and smack-talking abilities.

Fraddyshack: Finally a Frat Party for People Who Like to Dress Fratty

Gaining nearly as much nationwide attention as the Davidson Trust initiative, this past weekend’s court party, “FraddyShack,” took further steps in setting Davidson apart from its competitor institutions.

Students were fascinated by the opportunity to try out a “preppy look” typically eschewed by campus fashion trends.

Considering Davidson’s homogenous inner-city — urban dress style, the “Fraddyshack” party provided a creative outlet for the student body to explore new options in style. For the first time on campus, students were able to put on polos, oxfords and as one student noted, “those pants with the embroidered seahorses and such.”

Tammy Stevens ’10 was overjoyed when she realized the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity that lay before her.

“I’m totally going to the Goodwill store to pick up some of those Nantucket red shorts and Rainbow sandals that you always hear about preppy southern schools having. And if I can find one of those shirts with the giant horses, tonight, I’m putting my collar up.”

Brice Alkers ’09 instantly accepted the party invitation from his Blackberry’s Facebook application.

“It’s pretty much the only time during the year when you can wear seersucker shorts without looking like a complete misfit on this campus. I was getting tired of all the sloppy jerseys, camo and lack of pearls that define this place.”

There is a run-off between next week’s two pioneering party ideas, “Drinkin’ Beers” and “Sweaty People in a Giant Room!”

The Office of Admissions credits “FraddyShack” with a 14% increase in applications since Saturday’s party.

Obamarama Trumps Madonnarama

Turner House co-hosted the court party of a lifetime Friday night, according to sophomores Ginny Ferrel and Brenda Fontaine.

The Obama Campaign and Obama’s improvisation and two McCain aides, the night was a great need for change; acknowledged our obligation to serve, and really broke