4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

RLO News rectifies housing issue for Class of 2012

By CURTIS CURRAN
Staff Writer

Typically, people associate the month of March with events like the NCAA men’s basketball tournament, St. Patrick's Day, and the fateful day when Brutus stabbed Caesar. It would not be March at Davidson without the incessant hum of housing talk that invariably involves choosing a roommate, deciding between on or off-campus, and up the hill or sophomore apartments. While students believe that they bear the brunt of housing woes, the Residence Life Office works diligently behind the scenes all year to ensure that students will be accommodated according to their requests.

This year, RLO has wrestled aggressively with the issue of freshman housing and where the incoming Class of 2012 will be situated on campus. Currently, freshmen reside in Richardson, Belk, Little, and Watts, which accommodate 454 students. Patty Perillo, Associate Dean of Students, recognized that the current system would not accommodate the incoming freshman class of 470 students, forcing her to reexamine the setup.

“I think it is important for students to understand that I care deeply about everyone’s living situation and, as a result, have a responsibility to make sure that adequate housing is provided for all members of the Davidson community, including first-year students,” Perillo said.

A variety of hypothetical situations were examined, all of which had positive and negative aspects. Included among these options was intermingling upperclassmen and underclassmen in Cannon and Sentelle Dormitories, an idea that was ultimately vetoed. “This would definitely change the intimacy of the cohort experience that first-years and hall counselors get by living together in one building,” Perillo said.

RLO also looked at moving freshmen into the buildings known as sophomore apartments. This option didn’t work because it did not provide enough beds, due in part to the fact that there are single rooms in sophomore apartments and freshmen are not permitted to have singles. Ultimately, it was decided that Cannon Dormitory will be adjusted to a first-year dorm only and that Little Dormitory, a traditionally first-year dorm, will be for upperclassmen next year. This decision came from the fact that Cannon has 94 beds on the first through fourth floors, while Little has only 76 throughout the building.

Perillo stressed the importance of first-year living situations for freshmen in the Davidson experience in explaining her decision. “It is important for students to understand that two particular variables - the commitment to maintaining lounges and not using them as student rooms and the renovations of Richardson and Watts this summer - made RLO realize that we were at least 16 beds short for first-year students. We had to find more beds!” Perillo said.

BERNETHY AWARDS: ROUND 2 APPLICATIONS DUE 3/28/08

Funds from the George L. Abernethy Endowment will be available to support worthy initiatives by current first-year, sophomore, or junior students. [It is also possible to fund a senior who expects to complete all research work prior to graduation.] Individual awards fall into one of the following categories:
1. Independent student research, either in the US or abroad.
2. Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year or the summer.
3. Collaborative research by students and faculty. The student must have a clearly defined independent role in the research.

At the request of the donor, applications are limited to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences. For your information, last year the Abernethy Endowment supported projects with grants up to $3,300; the average award was about $1,700. This is the second round of Abernethy funding for 2007-08, during which a limited number of additional awards may be made. Application forms are available in the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283). Completed application forms are due back in this office before 5:00 pm on Friday, March 28, 2008. The announcement of awards will occur on or before April 21, 2008.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19, 2008

SGA inducts

By ELLEN VISER
Staff Writer

New officers elected for next year were inducted at last week’s SGA meeting. Chris Burton ’08, outgoing SGA president, began the meeting by swearing in Davis Greene ’09, new SGA president. Greene then inducted Ali Karami-Ruiz ’09, new SGA vice president, and the new class senators.

Burton expressed his satisfaction with his term and pride in the SGA’s accomplishments, especially the Real Talk Project and the trip to Jena, La. “The Real Talk Project has gotten the community to truly discuss issues that have always been there,” Burton said. HeAlso lauded the project for bringing big topics, such as Davidson’s environmental impact, to students’ attention. “We did a good job focusing the SGA towards affecting the culture at Davidson,” Burton said. “It wasn’t just about changing policy, but about building a partnership with the administration for a real effect.” Burton also stressed his confidence in Greene as the new president. For the past year, Greene has served as SGA vice president, and Burton and Greene have much experience with and respect for one another. “Davis is great at bringing folks together. He was a very strong, very active vice president,” Burton said. “We really worked as a team.”

Greene also spoke highly of Burton. “I have large shoes to fill,” Greene said. “People identified with Chris very well, and he was always an advocate for students rather than for himself.” Looking back at the past year, Greene anticipates an eventful coming term. The new officers seek to increase campus communication so students feel informed on the goings-on within SGA. “It is my hope that SGA can continue to expand its visibility on campus. I want to make SGA as transparent as possible,” Greene said.

Blake Poole ’08, outgoing Treasurer, and Kimberly Bunting ’10, outgoing Chancellor, also spoke of their experiences with SGA and urged the new members to represent the students fairly and passionately. “SGA should never forget its power and what it’s supposed to do, and that is to represent the students,” Poole said. He encouraged new representatives to fight for the students even if doing so is unpopular with the faculty. Bunting also stressed the power of the SGA. “As a freshman you see Davidson traditions, but from SGA I’ve learned those traditions can change,” she said. She thinks the SGA is in a unique position to fulfill needs in the Davidson community and create change, even within established school traditions.

Senators also discussed their personal responsibilities, obligations to the student body, and goals for the year. The group hopes to increase contact with college trustees, enhance publicity for the College, and address the alcohol policy. More than anything, SGA wants to represent the students well. “I don’t want to be a president who overly asserts my personal opinions,” Greene said. “I do have strong feelings about changes that I would like to see at Davidson, but I know that I can’t let these interests prevent me from effectively addressing the needs of students.”

Courbet, from page 3

Known as the founder of the realist movement, which is the forefather of impressionism, Chu explained that Courbet held three major principles throughout his life that manifest themselves in both his actions and his art. The first states that artists “should paint the life of their own time and place.” The second stated that “artists have a social and political responsibility,” a duty Courbet clearly fulfilled in the Commune in Paris. Courbet’s last belief was that “art cannot be taught,” discrediting art taught academically in the classroom.

Courbet’s work covers a wide range of genres, including nudes, portraits, and landscapes, which has added depth to his recent exhibits in France in lieu of the 130th anniversary of Courbet’s death. However, Chu focused her lecture on the self-portraits that have made Courbet’s work so famous. Courbet interpreted his series of adulthood self-portraits as an autobiographical series. “Courbet perceived his early self-portraits as a coherent series that chronicled his life to date,” Chu said.

Chu argued that Courbet’s self-portraits did not merit the title of an autobiography, given the normally retrospective nature of such works and how he analyzed his art as such in the midst of its creation. “The self-portraits don’t represent specific episodes of life, but fictional situations,” Chu said, citing Courbet’s piece “Wounded Man” and that Courbet was never actually physically wounded up to this point in his life. However, these paintings did play an important role in Courbet’s own perception of his evolution from young adulthood to manhood and the inherent ideological conflicts between two stages: love and hate, idealism and realism, liberalism and conservatism.

His documentation of these internal clashes shows the “emotional highs and lows of adulthood,” Chu said. Courbet referred to his self-portraits as “Bildungsroman,” which is a German compound of the words novel and education. This literary genre, popular during Courbet’s life, chronicles the emotional and intellectual evolution of a man or woman. The evolution of one’s character that is a hallmark of the Bildungsroman genre has a large presence in Courbet’s work.