12 Wildcats extend win streak to three

Kris HENDERSHOT
Staff Writer

The Davidson field hockey team extended their winning streak to three games in a row with two big wins at
home this past week. The Wildcats beat the Appalachian State Mountaineers 5-1 at home last Wednesday night in a non-conference
game. Then on last Saturday’s Senior Day, Davidson won 2-1 against the Radford Highlanders in a huge conference game.

The Wildcats gained revenge in this game as they beat the Mountaineers 5-1 after losing to them previously this season
3-2 in penalty strokes. Midfielder Britti Himelfarb ’09 was the star of the game with two huge goals and an
assist. The Davidson offensive attack was very impressive and consistent as they accumulated 19 shots. The defense was also stellar,
only allowing one goal and five shots. The game clearly exhibited an intense rivalry as over 350 fans were present.

Himelfarb scored the first goal of the game on an impressive shot over the goalie. Her second goal came off
of a skillful assist from midfielder Kathelijn van der Ven ’12. Midfielder Clare Perry ’11 scored a goal late in
the game off of Himelfarb’s fifth assist of the season. It was Perry’s fourth goal of the season, which ties
her for third place on the team with van der Ven. Defender Tyler Kirkland ’09 scored a goal early in
the game off of a rebound. It was her fifth goal of the season, putting her in second for the
most goals on the team. Kirkland’s strong shooting percentage has earned her five goals on only seven shots. Van der
Ven also is second on the team in points with 13. She is very impressive offensively with a first, second,
or third place ranking on the team in six categories.

Davidson had nine shots on goal while the opponent only had two. The Wildcats also had four penalty corners to
the Mountaineers’ three. Kirkland’s impressive ability on corners for Davidson has set up many scoring opportunities.

The last conference game of the year occurred at home against Radford on Saturday. The Wildcats won in a tense
game 2-1. Davidson dominated time of possession and the play was often in Radford’s defensive half. The game was a
defensive battle as the Wildcats had eight shots and the Highlanders had only five. Himelfarb had another impressive game with
both of Davidson’s goals. The first half was scoreless until the last minute before halftime when Himelfarb scored off of
a deflection. Radford tied the game shortly after halftime, but Himelfarb responded just minutes later with her second goal of
the game. It gave her the team lead in goals with seven. It was her second game-winning goal of the
year as well. Van der Ven, with two game-winners of her own this year, assisted Himelfarb. It was van der
Ven’s sixth assist of the season, giving her the team lead.

Senior goaltender Brittany Rollek put up a stellar performance with three saves and only one goal. The Wildcat defense was
dynamic and after the Wildcats took the lead, they minimized Radford’s possessions and did not allow any comeback chances for
the visiting Highlanders. Forward Hannah English ’12, van der Ven, and Himelfarb each recorded two shots. Kirkland and midfielder Liz
Luckey ’10 both had one shot. Both teams had four shots on goal and four penalty corners.

The Wildcats' last game this season is Sunday at Chapel Hill against the University of North Carolina, who is ranked
fifth in the nation. Davidson has an overall record of 6-12 and is now 1-5 in the conference. The team
is most impressive at home with a record of 6-3.

Sarah Addison ’09 and the class of 2009 celebrated Senior Day with a 2-1 victory over Radford Saturday.

’Cats secure first-round home game in SoCon Tourney

JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

The ’Cats wrapped up last week’s matchups with one win and one loss. As the conference tournament arrives next week,
the team has secured home-field advantage in the first round. The victory in the split decisions came last Thursday evening
against Elon. While Elon has struggled through much of its conference schedule, the Phoenix held even withThe Wildcats for much
of the game. Only in the last ten minutes was Davidson able to clinch the W. Starting in goal for
the sixth time this season, Jessie Baxa ’12 posted the Wildcats’ sixth shutout of the season. In a game that
featured plenty of back-and-forth action, Baxa faced nine shots from the Elon offense, making four saves. On the offensive front,
Davidson started the game slowly, managing no shots on goal in the opening half. As the second half opened, the
'Cats stepped up the attacks, but Elon responded likewise, and Davidson only led the shot total 6-5 in the second
half. The 'Cats only led Elon in corners 4-3 throughout the game, but it would only take one to score
the game-winning goal. In the 81st minute, Melanee Smith ’09 stepped to the flag and launched a beauty into the
box. Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10 headed the ball at the keeper, and off the rebound, Tracy McCausland ’09 ricocheted a shot
into the back of the net. It was McCausland’s third goal of the season. Even more notable, it was her
third game-winning goal of the season. Time and again, she’s come through in the clutch. Bye-Nagel and Smith both tallied
assists, with Smith earning her team-high seventh of the season. But the excitement would be short-lived. Reversing Davidson’s exciting win,
UNC-Greensboro scored a game-clinching goal in the last minute. It was a heartbreaking loss, worsened by the Spartans’ current position
atop the SoCon. With Baxa in goal again, the 'Cats held steady with their conference rivals in both shots and
saves. Against eight shot attempts, Baxa grabbed five saves. The Davidson offense also managed eight shots, but on corner kicks,
Greensboro clearly dominated. The undefeated conference leaders had eight opportunities to the Wildcats’ mere one. As the offensive pressure mounted
the whole game, the Davidson defense got more physical than their adversaries. The 'Cats doubled Greensboro’s foul tally, 10-5. Despite
the intensity, the game dragged on scoreless through the first 89 minutes of play. With only a few seconds left
ticking on the clock, Greensboro ripped a shot toward the upper 90 that eluded Baxa’s grasp. Again, the lack of
consistent opportunities for the offense contributed to a low-scoring performance for the 'Cats. The fullbacks were on the defensive for
most of the game, preventing any real rhythm for the team.

Player of the Week Sarabeth Peele ‘11

Cautious offense has become a pattern for the Wildcats this season, and with only a few days before round one
of the conference tournament on Nov. 2, the issue must be addressed quickly. In the meantime, the 'Cats still have
one definite opponent ahead. This Thursday, they will make the trek to Statesboro, GA, to take on the Georgia Southern
Eagles. The outlook for the game is hopeful, as Southern has only posted two wins in the SoCon. Regardless of
the game’s result, the 'Cats will earn a top-four seed in the conference tourney and home-field advantage. At 7-3 in
the SoCon, they sit just ahead of Furman at 6-4. If Davidson were to lose and Furman win, the 'Cats
would still hold the tiebreaker because the 'Cats defeated the Paladins earlier this season. But with kinks still left to
work out, Davidson cannot afford to lay off this Thursday. A win might even elevate the team to the third
seed, over Samford. For this Sunday’s first-round game at Alumni Stadium, the 'Cats can expect one of the weaker teams
in the conference, but they cannot expect an easy win. “Even though our first-round game will probably be played against
a team we’ve already beaten, it doesn’t matter,” Smith said. “Anything can happen on any given day. Especially with soccer,
anyone can beat anybody.”

Delgehausen swims to 1000 freestyle win in near-record time

SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS

Jessica Delgehausen ‘11 swam the second fastest 1000 freestyle time in Davidson history, 10:26.85 on her way to winning the
event in Saturday's victory over College of Charleston. The sophomore outside hitter led the 'Cats with 15 kills in Saturday’s
3-1 win at Furman and then proceeded to record a double-double (10 kills, 10 digs) in Sunday’s loss at Wofford.
Peele leads the team with 306 kills on the season.
