THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2008 13

AFSC exhibit promotes blind pacifism

A fair look at Obama’s

By ZACH BENNETT
Guest Writer

Last week, Just Peace sought to open Davidson College’s eyes to the human and economic costs of the War in
Iraq by reprising the American Friends Service Committee’s (AFSC) Eyes Wide Open exhibit, which previously appeared at Davidson in the
spring of 2007. Ultimately, the exhibit did more to reveal the absurdity of the pacifism espoused by the AFSC than
to remind us of the costs of war.

As a part of the exhibit, banners flew outside of the Union describing implicitly better ways the federal government could
spend the money currently being spent in Iraq. Alternatives ranged from providing 423,529 children with healthcare, to supporting 12,478 elementary
school teachers, to giving homes to 6,482 families. With a PowerPoint presentation designed by the AFSC, Just Peace co-Presidents Ross
White and Liz Cooper elaborated on the costs of war on October 29th in the Sprinkle Room. According to the
presentation, the “military industrial complex” wages wars for the profit of the privileged few by “manipulating our fears,” while robbing
Americans of jobs and social welfare benefits.

Neither the presentation nor the exhibit itself substantially addressed the national security implications of the war. No one would deny
the importance of understanding the war’s costs. Yet, no one argued for invading Iraq on the grounds that it would
improve Americans’ material or physical welfare. The Eyes Wide Open exhibit, rather than criticizing the war on its own merits,
distracts us from the war’s relevant and arguable national security implications. The AFSC’s attack on the war amounted to a
populist diatribe, which appealed to people’s selfish desire for government handouts. Yet, we ought not be surprised that an organization
blindly committed to pacifism declined to debate the war in terms of national security. Perhaps, the AFSC understood that, in
the eyes of any reasonable person, it would lose such a debate.

In the presentation, the AFSC discounted the danger posed by Islamic extremism and identified the “military industrial complex” as the
“real threat” to America. In fact, the AFSC, according to its website, maintains that the United States has no enemies.
If we have no enemies, then a powerful military seems not only unnecessary but unduly antagonistic. In a world with
no enemies, war is the source of all problems. This logic is obvious in the AFSC’s interpretation of Iraqi history.
The AFSC’s PowerPoint presentation left the impression that, prior to the invasion, Iraq was a peaceful oasis. The AFSC showed
photos of smiling children before the war and crying children after the war to demonstrate that the war has wrought
nothing but “death and destruction.” If this were an accurate depiction, the AFSC’s professed desire to “return Iraq to the
way it was before the war and before the sanctions,” would be reasonable.

Of course, the AFSC’s depiction of Iraq before the war is wildly misleading. Before the war and the sanctions, Saddam
Hussein brutally oppressed his people. Thousands were executed and tortured; tens of thousands underwent chemical weapons attacks. Is this really
the Iraq to which the AFSC would like to return? Anyone who asserts that there is “goodness and truth in
each individual,” as the AFSC does on its website, would have to ignore Saddam Hussein’s human rights abuses to avoid
sounding ridiculous. That’s exactly what the AFSC did. The AFSC further ignored reality in claiming in its literature “that the
presence of U.S. troops is a destabilizing force in the region and contributes to the increasing loss of life.” Given
the decrease in violence that accompanied the addition of American troops to Iraq, this claim is demonstrably false.

The foreign policy prescriptions of an organization like the AFSC that chooses to ignore reality in order to maintain its
faith in the “truth and goodness of each individual” and corresponding denial that America has enemies in the world deserve
little credibility. At the October 29th presentation, Debra Dillard of the AFSC described her organization as “a values-based organization.” Perhaps,
if the AFSC were a “reality-based organization,” it could earn some credibility. Given the exhibit’s propagandistic character, it’s disappointing that
Just Peace, which, according to co-President Ross White “is not pushing a political agenda” and merely wants “to present the
facts and allow the student body to gather what they can,” would bring back this exhibit after having sponsored it
in 2007. Indeed, it raises questions about Just Peace’s pretension of objectivity.

Zach Bennett ’11 is a political science major from Lancaster, Pa. Contact him at zabennett@davidson.edu.

Does money make us happy in the end?

By ALISSA IREI
Guest Writer

I am not a student of economics. I don’t fully understand the rumblings in the stock market that have ominously
shaken our parents’ portfolios, or the mortgage crisis that has shocked the world, or why it will now be harder
for us to finance our first homes and cars. I am, however, a student of the liberal arts academy, where
we hallow the question. As such, I have been trying to navigate this dark place on the map of my
understanding—approximately where Wall Street should be. And I can’t help asking one more question. Is there more to this moment
in history—a moment our Dr. Ken Menkhaus says could be as pivotal in the collective experience as 9/11—than numbers? What
does it mean for us college students, soon to step gingerly into the abyss?

Four years ago fate smiled on me when I became one of hundreds of cocky high school seniors to quake
under the stern instruction of Dr. Maria Holland. No teacher prepared us better for college, and none prepared us better
for life. One day she glared at us from behind her desk. “Your generation will need to find a motivation
that IS. NOT. MONEY,” she warned. Our parents’ generation largely bought into the myth of the shiny and the material,
she continued, but the myth would lose its luster. Several of my classmates argued vigorously, saying there can always be
more. You can simply never have enough. I wonder if they feel the same today.

Maybe news coverage of the financial crisis has reflected the worst of media hysteria. Maybe things will only get better.
Then again, maybe not. In the face of such uncertainty, now is the time to evaluate some of the fundamental
assumptions on which we plan to build our lives. What do we value? What do we believe? I don’t think
Davidson ushers through its halls hordes of slaves to the dollar. I do think it attracts earnest, hardworking people who
like structure and tangible goals. And I can remember a time—like a few months ago—when there was plenty to go
around, when a Davidson graduate could both positively impact the world and afford to shop organic. But what if...we can
no longer pretend that plenty is a given. We all face the possibility that we'll have to work much harder
than our parents did, to achieve fewer material comforts. Last semester Dr. Randy Nelson told our class that every spring
several panicked seniors arrive in his office saying, “I have no idea who I am, or what I’m doing.” “We,”
he said, “are doing you all a disservice if we haven’t somehow helped you arrive at that realization.” It’s okay
if we don’t know who we are or what we’re doing today. We have time. It’s crucial though that we
keep checking our guts, our souls, our gods, whatever moves us, to ask—am I living a life that is meaningful
to me? Because even if you win the rat race, you are still a rat.

Last week NPR’s Dan Gediman came to our campus to discuss his work as the producer for the “This I
Believe” series, started in the 1950s under Edward Murrow. The series gives luminaries and ordinary people the opportunity to publicly
declare the guiding principles of their lives. In his lecture Gediman reflected on the many people his age who have
been living flush on vaporous credit. They saw the boat; they bought the boat. Today, Gediman said, a lot of
them have lost the boat. And they are just now realizing it never really made them happy. Maybe this crisis
can be a blessing, if it prompts us to ask ourselves the important questions many of our parents are just
now being forced to answer. Does the boat make me happy? What am I willing to sacrifice for it? Spending
time with my family? Knowing my neighbors? Living a thoughtful life? Boats are fine. They’re fun. But the sum of
a life was never the balance of a bank account. The sooner we start to determine how we will measure
our own lives, the better off we'll be. This ultimately leads us to the question Gediman poses—“What do you believe?”
That question is as important as any we will ever ask as students of the liberal arts. Ask it of
yourself continually. Ask it of each other. Then maybe we won’t meet thirty years hence, living lives that still echo
those words from Randy Nelson’s office. “Who am I, and what am I doing here?”

Alissa Irei ’09 is a political science major from Scottsdale, Ariz. Contact her at alirei@davidson.edu.

---

**Judicial Philosophy**
By Bobby Urso, Guest Writer

In last week’s edition of the Davidsonian, Zach Bennett argued that Sen. Obama’s view of the Supreme Court was unconstitutional.
Although it was structured and written well, the article assumed too much, and led readers down a slippery slope of
unsound deductions. In the argument, Mr. Bennett uses clever semantics to paint Sen. Obama as a president who would only
appoint partisan judges to the Supreme Court in order to further social change. Although these could be Sen. Obama’s true
views, we cannot deduce this from the facts that Mr. Bennett presents.

Mr. Bennett defines “fairness” as “keeping with the Constitution.” He then writes, “the judiciary will uphold fairness as long as
it impartially interprets the law.” Lastly, Mr. Bennett states that some laws are “imperfect,” and “ought to be changed.” I
certainly believe this is true, and anyone who supports the U.S. justice system would have to agree with all three
of these presumptions also. The problem is that Mr. Bennett portrays Sen. Obama as someone who doesn’t believe “fairness” is
“in keeping with the Constitution.” The deduction that Sen. Obama wants “real world folks” to be favored in the interpretation
of laws is unsubstantiated.

First, let's look at the statements that Mr. Bennett presents. Mr. Bennett’s main disagreement with Sen. Obama is over whether
Supreme Court justices should “have a sense of what real world folks are going through.” Sen. Obama seems to define
“real world folks” as those who can barely make ends meet because he clarifies this remark, explaining that he speaks
of “a woman...trying to raise a family...support her family.” Finally, Sen. Obama, when talking about this woman, says if she
is being treated “unfairly, then the court has to stand up if nobody else will.” The substantial mistake Mr. Bennett
makes in his argument is assuming that when Sen. Obama says “unfairly,” he means legally but unfairly. Mr. Bennett himself
states that fairness was “in keeping with the Constitution.” My question is, might Sen. Obama hold the same view? If
this woman is being treated “unfairly,” and we assume Mr. Bennett and Sen. Obama agree that fairness is upheld in
the Constitution, then the Supreme Court should legitimately support her case. Again, Mr. Bennett automatically assumes that Sen. Obama differentiates
between fairness and the law. In fact, one could make the argument that Sen. Obama simply wants a judge that
realizes that “real world people” are subjugated to partial interpretations of the law. Therefore maybe Sen. Obama is fighting for
impartial interpretation of laws for the middle class. I am neither advocating nor arguing that Sen. Obama holds this belief,
I am simply suggesting that these interpretations are also possible. In fact, “have a sense of what real world folks
are going through” is a very broad phrase that could mean just about anything. The fact of the matter is
that Mr. Bennett construes it as he wishes in order to prove Sen. Obama’s beliefs are unconstitutional. Therefore, the deduction
from Sen. Obama’s statement that he wants “real world folks” to be favored in the interpretation of laws is unsubstantiated.

But, as Mr. Bennett writes, some “laws are imperfect and fail to ensure fairness.” I understand this perspective; for example,
the 14th Amendment did not become effective until 100 years after its creation. And because our Constitution assigns Congress, not
the Supreme Court, the responsibility of amending flawed laws, I agree with Mr. Bennett that the courts are not “a
vehicle for social change.” The real question is whether or not Sen. Obama agrees with us on this matter. Based
on the quotes Mr. Bennett presents, I believe it is impossible to make that conclusion. The real issue here is
that partisan bias can morph statements into whatever a person sees fit. Judging by the persuasive power Mr. Bennett demonstrates
in his article, I’m sure he could easily twist John McCain’s statements from the last debate to make him appear
unconstitutional as well, but that is not what journalism is about. Journalism is not jumping to conclusions based on sparse
evidence. Journalism is getting a candidate to state their opinion, not stating it for them. Journalism is exposing the truth,
not creating it.

Bobby Urso ’11 is a political science major from Beverly Hills, Mich. Contact him at bourso@davidson.edu.
