4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2008

Meacham gives insight into the ‘yes we can’ man

ANDREW EVANS
Staff Writer

Jon Meacham, editor of Newsweek, spoke to a full crowd in the Duke Family Performance Hall on Monday. Many community members as well as students attended the talk by the prolific journalist, who was autographing copies of his newest book, “American Lion: Andrew Jackson in the White House,” immediately after his presentation.

Meacham, who was born in Chattanooga, TN and graduated from the University of the South in Sewanee, TN, peppered his talk with jokes and humorous anecdotes that kept the atmosphere light.

Nick Carney ’11 remarked how “very well read” Meacham is, referring to the many references to both modern and ancient history as well as many important literary works that Meacham made throughout the evening.

Davis Greene ’09, SGA President, remarked that Meacham personified the great benefits of a liberal arts education.

After a few introductory remarks, Meacham opened with a confession: he had “grave doubts about the country’s willingness” to elect a black president. He complimented McCain’s willingness to hold the forces of prejudice at bay for the most part during this election, the same forces that derailed his campaign in 2000. Meacham then delved into some specific influences on Obama’s life.

The first influence he addressed was Obama’s father. Meacham said that Obama only met his father once, but Obama heard stories about his father’s influence in Kenya and how great a man he was. Obama, while not truly knowing his father, felt that he had this “ghostly image” of his father as a great standard to whom Barack Jr. had to live up.

Jon Meacham, editor of Newsweek, entertained guests in the Duke Family Performance Hall last Monday, sharing personal political insights on president-elect Barack Obama as well as the current Bush administration.

But because his father was never around, Obama also became very self-reliant.

Obama’s stepfather is often ignored when people recount his life, but he taught Obama how to box, be tough and always hit back, skills that would serve him well in the rough world of politics.

Meacham went on to say that the Democrats’ great fear coming into 2008 was that they would be “swiftboated” again, and so they instinctively turned to a candidate known to be tough.

That candidate was Hillary Clinton, but Meacham said that she was “ambivalent” about her dedication toward her campaign—at least until things started to get exciting between the Iowa and New Hampshire primaries. But Obama was plenty tough for the job, an attribute from his childhood.

Meacham remarked that he thinks the U.S. is a center-right country, and Obama ran a centrist campaign, allowing him to garner the amount of the popular vote that he did. During his campaign, in Meacham’s view, Obama “brilliantly” chose the caucus states.

But even more important was that Obama managed “to see that the country is becoming more fluid.” Because of his own fluid upbringing, Obama was able, according to Meacham, to reflect and make the emotions of the present time, a characteristic that is true of all great leaders.

Meacham gave some statistics concerning Obama’s gains in certain population groups relative to John Kerry’s loss in 2004. The most astonishing statistic was Obama’s huge gain in the youth age group from 2004—youth being defined as 18-24 years old.

A recurring theme in his talk, especially in the question and answer session, was the role of religion in politics. Meacham contended that religion plays a crucial and indispensable role in American democracy.

Meacham said that the more we talk about something as polarizing as religion, the less dangerous it becomes. He said that Obama was able to gain some more votes from the religious community as opposed to 2004 because of his willingness to talk about his faith.

Meacham concluded his prepared remarks by discussing Obama’s sense of his own personal narrative. Obama has been a writer for much of his life, and so he is very self-aware. Throughout the campaign, Obama emphasized his personal narrative as a reflection of American values.

Scott Buckhout ’07, who worked for the Obama campaign this year, said that this was a perceptive insight by Meacham. He said that the campaign’s goal was to cultivate his character as opposed to making this a campaign based solely on issues. Kerry ran an issues-based campaign in 2004, Buckhout said, and he lost. Obama did not replicate this failed strategy.

A few audience members had the opportunity to ask questions directly to Meacham after his prepared remarks. The questions’ topics ranged from religion to the Republican Party to the role of the South in future elections.