| lly
DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2008

Trash at Martin Court apartment F after parties has sparked an increase in police on Martin Court.

@ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

VOLUME 99, NUMBER 17

More police at senior apartments

By SUZIE ECKL AND JULIA EDWARDS
Editor-in-Chief and Staff Writer.

Students encountered the effects of the newly reformed Martin Court carding policy last weekend.

Under the reforms, enforced by RLO and campus police, large bins will be available for the separate disposal of solo
cups, cans, and trash.

Additionally, one or two campus police officers will be present to monitor crowds, belligerent behavior, and underage drinking.

Dean Patty Perillo, director of RLO, notified the student body of these changes through an e-mail sent Friday afternoon. According
to the e-mail, the goal is to keep the area “safe, friendly and green.”

However, rumors regarding the increase in police presence have started to circulate, leaving many Davidson students angry and confused.

The most common rumor is that no students under 21 will be allowed at Martin Court at night. Perillo is
quick to dispel this rumor.

“If students are doing the right thing, regardless of their age, they won’t get in any trouble at all,” Perillo
said. “My experience over the past six months has taught me that the students who get docu-

See Carding, page 4

Jim Neal visits Young Democrats on campus

ANNA COON
Staff Writer

On Monday night, Jim Neal, a democratic candidate for the United States Senate, came to speak to the Davidson Young
Democrats about his platform and to answer questions. Neal spoke to a group of about 20 students, including six visiting
from UNC Charlotte to learn more about the candidate.

Jim Neal was born in Greensboro, N.C. He received his undergraduate degree from UNC Chapel Hill and an MBA from
the University of Chicago. In between UNC and U of C, Neal worked as a financial analyst for Goldman Sachs
and, following the completion of his MBA program, he worked as an investment banker. Most recently, Neal founded a financial
advisory firm, The Agema Group. He has also worked on national election campaigns and been involved in non-profit organizations. With
his small-town ideals and fiscal background, Neal is, as he stated from the beginning of his talk, “not a conventional
candidate,” and has “seen life out of a lot of different prisms.”

Neal began by explaining the reasons he is running for Senate and why he believes he is the best person
for the job. He explained that his core values are the “American values” of fair play, opportunity, and equality. All
of his work and ideas for the country stem from these three concepts. He believes that “we have been sending
too many people [to Washington] who come out of the political bubble,” and that it is time to challenge and
change the status quo. He sees this year as a year for change, identifying with the Democratic Party’s buzzword, and
considers himself capable of bringing a fresh voice to politics.

After this introduction, Neal opened up the floor for a question and answer period. It was then that

See Neal, page 3

Students simulate campaign

By CURTIS MOORE
News Editor

Scott Ripley, Fountain Walker, and Albus Dumbledore are not running for the U.S. Senate, but they are vying for a
shot at first place in this year’s Legislation Process class simulation election.

The stakes are high: the student group whose candidate wins gets an automatic A for 30 percent of their total
grade. The strategies and rhetoric of the respective campaigns splashed across campus are evidence of a strong competition playing out
on this particular campaign trail.

Dr. Patrick Sellers, Professor of Political Science and “The Legislative Process” class, confirmed the definite presence of political rivalry on
campus.

“Everyone is certainly working hard for their candidates, if the arguments in class are any indication,” Sellers said.

Sellers assigned the task of organizing a campaign for a hypothetical candidate to represent North Carolina in the U.S. Senate.
“By running their own campaigns, students can understand and appreciate the challenges and dilemmas of the presidential primaries and other
elections that are currently going on,” Sellers said.

The first step in the campaign process was creating a campaign plan for the candidates. The plan

See Election, page 2
