DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Can you find the Davidson student in this picture? Patty Herold ‘10 got a seat onstage during Obama’s stump speech.

From right, Anna Coon ‘10, Patty Herold ‘10, and Emily Cetrone ‘10 pose with Sen. Hillary Clinton on the campaign
trail.

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2008
VOLUME 99, NUMBER 14

Davidson students receive a taste of the primaries in S.C.
By ANNA COON
Staff Writer

Last Friday, the Young Democrats led 30 Davidson students to Columbia, S.C. to see Sen. Hillary Clinton speak at South
Carolina’s Democratic Party Election Eve Stump Meeting the day before the state’s primary. The low-key event, advertised as “Hot Dogs
and Politics,” provided Clinton with the opportunity to address a relatively small crowd of enthusiastic South Carolinian Democrats. Clinton was
also helped by the fact that her two competitors, Barack Obama and John Edwards, were forced to make last-minute cancellations.

Clinton emphasized the importance of getting out to vote the next day, and also used her time to explain some
of the basic plans she would implement if elected president. The senator stressed the importance of getting American troops out
of Iraq, a major issue in the upcoming election. Clinton’s plan would bring troops home within 60 days of her
inauguration and would continue to usher home one to two brigades per month thereafter. Clinton also plans to abandon President
Bush’s “No Child Left Behind” legislation and would instead implement countrywide pre-school for 4-year-olds in a push to start education
at an earlier age. Clinton reiterated several times that The Capital and the nation are long past due for major
administrative reforms—an underhanded criticism of the Bush administration. The mostly white and largely female audience responded to Clinton’s 30-minute speech
with enthusiasm.

Following Clinton’s speech, a small group of Davidson students took a tip from a woman waiting in line at the
Stump Meeting and decided to check out the Koger Center for the Arts next to the University of South Carolina
campus in downtown Columbia. The Koger Center was playing host to Sen. Barack Obama’s “Rally for Change.” Their early arrival
awarded the students with spots at the front of a line of people waiting to see Obama speak. USC students,
who had been volunteering for the Obama campaign all week on campus, shouted “Fired Up!,” upon their arrival, to which
the crowd responded with the common cheer at Obama rallies, “Ready to Go!”, that continued sporadically throughout the rest of
the evening.

“The energy was incredible as thousands of people voluntarily stood out in the freezing cold, cheering, laughing and signing petitions,”
Emily Cetrone ’10 said. When the doors opened at 8:45 p.m., the group of Davidson students was thrilled to discover
that waiting for two hours in the cold had paid off when they saw their front row center seats for
the rally. During the two hours preceding Sen. Obama’s 10:45 p.m. scheduled speech, a local student gospel choirand teen violinist
entertained the crowd. At 10:45 p.m., Obama’s wife, Michelle, addressed the supporters and introduced her husband, who was greeted enthusiastically
by the largely African-American crowd. Like Clinton, Obama also emphasized the importance of change in the United States, explaining that
as a younger, hopeful, and optimistic politician, he offers the greatest potential for change out of all the Democratic candidates.
Obama spent the majority of his hour-long speech addressing prob-

See Primaries, page 2

Japan’s low crime rate proves problematic for visitors
By Idris EVANS
Guest Writer

On my second day in Japan, during the study abroad student orientation, I learned one of the first and most
important lessons that I was to learn in Tokyo—a simple message that unfortunately might need to be repeated here at
Davidson: Don’t “borrow” bikes. At Davidson, taking someone else’s bicycle and riding it around is a mere nuisance to the
owner (not to mention an Honor Code violation). In Tokyo, bicycle theft is taken more seriously.

Japan prides itself on the safety of its society. Elementary school students take long subway rides unaccompanied, people routinely carry
hundreds of thousands of yen (thousands of dollars) on their person, and there are vast warehouses of lost umbrellas waiting
for their owners to claim them. With such a low crime rate and a population averse to offending others, one
might wonder: “Why the warning?”

Tokyo’s safety isn’t so much a socially constructed phenomenon as it is a trend based on strict adherence to the
rule of law. In Tokyo, even from a distance, it’s easy to pick foreigners out from a crowd. One clear
way to tell is by observing people at a crosswalk. Even with no cars coming, Japanese will almost always stop
and wait until the little green man appears. An American might pause for a moment and then cross against the
signal, if he or she chooses to pause at all. The police usually excuse foreigners this transgression, but should you
borrow that old beat-up bike that’s been leaning on the bushes for a month, you’re in for a world of
trouble.

The relationship between Japanese society and crime is complicated. The crime rate for theft and assault is very low, yet
when these crimes do occur, they are often committed by non-Japanese. Unfortunately for foreigners living in Japan, the disproportionate number
of crimes committed by non-Japanese has led many Japanese authorities to assume the worst of foreigners; the police are always
on the lookout for foreigners committing crimes. This is where the bike warning comes in. If I, as a foreigner,
were to borrow that old, ownerless-looking bike, and try to ride it to school,

See Japan, page 10

On the inside...
News
Students and town leaders discuss future, page 3

Arts
Buy Valentine’s flowers for your sweetheart, page 5

Special Section
Tales from abroad, pages 7-10

Yowl
Monstars stuff Curry and crew, page 11

Perspectives
Is the Honor Code down and out?, page 12

Sports
Tennis teams grab wins, page 16
