THE DAVIDSONIAN

Students walking by Chambers early Halloween morning found themselves greeted by moonlit toilet paper and a sign, wishing all students
a “Happy Halloween!”

“Happy Halloween!”
Love, The Chambers Students

NEWS

PHOTOS OF THE WEEK
Enjoying ‘An Adult Evening’
Photos provided by The Feng-Shui Club
Nina Hawley '11 and Will James '11 acted in the student theater production “An Adult Evening with David Ives.”

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2008

Moscow university students experience Davidson
Katie Lovett
Staff Writer

Welcoming a group of six Russian exchange students to the Davidson College campus marks the continuation of the college’s exchange
program with the Moscow State Institute of International Relations (MGIMO). This year’s students, Vilena Yakovleva, Alisa Shtykina, Alena Danilova, Kira
Belyaeva, Anna Arsenyeva, and Anton Nazarov, are living on campus for six weeks and are enthusiastic about their opportunity to
experience a different type of college environment.

Yakovleva, Shtykina, and Nazarov (or “Tony”) are students in the Department of Journalism at MGIMO. Belyaeva and Arsenyeva are studying
public relations, while Danilova is majoring in political science. Yakovleva learned about Davidson from a friend, and after coordinating with
her university’s exchange program and local program organizer Suzanne Grzesczak, was excited to come to Davidson. She did it “for
the experience, not for academic credits,” Yakovleva said.

After they return to MGIMO, all six students will have to work very hard to catch up with tests and
assignments since they will have missed a large portion of their semester. “The first week we get back to school
is going to be horrible,” Yakovleva said. But all of the exchange students feel that the chance to study abroad
is a unique opportunity that has allowed them to learn and observe things that will change their perspectives once they
return to Russia.

“It’s really different from Russia because so many students live here on campus. I feel more at home,” Shtykina said.
Living on a campus as small as Davidson’s, where the walk from the dorm to Chambers takes less than five
minutes, is certainly a huge change from battling traffic jams in Moscow. Contrary to the layout of many American universities,
the main academic building of the Moscow State Institute of International Relations is located in the center of the city
with students’ dorms dispersed throughout the area. “Sometimes it would take me three hours to get from my dorm to
the other side of the city for classes,” Belyaeva said.

All six students are enrolled in Davidson classes that pertain to their individual interests, while also attending a special seminar
titled “U.S.A. 2008” each day. This class offers a better understanding of U.S. culture and intends to help the group
transition from the 4,000-student MGIMO to life at Davidson College. Yakovleva is taking Modern Spain, Music of the United States,
Trends in Theatre, and Oral Communications. “It’s really cool to be able to pick out classes you want to take,
and we all took classes that interest us,” she said. Arsenyeva’s schedule includes U.S. Foreign Policy, French, Mind and Emotion,
and Oral Communication. The group is interested in bringing back knowledge and experiences that they can contribute to their own
university. “We have international students from countries such as Korea, China, and Germany at our university, but they just study
Russian and we don’t see them a lot,” Yakovleva said.

This is certainly not true of the MGIMO University exchange group here at Davidson. Yakovleva, Shtykina, Danilova, Belyaeva, Arsenyeva, and
Nazarov have enjoyed being involved in on-campus activities and events. For instance, they...Manned the Russian table at the Family Weekend
International Festival last Saturday, sharing popular Russian food such as “olivye,” a chopped salad of potatoes, carrots, eggs, sausage, pickles,
and mayonnaise, Russian pancakes with jam and sour cream, and authentic Russian chocolates. The group also went to a party
at the BSC, which they described as “crazy!” and saw the theatre department’s production ‘Communicating Doors.’

Jim’s career-long track record of achieving successful results for his clients has earned him recognition throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named to the Best Lawyers in America publication consistently for the
past 23 years and was recently named as one of the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina.
As a former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the state
for his commitment to justice and his exceptional litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience, he has dedicated his
legal practice to helping people who have been injured by the negligent or criminal conduct of others. Jim and his
wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove and attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A member of the Lions Club, Jim
also serves on the Boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and has
coached youth football, basketball, and baseball in the Davidson, Cornelius, and Mooresville communities. He was recently appointed to the Town
Planning Board.

APPEALS + BANKRUPTCY + BUSINESS LAW COLLECTIONS + ESTATE PLANNING PERSONAL INJURY ATTORNEYS Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home 209 Delburg
Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 + (704) 892-1699 » www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

“One thing that really impressed us is that people are always friendly and smiling here,” Nazarov said. “There is a
great amount of opportunities and it is much easier to be you and participate in activities.” The students attested that
administrative procedures are much more formal and official in Russia, where students must receive approval for participating in extracurricular opportunities.
Coming from MGIMO’s Department of Journalism, Yakovleva said that she was impressed by the student-run structure of The Davidsonian, while
Danilova said she has enjoyed attending student-run dance classes such as jazz, ballet, modern, and salsa. When asked about their
overall impression of Davidson and things that had surprised them, the light-hearted, friendly group laughed saying, “There are so many
squirrels here!” After giggling over this, they commented on the small, quiet campus and surrounding town and the mild North
Carolina weather. The students’ cultural observations include an admiration for the Honor Code system, the number of student-run organizations, and
the more informal style of classroom instruction. Yakovleva concluded saying, “From this experience, I can take away a better understanding
of the diversity of life and an ability to accept other people’s views.”

Prosser D. “Sandy” Carnegie has spent almost 30 years representing clients who have suffered substantial injuries due to another person’s
negligence or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas
of the law including contract preparation and review, residential and commercial closings, land development and acquisition, as well as zoning.
Sandy is licensed to practice before all state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia. In addition to his
many responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community. Sandy, a Davidson native, and
his wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy
served many years as a commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town of Davidson committees, is
a member of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of Williams Masonic Lodge #176, A.F. & A.M., and has
LITIGATION * PERSONAL INJURY REAL ESTATE * WILLS TRUSTS
