14 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, APRIL 2, 2008

Aromatherapy may offer relief for stressed students

By CAROLINE WOOD
Arts & Living Editor

Most of us have heard about aromatherapy, whether from our Herbal Essences label or a heavy library tome devoted to
alternative medicine, but fewer may know about the history and science of the popular practice and how easily one can
experiment with it.

Most aromatherapy is based on the use of essential oils, highly concentrated plant extracts that may be harvested by steam
distillation, cold-press expression, or solvent extraction. Possible avenues of aromatherapy are endless, from massage to baths to compresses. Essential oils
have a long history of uses in cultures around the globe. They were included in the ancient Egyptian embalming process,
appeared in Biblical anointment recipes, and serve an integral role in Indian Ayurvedic medicine. The 10th-century Persian physician Avicenna worked
extensively to refine essential oil distillation methods, and Hippocrates himself championed the medicinal benefits of aromatherapy in his writing.

Today, professional practitioners perform medicinal aromatherapy treatments for a wide range of psychological and physical ailments, and essential oils are
occasionally used to complement reflexology (the systematic manipulation of pressure points on the hands and feet). Many people choose to
complement their conventional allopathic medicine with aromatherapy self-treatment. The rich aromas are also popular for their aesthetic appeal, and essential
oils are common in skin, hair, and beauty products, massage oils, perfumes, and natural air fresheners.

Pure essential oils, which may be purchased at natural foods stores and vitamin shops or online, can be used in
a number of ways: Blend them with vegetable or olive oil for a foot, hand, or scalp massage, mix them
into shower products, sprinkle them on your pillow, or diffuse them with a plug-in or candle diffuser.

The medicinal benefits of aromatherapy are numerous but disputed, and different proposed properties have been tested and upheld with varying
levels of success. Supporters claim that the oils, which effectively penetrate body tissues and cell walls, are useful in the
detoxification and oxygenation of cells. Several essential oils contain powerful antioxidants, and diffusing them may help improve air quality by
reducing toxins and increasing negative ions (think salt crystal lamps).

All medical claims aside, the emotional and psychological effects of aromatherapy are well documented. A beautiful, calming smell can cheer
you up, calm you down, or help you prepare for a busy, difficult day. Some oils that may be particularly
useful for the everyday ailments of the Davidson student:

Relaxation/Sleep aid: Lavender
Stress relief: Bergamot (also found in Earl Grey tea)
Headaches: Peppermint or Rosemary
Menstrual cramps: Clary sage
Increased energy: Fir

Essential oils should be used with care and caution; some are quite strong and may cause skin irritation if undiluted.
Essential oils should never be taken internally, except when prescribed by a licensed physician (which only happens in France), and
if any negative side effects arise, stop using the oil immediately and consult your doctor.

Most essential oils sell at natural food stores like The Home Economist or Earth Fare for between $4-15 per 10
milliliter bottle, which will last months or even years depending on how much you use. Experiment with one or a
couple, and you may be glad you did.

Aromatic extracts are harvested from countries across theGlobe

Speed dating promotes healthy community relationships

By JAMIE KNOWLES
Guest Writer

It is all too common that we, both as individuals and as a student body, bemoan the dating environment on
campus. To many students, it seems that we must either participate in the hookup culture of the Court or commit
to a serious relationship that is ultimately headed to the altar. This year’s Third Annual Speed Dating Mixer, sponsored by
the Student Health Advisors, sought to create a laid-back atmosphere through which students could get to know each other as
acquaintances, friends, and possibly lovers.

Although the turnout was not as high as in years past (last year boasted more than 80 students), the event
promised good food, good laughs, and a few awkward moments for all in attendance. As an inexperienced speed-dater, I was
completely unprepared for the sublime times that awaited me as I approached the Sprinkle Room last Wednesday. I was fairly
concerned about my own performance and how introductions would go for a novice like me, so I have to admit
that I prepared a few questions in case conversation proved difficult. These were my top three: Salt or Pepper? Do
you have a tat? Do you play an instrument? Clearly, these questions can salvage any conversation, no matter how awkward,
and they inspired scintillating conversation for all attendees participating, just as they will for those who try them out at
home.

After chatting with everyone in their assigned rotation, all of the speed-daters were invited to celebrate and mingle over juice
and cake. The sparkling cider and grape juice completely changed the Sprinkle Room into a Xanadu of seduction and romance.
By the second drink, everyone had begun to loosen up. For a while, it seemed like we were all old
friends, regaling each other with our own trysts, secret weapons, and failed attempts at romance. One student opened up and
shared a family motto: “My mom tells me, ‘No glove, no love.’” All it took was a few minutes with
each student and a few short rotations around the room, and we had created our own microcosm of trust on
the Davidson College campus.

Although I cannot predict with certainty whether any lasting relationships will emerge from the mixer, I can definitively say that
it was a nice change to have intimate discussions with new acquaintances. There was an earnestness and sincerity among all
of the participants; everyone was open to sharing their experiences and willing to talk thoughtfully about the pros and cons
of our campus’s dating scene. In a time when we as a campus are struggling with so many issues of
discrimination and social tension, I found it particularly interesting and refreshing to hear the group discuss how bi-racial or uni-racial
relationships are perceived by the student body, how they relate to campus life, and how the situation can improve.

Maybe next year you will consider going to the Fourth Annual Speed Dating Mixer. Set aside any preconceived notions you
may have and come with an open mind. And maybe, if you do succeed at letting your guard down, you
will make a new best friend or find a new love.
