14 Tue DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2008

Heisman Award? Who Cares? Curry, ’Cats earn

Curtis YOUNG
Staff Writer

As this college football season enters its third trimester, there are many fantastic storylines. The season has been tremendously exciting, with ranked teams falling weekly and a current top five that no one predicted in August. The season has been rife with upsets, surprises, fantastic play, and rabid fan bases. Allow me to list a few of the intriguing questions that will be answered in the season’s last month. Can Joe Paterno go out with a bang and lead Penn State to a national title? (I do believe he will retire if the Nittany Lions hoist the crystal football at season’s end.) Is Nick Saban’s Alabama team really far enough ahead of schedule that they can claim a championship in his second year at the helm? Or we could go with a few others. Who will emerge out of the wild, wacky, and offensively supercharged Big 12? Can USC climb back into the championship picture after their disaster at Oregon State? Any one of these questions would serve as a wonderful leading story about the rest of the season.

So what does the majority of media outlets deem as the most promising topic? That would be the race for this country’s most overhyped and overrated piece of hardware: the Heisman trophy. Simply put, the Heisman trophy does not hold the same cache that it once did. The voting process has become obsolete, and the trophy has become more of a spectacle than an actual honor. Sportswriters across the country vote for their Heisman choices, with the award finally being presented in early December. First, a trophy given out before the bowl games have been played and the national championship decided is ludicrous. In fact, voters can turn in their ballots weeks before the regular season has even ended. We currently have a system that does not even honor a full season’s work.

For example, in 2005 USC’s Reggie Bush captured the Heisman. Bush was certainly a phenomenal college player who captivated the nation with his dazzling runs and incredible spin moves. However, was he the best player in the country that year? Or how about the player most valuable to his own team? I would venture to say no on both counts. As the BCS Championship game showed that year, Texas’ Vince Young was the nation’s most outstanding player. He accounted for over 400 yards of total offense as Texas upset the favored Trojans in the Rose Bowl (a game played in USC’s backyard). Anyone who watched that game knew that Texas, without Young, was nowhere near USC’s level. I would argue that USC without Bush would have found themselves in the same spot. They had All-Americans in QB Matt Leinart, RB LenDale White (yes, Bush’s backfield partner was named an All-American by several outlets), and WR Dwayne Jarrett. So how did Bush run away with the Heisman when Young had actually had a regular season that held up well to his Rose Bowl performance? That takes us down another road that indicates a severe flaw in the voting system.

It really is a novel idea: voters have biases! A city like Los Angeles has many prominent sportswriters. Given the numbers, it is clear that a fairly large percentage will come from that area. Seemingly every year, votes are almost completely segregated by region. Southern writers will typically vote SEC or ACC. Midwest? Big 12 or Big Ten. Western voters almost always side with candidates from the West. This used to serve a purpose. Before the days of internet and satellite television, average fans did not get to see many games from outside their regions. The writers had an obligation to stand up for their local candidate. Now, I can sit on my couch on Saturdays and watch pretty much any game I want. Davidson itself offers students five different ESPN channels! Regional bias creates a problem because all regions are not created equal. In the SEC, there will likely be several candidates each year. In the Pac-10, which has been dominated by USC for years, there is usually a dearth of candidates not wearing Trojan colors.

I, for one, would like to see all of this “Heisman hype” put to an end. I couldn’t care less whether Texas Tech’s Graham Harrell wins the award. I care much more about how the Red Raiders handle their no. 2 ranking in the polls this week. Texas Tech upset previously top-ranked Texas last week in the best game I have watched this season. What did we get to hear about in the postgame? How does this impact the Heisman? Yuck. So sit back, enjoy the roller coaster that is the college football season, and forget about the Heisman trophy race. You will not regret it.

Hockey earns weekly honors, falls to no. 5 UNC

Kris HENDERSHOT
Staff Writer

The Davidson field hockey team had a mixed week with conference accolades and a defeat against the University of North Carolina, who is ranked sixth in the country. Last Sunday the team traveled to Chapel Hill for their last regular game of the season and was defeated 9-0. The Tar Heels, one of the toughest teams in the country, provided good exposure and experience for the Wildcats. The Wildcats earlier in the year lost a rather close game to Wake Forest who is number one in the country. These two games demonstrate the difficulty of the schedule for the team. Earlier last week two of the girls were given conference weekly awards. Midfielder Britti Himelfarb ’09 was awarded Offensive Player of the Week for her goals and her role in Davidson’s wins two weeks ago. In the last two home gamesOf her college career, Himelfarb was recognized for her impressive back-to-back two-goal games. She also had assists that were a part of her award for being the best offensive player two weeks ago. Midfielder Kathelijn van der Ven ’12 was awarded Rookie of the Week for the second time this season. She has had an impressive rookie season, contributing to Davidson’s success. Van der Ven scored four points in the two games considered for the award. She has the second place ranking for points on the team with fourteen. She has started all of the 18 games for the team this year, which makes her one of only two on the team.

In the game against UNC, last year’s national champions, the Wildcats were unable to obtain any momentum and were unable to capitalize on scoring opportunities. Goaltender Christa Goeke ’10 was impressive, saving 11 shots in 62 minutes of action. This save total was a season high for the team. For the year she has 68 saves and 244 for her career, moving her into fifth on the all-time career saves list. Himelfarb had the only shot for the Wildcats, giving her 28 for the year, the second highest total on the team. The loss ended a three-game winning streak for the Wildcats and was an unhappy ending to their regular season. Davidson’s regular season record for this year was 6-13. The team hopes to overlook the game and move on to an impressive showing in the conference tournament. They were given the seventh seed in the tournament and will play number two in the conference, Stanford, on Nov. 6 in Farmville, Va.

Men’s Soccer (4-13-1, 2-5-0)
Results:
10/29 @ Wofford W 1-0
11/1 vs. Ga. Southern L 1-2
Next Up:
11/8 SoCon Quarterfinals: @ Furman
Notes: For the second consecutive season the Wildcats’ season came to an end with a one-goal home loss to Furman in the SoCon Tournament.

Women’s Soccer (10-6-3, 8-4)
Results:
10/30 @ Ga. Southern W 2-1
11/2 SoCon Quarterfinals: vs. Furman L 0-1
Next Up:
Notes: The ’Cats return to Furman where they lost 2-1 on October 10 for a match-up with the second-seeded Paladins in the first round of the SoCon Tournament.

Football (3-5, 2-4)
Results:
11/1 @ Campbell W 49-0
Next Up:
Notes: The Wildcats ended a four-game losing streak with their win over Campbell and will finish the season with three straight home games.

Field Hockey (6-13, 1-5)
Results:
11/2 @ UNC L 0-9
Next Up:
11/6-11/8 NorPac Tournament: 11/6 vs. Stanford 11/7 TBD
Notes: Goalkeeper Christa Goeke ’10 had a season-high 11 saves in the loss to UNC and is now 5th on Davidson’s all-time saves list.

Preseason Accolades
By MIKE FRONGELLO
Sports Editor

Fresh off last season’s Elite 8 run, the Davidson men’s basketball team is still receiving quite a bit of attention prior to the start of the 2008-2009 season. Both the preseason ESPN/USA Today Coaches Poll and the preseason Associated Press Poll were released this week and featured the ’Cats ranked 20th in the nation. The Wildcats finished last season ranked no. 9 in both polls following their 29-7 season and deep tournament run, but this year must replace the holes left by the graduated Jason Richards ’08 and Thomas Sander ’08.

Davidson is looking for its fourth straight Southern Conference title this year after cruising to a 23-0 record in conference play last season. The Wildcats have been tabbed by the conference’s coaches and media to repeat as South Division champs, receiving a unanimous 11 votes from opposing coaches and 19 out of 20 media votes. Also announced at the Southern Conference’s Tip-off luncheon in Charlotte last week was the selection of Stephen Curry ’10 as the SoCon Preseason Player of the Year. Curry averaged 25.9 points per game and was among the nation’s leaders in scoring last season as a sophomore. Along with Curry, forward Andrew Lovedale ’09 was also named to the preseason All-Conference team.

In addition to the SoCon Preseason Player of the Year honor, Curry joins North Carolina’s Tyler Hansborough, Notre Dame’s Luke Haragody, UCLA’s Darren Collison, and Oklahoma’s Blake Griffin on the Associated Press Preseason All-American Team. The junior guard received 66 out of 72 votes and was the second leading vote-getter, behind Hansborough, the only unanimous selection.

Davidson and Curry face a possible match-up with Griffin and his Oklahoma Sooners in the second round of the Preseason NIT in Norman, Oklahoma on Nov. 18. The ’Cats will also have a chance to solidify their preseason ranking with another tough nonconference schedule that includes N.C. State (Dec. 6), West Virginia in the Jimmy V Basketball Classic (Dec. 9), preseason no. 11 Purdue in the Wooden Tradition (Dec. 20), and a short road trip to Cameron Indoor Stadium to face preseason no. 8 Duke (Jan. 7).

Curry and the ’Cats burst onto the national scene last season in March as they defeated Gonzaga, Georgetown, and Wisconsin on their way to the Midwest Regional Final where the team lost to eventual national champion Kansas 59-57 in Detroit. After averaging an NCAA Tournament-leading 32 points per game, Curry was named the Midwest Regional’s Most Outstanding Player.

Volleyball (11-16, 6-8)
Results:
11/7 vs. CofC
11/8 vs. Citadel
Notes: Caroline Sanker ’09 finished eighth individually at the SoCon Championships with a time of 18:13. Her performance earned her All-Conference honors for the third consecutive season.