Curry jersey SEE PAGE 7 Male swimmers object to Self-Selection Night Speedo Run SEE PAGE 2 Four out of five
males lecherous misogynists SEE PAGE 2 THEYOWL Your Davidsonian Honor Section Editors: Alex Hoyt, James Boswell Senior Staff Writer: Alex
Greening Guest Contributor: Will Blue Celebrated ball(s) dropping on New Year's: Chaze Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to
The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word. THE DAVIDSONIAN Fuller wets the bed. This smooth,
successful party perfectly illustrates the lack of bids. Spirits were high Friday evening as many first-year students celebrated their return
to campus by joining a Patterson Court organization. Absent from the festivities, however, were a large number of “independent” students.
Many independents find social structure similar to that offered by a PCC organization in other groups around campus. Jonathan Matlin
Guest Editorial Max Schreber, disgusted by peers. I love knowledge but hate school. By government decree, my parents subject me
to the daily social and physical abuse that is freshman year at Joseph Dalton Hooker High for a carbuncular Red
Alert grandmaster. The marginal teaching abilities of the faculty in no way compensate for the social fascism I endure. I
want out. I am an only child, a rogue warrior if you will, and it has been over 9,800 hours
since I had a face-to-face interaction with anyone outside of class. I could enhance my education, expand my mind, develop
leadership skills and enhance my social network without ever leaving my room, aka the Bat Cave. Reaping the benefits of
technology, I am building the brain and hands necessary to reach success in the virtual workplace I will enter in
2014. The virtues of team sports are a moot point, as glandular trolls have cut me from every swinish herd
of philistines I have ever been acquainted with. Besides, what advantage does physical strength have in today's world? No one
will ever be as strong as my 260-gigabyte hard drive, or as fast as my broadband connection. Court Selection Night
Runs Smoothly for Independents "I went to the first- and second-night down parties but didn't really bother to participate in
rush beyond that. After I didn't get a bid to an on-campus fraternity, I figured the Eco House would be
a decent second choice,” explained one student. Other independents cite a prosaic and repetitive cross-Court playlist as a deterring factor.
Junior independent Katie Kinsall complained, “By November I was absolutely sick of both ‘Soulja Boy’ and ‘Sweet Caroline’ (techno remix).”
Kinsall hosted a well-attended independent party at her off-campus residence. Independent party-goers reported “drink selections other than Beast, cool new
music,” and a party that lasted well past 2:00 a.m. Please Send me to my Room! My competitive activity occurs
within the dimension of my 45" flat screen TV, where my Halo 3 gamer tag MaXpAyne99 has achieved the rank
of grade-2 brigadier. Such status garners respect from online comrades, who look to me for guidance when engaged in combat.
I utilize my wireless headset to outline battle tactics, orchestrate counters, and motivate teammates. With each game of Slayer, I
further develop my keen sense of team dynamic. I have secured victories with blood-hungry head cases, self-interested kill-hogs, and risk-averse
pansies. Their virtual will become my reality as I adapt my web-warrior skills into real-world assets further down the ethernet
cord. Hooker High is a nether-realm of jockstraps and lip-gloss where I restrain myself from asking penetrating questions for fear
of the lunch hour wedgies they elicit. How can I befriend other learning enthusiasts and gain social skills without human
interaction, an outdated computer illiterate might ask. Well, Mavis Beacon recently clocked me at 220.Flawless words-per-minute, allowing me to marshal
more than 20 chatrooms at once. (When I do look down at my keypad, it is only to admire the
flow and precision of my keystrokes.) My social outlet is MySpace. I have amassed over 1400 friends, many of whom
constantly write touching blurbs on my wall. You could call me a digital butterfly. While the jocks and plastics have
the classroom, I will be learning the way of the future. Mom, please send me to my room!

January 23, 2008

The Davidsonian

Kris Kringle Busted for DUI

Mr. Kris Kringle trying to sober up with a Coke in his Saskatchewan holding cell after he was detained at
the Canadian border at 2:30 am. Canadian police have charged an unidentified man with a second-degree felony for driving an
unregistered sleigh on an expired license and heavily under the influence the night of Monday, December 24th. An officer's breathalyzer
indicated that he had been operating his 1,500-pound sled with a Blood Alcohol Content of 0.25. When asked to walk
a straight line, he attempted to bribe the officers with X-Box 360s, Fatheads, and a Teletubby. Two of the reindeer
drawing his sleigh, identified by their collars as “Dasher” and “Blitzen,” were found to have traces of alcohol in their
systems. Police believe the suspect to be one Santa Claus, aka Saint Nicholas, Father Christmas, or Kris Kringle.

Mr. Claus claims he started his bender with two shots of Jaegermeister in Munich at roughly 11:00 pm on the
night of the 24th, followed with three Irish Car Bombs in Boston an hour later and two Singapore Slings “somewhere
in Asia” at 2:00 am. His information is compromised by the fact that a Saskatchewan state trooper claims to have
found him doing donuts on a frozen pond two miles outside of Prince Albert at 11:53 p.m. on the night
of the 24th. Mr. Claus inadvertently informed police of further criminal infractions, this time breaking and entering—when he claimed that
all the alcohol he consumed was obtained from private residences he had entered via chimney. Although he claims to know
the families who provided the alcohol, in his intoxicated state he could neither remember names nor addresses. Police suspect that
Mr. Claus, who is rumored to use several international aliases, is involved in a black market plastic toy cartel run
out of Istanbul, as well as a slave labor ring somewhere northwest of Greenland.

Eating Houses Introduce New Fragrance: “Condoment”

In a rare display of complete collaboration, all four of the eating houses introduced a new self-selection-specific perfume last Friday.
According to Connor House president Annie Huddle, the new fragrance is the result of extensive market research. “We've known for
years that more hook-ups occurred on self-selection night than any other, but we never knew why,” Huddle said. “Finally, we
put two and two together.” A team of researchers from the four eating houses has attributed the single-night spike in
the campus’ sexual activity to the libido-intensifying effects of the mixed condiments. “Someway, somehow, the blend of aromas ignites a
fire inside those little boys,” said Turner self-selection chair Amber Bacardi. The specific ingredients of the perfume will change each
year, with the debut scent combining the condiments used by all the eating houses, including ketchup, mustard, barbeque sauce, honey,
chocolate syrup, mayonnaise, and many others. “We had to take advantage of this phenomenon,” Bacardi said. “Now the girls can
be irresistible year-round.” Though the eating houses appear to be promoting widespread sexual superabundance, they do still advocate practicing safe
sex, as the product's risqué name suggests. Be warned, however, that this product is not a contraceptive, and it in
no way serves as an alternative to latex condoms.
