THE DAVIDSONIAN

If you're curious and adventurous, then pack your bags and say goodbye to the status quo.

Study abroad to earn college credit, experience a different culture, learn a foreign language, discover who you are, and much more.

USAC, your gateway to the world.™

Earth photo courtesy of NASA: The Visible Earth, http://visibleearth.nasa.gov/

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2008

The Wildcat Pulse

Wrestling shows potential at Mocs

By KEVIN BIRNEY
Staff Writer

Davidson wrestling had a tough challenge this past weekend against Chattanooga, arguably the best team in the Southern Conference and the No. 19 team in the nation. The team lost the match but had some good highlights, including the first career pin for Vitaly Radsky ’11. Sam O’Hair ’09 and Charlie Wolff ’11 also had close matches.

The ’Cats never got off on the right foot against the Mocs, who came into the dual with an undefeated league record and a 7-5 record overall. Chattanooga took the first two matches before Radsky could get Davidson on the board with a pin victory 5:23 into the match.

“It felt good to win,” Radsky said afterwards, “but I pinned the back-up for UTC, not the starter. I did a good job wearing him down and got the pin thanks to my conditioning.”

At that point, the score read 8-6 in favor of Chattanooga, but Davidson continued to struggle after Radsky’s pin. O’Hair wrestled a very close match before dropping the decision, 7-1. Wolff appeared as if he was going to pull out a win to close the day for the ’Cats, but UTC’s heavyweight was able to inch past him, 4-2. In the end, the Mocs won 40-6 to improve their SoCon record to 3-0.

Next Tuesday, the ’Cats will look for a victory in a very winnable SoCon dual with The Citadel. The season is beginning to wind down, with the SoCon Championships about a month away, so Davidson will look to finish strong while building momentum for next season.

Swimming splits in CCSAC tune-up

By Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

The swimming and diving teams drew their regular seasons to a close Saturday at a tri-meet at Radford. The women beat Radford 186-37 and VMI 196-19 but were on the wrong end of a 128-96 decision against Virginia Tech. The men also defeated VMI, 163-57, but fell to Tech, 137-80.

In what amounted to a tune-up for the Coastal Collegiate Swimming Association Championships (Feb. 21-23), Jessica Delgehausen ’11 and Lindsey Martin ’11 led the women by recording second place finishes in the 1000-meter freestyle (10:37.47) and 100-meter freestyle (52.55), respectively. The men were led by Fiete Stegger’s ’08 runner-up finish in the 200 individual medley (1:58.49) and Adam Topaz’s ’08 fourth-place finish in the 200-meter freestyle (1:47.95).

“Our athletes had a chance to switch events today, and we enjoyed some good races,” head coach John Young said. “Fiete was great, pacing the men with impressive performances, including a backstroke leg in the IM faster than our reigning backstroke record holder’s.”

“The team is fit and ready to rest for the conference meet,” Young concluded.