THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES

Unfounded gendered politics must stop | ANJAN MUKHERJEE Guest Columnist

On Tuesday, Jan. 29, the Massachusetts chapter of the National Organization for Women (NOW) heavily criticized Senator Ted Kennedy for
endorsing Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama. NOW endorses Hillary Clinton. The state chapter of NOW claimed his endorsement to be
the “ultimate betrayal,” because it shows he “can’t or won’t handle the prospect of a woman president.” Furthermore, the state
chapter accused Kennedy of continuing to dismiss the “status of and respect for women’s rights, women’s voices, women’s equality, women’s
authority.” They brought up his past voting record, claiming he was late to get behind Title IX. The national chapter
of NOW, however, has tried to separate itself from the statements made by its Massachusetts chapter, stating that although NOW
proudly endorses Sen. Clinton, it respects Sen. Kennedy’s decision.

It is important to clarify something before moving forward. Supporting Hillary Clinton does not make someone a racist. Similarly, supporting
Barack Obama does not make someone a sexist. Voters should select a candidate based on that politician’s platforms on important
issues. While it is a big step in this country’s history that an African-American and a woman have emerged as
the two frontrunners for the Democratic Party, factors such as race and gender should not matter while choosing a candidate.

The Massachusetts chapter’s claim that Sen. Kennedy cannot handle a woman president is ludicrous. Explaining his reasons in a speech
at American University, Sen. Kennedy said that Obama provides a “new generation of leadership,” desperately needed in Washington. In his
eyes, Hillary Clinton’s presidency would be a continuation of current Washington politics. Since 1989, the president has been either a
Bush or a Clinton and Hillary Clinton taking over in 2009 would not bring the right change. He also pointed
out that Obama never supported the war in Iraq, while Hillary Clinton originally had. Throughout his speech, Kennedy reiterated that
a President Obama would bring about the right sort of change both domestically as well as in foreign affairs.

Life on the Court An Epic Poem by Andy Knauss Chapter Three: Lust

Meet college student X, a would-be Don Juan, As he hits the dance floor and gets his “freak” on. When
last we saw X he was totally drunk, And had started to imagine himself as a hunk; With alcohol inflating
his sense of pride An average Jekyll transformed into boisterous Hyde. This booze-induced courage impaired his cognition To the extent
that X acts now without inhibition. His modesty o’erthrown by Budweiser Light Certain “urges” awoke that X could not fight,
Compelled by his hormones out into the night In a madcap pursuit of carnal delight. X soon came across a
faux Mardi Gras, The theme of the party at Alpha Omega. As fraternities go, AO has excelled In the throwing
of parties esteemed nonpareil; Although the GPA of the frat ranks dead last, In terms of “rockin’ out” they're first
in the class. With his wild oats in need to be sown, X hastened his pace toward that pleasure dome.
He could not resist, so completely enthralled As if under the spell of a sweet Siren’s call; Lured by temptation,
X entered the squall. Even the best among us can fall.

According to The New York Times, Kennedy’s decision was partly fueled by former President Bill Clinton’s statements in support of
his wife. Some of these statements were aimed directly at Obama. Kennedy likened Obama’s message to that of former President
John F. Kennedy, his brother. He said that just as President Kennedy believed that man could go to the moon
when it seemed impossible, Obama has a vision that carries the “politics of hope.” Clearly, Kennedy’s decision has nothing to
do with Clinton’s gender, but rather her platform. The Massachusetts chapter of NOW also said that it is their “obligation”
to support a woman candidate after centuries.of men in power. This should not be a reason to support a candidate.
If the state chapter cited Clinton’s plan for universal health care, or lack of support for No Child Left Behind,
their support of her candidacy would make more sense. If the Massachusetts chapter of NOW truly respects women’s rights, women’s
voices, women’s equality, and women’s authority, it should look past its blatantly hypocritical statement. Voters should enjoy the right to
support whomever they choose, and NOW should respect that right. Its website says that its purpose includes “living free from
discrimination.” Supporting a candidate simply because of gender is indeed discriminatory, and the Massachusetts state chapter should be ashamed for
making its sexist claim. Hiring practices dictate that merit should determine hiring and firing, not age, disability, race, or gender.
NOW, or any other voter or interest group, should support a candidate based on his or her qualifications. The Massachusetts
chapter of NOW has not only made itself look foolish but has placed Hillary Clinton in a tight spot as
well. On one hand, she does not want to lose votes by chiding NOW; on the other, she does not
want to condone their statements. The Massachusetts chapter of NOW should issue an apology not only to Sen. Kennedy and
the national chapter, but also to its members. Anjan Mukherjee ’09 is a Music major from Chevy Chase, Md. Contact
him at anmukherjee@davidson.edu

You are invited to attend to give your own personal perceptions of homophobia and explain Davidson’s policies and actions to
promote acceptance of the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender (GLBT) community. The discussion will open with our guests’ comments, and
we hope it will be followed by organic discussion clarifying the size of the problem and devising real solutions for
the campus. A large and diverse turnout is vital for the success of this discussion. We want all people to
come with questions, personal or witness experiences, or a general interest. “Davidson’s Homophobia” is February 11, 2008, at 7:00 p.m.
in the Sprinkle Room.

Music pulsing, bodies writhing; More people keep arriving... Packed together - girls and boys. Ears bleeding from the noise; Sticky
floors and stale perfume, Shadows thrashing in the gloom; Drenched in sweat from head to toe, Engulfed within the inferno.
X stumbles about, his neck lined with beads... “Huh,” he wonders, “how'd I get these?” His attention then turns, with
unbridled glee, To a girl wearing nothing save a bikini. The guys around her ogle and swoon Like characters out
of a Tex Avery cartoon. X can’t look away...but wait, what’s next? Did somebody just say “Wet T-Shirt Contest?” As
his blood boils over, X does not believe That he’s ever experienced such joie de vivre. He surveys the crowd
and, brimming with cheer, Is intoxicated now on more than just beer. “Decency be damned!” X thinks with a sneer,
As his loins anticipate the “final frontier.” This orgy of flesh, where students wantonly cavort, Makes lust the third stop
on our tour of the court:
