THE DAVIDSONIAN

dislike of surveys
SEE PAGE 2

Ee COUNTESY

sing at concert
SEE PAGE 7

Listless studio art
major studies for

List, sort of
SEE PAGE 7

birthday, again
SEE PAGE 4
Eccentric student

assignment
SEE PAGE 2

THEYOWL

Your Davidsonian Honor Section
Editors:

James Boswell
Alex Hoyt

Cooler than Jason Mraz:
Jason Morales

Saving the Earth, one Roth
IRA at a time: Anders

Note: The Yowl! is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

EARTH DAY + JASON MRAZ = AWESOME WEDNESDAY, April 23, 2008 = 5

THIRD WATTS—At roughly 11:39 p.m. Saturday night, just as the freshman pre-gaming session was kicking into full swing, Ben Gunn was presented with the Black Spot.

Pregaming Islander was a blast...

The unofficial leader of his freshman hall and Sigma Alpha Epsilon pledge class president, Gunn was inwardly shocked by this intimation of forthcoming mutiny, but continued slamming shots of coconut rum with his hallmates as though nothing had happened.

Shortly before midnight, the crew drifted down to the Fiji Islander party. Once there, a fully sloshed Gunn found himself stranded in conversation with Amber Goodman, widely regarded as the worst conversationalist at Davidson College.

Gunn at the end of a rough night

Gunn spent much of the next three hours searching for water and talking to a volleyball. At 2:33 p.m. he was finally rescued by the S.S. Vamanos.

Three New Housing Options: Aristocratic, Bourgeoisie & Proletariat-Themed Halls

Have you ever scoffed at your neighbor's philistine obsession with Stephen King, or his unbecoming preference for American Eagle garments? Ever inwardly thumb your nose at the prosaic lyrics of John Mayer incessantly streaming from the speakers across the hall?

A standard-sized room on Duke’s new Aristocratic Hall

No longer will you be forced to cohabitate with the uncouth, unwashed masses. According to the Davidson College Resident Life Office, students of acceptable lineage and upbringing will be eligible for the new Upper Crust Hall on the third floor of Duke Dormitory.

The hall's Rococo lounge will be modeled after Versailles’ Chateau Neuf, featuring a hall of mirrors, two marble terraces, and a sunken octagonal tub.

Students of new money, merchant or artisan backgrounds will be eligible for the Bourgeoisie Hall directly below. The hall will be modeled on Levittown, America, in the common room.

These bland conformists are shoe-ins for Duke’s Bourgeoisie Hall. Anyone wishing to live in Duke who is unqualified for either of the aforementioned halls will be confined to the dingy Proletariat Hall on the first floor. These disenfranchised bastards will live three-to-a-room and work 12-hour days.

Walls will actually be cardboard partitions and plumbing cannot be guaranteed.

From here on out the rabble will be kept in the basement.

UBERTAS

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

April 23, 2008

Student Marooned

The Davidsonian

THE WEDNESDAY BOOK REVIEW

The J Board, by John Grisham
436 pp. Doubleday. $27.95

Departing from his standard backdrop of corporate corruption and powerful D.C. litigators, John Grisham presents us with a riveting look at what is arguably Davidson’s second most powerful student-run judicial body.

The story centers on Hank Paxton, the brash, suave president of Sigma Pi Epsilon who may or may not have forced his pledges to consume inhumane quantities of cheesecake during their new member education.

When a pledge goes to the infirmary with an upset stomach, Paxton faces lawsuits from parents, The Cheesecake Factory’s ravenous corporate litigators, and the school’s private counsel, a roguish country clubber with an indiscreet daughter and a few skeletons in his closet.

For Hank’s defense, enter Skip Kingsley, a down-at-the-heels private-practice lawyer with a penchant for Jim Beam and a tendency to blow the few cases that drift his way.

With the plaintiffs lusting after a large out-of-court settlement and Kingsley resolutely campaigning for a just trial, the case can only be headed in one direction: the school’s nebulous yet omnipotent J Board.

I wouldn’t be giving away anything to tell you that the trial is rife with double standards, petty moralizing and blackmail. It also features a subpoenaed cook and a love rhombus that will knock your socks off.

“The J Board” may not be as deftly penned as Tom Wolfe’s scathing portrayal of liberal arts academia, “Bonfire of the Humanities,” but the tight plotting and cliffhanger endings will leave you longing for Grisham’s next projects, “The E Board” and “The PCC,” slated for release next fall.

Jason Mraz Actually Andy Kifer

In a shocking revelation last Thursday, the eclectic Virginia-born singer-songwriter formerly known as Jason Mraz announced that he is none other than Davidson senior Andy Kifer.

“The flannel, the patchy beard, the lack of vocal range—this just explains so much,” said freshman Johnathon Springfield.

Kifer is still confident that his fan base will turn out for the Pulit Suprises’s next show.

Our Fratty Asshole & to jUMgpr

Not only did Zach lose his dignity, he also lost the ability to barge.