THE DAVIDSONIAN

We were initially supposed to have since changed our plans and won’t be. The Dean Rusk International Studies Program; Clark
Ross, Vice President for Academic Affairs; and a group on Deerth met for a few days later. Bennett, Breeden, Evan,
Colbert, Mary Hannating, Kaela Peale, Lindsay, and Franky, who was able to give us her perspective on the situation. She
offered thoughts on the state of security in India as compared to other areas.

11/19/08 23:39 Suspicious Person Belk Parking Lot
A female Davidson student called and reported three suspicious white males in the Belk Parking Area on Wednesday. Sgt. Tim
Ramsey received the call and responded to the area. While en route, the reporting officer obtained additional information from the
caller. The caller stated that she observed the individuals just standing by a Jeep Cherokee parked in the center row.
The individuals looked suspicious to her because they just stood next to the vehicle for a minute or so, never
getting in. She also stated that she didn’t get a good look, believing that they could have been freshmen. The
reporting officer checked the lot and surrounding area, finding nothing out of the ordinary.

11/20/08 01:47 “Do It In the Dark” Deemed Hazardous First Floor Cannon
While conducting routine foot patrol, an officer observed that the first floor of Cannon Dorm was completely dark due to
all the hallway lights being turned off. The officer asked some students why the lights were out and was advised
that the dorm was trying to win some contest to save energy. It was very dark when entering the hall
and could be a hazard.

11/23/08 3:18 Exit Light Crime Prevention Knox Dorm
Exit Lights On Sunday, Officer Combs conducted a foot patrol of the following areas: Irwin Dorm, Akers Dorm, and Knox
Dorm. Officer Combs observed no suspicious activity during these times but did observe damage in Knox Dorm. Officer Combs took
photographs of three “Exit” lights that were damaged by unknown persons. The “Exit” lights were located on the first floor
in the following areas:
- Main Entrance Door
- Hallway Door by Room 101
- Hallway Door by Room 107
Officer Combs has reason to believe that the damage occurred sometime after 2100 hrs, because two students in the hallway
stated “the area was fine before the Phi Delt party was complete.”

11/25/08 00:27 Bud Light Prevention Chambers
On Tuesday, 11-25-2008, at 0027 hrs Officer Thompson and Officer Chaffee conducted foot patrol within the following buildings: Richardson Dorm,
Belk Dorm, Watts Dorm, and Chambers. The officers observed two Davidson College students in the lecture classroom (Hance Auditorium) on
the fourth floor of the Chambers building drinking Bud Light beer and watching a movie on the projector screen. The
officers observed approximately seven empty 12 oz. beer cans on the floor and also in their possession.

12/2/08 19:56 Found Property 200 Baker Drive
On Tuesday, December 2, 2008, at 1956 hrs Officer Heinz was contacted on the officer cell phone in reference to
a property found. Chief Walker advised during the women’s basketball game, a male spectator brought him a purse that he
had found. The man stated that he found the purse in the middle of a road in Mooresville, possibly Williamson
Rd, while on his way to the basketball game. The male’s name and identity can be obtained through the Davidson
College Police Department. The purse contains an Indiana driver’s license. The reporting officer ran the OLN through NCIC, all comes
back negative at this time. The reporting officer contacted the Mooresville Police Department Dispatch and advised her of the situation.
They advised that the individual in question is not in their system. The purse and property are as follows:
- One Vera Bradley purse, black, white, red
- One Vera Bradley wallet, black, white, red
- One $100 dollar bill, U.S. currency
- One 5/3 Platinum Master Card
- One Sony Cyber-shot Digital Camera, pink
- One Bic Lighter, red
- One PROAir Inhaler, red
- One US Airways E-Ticket for Sunday, November 30 from Chicago O’Hare to Charlotte
Also other small miscellaneous items.

MIXE ANDERSON Staff Writer
Author Peter Charles Melman spoke on Jewish involvement in the Confederate cause during the Civil War in the 900 Room
of the Alvarez College Union last Saturday. Melman’s speech was introduced as being the first in a series of Jewish
culture events. It was noted that the Jewish community in the Charlotte area has grown tremendously in the past several
years, so its leaders can finally bring an event like this to Davidson. Melman, who graduated from Tufts University with
a B.A. and went on to earn his Ph.D. from the University of Louisiana, spoke on his recently published novel,
“Landsman.” While the novel is set during the Civil War, Melman does not consider it a Civil War novel per
se; rather, it is a novel framed against the Civil War.The more important theme is in the book’s title, which
is a homonym: landsmen are both people who live and work on the land and a Yiddish term for people
of the same country. Melman’s speech examined these two identities within the context of his novel. His interest in the
topic began years ago, when he was working in a Seattle bookstore. He came across a text with the following
line: “Several thousand Jews fought for the South during the Civil War.” “It seems to me morally ironic. We ourselves
as a people [the Jews] were enslaved,” Melman said. To try to understand this statement, Melman researched thoroughly, contacting professors
at colleges like Louisiana State University and Tulane University, obtaining primary texts from the public libraries in his home of
New York and checking the etymology of the era to ensure his novel would be as accurate as possible. His
research gave birth to his main character, Elias Abrams, a New Orleans Jew who is astereotypical of his religious community.
He is illiterate, tough and navigates the “thuggish underground” of his native city, which at the time had the fourth
largest population of Jews at 4,000 people. Melman used Abrams’ Civil War story to explain the seeming contradiction of being
Jewish and supporting a slave-holding society. “They [Jews] found a home,” Melman said. According to Melman, those Jews were able
to rationalize their hypocrisy with the statement “You are at root a southerner.” To allow for their southern identity, they
had to forget some of their “Jewishness” and therefore forget their opposition to slavery. They rationalized in much the same
way that gentiles did: they were fighting in defense of the land. Melman’s character eventually comes to question southern Jews’
efforts in the war. There was intense anti-Semitism at the time. Melman said that General Ulysses Grant tried to ban
Jews from an entire area. Yet, Jews assimilated and therefore forgot what separated them from the rest of the southern
population, including their disdain for slavery. Despite the gravity of the topic, Melman maintained a humorous tone throughout the lecture
and appeared to have a very receptive audience. He said that when his 90-year-old grandmother shared her reaction to the
book, she called it the “horniest” book she had ever read. “You can sanitize war or you can write it
as it is,” Melman said.

Students L.E.A.D. in support of Latina women
Jesse JOHNSON Staff Writer

Davidson College has a new service organization on the rise, L.E.A.D. (Latina Empowerment Achievement and Development Program). The group is
quickly getting involved, with a women’s clothes drive currently taking place on campus. The organization was founded by Bonner scholar
Jessica Gallegos ’11 and has already received a highly competitive Bonner Community Fund Grant to help cover the expenses in
beginning the program. LEAD is a volunteer-based program working in partnership with the Latino services at Ada Jenkins Center. The
volunteers hope to provide Latina women in the Davidson, Lake Norman, Huntersville, Cornelius, and Mooresville areas with interviewing skills, business
clothing and career-related workshops. Through these activities L.E.A.D. seeks to aid the professional development of Latinas. A program like this
would be the perfect way to serve as a confidence booster for Latina women, as well as a tool to
assist women in deciding their career path. During the next couple of months, volunteers will work with Latina women to
pick out business suits that fit them. The purpose of having a volunteer assist with this process is to ensure
that the women feel comfortable with what they choose, since one of the main concepts L.E.A.D members are trying to
teach these women is that confidence is key. After selecting outfits, volunteers will then have one-on-one meetings with the Latina
women, to better understand how to increase their chances of getting hired. Davidson student-volunteers will train with Career Services to
learn how to best help the women with their applications. Volunteers will help them start or improve a résumé, explain
the steps to searching for a job and help prepare them for the interview process through mock interviews. Students in
L.E.A.D. are also prepared to further assist the Latina women in networking. Through Ada Jenkins, L.E.A.D. has many opportunities to
assist these women in different ways. Throughout the year, there will be on-campus clothing drives for the women that will
participate in L.E.A.D. The organization is currently collecting new or used women’s business attire in boxes at locations around campus,
such as Chambers, the Union and residence halls. This organization hopes to have a profound impact on the Latina women
involved. After this year, if all goes well, Gallegos will look to extend the program to women of other identities
who face similar obstacles.
