THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, April 2, 2008 13

PERSPECTIVES

Little-known website draws fan following

ANJAN MUKHERJEE
Guest Columnist

For a long time, Davidson College has been described as North Carolina's best-kept secret. It is, after all, a selective
liberal arts college of 1,700 students outside of Charlotte. As students and representatives of this college, we are passionate about
many aspects of our lives, including our athletic programs.

Tour guides and pamphlets indicate that over a quarter of the student body takes part in a varsity sport and
that students are frequently found supporting their peers and friends in competitions.

This campus and community are undoubtedly full of Wildcats fans, as many cheered on the men's basketball team's inspiring run
in the NCAA tournament. With that in mind, allow me to introduce what may be the Internet's best-kept secret: DavidsonCats.com.

DavidsonCats.com has become the unofficial online forum for Davidson athletics. The main page on the message board has links to
pages devoted to various sports at Davidson, such as football, men's and women's basketball, baseball, and others. The forum also
has threads for non-athletic topics relating to the Wildcats.

Since its inception a few years ago, the website has steadily grown in underground popularity. Many people get their 'Cats-related
news there. As students at Davidson, we are constantly fed information regarding Davidson athletics with emails and pamphlets advertising games,
pep rallies, and the like. For alumni, community members, and other fans of the Wildcats, DavidsonCats.com is the most convenient
way to receive that information.

As soon as the Athletic Department had information about the men's team's return flight to Charlotte on Sunday night, it
was posted on the website. Others use the website to read up on Davidson's publicity throughout the country. Users often
post print-and-video media from their respective regions. Stories like “Sports Illustrated on Brickhouse and Union” are scattered throughout the website.

Still, others use the board to keep up on specifics regarding Davidson Athletics. The baseball page contains threads devoted to
discussions of several of the team's games. The men's basketball page has topics titled “Will hoops cause admissions problems?” and
“2008-2009 Season Goals.” The page dedicated to women's basketball already has several threads about next season.

The board's users also take advantage of the forum-based website to organize carpools to distant games, none bigger than the
matches this past weekend in Detroit. Many students and alumni turned to DavidsonCats.com not only to look for transportation to
various tournaments but for tickets and lodging information as well.

Many of the users on the message board are current or former Davidson students, but that is not all. Fans
of other teams (Southern Conference as well as non-conference opponents) and community members make up a large portion of users.

The website is maintained independently of Davidson College. Its three moderators have the usernames “Bill Cobb,” “David Sink,” and “Derek
Smith.” Yours truly is a user on the board, as is one of the editors for this very newspaper. Kevin
Cary, one of the sportswriters for The Charlotte Observer, is a frequent browser and poster on the website. The board
does not advertise; its publicity is entirely through word-of-mouth.

Because of this website, readers get the opportunity to learn more about the different kinds of Wildcat fans. We all
know that those who wear the red and black are loyal to this institution and its athletics, and this message
board further proves that.

By and large, those supporting the ‘Cats are passionate yet understanding, expressive yet polite, and most important of all, they
serve as a constant reminder of the pride all of Davidson's athletics programs have brought to this college and community.

For those who support any and all Wildcats athletics, it is definitely worth the effort to browse (better yet, join!)
this message board. Start a conversation with some of the posters. Tell them “Johnson” sent you.

Anjan Mukherjee ‘09 is a Music major from Chevy Chase, Md. Contact him at anmukherjee@davidson.edu.

Seen and heard on campus: Davidson perspectives
Who is your favorite Davidson basketball player and why?

Thomas Sander because of the way he has played through injuries.
Joe Reed ’08

I’m going to go with Steve Rossiter because he has the heart of a lion.
Jordan Cole ’10

Stephen Curry because he’s an ‘average’ shooter.
Peter Shelton ’11

I really like Bryant Barr. Bryant did a really great job in the game. His shot is really good.
Jennifer Jones ’10

Stephen Curry because he destroyed Georgetown.
Miguel Rodriguez ’09

Thomas Sander because he is a fantastic sport.
Sarah Frey ’08

Bob McKillop without a doubt. He is a fox.
Libby Van Wagenen ’10

He is a hottie.
Claire Peterson ’10

I like Boris the best because I’ve had several French classes with him and he’s really thoughtful when it comes
to literature and politics. I’m not sure if people know that about him.
Richmond Blake ’09

I don’t know. I love them all. Mostly the team as a whole is amazing.
Nick Jennison ’11

Andrew Lovedale because he always shows intense passion and vigor while he’s playing but at the same time he always
seems to be enjoying himself.
Nami Patel ’11
