i. | DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Davidson students group, Off Main, give the Royal Shakespeare Company a warm welcome this past Tuesday night in the Union Atrium.

M.L.K. and a ‘Dream Deferred’
By Curt SMITH
Staff Writer

“People need to hear the truth, not the pretty truth, but the ugly truth that makes people get up and do something.” This quote by Huey Freeman from the television cartoon “The Boondocks” embodies the forthright nature of the riveting symposium, “The Return of the King: A Montage of a Dream Deferred.” Conducted by Darrel Scott ’10 and Solvig Pittenger ’06, the Monday afternoon event addressed the portrayal of African-Americans in our country after attendees watched an episode of “The Boondocks.”

The cartoon, an animated television series on the Cartoon Network’s “Adult Swim,” satirizes the racial tensions and cultural stereotypes that exist within the social fabric of American society today. The episode aired during the seminar, titled “Return of the King,” focused on a hypothetical scenario in which Martin Luther King, Jr. wakes from a coma only to find American, and particularly African-American, culture completely different than he left it 32 years earlier. King experiences a resurgence in popularity and subsequently signs a book deal, receives massive media coverage, and even appears on television talk shows. On one such show, King is asked how he believes America should react to the 9/11 terrorism attacks. King responds that America should turn the other cheek. In the episode, the public is shocked that King would act so passively in the wake of such an attack. The negative reaction he gets ultimately leads “Time Magazine” to put him on the front cover with the headline “Traitor?”

At this point, Scott paused the film and asked the crowd for opinions thus far. Many students agreed that while comedy is an effective means of dealing with important issues, it is unfortunate that such important issues should have to be coated with humor to be discussed.

See Dream, page 3

Students return from study abroad, page 2
MLK, Jr. Day sparks discussion, page 4
“Yow! Kris Kringle gets DUI, page 5
“Condoment” a big hit, page 5

Arts
Warner girls shorten showers, page 6
Audrey dishes love advice, page 7

Perspectives
Conflict in Darfur, page 8
Failures of free speech board, page 9

Sports
Track team takes on UNC, page 10
Basketball teams soar in SoCon, page 12

And don’t forget to check out the online edition...

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2008

By Nina MACE
Staff Writer

Next fall, the Class of 2012 will be able to participate in a new program called Cats Connect. Cats Connect is a mentorship program linking newly arrived freshmen to upperclassmen in an effort to strengthen the community of Davidson. Freshmen that sign up for the program will be matched with a same-sex mentor, and each mentor-mentee pair will be organized into four-person “families.” These families will be required to participate in a service project for a minimum of one weekend per semester. However, they may choose to meet more frequently.

The program was the brainchild of three students: Neely Meeks ’09, Heath Pelham ’10, and Abi Johnson ’10 during a leadership retreat last year. At the retreat, groups of students participated in an activity where they were invited to design a program in response to an editorial written in response to the Virginia Tech tragedy. Meeks, Pelham, and Johnson came up with Cats Connect and were so excited about it that they decided to work on the project beyond the retreat. The students consulted Dean of Students Tom Shandley and worked together on the project over the summer.

“We had a great vibe about it—an overall excitement,” Pelham said. Cats Connect is now a chartered organization with an executive board.

First Class U.S. Postage Paid
PERMIT #1
Davidson, NC

VOLUME 99, NUMBER 13Advisory board and plans to implement the program next year. Each incoming freshman will be mailed a letter about the program in the fall and given the option to sign up for it. It will also be publicized during Freshman Orientation. There is no limit to the number of freshmen that may participate. After committing to the program, mentors and mentees will be matched using the Myers-Briggs test as well as a survey. The pairs

See Connect, page 2

‘Four’ highlights risk
By ALISSA CURRAN
News Editor

On Tuesday, Jan. 15, many fraternity and eating house members attended a sex-specific presentation on sexual assault in Duke Auditorium. The presentation was given by the non-profit organization “One in Four,” a name that represents one in four college women surviving rape or attempted rape. The organization was founded by a group of college friends upon their graduation, and “One in Four” now travels to many colleges and universities annually to raise awareness about sexual assault.

On a sleepy college campus such as Davidson’s, where most students can recognize a stranger immediately because it is not a familiar face from around campus, this presentation seemed absurd. Most popular notions of rape include strangers confronting women walking alone in dark alleys. However, Davidson’s intimate and trusting environment does not exempt it from incidents of sexual assault. The “One in Four” presentation stated that nearly four out of five times a woman is raped it is by someone she knows, a scary reality on a campus where the comfortability of everyone knowing everyone does not provide protection from this scary statistic.

“There is no perfect solution to rape: when people choose to do it, it often happens,” one of the “One in Four” presenters said. “However, you can help yourself and your friends by learning to identify high-risk situations and how to help someone if you know he or she is a victim of sexual assault.”

As an introduction, the presentation provided the audience with a basic definition of rape and explained that the definition varies from campus to campus and state to state. Mental capacity plays an important role in determining rape because it specifies whether someone can understand the consequences of the sexual action at the time it occurs.

The second part of the presentation included a video in which a doctor was shown interviewing a male who had committed an act of sexual assault on a woman who never reported the incident. The incident occurred at a fraternity party, before which brothers conceptualized girls as easy targets and made a “special punch” for them with copious amounts of alcohol. After this particular individual coerced a younger girl into drinking too much punch, he ignored her attempts to stop him and raped her. The presenters highlighted the attitude and rhetoric of this particular rapist as common amongst sexual predators.

“In using words like ‘targets,’ ‘prey,’ and ‘stake out,’ he is dehumanizing his victims,” one of the presenters noted. Another influence that encouraged this individual was the group mentality of his fraternity. Due to the fact that all the other brothers were engaging in the same acts in the same manner, he felt what he did was justifiable.

The last segment of the presentation helped the audience learn how to help a friend who is a victim of sexual assault. “Only five percent of all rapes are reported,” one presenter noted. “The best thing you can do for a friend who is a victim of sexual assault is to talk less and listen more. It’s natural to be curious and to want to ask questions, but it will help your friend a lot more if you just listen.”

What Men Can Do
Health advisors, Sam Hotchkiss ‘08 and Evan Kreutzer ‘08, speak to Davidson students during 1 in 4.