4 Tre DAVIDSONIAN

Wi-fi, from page 1

— College-owned and personal — to join the network with the normal Davidson username and password.”

Another concern of students was that certain areas of the school, especially the lower floors of Martin Court apartments, were not getting a satisfactory wireless signal. This problem, according to Muchane, was due to compromises that were reached when putting in the wireless network last year. When Davidson contracted with a consulting company for blueprints on where to locate wireless access points, campus aesthetics prevented wireless access points from being put in some of the optimal locations. Starting last week, however, this problem has begun to be solved. New wireless access points are being mounted in Martin Court and will improve wireless access in the senior apartments. They should be completed by the end of October.

ITS also upgraded Davidson’s Internet bandwidth in March by 50 percent, going from 42 to 62 megabits per second. A second upgrade later this semester or early next semester will further improve connectivity speed to 85 megabits per second. Muchane envisions that within 12 to 14 months the bandwidth will reach as high as one gigabit per second. This will allow network users to access some websites more quickly, but websites from slower servers will be restricted by the bandwidth of those servers.

Muchane adds that further improvements to the Davidson Wireless network are being added and will be added in the near future. These include a new wireless specification, N, that will be available in the library and the union. According to Muchane, students who have computers that support N specifications will see great connection improvements in those areas.

Muchane emphatically states that Information Technology Services is always interested in working closely with students. He adds that ITS is very committed to making sure that if there is a place that is getting weak or no connectivity, they will fix it. Students can report these gaps in the wireless network by sending an e-mail to helpdesk@davidson.edu. “We are here to work with students,” Muchane said. “There is no problem that is too small or too big for us to attend to.”

Thirty-four states voting early

CLINT SMITH
Staff Writer

With less than two weeks left until Nov. 4, people in 34 states and the District of Columbia have been heading to the polls to take advantage of the early voting process. North Carolina is no exception. In an election that has already seen history made in numerous ways, the early voting process looks set to hit some record-breaking numbers itself. Experts believe that over one-third of the electorate will engage in early voting, up from 15 percent in 2000 and 20 percent in 2004.

With North Carolina being such a highly contested battleground state this election, Presidential nominees Barack Obama and John McCain have been fervently encouraging their supporters to vote early. Many pundits believe that with his grassroots movement taking the lead, Obama holds the advantage in regards to early voting. Many believe that it may be early voting that gives him the cushion he needs to hold off any late surge from McCain.

Already, as of Monday night, nearly 400,000 people had voted early in North Carolina, an unprecedented amount considering that the polls have been open for less than a week. According to North Carolina Board of Elections, approximately 60 percent of voters thus far have been registered Democrats, 20 percent registered Republicans and 20 percent registered Independents. However, around 70,000 people have also mailed in absentee ballots from other states and countries, with Republicans outnumbering Democrats by a margin of two to one.

Early voting’s obvious advantage is that it makes voting more convenient and accessible to citizens by offering various times and locations for people to cast their ballot. Additionally, many argue that early voting is beneficial because it allows administrators more time to process ballots. It also cuts down on long lines and decreases the number of poll workers needed on Election Day.

But the process has not necessarily been smooth sailing for everyone in North Carolina. After an Obama rally in Fayetteville, NC, supporters flocked to the polls to take advantage of the early voting. Once they arrived however, they were met by a group of heckling protestors. While the protest was seemingly non-violent and legal in nature, at least 30 Obama supporters claimed that their tires were slashed when they got back to their cars.

With so many Davidson students now registered in North Carolina, early voting may be the best for those who may have something come up at the last minute to prevent them from going to the polls on Nov. 4. The best place for Davidson students to go and vote early is at the local Cornelius Library, located at 21105 Catawba Ave., a less than five minute drive from campus.

Joshua Arthur ’12, believes that everyone should take advantage of the early voting process. “Early voting is a tool to help reduce a lot of the discrepancy and mistakes that have been made in the past concerning votes being miscounted or not counted at all,” he said. “Every student should try and make it.To the polls before Nov. 4.”

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2008

Prof speaks on wartime Memphis

MIKE ANDERSON
Staff Writer

Margaret Storey, a DePaul University professor, gave a lecture on the unique North-South tensions in post-Civil War Memphis in the 900 Room of the Alvarez College Union Sunday night. She acknowledged that her research is a work in progress but gave a speech detailing Memphis in the 1860s.

Storey made clear that the North-South divisions were not quite as clear-cut as they seem; Memphis only reluctantly supported secession. Storey focused on the complex relationship between unrepentant Confederates and the federal army occupying the city and how people navigated loyalty and dissent.

The city was something of a paradox. On one hand, there was extensive socialization between Unionist soldiers and resident Southerners. Also, Memphis was more a mix of North and South than an extreme of either. Storey added that the city’s development was much more like Chicago’s than any Southern city’s. On the other hand, there was a strong undercurrent of resistance, which Storey explored in great detail. Memphis was often a dangerous place to live; soldiers and civilians alike were killed, although most murders were concentrated in the lower class levels of society—a soldier was much more likely to be killed in a brothel than at an upper-class dinner party.

Violence was not the only result of the city’s occupation; the city diversified greatly with the influx of Northerners, the economy boomed, and the population tripled, making Memphis the sixth largest city in the South. Many Union soldiers were taken aback by the sympathy felt for Southern rebels, the people who were supposed to be the enemy. Contact between the two groups could be very intimate—some Northerners even married the Southern women who were left with a significantly smaller pool of young Southern men in the post-war era.

However, Storey made clear that such friendly interactions were hardly universal. In fact, there was a massive migration of Northern prostitutes to Memphis, one of three cities that legalized prostitution at the time, because a segment of the federal army refused to touch Southern women. Those feelings seemed to be mutual as Storey revealed that many Southern women frequently played roles as spies and smugglers for the Confederacy.

Federal soldiers were often strongly discouraged from attending regular church services; separate services were created for them. Those new services were framed as being for young men, but most young men in the city were Northern soldiers. The soldiers who did attend the regular mass were often pressured to leave before receiving the Eucharist.

The Union heavily regulated Memphis’ economy and encouraged citizens to come back to their home city to increase trade and inspire confidence in the federal army and the Union. According to Storey, it is apparent that those rules were effective. Even though the cotton trade dipped, production of other goods, such as those for the military, skyrocketed. The city was quickly converted into a depot for Union troops and an even bigger center of trade.

Over time this trend continued, developing Memphis into the city it is today. Now known for Beale Street Blues, Memphis’ Civil War past contrasts its current climate of soulful music and food.

ABERNETHY AWARDS APPLICATIONS DUE 10/30/08

Again this year, funds from the George L. Abernethy Endowment will be available to support worthy initiatives by current first-year, sophomore, or junior students. [It is also possible to fund a senior who expects to complete all research work prior to graduation.] Individual awards fall into one of the following categories:

1. Independent student research, either in the US or abroad.
2. Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year or the summer.

Jim’s career-long track record of achieving successful results for his clients has earned him recognition throughout NC and among his peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named to the Best Lawyers in America publication consistently for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of the Top 100 Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina. As a former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the State for his commitment to justice and his exceptional litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience, he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people who have been injured by the negligent or criminal conduct of others. Jim’s areas of practice include Personal Injury Settlements, Mediations & Trials, General Civil Litigation for Individuals and Business, Condemnation, and Appeals.

At the request of the donor, applications are limited to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences. Application forms are available in the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283). Completed application forms are due back in this office no later than 5:00 pm on Thursday, October 30, 2008. The announcement of awards should occur prior to the exam period of the fall semester.