---

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2008

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 5

Tyler Kirkland ‘09 and Andrew Lovedale ‘09 were crowned at last weekend’s homecoming game.

Forum examines economy, politics as crisis unfolds

KATE KELLY
News Editor

Gathering in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room on Monday evening, the Young Democrats and College Republicans sponsored their second Political Connection Discussion. Monday’s discussion centered on the topic of the economy and its role in the upcoming presidential election.

A more appropriate topic could not have been chosen as Monday signaled one of the major turning points in our country’s current economic crisis. On Monday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 777.68 points (6.98%), the largest point decline in the history of the Dow. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq experienced significant losses as well, creating the largest declines for major market indices since 1987.

This unforeseen dip in the Dow came as a shock to the two featured panelists: Dr. Clark Ross, Vice President for Academic Affairs, Dean of Faculty and the Frontis W. Johnston Professor of Economics, and Dr. Fred Smith, Associate Professor of Economics. Both panelists admitted that they went to bed Sunday night expecting the Congressional Bailout Bill to pass and the markets to regain lost ground on Monday.

This economic shock facing our country stems from a combination of factors, the largest being the lack of federal regulation of new economic instruments (i.e. mortgage packages). The United States’ focus on home ownership pressures many individuals into signing up for mortgage packages without fully understanding their ramifications.

Smith shared that as he recently went through buying a new home in Davidson, he had some questions about the paperwork as well. “Even as a Ph.D. economist, these markets are very complicated,” Smith said.

The complexity in the new mortgage markets puts many Americans at risk for falling victim.

See Economy page 3

Labyrinth proposal geared to relieve stress

Maura McGinn
Staff Writer

Students at Davidson College are well acquainted with stress. Although many have already developed their own tactics to manage anxieties, a new outlet will soon become available for the Davidson community in the form of a labyrinth.

On Sunday evening, in a discussion themed “Life is not Linear,” College Chaplain Robert Spach ‘84, Lauren Cunningham ‘09 and Dr. Trisha Senterfitt, spoke in the 900 Room about Davidson’s plans to build the stress-reliever.

Guest speaker Senterfitt received her doctorate in Ministry from Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur and wrote her dissertation on labyrinths.

She claimed that the 180-degree turns made when taking a labyrinth relieve stress.

For this reason, the benefits of a labyrinth walk exceed those of a standard walk down Main Street.

She suggested that the act of walking a labyrinth engages the right side of the brain, the side that manages creativity and imagination.

A student reflects in the temporary labyrinth in the Union.

The labyrinth aims to reduce stress and promote creativity.

In doing this, a balance is created between the right side and the left, which, on the other hand, is utilized most frequently by the typical college student bogged down by mathematical equations and essays.

Senterfitt cited the success of labyrinths in the treatment of patients with neurological disorders due to this balance in brain function.

Furthermore, she said she believes so firmly in the importance of the labyrinth that her husband constructed one in their backyard.

She finds comfort in walking the labyrinth to reflect, to give thanks and to relax.

Senterfitt has lofty goals for the Davidson labyrinth. She envisions some students taking regular meditative walks and others utilizing the structure around more stressful times such as exam period.

See Labyrinth, page 2

GreenPrint Initiative to address waste management

FRANCISCO FIALLO
Staff Writer

The Student Government Association announced the GreenPrint Initiative, an effort to improve the environmental impact of the college’s operations, at its meeting last Thursday. The initiative is a collaborative effort between the Environmental Action Coalition (EAC), the Buildings and Grounds Committee and Sustainability Fellow Kealy Devoy ‘08.

Under the leadership of Sonia Huang ‘10, the initiative has identified four areas of concern: paper, utilities, recycling, and edibles. She said she hopes to begin substantial work on measuring and reducing waste generated in those areas. As that work progresses, GreenPrint will also be introducing a series of flyers and social artwork intended to raise students’ awareness of waste and its repercussions.

Fountain Walker, Chief of Campus Safety, also attended the meeting to respond to any lingering concerns over the behavior of campus safety officers at Martin Court during and after First Night Down. He urged students to provide prompt feedback should any future incidents occur, so that any improper behavior could be addressed.

He also pointed out that students’ concerns were not new or unusual and that both students and officers would acclimate to proper enforcement of the alcohol policy. In response to a question over what appeared to be a large number of officers present at Martin Court, Walker replied that there has always been one officer present for every 100 students expected to be at registered parties.

See SGA page 3

---

Field hockey splits weekend

See SPORTS, PAGE 11