10 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2008

’Cats win in final seconds
Hockey drops two
Ray Francis
Staff Writer

The ’Cats trailed 16-13 with less than a minute to play, but Justin Williams ’11 scored on a one-yard touchdown
run with 18 seconds left against Lenoir-Rhyne to lift the Wildcats to a dramatic 20-16 victory.

“We found a way to win this week by making plays when we had to,” quarterback Ryan Alexander ’09 said.

Alexander ’09 led Davidson with 218 yards passing and a touchdown, including 54 yards passing on the final drive. Kirk
Konert ’09 added 100 yards on six receptions while Kirk Benedict ’10 led the Wildcat ground game with 42 yards
on six carries. Daniel Hauffe ’10 again led the Wildcat defense with 13 tackles (four for a loss). Hauffe’s performance
earned him Pioneer Football League Defensive Player of the Week honors. Brandon Yeargan ’11 recovered two fumbles and forced another
while Williams also contributed a 40-yard punt return on special teams.

“This was a huge win for us,” Yeargan added.

Davidson needed a victory to avoid an 0-2 start heading into conference play and to erase the bad taste of
a season-opening defeat against UNC-Pembroke. The team is now 1-1.

The Wildcat defense dominated in the first quarter, refusing to allow the Bears a first down and giving the offense
prime field position when Yeargan forced and recovered a fumble on the Lenoir-Rhyne 17.

Ryan Alexander ’09 passed for 218 yards and a touchdown in the ’Cats 20-16 victory at Lenoir-Rhyne.

Football (1-1)
Results:
9/13 @ Lenoir-Rhyne W 20-16
Next Up:
9/27 vs. Jacksonville
Notes: The Wildcats have a bye week before hosting PFL foe Jacksonville in the Homecoming game on September 27th.

Field Hockey (2-4)
Results:
9/12 @ Longwood L 2-5
9/13 vs. Towson L 0-3
Next Up:
9/20 vs. Longwood
9/21 vs. Wake Forest
Notes: After dropping two games in Virginia, the ’Cats return home for a rematch with Longwood and a non-conference match
with Wake Forest.

Alexander found Konert for a 13-yard touchdown on the final play of the quarter to give the ’Cats the early
lead. The Wildcats led 7-0 at the half, but found themselves down 10-7 entering the fourth quarter after the Bears
switched to a no-huddle offense. Kenny Mantuo scored on a one-yard plunge that gave Davidson a 13-10 lead after the
extra point was blocked with 12:10 remaining in the game. Lenoir-Rhyne answered with Andrew Courman’s seven-yard touchdown run with 3:53
remaining, but the Bears also failed to convert the extra point, setting the stage for the heroics of Alexander and
Williams.

Alexander hit wide receiver Mark Hanabury ’11 for 16 yards on fourth-and-six to keep the drive alive before a Bears
pass interference penalty gave Davidson the ball on the Lenoir-Rhyne two-yard line. Three plays later, Williams scored the winning touchdown.
Williams was initially stopped, but bounced it outside and outraced the defense to the pylon. Wildcat coach Tripp Merritt had
planned to throw on third down, but “our guys said no way. They said if we run the ball, we’ll
score and that’s what we did.”

Peter Bakke ’10 intercepted a Bears pass immediately following Williams’ score to ice the victory.

“The last drive was great for our confidence,” Alexander said, “We only needed a field goal to tie, but we
drove 80 yards in less than four minutes for a touchdown. I don’t think the coaches wanted to see the
game go to overtime either. They put us in a position to win and our players got it done.”

Merritt concurred, saying that he wanted to win the game in regulation and not leave anything to chance in overtime.
Although Lenoir-Rhyne picked up 206 yards on the ground, Davidson still held them well below their average of 330 yards
per game rushing. The Wildcats also held the Bears to 5-16 passing with three interceptions.

Merritt said that the Wildcats will spend their bye week working on special teams and fundamentals. Although there are always
things that could be improved, Merritt says he is happy with where his team is at this point in the
season. The Wildcats hope to get a little more production from their ground game, but Merritt was quick to point
out that a big factor in the lack of production this week was the fact that Lenoir-Rhyne had eight defenders
in the box for most of the game.

Davidson will now have a bye week before opening league play with their Homecoming Game against Jacksonville.

Kris Hendershot
Staff Writer

The Davidson field hockey team traveled four hours north to Longwood University’s campus in Farmville, Virginia, where they battled the
Longwood Lancers and the Towson Tigers last weekend. The Wildcats lost to Longwood University 5-2 Friday.Evening. The Lancers were their
first NorPac Conference opponent of the season. The goals for the Wildcats were scored by midfielders Kathelijn van der Ven
’12 and Krista Jackson ’12. Van der Ven was the NorPac Rookie of the Week last week and Friday she
scored her second career goal. She also leads the team with six points this year. Jackson’s goal was her first
and came in her first action of the year. Goalie Christa Goeke ’10 recorded three saves in the valiant effort.
The ’Cats displayed great toughness after the Lancers scored the first goal of the game as they responded with a
goal of their own. Even upon defeat, the team showed character and was determined to stay in the game and
come from behind. The loss snapped a two-game winning streak and dropped Davidson’s record to 2-3.

On Saturday, the Wildcats took on an undefeated non-conference opponent in the Towson Tigers. Davidson was shut out in this
game 3-0, although the score is misleading. The ’Cats played a better game against Towson than they did against Longwood.
Steph Meador ’12 was assigned the task of marking Towson star Christina Boarman and was able to shut her down.
Davidson played a tough game and an especially good first half. Goeke performed amazingly and tried her best to keep
the game close. She recorded a season-high ten saves. Towson had 19 shots on goal and 14 penalty corners to
Davidson’s ten shots and six penalty corners. After a scoreless 34 minutes, the Tigers scored three unanswered goals, putting the
game out of reach for the Wildcats. Even in the defeat, many players for the Wildcats had great performances. On
the offensive side of the field, van der Ven and forward Gray Robinson ’12 shared the team lead with three
shots each. Midfielder Clare Perry ’11 had two shots on goal to keep the pressure on the Tigers. The Towson
Tigers improved to 5-0 while the Wildcats fell to 2-4 with the tough loss. When asked about the weekend’s performance,
Meador proclaimed, “We worked hard but in the end it did not pay off.” The Wildcats have a home rematch
against the Longwood Lancers this Saturday at 1 p.m. The Wildcats will also play on Sunday against the Wake Forest
Demon Deacons at 3 p.m. at home.

Yanks’ formula for failure
Curtis YOUNG
Staff Writer

Take a look at the Major League Baseball standings. You'll find an American League East Division that seems turned upside
down. At the top sit the small-market Tampa Bay Rays, followed closely by the Boston Red Sox. Next has to
be the Yankees, right? Wrong, the Yankees have slipped all the way to fourth place, with the Toronto Blue Jays
climbing into third. The Yankees, with a payroll surpassing 200 million dollars, are on the verge of missing the playoffs
for the first time in over a decade. Their demise, though, began several seasons ago, when the free-spending front office
lost its direction in free agency. They have mapped out the formula for failure: how to turn a 200 million
dollar payroll into a middle-of-the-pack ball club. With limitless financial resources, their own television network, and the allure of New
York City life, it seems as though the Yankees have little excuse for this season’s disappointment. Sure, the team has
had a run of bad luck, with ace pitcher Chien-Ming Wang going out for the season in the midst of
a myriad of other injuries. With its talent and money, New York still should have been able to withstand these
issues. New York’s front office caused this season’s failures when they abandoned their policy of putting the best talent on
the roster, regardless of the cost — both athletic and monetary. After a tremendous run that culminated in their latest
World Series victory in 2000, the Yankees began spending.

See Failure, page 11

Men’s Soccer (1-5-0)
Results:
9/13 vs. High Point L 2-3
9/16 @ #21 Duke L 0-2
Next Up:
Charlotte Tournament
9/19 vs. UAB
9/21 vs. Winthrop
Notes: Alex Caskey ’11 had a 3-2 loss to High Point.

Women’s Soccer (2-1-3)
Results:
9/12 @ Harvard L 1-2
9/14 @ Providence PPD
Next Up:
9/21 vs. UNCW
Notes: Stephanie Gerow ’12 scored her second goal of the season, but the ’Cats lost their first game of the
season 2-1 at Harvard.

Volleyball (3-6)
Results:
9/12 vs. Charlotte W 3-2
9/13 vs. George Mason L 1-3
9/13 vs. Rutgers W 3-0
Next Up:
9/19 vs. St. Francis
9/20 vs. High Point
9/20 @ University at Buffalo
Notes: The ’Cats opened their home schedule with two wins in the Mizuno Classic at Belk Arena.

Men’s and Women’s Cross Country
Next Up:
9/20 Winthrop Invitational
Notes: After a week off, the teams return to the course this week at the Winthrop Invitational in South Carolina.
