THE DAVIDSONIAN

This semester with the RSC
By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

The Royal Shakespeare Company has officially arrived on campus from across the pond for the final season in their 2004-2008
Davidson College residency. A highly anticipated event and part of Davidson's commitment to the Fine Arts Program, the residency provides
students, faculty, and the public a rare opportunity to experience theater through performances of the gifted troupe and the words
of accomplished affiliates and speakers. Here is a quick introduction to the RSC and what's in store this season:

- The troupe consists of 10 actors: 5 from the UK and the remaining from the US. They are directed
by Roxana Silbert.
- British playwright Rona Munro arrived January 20th with a preliminary script, which will be developed into a creative, new
play here at Davidson, inspired by the Cold War.
- Three 'Work-In-Progress' performances will be given by the RSC February 15-17 in the Duke Family Performance Hall. Performance times
are: Friday, February 15th at 7:30 p.m., Saturday, February 16th at 7:30 p.m., and Sunday, February 17th at 2 p.m.
- The college will be hosting a symposium entitled “Imagining History: Shakespeare and His Legacy."
- Pulitzer Prize winner Edward Albee, author of 'Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?', will be speaking to the public the
morning of February 16th. Among other speakers are writer and literary critic Thomas Mallon, Phyllis Rackin, Laurence Senelick, and Mary
Karen Dahl. Panel discussions and lectures are open to the public but performances require tickets.
- Tickets go on sale to the general public Monday, January 28th. Prices and locations will vary.

ARTS & LIVING
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2008

7

Ask Audrey: a new chance for love
By AUDREY
Staff Writer

Dear all:

Welcome to a new semester of sexy dating advice! Just as with Ray-Ban sunglasses (and baby, they’re back and hotter
than ever!), the time is ripe to revive the dating culture at Davidson. I want to do my best to
contribute to healthy attitudes and an informed approach to dating. I think each of us can find and feel great
about someone special, especially with Valentine’s Day just around the corner.

For those of you who may have missed our previous columns, “Ask Audrey” addresses various aspects of Davidson dating and
social life. I hope to improve romantic life on campus through my advice and opinions, and I welcome each of
you to share any of your own comments as well. I am here to answer your questions, so please write
me with any kind of concern.

What questions might you ask? Well, just about anything you need to know, from how to approach a crush to
how to ask a girl out for a date to how to maintain a long-term or long-distance relationship. Beyond these
straightforward inquiries, feel free to ask me anything exciting or juicy, even if it is of an intimate nature. I
am open to relationships across the orientation spectrum. I address questions and concerns about straight, gay, and bisexual relationships equally.
I have personal experience in many areas of dating, and I routinely call upon a rich resource of friends and
qualified professionals at the Health Center, so I am fully prepared to answer.Anything you might ask. Good times to be
had with a special group. Cozy up to someone special. E-mail questions to AskAudrey33@gmail.com. I promise to maintain your anonymity.
I also love hearing about your own dating experiences. In fact, I am in the process of writing a column
comprised of your own stories (with altered names, of course!). Here's your homework: What is the most bizarre date you
have ever experienced? Did it better the relationship or kill it? Please send your answers to the e-mail address above,
and you may find your story printed anonymously in my article.

To start the semester, I want to discuss a topic that is troublesome on any college campus: the inevitable dating
tug-of-war. Imagine a giant mud pit with a group of friends yanking one end of the rope, and a girlfriend/boyfriend
grasping the other end. Who will end up in the mud? I have seen so many people in relationships struggle
to divide their time between friends and the significant other. Coping strategies vary tremendously, but the sticky situation commonly results
in ditched friends and a hip attachment with the better half.

So if you find yourself having way too many routine dinners at Bonsai (honestly, rice and seaweed quickly lose their
charm), switching back to meeting your girlfriends at the eating house might be a healthy move. And from a male’s
perspective, it is never the best idea to spend hours on end with your girlfriend, no matter WHAT you are
doing with her. And please, don't forget about the Giants game with the guys. You might be perpetuating an imbalance
because you think your friends will never leave you. Think again: they have feelings, too. No one appreciates being dumped.

If you are leaving your friends in the mud, they will probably clue you in. If you don’t pick up
on their hints, go out of your way to ask them how you make them feel. Their responses may be
indirect, but consider things from their point of view and pay attention to the underlying message. You'll all enjoy watching
a few episodes of The Office together, sans the love interest.

It may seem impossible to maintain a healthy balance between best friends and boyfriends, but I have a friend who
has done so with grace and consideration. By simply respecting everyone in her life and determining to spend time with
everyone she cares about, she has managed to enjoy both wonderful friendships and a blossoming romance. It can be done!
Your friends will thank you, and in the end, so will your significant other.

In all areas of life, especially dating, it is vital to strike a harmonious balance. Yes, this takes work (and
practice) to master, but as long as you realize the importance of giving time and thought to all of your
relationships, I can assure you that you are heading in the right direction. So, however you decide to divide your
time, whether it's spending Friday night with your friends and Saturday night with your objet d’amour, or any other arrangement,
do what you can to avoid a messy tug-of-war.

Courtesy photo

Don’t get caught between friends and love.
