THE DAVIDSONIAN

Show, from page 1

I definitely “voluntold” to do it. Anyone can be a writer for The Davidson Show, though. Just shoot me an email and we’ll let you know when the next party happens. There will be candy and punch.

CS: Which show that you have made so far is your favorite? Why?

AB: I would say overall my favorite show has been our latest one, because I feel like we're getting consistently better. However, I hold a special affinity for the Game Show night commercial, the Jackson Court segment, and the Team Davidson Show's domination of Davidson Basketball in pickup 2-on-2.

“You take 10 average Davidson students and put them in a room with seven Olive Garden breadsticks, and three people are going to get killed.” -Austin Bell

CS: That episode did receive a lot of positive feedback... although it might have just been the free chicken. Speaking of which, how did you decide on Chick-Fil-A as the food for your premieres? Were there any other choices before this one came about?

AB: I once ran into a guy in Chambers who said he couldn’t come to the show because he had to study for a test. I then mentioned to him there would be free Chick-Fil-A, and he pondered it, and responded that he probably would be there, because free Chick-Fil-A was better than getting 5-8 extra points on a test. Originally, we were trying to offer free Olive Garden. That didn’t work; that stuff’s like crack. You take 10 average Davidson students and put them in a room with seven Olive Garden breadsticks, and three people are going to get killed. So we switched to Chick-Fil-A. So far it’s gotten us pretty good turnout, and we’ve had a lot less casualties at the premieres.

CS: Well that’s a relief. Don’t you hold an official position with the College Communications Department?

AB: Indeed I do. I work as a student photographer for Bill Giduz.

CS: Does this help you with what you’re trying to do with the show?

AB: Definitely. It’s given me a good idea of what not to put in the show, such as encounters between alums and frolickers.

CS: I’m sure a lot of students are reassured in hearing that. In closing, what can students expect to see from the next show?

AB: I don’t know if I’m allowed to tell you this, but on the next episode of “Naked at the Movies,” the reviewers will no longer be sporting the waist-down body paint, knee-high stockings, and oversized bowling shoes that they have been seen in on previous episodes.

Vietnam vet returns to campus, shares memories

By BIANCA MITCHELL
Staff Writer

Boredom, total misery, sick humor, fear, anger, revenge, panic, stark terror, and impending doom. Lee Sargent, former Event Management and Ticket Sales Coordinator of the Baker Sports Complex, listed these words to describe his experience as an officer in the Vietnam War. Sargent shared his experience with Professor Ralph Levering’s U.S. History class last Wednesday afternoon.

Sargent is a Harvard graduate who excelled in three sports during his collegiate career. During his freshman year, tragedy struck when his father passed away suddenly. He wanted to join the Marines, like his father, so he enrolled in the Platoon Leadership Course (PLC) of the U.S. Marines. His smart decision paid off, literally. Not only did Sargent earn a salary, but after only two years in service after his graduation from college, he was made a captain.

During 1965 and much of 1966, Sargent served as an officer in this landmark war. The war was the first to be fought without lines, using a guerilla style of fighting. Closer to home, for the first time the media was playing a major part in the war. Sargent brought up an example of this as he discussed Walter Cronkite’s influential and controversial comments regarding the war media.

Sargent also went into what it is like to be a soldier in the war. The most fearful times for the Artillery FO Captain were dusk and dawn, when eyesight is hindered by the changing light of the sun. He described this as impersonalized fear, different from the personalized fear that came later when a stray bullet broke the chin strap of his helmet in battle. “My fear changed to anger when later a bullet was shot at my chinstrap.”This was because I knew that bullet was for me. This really angered me because I had a newborn son and I realized that these people wanted to kill me before I had a chance to see him,” Sargent said. This feeling of anger led to a desire for revenge that overtook many soldiers, leading them to break war laws. “It is hard to be trained for war,” Sargent said. “My survival tactic was to only plan for the next 30 seconds. I am trying to win the next thirty seconds.” Although none of these topics seem funny, Sargent’s good sense of humor helped lighten the mood of his subject matter. “The most miserable time of the trip was the 22-day boat ride over there [Vietnam]... Now we were captains so we had it good. The 80-foot waves that we encountered required us to have to strap ourselves into our bunks. If you didn’t strap yourself in, you would go flying all over the room,” Sargent said. Sargent said they coped because “everything was fair game and whatever was laughable was made a joke. We needed to laugh in order to relieve tension.” Sargent was able to return to America safely in late 1966 when he and his troop were rescued from a dire situation by a U.S.-controlled rescue force. Tears came to Sargent’s eyes as he said that he “will never be able to pay back the government that helped him.” After returning home, Sargent was a commander at Marine training camps for two years. Years later, he received a phone call informing him that the men that he trained had all survived the war. Sargent said that his overall feelings were of gratitude for the experiences that he has been offered through his service with the Marines. He shared that he lives every day with the skills he learned in the Marines and that he has gained something positive from each of the words he used to describe his experience.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 23, 2008

Catherine Clodfelter 09 showcases Straight Alliance tie-dye event

04/11/2008 11:06 a.m. Animal Control Call 201 Martin Ct. Dr.
On Friday, April 11th, an officer received a call regarding a raccoon near the baseball field area. The caller stated the raccoon had appeared to be sick because it was not afraid of people and was out during the daylight hours. The reporting officer informed the caller that animal control would be contacted and advised people to move out of the area. The reporting officer located the raccoon and stood by for animal control. The officer observed the raccoon enter the woods above the intramural field around 11:40 a.m. At 11:50 a.m., Cornelius Animal Control unit 190 arrived and removed the raccoon from campus.

04/11/2008 6:06 p.m. Other 207 Faculty Dr.
On Friday, April 11th, an officer was dispatched to Jackson Court in regard to a Davidson employee locking her keys inside of the office. The officer arrived and unlocked the office without incident. The employee’s keys were laying on the desk.

04/17/2008 12:03 a.m. Crime Prevention 100 Nelson Ln.
On Thursday, April 17th, an officer conducted foot patrol of Martin Court F. The officer observed several loud parties on the second and third floors. The officer went and cleared out some of the people and had the music turned down. The officer spoke with several of the students about graduation. The officer was able to clear out the areas without incident.

04/19/2008 8:30 p.m. Alarm Duke Dormitory
On Saturday, April 19th, an officer was dispatched to Duke Dormitory for a fire alarm activation on the first floor. Davidson Fire was also on scene. There was visible smoke coming from the kitchen area but no fire; someone had burned food on the stove. The fire alarm was reset and students were able to return back to the dorm.

04/21/2008 11:34 a.m. Improperly Parked Belk Parking Lot
On Monday, April 21, an officer called Archer’s Towing Service to tow away a 2004 Blue Honda Accord parked illegally at the Residence Life Office. The driver of the vehicle, a Davidson student, arrived just as the vehicle was about to be placed on the lift for towing. The vehicle owner advised the Archer’s employee that she would mail or deliver in person the service fee. The vehicle was then moved to a proper parking space.