5 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Michael Vick running shit in prison SEE PAGE 7 SEE PAGE 2 See Page 2 SEE PAGE 2

THE YOWL Your Davidsonian Humor Section Editors: James Boswell Alex Hoyt

On the seventh day, Ryan Robertson said, “I'll take it from here.” Feel free to help us out. Bring your
humor to the ninth green at nine and we will judge you.

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

Sit down on cd Ey UBL

Brickhouse Adds Depth to Davidson Bar Scene

Of the many fine local emporiums licensed in the sale of spirits, the sturdy yet modest “Brickhouse” may be the
best. With the rustic atmosphere of an abandoned warehouse, a staff of busty maidens, and a richly provincial clientele, this
drinkery truly evokes the pastoral hoppiness of the Carolinas. These 21-year-old students kick it in the 900 room, one of
many great local bars. You’ll be charmed by Mooresville swine, toothless vixens, and lonely seniors so socially nonexistent you thought
they had transferred years ago.

A mere stone’s throw from the Brickhouse is the 900 Room, the Union’s intimate conference center by day, watering hole
by night, where the school’s more bibulous seniors gather to indulge themselves in a few frothpuppies before hitting the books,
the sack or some of the other great local bars. If you feel like a night of pleasant condescension, try
the Korner Pub, where you can survey an entirely different milieu, one in which no one knows half as much
about Alexis de Tocqueville as you do.

O RTA the bed and Ill fill you in. NOT TO BE CONTINUED ISSUE UBERTAS- January 30, 2007

Men’s Basketball

Old Person Needs Water

Snapped by Monstars

After recent wins over The Citadel and the College of Charleston, the Davidson Men’s Basketball team was brought back to
earth with a crushing 96-60 defeat at the hands of the Monstars. At 19 feet 7 inches, Bang troubled Thomas
Sander all night long. He is believed to be the half-brother of UNC star Tyler Hansbrough.

The Monstars, a group of cartoonish aliens who landed on Earth in 1997 to enslave Looney Tunes as attendants for
their outer space amusement park, have not played competitively since they siphoned the skills of NBA stars like Larry Bird
and Patrick Ewing in the mid-90s. It is a popular misconception that the Monstars returned to Mars after being humbled
by Jordan and the Toons in Space Jam. In actuality, four of the five Monstars have

Mississippi Freshman’s Patriotism in Question

Regardless of your gender or interest in news, sports and pop culture, you've still probably heard that the New England
Patriots are undefeated heading into this weekend's Super Bowl match-up against the New York Giants. You've also probably noticed the
increasing number of Patriots jerseys, hats, and other paraphernalia around campus. The Pats bandwagon has rolled through Davidson, and it's
swooped up quite a few students along the way. I happen to have a Psych class with one of these
“fanatics,” a freshman who recently came to class wearing a brand new, pewter and blue Tedy Bruschi jersey. Skeptical of
his allegiance to New England despite his Southern accent, I approached him afterClass last week, I learned that he lives
in Mississippi, and when I pressed him for the reason he follows the Patriots, he delivered an automated response: “My
aunt's ex-boyfriend used to be a locker room attendant for the team.” Listen, buddy, whether or not this far-fetched excuse
is true, your aunt probably goes through six to seven boyfriends a year because she's in her forties and seriously
desperate. I'm sure she started dating this guy in November, after the Pats had crushed their first eight or nine
opponents and looked unbeatable. You saw that as an excuse to join the ranks of snobby New England fans (since
the closest teams to your hometown are the 'Aints and Falcons), and you bought the jersey that is most popular
among teenage girls. I don't care if you know the vitals on each second-string offensive lineman. So do eight-year-olds in
Japan. Do us all a favor and take off the jersey, soak it in kerosene, and light it on fire.
Better yet, keep the jersey on.

Pound, the orange heavyset Monstar who stole Charles Barkley’s skills, has been providing belligerent commentary for local broadcasts of high
school games in the Charlotte area. The Monstars got off to a great start by draining Steph Curry’s ability to
shoot from three-point range, as well as Jason Richard’s court vision. Blanko, the moronic blue Monstar, took Boris Meno’s height,
while his teammate Bang, the towering green inferno with a cleft chin and a flat top, took Bryant Barr’s prized
accolade of Mr. Basketball. Even Mehmet Civi’s break-dancing skills were appropriated by Bukpus, the goofy purple Monstar. Blanko paced the
Monstars with 42 points, while most of his teammates also reached double figures. Pound, upset over a dubious double-dribble call,
ate the referee late in the second half, at which point the game was abandoned. Several players of the pep
band, who began taunting the Monstars with numbers from the Space Jam soundtrack, were also consumed. A report from Officer
Jackson cited the Monstars as drunk and disorderly in the Outpost at 2:15 a.m. They responded by stealing his police
power and writing him up.

TUESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2008

Credit to Graduate After 65 years of pain, two failed marriages, three career changes, thousands of e-mails to and from
Hansford Epes, and a WebTree-induced torment, 87-year-old Horace Adams has finally enrolled in the biweekly water polo class he needs
in order to graduate. For years Adams had refused to sign up for the last PE credit he needed, purely
based on principle. As he indicated, “Didn’t need no gulldurn water credit to storm the beach at Normandy.” The PE
credit wasn’t all he needed, however. Horace also lacks a religion course, and he has enrolled in Death, Dying, and
the Afterlife. Students say his presence is a little disconcerting, but they also say that he adds an element of
realism and immediacy that otherwise would be lacking. “It would be especially profound if he would die sometime this semester,”
Religion Instructor Trey Fowler said. “His death would provide some great food for thought for the students’ reflection papers.”

Correlation Between Length of RSC Stay and Number of British Accents Affected Accents Mimicked
