4. THE DAVIDSONIAN

SGA and ATC set news precedent for loans

ALISSA CURRAN
News Editor

The agenda at this past week’s SGA meeting involved two issues that pertain to the freshman experience at Davidson College:
traditional orientation programs and the new mentor program, Cats Connect. The ATC also agreed to approve a loan request from
Androgyny.

Neely Meeks ’09, founder of Cats Connect, has started a new chartered mentorship program that she hopes will replace the
current “Big Brother-Big Sister” program. The program is currently in need of 465 members, due to the fact that the
administration has made the mentorship a requirement for every incoming freshman in the Class of 2012. Currently, the program is
struggling with recruiting volunteers. Meeks reiterated several times throughout the meeting that the pairs created through Cats Connect were not
meant to be forced relationships but instead “organic”.

“We do try and stress that this would be organic,” Meeks said. “It would be a once a month or
once every other month meeting, an hour; no longer, but with the relationship meeting once a week.”

Whitney White ’08 asked what would be done in the event that a pair is not compatible. Meeks replied that
the first year would be a learning process both for freshmen and the program itself.

“Within the first three weeks we’re going to have an online mentor evaluation, so if the first year has an
issue, we could create an entirely new family, or new assignment,” Meeks said.

The ultimate goal of the program is to generate genuine friendships across age groups on campus with a very low
time commitment.

“Ultimately our goal is that we might not have to send out these reminder emails because this is supposed to
be building a relationship,” said Heath Pelham ’10, another leader in Cats Connect.

The ATC was confronted with the question of a loan from Androgyny, who is in need of $5,000 so that
they can record a CD. The ATC has never given out a loan before, but they finally agreed to do
so on terms of conditionality. The ATC contacted a lawyer to draft a contract for the loan, stating that the
funds must be paid back in full. If Androgyny’s members cannot raise the money through fundraising and CD sales, they
are required to pay back the loan out of their personal funds. Members will not be allowed to graduate until
their loan is paid off. The loan was issued with zero interest.

The future of the Real Talk series on diversity was a topic of discussion at the meeting regarding how the
program can continue during this semester. A silent documentary to portray different perspectives regarding diversity was one of the proposed
ideas, a project to be headed by Austin Bell ’10. Members would also like to have Dr. Beverly Tatum, current
president of Spelman College and author of the book, “Why Do All the Black Kids Sit Together in the Cafeteria”
come and speak to the campus.

Another way to bring students together based on interest and regardless of background is a “Mega Mixer.” Students would write
down five interests on a card and be paired up with students who have similar interests. The event would be
a new addition to the freshman orientation program.

“It would be on a totally voluntary basis,” said Kim Bunting ’10. “So, if you wanted to meet someone who
was different from you, you could do that. We want to create the kind of newness we have when students
first come to Davidson and they interact with different people before forming cliques.”

Building off of diversity issues, newly elected vice-president Ali Karami-Ruiz ’09 provided clarification for his controversial campaign platform regarding the
STRIDE program for minority students during freshman orientation. Karami-Ruiz has expressed concern about the perception of STRIDE and International Orientation
on campus amongst non-participants. Ruiz believes that people who do not take part in those activities feel excluded from the
groups that form as a result of them.

Darrell Scott ’10 expressed dismay at Karami-Ruiz’s beliefs about STRIDE and the rhetoric he has chosen in voicing his opinions.
“You going down that road will create a lot more...problems than solutions,” Scott said to Karami-Ruiz. “That conversation was uncomfortable
for many. Students that look like me felt very uncomfortable. But the thing is you’ve never been in that place,
students already feel uncomfortable and you’re making them more uncomfortable.” Whitney White ’08 agreed with Scott, saying that Karami-Ruiz’s critique
of programs such as STRIDE was making students feel uncomfortable more than it was making any kind of progress. “The
problem is framing the conversation. By singling out STRIDE, you’re making it a divisive conversation,” she said. “If we want
to get at root issues, we can’t just single out one group, we have to make this a larger conversation...
When you first said that the ‘student body feels,’ you’re not talking about the whole student body. The students that
go to STRIDE make up a portion of the student body, what you’re talking about is the white student body.”
Davis Greene ’09, President of SGA, stressed post-meeting time that the conversation regarding STRIDE is aiming to inform students, not
reform the program. “We want to clarify for students what the purpose of these activities is,” Greene said. “There are
a lot of misconceptions amongst students who don’t know about them.” Greene also stressed that the purpose of all pre-orientation
events will be evaluated throughout the semester, not just STRIDE. “We really want to get the message across about STRIDE’s
purpose and what it is that we are trying to accomplish,” said Greene. “This is not the end of the
conversation.”

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2008

Although Perillo asserts that the campus police will need to have a justifiable reason to check a student’s identification, Chief
of Police Fountain Walker says the police will now treat Martin Court the same way they treat Patterson Court. “If
the officer encounters an individual known to be, or that appears to be, under 21,” Walker said, “If under 21,
they will be asked to leave the area and the officer will...”

Reckless behavior was a chief complaint of Martin Court residents who helped Perillo design the new policy. “Students have described
the senior apartments as ‘Dante’s hell’ and ‘an epicenter of...”

The RILO originally held open forums during the first few months of fall semester to ask residents how to handle
trash, but many of the attendees said they needed more than just new recycle bins outside and near stairwells—they needed
a way to keep control at their residence during the active party scenes common to the weekends at senior apartments.
Court is part of RLO’s attempt to hold students accountable for their actions. The problem extends beyond Martin Court. On
any given Friday or Saturday night, up-the-hill residents of all ages descend to apartments like E to party.

Since the student body last week, Perillo says she has received over 20 e-mails from students thanking her for enacting
the reforms and still other e-mails that expressed concern over carding. After the reform went into effect this weekend, many
residents felt as though the efforts had been taken too far and fear the effects the new policy will have
on their social lives: namely, that students will have fewer places to party without constant fear of punishment. “I think
the school is really overstepping its boundaries by trying to micromanage our social lives,” says Peter Beste ’08, a resident
of F. Either way, the initiation of the reforms will continue this weekend and will hopefully ease some of the
contention amongst Martin Court residents.

...on the opportunity to see the world from a unique perspective. If you're curious and adventurous then pack your bags
and say goodbye to the status quo. Study abroad to earn college credit, experience a different culture, learn a foreign
language, discover who you are and much more. USAC, your gateway to the world.™

Earth photo courtesy of NASA: The Visible Earth, http://visibleearth.nasa.gov
