2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Recycle, from page 1

aged to actively participate in waste reduction, the first step of the “reduce, reuse, recycle” chain.

People often focus on the last step, recycle, because it is the simplest and most manageable task, but reducing waste is just as important (if not more) in our efforts to minimize detrimental impact on the environment.

As part of the contest, the Coordinator for Recycling, Barbara Zaionz, is in charge of submitting weekly reports to “Recyclemania,” specifying how much waste the College produced (in tons). Measuring the total waste is a difficult undertaking, but Zaionz is enthusiastic.

“We are excited,” Zaionz said. “Physical Plant is making a lot of progress and now we need to communicate with everyone in the community about what we are doing.”

Data is posted weekly on “recyclemania.org” so that anyone can track the College’s progress in the competition.

The College will hold its own contests as part of the “Waste Minimization Challenge” to encourage everyone on campus to participate. Some of the prizes for these competitions include tote bags and t-shirts that are 50% cotton and 50% synthetic fabric manufactured from five plastic 20 oz. bottles.

“President Ross is very behind sustainability, and now our primary goal is education,” Zaionz said. Davidson wants to establish environmental awareness and responsibility as something that defines its members similar to the Honor Code culture.

By supporting initiatives such as “Recyclemania” and other similar activities that will be going on around campus, every student, faculty, and staff member can contribute towards achieving the goal and set an example for community members outside the College.

BOSTON

NEWS
Union Board Presidential Candidates

CHELSEA HEATH

Since arriving at Davidson a year and a half ago, I have been actively involved with the Union Board. From serving on the Artist Series Selection Committee, which brought you Second City and Cirque, to my current role as Speaker’s Committee Chair, I have been dedicated to quality programming and events that unify the campus.

I hope to continue my involvement as your Union Board President, setting my primary goals as: greater student involvement in the event selection process and heightened dedication to the campus’s goals of diversity and greater community awareness. Please help me attain these objectives with your vote on Feb. 11th.

Earn 10 academic credits in 12 weeks. You choose two courses, and we'll arrange your internship.

UNIVERSITY SUMMER TERM

Areas of Study:
- Arts and Culture
- Business and Management
- Film and Media Studies
- Graphic and Web Design
- International Studies
- Politics and Public Policy
- Psychology and Social Policy
- Self-Designed Track

APPLY BY MAY 2, 2008

www.bu.edu/summer/internship
617-353-0556

BEN VAN DYKE

Hey, Davidson. My name is Ben Van Dyke. I’m a rising senior, and I am running for Union Board President. I have served on the Union Board for two years: as a Member-at-Large last year and as the current Chairperson of the Recess Committee. In addition, I was an active member of the Recess Committee during my first year at Davidson. Last year, I coordinated Davidson Idol and Casino Night with the other Members-at-Large, and I worked on the Phantom of the Duke Haunted House, the Campus Christmas Party and Spring Frolics. This year, I have sponsored such events as the Guitar Hero Tournament, Scene It?, Trivia Night, and Campus-Wide Capture-the-Flag. As a Hall Counselor and two-year Vice President of Changing Minds, I have learned how to work closely with a group of people to listen to and develop ideas in order to create successful events. I have come to love the Union because I believe it is the living room of the campus; it’s the place where people come together to do everything from eating to studying to just relaxing and having fun. I strongly believe in maintaining the Union’s place as an important center of campus life. I think that the Union Board exists for every student’s enjoyment and it is my goal to keep the Union Board open and responsive to you and your ideas. I am very interested in your input and I hope that you will help me to bring my experience, energy, creativity and dedication to the Union Board. Please vote Ben Van Dyke for 2008-2009 Union Board President and give me the opportunity to work hard to create bigger and better events for YOU.

Craig Detweiler ’85 will

“I was able to land an internship at the architecture firm of Shepley Bulfinch Richardson & Abbott. The firm currently designs buildings throughout the country and even internationally. I am interested in “green” building and SBRA makes this a priority.”

Graphic and Web Design intern, 2007