10 The Davidsonian

Blocked FG sends ’Cats to fourth-straight loss

Ray Francis
Staff Writer

Turnovers and special teams gaffes once again derailed a strong effort by the Davidson Wildcats football team, as Drake blocked
a potential game-tying 28-yard field goal as time expired to hang onto a 20-17 victory.

Ryan Alexander ’09 led the Wildcat offense with 210 yards on 23-40 passing and a touchdown. However, he also threw
two interceptions, one of which was returned for a touchdown. Kenny Mantuo ’11 rushed for 72 yards on 13 carries
and a touchdown. Mark Hanabury ’11 led the Wildcat receiving corps with six catches for 45 yards, and Myles Potter
’09 added a 43-yard touchdown reception. Tyler Lemons ’10 had nine tackles, while Daniel Hauffe ’10, Matt Easton ’09, and
Peter Bakke ’09 recorded eight tackles apiece.

The Wildcats claimed an early 7-0 lead when Alexander and Potter connected on their touchdown 37 seconds into the second
quarter. Later in the quarter, however, Alexander’s pass was intercepted off a deflection by Andy Green, who returned the pick
46 yards for a touchdown. After a fumble on the ensuing kickoff, the Bulldogs cashed in on Cole Ingle’s 11-yard
touchdown pass to Stephen Platek. Davidson managed to answer these scores with a successful two-minute drill that culminated with Ben
Behrendt ’11 nailing a 44-yard field goal. The drive left Drake with a 14-10 advantage at halftime.

Logan Rees added field goals of 26 and 32 yards to begin the second half for the Bulldogs. The second
field goal came as a result of an interception thrown by Alexander in Bulldog territory. Alexander responded by leading the
Wildcats on a 13-play, 70-yard drive that culminated in Mantuo’s one-yard touchdown run. Behrendt’s extra point made the score 20-17
with 13 minutes to play.

Rees missed a 43-yard field goal attempt later in the quarter that would have given his team a six-point lead.
The Wildcats took over on downs with 1:58 remaining in the game and one more chance to tie the game.
Alexander completed five passes and rushed twice to account for all of the drive’s 56 yards. The final 18 yards
came on a completion to Hanabury that put the Wildcats on the Bulldog 11. After two incompletions, only seven seconds
remained. Faced with this time limit, Wildcat coach Tripp Merritt ordered the field goal unit onto the field. A swarm
of Bulldogs broke through the line, however, and David Witkiewicz was credited with the block that ended the game.

Merritt pointed to turnovers as the primary factor in the loss. Saturday’s game was the fifth time in seven games
this season in which the Wildcats turned the ball over at least three times. Not coincidentally, those five games constitute
the five blemishes on the Wildcats’ record. Merritt was also encouraged by the play of the defense. Although half of
the team’s defensive starters missed the game entirely or were limited by injury, the unit performed remarkably well. Of the
four Bulldog scores, two came on drives of 17 and five yards, while one was a defensive score. Only one
Drake scoring drive began out of scoring position.

“We’ve just got to stay focused on the little things,” said linebacker Elliot Campbell ’11. “Now we just have to
stay focused on next week and try to finish the season above .500.”

The loss dropped the Wildcats to 2-5, 1-4 in the Pioneer Football League. The Wildcats will play their final road
game on Saturday as they look to end their four-game losing streak when they travel to Campbell before closing the
season with a three-game homestand. The Camels (1-7, 0-5), in their first year of membership in the PFL, have been
outscored 238-14 in their five league games.

Football (2-5, 1-4)
Results:
10/25 @ Drake L 17-20
Next Up:
11/1 @ Campbell
Notes: Coming off of four consecutive losses, Davidson will make the short drive to Campbell University to take on the
Camels in front of a packed homecoming stadium.

Field Hockey (6-12, 1-5)
Results:
10/22 vs. App. State W 5-1
10/25 vs. Radford W 2-1
Next Up:
11/2 @ UNC
Notes: After beating Radford and Appalachian State at home, the ’Cats will travel to Chapel Hill to battle the Tar
Heels of UNC.

SPORTS
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2008

Flickerball fever: musings of a flickerball ref

Curtis Young
Staff Writer

It is something like a rite of passage for those of us not involved in varsity athletics. We play on
our hall teams as freshmen, and the bragging rights for winning the championship in the football stadium over Family Weekend
last for years. I am speaking, of course, about a Davidson institution. I am speaking, of course, of flickerball.

I played on my hall’s team as a freshman (we lost a heartbreaker in the semifinals), and for the past
few years I’ve had the best seat in the house for flickerball action. As a referee, I see almost every
game that happens on campus, from the women’s freshman league to the top tiers of the open league. My roommate
had an even better way of describing my involvement with the sport. “Wait Chris,” he said, “so you’re the guy
that walks around campus with all the freshmen saying, ‘that’s the guy who screwed up our game on Sunday?’ I
used to hate that guy.” Yep, that’s me. But it’s a fun campus job and, better yet, gives me an
up-close view on flickerball at Davidson.

Given my perspective, I’m going to offer what I’m sure you all want to know. What’s going on in the
world of flickerball? Family Weekend is a perfect time to offer you an update, as the freshman league championships (and
the shots at four years of glory) took place on Sunday. Also, the open league season has been in full
swing for weeks, as upperclassmen battle for flickerball supremacy on the hallowed IMAC fields.

I will first give a brief recap of the Family Weekend happenings and give credit to the freshman halls that
captured their respective championships. On a day of hotly contested games, two very deserving teams emerged victorious. On the women’s
side, the Base Belk Bombshells made their trademark entrance, screaming and dancing their way into the stadium in an attempt
to intimidate their opponents. The tactic worked, as it hasAll season, as Base Belk capped an undefeated campaign with a
triumph in the championship. They subsequently traversed the campus and serenaded the baseball scrimmage with a Base Belk cheer. More
evidence of the importance of flickerball at Davidson? I think so. The men’s side was no less competitive or exciting,
and featured Second Belk vs. Third Belk for the title. Third Belk had stormed into the title game on the
heels of an undefeated regular season and a dominating 33-9 win in the semifinals. Second Belk boasted an impressive offense
that featured myriad long passes to their extremely tall receiving corps. Having seen many games over my four flickerball seasons,
I felt as though Third Belk had the most impressive regular season of any freshman team over that time. Second
Belk, though, was not intimidated. The underdog Second Belk team staked out an early 20-7 lead, and then held off
a stirring rally for a 20-14 win. The best thing about the game, however? Unlike last season’s Championship game, which
had to be ended prematurely due to a near-brawl and high tensions, both teams impressively kept their composure until the
final whistle, in spite of the high intensity of the contest.

Remember, though, that flickerball does not have to end after Family Weekend of your first year at Davidson. Open league
flickerball currently has seven teams playing a round-robin schedule in preparation for the tournament, which will decide another Davidson intramural
championship. Currently, as has often been the case in years past, the baseball team’s flickerball squad leads the pack, with
a small pack of contenders chasing them down. Phi Delta Theta and Kappa Sigma both boast strong squads, and the
dark horse Booooooom, led by intramural wunderkind MacLean Hall, are also in the mix. No game is easy, though, and
the tournament will offer some intense competition. Remember, flickerball is a Davidson institution that you will look back on with
fond memories. Trust me, the freshman rivalries are still brought up in conversation during your senior years. If you have
found yourself pining for some more flickerball, come on out and join an open league team. There is no sport
that truly resembles flickerball. Heed this: you only get your four years here to take part in this incredible tradition.
Congratulations once again to Base Belk and Second Belk of the 2008 season. You have cemented yourselves in flickerball lore.

Peele, Neale lead Wildcats past Furman
ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

On Saturday, the Wildcat volleyball team traveled to Greenville, SC to take on the Furman Paladins. Davidson defeated Furman 3-1,
(25-23, 25-23, 17-25, 25-21). Sarabeth Peele ’11 led the Wildcat offense with 15 kills while teammate Kittery Neale ’09 had
11 kills and Jorden Benedict ’11 had 10. As a team, the Wildcats hit .250. Hayley Lawson ’11 tallied 41
assists for the Cats. For the Wildcat defense, Jennifer Chamblee ’11 had 20 digs. The first game opened with tough
offense led by Neale and Peele, giving the 'Cats a 2-0 lead. Davidson was able to hold the lead until
10-7. The ’Cats would fall behind in the rally but Jorden Benedict was able to bring the ’Cats the victory,
25-23. In the second game, the ’Cats led as early as 9-5 with strong serving from Neale. Putaways from Jorden
Benedict gave the ’Cats a 16-14 margin. Davidson was able to prevail and bring home another 25-23 win. Furman played
strong in the third game which proved to be just enough to beat the 'Cats, 25-17. In the fourth game,
Davidson had an early 10-4 lead behind a 7-0 run with the help of Christine Perzinski’s ’12 strong serving. Furman
was able to tie up the game at 15 apiece but the elder Benedict was able to put the ’Cats
back on top for good. The ’Cats won the fourth game 25-21, securing the win for Davidson.

On Sunday, the ’Cats traveled on to Spartanburg, SC to take on the Wofford Terriers in an afternoon match. The
Terriers beat the ’Cats 3-1, (18-25, 19-25, 25-29, 12-25). In the first game, the 'Cats were overcome by the Terriers’
tough serving. With the score at 9-4, Wofford went on a scoring streak, taking the first game. In the second
game, Davidson and the Terriers were tied as late as 18 all. But kills from the Terriers gave Wofford the
lead and the win. In the third game, the ’Cats and Terriers were tied as late as 17 all, but
the ’Cats were able to secure the win. In the fourth game, Wofford dominated the Wildcats. The Terriers led the
whole time and they took the match. With the split, the 'Cats remained .500 in Southern Conference play at 6-6
and improved to 11-14 overall. They enter the conference home stretch a half-game behind Furman for third place in the
South Division. Davidson’s next game is scheduled for Saturday, November 1 as the ’Cats travel to Chattanooga to take on
conference rival UT-Chattanooga. The Wildcats conclude their road schedule the next day with a game at Samford before finishing the
season with a four-game homestand that begins Nov. 7 against College of Charleston.

Women’s Soccer (9-5-3, 7-3)
Results:
10/24 vs. Presbyterian W 4-1
10/26 @ App. State L 1-2
Next Up:
10/29 @ Wofford
11/1 vs. Ga. Southern
Game Notes: An impressive win over Presbyterian College Friday night boosted the ’Cats’ morale, and they look to take that
momentum with them into this week’s games.

Men’s Soccer (3-12-1, 1-4-0)
Results:
10/23 @ Elon W 1-0
10/26 @ UNC-Greensboro L 0-1
Next Up:
10/30 @ Ga. Southern
11/2 SoCon Tourney
Notes: The ’Cats get prepared for one more test this Thursday against the Georgia Southern Eagles. After splitting with two
SoCon opponents last week, the ’Cats go on the road as they look to finish strong in conference play.

Cross Country
Results:
10/17 Blue Ridge Mountain
Men — 10th
Women — 5th
Next Up:
11/1 SoCon Championships
Notes: Caroline Sanker ’09 finished 4th individually at the Blue Ridge Open as the ’Cats ran their final race before
the SoCon Championships to be held this Saturday.
