10 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Women’s Soccer falls to UNC-Wilmington
JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

The ’Cats wrapped up their non-conference schedule last Sunday with a disappointing loss to UNC-Wilmington 2-0. Unbeaten in its first
five games, the team must erase this two-game skid heading into conference play this weekend.

Sunday’s matchup against the in-state rivals turned quickly against the home team at Alumni Stadium. In the seventh minute, a
misdirected Wildcat clear landed on the foot of a Wilmington player, who beamed a shot from the top of the
box. The rocket sailed beyond the reach of Loring Ward ’10, who started in her second consecutive game this season.
While only four Wilmington shots were on target, two of them managed to scrape the back of the net. Those
scores were all they would need.

A quarter of the way into the second half, the visiting adversaries capitalized on a penalty shot in the box
for insurance to put the game at 2-0. Throughout the game, the ’Cats managed as many shots as their opponents—even
twice as many on target—but they could not open up the best opportunities on defense. This problem has plagued them
over the past few games and will provide a major focus for practice this week.

“Where we’ve got to get a little more efficient and effective is in the positions we have, turning the possessions
we have into goal-scoring opportunities,” head coach Greg Ashton said. The scoring drought is not so much an issue with
personnel as it is with composure and experience working as a team. “We’ve got the players to do it—I think
we’ll gain some more confidence, and get in some more players,” Ashton said.

Embarking on a stretch of conference matchups, the ’Cats will rely on healthy competition within the team to maintain confidence
and intensity. At the doldrums of the schedule, each game requires constant, individual focus. “In the middle of the season
when we have a lot of games going on, it’s hard not to overlook another game,” Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10 said.
“You know if you have a really important game on Sunday, but a not-so-important game Friday, you still don’t want
to overlook [the Friday game].” This weekend, fortunately, this issue will not be a factor as the ’Cats face two

Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10 led Davidson with three shot attempts, but the Wildcat offense was unable to find the back of
the net in Sunday’s 2-0 home loss to UNCW.

’Cats play in fall tennis events
CARRIE LEIGH EVANS
Staff Writer

Men’s tennis continued their fall season at the University of Georgia for the 2008 Southern Intercollegiate while the women’s team
opened their season in the College of Charleston Tournament. Over 30 teams were in attendance, including number one ranked Furman,
for the Southern Intercollegiate. Brandon Byrd ’09, Eric Noble ’10, Carter Braxton ’11 and Calum Gee ’12 made up this
weekend’s roster. The team dropped early matches and struggled to pick it up in the consolation round. Gee, the team’s
freshman recruit from Scotland, however, picked up a win (6-1, 7-5) for the team in the consolation round, defeating Oliver
Smith of ABAC. The men will celebrate homecoming weekend with an Alumni Match this Saturday at 1 p.m. They will
continue the season at the Georgia Tech Invitational October 3.

The women also returned home with mixed success. Stephani Synn ’12 advanced to the championship round of the B1 singles,
falling to Keely Mulligan ’11 of College of Charleston, 6-2, 6-2. Samantha Galainena ’11 fell early in the same bracket.
Teresa Wang ’10 placed 10th in A1 singles and Michele Fanney ’09 placed 12th. Alison Rauh ’11 managed a sixth
place finish in the A1 flight while Molly McDevitt ’12 placed 11th. Molly Verlin ’12 placed seventh in B2 singles
and Katharine Dicconson ’12 fell to the bracket champion in the first round and placed ninth.

In doubles play, Wang and Synn placed second, falling to Dowse and Mulligan of the host team in the A2
championship. Rauh and Galainena faced Evans and Newman of CofC in the B1 championship, and also placed second. Verlin and
Dicconson placed sixth in the same bracket. Fanney and McDevitt fell in the quarterfinals of the A1 flight and picked
up 4th in the consolation bracket. The Wildcats’ season will continue at the ITA regionals in late October.Very important challenges.
The SoCon schedule kicks off Thursday night at Furman and then they play again Sunday at Wofford. The matchup at
7 p.m. Friday night pits the ’Cats against the Furman Paladins, who are coming off an impressive victory against Clemson’s
ACC competition. Still riding the energy of last year’s SoCon title and NCAA tournament berth, the Paladins currently boast a
4-2-1 record. The ’Cats may seem to have an advantage based on their performance against Kennesaw State—Furman dropped a 3-1
decision to the team while Davidson managed a 1-1 tie. That performance differential does not apply to Sunday’s game against
Wofford since the Terriers also tied Kennesaw 1-1. Their current record is not nearly as impressive, at 1-4-3. Last year,
the Terriers lost to Davidson in the SoCon tournament, guaranteeing an intense game as they seek revenge at home. After
such a tough and wide-ranging non-conference schedule, the ’Cats gauge their strengths and weaknesses with only their conference foes ahead.
Emphasizing the opportunities up front, the team must maintain an aggressive attack to capitalize on scoring opportunities. Strategy aside, the
players are optimistic. “I’m really excited about this year,” Bye-Nagel said. “I think we could go all the way. We
definitely have the potential.”

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2008

The women’s volleyball team traveled to Buffalo, NY last weekend to take on the University of Buffalo. Davidson continued to
lead for the rest of the match. Lindsay Paroczai’s ’09 final kill put the match away for the Wildcats with
a final score of 25-1. On Saturday, the Wildcats continued their tournament play by taking on the High Point University
Panthers. The match was close, going into five sets, but the Panthers ultimately took the win 3-2, 22-25, 22-06, 25-21,
25-15, 15-10. Peele had another impressive set, notching 16 kills for the Wildcats, while Perzinski and Madison Benedict also turned
in double-digit kill performances. Hayley Lawson ’11 had 41 assists for the ’Cats to go along with 15 digs. Jennifer
Chamble added 25 digs and Neale managed 11. Later that afternoon, the ’Cats took on the host team, University of
Buffalo. Davidson fell short, losing in three sets (25-17, 25-22, 25-20). Perzinski led the Wildcats with 11 kills and nine
digs in the losing effort, and her performance throughout the weekend earned her a spot on the All-Tournament team. Davidson
(4-8) opens Southern Conference play this week with three home games and will look to get off to a fast
start. The Wildcats host Georgia Southern at 7 p.m. tonight and then Samford and Chattanooga visit Belk Arena this weekend
for a pair of SoCon games.

Wildcat Roundup

Football (1-1)
Field Hockey (2-6)
Men’s Soccer (1-6-1)
Women’s Soccer (2-2-3)
Volleyball (4-8)
Men’s and Women’s Cross Country

Results:
9/20 vs. Jacksonville
9/20 vs. Longwood L 2-1
9/19 vs. UAB 2-2
9/21 vs. UNCW L 2-0
9/19 vs. St. Francis W 3-0
9/21 vs. Wake Forest L 4-1
9/21 vs. Winthrop L 1-0
9/20 vs. High Point L 2-3
9/20 @ Buffalo L 0-3

Next Up:
9/27 vs. Jacksonville
9/26 vs. Catawba
9/27 @ South Carolina
9/25 @ Furman
9/28 vs. Monmouth
9/28 @ Wofford
9/24 vs. Ga. Southern
9/27 vs. Samford
9/28 vs. Chattanooga

Notes:
Coming off a bye week, the ’Cats are hosting PFL rival Jacksonville in a Homecoming game this Saturday at 1
p.m.
Notes: After dropping two games over the weekend, the ’Cats are looking to get back on the right track with
wins against Catawba and Monmouth.
Notes: After failing to capture a win in the Nike Invitational Tournament, the Wildcats look to get a road win
against SEC opponent South Carolina this Saturday.
Notes: The ’Cats begin SoCon play with tough road tests this week at Furman and Wofford.
Notes: The Wildcats host three SoCon opponents this week as they look to start strong in conference play.

Tom Divinnie ’10 led the men with a fifth-place finish while Caroline Sanker ’09 finished fourth for the women in
the Winthrop Invitational.
