‘Basketball sparks great interest on Davidson’s campus. Besides the addition of exciting new freshmen and coaches, this season is expected to end up in the best seats, in the student sections and often The Davidsonian.

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl

Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Brian Moran

News Editors
Kate Kelly & Nina Mace

Perspectives Editors
Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris

Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Errington & Jennifer Gambrell

Yowl Editors
Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian

Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis

Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Kelsey Lilley

Business, Advertising and Circulation Managers
Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Lauren Wright

Online Editor
Greg Newman

Section Copy Editors
Kelly Beggs, Julia Edwards, Stephanie Jones & Nami Patel

Content Manager
The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2008

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Town of Davidson responsible in development

Andrew Evans’ article “Town maps development” (9/25/08) is a good description of the Town of Davidson’s commitment to excellent planning. In my nearly 60-year relationship with this town, its leaders have always exhibited the courage to do what’s right for the community. In recent years, some have criticized our town for being unfriendly to development. This is not true. We welcome the most responsible, highest quality development with the distinction that the development will be completed in keeping with the town’s design guidelines, and not necessarily in the way the developer may be used to doing his or her work. Want a practical example? Compare the CVS Pharmacy in downtown Mooresville to the one here in Davidson.

As a side note, Mr. Evans’ article referred to a consultant, Meredith Judy, who is working to assist the Town’s development of a comprehensive plan. Meredith is a 1999 Davidson College graduate, who began her career in urban planning as an intern in the Town’s Planning Department. We liked her so much, we gave her a part-time job that grew into a full-time job. Now, with several years of experience, she has just graduated with a master’s degree in urban planning from M.I.T.

I would like to encourage all Davidson students to get to know the community around you. The Town of Davidson is a great learning laboratory for urban planning, architectural design, and non-profit agency support of those in need. Get to know us! Get involved!

John Woods
Mayor, Town of Davidson

Obama calm in debate, McCain hawkish

LAURA SHILLINGBURG
Guest Writer

Friday night’s long-awaited debate gave voters clear insights into our Presidential candidates. In the face of McCain’s bragging, immature and bullish behavior, Obama’s demeanor was refreshing. Obama offered specifics when he addressed each issue, whereas McCain mentioned unrelated experiences and key words without details.

Speaking on economics, Obama referenced his detailed plans for change. Ninety-five percent of Americans will receive tax cuts; large corporations and the wealthy will lose their undeserved loopholes and breaks. We’ll build an infrastructure that will help America grow strong again. By contrast, McCain offered only unspecific reductions in spending that will not make up for the $300 billion in tax cuts he’ll offer the wealthiest. He argues that the workers of America are strong. Even if you believe his recent assertion that “the fundamentals of the economy” has always referred to “the workers,” that doesn’t explain why those workers have struggled for months, not merely since Wall Street’s problems started.

On foreign policy, Obama proved that he’s not naive. Our president needs to be able to handle several crises at once.John McCain has just proven that he is incapable of doing so and may put other needs before country, such as promoting his own image. He answered questions insightfully. McCain, on the other hand, acted superior, even dismissive. Worryingly, McCain stubbornly clung to Iraq as the main issue. Can we say “justification of effort?” He’s supported this travesty since the beginning. To justify his decision, he must now convince everyone he was right, despite evidence to the contrary. He claims we’re winning. If that’s true, shouldn’t violence levels be even lower? The original argument for the surge was that it would offer breathing room. It may have done that, but that does not indicate anything close to victory. Frighteningly, this is the man who might end up leading the nation’s military. McCain claims experience, declaring Obama “doesn’t understand,” because he’s new. He understands plenty, as he showed during the debate. What’s more, McCain’s “experience” has made him cocky. Obama will listen to expert opinions and use them to make the wisest decisions. For all McCain’s experience in warfare and politics, he was sneering and refused to follow the rules of the debate. He even went so far as to ignore, several times, moderator Jim Lehrer’s attempts to move on. In a crisis, a president who can soldier on is great, but during a debate it’s rude and unnecessary—which doesn’t say much for his ability to be diplomatic when meeting with leaders around the world. Obama listened and responded thoughtfully, not repeating recycled material. McCain’s poor showing at this debate only underlines his recent failure in other areas. For years he’s supported deregulation on Wall Street, and only now does he support tighter restrictions. Better regulation might have mitigated the current crisis, if not prevented it. He tried to cancel this presidential debate for political reasons. Claiming to put the country first, he allegedly suspended his campaign. Yet, ads ran, Palin gave speeches, and he himself gave an interview. Our president needs to be able to handle several crises at once. John McCain has just proven that he is incapable of doing so and may put other needs before country, such as promoting his own image. He calls himself a maverick, but clearly his dictionary differs from most, as he’s supported the Bush economic and foreign policy plans and continues to do so. His running mate is no better. She accepted gifts from oil companies around the time she was making legislation dealing with their interests. McCain says his plan to stay in Iraq for a hundred years will technically entail just a military base presence, and not active combat involvement. He says he wants US soldiers “out of harm’s way.” While there are lots of other bases, in places such as Japan and Germany, that no one worries about, soldiers based in Baghdad would remain under threat from suicide bombs for quite some time. Furthermore, establishing a base without the Iraqi government’s consent would be viewed as a colonization attempt, creating distrust and anger among people who would otherwise support us. Finally, with McCain’s plan, we may not be able to adequately address the areas that need our attention most: where Al Qaeda is most active, in Afghanistan and Pakistan. He calls himself a maverick, but clearly his dictionary differs from most, as he’s supported the Bush economic and foreign policy plans and continues to do so. McCain has proven yet again that he is overly self-confident and unwilling to consider what’s best for our country—only what’s best for his image. We cannot trust that he will listen to reasonable advice instead of just assuming he knows what is best. If we want our country to be admired around the world in the future, or even feel safe within its borders, we cannot afford to elect McCain as president. We need someone who will strengthen our economy and our workforce, while diplomatically improving our relations abroad and keeping us secure. We need Barack Obama.

Laura Shillingburg ’09 is a theatre major from Atlanta, Ga. Contact her at lashillingburg@davidson.edu