THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
November 5, 2008

Arts & Living

Andy Warhol exhibit on display at Mint Museum

JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

Andy Warhol, 1960: American printmaker, photographer, filmmaker, and founder of Pop Art. His alternative, eclectic work has gained immense popularity
over subsequent decades, ultimately to be regarded now as one of the greatest artistic movements of the 20th century.

Drawing heavily upon American iconic megaliths such as Campbell’s Soup, Coca-Cola bottles, and Marilyn Monroe, Warhol began creating a wide
range of colorful, cartoonish paintings which reflected the very essence of what it meant to live in commercial America.

During the 1960s, he founded what was known as “The Factory,” his own art studio around which he amassed a
large and eccentric following of various artists, writers, and celebrities. In keeping with burgeoning mass media, he wanted to be
known as a “machine,” producing high numbers of images which were both artistically sound and controversial.

For example, although few would find fault with beautiful icons such as Ingrid Bergman, Grace Kelly, or Elizabeth Taylor, Warhol
sought more serious subjects, and likewise turned to money and newspaper clippings—the latter of which featured highly violent images of
knives, skulls, electric chairs, police dogs mauling civil rights protestors, and mushroom clouds.

Warhol debuted his private print collection in 1962 at New York City’s Eleanor Ward’s Stable Gallery where his works included
“Marilyn Diptych” and “100 Dollar Bills.” Then the 1964 installation marked a key turning point in Warhol’s career with “The
American Supermarket,” a show held in Paul Bianchini’s Upper East Side Gallery which presented the collaborative works of six mainstream
artists and included images of canned goods, meat, and Warhol’s own famous Campbell’s canned soup image. Ironically, the latter piece
cost a grand total of $1,600, and only six dollars per autographed copy. This exhibit was one of the first
public displays of Pop Art.

New York City, Feb. 22, 1987: the Andy Warhol reign met a bitter end. However, for an artist of such
heavy public influence and personal controversy, his death was ironically less than remarkable. It was actually during a recovery from
routine gall bladder surgery in a New York hospital that Warhol suffered a heart attack in the middle of the
night, which ended his life.

The man is gone, but the legend is as fresh as ever. His famous works are cycled throughout museums and
art books and duplicated on everything from posters to key chains. And currently on display at the Charlotte Mint Museum
is the “Andy Warhol Portfolios: Life & Legend” exhibit.

Featuring approximately 60 pieces from various portfolios including the large Bank of America collection, some of his most prominent pieces
will come from the “Endangered Species Portfolio,” the “Flowers Portfolio,” the “Myths Portfolio,” the “Muhammad Ali Portfolio,” and the “Space
Fruits Portfolio.” Each of these portfolios provides about ten color screenprints.

Having officially begun Oct. 4, this exhibit will remain open until Feb. 15, 2009, and admission runs $6 for adults,
$5 for college students with identification, and free for ages five and younger. Museum hours are Tuesday from 10 a.m.
to 9 p.m., Wednesday through Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and Sunday 12 p.m. to 5 p.m. The museum
is closed Monday.

Jolie’s skills evident in ‘Changeling’

HANNAH JAKOB
Staff Writer

Powerful. Gripping. Emotional. Nothing less could describe Clint Eastwood’s latest film “Changeling.” Angelina Jolie gives a stirring portrayal of a
woman who, against all odds, desperately searches for her son. Jolie’s display of emotion and desire is more than realistic,
it is heartbreaking and inspiring.

When the film’s producers first approached Jolie about casting her for the role of Christine, the actress had several doubts.
She worried about how the disturbing subject matter might affect her as a mother. Jolie, fortunately, read the script and
was swayed. She decided to play the part because of Christine’s admirable resiliency in the face of a horrible situation.

When Christine Collins’ (Jolie) nine-year-old son Walter (Gattlin Griffith) goes missing on March 10, 1928, Christine, as any mother would,
calls the police. The voice on the other end of the line harshly tells her that she cannot report a
missing child for 24 hours. Christine cannot understand the logic of this but, being a proper ‘lady’ of the time,
she holds her tongue and hangs up.

After weeks of no news from the police department, Christine gets a surprise visit from the police, who tell her
that they have found her son.

But the boy the police present Christine with is not her son. She tells Captain Jones (Jeffrey Donovan) that this
child does not belong to her, but he refutes her claim to avoid embarrassment. Instead, the captain insists that Christine
is overcome with emotion and is therefore not thinking straight. He concludes that she simply does not recognize the boy
because he has drastically changed from the result of intense trauma.

Christine knows this is all an elaborate lie. She begs Captain Jones to continue looking for her real son, yet
he refuses because he is certain that they have already found him. With her persistent complaints, Christine becomes a nuisance
to the police. They begin to...

See Jolie, page 11
