THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES

Campus must respect all lifestyles

ALEX POLHILL Guest Writer

After reading Kevin Cook’s article, “Promote tolerance, not specific lifestyles,” I felt compelled to write a response. While there may
not be more of a phobia of homosexuality than other different lifestyles on campus, I believe one still exists. This
is evident from the numerous acts of homophobia seen on Patterson Court — on First Weekend Down alone, there were
two known occurrences. In even the simplest of situations, many students feel it is okay to use the words “gay”
and “faggot” to give something a negative connotation. Davidson can only become a more accepting campus when people accept that
homophobia exists; it is all too easy to not fix a problem when people think it does not exist.

If people should not be “announcing one’s sexuality from a mountaintop,” how then do we address Patterson Court parties? On
any given Friday or Saturday, anyone can walk into one of those parties and find at least three couples making
out on the dance floor - a culture that plenty of Davidson students have subscribed to. If people should not
be “announcing sexuality from a mountaintop,” how, then, do we address Patterson Court parties? Students gather for brunch the next
morning and laugh about their hook-ups the night before. Would students take it so lightheartedly if it was two people
of the same gender hooking up? There is something to be said about keeping one’s private life behind closed doors,
but doesn’t everyone want to go out to dinner with their significant other? Doesn’t everyone want to take their boyfriend
or girlfriend to their house’s formal? It is hard to simply tell people not to do this because they will
have to accept what others will think of it.

Although Davidson should not promote one way of living, the College does promote heterosexuality, even though it is not blatantly
said. If we should not be promoting one sort of lifestyle, then Davidson should not endorse other organizations such as
BSC, OLAS, or ACAA - there should be no organizations where people can come together to celebrate who they are,
simply because they are different from the majority of the students here. While Davidson students are not outside rallying, everyone
wants to be accepted, not in spite of, but because of who they are. These groups are established on campus
not because students want to promote their way of life, but to promote tolerance and acceptance — a difference that
needs to be made clear. Groups that promote tolerance and equality on campus are not there to make students feel
uncomfortable, but to do just that — promote tolerance.

It is clear that there is a general uneasiness with homosexuality on campus — whether or not everyone has experienced
it. While people not accepting certain minorities may be “an inescapable reality,” trying to get everyone to at least be
tolerant is not an idealistic goal. It is not unreasonable for people to hope for and work towards tolerance of
their lifestyles. Tolerance and acceptance can only come from the students; after all, we are the future of the College.
We, as current students, should set the example for the future students that Davidson is an accepting and tolerant community,
not tell them that there is no problem.

Alex Polhill ’11 is a sociology major from Charlotte, N.C. Contact her at alpolhill@davidson.edu.

All types of sexuality are created equal

OFFICERS OF THE GAY STRAIGHT ALLIANCE Guest Writers

Kevin Cook’s recent article about promoting tolerance of the “homosexual lifestyle/movement/cause” on campus is entirely misled. Homophobia at Davidson is
real; it is divisive, painful, and hypocritical of a campus that is supposed to support “diversity” to not acknowledge its
pervasiveness. While Mr. Cook would have the entire GLBTQ community get back into the closet and stay there, quietly, privately
living out their sexual lives, when do we ever ask this of those subscribing to the “heterosexual lifestyle?” No one
chooses to be straight any more than someone chooses to be gay, or black, or white, or ugly, or pretty,
or tall or small... on and on the list goes. Let us say it again since this seems to be
a huge point of discrepancy among students: sexuality is not a choice. It is not a lifestyle. It is not
a movement. It is not the issue du jour. It is part of life for every student on campus. It
is an honest acknowledgement of self and a kind of self-understanding that is unfortunately discriminated against on campus.

Despite Mr. Cook’s claim that since the letters about homophobia on campus came from alumni and are therefore nonexistent on
today’s campus, we can only respond that he has not personally experienced or witnessed homophobia. To deny that it is
on campus slights the GLBTQ community further, and belittles its struggle for acceptance on campus. By failing to recognize that
there is a problem, and condemning days of acceptance like National Coming Out Day and the BBQueer (for the record,
“queer” is the politically correct terminology for homosexual), Mr. Cook has effectively deprived a community of its right to speak
out against intolerance and acts of hatred directed towards it. Let us say it again since this seems to be
a huge point of discrepancy among students: sexuality is not a choice. The purpose of these events is not to
“promote a lifestyle” or recruit new members to the “movement”, but they aim rather to let the GLBTQ community at
Davidson know that they are welcome here, and that they are a part of the Davidson family as much as
any other student, faculty, or staff member. Days of awareness for the gay community are not trying to get the
college to “go gay” or encourage people to “bat for the other team.” The celebratory, strategicPromotion of the “gay lifestyle”
that Mr. Cook sees is very different from the goals of acceptance that we see. We do agree with him
on one item from his article, that no one wants a Davidson student to feel uncomfortable. But when “fag” becomes
synonymous with “loser,” and “that’s so gay” has become the new “that’s so retarded,” people are bound to feel uncomfortable
and upset. In reality, your sexual life is not lived exclusively behind closed doors. Not when you are straight, not
when you are gay, and especially not when you go to a school with 1,700 students. People are going to
know whose room you walked out of Saturday morning in Friday night’s clothes. Straight couples hold hands on campus and
kiss on the Court, so why should gay students be forced to hold back until they are in the confines
of their own private space? Everyone has their own issues with PDA, but when someone is called out just because
their display is gay, it is clear that we are not doing enough to make the campus comfortable for all
students. Straight couples hold hands on campus and kiss on the Court, so why should gay students be forced to
hold back until they are in the confines of their own private space? When you strip away the labels, the
slurs, and the politically correct considerations, it must be obvious that gay students are people too. They should not have
to edit any part of their lives out of fear that by being honest with themselves they are stepping on
anyone’s toes. Why is it so hard for a campus as intelligent and considerate as Davidson’s to see that gay
issues are not trendy or contrived, but they are civil rights issues? Discrimination of any strain poisons a community and
threatens its integrity. But even worse, failure to recognize a problem or the denial of its existence discredits a community
by taking away its voice. Whether shouted from a mountaintop or quietly discussed in private, recognize the GLBTQ community on
campus, its struggle for acceptance, and its daily issues brought on by students like you. Contact the Gay Straight Alliance
at licooper@davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2008

Poor leaders tarnished Republican Party

To understand the illness permeating the Republican Party, one needs to look no further than its leadership. The big three
of President George W. Bush, Senator Mitch McConnell, and Representative John Boehner have not only failed the party but the
United States. In essence, they sold the country out in order to play feel-good politics. President Bush had a Republican
Congress for six years and instead chose to fight a war against Islamo-fascism by being politically correct, letting the government
grow like Jack’s Beanstalk, and putting out a welcome mat for illegal aliens. Even worse was that the House and
Senate followed like sheep. Could there be any shock that the Republicans have lost two straight elections? When both parties
are identical, why vote for the one that is less experienced in big government? If the Republicans of the 111th
Congress wish to be reborn from their own ashes, they need leaders who will be willing to go head-to-head with
the unprecedented amount of socialism that is sure to result from an Obama-fied Washington. Even though all three leaders have
dug a massive grave, Mitch McConnell might have done the lion’s share of the work: Not only did he support
the illegal alien amnesty bill and the bailout, but he is also a massive pork-lover. In fact, he even brags
about his ability to bring home the pork, claiming that no freshman senator would even be able to attempt to
reach the more than $500 million he brought to Kentucky during the past year. Thus, in the midst of economic
turmoil, he talks about bankrupting taxpayers. It is a shock he managed to be re-elected. Now the question is what
to do? The best answer is to demand new leadership. While Bush is on his way out, Boehner and McConnell
retained their respective seats. This, as I have said before, is why primaries are so important. In a sane world,
these two would have never been able to run in the general election, as voters would have already dismissed them.
Now, even though they won re-election in the House and Senate, Republicans need to regain their gumption and refuse to
elect them to positions of power. Better yet, if these men had any sense of dignity left, they would follow
the example of House Whip, Roy Blunt, and resign the leadership positions in the face of their massive failures. However,
history is not on the side of the Republican Party selecting strong leadership. They somehow manage to elect the most
corrupt or immoral amongst them. Individuals like Trent Lott, Newt Gingrich, or Tom DeLay have become the upper echelon of
the party. President Bush had a Republican Congress for six years and instead chose to fight a war against Islamo-fascism
by being politically correct, letting the government grow like Jack's Beanstalk, and putting out a welcome mat for illegal aliens.
If the Republicans of the 111th Congress wish to be reborn from their own ashes, they need leaders who will
be willing to go head-to-head with the unprecedented amount of socialism that is sure to result from an Obama-fied Washington.
I would love to see Michele Bachmann become the House Minority Leader and James Inhofe or Jim DeMint become the
Senate Minority Leader. These individuals are all committed conservatives who unabashedly support the military, the fight against Islamo-fascism, foreign energy
independence, and small government. Better yet, they all refused to support the recent bailout bills. These individuals have what it
takes to put the public back in the Republican Party by bringing back strong God-loving, gun-toting conservatism. Bobby DesPain ’11
is undeclared. He is from St. Louis, Mo. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.
