THE DAVIDSONIAN

Elitism Misplaced

Zach Bennett's article last week proclaimed that Sen. Barack Obama is an elitist. Bennett based this argument on statements Obama
made a few days ago. At a private fundraiser, the senator said that middle-class workers in small towns are struggling
financially because they refuse to deviate from their traditions. This attitude, in turn, makes them “bitter” people who “cling to
guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them,” and harbor “anti-immigrant sentiment or anti-trade sentiment.” Bennett says
that Obama “refuses to entertain the idea that thoughtful individuals could be cultural conservatives,” and this makes Barack Obama an
elitist.

Obama is not an elitist; on the contrary, he has reached out to people across all social, economic, and political
barriers. Admittedly, his words were not chosen well, and he apologized for and clarified his comments. What Sen. Obama tried
to say is that values and beliefs are passed down from generation to generation. Sometimes these traditions are liberal, and
sometimes they are conservative. How these values affect people is often more important than what the beliefs actually are. Obama
acknowledges that passing on traditions to future generations is crucial, saying, “that's what sustains us.” He also cites, however, that
far too often, “people don't feel like they are being listened to.”

In the end, actions speak louder than words. Let's look at who has endorsed Sen. Obama. The Teamsters are one
such endorsement. The Teamsters are one of the largest unions in the United States, a group that consists largely of
working-class people. Following that endorsement, the organization agrees with Obama's message and is optimistic about his ability to reach out
to people of all social and economic classes, not just the elite. The United Food and Commercial Workers International Union
has also shown its support for Sen. Obama; the organization's website proclaims itself as a “voice for working America.” Yet
another organization representing working-class citizens is behind the message of an ‘elitist’ candidate.

A lesser-known endorsement comes from Douglas Kmiec, a Republican. Kmiec served as the U.S. Assistant Attorney General for former Presidents
Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush. Obama once again shows his ability to reach across party lines and connect with
people of varying political beliefs. So what do we make of this? Unions representing the working class as well as
a Republican lawmaker are showing their support for the supposedly elitist Democratic candidate for the presidency. This can't be right.
The truth is, Sen. Obama is very much in touch with the working class. He correctly recognizes that lawmakers have
been losing touch with this demographic.

Bennett points out, “Sens. Clinton and McCain have excoriated Sen. Obama for his condescension.” Let us make one thing clear
immediately; Sens. Clinton and McCain criticizing anyone of being elitist and condescending toward the working class is the pot calling
the kettle black. Hillary and former President Bill Clinton's joint tax returns for the last seven years totaled almost $109.2
million. Hillary made more than $500,000 from her book in 2006, and she collects $150,000 each year from the Senate
(the same as Sens. Obama and McCain). Clinton also recently took out a great deal of her own money to
finance her campaign. She has no business calling someone an elitist when she herself is deep in corporate Washington and
swimming in money.

Bennett also points out that Sen. Obama criticized John McCain for “refusing to use government to stimulate the economy” and
citing this as “evidence of an inability to relate to the American people.” He goes on to criticize Obama's action
as dividing the American public. Rather, it is McCain who seems to be leaving the middle class behind. John McCain's
refusal to invoke the government shows that he wants to leave the economic stimulation to the private sector. Clearly, this
method has not worked for the past.

PERSPECTIVES

Twenty-one people were killed and 120 wounded at a Tel Aviv nightclub in June of 2001. Two months later, 15
people were killed and 130 wounded in a Jerusalem restaurant. In August 2003, 23 people were killed and 130 wounded
on a Jerusalem bus. These tragedies all have the same cause: Hamas. Hamas is a terrorist organization, which since 1990
has murdered more than 500 people, 26 of them Americans. They continually launch rockets into Israeli towns with the hope
of completing their charter's demand of the annihilation of Israel. Hamas has complete disregard for human life and freedom.

Based on this history, former President Jimmy Carter met disgrace and embraced the leaders of Hamas over the past week.
Against the objections of President Bush, the State Department, Congress, Israel, and non-terrorists, the worst president in U.S. history decided
he knew best and met with Hamas. Let us recall the Carter presidency and its terrorist dealings. On Nov. 4,
1979, Iranian terrorists stormed the U.S. Embassy in Tehran and took 52 Americans hostage. Jimmy Carter, rather than bomb Iran
back to the first century, let these 52 Americans be humiliated for 444 days, after which they were released at
the dawn of the Reagan presidency.

In addition to meeting with the leaders of Hamas, Carter also visited and laid a wreath at the tomb of
fellow Nobel Peace Prize recipient, Yasser Arafat. Mr. Arafat, besides winning a Peace Prize, also bombed airplanes, committed murder at
schools and apartments, on buses, at Olympics, and countless other places. In an outrageously despicable gesture, Jimmy Carter chose to
honor the murderer himself, rather than honor the victims of Arafat's terrorism. This is equivalent to the governor of Oklahoma
holding a candlelight ceremony at the grave of Timothy McVeigh on the anniversary of the Oklahoma City bombing.Oklahoma City bombing,
instead of mourning the 168 people McVeigh murdered. Several congressmen have introduced bills to combat Mr. Carter. Some of these
bills are written to target his taxpayer-funded Carter Center. Congress and the Justice Department should go further and label the
Carter Center a terrorist organization and freeze its funds. Carter's passport should be revoked and if he continues to meet
with terrorists, the government should seriously consider charges of treason. While such actions on a former president would be unprecedented,
as a former president, Carter's actions are equally unprecedented. He has completely disregarded the policies of the current administration in
an attempt to satisfy his own quest. In meeting with terrorists he legitimizes their position. He is saying that it
is acceptable to blow up buses and cafes in order to get a point across. Terrorism is suddenly an acceptable
way to negotiate. Not only does Carter justify terrorism, but he also enables it. Terrorists can see that if they
continue to bomb schoolchildren, people like Carter will bow to their wishes. The real tragedy here lies in the fact
that Jimmy Carter is so desperate for attention that he is willing to embrace a terrorist. Carter has become so
irrelevant that the only people willing to recognize him are terrorists. Bobby DesPain '11 is from St. Louis, Mo. Contact
him at bodespain@davidson.edu.

Talk of grade deflation beside the point
JOHN EVANS Guest Columnist

It's interesting to me that at an institution whose members with pride proclaim, “It's a great day to be a
Wildcat,” we should speak of our immediate and future goals with such obvious inconsistencies. We all work harder than rational
humans ought, struggle through sleepless nights to finish that “grade-making” paper, the project chiseled to perfection. Yet many of us
would take far greater joy in the relationships formed with each other, those friendships and quick memories more durable than
textbook bindings. And no wonder. For we all agreed to enroll at this small, little-known, liberal arts college, not because
this school will guarantee us future happiness, but because this place best suits our defined, respectable and shared character as
well as our integrity. So when I listen to and participate in the grumbling that underscores many conversations about our
school, that our workload is too much, our low GPA unfair—when I read a front-page article written in a faint
tone of urgency that describes a meeting purposed to address the pressing issue of grade deflation—it gives me pause. I’m
here to better myself as an individual, to become a fully equipped, well-informed and insightful person. Have I made the
right choice? Is it too late for me, for us, to gain that how-to knowledge essential for any profession? Did
I agree to spend four years of my life here so that I might be unfairly ignored in the “real”
world? No. This is the real world. Davidson College is real. I haven't come here because my Davidson education will
grant me a clear-cut advantage over my peers. I'm here to better myself as an individual, to become a fully
equipped, well-informed and insightful human being. I remain here, when I could easily leave to find real happiness, because I
want to be a part of something that is more than just grades, more than personal success, more than the
accolades, the honors, the professional respect, the self-pride: I want to be a part of something real. We'll become successful
in whatever avenues of life we pursue, should we choose to work hard at all times. Our school has a
reputation for selectivity, and such a quality speaks volumes. If, as I hope and expect, I make it through Davidson,
I know I'll have a bright future ahead of me. So will we all. I want to be a part
of something that is more than just grades, more than personal success, more than the accolades, the honors, the professional
respect, the self-pride: I want to be a part of something real. The task of our school is not to
provide the path to a better future, but to strengthen our will to discover one. I may have the grades;
I may have the prizes; I may have all that might ever beautify a resume. But if I lack those
social skills necessary to create lasting relationships (and by the term, I mean all types of human interactions, from business
to personal), then I will not succeed. If I cannot prove myself as a man of integrity, someone to be
trusted and respected both personally and professionally, who has sense enough to discriminate between basic human assumptions of right and
wrong, then I will not succeed. At my grandfather's funeral last spring, a man took my brother and me aside,
separating us from the crowd of mourners. He told us that our grandfather had been a great man. He said,
“Your grandfather was one of the toughest sons-of-bitches I ever knew, but he was fair. If there was ever anything
bad going on, anything improper, he just walked away and later gave whoever was doing it hell. But if it
was ever bad, he stayed away. He was an ethical man. A decent, loving, honest man who lived with honor.
I want you boys to remember that.” I will remember. And I'll remember that I'm more than a “deflated” GPA.
I'm no prophet, but I feel confident that we'll be OK, because we're all good people. And if we're patient
(because dream jobs and happy lives don't come immediately), then we'll all have everything we, as Davidson graduates, could ever
want. John Evans ‘11 is a Classics and English major from Atlanta, Ga. Contact him at joevans@davidson.edu.
