“Staff Editorial

Awareness about environmental issues has increased this year on campus. The newly renovated Duke Dormitory and Ecological Cooperative House opened,
the student body voted to focus on environmental issues in Real Talk, and our new president, Tom Ross, signed the
Presidential Climate Committee. While these are all steps toward a more ecologically friendly college, we ask again: what can individuals
do to make a difference?

There seems to be a great deal of hypocrisy on this campus when it comes to being eco-friendly. Despite the
physical plant’s efforts and the students’ seeming interest in the environment, as a student body, we have done little to
nothing to change our habits into a more conservationally conscious lifestyle. Is it cool to care about the environment? Is
that why we preach green in public while we practice wastefulness in private?

Last semester, Connor Eating House reverted to disposable dishware and cutlery rather than take responsibility for washing reusable supplies. The
eating house has thankfully returned to permanent plastic ware this week, but the amount of trash it went through last
semester can hardly be excused. Of course, anyone who eats at the Union is guilty of the same crime: we
throw away cups, napkins, plastic cutlery, and other food containers without thought. Perhaps with dishwashing facilities, the Union could cut
down on unnecessary waste, but even with this change, the Union and physical plant can only do so much. The
students must also participate. Conveniently placed recycle receptacles are one step towards a green campus, but anyone on campus can
tell you that hundreds of recyclables never make it into the bins. Especially on Patterson Court, where hundreds of beer
cans end up on the lawn or in regular dumpsters every weekend, recycling has been neglected.

Environmental issues go beyond simple recycling, as Dr. Thomas Homer Dixon’s lecture demonstrated last week. The detriment of the atmosphere
due to carbon emissions might decelerate if Davidson and other institutions nationwide underwent an energy audit and then reduced the
outflow of carbon. Our college has already begun looking into alternative energy sources as well as new heating methods using
steam pressure. But the college cannot renovate dorms overnight, and in the meantime, students should try to do everything possible
to help.

Turning off dorm room lights and computers, printing fewer pages, taking shorter showers, and investing in permanent water bottles are
just a few examples. Did you know that according to the Beverage Marketing Corporation, Americans consumed 31.2 billion liters of
bottled water in 2006? Every Davidson student has the opportunity to change such statistics by reducing waste, recycling, and being
aware that all actions have an impact.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl

Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Katherine Miller

News Editors
Alissa Curran & Chris Moore

Perspectives Editors
Hanna Van Oudenaren & Matt Petit

Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Errington & Caroline Wood

Yow! Editors
James Boswell & Alex Hoyt

Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Patrick McArdle

Photography Editor
Ben Ellinor

Copy Editor
Gretchen Hoffman

Business, Advertising, and Circulation Managers
Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Jamie Hofmeister

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. Phone (704) 894-2148. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are
located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not
necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00 per year. Advertising rates are available
upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

By Nora Goldberger and Ross White
Guest Columnists

In light of Mike Waters’ Perspectives column in last week’s Davidsonian, Just Peace would like to clarify a few points
about the Free Speech Board. We agree with Mike that the Free Speech Board is not a suitable replacement for
meaningful dialogue, and we never intended it as such. We do hope that it sparks increased dialogue on campus, even
if it’s not in a formal setting. In fact, we think it has achieved that purpose. Obviously, it would be
better if the college community could discuss all of these topics in true dialogue, but the fact of the matter
is we either don’t have or don’t make time for that. In the absence of well-attended forum discussions every week,
the board serves to keep dialogue open. Just by reading the board, you’re becoming aware of some of the thoughts
and ideas that are present on campus and you can start to think about how you would react to them.
If you choose to write those reactions down, then your opinions become some of those that may spark others to
think.

That said, Just Peace does want to keep the board on-topic. We try to pick topics that will spur thoughts
and actions. Allowing comments to stay on the board that stray away from those topics takes away from the full
power of the discussion. We can all appreciate a good joke, but a comment like “chicken parm every day!” on
a board whose topic is “racism on campus” trivializes the issue and takes up space that could be used by
a meaningful, on-topic remark. On the other hand, it would hardly be a free speech forum if we deleted comments
that were merely ugly, but not personally abusive or off-topic. Just Peace does prefer “silent tolerance”—as Mike’s article put it—of
hateful ideas to censorship; that’s the tradeoff we’ve made. Profanity and denigrating statements like, “You’re an idiot,” also have no
place on the board. We’re all adults and should be able to express ourselves in a way that is not
so overtly offensive. If you don’t agree with, or are incensed by, something that someone has written, that’s great. Pick
up a marker and let them know. But please do it in a way that is respectful to them, to
yourself.and to the institution we attend. In order to achieve the Board’s maximum effectiveness, we wanted to place it in
a public space. The flipside, however, is that it’s a very public space. Many tours and visitors walk through the
Union every day, and the Free Speech Board is something they notice. Let’s allow it to represent the best of
this school, not the worst. If you’d like to discuss the board with us, we’ll be holding a public forum
this Thursday, Jan. 31 at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room. You can also attend any Just Peace meeting—email either
of us for that week’s time and location—or contact us at any time. In the meantime, keep reading, keep thinking,
and keep writing.

Nora Goldberger ’08 is a Spanish major from Ardmore, PA. Contact her at nogoldberger@davidson.edu. Ross White ‘09 is a Political
Science major from Mount Pleasant, SC. Contact him at rowhite@davidson.edu.

Numerous thefts point to troubled Code
Kevin Cook
Guest Columnist

The thing the Davidson College community prides itself in most is the Honor Code. Our beloved Code requires that everyone
be a good citizen by refraining from lying, cheating, and stealing. In theory, it’s a remarkable policy that would create
a community in which any person would want to live. Unfortunately, like many great theories, the Honor Code does not
appear to be functioning as it was intended. If this is the case, the problem would lie not with the
way it is set up, but rather with those who should be following it.

The pillar of the Code most glaringly abused is the notion that Davidson College students will refrain from stealing. At
first glance, one may think of theft at Davidson as isolated incidents. But upon further inspection, one would find that
theft is moving through our campus like a cancer. One needs to go only as far as Little Library or
the Union Café. In the past two years, management has had to change the layout of the Café due to
theft. Following this change, the staff posted signs stating that food and drink may not be brought back into the
Café because students had taken items out, claiming they had already purchased them. Though these changes may seem small, they
should be noted as major affronts to the Honor Code.

Beyond this problem, things have been getting worse. Many of you may have noticed that the computer monitors in Little
Library have an addition to their displays. That addition is a small message reading, simply, “There have been a number
of thefts in the library this semester. For your own protection, do not leave laptops, backpacks, iPods, wallets, personal items,
etc. unattended anywhere in this building. Thank you.” If that message doesn’t send up red flags to the College community,
nothing will. If our Honor Code is functioning as it should, why do we need this message and the adjustment
to the Union Café?

Unfortunately, the signs of theft extend beyond the Library and the Union. If one were to read The Crier on
any given day, one would see ads describing either blatant theft or a case in which theft was likely. Some
ads even offer rewards to get their stolen goods back. It is unfortunate, but some ads have begun to cry
out about the lack of respect for the Honor Code at Davidson. Perhaps the questions that should arise from all
this are: How have we let ourselves fall so far? How have things come to be like this? Unfortunately, I
don’t have an answer. But the reality is that at least one-third of the Honor Code seems to be compromised.
If we as a community don’t have a problem breaking one part of the Code so openly, what stops us
from violating the rest of it? If our moral integrity is compromised, who is to say that our academic integrity
is not? One can only hope that as time passes, the Honor Code will be more fully respected and does
not become a silver lining that hides a rotten core.

Kevin Cook ’09 is a Biology and Political Science major from Syracuse, NY. Contact him at kecook@davidson.edu.

DesPain article biased, unsubstantiated
STEPHEN VOGEL
Guest Columnist

Bobby DesPain’s opinion article in last week’s Davidsonian, “Reservations about Barack Obama,” was probably one of the most biased articles
I’ve read in the school’s paper to date. His arguments lack the kind of evidence readers—from any political party or
background—need to evaluate this Obama-bashing article. Mentioning Obama’s heritage and childhood abroad, DesPain states that, “apparently, in today’s world this
is enough to hand over nuclear launch codes.” After reading that, I expected to have my surprise quelled by some
facts. Why not justify or briefly explain what he’s saying here? When bashing a political candidate with that much conviction,
he may want to consider the facts. For example: according to The Des Moines Register, Obama said that “as long
as nuclear weapons exist, we’ll retain a strong nuclear deterrent.” Until he provides substance for that argument, most readers will
likely brush it off as mudslinging. If DesPain just wants to make people angry, he’s doing the right thing. I’ve
talked to many friends, including Republicans, about this article and they all express similar disdain.

It would also be wonderful if he could give us some facts regarding the Iraq war while saying we’re “winning”
and in the midst of a “victory.” Sure, this is an opinion article and probably limited to a certain number
of inches, but when saying things like that, it’s nice to have support like national polls or statistics. If he
did this every now and then, we all wouldn’t get the impression he’s just a biased, narrow-minded conservative. DesPain’s article
is so slanted that it sounds as though Obama is running away and the only one in the nation who
thinks we should reconsider or propose an exit plan. Again, many of us would take these opinions more seriously if
they were backed up. That’s all there is to it. If he’s trying to convince people that Obama is not
the best candidate for President of the United States, I respect that. But I do not respect this unjustified way
of going about it. DesPain writes that, “Obama, however, was quite ready to sign a letter attacking a private citizen,
Rush Limbaugh.” If I

See Obama, page 13
