2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Kara JONES
Staff Writer

Davidson students filled the 900 Room Sunday night for the kickoff of a new series from the Lily Foundation entitled
“This I Believe at Davidson.” The event drew a large and eager crowd excited to hear four members of the
faculty and staff openly and unreservedly sharing some of their deepest personal beliefs.

The inspiration for this event came from a series currently aired on NPR similarly named “This I Believe.” In the
1950s, Edward Murrow initiated “This I Believe” as a means of connecting people from all walks of life at a
time when the nation struggled through the Cold War and other tumultuous world changes. Recently, David Gediman revived the series
on NPR so that in the rush of daily life people will be encouraged to pause, think deeply, and speak
honestly about what they believe as well as listen to the beliefs of others. Such openness and effort towards building
a stronger community complies exactly with part of Davidson’s mission.

The four faculty and staff members at this event were Rev. Rob Spach ’84, the College Chaplain; Sharon Green, Associate
Professor of Theater; Hassan El Menyawi, Visiting Assistant Professor of Political Science; and Patty Perillo, Associate Dean of Students and
Director of Residence Life. Each speaker delivered a brief written personal statement of belief after which the floor was open
for questions.

Spach chose to speak on the “unfathomable strength of silence.” Because every sound eventually ends, Spach discussed silence, the brief
pause from the noise, as the creator of space for the eventual revelation of truth. He looks at silence as
something of a forgotten gem. “Sound has its right, but often we fail to appreciate it, or even fear it,”
Spach said.

In her opening words, Green summed up the core of her personal credo with this unusual statement: “I believe in
talking to strangers.” She went on to describe that it is through conversations that...

---

9/10/08 09:09 Other Baker
An officer responded to Baker Sports Complex, in reference to a lost dog. Reporting officer met with a student who
advised that while running the cross country trails, the dog followed him back to the campus. The dog was an
older black lab and was extremely domestic. The officer contacted Cornelius Animal Control to pick the dog up.

9/12/08 07:39 Improperly Parked 408 N Main St.
An officer called Archer's Towing to remove a vehicle parked in the grass in front of the President's House. The
car was towed to Baker Sports Parking lot.

9/12/08 18:00 Suspicious Person 133 Glasgow St.
An officer was contacted in reference to a suspicious person around Martin Ct. The caller advised the subject was a
male, wearing a white t-shirt and handing out flyers. This officer later found the male subject placing flyers on vehicles
parked near Tomlinson Dorm. The subject stated he was just handing out flyers for a nightclub. This officer explained Davidson
College’s policy on soliciting and trespassing. The subject was asked to leave and not return to the Davidson campus.

9/13/08 13:14 Other Watson Science Building
An officer went to Watson Science Building in reference to a trapped opossum that had been reported by unknown persons.
The officer observed a baby opossum on the west side of the building about 8 feet below ground level sitting
on a basement window casing. The officer had a Physical Plant employee that was over at the Visual Arts Center
bring a ladder to the scene and a trash can was borrowed from the building. The Physical Plant employee got
Mr. Opossum into the trash can and onto ground level without incident. The officer at this point made Mr. Opossum
the newest member of the Mecklenburg County catch and release program.

9/14/08 00:06 Fire SAE
An officer, while working a party at SAE, had an unknown person pull the pull station for the fire alarm.
It was determined that the pull station closest to the front door had been pulled. Davidson Fire Department believed it
was an intentional act. Davidson Fire reset the alarm, and the party was allowed to resume. At 00:39 hours, an
officer was informed that there was an unknown cause as to why the alarm had gone off a second time.
Davidson Fire Department was dispatched, the alarm was reset, and the party was not allowed to continue.

9/14/08 14:30 Fire SAE
An officer was dispatched to the SAE house in reference to a fire alarm activation. The officer arrived and the
six house members were all outside. Davidson Fire checked the house and there seems to be a problem with the
alarm. The alarm went off a second time no more than three minutes after it was reset. The one alarm
was allowed to be placed in test mode until it can be corrected. All other alarms are active.

---

News ‘This I believe’ resonates with students, staff

...lence, the brief pause from the noise, as the creator of space for the eventual revelation of truth. He looks
at silence as something of a forgotten gem. “Sound has its right, but often we fail to appreciate it, or
even fear it,” Spach said.

In her opening words, Green summed up the core of her personal credo with this unusual statement: “I believe in
talking to strangers.” She went on to describe that it is through conversations that...We acknowledge one another’s humanity, and that
by communicating we could learn to live more cooperatively, working together on issues such as preserving the world’s resources. While
working in Jamaica, Green discovered that people there are not always rushing from place to place, but stop to make
conversation and learn about each other. She found that many of her core values, such as curiosity, generosity, humility, and
friendship come to fruition out of conversations with strangers.

In his turn, El Manyawi captivated the audience with a brief sketch of his background in Egypt. Fighting for human
rights as he did took its toll eventually; he was imprisoned and tortured for taking a stand on his beliefs.
Looking back on his past, he longs for the naiveté of his youth. When he was young he had ideals
and aspirations that he was willing to fight for, not giving a thought to the consequences. “Ultimately,” he said, “naiveté
leads to wisdom.”

For Perillo, love is the fundamental tenet that holds together all meaning in life. Through loving one another we help
each other become our best possible selves, Perillo believes. As Perillo recollected the deaths of several close family members, and
in asking “what mattered most?” she saw that it was the experiences, people, and relationships along life’s short course. “Here
on this earth we transform our humanity into divinity... It was the love that mattered most,” Perillo said in summation
of her thoughts.

When asked how they came to choosing one belief to talk about, the four admitted it was difficult, but came
to a single point after considering things that connected them with other people and going through the fundamentals in their
lives to find the cornerstone aspect. Another student asked how their life lessons have changed over time. Some said their
beliefs change with time while others said life experiences confirmed what they always believed.

“This I Believe at Davidson” certainly gave everyone present abundant food for thought and later discussion. Someday perhaps we will
see change in our own community at Davidson as a result of such open, honest, and thought-provoking meetings.

This semester, the Lilly Programs will be hosting two other big events for this series. The first is a “Writing
Your Beliefs” workshop on Sat, October 18th from 1:00-2:30 p.m. in the Sprinkle Room. Rosie Molinary will lead students in
writing statements of their own beliefs. On Tuesday, Oct. 28 at 7 p.m., Dan Gediman, executive producer of “This I
Believe” on NPR and co-editor of “This I Believe: The Personal Philosophies of Remarkable Men and Women,” a book based
off of the radio series, will present a lecture on the series and discuss its national and global impact.

You have probably considered all of the traditional post-graduation options... Consider Something Different. You are talented and driven. You know
you have a bright future ahead of you. You seem to have it all figured out except what you are
going to do with all of your ability when you graduate. If you are like so many other students, you
don’t realize that you can pursue a career in management whether you studied accounting and marketing or anthropology and modern
literature.

McMaster-Carr employs an imaginative approach to developing management talent. Assignments in areas such as market research, finance, or distribution will
give you valuable insight into how our company operates out of multiple locations. Working on centralized teams like purchasing, software
development, and catalog design will give you exposure to the many other ways we utilize our talent. No matter where
you start, you will learn about our unique business from the inside out. With demonstrated knowledge and achievement, you will
be challenged to manage people, processes, and projects. At McMaster-Carr, advancement is directed not by your undergraduate major or tenure,
but rather by your ability to challenge and improve our business practices.

We are known as a one-stop shop for the supplies that keep the operations of many companies up and running.
Our customers span many segments of the marketplace. Their businesses range from automotive production to biotech research and from stadium
construction to alternative energy exploration. We inventory and sell over 465,000 items (think nuts, bolts, and much much more) out
of our 5 national distribution centers. You want to go from a great school to a great company. Consider starting
your career in our vibrant, collegial environment where you will be challenged to grow professionally and encouraged to have a
life outside of work.

We will be coming to campus to interview for management opportunities at each of our exciting locations:
- Atlanta, GA
- Chicago, IL
- Cleveland, OH
- Los Angeles, CA
- Princeton, NJ

Resume Submission Deadline: September 29, 2008
Information Session: October 6, 2008
Campus Interviews: October 7, 2008

McMASTER-CARR
www.mcmaster.com/careers
