THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2008

Palin’s record reveals lack of leadership

Democrats, media

LAURA SHILLINGBURG, Guest Writer

Gov. Sarah Palin, the latest addition to the “straight-talk express,” is not leadership material. More importantly, she has next to
no experience, despite claims otherwise. How qualified is this woman, really? And do she and McCain offer any hope of
change for our country? The answer is a resounding “no.”

Palin’s past “experience” (it can hardly be called that) certainly doesn’t recommend her for any part in running the country.
Wasilla, where she was mayor, has a population of five to nine thousand, depending on who you ask. Some high
schools are bigger than that! And yet, she couldn’t manage to run it herself. According to native Anne Kilkenny, who
attended quite a few City Council meetings, “most of the actual work of running this small city was turned over
to an administrator,” in part due to the “precipitous firings which had given rise to a recall campaign.” Palin had
been encouraged by party members to hire the administrator, but eventually fired him for daring to have his own ideas.
One of the previous firings which got her into this trouble was that of the Wasilla police chief for having
“intimidated” her. Such a strong woman she is, refusing to play that gender card.

As for the finances, when she was sworn in, the town had zero debt, but by the time she left
office, it had a whopping $22 million—no small number for a town of its size. She didn’t spend it on
necessities, like maintaining the sewer system; instead, she remodeled her office and built a sports arena that’s still costing more
than it’s bringing in. Further, she lowered taxes for business, but raised taxes for residents. So much for tax cuts.

The anti-corruption thing is also a hoax, as usual. According to one source, “The GOP is kind of like organized
crime up here. It’s corrupt and arrogant. They’re all rich because they do private sweetheart deals with the oil companies,
and they can destroy anyone. ... Once Palin became mayor, she became part of that inner circle.”

Palin then moved up in the world, becoming Governor of Alaska. Don’t be fooled by the media’s spin: Alaska is
the largest state land-wise, but it’s the fourth-smallest in population with only 670,000 residents. Another interesting fact: the 13th district
of Illinois has a population of 781,000. Obama was state senator of that district for eight years, with over 100,000
more constituents than Palin. She hasn’t quite made two years yet—who has more experience again?

Palin’s past experience (it can hardly be called that) certainly doesn’t recommend her for any part in running the country.
As far as experience with energy resources, can we say conflict of interest? Palin was Chair of the Alaska Oil
and Gas Conservation Commission, but lacked real experience in those matters. Though her only real duty was calling meetings, she
earned $122,000 a year. She then quit—not because she was protesting corruption, as she led the media to believe, but
because she hated her job. Additionally, her husband’s job at BP Amoco earns him $92,000 a year; the average Alaskan
earns $33,000. Palin once advocated a pipeline that would cost Alaska revenue, jobs, and economic growth because she wanted an
“All-Alaskan” pipeline. She then denied it, and later claimed that she’d wanted it all along. Apparently, she can have her
cake and eat it too.

Can we really expect change from a ticket so reminiscent of the current administration? McCain and Palin’s policies would be
disastrous for the country. We cannot afford to put two people in office whose wealth leaves them disconnected from the
rest of the country and oblivious to the hardships ordinary Americans face. I only ask that before you vote, do
a little non-partisan background research and decide, without influence of the media, if Sarah Palin is right for the nation.

Laura Shillingburg ‘09 is a theatre major from Atlanta, Ga. Contact her at lashillingburg@davidson.edu.

Davidson offers warm welcome to all

PATRICIA REID, Guest Writer

As nearly 500 eager freshman faces flood Davidson’s campus, emotions run the gamut from eager anticipation and excitement to nervousness
and homesickness. But freshmen are not the only new kids on the block. Transfer students and the latest additions to
Davidson’s faculty and staff are beginning their first year, too. Amidst the hustle and bustle of settling the freshmen into
campus life, these other new additions are often overlooked by the majority of the student body.

Interestingly enough, age and previous exposure to university life do not seem to differentiate the experiences new members of the
Davidson community share from those of the freshmen. While freshmen are greeted by a brigade of upperclassmen who assist them
in lugging minifridges, foot lockers, and boxes up dorm stairs, they are not the only ones enjoying the benefits of
a hearty Wildcat welcome to campus. Kristin Schrauder, a new member of the political science department, remembered feeling welcomed on
campus, and said, “everyone was super-friendly and accommodating.” Professor Hillard, a recent addition to the English department, agreed. When he
first arrived on campus he “was struck by the way in which the campus and town were fluid. There was
no discernible difference—no walls, no gates.” Davidson lived up to its reputation as an open and inviting campus. It became
quite clear to Hillard that the “school obviously cared about the environment.”

Davidson’s welcoming program does not solely consist of Freshman Orientation week. It extends to faculty members as well. In Hillard’s
words, “Davidson has a robust new faculty orientation.” The week was filled with various opportunities to meet other members of
the community. “The entire welcoming experience is a deliberate action here at Davidson,” a satisfied Hillard elaborated.

Freshmen David Barton and Colleen James agreed that they both felt “excited and a little bit nervous” when they first
set foot on campus. One of the striking similarities uniting all of Davidson’s newcomers is their desire for friendship. Hillard
said he looked forward to “getting to know my students as thinkers,” while James anticipates meeting new people andforming lasting
friendships. Schrauder, who began working at Davidson over the summer, looked forward to the increasing level of interaction she will
experience with other staff members and students as the fall semester progresses. While Schrauder’s social life at Davidson primarily exists
within the boundaries of Chambers, students report that their social lives have blossomed outside of those residing within their dorms.
Barton felt as though he has “met so many different people,” and James felt as though she has successfully been
able to make friends with people on her floor, classmates, and others on campus. Despite Davidson’s efforts to ease the
transition, the process has not been entirely effortless and has at times been slightly intimidating. Not knowing a familiar face
on campus can make move-in day a bit daunting. Students, faculty, and staff share fears of whether or not they
will be able to keep up with their schoolwork and class expectations. Hillard, for instance, said he hopes the new
writing program he is in the process of launching will live up to the high expectations he has set. Newcomers
are not simply worried about making friends or succeeding academically, but also struggle with leaving family and friends behind. Students
seem to put on a brave face, convinced that their departure from home will prove to be more difficult for
those they left behind. Barton explained that he “was very ready for this transition, and that it was probably harder
for [his] mom to say good-bye” than it was for him. James concurred, feeling as if the transition was smoother
for her than for her parents. Parents’ weekend, however, is just upon the horizon, as is fall break, and by
then, new students, faculty, and staff alike will hopefully be well-adjusted to the Davidson community, and enthusiastically proclaiming that it
really is a great day to be a Wildcat. As a freshman myself, I have been thoroughly impressed with the
welcome I and other new community members have received. From the moment my dad and I drove on campus and
saw the welcome banner, I have felt at home. The carefully planned out events, group activities, and friendly atmosphere truly
distinguish Davidson from other colleges. New members of the college family feel as though they have not left their families
behind, but they have gained a new family. For me, the best part of my welcome to Davidson is knowing
that Davidson not only embraces incoming students with open arms, but the college embraces parents, faculty, and staff too. To
me, that exemplifies Davidson’s celebrated warmth. Patricia Reid ’12 is undeclared. She is from Orlando, Fla. Contact her at pareid@davidson.edu.

Reveal hypocrisy in attacks on Palin

When Nancy Pelosi was elected Speaker of the House in 2007, the fact that a woman had reached the third
highest office in the country was a big deal. She described it as “an historic moment for the women of
America ... for which [they] have waited over 200 years.” The achievement “broke the marble ceiling” for daughters everywhere. Now
with Gov. Sarah Palin as only the second woman on a major party’s presidential ticket—and the first one ever with
a real chance at victory—Nancy Pelosi says, “Sarah Palin is not the right choice.” Odd. One would think that someone
who achieved such an historic moment herself would also celebrate a woman running for the number two spot. Pelosi was
not alone in dismissing Palin, either. Gloria Steinem also rejected the Alaskan heroine, as did the National Organization for Women.

Bossy DesPAIN

Palin is the latest person to be slandered for being a conservative and a woman. Stranger still, Oprah Winfrey has
refused to have Palin on her show. Oprah is a committed Obama supporter, but more importantly she is a businesswoman.
The more people that watch her show, the more money she makes. Sarah Palin is currently the most scintillating piece
of news. Over 37 million people watched her accept the Republican vice-presidential nomination. She currently has the touch of King
Midas when it comes to ratings. By having Palin on her show, Oprah would have a chance to regain the
viewers she lost by so openly supporting Obama. It would also show that she is not completely a partisan hack
like the rest of the mainstream media. In reality, the so-called feminists like Pelosi and Steinem are dishonest. They do
not care about the state of women in the United States, but rather the state of liberalism. In truth, the
left does not support minorities; they support liberals. If those liberals happen to be minorities, then all the better. The
left supports individuals who believe that the only way to advance in life and create success is through government. Citizens
cannot be trusted to make decisions for themselves. The solution to any problem can be found in government. The left
even goes as far as to believe that the more of a minority you are, the more help you need
to succeed. The left has responded with hate. Harsh caricatures have been drawn and harsh words screamed, merely because overwhelmingly
qualified individuals were conservative. Thus, when the left is faced with the stories of Clarence Thomas, Condoleezza Rice, Michael Steele,
and now Sarah Palin, their only answer is to smear them. These individuals pose a threat to the liberal establishment
because their successes were created independent of government. They may be minorities, but they reject the left’s premise that they
should be dependent on government. The left, and its various groups that claim to support minorities, has responded with hate.
Harsh caricatures have been drawn and harsh words screamed, merely because overwhelmingly qualified individuals were conservative. Palin is the latest
person to be slandered for being a conservative and a woman. The good news is that Palin, like the others,
seems undisturbed by the hate. Rather, she seems to strengthen with each cheap shot—but then again, what about her nature
would suggest otherwise? After all, she is a pitbull with lipstick.

Bobby DesPain ’11 is undeclared. He is from St. Louis, Mo. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.

Corrections Box

Last week's article “Palin promises fresh eyes” was edited to incorrectly state that Sarah Palin was the former mayor of
Juneau, Alaska. In actuality, she was mayor of Wasilla.
