SEE PAGE 7
Young Republicans don't offer vegetarian option at cookout

SEE PAGE 2
Costa Del Mar admits, “Monsoon Party” a bad idea

SEE PAGE 9,453,019
Pagan bacchanalia actually just Dance Ensemble practice

Tall ginger athlete admits dying his hair, loses street cred

SEE PETER BRUTON

Your Davidsonian Honor Section Editors:
James Boswell
Alex Hoyt

Chairman of Operation Crimson Gift:
Tarlton

Test Tube Baby:
Thad Sieracki

The New Summer Interns:
Owen, Silva & Cowden

Note: The Yow! is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

WEDNESDAY APRIL 9 2008

THE ISSUES ISSUE

UBERTAS

I know you are but what am I?

Rare Law-Abiding Driver Slows for Yellow Light, Nearly Causes Pile-Up

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER
April 9, 2008

Mehmet Civi

On Monday afternoon, the intersection of East Catawba Avenue and North Main Street in Cornelius played host to a stunning
execution of safe, law-abiding defensive driving. The prudent and law-abiding driving of Geo owner Kristin Woods startled other vehicles and
nearly caused a pile-up Monday evening.

North Meck High sophomore Kristin Woods was heading northbound on Highway 115 just before 5 p.m. when she noticed the
flashing yellow lights at the T-intersection in the distance. A February graduate of the Cornelius Driving School, Woods knew exactly
what to do: “I was driving my little brother, Timothy, to soccer practice, so I needed to be as safe
as possible,” the 16-year-old said. “As we approached the intersection, I simply kept my foot on the brake pedal, without
pressing down.”

Because she removed her right foot from the accelerator, Woods’ 1997 Geo Metro naturally slowed to a necessary and precautionary
20 mph. Additionally, having her foot calmly poised above the brake allowed Woods to be prepared to stop had she
encountered unexpected traffic in the intersection.

“The slower speed surely gave her time to scan the entire intersection,” commented onlooker Wes Brown. “Maybe a little too
much time. I’m just glad no one was seriously injured by this random lawfulness.”

Mystery Student Pays with Cash in Union; Incurs Wrath of All of Davidson

At 6:13 last Thursday, the Union Café was rocked by what Tom Ross is calling “a deplorable action.” Michael Appleby
'08 was waiting in line when the unthinkable occurred. “All of a sudden the line came to a grinding halt.
I heard, for the first time in years, the sound of a cash register drawer opening and the jingle of
coins. I couldn’t see who it was but I was sure it was a Townie or the parent of a
prospective student. I can’t believe it was one of our own, I feel so betrayed.”

Union Café employee Andrew Duncombe was at the register during the transaction. “I haven’t had to count out change since
Parents’ Weekend. It was awful—all that filthy money changing hands—I like it when we stick to the plastic.”

Bystander Jessie Brock ’11 got a good glimpse of the offender: “I’ve seen him leaving his 10:30 class, I think
he lives in Cannon. I just don’t know why he would use real money during Meal Plan hours.”

Anyone with information is urged to contact Campus Police to aid in their investigation. The suspect is believed to be
carrying an abundance of loose change. He is to be considered...armed and dangerous.

Junior Girl Reboots the Old Ovarian Operating System

When Duke dormitory resident Ashley Carmichael woke up Tuesday morning, she trudged slowly, hesitantly, to the bathroom. Five minutes later,
she bolted out the door and skipped back down the hallway to her room. What happened during those five short
minutes that could have produced such a dramatic, magical turnaround?

“It’s Game Day for the Crimson Tide!” exclaimed Carmichael, a junior History major from Greenville, N.C.

Carmichael had been growing increasingly nervous over the past few days because she had yet to begin trolling for vampires,
normally scheduled for the first full weekend of every month. She and her boyfriend, senior Trevor Thornton, last hopped on
the good foot and did the bad thing on Friday, April 4, and despite the weather, he did not wear
a raincoat.

“Trev and I almost always sleeve it to the beaver, but for some reason, that night, we...just...didn’t. I was just
sure that I was flipping the bird at the Chinese government!”

No need to worry, Ashley, Miss Scarlett’s finally come home to Tara.

THE DAVIDSONIAN | 9

Bex. The Davidsonian Appears on Montel Williams

When Stephen Curry waltzed onto the stage of Conan O’Brien’s New York set, he expected some good-natured laughs, gentle pacing,
and relatively good ratings. Turkish delight: Mehmet Civi dazzled 2.3 million viewers last night. What Conan and Steph failed to
figure into their plans was Turkish point guard Mehmet Can Civi’s simultaneous appearance on Montel Williams. Civi, a 6-1 guard
from Istanbul, Turkey, delighted the crowd with his sharp wit, savvy political commentary, and break-dancing skills.

Cystic Fibrosis 5K-Fun Run Canceled for Rainstorm; Cystic Fibrosis Forges On

A mid-morning drizzle and ominous forecast was enough for Conner House to cancel their annual 5K-Fun Run for Cystic Fibrosis.
The decision was a totally logical one, claimed Conner Service Chair Tiffany Puddles, since diseases often die down during bad
weather. The decision to cancel this 5K made total sense, because cystic fibrosis often takes time-outs during inclement weather.

Much to everyone’s shock, however, patients afflicted by Cystic Fibrosis throughout the greater Charlotte area continued to be ravaged by
their fluid-filled lungs all mucky afternoon long.

“If we’d known the disease was this stubborn, we would have picked something a little more relenting, like AIDS or
SARS.”

The 5K has been rescheduled for next fall, by which time most patients who would have benefitted from the proceeds
will be beyond saving.

A 2007 poll conducted by Istanbul magazine Fanatyk Gazetesi ranked Civi as the third most popular Turk of all time
behind Hidayet Turkoglu of the Orlando Magic and first president Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. Civi looked dashingly cosmopolitan in his linen
Velour suit and Gucci loafers. He fielded Montel’s complex questions about multilateralism, the democratic primaries, and the Lula Bell Laundry
Service with disarming insouciance. He also took the opportunity to dispel the rumors that he has 40 wives (he has
seven), that he is the descendant of Sultan Mehmet II (sadly false), and that he had a full beard by
the age of eight (his facial hair still stalls out after a week).

CCR “thrilled to be back in Senior Satellite” SEE PAGE 2

Theatre professor's script “Waiting for Tenure” wins major awards SEE PAGE 8

Decision Davidson autograph session deemed inappropriate SEE PAGE 12
