2 THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2008

Alpha Phi Alpha voter drive makes final push

MEIKAELA ZWIERYZNSKI
Staff Writer

With the deadline for voter registration approaching, students across campus are filling out last-minute forms to ensure that they have a chance to cast their vote, and many students can thank the men of Alpha Phi Alpha for making that process easier.

Davidson’s Tau Omicron Chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha has been helping people register to vote for nearly two months. With tables set up across campus and stacks of voter registration forms in hand, the group has registered over 116 students, representing about one-sixteenth of the student body. The efforts, completely non-partisan, are a core part of the organization’s strategic plan.

Clint Smith ’10, the chapter’s Vice President, spoke on the group’s motivations. “Registering people to vote has always been a part of the Alpha platform,” Smith said. “But due to the magnitude of this year’s election, we deemed it necessary to step up to the plate even more.”

And step up they have. Various members of the group work the tables two to three times a week. They have noted that many of the newly registered are freshmen, and the Alphas are excited that they have helped to ensure all Davidson students have a say in such an important election. Smith also noted the specific importance of North Carolina in the upcoming election due to its status as a swing state. Many students have also realized that their vote could have more of an impact here in North Carolina compared to solid red or blue home states. Regardless, whether based on reasons of strategy or convenience, many students have chosen to register and vote here in Davidson.

Voting registration drives have been prevalent across campus from other organizations as well, such as the Young Democrats and College Republicans. Smith saw the coinciding efforts as complementary, covering as many bases as possible. “There can never be too many avenues for someone to register,” Smith said.

Smith noted that most students who were approached in the voter registration drive were already registered. Therefore, Davidson students should surely have their voices heard in this election. This was the core of the Alpha mission. “Voting is the fundamental basis of our democracy, so Alpha believes it is important for everyone to have their voice heard regardless of political affiliation,” Smith said.

Community service is a central theme

SGA creates ‘Safe Space’

KARA JONES
Staff Writer

The Student Government Association spent last Thursday’s meeting hearing out student group leaders on issues of student well-being. KC Currie began the evening’s business by presenting the “Safe Spaces” proposal from the GSA (Gay Straight Alliance) and campus health advisors. This educating program would work with various student groups (e.g. residence halls, fraternities, eating houses, sports teams) in workshops centered on homophobia prevention at Davidson. After the training, these groups would vote on whether or not to declare their groups as “safe spaces” for LGBT members.

When asked whether groups not wishing to participate might feel criticized, Currie responded that the “Safe Space” objective is to create an environment for education, respect, and dialogue whether or not a particular group agrees with LGBT lifestyles. The GSA and health advisors hope to begin training sessions later this month.

Following last week’s look at the ATC fall distribution, Robert Lassiter discussed some major cuts to the fall budget in crew, roller hockey, and funding for the labyrinth. Members from the crew team and roller hockey team eachMade appeals for more funding than they had been allocated. Instead of buying a new eight-man shell, the crew requested $7,000 to refurbish an existing shell and purchase a new Jon boat for coaching and safety purposes. This would at least keep the team in shape and competitive this year. The roller hockey team requested money for two new pairs of skates for prospective players as well as jerseys for the whole team.

Lately, lots of discussion on campus has revolved around building a permanent labyrinth at Davidson. Lauren Cunningham represented Ars Longa and the subset labyrinth committee at the SGA meeting to discuss the uses and cost of a 30-foot diameter labyrinth in Hobart Park. It is intended to be a meditative tool to clear the mind, relieve stress, and allow for problem-solving and reflection. In the discussion that followed, some suggested it could not only be used personally but also in groups such as religious organizations or classes. Multiple people could walk the labyrinth at the same time, and with several lights, including a blue light, installed at Hobart Park, people could take the walk at any time of night or day. An SGA member brought up the point that some might wrongfully consider it a substitute for the overcrowded counseling center. To this, labyrinth advocates answered it would be built to complement professional counseling rather than replace it. The brick labyrinth costs $30,000 for the kit and installation but would not need much upkeep. The labyrinth committee now asks that the ATC give $5,000 towards the cause. $20,000 has already been pledged, and the committee hopes to acquire the remaining $5,000 through fundraisers. Right now, the ATC is reluctant to take part in labyrinth funding because of concern for bylaws that do not allow for capital improvements on campus; however, it is possible that a labyrinth sidesteps this category. The SGA will vote on this and the other issues Thursday.

For Alpha Phi Alpha. The Davidson Alphas all serve as mentors in the local Big Brother/Big Sister program and work with the Alpha Academy, a sexual education program for adolescent males. President and Vice President of Alpha Phi Alpha, Manny Clark ’09 and Clint Smith, will be holding the Pharaoh’s Ball on November 1st to celebrate their fifth-year anniversary. All proceeds will benefit the March of Dimes, an organization that supports premature babies and their families.

Wait to assist students in voter registration. They are allowed to come to the bar to hang out. The goal is for the bar to coexist with other programming, although the bar’s being open will not be contingent upon another event.

ABERNETHY AWARDS APPLICATIONS DUE 10/30/2008

Again this year, funds from the George L. Abernethy Endowment will be available to support worthy initiatives by current first-year, sophomore, or junior students. [It is possible for us to fund a senior who expects to complete all research work prior to graduation.] Individual awards fall into one of the following categories:
1. Independent student research, either in the US or abroad.
2. Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year or the summer.

At the request of the donor, applications are limited to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences. Application forms are available in the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283). Completed application forms are due back in this office no later than 5:00 pm on Thursday, October 30, 2008. The announcement of awards should occur prior to the exam period of the fall semester.