THE DAVIDSONIAN Lite — PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 2008 17

Questionable progress in religious diversity

CHARLES HORWITZ AND NAFISA ISA
Guest Columnists

Three years ago, Davidson College took a long-overdue step forward by allowing non-Christians to serve on its Board of Trustees. The overwhelming majority of Davidson students, faculty, and administration rightly applauded the Trustees’ decision, which could not have occurred without the tireless efforts of former President Bobby Vagt and current President Tom Ross, who chaired the ad hoc committee on the issue. Despite negative repercussions from some older Trustees, the college community hailed the decision as a necessary step in fulfilling Davidson’s Statement of Purpose as an institution whose loyalty to the Christian tradition “necessarily includes openness to and respect for the world’s various religious traditions.” Yet there is a footnote to this progress of which we fear few Davidson students are aware.

The newly amended Article I, section 4 of the College’s bylaws reads: “As part of the historic commitment of Davidson to the Reformed Tradition of the Christian faith, the Nominating Committee shall ensure that at least 80% of all elected Trustees are active members of a Christian church.” In other words, non-Christians or Christians without church affiliation may fill no more than nine of the 44 positions on the Board. The bylaws justify this limitation as a measure to honor and protect Davidson’s Presbyterian heritage, yet several factors cast doubt on the appropriateness and progressiveness of this limitation.

To many outside the Davidson community, the limitation appears not as a commendable means of honoring our past but rather as an unwelcoming sign of intolerance. In our capacities as tour guides and representatives of Davidson’s Jewish and Muslim students, we both have spoken with several parents and prospective students who ask us if it is really true that Davidson limits the number of non-Christians on its Board of Trustees. Shamefully, we must answer these people “Yes.”

Although the rule does not technically qualify as a quota, which would require a specific composition of the Board of Trustees, one must consider the connotations of religious limitations in academia. To some professors and parents with whom we have discussed the Davidson statute, the rule reminds them of the infamous quotas that limited the numbers of Jews and Catholics at American institutions of higher learning in the early 20th century. Those measures now do not seem like noble efforts to honor the past; they are thought of as intolerant and anti-progressive.

By mentioning such examples we do not at all mean to suggest that Davidson is an intolerant institution. We only wish to bring attention to what is not an uncommon perception of our school’s regulations. Davidson may mean the measure as a way to protect the College’s heritage, yet one must remember that what is protective to one person can be offensive and exclusionary to another.

Perhaps more important than Davidson’s outward appearance is that, while the 20 percent limitation may honor Davidson’s past, it fails to honor the College’s present and future. Not only does the statute limit the service of Jews, Muslims, and other non-Christians, it limits the number of Christians who do not hold membership to a church. President Ross noted in an interview that Trustee candidates have turned down positions on the Board because they are Christian but are not affiliated with any church.

Not only does the number of non-Christian students grow larger every year, but an increasing number of Davidson students do not identify themselves as religious or church-affiliated. The more “non-active members of a Christian Church” come to Davidson, the more unrepresentative the 20 percent limitation becomes.

The statute demands inevitable reconsideration as the face of Davidson changes. While we laud Davidson’s recent efforts toward inclusion and diversity, we submit that religious diversity presents a sorely neglected part of the growing discussion of diversity at Davidson, which is often limited only to race.

Charles Horwitz ’08 is the outgoing President of Davidson College Hillel, and Nafisa Isa ’08 is the outgoing President of the Muslim Students Association.

Contact

In politics, true character is often shrouded by lofty promises and idealism. The most recent example has been Barack Hussein Obama. Perhaps the only way to gauge politicians like Obama is to judge the company they keep. In Obama's case, this company does not paint a picture that deserves to be hung in the White House.

Rev. Jeremiah Wright has a history of anti-Americanism and racism. He traveled to Libya with Louis Farrakhan to meet with the terrorist, Muammar al-Gaddafi. Rather than “God Bless America,” he prefers to say “God Damn America.” He considers 9/11 “America's chickens coming home to roost.” His sermons are filled with hate and disdain for the United States and its citizens. How can Obama be comfortable around people who have such disdain for the country he wishes to lead?

Understandably, Barack Obama has tried to distance himself from such a man, but has stopped short of disowning him. He called Wright “an old uncle, who sometimes says things I don't agree with,” but Obama “can no more disown him than...the black community.” The problem is that Wright is not family; Obama is not intrinsically linked to Wright, as he would be to someone like his mother. He chose not only to associate with Wright, but also to be mentored by him. He has listened to Wright’s sermons and donated money to his church for over 20 years. The title of Obama's book, “The Audacity of Hope” apparently came from one of Wright's sermons.

Now why would Obama call the man whom he has listened to on a very personal level for so long a “crazy uncle?” What does that say about Obama if his “crazy uncle” inspires him? Also, in what manner is the disownment of Wright linked to theDisownment of the black community? Is Obama claiming that the entire black community thinks the same way as Wright? Obama's inability to reject Wright calls his judgment into question. While Wright simply hates America in what he says, Bill Ayers can only be described as a terrorist. As a part of the Weather Underground, he bombed the NYPD Headquarters, the Capitol, and the Pentagon, whose bombing Ayers described as being “absolutely ideal.” All told, Ayers was responsible for 30 bombings and several more attempted bombings, one of which was planned to occur at a party for soldiers from Fort Dix, New Jersey. The only reason he is not in jail is because the FBI improperly investigated him. Even with this history, Barack Obama appeared at Bill Ayers’ house in 1995 to begin his run for the Illinois State Senate. Their relationship continued with Ayers donating to Obama's campaign and both serving on the board of a philanthropic foundation. When asked about Ayers, Obama responded, “This is a guy who lives in my neighborhood, who's a professor of English in Chicago, who I know and who I have not received some official endorsement from. He's not somebody who I exchange ideas with on a regular basis. And the notion that somehow as a consequence of me knowing somebody who engaged in detestable acts 40 years ago when I was eight years old somehow reflects on me and my values, doesn't make much sense.” Ayers, however, has not exactly been repentant of his crimes, saying that he does not “regret setting bombs” and that he feels he “didn't do enough.” Also, the fact that Ayers was a terrorist in the 1970s does not make him any less of a terrorist today. Engaging with Ayers in any way other than mere coincidence speaks volumes about Obama's judgment. Underneath the rhetoric of hope and change, there lies a Barack Obama who keeps the company of individuals who have little respect for the United States. How can Obama be comfortable around people who have such disdain for the country he wishes to lead? If elected, where do such relations leave the citizens of the United States? Bobby DesPain ’11 is from St. Louis, Mo. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.

Obama declines Lincoln-Douglas debate

Last week, Hillary Clinton proposed a Lincoln-Douglas debate between Sen. Obama and herself. The 90-minute contest would consist of alternating two-minute segments during which each candidate would speak, have the opportunity to ask questions of his or her opponent, and respond in turn. Sen. Obama immediately dismissed the proposed debate, noting that the candidates have already debated 21 times. What distinction between the candidates' policy positions or leadership styles could emerge in this debate that hasn’t in the previous 21? To this reasonable argument, Sen. Clinton ought to respond that this is a new kind of debate—a new kind of debate fit for the new kind of politician Obama claims to be. More than any other presidential candidate, Sen. Obama has been concerned to reinvigorate our democracy. The 21 debates Sen. Obama references were not true debates. On the contrary, they were a succession of sound bites. Perhaps the requirement that candidates craft policies on such weighty subjects as the struggle against Islamic extremism or the pending Social Security crisis in less than two minutes accounts for the shoddy policies the government often enacts. While in this proposed debate the candidates would speak in two-minute segments, they would be able to address the same subject over the course of several segments. No moderator, seemingly afflicted with attention deficit disorder, would prevent the candidates from spending more than six and thirteen-seventeenths minutes debating America’s policy toward Iran. Without a moderator, this debate, unlike its predecessors, would allow the candidates to engage each other. By directing the debate, the moderator inhibits organic argumentation—the most basic mark of a substantive debate. Few differences exist between Sens. Clinton and Obama on policy. Because of this, some argue against the utility of another debate. Those opposed fail to understand that the unreasonable time constraints and inability to argue that characterized previous debates have prevented the emergence of more substantive differences. Whereas Sen. Clinton’s healthcare proposal includes a mandate, Sen. Obama’s plan does not. Underlying this is a basic philosophical difference. A debate in which the candidates could argue their differing political philosophies would serve the voters well. In 1858, Abraham Lincoln and Stephen Douglas debated slavery in eight 90-minute debates. Thousands attended. Those in attendance at any two of these debates probably gained more information about these men than voters have learned about Sens. Clinton and Obama in their 21 debates, combined. Contemporary debates are patronizing; they presume that voters lack the interest and patience for a lengthy discussion about the day’s pressing issues. Our democracy is in dire straits if it lacks the patience for a profound discussion about the myriad challenges it faces. More than any other presidential candidate, Sen. Obama has been concerned to reinvigorate our democracy. He calls for “a new kind of politics”—politics of hope not fear, of unity not division. Sen. Obama’s incontestable intellect—he’s among the most thoughtful presidential candidates in recent history—coupled with his desire to improve our democracy should lead him to embrace this debate. Yet, standing in the way of his intellect and reformist zeal are the advantages of the status quo. In light of his poor performance in the debate that preceded the Pennsylvania primary, he knows well that debating renders oneself vulnerable. When the status quo benefits a politician, he’s reluctant to disrupt it. But didn’t Sen. Obama begin his campaign as a new kind of politician—a politician who exhorts Americans to shed their cynicism? That’s not the same Sen. Obama who declined this much-needed debate. Instead, this is a conventional politician. Someone ought to explain to Sen. Obama that it’s this sort of transformation that makes Americans cynical about politics. Zach Bennett ’11 is a Political Science major from Lancaster, Pa. Contact him at zabennett@davidson.edu.