THE DAVIDSONIAN

The anti-war Left loves to declare that they "support the troops, but not the war." So far, that claim is unsubstantiated. The city of Berkeley, Calif. is the latest entity to attempt this claim. On Jan. 29, Berkeley’s city council passed a resolution stating “that the Marine recruiting office is not welcome in our city, and if recruiters choose to stay, they do so as uninvited and unwelcome intruders.” The resolution also stated that the city applauds residents and organizations, such as Code Pink, that may volunteer to impede, passively or actively, by nonviolent means, the efforts of the Marine Corps recruiting station. Berkeley has sent a clear message: they do not want and do not support the Marines.

The Berkeley City Council reaffirmed this sentiment in its declaration of support for Code Pink. The council granted it a sound permit and a parking space directly in front of the Marine Recruitment Station. Not only did Berkeley insult the Marines, they directly favored the free speech rights of one group over another. Pro-military groups were not given a parking space. However, it is not a shock that the anti-Marine council would favor the anti-American Code Pink.

Since the Marine Recruitment Office came to Berkeley, Code Pink has been out front harassing anyone attempting to enter. They wear orange prison jumpsuits, chain themselves to the office door, paint bloody handprints on the window, and replace the word “Recruitment” with “Assassination.” These actions are led by a group headed by Medea Benjamin. A supporter of Hugo Chavez and Fidel Castro, Benjamin has repeatedly been arrested for interrupting speeches by the president and members of his Cabinet. After the city council’s decision, she declared, “We are the defenders of democracy, the upholders of the Constitution. If it weren’t for people like the people of Berkeley, standing up for what they believe, we’d be living under Hitler.”

In reality, it was the blood and courage of millions of U.S. soldiers that freed Europe and saved the world, not the people of Berkeley, chained to a Marine Recruitment Office. Most Americans love and support the Marines and thus were outraged at Berkeley’s blatant disrespect. Some thought the Marines should pull out of Berkeley and use their new Parris Island. Like Sen. Jim DeMint’s proposal: deny all federal funding to Berkeley ($2.5 million). If the city of Berkeley wishes to insult the military, it should not expect to receive the country’s tax dollars.

Benjamin responded, “I hope they’re not acting out of intimidation. Berkeley is a city of peace, and a recruiting station does not fit Berkeley's values.” I would agree. The Marines—representing honor, courage, and sacrifice—do not fit in Berkeley.

Bobby DesPain ’11 is a declared supporter from St. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.

PERSPECTIVES WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2008 9

Friends alleviate pressure of Davidson

We are the “O.C.” generation: a group of college students who spent many of their high school days glued to TV, wondering how it was possible for cute little Marissa to go from preteen to free-spirited lesbian to college-bound killer in three seasons. That being said, we watch “kids” like Ryan, Seth, Marissa, and Summer deal with their grown-up problems in a fictional world, yet we very rarely see these kids handle the everyday woes of the average college student.

At Davidson as well as any other college across the country, students live with their heads quivering nervously above the ever-rising sea of tests, papers, friends, family, meetings, and hanging out. This annoying body of responsibility comes chock-full of endless obligations and transitions leading us to question how happy we truly are when overcommitted. At what point does being involved morph into drowning? And when is it OK to cry uncle?

At Davidson as well as any other college across the country, students live with their heads quivering nervously above the ever-rising sea of tests, papers, friends, family, meetings, and hanging out. Although college can truly be some of the best years of our lives, it can also become a real buzz-kill at times. We’ve all wished an untimely death upon “that kid” who asks about a paper not due for two weeks and then takes a rough draft to the professor in one of those sweet, clear paper folders. We’ve all gotten back a test that was a surefire “A” and become puzzled by the strange roundness of the letter staring back from the first page. We’ve all felt angry, left out, stupid, inferior (insert more demeaning adjectives that the average Davidson student feels on an everyday basis) whether we like to admit it or not.

The first few weeks of the second semester offer some especially hard days for the average Davidsonian, both physically and mentally. During these first weeks, we traipse around in freezing temperatures and dark skies and wish to go back to the carefree days of the holiday break. We balance first-week meetings, first-week classes, and everyone’s favorite “no-sleep-til-Brooklyn” weekend: self-selection. I think I speak for the whole of existence when I say that during this month, life can be exhausting and very few wait for you to catch your breath. But what about those who do wait for us? What about the silver lining of the Davidson bubble—the ability to make some of the closest friends you will ever have?have? The friend who will buy you yogurt pretzels from the union when your boyfriend is being a you-know-what, who will click the little OK button to keep your fishbowl computer from deleting your paper, and who will help you come up with Davidsonian article ideas when you’ve got less than nada. In the immortal words of Ben Lee, we’re all in this together, and that’s what we have going for us in the daily fight against mental breakdown at Davidson College. I know, I know, hey Assemble, why don’t you go sit in a circle with your friends and sing kum-ba-yah. Well, to that I’d say that I'd love to, but my roommate took the guitar with her to Italy. I do make a mean s’more though. We put ourselves under a lot of strain here at Davidson, and we must embrace methods to both acknowledge and address it. We should never be ashamed to solicit help when we need it—be it from friends, family, or counselors.

Ashley Semble ’09 is a History major from Winston-Salem, N.C. Contact her at assemble@davidson.edu

Petit’s defense of Iraq conflict wrong

STEPHEN KALIN
Guest Columnist

The current situation in Iraq is a complicated one, and reasonable people can disagree about the merits of prolonging the U.S. mission there or withdrawing troops in the near future. In last week’s Davidsonian, Matt Petit warned that withdrawal would threaten U.S. ability to intervene in other international crises. His principal contention is that the United States should remain in Iraq (indefinitely, it seems), because military retreat from that country’s civil war would cause the United States to adopt isolationist policies. In making this claim, Petit seems to confuse cause with effect. Military withdrawal from Iraq is not the cause but merely a symptom of our nation’s cynicism about invading, occupying, and otherwise intervening in other countries’ politics. The root cause of this new isolationist sentiment is not talk about troop withdrawal or even the news of continued violence in Iraq; it is President Bush’s unjustified war of choice and his administration’s miserable handling of the postwar reconstruction.

Petit likens the current situation in Iraq to previous military interventions in Vietnam and Somalia. His claim, however, that the outcry against these operations created an aversion to intervention is another false conclusion. American foreign policy—not the public protest and demand for withdrawal—must claim responsibility for the subsequent aversion to military missions. It is clear that the decision to use force to solve a political problem has consequences beyond the immediate situation. The U.S. government’s trigger-happy attitude over the past 40 years is one reason for the tragic failure of the United States and other countries to intervene in international crises, including the genocidal campaigns in Rwanda and Guatemala. Like the little boy who cried wolf, the call to arms by a government’s leaders loses its sense of urgency when repeated without just cause. The current situation is no different from the former ones in Vietnam or Somalia: five years of bad planning and poor policy, not the recent push for withdrawal, have turned the American public off to the projection of U.S. military power. Even worse, by committing our troops to an unnecessary war in Iraq, President Bush has tied down men and money that could be employed more effectively and righteously in places like Afghanistan and the Sudan. The only way the United States could even threaten to intervene in an international emergency at this time is by freeing up resources from Iraq.

Furthermore, Petit’s charge that U.S. withdrawal from Iraq will discourage our allies from intervening in other crises around the world is out of touch with reality. Most of the members of the original “coalition of the willing” have already left Iraq. At the end of last year, the United Kingdom halved its troop levels to 2,500 at the same time that the United States completed the scaling up of its troops under the “surge” strategy. Every U.S. casualty between now and then constitutes a moral transgression and weakens our ability to pursue our obligations as a world leader. Meanwhile, France and other members of the European Union have pledged several thousand peacekeeping troops to a mission in Chad and the Central African Republic. Able nations are not avoiding crises around the world because of the imminent U.S. withdrawal from Iraq. They are attempting to intervene despite the failure of President Bush’s poorly planned, preemptive, and immoral war of choice.

Petit’s implication that the United States must continue fighting wars in order to make and enforce peace is illogical. It is unlikely that fighting will stop when U.S. troops leave Iraq. However, it is clear that our current policy is unsustainable. With soldiers on their fourth and fifth rounds of duty, it is only a matter of time before our military loses its ability to conduct this or any other operation. I’m not a pacifist or a libertarian. I don’t oppose all wars or all interventions in other countries’ politics. To do so would be to turn a blind eye to Hitler’s concentration camps and to ignore Milosevic’s mass graves. But if we cannot reasonably expect to leave Iraq a stable, peaceful country at the time when we can no longer sustain our military commitment, then we ought to leave as soon as possible. Every U.S. casualty between now and then constitutes a moral transgression and weakens our ability to pursue our obligations as a world leader.

Stephen Kalin ’09 is a Political Science major from Tappan, N.Y. Contact him at stkalin@davidson.edu.