DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Sig Ep pleads not guilty to hazing

KATHERINE JOHNSON
Staff Writer

Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity was tried before the Patterson Court Judiciary Board for hazing new members over three months after the incident occurred on Self Selection night. The trial began with opening statements from Sig Ep President Chris Vincoli ’09 and Student Solicitor Neely Meeks ’09 before a room packed with students present to support the fraternity.

Meeks shared that the fraternity had been accused of hazing by Patterson Court Advisor Cheyenne Schultz, Director of Housing Dean Perillo, and Area Coordinator Sabrina Brown. Davidson College defines hazing as compromising the dignity of the individual, and Schultz found that the atmosphere that the Sig Ep brothers had created for their pledges on Self Selection night was intimidating and demeaning. Additionally, Schultz found that Sig Ep had violated Article 18 of the Patterson Court New Member Bill of Rights, which states that fraternities and eating houses may not prohibit its members from speaking.

Schultz, Perillo, and Brown were all absent from the trial, but Meeks read a statement from Schultz about the incident, in which Schultz described when she, Brown, and Perillo passed by the Sig Ep house at roughly 7 p.m. that night and witnessed the pledges lined up in a row outside of the house in complete silence. She continued that the lights were turned off inside of the house and that the brothers were yelling at the pledges from inside, including some obscenities. Schultz was greatly disturbed by the fact that, according to her, a brother had yelled at the pledges that “there are 25 of you and only 24 getting in,” which would imply that one pledge would not be initiated into the fraternity. Also, according to Schultz, a shirtless pledge was yelled at to put his shirt back on.

Schultz also asserted that brothers were throwing objects at the pledges from inside the house. Brown stated that she saw a brother throwing an apple at the pledges and that it nearly hit them. Schultz added that she was greatly disappointed in the fraternity because she is “one of Sig Ep’s greatest fans,” but that it “broke her heart” when she witnessed “what had taken place during pledging.” Schultz, a strong opponent of hazing, saw Sig Ep’s actions during...

see Sig Ep, page 3

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Remembering ‘Memento’
Quidditch comes to college
see A&L, PAGE 14

Lacrosse completes record season
see SPORTS, PAGE 20

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 2008
VOLUME 99, NUMBER 24

Students frolic before final exams

KATE KELLY
News Editor

For Davidson students and alumni, this past weekend was full of high-spirited fun and of course plenty of frolicking. The carefully chosen words of last Wednesday’s social calendar, “remember this weekend is a marathon, not a sprint,” offered sage advice regarding the festivities. By Friday night, it wasn’t hard to tell that frolics were in full swing as the all-too-familiar eau de Patterson Court, a mixture of beer, sweat, and poor life decisions, was detectable from as far away as Belk Dormitory.

As a freshman experiencing Spring Frolics for the first time, I was excited to see Davidson students taking a break from work for once. Andrew Wilkins ’11 elaborated on the bizarre effect that...Spring Frolics happened on campus, stating, “I heard an alumni say ‘this is the one time a year that Davidson looks like a normal college campus’... minus the bouncy things.” Right before crunch-time, Davidson students took time out to kick back, relax, and realize that college is worth enjoying. The weekend was enjoyed by both students and alumni as Spring Frolics coincided with Alumni Weekend. The alumni events allowed former students to reunite and reminisce while frolicking with current students. The alumni’s presence added excitement to campus as Court bonding transcended generations, proving that a Davidson Court party will always be a Davidson Court party. For some students, however, the alumni’s presence on the court (and specifically that of their children) was a little disconcerting. “I understand they want to be a part of their school, but I feel like it’s a little strange and borderline irresponsible to have their young children around fraternities where almost everyone has been drinking excessively,” Wilkins said. Despite the focus on partying this past weekend, there was only one fire call to the Pi Kappa Alpha house in response to an alarm. There were no medical calls received in spite of the slip-and-slides and bouncing fun times. Students did, however, experience some unique events due to excessive partying. Katie Miller ’10 narrates her favorite Spring Frolics moment: “Best Commons meal I have ever experienced. It seemed...

see Frolics, page 2

Presidential stamp of approval

KATHERINE MILLER
Managing Editor

During freshman orientation this year, Davidson employees resorted to setting up traps in front of the President’s house—not to keep out too-eager freshmen and their parents, but the skunks that sprayed his dog, Chelsea, twice. Although the traps only succeeded in catching a solitary raccoon, President Ross assured us he has since developed a successful strategy for keeping his dog out of stink’s way. The impending graduation of the Class of 2008 marks another conclusion, Tom Ross’s first year as president of Davidson College. We thought this an appropriate time to recognize what has been a tumultuous and ambitious first year. The Davidsonian spoke to President Ross on Monday regarding his personal thoughts on this year. First, he was asked of what he was proud from the year. His impressive initial response followed: “The sense of community is at as high of a level as Davidson has ever seen.” He cited such factors as, of course, the exhilarating basketball season, open and frank student discussion of issues on campus, and what he considers the community’s growth and maturation over the course of the year. He also witnessed an evolution of initiatives like Rally for Change, which impact the campus positively. The Class of 2008 will be the first to graduate with Tom Ross’s signature on their diplomas, a fact of which Ross is proud. At the Senior Banquet held in Vail Commons last week, Ross felt emotional looking at the crowd of Seniors, with whom he has built numerous relationships. He also feels that this year has allowed him to begin building relationships with the faculty, whom he hopes have learned to trust him to do what’s right while still encouraging communication. Ross hopes to continue developing these relationships, as well as work even harder to maintain his focus on attending campus events and forums. Davidson as a college...

see Ross, page 2