2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Election, from page 1

was composed of two parts: a biography of the candidate and an explanation of how that candidate is going to
win the election. Each group created basic information for their candidate regarding their background and their issue positions.

In addition, each campaign had to outline strategies for message, budget, targeting, media, and organization.

Each candidate’s plan has remained confidential throughout the process. The two campaigns were allowed to see each other’s final candidate
descriptions, but all final plans have been kept confidential.

Initially, the class was to be broken up into two, 15-person groups, one Democrat and one Republican. However, four students
(Patty Herold ’10, Mike Jucewicz ’10, Dave Lebhar ’08, and Chris Marsicano ’10) branched off and formed an Independent campaign
with theater candidate Ripley.

“Students know him, love him, he is a gifted speaker and is a fantastic friend,” Marsicano said.

Jucewicz added, “We chose Scott because he’s a great theatre teacher and because of the fact that his real story
is so good. We really didn’t need to make up a lot of things, unlike the other campaigns.”

Running as the Republican candidate is Dumbledore from the “Harry Potter” series.

According to Liam Bracken ’10, the Republicans chose Dumbledore as their candidate because of name recognition.

“In this campaign, you can go one of two ways: You can choose a personal candidate, like Fountain or Ripley,
that the campus can relate to on a real level, or you can choose a more pop-culture candidate and try
to utilize their already established popularity.”

Michele Torsiglieri ’10, another Republican team member, supports Bracken.

“Due to [Dumbledore’s] reputation in the ‘Harry Potter’ series and his willingness to fight for justice in the face of
adversity, we believe that Dumbledore would be an inspiring candidate for the members of the Davidson community,” she said.

Rounding out this year’s group of candidates is Davidson College’s Chief of Police, Fountain Walker.

“In choosing Fountain Walker, the Democratic campaign was looking for a candidate that would appeal to a broad range of
Davidson students,” Walker representative Stephen Kalin ’09 said. “Because everyone knows and likes Fountain, he seemed like a good choice.”

Throughout the project, every group has faced difficulties, the most important of which is mobilizing voters.

“We are hoping to make sure that the faculty show up to the polls. We think that faculty will be
about 10 percent of the vote. That is a key base for Scott. We also hope to visit every dorm
room up the hill and try to talk people into coming out to the polls,” Marsicano said.

Bracken identifies the challenge differently.

“We have to make the campus aware of the election and make them care about the issues, while simultaneously reminding
them that it is a fictional election,” he said. “It is a difficult balancing act to manage.”

With less than a week left in the campaign, students fondly reflect back on the course. The long hours and
hard work they have given to their respective campaigns have repaid them with a much greater appreciation for the political
process.

“It’s one thing to read that a campaign is an involved process, but when you’re trying to make time to
do it yourself, you understand on a new level,” Torsiglieri said.

Marsicano noted, however, that the campaigns are slightly restricted in this process, more so than in real life. This is
because candidates cannot make public appearances.

Jucewicz emphasized that the class is, in fact, vital for understanding politics.

“Some people say that getting elected is the most important part of a young congressman’s job since he can only
start getting things done once he achieves seniority, and the only way to do that is to get reelected,” he
said.

In addition to voting in your state primary or caucus, consider taking five minutes on this Monday between 8:00 a.m.
and 8:00 p.m. to vote in the Union and participate in this unique process.

ABERNETHY AWARDS: ROUND 2

APPLICATIONS DUE 3/28/08

Funds from the George L. Abernethy Endowment will be available to support worthy initiatives by current first-year, sophomore, or junior
students. [It is also possible to fund a senior who expects to complete all research work prior to graduation.] Individual
awards fall into one of the following categories:

1. Independent student research, either in the US or abroad.
2. Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year or the summer.
3. Collaborative research by students and faculty. The student must have a clearly defined independent role in the research.

At the request of the donor, applications are limited to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences.

For your information, last year the Abernethy Endowment supported projects with grants up to $3,300; the average award was about
$1,700. This is the second round of Abernethy funding for 2007-08, during which a limited number of additional awards may
be made.

Application forms are available in the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283). Completed application forms are
due back in this office before 5:00 p.m. on Friday, March 28, 2008. The announcement of awards will occur on
or before April 21, 2008.
