ELECTION COVERAGE
AND ANALYSIS

Breakdown of how
Davidson students voted
see ELECTION, pages 9-10

“CHANGELING’
STANDOUT
Angelina Jolie soars in

Eastwood’s new drama
see ARTS, page 10

FIRST TOUCHES

Swimming and diving
women dominate against
NC A&T and College of
Charleston

see SPORTS, page 15

Political pumpkins crafted by Jackie Javerbaum ’09, Ellie Marranzini ’09, Erin Jaeger ’09, Courtney Siegel ’09, and Gaby Marranzini ’12.

* Outpost Trivia Night, today 11 p.m.
* Dance Ensemble, Fri. & Sat. 8 p.m.
* Liederabend, Sun. 7:30 p.m., Tyler-Tallman

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2008

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 9

HISTORIC FIRSTS

ANDREW EVANS
Staff Writer

Seeing is believing.

At 10:57 p.m., CNN declared Barack Obama the winner of the state of Virginia. People cheered, jumped up and down,
hugged each other, danced around and gave each other high fives.

But the cheer increased to a roar just three minutes later. People knew what was coming, but “seeing it on
the screen—that’s what did it,” said Pat Sellers, a professor of political science who helped organize the election night party.

At 11 p.m. CNN declared Barack Obama the winner of the Presidential election. What followed was an incredible outpouring of
emotion from countless students in the 900 Room. Suddenly, just as the polls in California, Oregon and Washington closed and
those words declaring Obama President flashed on the screen, the cheers became deafening. The room suddenly transformed into standing-room-only status
as people stood on chairs and tables, danced, cried and called and texted their friends and family.

See Election, page 7

ITS to reduce paper waste from printing

ALEX KOWALESKI
Staff Writer

In the next few weeks, Information Technology Services will be unveiling two new projects. PawPrint, a new printing system, will
reduce printer-paper waste in public computing areas, contributing to Davidson’s ecological commitment. The second project, the creation of two new
group study rooms in the Belk computer lab, plans to give students a comfortable and technologically advanced workplace.

The issue of massive printer paper waste has become prominent recently, due to the exhibit in the entrance of Little
Library of several

See ITS, page 3

their 44th President with 338 electoral votes; Davidson students voted in heavy numbers.

Students vote Obama by 7-3 margin

Seniors face shortage in lab requirement slots

KATIE LOVETT
Staff Writer

Registrar Hansford Epes confirmed that there are always a number of seniors who enter their final semester with the fulfillment
of some core requirements still remaining. 140 students from the class of 2009 have not completed and are not registered
for 1 or more of their requirements and 35 seniors out of this group will be vying for 48 spots
in the two most popular non-science major lab courses, Human Biology and Chemistry of Art and Artifacts.

“I take it for granted that seniors know how to use WebTree,” Epes said. “I was alarmed by how foolishly
some trees were filled out for the fall semester.” Sixteen of the 35 students who have not completed their lab
requirement did not have a lab course listed anywhere on their trees for first semester.

It is possible that a handful of these seniors could utilize Advanced Placement credits to compensate for their lack of
completion of core requirements. “There is no doubt that there are some AP credits out there that students never had
sent to Davidson,” Epes said. However, AP scores must be officially reported to the college in order to receive credit
for these exams. Some students seem to adopt the attitude, “even though it doesn’t show up on Shirley, I still
have the AP credit,” Epes said.

A maximum of four course credits may be achieved through AP, IB or joint enrollment courses and if a student
qualifies for more than four, they will have the opportunity to select which credits to apply towards graduation.

Academic advisers emphasize a timeline for completion of core requirements in initial meetings with their first year students. Each Davidson
student must complete a composition (W-Course), foreign

See Seniors, page 2
