THE DAVIDSONIAN

By KELLY BEGGS
Staff Writer

Most Davidson students do not expect their collegiate academic careers to be at all connected to their gardening skills.

Academic pursuits related to agriculture are usually assigned to large state universities with names followed by the letters A and
M, not small liberal arts colleges.

NEWS
Students’ garden project to unite community

However, for some students in Professor Fuji Lozada’s Anthropology 267 class, Food and Culture, studies of agriculture and management are
now a significant part of their academic studies—65 percent of one class’s final grade, in fact.

This semester Aaron West ’08, Martelle Esposito ’08, Ciara Meeks ’08, Laura Johnson ’08, Kelly Finnigan ’08, and Moriah Wood
’08 will take their studies outside of the library to build a community garden at the Solomon House.

The Solomon House is a non-profit, faith-based organization in Huntersville, which provides health education and free health services to the
community.

The organization seeks to integrate faith and health by promoting holistic healing and offers services such as personal health education
classes and support groups, assistance in monitoring ongoing health issues, health screenings, exercise programs, Bible studies, prayer walking, and patient
information.

The Solomon House will provide some monetary support for the garden, and the students have been granted $1,200 from the
Robert T. Stone Fund for their project.

The group of Davidson seniors will plan and orchestrate the garden-building process in consultation with a master gardener, but they
are also reaching out to involve the community in the execution of their project.

To build the garden, the group of students will join forces with The Golden Peacemakers, a local senior organization, as
well as an after-school program in Huntersville, so the ages of the gardeners will span from elementary-school children to senior
citizens.

West explains that the purpose of including such diverse ages of participants is to foster a sense of community, bridging
the generation gap by uniting community members to achieve a common goal.

The Food and Culture class examines how food practices shape societies and cultures throughout the world, a topic that certainly
has an established niche in the Davidson Course Catalog.

However, none of the students of Anthropology 267 are planning projects that come close to the usual, class-culminating test or
research paper.

Some students from the class are working with Vail Commons to create a composting system on campus while others are
bringing a farmer’s market to Davidson. Another group of students are working with children through Freedom Schools and Davidson-Cornelius Daycare.

The class’s syllabus explains these projects as part of community-based learning.

Elizabeth Henry ’08 designed the service-learning component of the class’s curriculum as her senior capstone project. This method of learning
calls for the students to apply what they learn inside the classroom outside of the classroom. By this application, the
hope is for the students to learn experientially.

Learning benefits both students and the community with this system.

Since knowledge cannot be confined to a college campus, it will expand and grow (quite literally in the gardening project)
into the surrounding area.

This system of mutual benefit is exemplified by the Solomon House project.

When asked about the future of the garden, West said, “Because all but one of us are seniors this year,
we will not be around to see any fruit from the garden.”

To ensure the project’s longevity, the group will create a manual so that the project can be re-created in the
future.

Even though the seniors of the Food and Culture class will graduate in May, their projects will remain, benefiting the
community that fostered their academic development.
