-« AZ &£, a ne @ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST & e ~* a ~~ - WEDNESDAY, APRIL 23, 2008 by
Phil Giduz Jason Mraz performs live in the Belk Arena in Baker Sports Complex last Thursday, April 17 Haass addresses
global questions By KELLY BEGGS Staff Writer Last Wednesday, Richard Haass, President of the Council on Foreign Relations, gave the
final lecture of the 2007-2008 Bank of America Lecture Series. The presentation, entitled “Do We Want to be the New
Rome?” explained Haass’ answer to the question, and discussed the future of American foreign policy. Richard Haass is a renowned
expert on American foreign policy. He has served as Director of Policy Planning for the US Department of State and
as Special Assistant to President George W. Bush. Though Haass began his speech by complimenting Davidson’s international studies program, he
followed that statement with a bleak prognosis for the future of foreign policy, saying that his field “has replaced economics
as the dismal science.” Haass then shifted to a more positive tone, choosing to review the see Haass, page 4
Austin By CLINT SMITH Staff Writer Since its inception, The Davidson Show has proven to be a major hit amongst
students on campus, humorously highlighting many of the subtleties of Davidson life that often go unnoticed. Every couple of weeks
a new episode premieres in the 900 Room and a small television in the Union runs the show continuously. I
recently sat down with Austin Bell ’10, the producer of The Davidson Show to ask him about the influence the
show has on the school. Clint Smith: So, where did the idea for The Davidson Show come from? Austin Bell:
To be entirely honest, it came to me in a dream; I woke up shouting about The Davidson Show at
the top of my lungs. It scared the [Hades] out of the rest of the Economics 101 class. After that,
I went out and bought PVC pipe and green fabric from Lowe’s and Wal-Mart, and the next day, I had
constructed the coolest green PVC sailboat you had ever seen. Two weeks after of COLLEGE WEEKLY” @ - —— ?
|} VOLUME 99, NUMBER 23 Survey exposes varying opinions on library By ALISSA CURRAN Staff Writer Davidson College’s notorious workload
drives students to work arduously during all hours of the day. This trend has transformed traditionally academic sanctuaries on campus
into places where social and scholarly ambitions converge. For this reason, the Library Space Planning Committee faces a new struggle
in deciding whether potential renovations in the library should preserve its conventional role or cater to those who see it
as a social hotspot. The Library Space Planning Committee is researching future renovation options for the library. They conducted a
survey of students, staff and faculty for one week during March to understand better the different roles of the library
for participants. Twenty-four percent of students and 40 percent of staff participated in the survey, which pleased Dr. Pat Sellers,
Professor of Political Science and creator of the survey. “I think it provides a good cross-section of opinions,” Sellers said.
The survey covered a wide range of questions, which aimed at quantifying trends across “high-use” and “low-use” students, faculty andStaff.
The survey classified “low-use” persons as those who use the library less than eight hours per week, while “high-use” students
exceed that length of time. The study found that amongst students, the average number of hours per week spent in
the library was 11.97 hours, roughly a third of the total average time students spend studying. The survey revealed a
wide range in the role of the library for different people at Davidson, which will make reaching a consensus challenging.

In a question that asked why students do not use the library, 36 percent of participants cited the reason as
“too many people,” while 34 percent attributed it to being “too quiet.” “This really just shows that people use the
library in very different ways,” Sellers said. “The question is: how can we address these different needs?”

Though other areas of the survey expose stark differences in the function of the library for students and faculty, the
two groups agreed on what constitutes the “ideal work space:” Both listed computers, space to spread out, quiet, comfortable furniture,
lighting, and an informal and cozy environment as the most important characteristics of the optimal workspace. High- and low-use members
of both groups also agreed on the importance of these working conditions. Students and faculty also shared...

See Library, page 2

Bell reveals all that, I had shot and edited a pilot for the show.

CS: I can only imagine the class’s reaction. Is this how you usually come up with your ideas for the
show?

AB: My ideas for the show now usually come from situations I observe around campus as a Davidson student. For
example, when I went to “Waiting For Lefty” and got panhandled as I entered, I imagined what it would be
like if students did that in normal Davidson situations that required change, such as paying library fees. When all else
fails, I'll just lock myself in a room and read Voltaire until I'm pretty sure I've gone crazy, and I
write down the first thing that pops into my head and call it a script.

CS: Well, I’m sure that you’re not the first person to do that...actually you might be. Do you receive funding
from school or does this come out of your own pocket?

AB: The Union Board, specifically William Brown, pays for our Chick-Fil-A at premieres, and due to a fairly minor contract
stipulation, I am required to say that he is the handsomest man I have ever had the pleasure to meet
at least once per interview. Otherwise, everything up to this point has been done entirely without school support. Other than
occasionally using editing computers in the media lab, we've been using personal equipment and tapes.

CS: I’m sure that William will be flattered to know that you think he’s so handsome. So, who helps you
write the show?

AB: We have a very dedicated and entertaining team of writers that come together and toss around ideas and their
execution before each show. Ultimately, we do as many of the more popular ideas as we can. When that doesn’t
work, I try bribing them with candy, and if they get too rowdy, I spike their Kool-Aid.

CS: Sounds like a pretty unique group of individuals. Are they volunteers or did you pick them yourself?

AB: All are volunteers, but some...

See Show, page 3
