THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES

Pearl Jam: rockers with a conscience

ANJAN MUKHERJEE
Perspectives Editor

What happened to music that spoke to and for a generation? The likes of Bob Dylan and The Doors waxed poetic about the liberating and often turbulent sixties. They spoke about issues such as civil rights, hypocrisy in government, and the ever-growing drug culture that went mainstream during that decade. Skip to 2008, and one of the most popular songs among people of all ages (performed by a 17-year-old, no less) describes a sexual act degrading women — involving bedsheets.

The grunge movement, based in Seattle, was home for many jaded and disgruntled young people — those to whom Reaganomics had seemingly failed to “trickle down.” These teenagers and twenty-somethings identified with music that communicated with them. Since 1990, one band has consistently spoken of important issues while making quality music. Pearl Jam started with their debut album Ten, in which they tackle broken homes, school shootings, abortion, and homelessness, just to name a few. This album, by the way, has sold over 12 million copies worldwide and continues to sell regularly.

Their next two albums also feature songs to which many listeners can relate. “Daughter” speaks about a child with a learning disability and her abusive parents who think she is being obstinate. “Glorified G,” a song about gun control, mocks those who brazenly purchase firearms. “Betterman,” loosely based on lead singer Eddie Vedder’s mother, speaks about a relationship in which a woman just can’t seem to break away from the abusive man.

In 1998, Yield was released containing one of the most socially charged songs this group has written — “Do The Evolution.” As Vedder puts it, the song describes someone who has gotten “drunk with power and technology” and justifies the havoc that he has created. It was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Hard Rock Performance.

Pearl Jam, released in 2006, doesn’t back down, either. It offers 13 tracks, each filled with social messages such as the war in Iraq, suddenly becoming unemployed, the state of the economy, and dealing with alcoholism.

Pearl Jam is also socially conscious. In 1994, they tackled Ticketmaster, the behemoth that had all but monopolized the concert ticket industry. They demanded that Ticketmaster reduce their ticket prices for their fans — a battle that ended up in court, and one that Pearl Jam eventually lost. Since then, they have continued to give back to the community. For each concert venue, they donate a portion of every ticket price to a local charity.

Eddie Vedder is an unsung hero for many who feel misunderstood, either by society or their peers. It is no surprise that Sean Penn tapped Vedder to record original music for Into The Wild, his film about a young man who escapes into nature to flee the ever-corrupt society in which his parents live. Vedder also wrote an original song titled “No More” for the recent film Body of War, a film that describes the life of soldiers currently serving overseas.

Although they faded from mainstream music in the mid-90s, Pearl Jam has quietly but surely produced important songs. I use that word because no other musician or group in the position where they have the opportunity to reach a broad range of people uses it to talk about the reality of the world in which we live. I, for one, am glad that someone is reminding us of the critical issues that are shaping our generation, instead of pampering a spoiled, egotistical 17-year-old with, it seems, a split-personality disorder.

Anjan Mukherjee ’09 is a music major from Chevy Chase, MD. Contact him at anmukherjee@davidson.edu.

Davidson, why waste getting wasted?

Sunny LEE
Guest Writer

Last weekend I had the opportunity to be written up for the first time, which was fun in its own special way. Maybe it says a lot about me that all I could think about as the officers set about collecting names and packing case after case into trash bags was, “Wow, I bet they could buy an X-box with all this beer.” Unfortunately, I found out from an officer that there’s no cool Davidson Police BoozeBox. Serious questions of ethics aside, Davidson campus policy dictates that all confiscated alcohol must be destroyed immediately. That is just wrong on so many levels.

The destruction of confiscated alcohol is a policy that makes sense on the surface, but leaves so much to be desired. Make no mistake, underage drinking is clearly against the law and dealing with contraband confiscation is a messy affair. I am in no way trying to justify it, and I commend the officers there that night for doing such a tedious, taxing job with so much courtesy and good humor. But still, I can’t help but think about what a waste it all was and what could have been done with it.

True, it’s contraband. But couldn’t we as a community get something out of this unfortunate situation other than awkward phone calls home? Here we have the opportunity to essentially convert currently unused alcohol into pure charity through a simple process of bureaucracy. There was at least $200 worth of untouched alcohol taken from that two-room party, and I’m probably sorely underestimating the price of the secret specialty whiskey stash found in one of the rooms. Instead, if Davidson had sold that confiscated alcohol to a local liquor store, that would be $200 that could be used as donations to a local charity. Think about it. It’s actually not that far-fetched. It couldbe a new campus thing—“Booze for Books,” or “Kegs for Kids (Not to Drink).” Riding on this booze charity train, I’d bet that Davidson could probably raise a solid thousand dollars per month—a thousand dollars that could be funding local soup kitchens and other charities. If we establish a program with a legitimate and reputable local liquor store willing to accept alcohol at a discounted price, why should we as a college feel any shame about making the best of a situation? I understand that it may seem distasteful to some to associate alcohol sales with charity, but let’s be pragmatic. If we established a program with a legitimate and reputable local liquor store willing to accept alcohol at a discounted price, why should we as a college feel any shame about making the best of a situation? There is nothing inherently illegal about the alcohol itself, merely its location in the digestive systems of minors. Besides, I find it difficult to believe that questions of ethics are what dictate current policy. However we choose to sugar-coat it, all colleges are in some respect operating businesses that should consistently keep finances in mind. Realistically speaking, the current policy is just a shameful waste of potential resources. Students aren’t going to stop drinking anytime soon, and if we have the potential to salvage something good out of regrettable circumstances, why shouldn’t we make every effort to make it so? However we choose to sugar-coat it, all colleges are in some respect operating businesses that should consistently keep finances in mind. It may seem like a laughable idea, but think about it. We are urged on a daily basis to donate used clothing, canned food, hand-me-down books—anything that has the potential to be useful. Here we have the opportunity to essentially convert currently unused alcohol into pure charity through a simple process of bureaucracy. So why ignore this ethanol-soaked amber opportunity?

Sunny Lee ’11 is undeclared. He is from New York. Contact him at sulee@davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2008

Big donors tend to favor Democrats, not Republicans

In the midst of a multi-million dollar election cycle and a multi-billion dollar government bailout, it pays to know how political donations impact Congressional voting habits. Perhaps understanding the money politicians receive helps to understand the money they dole out. For example, is it a coincidence that AIG received an $85 billion bailout at the same time Nancy Pelosi and John Kerry owned AIG stock? Does it matter that AIG has donated upwards of $100,000 to the Senate banking chair Chris Dodd or his colleague Chuck Schumer? Looking at data compiled by OpenSecrets.org and The Center for Responsive Politics, certain trends are evident. Some of these trends fly in the face of popular talking points. A mantra of Democrats and their comrades in the media claims that Republicans are the party of Wall Street and big business. The facts speak otherwise. During this election, only three of the top 20 corporate donors give more to Republicans than Democrats. Out of the top 100, only 28 donate more to Republicans. Big donors are big business and they donate to Democrats. Goldman Sachs contributed $4,817,451, of which 73 percent went to Democrats. Citigroup, which had total contributions of $3,791,421, donated 63 percent to Democrats. JPMorgan Chase contributed 51 percent of its $3,699,585 to Democrats. Note that these are the same firms that have been in the news recently in connection with the massive bailout proposal. Perhaps the pockets of big business are not aligned with Republicans as Democrats would like the public to think. Even more telling is that when donations are analyzed by sector, the number one donor is “finance/insurance/real estate.” That sector has given over $300 million this election cycle to politicians from both sides of the aisle. Should taxpayers be nervous that the group with the most to gain from recent Congressional dealings has been Congress’ biggest money supply? How sure can taxpayers be that a bailout does not hold the interests of that sector above the interests of taxpayers? Looking at donations grouped by industry reveals more lies. Of the top 20 industries only three lean Republican. At number 16, the oil and gas industry donated 75 percent of $22,543,340 to Republicans. At number 17, general contractors donated 66 percent of $20,899,984 to Republicans. Finally, at number 19, “miscellaneous manufacturing and distributing” donated 58 percent of $19,045,767 to Republicans. Democrats, on the other hand, receive 75 percent of the $168,319,730 lawyers and law firms donate, 55 percent of the $110,808,961 securities/investment firms donate, and 79 percent of the $33,572,334 the education industry donates. Now, what does this mean? Apparently “big oil” is not so big. Education donations are almost one and a half times that of oil and gas and the legal industry donates over seven times as much. Instead of “big oil” it should be “big education” and “big law.” Those donations also highlight why among failing schools, oppressive courts and high gas prices, the country lacks education reform, tort reform, and Alaskan and coastal drilling. Now, do not get me wrong, I have no problems with individuals exercising their free speech rights by making political donations. The point of having this information is simply to shed some light on the dealings that Congress undertakes. Representatives and senators are not making decisions in a vacuum. Thus, it pays to know the forces acting upon them. I encourage everyone to visit OpenSecrets.org to find out more.

Bobby DesPain ’11 is undeclared. He is from St. Louis, Mo. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.