THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dream, from page 1

When the film resumed, the audience found King struggling to come to grips with the multifaceted world of the 21st
century. Cultural norms such as women gyrating in rap videos on BET, the complexity of McDonald’s boneless rib sandwich, and
the intricacies of selecting an appropriate iPod confounded King.

At the show’s finale, a rally that was meant to bring about social change becomes a booty-shaking, alcohol-drinking, fight-filled party.

“Is this it?” King asked. “I had a dream once. It was a dream that little black boys and little
black girls would drink from the river of prosperity, freed from the threat of oppression.”

King proceeded to use the n-word numerous times when referring to how the new generation of African-Americans seem to willingly
perpetuate the negative stereotypes that plague the black community today. After his speech, King leaves the stage, moves to Canada,
and is never heard from again.

“People need to hear the truth, not the pretty truth, but the ugly truth that makes people get up and
do something.”
-Huey Freeman

The room of students, faculty, and community members was silent for a few seconds as people tried to maintain composure
after witnessing King’s provocative diatribe. A powerful dialogue ensued regarding the state of the African-American community and whether or not
the episode was effective or simply offensive in the manner in which it was portrayed.

Many of the older African-American members of the Davidson community who were in attendance took particular offense to the language
that the fictional King used. They claimed that King would have never spoken in such a manner, and to portray
him doing so was, in essence, tarnishing his name.

Many of the students, however, were of the opinion that it was simply a satirical illustration of a fantastical situation
meant to stir the viewer. They claimed that hearing those words come from the mouth of a prominent historical figure
like King forced them to reexamine themselves to see if they were responsible for perpetuating this negative stereotype in any
way.

“At first people were shocked and uncomfortable, but as dialogue developed, people really put themselves out there and that was
encouraging.”
-Darrel Scott ’10

People of all races discussed the most effective manner to confront problems that plague both Black America and America as
a whole. Important points centered on the need to change the education system, the importance of parents, and the need
for all of us to move out of our comfort zones and get to know people who may be different
than us.

“At first people were shocked and uncomfortable, but as dialogue developed, people really put themselves out there and that was
encouraging,” said Scott. “Hopefully some people will take what they learned and put it into action.”

NEWS | WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2008

Write for News

You can put it on your resume!

...we did.

Contact Alissa Curran or Chris Moore at alcurran or cimoore.
