As the world, the student body exhaled a collective "Wow," because its trustees offered to subsidize all of the costs necessary to send students to Detroit. And like the rest of the While most, if not all, students were appreciative of the offer, some felt frustrated by the e-mail chain heard 'round the world. The initial e-mail eliciting student interest was sent during class time on Wednesday afternoon and only allowed a two-hour window to respond. Many students, especially those who were in labs or seminars, were unable to check their email in time to send a response. Clearly, the president’s office underestimated student interest, and while this misjudgment was unfortunate, the administration did the best it could given the time and options available. President Ross was not even on campus on Wednesday but communicated with the trustees and his staff members by phone from New York. The request email had a two-hour window because the buses needed to be booked by a certain time and arrangements had to be made. Wendy Roberts, Traci Russ-Wilson, and Linda Ra worked tirelessly to obtain as many buses as possible, though many were already booked for other engagements like Carolina Cup.

Unknown to many students, two of the six original buses actually canceled late on Thursday after all e-mails to students had been sent, but Roberts, Russ-Wilson, and Ra worked well into the night, calling different bus companies to ensure that all students receiving confirmation e-mails could still go. On top of this, Roberts was in the parking lot early Friday morning to ensure that all the students received their respective spots on the bus and wished them well on their trip to Detroit.

And it didn’t end there. Working over the weekend, the President’s Office secured five more buses Detroit-bound for the Regional Final against top-seeded Kansas. The community experience at Davidson is incredible. Yes, student frustration last week is certainly understandable, but anyone who complained should consider both how hard people worked to make this happen and the costs involved: 11 buses at $4500 each, over 100 hotel rooms, and 550 basketball tickets at $75 for a weekend ticket and $75 for a single game ticket. We their four years at Davidson. And if you get a chance, thank the President’s Office or the Trustees for their dedication and selflessness, please do so because it’s the least we can do.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX LIBERTAS
Editor-in-Chief: Suzie Eckl
Managing Editors: Michelle Jester & Katherine Miller
News Editors: Nina Mace & Chris Moore
Perspectives Editors: Laura Van Oudenaren & Matt Petit
Arts & Living Editors: Yow! Editors: James Boswell & Alex Hoyt
Sports Editors: Mike Frongello & Patrick McArdle
Photography Editor: Ben Ellinor
Copy Editor: Gretchen Hoffman
Business, Advertising, and Circulation Manager: Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Jamie Hofmeister

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182. Offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00 per year.

Fidel Castro resigned his post as president of Cuba last month after nearly 50 years of monolithic and repressive rule. “El Fidel” was a symbol both of political longevity and strident opposition to U.S. policies—a model to socialist revolutionaries in a post-Soviet world. But with the fervor of the 1959 revolution long past, the Cuban government has faded into a bland gerontocracy of hollow ideologies and inefficient social programs. Raul Castro, Fidel’s only slightly younger brother, will now don the presidential green fatigues and lead the Cuban nation into the future—or at least until his 77-year-old body fails. This changing of the vanguard has fired up a renewed game of “Kremlinology,” that is, trying to figure which Cuban officials will influence policy with scant and sometimes silly information. Some have suggested that Raul’s presidency will be nothing more than a continuation of his brother’s, but the most common opinion seems to be that Raul will introduce modest reforms to the highly centralized State. While far from the sea change many policymakers hoped for, Fidel’s resignation still represents a large shift in the personality and effect of Cuban politics. Now would be the best time for the United States to lift the 1962 embargo and repeal the Helms-Burton travel ban of 1996. The trade embargo has been in effect, if not exactly in law, for over 45 years and has done much to isolate the roguish and once dangerous Castro regime. But like Fidel, its time has come. The policy simply doesn’t make sense anymore. The Soviet Union has not existed for 16 years, let alone financed and armed the nearby nation. The Castro regime soldiered on in stubborn defiance of the hopelessness and uselessness of a command-socialist system. While the ruling (and aging) elites in Havana have enjoyed relative comfort and calm, Cuba’s people have struggled to make ends meet with failing welfare, worsening infrastructure, and an impoverished healthcare system. Lifting the embargo has the potential to create many positive outcomes.Following companies and individuals to do business with their Cuban counterparts, the United States could help liberalize Cuba. While there are certain benefits to a socialist society, a starved one can only lead to disaffection and intense human suffering: take North Korea for example. Introducing market forces into Cuba should create a revolution of rising expectations and make political liberalization appealing and perhaps even necessary. Providing Cubans with a ready alternative to failing state institutions might force the Cuban leadership to adapt policies of openness similar to Mikhail Gorbachev’s glasnost and perestroika. Taking steps to include Cuba in its economic and sociopolitical sphere would also undercut much of the anti-U.S. rhetoric coming from Havana and Caracas. Now would be the best time for the United States to lift the 1962 embargo and repeal the Helms-Burton travel ban of 1996. Much of Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez’s bluster and anger is precipitated on the perception that the United States is out to get Latin America, to imprison it in quasi-imperial rule. But the fact is, many Cubans would stand to benefit from more cooperation with the United States and, faced with the potential to rise above poverty, may see Chavez’s words as flat and self-important. The United States stands at a crossroads in Cuban-American relations. The Missile Crisis is over. The Soviet Union and its threat of worldwide communism is past. And now Fidel is gone. The only move that would make sense for both the Cuban people and American foreign policy would be to lift the trade embargo and allow free travel between the two countries. This would put substantial pressure on the Cuban leadership to adopt a Vietnam-like approach toward accommodating social and market reforms to a nominally socialist government.

Matt Petit ’08 is a Political Science and Music major from Seminole, Fla. Contact him at mapetit@davidson.edu.

---

McCain, not Obama, can unite nation

Barack Obama loves to extol his power to unite. He, and only he, can bring the country together and heal its wounds. He is the long-lost glue our fractured society needs. However, reality disproves his claims. Obama certainly unifies the left, but what has he done to reach out to the rest of the country? His policy positions and public actions alienate a good portion of the country. Does he feel that his lack of support for the War on Terror unifies the country? Does his abortion stance unify the country? Perhaps his inexplicable support of the Rev. Jeremiah Wright unifies the country. When has Obama tried to reach out to individuals who do not share his opinions? Has he ever tried to sponsor a bill with Jon Kyl or Jim DeMint? What can he offer to the pro-life, pro-military, small-government crowd? Unifying people who already share your ideas does not mean much. Obama has simply made a claim without substance.

The real unifying candidate in this election is John McCain. Unlike Barack Obama, who can only claim that he could or would unify the country, McCain has a proven track record of unification. He has continually shown his willingness to work with Democrats to the point of co-sponsoring bills with Ted Kennedy, Joe Lieberman, and Russ Feingold. While he supports the war in Iraq, he opposes holding detainees at Guantanamo Bay, waterboarding, and torture. He does not have the overzealous evangelicalism for which President Bush has been criticized. While pro-life, McCain remains relatively quiet about abortion. He has always fought to remove earmarks from legislation and lobbyists from Washington, D.C. He has a history of standing firm under pressure. John McCain did not desert his fellow soldiers and Americans while in a Hanoi prison and he can be counted on to do the same while in the Oval Office.

One can easily disagree with Barack Obama on each of his issues. John McCain, on the other hand, cannot be so easily dismissed. Obama cannot gain the widespread support McCain can. The National Journal has ranked Obama as the most liberal senator. The American Conservative Union gave Obama a lifetime score of eight. Ranging so far to the left does not look good for someone who wants to unite the country, as Obama claims. Compare his score to McCain’s lifetime score of 82.3 from the American Conservative Union. McCain is clearly more to the center. It is that more central position that allows McCain the ability to reach out to the whole country. McCain also does not have to worry about his party deserting him to vote for his opponent in the November election. According to Gallup, if Obama wins the Democratic nomination, 28 percent of Hillary Clinton’s supporters would vote for McCain. How can Obama possibly unite the country when he cannot unite his own party? He and Hillary Clinton have split the Democrats into a huge, squabbling mess. Where has all the unity gone? How can Obama possibly unite the country when he cannot unite his own party? He and Hillary Clinton have split the Democrats into a huge, squabbling mess.

If unity is what the country wants, John McCain can provide it. He can offer strong leadership, guidance, security, and an even keel to Americans whose alternative is half of a whining, bickering, empty twosome.

Bobby DesPain ’11 is undeclared. He is from St. Louis, Mo. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.