LIVING THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, March 19, 2008

Alternative trips break away from ordinary

By JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Staff Writer

By the time March rolls around, most students eagerly await perhaps the most infamous aspect of collegiate life: spring break.
Made ubiquitous through television programs on MTV, spring break conjures up images of over-worked students flocking to beaches in wild
throngs and embarrassing photos popping up on Facebook. While this cliché may have been the case for some Davidson students,
others had a more laid-back style, using the week as a time for some much-needed rejuvenation. From trips to the
mountains with friends to a stay at Grandma’s, everyone found something to do with their time. Many students went home
to spend time with family or friends from high school.

A large portion of the student body, however, took an entirely different approach. For this group, spring break was not
a time for getting a tan or hitting the ski slopes but a time to help others. Davidson’s Alternative Break
program led four trips this year, sending students to various locations to complete service projects. While many students serve the
community locally by tutoring at Ada Jenkins, BEST recreational programs, or helping out at local nursing homes, alternative breaks offer
the unique opportunity for students to devote a concentrated week to a single project.

A group of eight trekked to War, W. Va. to assist members of the small Appalachian community. Sarah Kay Knicely
’09 helped lead the trip and remarked that she enjoyed getting to know individuals in the town on a personal
level. “Many had amazing storytelling abilities, others demonstrated incredible hospitality and generosity, many were incredibly talented musicians and just overall
very inspiring people,” she said. When asked why she had decided to forgo the traditional spring break, Knicely noted: “I
do not do as much service during the school year as I would like, thus a full eight days devoted
entirely to serving provides a great opportunity to give back to the community.”

The Bonner Scholars traveled to New Orleans and saw the destruction caused by Katrina three years ago. Shocked by what
she saw, Brianna Butler ’11 gave her impressions of the city: “Probably the most eye-opening experience was when we went
to take a tour of the Lower Ninth Ward and see where the levees broke,” she said. That area “was
damaged most by the flood waters of Katrina. I saw steps leading up to a doorway, but no houses. I
saw foundations, but no houses.” The lack of progress in rebuilding the poorer areas of New Orleans surprised many on
the trip. “After three years you would think that more had been done to improve conditions: more rebuilding, more funding,
more something,” Butler said.

Davidson offers alternative breaks each year during both fall and spring vacations. Trips usually focus on issues such as housing
and homelessness, disaster relief, environment and energy conservation, and youth issues. Other organizations such as Habitat for Humanity and United
Way offer trips for college students. Alternative Break participants on all trips worked tirelessly and unselfishly for others, but they
did not walk away empty-handed. They learned about the social issues affecting different communities and “to take nothing for granted,”
Butler said. “Going home and relaxing is nice but knowing you’ve done your part in changing the world is a
greater feeling.”

Emmerich’s movie ‘10,000 B.C.’ better off extinct

By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

There has been much speculation on how the pyramids of Egypt were built, and I have always been under the
impression that the inhabitants of Egypt were, for the most part, responsible for their construction. Devoid of any historical or
common sense, director Roland Emmerich (“Independence Day”) presents a theory in which domesticated woolly mammoths, hitched up like pack mules,
are forced to lug stone blocks up teetering wooden scaffolding to construct one of the Seven Wonders. And that is
only the beginning.

The film “10,000 B.C.” is nothing less than a farrago of falsehoods with a carapace for a plot. The movie
opens with a mystical ceremony with his mentor Tic Tic (Cliff Curtis) and minion Baku (Nathaneal Baring) to reclaim his
lost love. Clothed solely in light fur skins, man-purses, and horrendous wigs,The three cross mountains through six feet of snow,
suddenly to traverse through dense, tropical jungles, where they are pursued by “terror birds,” which are nothing less than ravenous
dodo birds that look like turkeys with a taste for blood. My favorite moment came when D’Leh fell into a
large, spiked pit, only to join the company of a poorly CGI’d saber-tooth tiger with a grotesquely large head. D’Leh
frees the tiger from the pit to avoid being eaten. And as any feline with a heart and advanced communication
skills would do, the tiger keeps its promise and only sniffs D’Leh.

Steven Strait and Camilla Belle disappoint high hopes for quality prehistoric fun in which the audience meets the young protagonist
D’Leh (Steven Strait), a mammoth hunter who falls for the nubile, blue-eyed Evolet (Camilla Belle). In order to bring honor
to his name and win Evolet, he feigns single-handedly killing a mammoth, earning him the revered white staff and right
to claim his woman. But when a gang of leather-clad, sword-wielding foreigners arrives on horseback (complete with modern tack) and
abducts Evolet, D’Leh takes it personally, embarking on a circuitous journey before abandoning the pit. Reunited, the three companions continue
their journey, meeting various tribes from Africa and Asia (which is a complete speculation, based solely upon shameless stereotypes and
bamboo costumes), until they ultimately all reach “Egypt,” the location of the mammoth-pyramid phenomenon.

And here is where the plot really hits the fan. Once in Egypt, the tribes issue a coup against a
tyrannical, eight-foot, polyester-clad “god” who never speaks, but rather squeaks like a baby velociraptor. At this point in the film,
any lingering doubts about the plot or massive gaps in logic are justified by a nebulous “prophecy,” which seems more
like a side thought and ultimately pulls some shamelessly lame maneuvers. The moment the credits began to roll, I was
left speechless, hostile, and utterly distraught that a film so horrendously written could ever have been conceived, let alone funded.
How could one walk in the snow through mountains through the jungle and arrive in the desert, without food, water,
or adequate clothing, and still maintain perfectly coiffed dreadlocks and a goatee? And prehistorically speaking, dodo birds actually averaged only
three feet tall, were flightless, and ate seeds, not “Mesopotamian” (again, a gross speculation) mammoth-hunting warriors. And I hate to
dwell on the mammoths, who were merely the victims of failed CGI, but the film begs for it. How could
anyone domesticate prehistoric beasts, hitch them up with ropes, and make them construct a building? The pyramids had not even
been built in 10,000 B.C. And where did the mammoths come from? The way this film unravels, they probably were
local mammoths which adapted themselves to withstand fetters, oppressive heat, and malnutrition.

I want to give “10,000” one shred of dignity, but I cannot. Cinematically, the film is appalling. Night shots were
taken with filters during the day, so the sun’s shadows are obvious. At several points, the picture became purple and
grainy and for about three minutes, the sound completely gave out. I didn’t miss a thing. When I think back
to the trailer, I have to say that the production studio should be sued heavily for misrepresenting their film and
costing me $7, because the spoiler was halfway decent: a crime in and of itself. Shockingly, this film ranked No.
1 at the box office opening weekend and for several subsequent weeks. The only reason you should see “10,000 B.C.”
is to experience one of the greatest historical abominations in film history.

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. University of Richmond
Commissioner for the Town of Davidson '83—'85, '88—'97
Town of Davidson Commercial and North End Corridor Plan ‘05
Mecklenburg County Real Estate Executive Council ‘03 to present.
Concentrating in Personal Injury
Other Areas of Practice: Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning, Litigation, Real Estate, Social Security Disability, Wills & Trusts
Gicdnttos, Law Firm
In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)
