Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2008

SEE PAGE 8

uUBI is, like, SO gay

SEE PAGE 8

Desperate senior drunk texts high school girlfriend

SEE PAGE 8

Union Board promotes Saturday night Electric Kool-Aid Pop Rocks Test

SEE PAGE 2

Charleton Heston moderated the college’s first anti-gay panel.

Moderated by Chuck Norris and Charleton Heston, Tuesday's homophobic forum in the Union 900 Room proved to be one of the most pleasantly chauvinistic and single-minded experiences in recent memory. The homophobic panel, the first in Davidson's history, provided a unique opportunity for rabid bigots and fascist pigs alike to vent their loathing for those who, as Heston delicately phrased it, “putt from the rough.”

For the past four weeks, the residents of Base Rich have suffered a series of odious, distasteful pranks in the dorm’s two bathrooms. Junior Hall Counselor Timmy Chang detailed the nature of the foul practical jokes: “Basically, some douchebag's been laying his turds down on the seat rather than in the bowl.” Each of the dorm's 24 residents admitted to having witnessed at least one of the fecal gifts.

Moody mootly

SEE PAGE 2

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Honor Section Editors: Alex Hoyt, James Boswell

Once a safe place to relieve oneself, the Base Rich bathroom has fallen victim to unsightly dumps. “I mean you can tell it's just one guy,” Tyler Roberts explained. “All the dumps have a similar length, girth, consistency, texture and taste. At least the dude's got a regular cycle.” Today, that “douchebag” has been identified as freshman Parker McStone, who lives two floors above on 2nd Rich.

Base Rich resident Jack Pritchett

Staff Writer: Claire O’Shea

“You know what I want in a girl? Me.” -J.D.D.

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word. That is what I said. Fondue cheddar.

THE PREQUEL TO THE SEQUEL ISSUE

Homophobic Forum a Good Ole Time

Heston began the discussion by quoting Leviticus 20:13: “If a man lies with a man as one lies with a woman, both of them have done what is detestable. They must be put to death; their blood will be on their own heads.” Everyone on hand agreed on the aptness of the verse and its applicability to 21st century America. After a few minutes of earnest discussion about the detriment of gays to the military, the institution of marriage, the economy and the ozone layer, the discussion lapsed into recollections from panelists’ favorite episodes of “Straight Eye for the Gay Guy,” fishing stories, a crammed viewing of the bootlegged Paris Hilton sex tape on Norris's laptop and a heated argument about whether or not Refrigerator Perry could have eaten 50 hard-boiled eggs.

“I think today was an important step towards eliminating diversity,” said Mark Wampler ‘08. “Hopefully such discussions will foster a better campus understanding of the dangers of progressive thinking.”

Base Richardson Phantom Dumper Finally Caught

spotted the culprit leaving the basement's south bathroom at 2:42 yesterday afternoon. Pritchett claims McStone looked suspiciously up and down the hallway before scurrying out the door and up the stairs. Pritchett then entered the bath-Room and found the smoking gun, a steamy deuce plopped directly on the center stall's porcelain seat. “It stunk pretty bad, but what really struck me was its size,” the shocked Pritchett told us. “I'd say it wrapped three quarters of the way around the seat. Not bad aim, actually.” The Base Rich hall counselors have said they don't plan to pursue legal action against McStone; they're just happy the whole thing is over. “We gave him a pretty good talking-to,” Chang said. “Hopefully he'll be leaving his dumps where they belong, up there on 2nd Rich.” 

Asked why he chose Base Rich as the target of his rogue defecation operation, the mostly mum and mysterious McStone replied, “I take most of my dumps within minutes of eating at Commons. Why would I walk all the way up the stairs to 2nd when I could just as easily lay ‘em down here?”

February 13, 2008

Amy Winehouse Busted

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Trying to Cross Border in Trunk of Kanye’s Hummer

This jail-bound toothless wench had plenty to be wistful about. British singer Amy Winehouse was discovered last weekend while attempting to cross the United States border en route to the 2008 Grammy Awards. Denied a visa earlier this month, Ms. Winehouse was discovered in the trunk of fellow Grammy nominee Kanye West's yellow Hummer. Currently residing in England, Ms. Winehouse was unable to obtain a visa to attend the ceremony, which was held Friday in LA. Mr. West's yellow Hummer was first spotted at a popular vacation spot for the stars just south of the United States border patrol station in California. The Hummer, which was recognized because of the vanity plate “FIZIKS,” was confiscated by the local police and has yet to be returned, although the police did escort Mr. West to the ceremony, where he accepted four Grammys. Ms. Winehouse, however, was not as lucky and was detained. She received her five Grammys via satellite and was returned quickly to rehab, that toothless vixen.

Hammered Trebek Ditches Davidson Jeopardy

Alex Trebek chose the Korner Pub over Jeopardy: Davidson Style

Following an atrocious debut for Jeopardy: Davidson Style, matters did not improve much in the second installment. Minutes before the cameras rolled, scheduled celebrity host Alex Trebek was nowhere to be found. According to several eyewitnesses, Trebek stumbled through the Union’s first floor doors at 8:45 p.m. He was sweating profusely, he reeked of bourbon, and his tie was tied around his head. Trebek immediately spotted the Union Board’s ever-so-cute temporary ice-skating rink. With the refined grace of a veteran game-show host, he hurdled the wall and glided across the ice on his chest. Trebek, screaming obscenities, tackled several faculty children and freshmen couples holding hands. After several minutes of utter mayhem, which culminated in Trebek pissing himself as he was dragged off the ice by Police Chief Faucet Runner, the show upstairs finally started. Trebek could not be reached for comment, but his agent notified us that he had spent several hours at the Korner Pub, where he challenged several regulars to darts.