2 LIVING 0 EA THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2008

Fashion critiques incite accusations of sexism
By CAROLINE WOOD
Arts & Living Editor

It’s mid-February of an election year, candidates for the Democratic nomination are racing neck and neck and one of the most salient campaign issues is... fashion. Despite heated debates, urgent issues and a ticking campaign clock, Sen. Hillary Clinton cannot escape the pressing question of personal style.

This month, Vogue Editor-in-Chief Anna Wintour attacked Clinton’s austere wardrobe, not for its lack of fashionable flair, but for the social statement behind it. She framed her criticism as a defense of feminism, praising Clinton as “our only female presidential hopeful” but deploring the “notion that a contemporary woman must look mannish in order to be taken seriously as a seeker of power.”

Wintour received her own share of criticism for her comments, which directly oppose the common stance that the stylish trappings of a woman taken seriously should be ignored altogether. Attention to style is often construed as an objectifying force designed to detract from the accomplishments of a powerful woman such as Clinton, she said.

One Los Angeles Times contributor called Wintour’s editorial a “silly, snitty statement that plays right into the right wing’s criticism of our first female presidential candidate,” adding an even more partisan edge to the already nasty exchange.

A Vogue spokesperson claims the controversy began last November, when Clinton declined to appear for a scheduled photo shoot out of “concern that she would appear too feminine.” One commentator remarked, “Clearly the presidential candidate didn’t worry about that when she cried in New Hampshire.” That incident, which occurred just days before the New Hampshire primary, excited extensive debate over Clinton’s gendered public image. Some commentators portrayed it as a genuine, personable moment, while others attacked it as a shameless manipulation of sexuality and gender assumptions. Worries about how the “feminine” outburst would affect Clinton’s chances were quelled when the senator took the primary.

Many critics point to jabs that bridge the gap between catty criticism and serious discrimination, evidencing the way trivial inquiries about appearance feed traditional sexist approaches to politics. Columnists are not the only ones debating style. Participants in online forums frantically banter about the presidential fashion scene. Posts jump from impassioned blazer critiques to scathing philippics about the very existence of the message board. Men and women alike rave that such discussions are insulting and inappropriate, others indulge gleefully in the gossip and fun, while a wise few diplomatically state that they enjoy debating fashion icons but won’t base political decisions on their findings.

In any circumstance, Clinton has generated more fashion commentary than any other candidate, and the sexist implications of the attention are undeniable. While a few lonely fanatics squabble over the virtues of Obama’s and Romney’s neckties, dissections of Clinton’s wardrobe, hairstyles and body are the expected mainstream. A July 2007 Washington Post article traces the evolution of Clinton’s style from White House stateliness to a “desexualized” senatorial “uniform” to early campaign trail cleavage displays. Celebrity gossip magazines like Us Weekly pull the senator into the

Playwright to speak at Davidson
By CAROLINE WOOD
Arts & Living Editor

This Saturday, Feb. 16, celebrated dramatist Edward Albee will visit Davidson for a day of literary discussion. His morning lecture, an exploration of the state of theatre arts in America, will take place in the Duke Family Performance Hall at 10:30 a.m.

Albee will spend Saturday at Davidson. Afterward, Albee will share lunch with a select group of students, faculty and guests as well as present a special session afternoon class for interested Davidson students.

Albee is the author of over 30 plays and has been an influential figure in American and international drama for over five decades. His works include “The Zoo Story” (1959), “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf” (1962), “The Goat or Who is Sylvia?” (2002) and Pulitzer Prize winners “A Delicate Balance” (1966), “Seascape” (1975) and “Three Tall Women” (1994). Tickets for the lecture are free.fashion fray with articles like “Hillary Clinton: my worst outfits ever!” The excessive attention, shared by numerous media sources, may be a subtle sexist commentary or just another facet of the extensive personal scrutiny of the candidate.

The Devil and Daniel Plainview: By Alex Hoyt Yowl Editor

Daniel Plainview, played by a wizened Daniel Day-Lewis, begins “There Will Be Blood” in a California silver mine with a broken leg and ends the film facedown in the gutter of a bowling alley. What comes in between these two unfortunate states is a chronicle of the nascent oil industry’s explosive successes and pulley-snapping collapses. This is a tale peopled with bondsmen, evangelicals, and journeymen, spanning 30 years without allowing any female character the time of day.

Day-Lewis anchors the film by delivering one of the best performances in his career, one that makes his Hawkeye in “Last of the Mohicans” (a great performance) look like Hugh Grant with a shotgun and a ponytail. Paul Anderson, who once wistfully mused that he would probably never make a better movie than “Magnolia,” directs the film with the grim, visceral realism of his idol, Martin Scorsese. His jerky angles mimic the horrific pitfalls commonplace in the oil mines, yet Anderson also has the patience to allow the camera to linger. In one scene, the camera focuses on Daniel Plainview’s face; his eyes are lit red from a fire, shrouding his other features in night’s darkness and oil, his words slow and loaded: “I have a competition in me. I want no one else to succeed. I hate most people.”

There are undoubtedly a few “Texas Chainsaw” enthusiasts who will be disappointed to discover that the rumbling, premonitory title doesn’t refer to the quantity of on-screen spillage as much as it does to the film’s violent portrayal of familial ties, but not to worry. Plainview is undoubtedly the worst father since Jack Torrance of “The Shining,” the only difference being that this oil baron wields ambition instead of an axe. The film’s perverse father-son relationship, evocative of “Barn Burning” with a touch of “Tombstone,” is as unsettling as any carnage. And when Plainview refers to himself as a “family man,” the audience, having only seen his good side thus far, shudders at the thought of being in his custody.

Tinted with a Faulknerian concoction of whiskey and blood, the story is actually adapted from the Upton Sinclair novel “Oil!” Unlike Sinclair’s “The Jungle,” however, “There Will Be Blood” unfolds as an exposé of a tyrannical man rather than an industry. But what the film will truly be remembered for is its striking portrayal of the mutual aversion between religion and ambition. At times, Anderson forces us to swallow large, unsavory chunks of religious symbolism. For a film of such savvy, the names are overly simplistic: the secular, no-nonsense Plainview versus the evangelical Sundays. The Moses reference is a bit thinly veiled when, after a miner dies in an accident, Plainview finds the man’s son in a basket and adopts him. Not much of a churchgoer himself, he baptizes the boy with a dab of oil on his forehead—an act that speaks heavy-handedly to the hydrophobic quality of oil, and to the insolubility of such an industry in a community bound by the Church of the Third Revelation.

Anderson’s indulgent symbolism never slips into the blatantly allegorical, however, and is but a slight impurity in this grand black-and-gold geyser of an epic. The final scene depicts a sprawled Plainview gnawing on a leftover steak in the lurid, Gatsbyan splendor of his mansion. It culminates with the perfect blend of symmetry, closure, and ambiguity, and is punctuated with one of the greatest double entendres of recent cinema. Despite the portentous title and the film’s uncanny suggestion that almost all of our prophets are false, I found myself enthralled, horrified, and drawn to repeat Plainview’s comment on the fire-and-brimstone sermon he interrupts: “That was one God damn hell of a good show.”