2 THE DAVIDSONIAN IN NEWS

Real Talk confronts homophobia

By CLINT SMITH
Staff Writer

“Faggot.” There are a lot of ways to say this word, but that doesn’t mean that any of them are
right. It can be said within the context of two friends messing around with one another or used to offend
someone of a different sexual orientation. The focus of the “Davidson’s Homophobia,” a symposium conducted by Real Talk of SGA,
was to make an effort to educate the Davidson Community about a discouraging phenomenon occurring within both the confines of
Davidson and around the world.

The Monday-night symposium was moderated by Robert Galloway ’09, Blake Poole ’08, and Jessica Harding ’08 in the Sprinkle Room.
The program opened with testimonies of different students discussing situations where they had been personally affected or discriminated against due
to other students’ homophobic sentiments. Much contention surrounded the word “fag,” referred to throughout the program as “the f-word.” One
story relayed concerned a student who had straight yet effeminate friends who are often scared to go to the Outpost
or even the Court generally because they were afraid, based on previous experiences, that they would be subject to hate,
intolerance, and ridicule from intoxicated students.

Dean of Students and Vice President of Student Life Tom Shandley entered the discussion by claiming that the administration has
been made aware of these acts of bigotry and has made an effort to revamp the “Code of Responsibility” to
accommodate acts of homosexual intolerance. However, Shandley noted that in the last few years there has only been one case
reported to the Honor Council. He said that if more cases and names of perpetrators were reported, then the administration
would be able to address the issue more adequately and effectively.

Another great concern that was voiced by many of the students regarded the living arrangements of people who may be
homosexual, bisexual, or transgendered. A former Davidson student and GSA President acknowledged that while the co-ed housing policy is a
step in the right direction, there are countless problems that can come about if a gay student comes into a
homophobic environment. For instance, he stated that if a gay student were placed with a homophobic roommate, that arrangement would
cause discomfort for both parties. “The transition to Davidson is hard enough, and for someone not to feel comfortable and
secure within their own living space is an unfortunate yet realistic problem that many students here face. Some sort of
policy should be instituted so that students don’t have to go the entire year living like that,” he said.

Admissions counselors in attendance explained that they do their best to troubleshoot before such issues arise, but maintained that that
is oftentimes a very difficult and tricky task. They said that when reviewing and accepting applications they try to reach
out to students who may indirectly imply that, even if they aren’t gay, they have a special connection to the
homosexual community, whether it be through a parent, friend, or sibling. If a potential Davidson student shows hesitancy about coming
based on living arrangements, then the appropriate administration officials would engage in dialogue and do their best to accommodate them.
The counselor added that there are options on the roommate selection form that give students the opportunity to claim if
they are gay or if they are uncomfortable around gays so as to create the best and most comfortable living
arrangement for all involved.

On hand to discuss the issue from a faculty member’s perspective was Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of
Faculty Clark Ross. He stated that the faculty is aware of the increase in the homosexual population amongst the student
body, yet some remain uncomfortable discussing the issue with their students. Several students stated that many homosexual students feel uncomfortable
discussing such an issue with a professor for fear that it will result in lower grades or partiality amongst administration
officials.

One student inquired how Davidson’s Presbyterian affiliation affects the Admissions decisions of whether to accept students who may be openly
homosexual. The Admissions officers claimed that they look for diversity of all types when reviewing applications and homosexuality is included
in that.

Over the course of the program, several students agreed that there should be an effort to make people more aware
about chauvinistic acts of homophobia through email just as it is being done for the acts of racism occurring on
campus. This way, students who may be unaware of those incidents will no longer be ignorant of them.

Towards the end of the program, one student brought up the possibility of starting an organization similar to S.T.R.I.D.E. which
would be geared toward getting together people of different sexual orientations so that they can create a foundation.and network of
trusted people before the academic year begins. Topics discussed included creating hall

See Real, page 4

Honor Code Statistics
Honor Council Violations: Fall 2007

Admitted Guilt
Sanction
1 Cheating (Not Plagiarism)
1 Stealing
1 Stealing and lying about official college business

Contested Verdict
1 Stealing
Not-guilty
1 Cheating (Plagiarism)
Guilty

Total number of cases: 5
Guilty: 4
Not guilty: 1

Sanction
F&3 authorized withdrawals
40 hours of community service
Full restitution of funds; suspension Spring 2008
Full restitution of funds**

Sanction
None
F&3 Authorized withdrawals; suspension Spring 2008

*Original sanction handed down by the Honor Council
**Revised sanction handed down by the Review Board

Davidson students visit the Sacred Steps on the Camino Exhibition in the College Union. The exhibit runs through February 24th.
It is free and open to the public.

‘Steps’ offer taste of an actual pilgrimage
By Nina MACE
Staff Writer

Davidson is hosting the Sacred Steps on the Camino Exhibition in Rooms 302 and 313 in the Alvarez College Union
through Feb. 24th. The exhibition features the photographs, paintings, and sketches of artists from the United States and Canada, inspired
by the Camino de Santiago. These modern-day pilgrims travel through Northern Spain to visit the shrine and relics of St.
James the Apostle in Galicia. The journey is typically undertaken on foot, and is one of the most popular Christian
pilgrimages, though it has been undertaken by pilgrims from a variety of faith traditions.

The collection is comprised of a selection of images from a digital database of 6,000 images inspired by the Camino.
The works are meant to take the visitor on the pilgrimage, intentionally separated into separate rooms in the Union to
mirror the progression of the pilgrimage from the French border to Santiago in the west. Experiencing the exhibit at Davidson
takes considerably less time than the actual pilgrimage, which spans 500 miles and takes about a month when traveled by
foot. 100,000 people check in officially as pilgrims to travel at least some part of the Camino, and a quarter
million people per year visit the city of Galicia. About 60% of the pilgrims are from Spain and 40% from
other countries (11% are American).

Dr. George Greenia, Professor of Modern Languages and Literatures at William and Mary, is the curator of the exhibit and
a pilgrim himself. Greenia and Dr. Xose Suarez, an archeologist and representative of the Xacobeo Foundation, were visiting Davidson for
the reception the evening of Tuesday, Feb. 12th. The Xacobeo Foundation works to make sure the route is well-maintained and
is one of the sponsors of the exhibit.

The pieces included in this exhibit were selected by Greenia’s undergraduate students, and he believes the exhibit has particular relevance
for college students.

“The pilgrimage is a chance to take ownership of your life and body,” Greenia said. “It’s a way for students
to take responsibility for their lives and confront the world.” Greenia has taken groups of William and Mary students to
Spain for the Camino. “Every student obsessed less about their majors, carried less in their backpack, didn’t go shopping for
recreation, and spent more time with their families,” Greenia said.

Greenia came to speak at Davidson last year, stimulating a lot of student interest in the Camino and in traveling
to Spain. Dr. Samuel Sánchez-Sánchez, Assistant Professor of Spanish, was contacted about bringing the exhibit to Davidson and agreed enthusiastically.
“We can all relate to pilgrimages,” Sánchez-Sánchez said.

The artwork represents diverse artistic styles and subjects. “The artwork provides ways for pilgrims to preserve and share intimate memories
from the Camino. It’s a way of inviting others to share that space imaginatively.”

One of the most meaningful locations on the Camino is an iron cross located at the highest point of the
route. A mound of stones left there by pilgrims surrounds the cross. Pilgrims carry stones as tokens of remembrances for
a variety of reasons, such as their sins, sorrows, and people they care about. Pilgrims then leave their stones at
the cross, as a symbol of entrusting their sins and sorrows to God. “There are few places on earth that
can accept the stones we carry,” Greenia said.

While the Camino is personally important for those who undertake the pilgrimage, Suarez emphasizes the historical importance of the Camino
in unifying Europe. Suarez said archeological and historical evidence of the pilgrimage can be found in a variety of locations
across Europe. For a little while, we find a taste of it in Davidson.

The exhibition is free and open to the public. It is sponsored by the embassy of Spain in Washington D.C.
and the Xunta de Galicia (Spanish governmental agency), the Spanish Department, OLAS, and DIA.
