2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

100 percent

PETER HANSEL
Environmental Intern

Duke Dormitory became the first building on campus to be LEED Certified on Thursday. LEED is a prestigious award given
by the United States Green Building Council and stands for “Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design.” The certification is difficult
to obtain and requires that the structure meet a number of criteria in environmental sustainability. Duke is also the first
LEED Certified building for the town of Davidson and becomes one of only 43 in the greater Charlotte area.

President Ross spoke at the award ceremony citing the certification as an important achievement for Davidson College, especially during the
Year of Sustainability. “This is an exciting day for us, indeed,” Ross said. “Our goal is to become carbon neutral
on campus, and this is a big step in that direction.”

David Holthauser, Director of Facilities Management for Davidson College, took on the challenge of making Duke Dormitory more energy efficient
and sustainable during the renovation of Duke in 2006-2007. Duke meets 26 of the 69 criteria points required for a
U.S. Green Building making it the first level “certified” out of four levels. The levels are Certified, Silver, Gold, and
Platinum. The criteria points take into account the building site, water efficiency, energy use, building materials, indoor environmental quality, and
innovation.

Thursday in Duke Dormitory.

Who’s Who at Davidson?

Because of their outstanding record of service, leadership, and scholarship, the following students were selected by faculty, staff, and fellow
students as members of Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges. 2008/2009:

Brian Peter Aoyama
Cameron Scott Barr
Richmond Paul Blake
Emily Hodgdon Cannon
Kelli Jane Carroll
Felipe Nicolas Cisneros
Emanuel Larry Leggett Clark
Lazetta Ashley Crawford
Katharine Holden Currie
Angelina Elizabeth Darrisaw
William Cain DeLoache
Suzanne Elizabeth Eckl
Sarah Barnes Filipski
Robert Lord Galloway
Jennifer Nicole Geyer
Andrew Jason Gorang
Hugh Davis Greene
Ebony Monique Harley

News

LEED certified Duke uses 23 percent less water than average due to low-flush toilets. Seventy-five percent of the roofing reflects
heat which reduces air-conditioning costs. Thirty-one percent of the building was built using recycled materials. Eighty percent of the waste
generated in the construction/renovation was recycled or reused. In addition, the building contains a central air system, low-VOC paints, and
air quality monitors.

“This is an exciting day for us. Our goal is to become carbon neutral on campus, and this is a
big step in that direction.” -President Tom Ross

Holthauser is proud of this accomplishment and is optimistic about future construction projects on campus. He stated that Duke Dormitory
has opened the door for further projects. Furthermore, President Ross stressed that the College will require that all future renovation
or building projects be LEED certified and hopes that they will meet “Silver” qualifications. Davidson is currently applying for two
additional LEED certifications for campus buildings. The Admissions building and Cunningham Fine Arts building are expected to meet LEED Certified
qualifications.

Stephen James Kalin
Utsha Genevieve Khatri
Carolyn Susan Klaasen
Sara Katherine Knicely
Robert Harrison Lassiter
Andrew O. Lovedale
Neely Elizabeth Meeks
Maria Jose Mejia
Rebecca Grace Morton
Maxime Paulhus Gosselin
Chieko Takai Phillips
Audrey Christine Pomeroy
Mercedes L. Robinson
Stephen Patrick Rossiter
Darell Singleterry, Jr.
Anna Marie Smith
Joseph Kwame Som-Pimpong
Sally Wickham Stephenson
Anne Prescott Stevens
Paul Archibald Stroup, IV
Jaclyn Claire Tan
Vaidehi M. Trivedi
Colby Charles Uptegraft
Benjamin Prime Van Dyke
Jessica Ayana Walker
Hugh Marshall Worsham III
Cary Vernon Wright

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2008

Santa Claus repelled down the side of Chambers this past Monday, making his grand appearance at the Davidson College Christmas
Party.

FRANCISCO FIALLO
Staff Writer

During its weekly meeting last Thursday, the Student Government Association (SGA) heard from Donny Edwards, Associate Director of Residence Life,
about new changes made to the housing lottery. The Residence Life Office (RLO) has made several changes to streamline the
process, and focus more...Efficient allocations of off-campus housing and Martin Court apartments. Edwards also talked about efforts to cope with
a serious housing shortage expected as students return from study abroad programs. The biggest problem RLO was trying to avoid
involved giving Martin Court apartments to seniors who were trying to get off-campus housing. Students who successfully obtained off-campus housing
then abandoned those apartments, which then went to groups that were on a waiting list. This method effectively penalizes groups
that fail to get apartments and settle for other on-campus housing, and unfairly rewards groups with low lottery numbers.

In the changed housing timeline, off-campus permission is given in two rounds. The first round will contain most of the
75-100 housing slots and is meant for students who wish to have off-campus housing over a Martin Court apartment. The
second round will occur after senior apartments have been assigned and is targeted towards people who prefer Martin Court over
off-campus. Round two will contain fewer slots, and any people who fail to receive permission will be placed on a
waiting list and required to select on-campus housing.

Edwards also talked about the anticipated housing shortage next semester. The crisis is more severe for women: 121 female students
are returning to campus, but only 30 will be leaving. For men, 72 are returning and 33 are departing. Because
some rooms on campus are currently empty and some returning students are choosing to live off-campus, RLO is 28 women’s
and 2 men’s beds short for the spring semester. RLO plans to resolve the shortage by moving students into college-owned
off-campus housing, turning the lounge of Martin Court F into an apartment, and converting the basement of the college Guest
House into housing.

Senior Class Senator Richmond Blake ’09 asked if the students assigned these temporary housing arrangements had been allowed to seek
off-campus housing. Edwards responded by saying those students had yet to be notified and that RLO would keep options open
for those students.

Edwards also notified the SGA that RLO was going to be making structural changes to the housing lottery that would
make seniority more of a factor in determining housing. There will now be a one-hundred point buffer between the range
of lottery numbers awarded to each class. In addition, RLO has begun investigating whether it can significantly cut operating expenses
by eliminating or reducing phone service in the dorms. The results of those inquiries should be available early on in
the next semester.

In other news, an effort to mitigate the negative effects of grade deflation has stalled. The initiative would give students
the option of attaching a cover sheet to copies of their outgoing transcripts. The cover sheet would contain a short
description of the college’s environment, the mean GPA, and quartile breakdowns, letting prospective employers and graduate schools better evaluate applicants.
The SGA had previously approved the cover sheet, but meetings with the faculty’s Educational Policy Committee (EPC) have suspended it.
According to SGA Academic Policy Committee chair Colby Uptegraft ’09, at least one faculty member was concerned that Davidson’s mean
GPA is thought to be much lower than it is, with unfavorable results for students.

Senator Alex Hunger ’09 is a senior who hopes to work for a small art gallery after graduation. She said
that those galleries would have zero expectations regarding a “Davidson GPA,” and that without showing her performance relative to her
peers at Davidson, her grades would seem subpar. Hunger also pointed out that the addition of a cover letter is
entirely voluntary and students who fear being penalized by it should simply opt out. The EPC will revisit the issue
at its next meeting. In the meantime, students have the option of attaching a class profile to their transcripts. The
profile contains the same statistical information as the cover sheet, but no descriptions about the college.
