6 THE DAVIDSONIAN SEE PAGE 7 | Friday first ever recorded ‘Great day to be in Detroit SEE PAGE 2 Community comes to its senses, realizes ‘Sweet Caroline’ still just a Neil Diamond song SEE PAGE 5 suicide note SEE PAGE? Sheltered freshman doesn’t get ‘8 Mile’ joke SEE PAGE 8 Yowl editors wish April Fools Day had fallen on Wednesday SEE PAGE 10 Stephen Curry is son of former NBA sharp-shooter Dell SEE PAGE 12 THE YOWL Your Davidsonian Honor Section Editors: James Boswell Alex Hoyt Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word. NOT TO BE CONTINUED ISSUE WEDNESDAY, APRIL 2, 2008

The Davidsonian Trustees Renege on Debt-Free Promise

According to a perky email from President Ross’s secretary, Davidson students will no longer be guaranteed to graduate debt-free. The email cited numerous reasons why the college would again have to resort to student loans, among them a poor economy, the ongoing war in Iraq, the financial burden of providing students with a quasi-free laundry service, and a few bad nights in Vegas involving roulette and the school’s endowment. But the biggest reason for the debt-free fiasco was undoubtedly the massive and totally unexpected student response to the promise.

“We thought maybe a few dozen would take us up on the offer,” said Chairman of the Board of Trustees Skip Kingsley ’62, who admitted that the debt-free dream, born in the inebriated minds of several fanciful trustees then drinking at the Brickhouse, had been tenuous and half-baked. “We never thought about how it would affect tuition, or the smoldering remnants of our endowment, or my ability to retire to Palm Beach,” Kingsley said.

President Ross, via his secretary, took pains to remind the student body of the trustees’ generosity and noble intentions. He also stressed that students who did not get a seat on one of the seven buses out of debt should immediately email his secretary, who would place them on the waitlist.

Admissions Director Looks Forward to Rejecting More Applications

In the aftermath of the men's basketball team's historic run through the NCAA tournament, the Admissions Department expects a significant spike in the number of applications to Davidson. Despite high marks in the do-or-die rankings of the prestigious U.S. News and World Report, Davidson has still failed to truly establish itself in the nation's conscience. Until now.

For a school that prides itself on its already low admission rate, the added attention couldn't be sweeter. “We are certain that all of this media coverage will cause the number of applications to rise,” said Admissions director Julie Abrams. “And that, of course, means we get to reject more applicants.”

Abrams said that the extra applications have already started pouring in. “I've never seen the office this crazy,” she said. “Our whole team just can't wait to get started on rejecting these kids.”

Until the last few weeks, Davidson has relied primarily on a staunch word-of-mouth advertising policy. Now, high school seniors can pick up a USA Today and read about Davidson nearly every day.day. “All of these kids who never would have heard about Davidson, they're the ones I'm truly excited for. Thanks to the basketball team, so many more kids have the opportunity to be rejected.” Though the Admissions Department has already sent out several hundred rejection letters, they've got a long way to go. “If we keep up a pace of rejecting around 100 kids a day, we'll still be working hard well into the month of May. This is why I come to work every day,” Abrams said. “Rejecting kids is the best part of my job, and now I get to do it a whole lot more. It's a great day to be a Wildcat.”

Alex Hoyt ’09

Eking out Stephen Curry ’10 for general coolness and three-point shooting. It is unclear whether those students would be waiting for grants, work-study jobs, handouts, or nothing at all. According to his email, any impecunious student willing to graduate with his or her crippling debt might or might not be reimbursed with a generous pension plan at some time within the next half-century. Junior Amy Mandelbaum, who has been living in abject poverty in the Sophomore Apartments for two years running, was optimistic about her debt. “It sucks that because of their deficient foresight I’ll probably never be able to redeem my credit history or pay off my mortgage if I’m lucky enough to get one, but I guess it’s the thought that counts.”

A wistful Kingsley waxed somberly about a feeling of déjà vu. “I was seven, and my dad offered to take us to Disney World. We had seven kids in the family. Our Studebaker only seated five. Somehow Dad got his math wrong, or maybe he didn’t know how many children he had. Either way, my brother Frank and I got stuck going to the Mooresville bowling alley and things were never really the same. So when we had the chance to let students graduate debt-free, I leapt at the opportunity. I thought that I could somehow right my father’s wrong, that I could enable all deprived and neglected children. I just really wish we’d thought this thing through.”

Athletics Dept. Lacks Email Voice Modulation

EVEN THOUGH THE CATS ARE OUT OF THE TOURNAMENT, I’M STILL GOING TO SEND REDUNDANT,

Area Man Announces Plan to Turn Boxers Inside-Out, Wear Them Again

Local comic book store employee Raymond Polanski shocked friends and family on Friday afternoon when he announced a revolutionary new money-saving scheme. Polanski, who has held the same position as sales associate at Cornelius Comics for seven years, says he rarely engages in the minimal amount of physical activity required for a human body to perspire. Therefore, he plans to stretch his laundry rotation twice as far as it’s ever gone before. By turning his undies inside-out and wearing them again the next day, Polanski will get twice the mileage he used to from each pair of drawers.

Undressing before bed last week, Polanski noticed his johns “really didn’t stink that bad.” Rather than reaching for a fresh pair of all-white Hanes, he simply inverted the same pair and laid them out for the next day. Polanski has never been happier, projecting monthly savings of 67 cents on the laundry detergent he would otherwise be “wasting.”