16 Kris HENDERSHOT Staff Writer

The field hockey team earned fifth place in the NorPac conference this past week by coming up with two wins
after a loss to Stanford. They earned the ranking with an overtime win over Appalachian State University and a final
second win over Radford University.

The tournament in Farmville, Virginia began with a 4-2 loss to second seed Stanford University. The girls attempted a comeback
but ran out of time to complete a victory after allowing three goals in the first half. Midfielder Sarah Addison
’09 scored the two Davidson goals in the second half. The two scores were Addison’s first goals of the season.
Her first goal was assisted by midfielder Kathelijn van der Ven ’12, when she drew the defense to her before
slipping the pass through to Addison for the goal. Addison’s second goal was also assisted by van der Ven on
a very similar play. Van der Ven’s second assist of the game gave her eight for the year, which tied
her for the school record in assists for a single season with Britti Himelfarb ’09. Both Van der Ven and
Himelfarb were named to the NorPac All-Conference team earlier last week.

The first half was not dominated by Stanford as Davidson also had scoring opportunities but was unable to capitalize on
them. There were two quality scoring chances off of penalty corners along with other chances. In the second half, the
Wildcat offense was very impressive and the team dominated possession for many minutes. The goaltending and defense also played very
well as goaltender Christa Goeke ’10 recorded six saves, which brings her total to 74 for the season and the
career total to 250 and fifth place for the school record.

After the difficult loss to Stanford, the Wildcats faced an elimination consolation game against Appalachian State which they won 3-2
in double overtime. The win put them in the fifth place game. The team responded to the pressure and won
when midfielder Liz Luckey ’10 scored the game-winning goal in the second overtime to move the Wildcats onto the next
round. The goal was Luckey’s first goal of the season and was assisted by defender Sara Stevens ’09 who recorded
her first point of her career. Perry scored the first goal of the game and her fifth of the season,
while Himelfarb tallied her sixth assist of the year. The assist made her the second player in school history to
have 20 or more career assists. The offense dominated the first half with a shot margin of 10-2. Early in
the second half, defender Tyler Kirkland ’09 scored her sixth goal of the season. Kirkland was also named to the
NorPac All-Conference Team and was awarded the Sheryl Johnson Academic Excellence Award from the conference. She is also second for
most goals scored on the team. Goaltender Brittany Rollek ’09 made two huge saves in the overtime periods and had
six for the game. Davidson outshot Appalachian State 22-12 and had a 10-7 advantage in penalty corners. Luckey and Himelfarb
each had game highs with five shots. After the incredible victory, Davidson improved to 7-14 and moved on to the
fifth place game against Radford.

The pressure was intense for the fifth place match against Radford. The Wildcats were victorious with a 3-2 score. The
team came in as the seventh seed but with the victory left with fifth place in the conference for the
year. The tournament was the perfect place for the team to play some of its best hockey.

See Hockey, page 15

Ray FRANCIS
The Davidsonian
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2008

Liz Luckey’s ’09 overtime goal was the difference in the ’Cats win over App. St. in the NorPac tournament.

Wildcats waste early lead, fall to San Diegoa=y ~ Photo by Aaron Robinson: Myles Potter ’09 had four catches for
35 yards in the Wildcats' heartbreaking loss to San Diego on Saturday.

Player of the Week Peter Bakke ‘09

FOOTBALL
ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA

Staff Writer

Matt Jelmini rushed for 133 yards and John Matthews added 140 yards receiving and three touchdowns as the San Diego
Toreros handed Davidson a heartbreaking 28-24 defeat on Saturday. Quarterback Ryan Alexander ‘09 set a school record by completing 77%
of his passes. He was 21-27 for 214 yards and two touchdowns, but also threw three interceptions. Andrew Aldrich ’10
had 68 yards receiving on six catches and recorded a touchdown. Chad Barnes ‘09 had 51 rushing yards on seven
carries and Kenny Mantuo ’11 had 34 yards on 10 carries. Justin Williams ‘11 returned the opening kickoff 98 yards
for a touchdown. Peter Bakke ‘09 led the Wildcat defense with 13 tackles and an interception.

Davidson jumped out to a 21-0 second-quarter lead behind Williams’ return and Alexander’s passing. The Wildcats drove 60 yards on
their first possession after San Diego had fumbled the snap on a field goal attempt and found pay dirt when
Aldrich caught Alexander’s seven-yard strike. Alexander then led Davidson 80 yards on the next possession and found Michael Blanchard ‘11
for a two-yard touchdown. The Toreros answered almost as quickly, scoring on a 3-play drive when Sebastian Trujillo found Matthews
for a 24-yard touchdown pass. After San Diego blocked a Wildcat punt, the pair hooked up again on a 28-yard
completion to pull the Toreros within 21-14. San Diego threatened again before halftime, but Bakke intercepted Trujillo’s pass on the
Davidson 3-yard line on the final play of the first half to preserve Davidson’s halftime lead.

San Diego managed to tie the game on their first possession of the second half, as Matthews added his third
touchdown reception from nine yards out. Davidson reclaimed the lead on Ben Behrendt’s ‘11 24-yard field goal with 2:19 remaining
in the third quarter. The lead would change hands for the final time with 8:51 to play, when Trujillo scored
on a 1-yard sneak on fourth-and-goal to give his team the lead. Davidson had held the Toreros on two previous
attempts from the one-yard line. Alexander led the Wildcats 54 yards in response, reaching the San Diego 15. However, on
second down, Derek Pilkington intercepted Alexander and returned the ball 45 yards into Davidson territory. San Diego proceeded to pick
up two first downs and run out the remaining 4:50 of the game clock.

“This is especially disappointing because I felt like we played well enough to win,” Wildcat coach Tripp Merritt said. “Football
is a game of inches, and we just gave away too many today.” Turnovers were again a problem for Davidson.
Alexander’s other interception snuffed out a possible scoring drive in the second quarter, and he also lost a fumble at
midfield in the opening period. “We felt like this was our game to win, and we let it slip away,”
linebacker Brandon Yeargan ‘11 said.

See Football, page 15

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Calve’s late goal propels ‘Cats past Radford for 5th place in NorPac

Davidson and Radford were tied 2-2 in the 5th place match of the NorPac Tournament and appeared headed for overtime
when Lauren Calve ‘09 scored off a pass from Clare Perry ‘11 with 27 seconds remaining to give the Wildcats
the 3-2 victory. It was Calve’s second game-winning goal of the season.

The senior linebacker led the Wildcats’ defense with 13 tackles and an interception in the Wildcats' 28-24 loss to San
Diego over the weekend. In addition, Bakke was named to the ESPN the Magazine All-District III All-Academic Team along with
Kirk Konert ’09 and Myles Potter ’09.
