THE DAVIDSONIAN

Plant biology professor: “It's like watching grass grow” SEE PAGE 7 | Anything But Clothes Party should have been anywhere
but Rusk SEE PAGE 19 | Girl gets Chicken, fingers at Outpost SEE PAGE 2 Yowl now accepting applications for
new ombudsman SEE PAGE 2 Stephen Curry SEE PAGE 3

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Honor Section Editors: James Boswell, Alex Hoyt Incumbent ombudsmen: El Tom Whitey Unintentional fodder: Will Blue Other guy:
Sonno Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth.

THE ISSUES ISSUE — UB ORTA

Kids: Can't live with them, can't shoot them.

Men’s Basketball Team Provides Area Senior Citizens with First Hope Since New Deal

For the first time since Franklin Roosevelt’s New Deal rejuvenated the economy, local senior citizens have something besides Golden Girls
to get them through the day. Bert and Bosworth didn’t have faith in anything until the Men’s Basketball team’s success
allowed him to pass his kidney stone. “This basketball team is the best thing that’s happened to me since social
security,” said local old-timer Bertrand Bosworth. “When Stephen Curry hit that step-back three to put us up five against Georgetown,
I was able to piss pain-free for the first time in nine years.” Bosworth said that if a human being
can hustle as much on defense as Max Paulhus Gosselin, then the cure for cancer has to be out there.
“I don’t believe my grandkids really love me,” said Mooresville octogenarian Betsy Woolford. “But I believe in that Thomas Sander.
Handsome, too.”

Senior citizens flocked by the thousands to Belk Arena Tuesday night to commemorate the success of the men’s basketball team.
Most attendees cited the defunct ABA’s Kentucky Colonels as their favorite franchise and were shocked to learn that a shot
clock had been instituted in 1954. They were, however, very tuned-in to Davidson’s run to the Elite Eight. “I hate
Jayhawks more than I hate Krauts,” said Bosworth. “I hadn’t cried since the 30s, but I sobbed like a baby
that night.”

Disney Releases New Features

‘Fox and the Hound 2: Fox vs. Hound.” In a dystopian future in which Alien, Predator, and the Terminator have
killed each other, there exist only two dominant forces: the cunning, malevolent fox (voice of Samuel L. Jackson) and the
relentless hound (Christian Bale), who will stop at nothing to avenge the playful scratch inflicted on him by Fox in
the 1987 Disney original.

“The Jungle (Book): Streets of Chicago.” Based on Upton Sinclair’s revolting exposition of the meatpacking industry, this sequel to the
1978 Kipling adaptation was slated to be the first-known animated musical about sausage production. Mowgli, having recently immigrated to the
U.S., is reunited with Bagheera and Baloo when he finds his friends’ entrails and incisors in a bin of sausage.
Not for the squeamish.

“Aladdin and Monkey Go to White Castle.” Constantly blazed off hashish on the palace balcony, Aladdin and his monkey embark
on an epic carpet ride to Istanbul in search of Doner Kebabs and a new lease on life.

‘Sleeping with Beauty.” Soft-core remake of the 1959 original. Princess Aurora (voice of Jenna Jamieson) receives a very different prick
than the one a spinning wheel gave her animated predecessor.

‘Robin’s Hood.” On the streets of Compton, Robin and his Merry Men steal from other destitute gangs and keep it
for themselves. Features the voices of Eminem as Robin, Ice Cube as Friar Tuck, and DMX as The Sheriff of
Nottingham. Coolio steps in for the guitar-plucking rooster. Snoop Dogg stars as the evil prince regent biding his time in
Detroit. Decidedly not for children.

Freshman guy tries longboarding, fails, takes up smoking

Smoking is just as sweet as longboarding and has none of the short-term dangers. Having never fully grasped the slalom
sidewalk surf, freshman loser Mike Crandle traded in his carbon fiber longboard for a carton of Camel Lights. “Smoking has
allthe cache of longboarding and none of the safety risks,” Crandle said, taking a long drag. During his year-long boarding
phase, Mike struggled to carve, pump, and slide brake, often only thinking about the relaxing puffs that awaited him at
the bottom of the hill. “Quitting longboarding wasn’t easy, and I definitely couldn’t do it cold turkey,” Schmidt said. “But
at least I now have a hobby that won’t rack up a costly medical bill.”

UBERTAS - April 16, 2008

Pane Mozilla Firefox vs. Sonic the Hedgehog:
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16, 2008

The Davidsonian Battle for imaginary critter supremacy

Sonic the Hedgehog recently edged Mozilla’s Firefox as the fastest imaginary midsized burrowing mammal at the Imaginary Midsized Burrowing Mammal
Awards held right off the Royal Raceway at Peach’s Castle. “I have to thank the creators of Sonic 2. Had
I not been able to curl up into a ball and charge up my spins, I never would have been
able to achieve the speeds necessary to come home with this award,” Sonic said Tuesday after accepting the prestigious award.
Among those in Sonic’s entourage at the ceremony: lifetime sidekick, Miles “Tails” Prower. “It’s not a surprise to me at
all that Sonic walked away with this one. Whenever he throws on those red racing shoes he simply is unstoppable.
Had they not allowed me to come back to life after trailing off screen, I never would have been able
to keep up with Sonic and help him defeat Doctor Robotnik.”

The judges said that their decision was swayed by Sonic’s never-ending hunger for rings and chaos crystals, while Mozilla’s speed
is weakened by poor internet connections and splotchy wireless blankets. “I hate to be a sore loser, but I can’t
help feeling I was robbed here at Peach’s Castle. If I didn’t have a ‘very low’ speed rating on Davidson’s
wireless blanket, that trophy would be on its way to my mantelpiece.” Another factor the judges considered was Sonic’s ability
to break into boxes and put on an impermeable shield, whereas Firefox can be invaded and slowed down by worms
or Trojan horses. Other notable attendees at the Imaginary Midsized Burrowing Mammal awards were Diddy Kong, Papa Beaver, and the
Lorax.

Archivist Appreciates the Simple Things in Life

Maybe you’ve seen me around. Probably not. I understand. I mean, I do spend most of every day secluded in
the deepest, darkest corner of the library. I am the archivist, and that means nothing to you now, reader, because
the effects of my daily clerical work will not be appreciated or even noticed for several years. Of course, if
you wanted to access the minutes from a 1974 meeting of the Davidson Equestrian Club, I’m your girl. How about
the by-laws for the short-lived Davidsonians for a Warmer Globe? I’m the one to ask. Don’t believe me? Look it
up. Ha! You have to go through me to do that! You see, archivists have a sense of humor, too.

Lest you think I spend every day staring at the poster of a beach scene I tacked to the wall
of my windowless office 11 years ago, let me explain that we few, proud members of the worldwide archivist’s fraternity
are physically capable of cracking jokes and smiles from time to time. For me in particular, it’s all about the
little things in life. Yesterday, for instance, I placed my cell phone on my lap after getting off the phone
with my mother. Several hours passed without my moving from my chair, so let me tell you what kind of
a shock I got when the phone started vibrating between my legs! That was some afternoon delight even the stingiest
bibliophile can enjoy. So, now that you know I’m not gathering cobwebs in the depths of the library, let me
get back to forwarding this chain email to my niece.

Radically experimental poet uses rhyme, meter SEE PAGE 12

Officer Jackson shows off guns, lack of decorum SEE PAGE 2
