THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2008

Film fest comes to Charlotte

JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Arts and Living Editor

Charlotte’s third annual Film Festival begins tomorrow and will run through Sunday. The city’s vibrant downtown district will play host
to more than 50 films that range from animated shorts to longer documentaries. Whatever your genre preference, the festival is
sure to offer a wide spectrum of quality entertainment.

Indie Film Force, Inc. oversees the four-day festival, and seeks to provide the “community with an extraordinary cultural experience by
screening the most important works of independent film.” The organization lists a specific criterion for a film to be considered
worthy. The film must encourage discussion, call attention to important current issues, and use the medium of film as a
creative outlet for expression.

In 2006, the first festival attracted over 2,000 attendants, and the next year numbers rose to 3,300. This year, festival
organizers hope for even larger numbers. Anyone who makes it to the festival has the choice of viewing feature-length narratives,
documentaries, short films, and student films. Films are chosen for competition in the festival based on originality of idea, creativity,
and storytelling.

As serious as this all sounds, the festival knows how to get in touch with its fun side. Thursday night,
in the heart of Uptown Charlotte, fans can mingle with filmmakers at the Opening Night Gala. For an online ticket
price of $55, partygoers will enjoy hors d’oeuvres and cocktails on the rooftop of the Mint Museum of Craft and
Design. Mama Ricotta’s will cater the food. After socializing, guests have the opportunity to view the screening of the opening
night film. The festival’s opener remains to be announced.

The event offers a diverse array of films. Head to the Afro-American Cultural Center on Saturday night for a thought-provoking
cinematic journey to New Orleans. “Katrina’s Children” features the hurricane experiences of nineteen children from ages five to 13. Told
entirely from the children’s point of view, the movie encompasses the tragic impact a natural disaster can cause. Director Laura
Belsey manages to capture what many children may have been afraid to express to their parents or other adults in
their lives.

“It was interesting when we screened the film for some of the parents and the kids,” said Belsey to the
Miami Herald last month. “The parents were really moved. They had no idea the kids were thinking those thoughts. It
just goes to show that if you take the time and pay attention and if you’re quiet enough... you hear
things.”

Though “Katrina’s Children” focuses on domestic issues, several films add international flavor. For example, “Nacht vor Augen” (“A Hero’s Welcome”)
is a 2008 German drama by Brigitte Maria Bertelle. This movie touches on the radical changes a soldier undergoes in
the transition from warfare to home life. The young soldier in the film is welcomed as a hero when he
returns home after saving his troop by killing an Afghan fighter. Guilt and frustration,

See Festival, page 6

HANNAH JAKOSB
Staff Writer

“My Best Friend’s Girl” is the perfect date movie. Not only is it hilarious, but it is balanced with enough
romance for any girl and sufficient dirty humor for any guy. With a great cast led by Dane Cook as
the womanizing Tank, Kate Hudson as the beautiful Alexis, and Jason Biggs as the desperate best friend/ex-boyfriend Dustin, the movie
is sure to please both sexes.

For Tank Turner, a typical night involves a terrible date in which he tortures a poor girl with sexual, yet
humorous, insults, outrageous profanity, and hilarious stunts, and men who have been dumped by their ex-girlfriends hire him for their
own love lives. He then proceeds to exaggerate all possible male flaws in order to “help” the girl realize how
lucky she really was with her ex.

When Tank’s best friend Dustin is told by the love of his life Alexis that he is “Mr. Right,” just
not “Mr. Right Now,” he turns to Tank for help. Tank arrives at her apartment only to be confronted by
a very intoxicated and very enthusiastic Alexis.

Kate Hudson and Dane Cook lead a stellar cast in “My Best Friend’s Girl,” which opened last Friday. Tank tries
his best to make Alexis hate him, but she is not fazed by any of his tricks. Even the graphic
strip bar he takes her to does not seem to upset her. At the end of the date, Tank exerts
serious self-control, because Dustin is hisbest friend, of course, and refuses an offer to go into her apartment. He returns
to his apartment a failure and tries to convince Dustin to let her go. However, Dustin refuses to move on
and gives Tank another shot to make Alexis hate him and return to him. Unfortunately for Dustin, Tank and Alexis’
date goes well and Tank uses less self-

See Hudson, page 6

Fall fashion takes walk on the wild side

JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts and Living Editor

With fall officially here and winter only months away, there’s nothing like a cup of hot chocolate and the latest
trends to keep warm. And after what has seemed like an endless parade of sundresses and white linen, finally we
can rummage through the back closet for those almost-foreign scarves and tights. Get excited, because this season gives timeless fall
pieces a makeover, producing patterns and styles spicier than cider and wilder than Willy Wonka. For those of you who
love that master of confection and combination as much as I do, I promise this season is your chance to
kick back and enjoy a whimsical spin on the typical autumnal austerity. So we begin the tour of the marvelously
mad, effortlessly fresh styles that are fall 2008.

To begin with the most “conservative,” tailored clothes are in high demand. Whether you are in need of a sharp
suit or nice slacks, something cut tastefully and appropriately is the way to go. While colors range from black to
chocolate, beige and cream, have some fun with a bright red or blue blazer. And if you need to stay
relatively subdued on the outside, you can always spice it up with a ruffled or geometric blouse underneath.

The dress arrives once more reaching new heights; above the knee, to be exact. Actually, mini dresses and skirts are
in vogue: but be sure to trade in bare legs for a pair of tights or leggings. Dresses and skirts
range from cowl neck to trapeze, baby doll and empire waist, and come in silky materials, patterned wool, knits and
fleece. You can even try a mini or bolero jacket to stay warm.

Take note, fashionistas: animal prints are officially in. Wear them in the form of a short mini dress and you'll
be dressed to kill.

Pants this fall remain relatively calm in terms of cut, i.e. no ultra-low or high waist, and no flared bottoms,
but have fun with colors and materials. Red, cobalt blue and hunter green are great choices, and very practical, as
you can rely on your lower half to carry the outfit’s statement. Jeans are eternal, but trade in the super-skinny
for boot-cut, relaxed fit or even some with a slight stretch, which in reality create the best lines. Denim aside,
pants in plaid, corduroy, velour and felt are great choices.

And yes, I already mentioned tights and leggings, but they are so crucial that they deserve an encore. Leg coverings
are this season’s answer to the creativity doldrums, so express yourself with bold colors, patterns and fabrics, with just about
anything you could wear. For instance, take a simple dress (even one from the summer) and put on a pair
of painted or imaged tights for a way to make a frock fabulous. Bright colors, opaques, pinstripes, fishnets, diamonds, animal
prints, florals and zigzags are great choices. And don’t forget about texture, because the difference between herringbone and fine-ribbed knit
can make or break the goal of your image.

Knits are without a doubt strong this season, appearing as chunky sweaters and dresses. Leg warmers add unique flair to
a skirt or dress, and long, thick scarves are perfect for chilly mornings. You can also find knit skirts, but
these tend to be more elusive on the shopping scene, and tend to pill much more quickly.

This fall, it’s perfectly acceptable to be fake and skin deep. A major player on the runways this season is
animal-friendly imitation prints. Leopard jackets, zebra sweaters and snakeskin-printed belts are all you need to take your outfit to the
next level. But not to state the blatantly obvious, choose one pattern and one article, and stick to it. If
someone wants to see the list of endangered animals, they can read a National Geographic.

Believe it or not, after all I have said about crazy colors and patterns, purple is the top-placing “colour du
jour.” Find some way to include a rich mauve, aubergine or violet into your wardrobe to make any outfit

See Fashion, page 6
