DAVIDSON COLLEGE

DUKE DORM EARNS ENERGY KUDOS
Building garners LEED certification
see NEWS, page 2

"NUTCRACKER" BRIEF BUT MOVING
Student dance company Gamut performs to Tchaikovsky’s classic score
see ARTS, page 5

WRESTLING STRONG AT DAVIDSON OPEN
Vitaly Radsky '11 claims career-first tournament victory, team posts two second-place finishes
see SPORTS, page 11

* Horror seminar debuts 10-minute, student-made films, today, 7 p.m., Tyler-Tallman
* Ice cream study break, Fri. 10 p.m., 900 room
* Athletics Dept. Yard Sale, Sat. 5:30 p.m., Baker Sports

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2008

The Davidson College Choral led students in their favorite holiday carols on Monday during the annual Davidson College Christmas Party.

Students safe after Mumbai scare
CLINT SMITH
Staff Writer

Last week in Mumbai, gunmen went on a horrific rampage of terror throughout the wealthy Indian city, killing hundreds of innocent civilians and wounding hundreds more. Over ten different sites in the famous Indian business district were attacked and hostages were held in several locations for days on end before police could infiltrate the various buildings and take down the gunmen.

Obviously, with the ongoing Davidson in India program, many within the Davidson College community have been concerned for the students’ safety. Many will be relieved to know that the students are all safe and in the responsible hands of Davidson professor Dennis Appleyard. Appleyard claims that while there was initially a bit of anxiety within the group as a result of the attacks, all of the students wanted to finish the program.

“All of us have been unnerved by the attacks, of course,” he said. “I am in regular contact with the U.S. Embassy in Delhi for the latest information, and we are registered with the U.S. Department of State and receive updates on the security situation from that department. There was, of course, much discussion right after the attacks, but we have decided to stay on until our program ends on December 17, barring any new developments.”

The group, however, at the suggestion of the United States embassy, will no longer be visiting Mumbai, as they were scheduled to do from December 10-11. Appleyard stressed that the students’ safety was the program’s first priority. He has been in regular contact with Dr. Job Thomas, Director of South Asian Studies at Davidson; Dr. David Martin, Director of the 2006 Semester-in-India Program; Dr. Chris Alexander, Director of [continued on page 3]

Hartwig speaks on HIV/AIDS
Katie Lovett
Staff Writer

International health consultant Dr. Kari Hartwig presented a lecture on ethical issues in HIV research and practice in Africa this past Tuesday. The lecture was sponsored by the Medical Humanities Program, the Frederick Womble Speas Symposium and the Dean Rusk International Studies Program. Dr. Kristie Foley, Associate Professor of Medical Humanities, introduced Hartwig, describing her as “a true, responsible scientist in the area of public health.”

Hartwig has been engaged in international HIV/AIDS programs in Africa, Asia and Latin America for the past twenty years, and has served as Assistant Clinical Professor at the Yale School of Public Health in the Division of Chronic Disease Epidemiology and Social and Behavioral Sciences Program for six years. After receiving her PhD from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Public Health, Hartwig conducted research in Tanzania in 1990 and also spent six years working on an HIV project in Thailand.

Throughout her lecture, Hartwig focused on the theme of “lead, empower, deliver,” as well as on the importance of political leadership.To fulfill commitments of universal access to HIV prevention, treatment, care, and support, Hartwig’s lecture began with recognition of current accomplishments regarding HIV/AIDS research and practice. Groundbreaking retroviral and immunology research has moved at a relatively fast pace in recent years, and both scientists and social scientists have been at the forefront of advocacy. However, Hartwig recognizes the trouble of how “science and research are still catching up with policy and practice recommendations. We are making policies sometimes in the absence of the knowledge of the best science, and this leads to a problem in terms of trust. But the great news is that there has been increasing hope.”

2008 marks the celebration of the 20-year anniversary of World AIDS Day. Hartwig teared up as she stated that 25 million people infected with HIV/AIDS have died since 1988. In order to demonstrate the prevalence of AIDS in Africa, Hartwig had the first two rows of the 900 Room stand up to show the percentage of the room that would be infected with HIV. “It is hard to meet someone in sub-Saharan Africa that has not had someone close to them affected by HIV,” she said. In 2007, of all

See Hartwig, page 4

Volume 100, Number 12

ITS continues to update

ALEX KOWALESKI
Staff Writer

Often during final exam week, a student will enter Little Library or the Belk lab to work on a computer, only to discover that all computers are occupied. In order to reduce these frustrating occurrences, Information Technology Services has unveiled a new tool, OpenSeats. OpenSeats allows students to check online for unoccupied lab computers in real-time. As Shauna’h Fuegen, Student Computing Services Coordinator states: “We realized how busy it was during finals time. We wanted to make that time less stressful for students.”

In order to access OpenSeats, one must go to the ITS home page. On the right side under “Resources” there is a link for “Available Lab Computers.” Opening this link will bring up a list of all public computing labs with graphs showing each location’s currently available computers. The graphs are designed for a student to be able to quickly glance and find open stations. If a student wants more specific information, several of the computer labs, including the Belk lab, Little Library, Chambers 3130, the Union, and down-the-hill sophomore apartments offer detailed maps of which particular computers are in use. By clicking one of the links under maps, he or she can open up a map of all computers in the laboratory. Blue computers are in use, black computers are available, and red computers are offline. A computer with a yellow triangle icon means that the computer is reporting problems. The map also shows which operating system the computers use. Some computers, such as those in Belk lab, can be used in either Windows or Macintosh, and the OpenSeats map will show which operating system a dual-boot computer is currently using.

Students who desire to work at quieter times of the day can click on the “Usage History” link to view a graph of computer use as a function of time in a period measured by days, weeks, or months. For those students interested in using computers when no one else is around, 6:00 a.m. is the time in which the least Belk lab computers are occupied. OpenSeats can also be accessed on an iPhone or any smartphone with internet access. Soon, a digital screen in Belk Lab will

See ITS, page 4