THE DAVIDSONIAN

High Point Steals Victory in Closing Minutes

ZACH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

On Saturday, Davidson Men’s soccer delivered a stellar performance against High Point University at Alumni Stadium. After a rough road trip against Maryland and Georgetown, Davidson played its first home game in over a week. Despite trailing for the majority of the second half, visiting High Point scored two goals late in the game to top the ’Cats 3-2. This heartbreaking loss dropped the Wildcats' record to 1-4 on the season.

The first half featured very even play as Davidson came out with amazing defensive pressure and offensive cohesiveness, but High Point struck first. The Panthers had the lone score of the first 45 minutes and went into the half with a 1-0 lead. Davidson was outshot 12-11 in the contest, but outshot High Point 8-7 in the second half when the offense was much more productive.

The offensive push began when Alex Caskey ’11 collected a ball from in front of the goal and fired it into the bottom right corner of the net to tie the score at 1-1 in the 61st minute. The goal was Caskey’s first of the year for Davidson. “We played our best soccer for long stretches of the second half,” said coach Matt Spear. “Alex Caskey was particularly effective.”

Four minutes later, Caskey then sent a cross into the box to Clinton Smith ’10 who dived to head it in and put Davidson up 2-1. The goal would be registered as Smith’s first of the season as well and Caskey registered the assist. For the rest of the second half, excluding the last five minutes, Davidson and High Point broke each other’s offensive rallies continuously, showcasing great defense and tenacity.

With less than four minutes remaining, High Point capitalized on a loose ball and scored from 12 yards out to knot the game up at 2-2. Only a minute later, in the 87th minute, High Point scored on a header received from a throw-in to lift them over Davidson 3-2. “We played solid soccer for 80 minutes, but that doesn’t win you games,” said defender Josh Zipin ’11. “You have to stay focused for all 90 minutes.”

The coaches and players all seemed to have the same attitude about the heartbreaking loss. Davidson played a great game mostly, but in the final moments just could not hold on to the victory. “We made too many silly fouls,” said goalkeeper Matt McElroy ’11, “and we didn’t play with enough urgency on defense.”

Last night, the ’Cats traveled to nationally-ranked Duke and gave the Blue Devils all they could handle before falling 2-0. Yannick Pilgrim ’11 led the Wildcats’ offense with three shots on goal. Robbie Goldsberry ’10 turned in another solid performance in goal with eight saves. Davidson will play in the Charlotte Tournament where they will face UAB and Winthrop over the weekend.

INFORMATIONAL MEETING
SEPTEMBER 18, 2008
4 PM
CHAMBERS 1015

Explore one of Europe's best kept secrets — Stockholm
info@swedishprogram.org
(315) 737-0123
Stockholm University | www.swedishprogram.org

SPORTS Pulse

Clinton Smith gave the ’Cats a 2-1 lead with a goal in the 67th minute, but High Point scored twice in the final three minutes of the game.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

game to take the win. 

Failure, from page 10

freely to set up All-Star caliber rosters. This yielded incredible success in the regular season and famous postseason collapses. Perhaps mesmerized by the success of small-market teams like the Florida Marlins and the Colorado Rockies, the Yankees made a conscious effort to develop their own prospects. New York showed a lack of judgment in their total commitment to this strategy during this off-season. After last season, the Yankees had the opportunity to land the league’s best pitcher, former Twins ace Johan Santana. They would have been forced to send the Twins a package that included one of their best pitching prospects, Phil Hughes, and talented young outfielder Melky Cabrera. While both are likely to be very good players, that seems a small price to pay for a staff ace in the prime of his career. The Yankees put this season’s hope in the hands of its powerful batting order and young pitching, both of which have come up woefully short. I think it is safe to say that New York will miss the playoffs this season for the first time since 1996. Youngsters Hughes and Ian Kennedy have been tremendous disappointments, while Santana has the crosstown Mets (who were willing to give up prospects) on the verge of the playoffs. Santana would have given the Yankees a true ace to push them back into contention. Without him, they have a team that can hit, but not enough to make up for shoddy starting pitching. 

The youth movement has not been the only thorn in the Yankees’ side. Despite all of their stars, the line-up does not fit together cohesively. The team does not possess the requisite table-setters and contact hitters to go with their power presence. While no baseball fan would doubt the intangibles of Derek Jeter, Andy Pettitte, or Jorge Posada, the Yankees have a controversial clubhouse presence in Alex Rodriguez. Probably the top talent in the game, Rodriguez himself makes more money per season than the entire Tampa Bay roster combined. Briefly consider that. Rodriguez has never won a World Series ring, has a long history of poor postseason performances, and quickly alienated himself from the Yankee veterans, all while making more money playing for a fourth place team than the entire roster of the team leading his division. Teams have a history of improving after Rodriguez leaves. Seattle almost set the record for wins in a season after A-Rod left the Pacific Northwest. And the Texas Rangers have actually shown signs of life since Rodriguez’s departure. At some point, we’ve got to ask whether or not the negatives outweigh the positives. In the case of the Yankees, who have enough talent to be in contention without A-Rod, it seems to me that they would be better off parting ways. History does not lie; teams simply have not performed as well with Rodriguez. 

The Yankees have set a shining example of how to turn an ideal situation into a failure. They have overpaid old players, have created a team that does not fit together, and have shown poor judgment regarding their younger players. New York will win again soon, but this season must be regarded as a failure of epic proportions.

---

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2008