2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Kara JONES
Staff Writer

Known as “The Math Guy” on his NPR segment, Keith Devlin made his Davidson debut last Thursday to a packed audience in the 900 Room for this year’s Bernard Society lecture. As well as hosting the NPR segment, Devlin teaches at Stanford University as Consulting Professor of Mathematics. He led the night’s lecture in an exposition entitled “When Mathematics Changed the World,” and piqued audience interest by immediately changing the last word of the title from “World” to “Us.”

Clad all in black, Devlin presented three of the most revolutionary developments of mathematical society. Throughout history, mathematics has changed the world we live in, and even in some instances, what it is to be human. The crux of his discussion revolved around the future, a concept that Devlin said we take advantage of in present society. “The future is not a completely closed book; we do all kinds of things that have risks attached to them,” Devlin said. Our grasp of numbers, and more recent understanding of probability, makes the future somewhat tangible, as well as something on which we now constantly rely.

It started with the invention of numbers and arithmetic, the first revolution. “Everyone’s day revolves around the numbers. We constantly think about our lives in things having numbers attached,” Devlin said, before giving their history. Abstract numbers took shape in Sumeria around 5000 BC by way of banking, to symbolize actual items. Galileo began the second revolution through his empirical examination of the natural world. In his experiments with time, velocity, and acceleration, he was the first to apply numbers to physical quantities. His kinematic equations led to new breakthroughs in science and new ways of thinking about numbers. Now we find it nearly impossible to disassociate numbers with the world around us.

The third revolution began with a letter between Blaise Pascal and Pierre de Fermat on Monday, Aug. 24, 1654. They had exchanged letters throughout the summer, working out the following problem: “Suppose two people are gambling and playing the best of five games. They have to stop the game with one winning two to one, how should the pot be divided to reflect the game?” Devlin played a brief video that worked out Fermat’s answer, that the winner should get ¾ of the pot because he would have three out of four possible outcomes to win. In the Aug. 24 letter, Pascal argued this answer, not being able to grasp the concept. Why did he find this seemingly simple problem so difficult? “What Fermat did was reason into the future that hadn’t happened,” Devlin said. We understand probability, but in that day, people did not understand the concept of probability.

Ada Jenkins
Katie Loverr
Staff Writer

The Ada Jenkins Center is currently in the process of transitioning to a new executive director, Georgia Krueger. Krueger replaces former executive director Jay Laurens. The Ada Jenkins Center is a regional non-profit community service organization that provides community support through a variety of services and programs. Its benefits range from medical and dental services, youth education programs, services for families in crisis, and programs to encourage economic independence. The Ada Jenkins Mission Statement is “to improve the quality of life for the residents of our communities through the integrated delivery of health, education, and human services.”

Laurens’ last day was Friday, Oct. 3. Laurens has taken a job in grant writing and development for the Center for the Environment at Catawba College in Salisbury, NC in order to be closer to his home in Rowan County and spend more time with his family. Krueger spent 20 years as director of the Lake Norman Family YMCA and is well-known in the north Mecklenburg region. She will act as an interim director through Dec. 31st while board member Timi Griffin leads the search for a permanent replacement.

In between her positions at the YMCA and the Ada Jenkins Center, Krueger took some time off to travel the United States before returning to start a consulting practice in leadership development and organizational behavior. Her experience will help the Ada Jenkins Center continue to flourish as a community center and a home base for a variety of services.of service programs. The Ada Jenkins Center is located in a former school on Gamble Street and is home to the Loaves and Fishes food pantry, the senior nutrition center, free dental and medical clinics, a parish nurse, Head Start, The Salvation Army Boys and Girls Club of Davidson, Crisis Assistance Ministries, Latino Services, and the LearnWorks after-school program. “Krueger looks forward to helping the Ada Jenkins Center continue to thrive in her position as interim executive director.” The center also offers computer training and job and career counseling, as well as Spanish classes. Many Davidson students are referred to the Ada Jenkins Center to fulfill their work-study requirements, serving as tutors, translators, and administrative assistants. The Ada Jenkins Center has been in existence since Nov. 8, 1998, and today houses 17 programs and has a 19-member Board of Directors. Krueger will contribute to the dynamic and enthusiastic group of volunteers that maintains the mission and focus of the Ada Jenkins Center. Her role as executive director involves being responsible for everything from budgetary concerns to the day-to-day management of the center. The position demands a person with a fine balance of patience and persistence. As a result of program enhancements and improved service efficiency, the Ada Jenkins Center has increased its services to neighboring areas in need by 65 percent. As a result of funding from churches, United Way, grants, and private donations, the center is able to aid an ever-increasing number of local residents. Krueger looks forward to helping the Ada Jenkins Center continue to thrive in her position as interim executive director.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2008

At OE ie rom page subject umbrellas. These groups, in order to include students and faculty, are part of Davidson’s identity and character. When asked if students should be involved, Levine gave an emphatic: “Absolutely!” Elementary and middle school children are also being consulted in order to form a complete picture of the citizens. Levine indicated that a requirement for being on these study groups is the ability to make a commitment. The application for membership on a study group, available at www.plandavidson.org, asks, “Are you able to commit to 7-9 meetings, meeting bi-monthly or monthly between now and next year?” If someone cannot make that commitment, however, the town would still like them to be involved. According to Levine, they can attend the particular sub-group meetings that interest them. For example, someone passionate about environmental issues could be in the environmental responsibility group. The application does have a section asking for the “central point online” where individuals can get updates about the Comprehensive Plan, examples of comprehensive plans in other towns, and information about the planning process. Wessner acknowledged that the effort to broaden the dialogue will yield a constructive document that town leaders can use well into the future. “We don’t want to create a huge stack of paper that sits unused somewhere.” The development of this plan into the future will be an “organic” process, Wessner indicated. There will be periodic checks to reevaluate the populace’s values.

Seize the opportunity to see the world from a unique perspective. If you are curious and adventurous, then pack your bags and say goodbye to the status quo. Study abroad to earn college credit, experience a different culture, learn a foreign language, discover who you are, and much more. USAC, your gateway to the world.