THE DAVIDSONIAN

FLY promotes healthy body image, self-esteem
By ALISSA CURRAN
News Editor

The whirlwind of homework, meetings, and practices that comprise the days of many Davidson students makes it easy to let
mental health fall by the wayside. However, students will have no excuse to not “take five” for themselves this week,
thanks to several opportunities offered by For Loving Yourself’s (FLY) “Listen to Your Body” week.

FLY, a subcommittee of Changing Minds, is committed to addressing eating disorders on campus. It does this by raising awareness
of the issue at Davidson while promoting positive self-esteem and body image. FLY came to the College this year through
Alanna Ford ’11, who began working on the project within her first weeks at Davidson. The organization is similar to
a project Ford had worked on in high school called LULA (Love Ur Life Always), which has been implemented at
20 metro-Atlanta high schools since she started it. This is due in part to the handbook that Ford helped create
for LULA, in order to make it replicable at other schools. The program is an outreach branch of the non-profit
organization EDEN (Eating Disorder Information Network).

Ford researched the prevalence of eating disorders at Davidson during her application process and asked if there was a program
similar to her own at Davidson. “I knew I was going to do this [FLY] upon arriving at Davidson,” Ford
said. “I was already familiar with the issues, and I asked about it during my interviews and information sessions here.
The people I spoke with told me what a problem it is [at Davidson].”

This week’s activities sponsored by FLY have already included a discussion on Monday led by Annmarie Carter, Davidson’s new therapist
who specializes in eating disorders. The discussion was titled, “Fed by Hunger,” and discussed how students can feed themselves intellectually
and creatively to satisfy their personal “hungers.” Wednesday’s activity is a “De-stress Fest,” which is co-sponsored by the Union Board
and Davidson Women’s Committee. The event will be held in the Union atrium and will include yoga sessions, massages, food,
tea, tie-dye, and a student-made documentary screening. On Thursday, there will be a meditation session.

“Listen to Your Body” week precedes National Eating Disorder Week and will be one of many events organized by FLY
this semester. “When you’re living in close proximity with people, you see the problem much more closely than in high
school,” Ford said. Ford also wanted to stress that the group is beneficial for both male and female students. “People
might think that FLY is a therapy session during which girls just cry, and it’s not. It’s really people coming
together to create awareness,” Ford said.

To become involved with FLY, please contact Alanna Ford (alford@davidson.edu).

---

LINK YOURSELF IN!

This summer, link yourself into Georgetown’s extraordinary academic community, the Washington, D.C., power structure, and shopping areas, parks, monuments, nightlife,
and culture that will take you all summer to explore. Including American art, math, science, business, public policy, languages, international
studies, theology, gender studies, and more.

Fundamentals of Business: Leadership in a Global Economy
Non-business majors can gain an understanding of key concepts in finance, marketing, management, accounting, communications, strategic planning, organizational behavior, information
systems, and business law.

Take an advanced look at the legislative process through coursework and get experience through an internship in government or at
a nonprofit organization.

ENROLL TODAY
HTTP://SUMMERSCHOOL.GEORGETOWN.EDU
202.687.8200

---

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2008

EAC ‘Green Week’ culminates with ball
By KELLY BEGGS
Staff Writer

The Environmental ActionCoalition’s second annual “Green Week” has hit campus. Throughout the week, there will be activities, speakers, and events
with the common goal of raising environmental awareness throughout the Davidson community. From Monday through Friday, the EAC is promoting
the week by distributing green ribbons on the bottom floor of the Union. On Tuesday, the campus was asked to
wear green as a united gesture of environmental concern, and Wednesday the EAC will collaborate with the Union Board Coffeehouse
Committee to present “Paint It, Plant It, Pick It” in the 900 Room from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. This new
event will offer students the opportunity to paint a terra cotta pot, plant an herb, and take it home.

On Thursday, the EAC will introduce another event new to “Green Week.” From 4:30-5:30 p.m., a panel of local farmers
will be in the 900 Room to speak about their efforts to promote the environmentally sustainable consumption of local food.
Eating local food helps the environment by substantially reducing long-distance transport, a leading consumer of fossil fuels. The environmental damage
caused by transporting foods can even discredit the value of organic foods, as sometimes the pollution caused by transport outweighs
the other environmental benefits of eating organic. The EAC hopes that people will support the cause by purchasing baked goods
at their week-long sale in the Union. Funds raised from the bake sale will assist the EAC in raising funds
to bring speaker Alan Weisman to campus. Weisman wrote the critically-acclaimed book, “The World Without Us,” which has spent 25
weeks on The New York Times’ Bestseller List. Weisman explores the innovative concept of a “post-human earth” in his book,
including information from experts in the fields of science, art, and religion. He examines the earth’s remarkable ability to heal,
while finding that some man-made damage is indeed permanent.

To conclude the week, the EAC will have their signature fundraising event, the Green Ball. The Green Ball is a
contra dance with food, a live band, and a silent art auction. Tickets are on sale for $10 in the
Union. All proceeds from the Ball will go to the Davidson Lands Conservancy, a non-profit organization that seeks to protect
the natural lands and other open spaces of the Davidson area. When asked the EAC’s goals for “Green Week,” Co-President
Josh Carson said, “We just hope to raise even further environmental awareness on this campus, taking advantage of a recent
and notable increase in public interest.” This increase in public interest that Carson refers to is certainly evident in the
Davidson community. Working alongside the EAC to make Davidson “greener” are the Eco-Team, the Eco-op House, and the newly formed
Patterson Court Environmental Impact Committee. President Ross has also shown his deep concern for the environment by forming the Environmental
Sustainability Council and by signing the American College and University Presidents’ Climate Commitment letter. “These issues are more relevant than
ever, and we’ll need continuous effort to bring them to the very forefront of the public consciousness,” Carson said. If
these awareness-raising events, organizations, and leaders succeed, then the “green” of “Green Week” will outlive the end of the week
and expand far into the future by creating a community that truly respects its environment.

The Eco-House Presents: CLOTHING SWAP
Bring in old clothes, drop them off at bins at the Union, Eco-House, and the Summit over the next week.
On Saturday, February 23
Union Atrium
11:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m.
Pay $5 and get all the clothes you want!!!
All proceeds and extra clothes go to Lydia’s Loft in Huntersville.
