THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Alex Hoyt
Yowl Editor

There is something both inspirational and horribly incongruous about “Juno” being nominated for Best Picture alongside such raw titans as “No Country For Old Men” and “There Will Be Blood.” “Juno” certainly infuses this year’s Academy Awards with underdog freshness, but doesn’t it also seem cinematic sacrilege to have this precocious, charmingly frank, forgivably overwritten directorial debut posing next to such bedrocks of authenticity? It’s like hanging your caricatured, juvenile doodles next to a Winslow Homer and a Frederic Remington. Talent-laden yet premature, “Juno” is a jarring candidate for the canon, as awkward and unwanted amidst the Oscar front-runners as a high school pregnancy in suburbia.

I can’t deny that I loved “Juno” after seeing it. For the irony-sedated teen comedy genre, it belongs up there with Wes Anderson’s “Rushmore” and Michael Lehmann’s “Heathers.” And much like Winona Ryder and Christian Slater’s whimsical, maybe-too-trenchant riff on teen suicide in “Heathers,” “Juno” is sure to appall scores of Planned Parenthood volunteers with its farcical, breezy take on a very unplanned parenthood. Aside from the slight quandary of trivializing teen pregnancy, however, “Juno” glistens as an original, surprisingly moving story. The droll, kinky Ellen Page, jaded yet somehow naive, perfectly out of place in the bland halls of Anywhere High, Levittown, USA, gives a phenomenal performance. Michael Cera, the endearingly circumspect, short- 

ARTS & LIVING
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2008

7

Films like White Elephants: “Juno” at the Oscars

Ellen Page and Michael Cera as best friends Juno and Paulie in “Juno”

shorted quasi-boyfriend, improves on his very good role in “Superbad,” nailing his awkward lines to such an extent that I fear that he, like Owen Wilson in every movie he’s ever made, is merely playing his own very likable self. Much of the film’s humor, like that of “The Office,” works on the brilliant, foolproof, though potentially tedious principle that very awkward lines delivered with blank faces are very in. After all, it’s easy to be awkward. While it works most of the time—Cera’s suggestion that “We should just make out instead. La la la,” is gratingly perfect—this blank irony eventually infects the cast with the same listless, tableau quality that made “Napoleon Dynamite” so irreplaceable a viewing experience. Some vintage hipster critics have found the film a name-dropping, bohemian imposter, like an Upper East Side brat slumming in the consignment shops of Greenwich Village for two hours and pronouncing himself “alternative.” One critic went as far as to castigate the film as “a vintage lunch box with nothing in it.” Now, I’m not that nostalgic about my vintage lunch boxes, but there the film does lapse into long pontifications about grunge rock, Iggy and the Stooges, and Romero-era slashers merely to let us know that this is an indie movie for people who are too smart for the mainstream. At $100 million and counting, it also happens to be the highest grossing of the Best Picture nominees by a solid $45 million. I wasn’t a big part of the early nineties grunge scene, nor are campy zombie flicks close to my heart, so that sort of posturing didn’t bother me so much. That said, if you do spend your rainy Sundays listening to

EAC hosts eco-conscious Green Ball

By Caroline Woop
Arts and Living Editor

On Friday, Feb. 22, the Environmental Action Coalition, in partnership with Contra Dance Carolina, will be hosting the Annual Davidson Green Ball, a fundraiser benefiting the Davidson Lands Conservancy. The event, which will take place in the Lilly Family Gallery, will include eclectic live music provided by Land of Sky, a celebrated band including some of the nation’s most sought-after contra musicians. The evening will feature contra dance, a casual, friendly, inclusive dance form, in addition to swing and waltz.

The Davidson Lands Conservancy is a local non-profit with the mission to “provide the citizens of Davidson and surrounding areas alternatives to urban living by protecting natural lands and other open spaces for ecological and aesthetic purposes.” The organization is dedicated to protecting

Repair broken items, Print on both sides of paper.

BE A RECYCLEMANIAC!

Know the 3 R's: REDUCE - REUSE - RECYCLE

Fast Fact: In 2005-2006, North Carolina produced 1.3 tons or 2,720 pounds of waste per person. That is an alarming 27% increase since 1991-1992!

Strategies for REDUCING your waste: mend clothes, rather than buying new ones. Borrow or rent items instead of purchasing. Use a canvas bag for shopping. Use sponges and cloth napkins. Save your printed drafts, and use the back side for notes. Get off junk mail lists: companies send 300pieces per year for every person in the WLS.! Couples enjoying a lively Contra dance like Friday’s EAC Green Ball, wildlife and open spaces, preserving water and air quality, encouraging environmentally friendly modes of transportation, and increasing awareness of environmental issues. More information may be found at www.davidson-lands.org. Contra Dance Carolina stresses that a Contra Ball does not require that you bring a partner or know how to dance. There is no need to dress up, and anything from jeans and t-shirts to fancy dresses are welcome. Whatever you choose, celebrating the cause by wearing green is encouraged. Free beginner lessons will be provided at 7:30 p.m. Lessons will be taught by Diane Silver, one of the nation’s finest contra dance “masters” and ecology instructor by day. She will also be calling the dances during the ball. Novice dancers will be prepared to join in when the Ball starts at 8 p.m. The caller and band were selected not only for their skill at creating a magical evening of dance but also for their dedication to environmental stewardship. Admission to the ball is $12.00 with free refreshments. Tickets may be purchased in advance or at the door. The evening will also include a student art auction, with all proceeds benefiting the Davidson Lands Conservancy. Pieces in any medium, including painting, drawing, sculpture, and photography, will be graciously accepted this week, and the auctioneer requests that pieces be framed or matted when appropriate. They may be delivered to Jamieson 201 or Watts 409 before 5:00 p.m. Friday, and donors will receive free tickets to the ball. Contact Kealy Devoy at kedevoy@davidson.edu with questions.

Lou Reed at Lunchbox Records or your nights with the “Living Dead,” you might be taken aback at the lack of authenticity. Juno’s strangest credit belongs to Diablo Cody, the film’s screenwriter, that adorable stripper-turned-blogger who currently makes her bones as the back-page columnist at “Entertainment Weekly.” Despite an opening twenty minutes so unbearably arch that I began to hope that Juno would just abort the damn thing, I have to say that Diablo’s script picks up as we enter the third trimester. For someone who spent her early years as a peepshow attraction, Diablo’s done well for herself. Wouldn’t it be great if this smart-alecky script from some disreputable debauched web-mistress beat out adaptations of novels by Cormac McCarthy and Ian McEwan for best screenplay? UNFORTUNATELY, THAT WON’T HAPPEN. “JUNO,” THOUGH BRIMMING WITH TALENT, IS TOO CLEVER FOR THE ACADEMY (AND SOMETIMES FOR ITS OWN GOOD), AND WILL SURELY BE SENT TO BED EARLY AT THE OSCARS. Some critics have argued that the blank, detached irony so effectively employed by “Juno” is killing the American “smart film,” but as long as it levels the playing field between strippers and Booker Prize winners, it’s a brand of irony I’m willing to endure.

By Audrey, Staff Writer

Dear Sophomore,

Even on a small campus like Davidson, it can be hard to get to know someone unless you have a class with them or engage in the same extracurricular activities. One of the best ways to get to know someone in one of your classes is to arrange a study group or talk to them about class. Davidson’s friendly campus can inspire a lot of spontaneous conversations, but you have to have the confidence. I am glad you are interested in getting to know someone. An in-person interaction is much more valuable. Finding out what groups on campus your acquaintance is involved in can help you find ways to hang out and be in an interactive environment together. All groups on campus seem to look for more support, and this is a very harmless way to get to know someone, along with another large social group. Being in an intimate environment always allows you to get to know someone better. If you know your acquaintance’s major, there are plenty of activities where you might run into him or her. If you are totally not interested in a certain lecture or gallery opening, don’t force yourself to go, but it still might be a way to impress the person that you are interested in the same things. The Crier is a great source of all the activities going on around campus. There is a certain combination of (1) your valid interest in a topic and (2) being curious about a topic because your acquaintance is attracted to it. Beginning relationships can never be forced, but knowing what your acquaintance is interested in always helps speed up the process. Good luck with your romantic adventures! Email Audrey at AskAudrey33@gmail.com.