THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2008 11 SPORTS

Wildcat Pulse, Offense comes alive in 4-1 win

ZACH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson Men’s Soccer had its last non-conference game of the season against Presbyterian College on Friday at Alumni Stadium. Due to a purely offensive first half, Davidson finished off the game strong with a 4-1 win. On Sunday, Davidson faced off against Appalachian State in Boone, N.C. Unfortunately, Davidson dropped the conference game 2-1.

During the first half on Friday, Davidson exploded offensively to score four goals in the first forty-five minutes. To kick things off, Alex Caskey ’11 scored a goal off a corner kick to tally his third of the season. Keeping the ball on the opposition’s side of the field for most of the game, Davidson’s Yannick Pilgrim ’11 scored off a one-on-one matchup with the keeper when he received a punt from Chip Sanders ’12 and fired a low shot to the right side of the net to give Davidson a 2-0 lead.

Throughout the game, the passing and cutting exhibited by Davidson were superb, opening up many lanes and creating many scoring opportunities. Caskey brought a ball to the middle of the box and passed it to a wide-open Josh Zipin ’11 on the right-hand side, allowing Zipin to register his first career goal and giving Caskey his third assist and ninth point on the season. Showcasing stellar teamwork, Davidson led a three-man breakaway at the 41:15 mark; Reiter ’10 in the box, who scored from 15 yards out to put Davidson up, 4-0.

Davidson not only showed great offensive talent but also shut down Presbyterian in the first half and only allowed one goal the whole game. Sanders, in his first start of his career, registered five saves and tallied an assist on his punt to Pilgrim. Davidson finished off the Blue Hose 4-1.

Sunday, however, was a different story for Davidson. In the first half, Davidson led many great offensive drives and had two very close shots that could have put them on the board. At the 27:28 mark, Greg McNamara’s ’12 shot from 15 yards nearly went in the net as the Appalachian State keeper tipped it over the crossbars. About a minute later, Reiter fired a shot from inside the penalty box and was barely stopped by a diving block.

The first half remained scoreless but Davidson went into halftime outshooting Appalachian State by a margin of five. In the 51st minute after back and forth drives from both teams, Appalachian State scored a header off a corner kick to go up 1-0 on Davidson. Then, Appalachian State’s Arie Muniz drove the ball deep and sent it to the middle of Davidson’s goal box where a teammate collected the ball and scored in the bottom right corner of the goal. The pressure was on for Davidson as they trailed 2-0. After Reiter’s third chance at a goal, he decided to take a fourth when Caskey sent a low pass to Clinton.Smith ’10, who forwarded it to Reiter. Reiter sent a low shot that was not enough, and Davidson fell 2-1. “The win over Presbyterian felt good, but we need to do that in conference games,” said Peter Shelton ’11. “Also, I feel that we were a better team than Appalachian State, but we just haven’t been scoring enough and are too loose on defense.” Davidson has two games left that will decide their seeding in the SoCon tournament. On Wednesday, Davidson travels to Spartanburg, S.C. to face off against the Wofford Terriers at 7 p.m.

Unfortunately, this weekend ended in disappointment for the ’Cats. Davidson finished 11th out of 12 teams over three rounds of competition at the Nicklaus Marsh-Ocean courses in Wilmington, N.C. They finished with a three-round total of 930, which was 42 shots behind the winning Hawkeyes from the University of Iowa. The Wildcats averaged 310 shots per round, about 11 shots more than their average per round through the first three tournaments. Davidson was led by Michael Saari ’09 (26th / 231), who won his first collegiate tournament two weeks ago in the Davidson College Invitational. Finishing behind Saari were Christopher Rollins ’11 (32nd / 233), David Fowler ’11 (t37th / 236), Jackson Taylor ’12 (37th / 236), and Adam Lewicki ’11 (49th / 243). The individual winner of the tournament was Rafael Campos of Virginia Commonwealth University. Campos fired a three-day total of 1-over 217. The Wildcats will look to bounce back when they begin their spring season on Feb. 23 at the Wexford Plantation Intercollegiate in Hilton Head, S.C.

Davidson College Law School Fair
Thursday, November 6th
Noon — 4:00 PM
Union Atrium

Representatives from the following schools will be there:
Albany
Ohio State University
American University
Roger Williams University
Boston University
Regent University
Brooklyn
Saint Louis University
California Western
Samford University
Campbell University
Southern Methodist
Catholic University
St. John’s University
Chapman University
Stetson University
Charleston
Temple University
Charlotte Law School
Tulane University
Cleveland-Marshall
University of Alabama
Columbia University
University of Florida
Cornell University
University of Georgia
Duke University
University of Kentucky
Elon University
University of Maryland
Emory University
University of Miami
Florida State University
University of Michigan
Fordham Law School
University of Mississippi
George Mason University
Georgia State University
Golden Gate University
Hofstra University
Loyola - Chicago
Loyola - Los Angeles
Loyola - New Orleans
Mercer University
New York Law School
Northwestern University
Ohio Northern University
University of North Carolina
University of Richmond
University of South Carolina
University of Texas
University of the Pacific
Vanderbilt University
Vermont
Wake Forest University
Washington University
William & Mary
Yeshiva University

DavidsonSecure, the wireless network of choice for Davidson College, is now available. For stronger encryption, simpler login, and better security, use DavidsonSecure. For full setup instructions, visit www.davidson.edu/wireless.