6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2008

Germany, from page 5

popular 1-liter steins for souvenirs and consumption at the venue.

In the spirit of the festival, each tent has its own personality. For example, Schottenhamel is considered to be the
most important tent. It is here that the mayor of Bavaria, currently Christian Ude, taps the first keg of the
festival, while local Bavarians believe that the Augustiner-Festhalle tent offers the best beer and spirits. And famous not only for
its brew, the Hacker-Festzelt tent, also known as the “Himmel der Bayern” (Heaven of Bavaria), features a rock band instead
of the traditional brass band.

Currently, the Munich Oktoberfest and

Bertoldi, from page 5

her oldest brother. This prediction ultimately came true. Since then, Bertoldi has used her abilities to bring deceased family members
and friends together with those of the living.

For the past decade, Bertoldi has used her abilities to help the public. She challenged skeptics and awed believers with
her acclaimed book, “Do Dead People Watch You Shower?”

This book is not divided into chapters; rather, it is written in a question-and-answer format. Because she writes with such
dry wit and humor, each Q&A section becomes an enjoyable read. For example, Bertoldi lightheartedly talks about how the dead
observe us as we go about our everyday lives:

“[The dead] are not judging. It’s not like they’re going, ‘Whoa! Has she got a big butt!’ or ‘If I
was him, I’da shaved that!’ The dead are not ‘Peeping Toms’ — they don’t get any special thrill out of
‘watching.’”

“Dead People” is comprised of the most frequent questions the author receives from her clients. In fact, the title of
this book is

the Oktoberfest in Cincinnati, Ohio, are vying for the number one spot for the largest global Oktoberfest. Close to 700,000
people cram the streets of “Zinzinnati,” dancing to music from one of the seven stages, consuming vast quantities of food
and beer.

For two weeks, Theresa’s once-pastoral meadow turns into a mass party. Over a dozen beer tents and lederhosen-sporting oomph-bands pop
up as 30 percent of the country’s beer consumption takes place.

There’s little not to love about Oktoberfest. So whether you are in Munich, Zinzinnati, Tokyo or your town’s local German
“haus,” have some Deutsch-style fun, and maybe buy a round for Ludwig, the guy who started it all.

actually one of the most commonly asked questions.

In addition, Bertoldi fruitfully explores the nature of God, death and human existence.

At one point she writes, “What I’ve heard from the souls on the Other Side is that when we die
we leave either through our feet or the top of the head. We get a fast-forward review of our lives
and see the whole domino effect of all of our actions. We feel everything we made someone else feel—the joy,
the hurt.”

Up until this point, I had been quite skeptical about the typical paranormal brouhaha we see over and again in
books or on television.

However, Bertoldi has convinced me that the dead are actually among us to help. Her answers are logical and unbiased,
and each response contains a beautiful mélange of ideas from different religions.

I thoroughly recommend this book to all who are interested in the paranormal, and guarantee that their perspectives on the
dead will change. And, when it’s shower time, let’s take some comfort in knowing we’re being watched.

Great to Be A

Willeat Everyday at Monkee’s!

15% Student Discount honored daily with a valid student ID!

And, stock up on your summer essentials with our 50%-75% off Summer Sale!

Only at Monkee’s of Lake Norman - located at the new Harris Teeter shopping Center!

Street, Suite 130 | Lake Norman, NC 28036 (704) 896-7779

Bublé, from page 5

“Everything,” and got on their feet for “Save the Last Dance for Me.”

Concert-goers also got a sneak peek at some of the songs on Bublé’s upcoming album, which features an interesting collaboration
with Naturally 7.

Technically, Bublé’s performance was impeccable from beginning to end. An impressive entrance, including spiraling tornado-shaped lighting effects featuring Bublé’s initials
set the stage, followed by dramatic lighting tailored to fit each song.

For instance, flame effects accompanied Bublé’s rendition of “Fever,” and subtle, shadowy lighting augmented the more intimate vocals of “Song
for You.”

The sound quality, like the lighting, was truly superb — neither deafening nor barely audible.

Bublé surprised the audience while singing “Home.” During the tender performance that literally brought many fans to tears, the background
screen displayed images from across North Carolina. Bublé even chose to personalize the lyrics to include references to Raleigh.

Another refreshing aspect of Bublé’s concert was the amount of attention bestowed on the band. Instead of focusing solely on
the lead singer, the concert took turns featuring exclusive band numbers. Each member was introduced, a few even playing solos.

The concert’s staging added another dimension to the event. Bublé utilized the entire stage, including the band’s slanted platform. Sashaying
exuberantly up to the top, and sliding down to the bottom, Bublé’s movement captured the lighthearted nature of the event.

Overall, Bublé’s dance moves, vocals and charming charisma left audience members humming “How Sweet It Is,” a concert definitely worth
the three-hour drive.

neighborhood hosts an extensive array of performance venues, international cuisine

Check out the Neighborhood Theater for plays, the Hart Witzen Gallery for visual performances or The Evening Muse listening premises,
providing an opportunity to get out and see all that the area has to offer.
