10 The Davidsonian @ ALENDA LUX LIBERTAS @

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl

Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Brian Moran

News Editors
Kate Kelly & Nina Mace

Perspectives Editors
Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris

Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Errington & Jennifer Gambrell

Yow! Editors
Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian

Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis

Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Kelsey Lilley

Business, Advertising and Circulation Managers
Jordan Wall, Laura Fontaine & Lauren Wright

Online Editor
Greg Newman

Content Manager
Kelly Beggs

Section Copy Editors
Julia Edwards & Nami Patel

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room
411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the
views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright
is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Mario SILVA
Guest Writer

Davidson College’s statement of purpose, originally penned on September 24, 1964, begins with an examination of the college’s continuing relationship
with the Presbyterian Church. It asserts that the college will continue its “vital relationship” to that sect. It also acknowledges,
however, an “openness to and respect for the world’s various religious traditions.” There is an inherent contradiction in this statement,
one that continues to affect the nature of religious discourse on campus. The contradiction is that it does not allow
the fostering of “openness” and “respect” for atheism.

In order to rectify Davidson’s lapse of support for atheism, I suggest the school include it as a viable alternative
to theism in its official statement of purpose and in literature describing religious life on campus. I contend that atheism
is virtually absent from official consideration at Davidson College and that its absence is a fundamental flaw in Davidson’s religious
discourse. The consequences of atheism’s absence are twofold: it undermines Davidson’s reputation as a rigorous academic institution, while explicitly discriminating
against atheist students. This creates an environment in which real discussion on religious issues is impossible. In the eyes of
the school, one side of the argument has already won.

Some may say that the issue of the existence of a god cannot be discussed intelligently. They would subsequently argue
that it is a religious issue fundamentally based on faith and cannot be proven or disproven. This may seem like
a foolproof argument, but it is not. The first piece of evidence against this argument is the existence of a
religion department at Davidson. If religious questions were immune from logic, an academic department devoted to them would be illogical
and useless—which the religion department most certainly is not. Furthermore, the existence or non-existence of a god has real and
physical consequences in the real world. If one believes in an interventionist god—and therefore in miracles—one believes that physical laws
are mutable. This has implications for the studies of all physical sciences. Even if one believes in a non-interventionist deity,
the belief in a god is not divorced from scientific study. If a god were present only in the creation
of the universe, that is a claim that would at least influence the work of cosmologists. Therefore, the existence of
a god is not an issue divorced from logical inquiry and must be subject to the same rigorous, logical tests
as any other field of study. This is especially true at a place as committed to the pursuit of truth
as Davidson. One cannot claim to revere truth and foster learning without being absolutely consistent in that pursuit. Davidson cannot
expect its students to support mathematical, scientific and philosophical arguments with facts and logic without expecting the same of them
in the realm of religion. Not doing so undermines the basis of the college as a respectable institution of higher
learning. Davidson then must acknowledge that the existence of a god is undetermined and support atheism as a reasonable position
to hold. To do otherwise—that is, to continue its present position—is antithetical to Davidson’s academic aspirations.

Davidson must also acknowledge atheism as part of its commitment to supporting diversity among students. An atheist student feels like
a minority no less than a black, gay or handicapped student. In its statement of purpose,Davidson claims to “[recognize] the
dignity and worth of every person.” There seems to be an implicit addendum to this commitment: that atheist students’ views
are of less value than Christian, Buddhist, Muslim, or Jewish students. Although the policies of the Religious Life Council acknowledge
the right of students to “reject religious faith” and disallow religious organizations from overt evangelical behavior, this is not the
same as supporting atheist students. The official distinction of theism on campus, together with a general religiosity among the student
body, creates an environment in which atheist students feel ostracized. This situation requires more direct action from the college.

In order to rectify Davidson’s lapse of support for atheism, I suggest the school include it as a viable alternative
to theism in its official statement of purpose and in literature describing religious life on campus. Further, I call on
the student body to acknowledge that all religious questions should be subject to mindful and logical analysis. As scholars at
Davidson College, we must always pursue all knowledge—including religious—with absolute intellectual rigor. In turn, Davidson must support all paths to
that knowledge.

Mario Silva ’09 is a music major from Bloomington, Ill. Contact him at masilva@davidson.edu.

---

Prop 8 win unfortunate loss for equality

ZEKE WEBSTER
Guest Writer

For almost all of us—even some of the most partisan and conservative Republicans—Barack Obama’s victory in last Tuesday’s election was
a historic night of celebration and redemption. Even the happiest of election nights, however, hold some disappointments and setbacks, and
last Tuesday’s was particularly bitter. Proposition 8, a ballot initiative that strips gay couples of the right to marry, was
passed by 52 percent of the vote in California. Unlike other states that have passed anti-gay marriage initiatives, gay marriage
was legal in California until Proposition 8’s passage. Since the state supreme court, with the approval of California’s legislature and
governor, ruled gay marriage bans unconstitutional in May, around 18,000 gay couples have been married in California. Proposition 8 has
brought all of that to an end, and it has put the marriages of those 18,000 in jeopardy. Proposition 8’s
passage means that, even in California, our government will continue to discriminate against gay Americans.

Fortunately, history is on the side of supporters of marriage equality. All arguments against gay marriage are obviously flawed or
explicitly religious. Legalizing gay marriage doesn’t mean that churches will be forced to perform marriages they disagree with, nor will
it force anyone to abandon prejudice against those who identify as gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, or are questioning their sexuality.
It simply means that the government will recognize the validity and value of the families that gay folks have been
building. Who seriously thinks that it undermines the marriages of straight couples for others to have the same right? How
can anyone possibly be harmed by allowing others to live and love as they wish? Straight Americans would, correctly, consider
it unimaginably unjust if the government told them that their attempts to build loving relationships and families were illegitimate and
unnatural. This is why we look back on anti-miscegenation laws with horror and confusion that we could ever have been
so wrong about something so simple. A generation from now, Americans will look back on Proposition 8 and similar laws
in other states the same way.

Every survey of Americans’ attitudes towards gay marriage yields the same basic fact. Although it is unpopular now, younger people
support marriage equality overwhelmingly. Even among conservative evangelical Christians, youth are far less hostile to gay equality than their parents
and grandparents. It is only a matter of time before the old guard leaves the scene and marriage equality becomes
law; in California, it may only take another five or ten years. This is little consolation, of course, for gay
Californians that have seen their rights denied by their community, or for straight Californians that don’t want to be a
part of organized bigotry. Amidst all the other good news of last Tuesday, California provided a painful reminder of the
obstacles standing in the way of full gay equality. But equality is still coming, and if people of good will
do all they can, then the wait will not be too long.

Zeke Webster ’09 is a political science major from Clemmons, N.C. Contact him at zewebster@davidson.edu.
