WRESTLING SEASON OPENER UNIVERSITY EVE
O’ Hair posts his first win of the young season
see SPORTS, page 10

WHEN SOLOISTS AND ORCHESTRA COMBINE
Student concerto winners Horn, Capone and Cockman masterfully perform
see ARTS, page 5

MEDIA’S FUTURE
Fielder focuses Batten Lecture on current media trends and Jim Batten ’57
see NEWS, page 3

Charity Denim Sale, today 3-9 p.m., 900 Room
Calo Flamenco, today 8 p.m., Duke
Matt Bengston on the piano, Fri. 12:30 p.m., Tyler-Tallman
Off Main performance, Fri. 10:30, Outpost
Hamlet, Sat.-Sun 7:30, Barber Theatre

“THE SOUTH’S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2008

RACHEL ANDERSEN
Environmental Intern

Dorms on campus have been competing in the third annual Environmental Action Coalition (EAC) Do it in the Dark competition
during the past two weeks. In first place after the second week of the competition are the Down the Hill
dorms, reducing their energy consumption by 25.4 percent. Richardson, Cannon, Sentelle, Belk and Tomlinson have decreased energy usage as well.
Prizes, including a pizza party, t-shirts and compact fluorescent light bulbs, will go to students living in the dorm that
decreases energy usage the most throughout November. Students living in the winning dorm will also have the opportunity to compete
for an iPod and Klean Kanteen water bottles.

A meter on each dorm collects energy use data in kilowatts per hour. The EAC recorded the use in October
to create baseline data to which November’s numbers can be compared. Dorms will be compared only to their own October
values to ensure fair comparison. These comparisons, measured in percent change, will be documented in a poster in the Union
that will show results from each week in November. The first week data showed that the Sophomore Apartments, Tomlinson and
Cannon decreased energy usage. EAC hopes that the competition will encourage Davidson students to build better energy-use habits. The event
runs throughout November because it takes about a month to form a habit.

Somalia: the new battleground state
MIKE ANDERSON
Staff Writer

Ken Menkhaus, a Davidson political science professor who Time magazine calls the premier U.S. expert on Somalia, discussed the African
nation’s immense problems in the 900 Room of the Alvarez College Union Tuesday night. He went as far to say
“it [the crisis in Somalia] is the worst in the world — worse than Darfur.” He later added, “This could
be one of the biggest policy crises in the first term of the Obama administration.”

One of the country’s most pressing problems is that it has had no central government for 18 years. In addition,
the nation has been in an armed conflict with Ethiopia since 2006. Piracy has become a major problem on the
coast and security threats are ever-present.

Menkhaus gave further context to the nation’s current problems. He said that historically Somalia has been incredibly poor, is semi-arid,
is an Islamic society, is based on a subsistence economy and has tumultuous relations with Ethiopia. He added that Somalia’s
longtime statelessness, since 1991, is not a spontaneous occurrence. From 1969 to 1990, the country suffered under a military dictatorship,
one of the most oppressive ones in Africa, and the groups in the clan-based liberation movement that overthrew the dictatorship
then fought among themselves. This strife led to two years of civil war, ethnic cleansing, warlordism and famine and then
a U.N. intervention called United Nations Operation in Somalia, in which Menkhaus was involved, failed to make significant progress. Now,
there are three distinct regions, one of which hasactually been fairly stable. The northern part of Somalia, called Somaliland, is
not recognized as an independent state, but essentially functions separately from the rest of Somalia. As a stable, democratic, and
economically healthy region of Somalia, it is a beacon of hope for the rest of the country. “They are the
most democratic area in the horn of Africa,” Menkhaus said. However, Menkhaus mentioned that Somaliland’s good fortune might be short-lived
since last week the war in southern Somalia spread up north into Somaliland. The conflict in southern Somalia has intensified
ever since Ethiopia invaded two years ago. The invasion, which was U.S.-backed because of terrorist activity in the country, toppled
the government forming under extreme Islamists. While Menkhaus resisted acknowledging the idea that terrorism is a real threat in Somalia,
he said, “More recent evidence is suggesting that Al-Qaeda is looking at Somalia as a base of operation.” That is
not to say that the U.S. is anti-Somalia. The American government officially backs the Transitional Federal Government, or TFG, but
not the Muslim extremists who were vying for power. The TFG, however, is just the latest internationally recognized authority in
a line of many ineffective governments. Now, the TFG is on the verge of collapse — it cannot agree on
issues internally. Ethiopia is withdrawing, too, and a combination of factors makes the situation the most urgent humanitarian crisis in
the world, according to Menkhaus. Millions are displaced, there has been a massive rise in prices, widespread money counterfeiting has
led to hyperinflation that essentially makes money worthless, and refugees are amounting in overwhelming numbers. While he recognized that Somalia
is in desperate need, Menkhaus said, “This is today the most dangerous place to be a humanitarian worker.” He added
that one-third of humanitarian-worker casualties are in Somalia. Now, many organizations are hesitant to send workers there. While he made
clear that the crisis in Somalia is a dire one, he added that there are “positive energies” present in the
country. The private sector is booming; the nation has some of the best entrepreneurs in the world. Also, the nation
historically has had an extraordinary adaptability at the local level in having had “governance but no government.”

See Somalia, page 3

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 11

...ple to change behavior, the contest will increase awareness about energy issues. These issues are particularly important for Davidson because
energy accounts for about 60 percent of the greenhouse gas emissions from campus.

See Dark, page 2

Commuter rail rumors

ANDREW Evans
Staff Writer

A commuter rail line connecting the town of Davidson to Charlotte as well as the intermediate towns could be operational
as soon as 2012. This rail, according to Kris Krider, Planning Director of the town, “increases the options for mobility.”
Of course, this depends on the plans actually getting off the ground. According to Krider, most of the details for
the commuter rail are worked out except for the funding. Right now, engineers are putting together a 90 percent plan
for the rail. This plan should be done by early December. There have been rumors of a “light rail” coming
to Davidson for the past several years. This is not entirely accurate because a light rail and a commuter rail
are not the same thing. A commuter rail is a diesel locomotive that can travel faster and farther than a
light rail, which is an electrical system intended for making multiple, fast stops. Sara-Lynn Levine says that the three towns
north of Charlotte—namely Huntersville, Cornelius, and Davidson—are all in favor of the rail. The biggest problem is the funding. According
to Krider,

See Rail, page 3
