THE DAVIDSONIAN

Paper waste is a product of its local commitment for the year.

appear on the screens and the student conference room, with a large table that contains four lab computers.

DavidsonSecure, the wireless network of choice for Davidson College, is live for stronger encryption, simpler login, and better security. Use
DavidsonSecure.

For full setup instructions, visit www.davidson.edu/secure.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER, 2008

Halloween invasion: Tigger & the Blues Brothers

This past Thursday ghosts, fairies, Tigger, and even the Blues Brothers made an appearance as children trick-or-treated at Davidson College
dorms.

JEANNIE KINNETT
Staff Writer

Last Thursday, the College hosted the annual trick-or-treating event, welcoming children of faculty and staff, as well as participants in
the Ada Jenkins After School Program. The event was sponsored by the Residence Life Office (RLO) and Bonner Scholars, and
also made possible by the contributions of College students.

Freshmen halls decorated with spooky decorations before opening them from 6 p.m.-8 p.m. for the young trick-or-treaters. The decorations were
part of an annual contest sponsored by RLO. 2nd Watts won first place, followed by 3rd Richardson in second and
1st Richardson in third.

For many hall counselors, the event provided a time of bonding for their halls, as students emerged from studying and
extracurriculars to pass out candy together.

Andy Jones ’10, a hall counselor on Third Belk, participated in the event with his hall. “Everybody was in the
hall passing out candy,” Jones said. “It grew the hall unity as well as made the kids happy.”

“Some of these kids might not otherwise have a Halloween.”
-Kristin Booher, Director of Bonner Scholars

The event was about far more than the decorations though. Throughout the evening, students not only doled out candy to
the young visitors, but also provided them with a myriad of festive activities including cookie decorating and fortune telling.

It is important to recognize that this appreciation of Halloween is often taken for granted; the children who visit campus
for this exciting occasion may otherwise be unable to go trick-or-treating.

Many of the kids arrive through the Ada Jenkins After School Program which is for first through fifth grade students
from around town, and provides tutoring for participants, largely from Davidson College students.

Freshmen Bonner scholars at Davidson participate in this program and are largely involved in coordinating and executing the trick-or-treating event
in accordance with Ada Jenkins, including leading the children through the halls and driving them to campus and back.

According to Kristin Booher, Director of Bonner Scholars, this event is very special for many of the children from the
Ada Jenkins After School Program. “Some of these kids might not otherwise have a Halloween,” Booher said.

Though these students organize the event, it remains the duty (and the pleasure) of their peers to make the night
full of fun and excitement.

This year, many of the freshman halls across campus began covering their lights with orange paper to create an eerie
glow, and hung spider webs, tombstone cutouts, and pumpkins on the walls.

Kids of every age and costume style participated: some dressed as frighteningly as possible, others as their favorite book characters.
Freshman student Mary Hodgkins’ favorite part was seeing the children in their costumes. “One little girl had a huge sheep
suit and a tail that wiggled when she walked; it was really cute,” Hodgkins said.

Many halls ran out of candy early, underestimating the hoards of children that arrived. One hall in particular possessed enthusiasm
that outlasted its candy supply; being the problem-solving Davidson students they are, these boys handed out packaged Pop Tarts, granola
bars, and popcorn from their personal food supplies to prolong the delight of their trick-or-treaters.

In traditional Davidson fashion, this event cultivated relationships on its own campus while simultaneously giving back to its community. An
enjoyable experience for all involved, this happening should definitely remain an eagerly anticipated annual event for the College.
