6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Microwave, from page 5

garlic, minced; 1 onion, chopped; 1 1/2 cups vegetable broth; 1 cup uncooked Arborio rice; 3/4 cup white wine; 1/4
cup grated Parmesan cheese.

Then, follow these four easy steps to make the dish:

1. In a 3-quart, microwave-safe casserole dish combine butter, garlic, and onion. Place dish in microwave and cook on high
for 3 minutes.

2. Place vegetable broth in a microwave-safe dish. Heat in microwave until the broth is hot but not boiling (approximately
2 minutes).

3. Stir the rice and broth into the casserole dish with the onion, butter, and garlic mixture. Cover the dish
tightly and cook on high for 6 minutes.

4. Stir wine into the rice. Cook on high for 10 minutes more. Most of the liquid should boil off.
Stir the cheese into the rice and serve.

Paired with a tablecloth, good friends, and maybe a little Frank Sinatra, I think my foodie desires will be satiated.

Eat up.

Market, from page 5

stroll over to the Beltrami Family’s “Hippie Kitchen.” This family-run enterprise sells homemade organic carrot cakes, brownies, granola, and Makaruni
pasta.

“I was raised on an organic farm in Oregon and all of the recipes you see here have been passed
down through my family,” said vendor Dawn Beltrami.

The Beltramis’ son Schuyler said that he enjoys helping his parents manage their stand each week.

“I’m just the money man,” Schuyler said when asked if he shared his parents’ love for cooking.

Arts & LIVING

lived up to that appellation lately: Lives have been lost and homes leveled, and livelihoods

Despite the fact that the market has only been in existence since May of this year, it is already extending
its influence to other parts of the country.

“The Lavender Garden,” based in China Grove, N.C. and owned by Rita Rodelli, just shipped 26 lavender-scented eye pillows to
the Democratic National Convention in Denver, Colo. These sweet-smelling and relaxing gifts will be placed in “recovery baskets” to be
gifted to those who helped with the Democratic National Convention. “The Lavender Garden” also sells homemade candles, lotions, and potpourri.

Looking for a fun and creative birthday gift or a cute centerpiece for a party? “Sweet Cakes” can help you
out. Brenda Lord creates her custom gourmet cupcakes from scratch using no preservatives and high-quality ingredients such as Belgian chocolate.

“They’re just like your grandma would make,” said Lord.

“Sweet Cakes” creates cupcake bouquets and also delivers from their Huntersville location. Choose from your old stand-by flavors such as
chocolate and vanilla, or opt for more adventurous varieties like lemon and cookies and cream. Now that’s enough to make
any dessert lover’s mouth water.

Co-chair Mary Jane Leach and vendor chair Carol Harris Mayes are two of the driving forces behind the success of
the Davidson Farmer’s Market. They embarked on their project 18 months ago, beginning with mass mailings, emails, and phone calls
to farmers within 75 miles of Davidson.

Their efforts generated a flood of positive response and enthusiasm. Producers partnered with Leach and Mayes with hopes of supporting
the local economy, protecting open green spaces, and educating citizens about healthy food and environmental issues.

The Davidson Farmer’s Market will be open every Saturday until Nov. 1. So if you’re awake on a Saturday morning,
you should definitely pay a visit to the farmer’s market.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2008
