Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Divestment from Sudan a moral duty

by Justin Eusebio

Guest Columnist

In response to the ongoing and relentless genocide occurring in Darfur, human rights activists have, for the past two years,
aimed to persuade American states, cities, universities, and companies to divest or eliminate institutional holdings from companies doing business with
the government of Sudan. In an impressive list that includes the state of North Carolina and peer liberal arts institutions
such as Williams, Bowdoin, and Middlebury, 24 states and more than 60 colleges and universities have committed to disinvest from
Sudan in some fashion.

The movement has continued to gain steam as President Bush approved the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act in December 2007,
making it easier for mutual and pension funds to sell their holdings in targeted companies and providing viable alternatives for
socially responsible investment.

Divestment is not the appropriate response to most of the world’s social injustices due to the potential for undesired collateral
damage. Institutional divestment from Sudan conveys several symbolic messages. For the U.S. government, divestment boldly demonstrates that Americans consider Darfur
an important issue that requires attention from lawmakers. For American universities and colleges, divestment triggers other institutions and organizations to
act. For U.S. citizens and the international community, divestment by major, respected institutions raises the visibility of genocide and sends
a clear message that no American entity, governmental or private, will condone genocide or those who support it.

The current divestment campaign targets only those companies operating in Sudan that provide revenue or arms to the government or
demonstrate insignificant policy or benefit to the victims of the genocide and the underprivileged population. Divestment is not the appropriate
response to most of the world’s social injustices due to the potential for undesired collateral damage. When college students advocated
for divestment from South Africa during apartheid, critics pointed out that many of the companies targeted for divestment employed the
same individuals they aimed to protect. Since the fundamental goal of divestment is to protect the victims in Darfur, it
is imperative to ensure maximum impact on the Sudanese government and minimal harm to innocent Sudanese citizens.

When oil was first

---

Life on the Court. An Epic Poem by Andy Knauss

Chapter Four: Envy

Mert college student X, who drunkenly
Weaves across the throbbing floor
Of AGY’s Friday jubilee -
A Mardi Gras-themed smorgasbord;
Caught within the dank depths
Of heat and heaving ecstasy,
X gropes blindly toward the door
To quit this scene of bloodless gore.

X has muttered a secret anathema
In this frat of high acclaim,
Lusting vainly for a flawless
To press against his wilting frame;
As the beer exhausts its power
An emerald glint upon his eye,
To benumb his senseless brain,
His loudly longing he reveals
X’s ire begins to sour
By cursing the luck of that smug little guy;
Faltering in his permanent aim,
Wondering why oh why oh why
Trapped in the shade of this wild bower,
That comely she:
‘His countenance turns ever down;
Is dancing with he
Singed within by the silent flame
Tasted of another, who’s much more fly.
Of broken dreams and creeping shame,
And all X can do is sigh.

---

PERSPECTIVES

Drilled in 1999, Sudan experienced a great influx of revenue into their struggling economy. Corporations from energy-hungry nations like China,
India, and Russia took advantage of Western reluctance to invest in an authoritarian regime with a tainted human rights record.
Despite increased oil revenues, regions outside the national capital in Khartoum have not experienced the benefits of foreign investment. The
reverse is true: the people of Darfur are seeing foreign investment used against them in the form of janjaweed militia
attacks funded by their own government. With 80 percent of Sudanese citizens working as farmers and no government spending on
social welfare, divestment targeted at the oil industry and any company solely operating in Khartoum will have a disproportionate effect
on the Sudanese government.

Most importantly, the Sudanese government is paying attention to the movement. In March 2006, the Sudanese ambassador to the U.S.
wrote an open letter urging Americans to reconsider their initiatives. One week later, The New York Times ran an 8-page,
$929,000 Sudan-paid advertisement encouraging foreign investment in their country. These two actions illustrate that, while the Khartoum regime has been
unresponsive to political action by the international community, they understand the implications of divestment and economic pressure.

In the end, the trustees of Davidson College have a legal and fiduciary responsibility to protect and improve the college
endowment. Back at home, Davidson students who have raised the issue of divestment to our administration have been assured that
we do not own holdings in companies within our independently managed investment portfolios. But this pledge cannot be extended to
our significantly larger commingled accounts and mutual funds. However, the situation in Darfur presents the rare circumstance of universal agreement
that these particular crimes against humanity are inconsistent with the stated purposes of honor and integrity of many reputable institutions.
With demand created by other states, universities, and religious organizations such as Presbyterian Church USA, alternative investment vehicles and Sudan-free
financial indices are abundant. Even if Davidson College deems divestment from Sudan to be detrimental to the College endowment, as
a morally inclined institution whose primary purpose is to develop humane instincts and sentiments, it should be our duty to
voice our opinion as shareholders to our money managers and mutual funds.

Justin Eusebio ’09 is a Biology and Anthropology major from Lincolnwood, IL. Contact him at jueusebio@davidson.edu.
