THE DAVIDSONIAN: Monsoor deserved the propelled grenade fire. In the middle of the afternoon, a terrorist managed to throw a
grenade into their elevator. His fellow injured SEALs lived and testified to Monsoor’s life-saving actions:

“He never took his eye off the grenade; his only movement was down toward it. He could have simply rolled
out the door, out of the blast radius and into safety when the grenade landed. Instead, he made a decision
he knew would result in death, to preserve the lives of his SEALs.”

As overwhelming as Monsoor’s actions were, it isn’t shocking such a man would perform in this manner. First of all,
Monsoor was a Navy SEAL. SEALs are the definition of honor and steadfastness.

“I do not advertise the nature of my work nor seek recognition for my actions. I voluntarily accept the inherent
hazards of my profession, a common man with an uncommon desire to succeed.” He does not stumble over words like
sacrifice, duty, and honor.

But these are more than words. He understands that his country, family, and teammates are worth dying for. He attacks
evil and champions the good and righteous. He performs his job and lives without any expectation or desire for commendation.
He was posthumously awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor on April 8, 2008, at the White House.

By Bobby DesPain

PERSPECTIVES: Davidson gives students

By ANJAN MUKHERJEE
Guest Columnist

It is 1:19 am—technically Monday morning. For the last hour, I’ve been on a couch on the third level of
the Union, staring at a blank document on my computer. I tried thinking of interesting topics without writing about the
obvious. I didn’t want to write about politics or Davidson Basketball, simply because I figured everyone else would do so.
Next, I thought about what upset me—perhaps I could take out some of my frustration through an article in a
weekly collegiate newspaper. I quickly realized that there are too many aggravating topics to pick from; the word limit for
this article restricts me from adequately addressing the issues. So, if I didn’t want to write about what made me
upset, what could I do? Quite simply, I decided to write about the aspects of Davidson that thrill me. I,
for one, feel very fortunate to attend an institution that focuses so heavily on the students: for that dedication, the
student body is very grateful. These days, it seems as if time goes by faster than ever; it is quite
difficult to find a moment to catch our breath, much less reflect on the bigger picture.

First, I am very happy that Tom Ross is the president of Davidson College. His presidency has emphasized diversity on
campus. We all know Davidson is not exactly the most diverse college campus, and President Ross is taking the right
step to put that issue in our conversations. Students also want to be in contact with the college administration; President
Ross does a good job of maintaining close relations with students. Additionally, in his first year, Davidson greatly amended its
financial aid options for students. As if that weren’t enough, the men’s basketball team...

So sometime between the first round and the Elite Eight of the NCAA Tournament, Davidson College became the hottest topic
of conversation since Eliot Spitzer got caught with his pants down by his own law. I love double entendres. Our
basketball team, led by the effortlessly dapper Jason Richards and the soon-to-be-legend Mr. Curry...sorry, I mean Stephen...exceeded its highest expectations
during these past few weeks. I could try to explain the feeling around campus (and Davidson North: AKA Dearborn/Detroit), but
it’s one of those things where people can’t quite find the words. But then they find a few beers, and
the words just flow like rain (acid rain if you’re in Detroit). Was the country really surprised we made it
to the Elite Eight as a 10-seed? Or that we almost upset the future national champion Kansas? There was no
way to foresee the breadth of Davidson’s success in the tournament, but looking back, the pieces seem to fit. Think
about how overly achieving Davidson kids are in general. With as many kids as we have who take their Organic
Chemistry books to Commons, or who salivate at the notion of a triple integral, how could anyone think our smart
little basketball team wouldn’t reach far beyond expectations just like the rest of us? We had to cure small, starving
orphans in Mongolia to get in here, so playing a little basketball is like taking candy from a baby. (I
can’t believe I just wrote such an ironic statement by accident.) This basketball season also provided free sports education for
hundreds of Davidson girls, and endless headaches for their respective boyfriends. One of...my friends—a girl who, at one time, did
not know how many innings there were in a professional baseball game—began regularly checking ESPN.com and spouting off stats left
and right. On a side note, I love it when boys automatically assume that girls know little, if anything, about
sports. Monday night, I found myself engrossed in a discussion with two of my guy friends regarding the fast-approaching national
championship. I declared that I hoped Kansas would win, but that I thought Memphis would. Maybe I shouldn’t admit that
now, if I’m trying to look legitimate. Anyway,

ASHLEY SEMBLE

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 2008

great life team reached the Elite Eight. Overall, I am extremely pleased with President Ross’s first year at Davidson, and
am excited about the direction in which he seems to be leading the college. I am also very glad that
the college’s trustees care so much about the students. They personally paid for several hundred students to travel to Detroit
for the NCAA tournament—including transportation, lodging, and game tickets—to support an athletic event. What is even more absurd is that
they did it again when we won on Friday night. That sort of commitment to a student body is unparalleled.
I, for one, feel very fortunate to attend an institution that focuses so heavily on the students: for that dedication,
the student body is very grateful.

Finally, I am very happy about Live Thursdays. This weekly event allows for student performers to showcase their talents in
a casual and stress-free manner. As a student performer, I am very glad for an outlet to perform music. Too
often, students take for granted, but much work goes into staging these events. This campus is home to many musicians,
actors, comedians, and artists. I love the fact that they have the opportunity to do what they love for an
audience. As a musician, I would have a hard time going to a college where the arts were not supported
as strongly as they are here at Davidson. Without Live Thursdays, there would be no regular outlet for student groups
such as Oops and Off Main.

In the midst of all of the terrible goings-on in the world, we should all try and make time to
take a step back. Sometimes, especially at Davidson, we feel as if the whole world is coming down on us.
Although we like to think that we can take on any challenge, sometimes there are unexpected bumps along the way.
There will undoubtedly be a thunderstorm that is too frightening for us to bear alone. In times like these, we
must simply remember our favorite things, and then we won’t feel so bad.

Anjan Mukherjee ’09 is a Music major from Chevy Chase, Md. Contact him at anmukherjee@davidson.edu.

Savor memories from Elite experience

One of them promptly responded with, “Ashley, do you even KNOW who plays for Memphis?” To which I replied, “No
sir, I don’t know anything about basketball or any sports for that matter. All I know how to do is
cook, clean, and make babies. I have some brownies in my bag if you want some.” Actually, I didn’t really
say that, but I wish I'd thought of such a good comeback at the time. Don’t you hate it when
that happens?

And as we all know, there are going to be too many freshmen next year. Stephen Curry has usurped the
admissions counselors by getting our often-overlooked school’s name out there to the public. However, the press came at a slightly
inopportune moment. Those freshmen who might have once flatly rejected Davidson will now think twice about turning down a school
with such high academic standing, and whose trustees provide free trips to the Sweet Sixteen half a country away. How
could anyone think our smart little basketball team wouldn't reach far beyond expectations, just like the rest of us?

There will be more freshman girls than ever before. Yes, future sophomore girls, your worst nightmare has come true. Yes,
future sophomore boys, God has answered your prayers. And begin Facebook stalking...NOW. Fair warning: the future freshman girls will remember
who awkwardly Facebook-friended them before they got to school. These acts will haunt the Facebook stalker in question until the
day they die, so friend wisely. Also to sophomore and senior boys, I don’t think RLO will let you offer
your rooms up as “extra housing” for freshman girls. That means you, Josh Parkey. Nice try, though.

Davidson basketball season might be over, but the memories remain, or perhaps, some of the memories if you frequented Detroit
Beer Company. And yes, that means YOU, Tom Ross. I’m calling you out. Until next year’s season, we'll just have
to settle for squirrels throwing themselves onto transformers for excitement. And of course: Thanks team, we love you! AHHHH!

Ashley Semble ’09 is a History major from Winston-Salem, N.C. Contact her at assemble@davidson.edu.
