Tue Davidsonian

Sig Ep, from page 1

Self Selection as “subtle hazing” and then shut down Sig Ep's activities for the night after only about 15 minutes. Schultz conceded that Sig Ep had a valid point in that the College had sent mixed messages to Sig Ep. According to Schultz, other fraternities are allowed to send their pledges “running half naked” around Patterson Court on Self Selection night, and numerous other fraternities and eating houses engage in what could be deemed hazing during the same event. However, Sig Ep was under probation and careful scrutiny. Schultz stressed that by no means does she want to shut down the fraternity, but that she does want Sig Ep to learn a lesson.

Defense Advisor DJ Carella '09 and the rest of the fraternity were given one day to prepare for the trial: the administration informed them on Monday that the trial would occur the following evening. All Sig Ep members in attendance at the trial, new members included, had different recollections of Self Selection from Schultz, Brown, and Perillo. According to the Sig Ep New Member Educator Patrick Polen '08, the activities were designed for the members to get to know each other. Pledges were to learn information about other members of the fraternity in their house’s basement, and then they would compete in trivia games designed to help them get to know one another at a senior apartment. Afterward, they would travel off campus to eat pizza and learn fraternity cheers. All of the activities planned for the night were approved by Schultz, but they were not discussed in great detail because Schultz's main concern was that all of the activities were alcohol-free, which Polen stated that they were.

Carella confirmed that the lights were off in the house not to create an atmosphere of intimidation, but one of excitement. As pledges walked into the house, they were greeted with welcoming cheers and excitement from the brothers. However, since the activities were stopped so soon, only five pledges were able to experience the excitement of being welcomed into the house. Additionally, while brothers were yelling obscenities at the pledges, it was done in a lighthearted manner. Several former pledges who testified at the trial stated that the brothers were yelling things like “Ron Paul '08!” and “Expletive!” and other things that were comical and not intimidating in the least. Other members who testified at the trial also confirmed that brothers were not throwing objects from inside of the house, but were lobbing bagels off the roof of the house. According to brothers at the trial, throwing bagels off the roof of the house is a common practice at many Sig Ep dinners as a form of comic relief. Additionally, both brothers and former pledges testified that no one threw an apple out of the window of the house. While the matter of apples and bagels was not particularly pertinent to the trial and to the matter of hazing, the discussion of these objects lightened the somewhat tense atmosphere of the trial.

Carella confirmed that while the brothers did yell at an individual to put his shirt on, it was a brother and not, as Schultz assumed, a pledge. Carella also clarified the matter of the supposed threat that only 24 members would be initiated into the house. According to Carella, Schultz misheard the quotation: brothers had actually yelled at the pledges, “There are 25 of you here, but there should be 26.” As it turns out, the 26th pledge is a ringer of sorts. He is actually a brother and not part of the pledge class, so the activity is done in order to trick the pledges into thinking they have left one of their members behind. This is a Sig Ep ritual done year after year. According to Carella, it is done in order to stress “the unity of the class” so that they can understand that as fraternity brothers, they need to look out for each other.

Many of Sig Ep’s witnesses at the trial were pledges at Self Selection, and all confirmed that they did not feel intimidated or demeaned by what had occurred that night. All shared that they had been excited and eager and were extremely disappointed when the festivities were cut short. Additionally, Carella received signed statements saying they hadn't felt intimidated or demeaned from all but one of the pledges, who could not be reached in time given the lack of advance preparation time for the trial.

While Schultz stressed that the issue of the brothers prohibiting pledges from speaking constituted a violation of Article 18 of the Patterson Court New Member Bill of Rights, the brothers present at the trial stated that they did not actively enforce a prohibition from speaking, as pledges were permitted to whisper amongst each other and laugh as they sat outside of the house. The issue of whether or not Sig Ep violated the New Member Bill of Rights is central to the case, but new Sig Ep member Hugh Dowlen '11, who testified at the trial, stated that as an Honor Council member, he didn’t feel Sig Ep had violated the New Member Bill of Rights.

Sig Ep Chaplain Arie Van Sciver '09 also testified at the trial. Sciver leads the Sig Ep “standards board,” which is an internal, j-board that operates independently of the Sig Ep house and follows the Sig Ep rules. In the past, the Sig Ep standards board has imposed harsh sanctions, including expulsion from the fraternity, on Sig Ep members for infractions. Sciver found no need to investigate the events of Self Selection Night and deems the activities of the night appropriate. He stated that “new members were not held accountable to being quiet.” Furthermore, some brothers, including Andrew Hathaway '08, even went outside of the house to introduce themselves to the...Pledges

In her closing statement, Meeks stated that an intimidation factor did exist. She also pointed out inconsistencies in the testimonies about the whereabouts of Polenz. Polenz stated that he was inside the house for much of the event, while others said he was outside speaking to the pledges for most of the event, which is why the pledges were being silent. However, Polenz stated that he was actually running back and forth from inside the house to outside throughout the event.

In his closing statement, Carella brought up the “double standard” Sig Ep is being subjected to, “given what goes on on the court.” Carella argued that in the past, police officers and even Dean of Students Tom Shandley had witnessed the same Self Selection ritual occur in prior years, and that their activities had never been halted before. Carella urged that if Sig Ep were to be punished for their activities, it would be sending the message to all Patterson Court members that “the only way to avoid an investigation is to conduct all your activities secretly.” Carella stated that Sig Ep held their event right in front of the Campus Police office, which gave a high degree of transparency to their activities for the evening. He continued that since Sig Ep got in trouble for “playing by the rules” in a very open setting, other houses will not have any incentive to "be transparent and open with the administration.” However, in order for relations between Patterson Court and the administration to improve, “honest discourse” is necessary.

Wednesday, April 30, 2008

SGA announces faculty awards

AL KOWALESKI
Staff Writer

Last Thursday, the Student Government Association (SGA) met to discuss and vote on the Activities Tax Council (ATC) budget, introduce the GPA Task Force Resolution, and select the winners of the SGA Faculty Awards. The meeting was presided over by Student Body President David Greene '09 and the majority of senators were in attendance.

The first order of business for SGA was to vote on the annual ATC budget, which allocates money to the many clubs and student organizations on campus. The only significant issue brought up during this discussion was a proposition to increase the funding for Hobart Park, Davidson's annual literary magazine, by $600, both retroactively for this year as well as for the coming academic year. This request was an additional $600 to cover an increase in publishing fees. This change was agreed upon unanimously by the senators, and when put to a vote, the entire ATC budget was approved unanimously.

Next came an update from three committee chairs. Sonia Huang '10 spoke about future building projects at Davidson, including the expansion of the lounge areas and remodeling of the bathrooms in Richardson dormitory. She also addressed the potential of obtaining a childcare facility for faculty families. Finally, Huang discussed ecological issues at Davidson, including the possibility of retrofitting solar panels on buildings, and introducing low-flow showerheads throughout the campus.

Stephen Pierce '10 of the Athletics Committee introduced his new proposal, formed in conjunction with the Publicity Committee, to broaden the Davidson fan base beyond men's basketball. According to this proposal, to obtain some of the more desirable seats for men’s basketball games, students would have to attend a sufficient number of other sporting events. Pierce also raised the idea of using the Freshman Olympics night during orientation to teach the incoming freshmen the Davidson cheers and chants.

On the agenda next was a discussion of the GPA Task Force Resolution, which supports the creation of a task force to investigate grading policy and academic culture and its effects both at Davidson and after graduation. According to the resolution, the task force would be comprised of equal numbers of faculty, staff, students, and trustees. Discussion within the SGA on this resolution focused on a possible timeline to be added to the recommendation, as well as whether there were a sufficient number of trustees willing to serve on the committee. As planned, the resolution was tabled for a vote one week later.

Greene gave an update on the Diversity Coordination Board, which would soon elect four senators to the SGA. A motion was then put forth to elect Polly Draganova '09 as chairman of the Diversity Coordination Board, and this motion was passed with no dissensions but several abstaining votes.

The SGA then moved to voting on the winners for the SGA Overall Faculty Award. After reading the testimony of students in favor of each of the award finalists, Greene held the final votes. Dr. Russell Crandall won the overall award. Greene then adjourned the meeting.

Nina Mace
News Editor

Ever wonder how much that swipe of your CatCard in Commons actually costs? What's the difference in value for each meal plan? Want to make a more educated choice of meal plans for next semester? So do we. In fact, we whipped out our calculators to determine an approximate breakdown of how much you pay for each meal during the 16-week semester, using each meal plan. (Note: Bonus Bucks were subtracted from the total before average cost per meal was calculated.)

19 Meal Plan
Total: $2235.00 per semester
Bonus Bucks: $100.00
Average Cost per Meal: $7.75 (5 guest meals)

16 Meal Plan
Total: $2235.00 per semester
Bonus Bucks: $250.00
Average Cost per Meal: $7.75 (3 guest meals)

14 Meal Plan
Total: $2235.00 per semester
Bonus Bucks: $150.00
Average Cost per Meal: $7.92 (3 guest meals)

10 Meal Plan
Total: $1600.00 per semester
Bonus Bucks: $150.00
Average Cost per Meal: $9.06

5 Meal Plan
Total: $999.75 per semester
Bonus Bucks: $200.00
Average Cost per Meal: $10.00

5 Meal Plan (No Bonus Bucks)
Total: $810.75 per semester
No Bonus Bucks
Average Cost per Meal: $10.13

Senior 1 Meal Plan
Total: $117.00
No Bonus Bucks
Average Cost per Meal: $7.31

Vail Commons Cash Door Prices:
Breakfast: $6.96
Lunch: $8.25
Dinner: $9.95

Union Cash Equivalency:
Dinner: $6.50 (limited items)