2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Students attend Solidarity Sleep-Out from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m., Monday night in an effort to raise awareness of homelessness in Charlotte.

Library, from page 1

The view that more computers and study tables would increase the amount they use the library. While these results indicated harmony between high- and low-use students and faculty, the question of a potential small coffee shop in the library exposed a stark contrast between the function of the library for these two groups. Low-use students and faculty indicated that they would use the library more if there were a small coffee shop. High-use students and faculty both showed extreme disinterest, however, asserting that they would use the library less.

“This result is an accurate indicator of a real difference of opinion on campus,” Sellers said. “There are people that think a coffee shop will undermine the purpose of the library.”

The wide variety of visions for the future of the library has given the committee a huge challenge, one that demands more research before the College can take any steps forward in the renovation process. The history department is one subgroup of survey participants that has gone to great lengths to ensure that their voice is heard in the process. Dr. Sally McMillen, chair of the history department, wrote a letter to President Tom Ross and Dean Clark Ross expressing her department’s collective belief that any future plans for the library should not undermine its academic spirit. The letter received 38 signatures, including every member of the history department.

“We want to make sure that we maintain the identity of the library as the academic and intellectual center of campus,” McMillen said.

The possibility of a coffee shop has become a major point of discussion in the dialogue about the future of the library, representing the two ends of the spectrum amongst students and faculty. While some believe that the coffee shop would provide convenience and a more laid-back area in the library, others believe it will undermine its scholarly spirit. As part of the committee that helped design the current Knobloch Student Union, McMillen believes that the coffee shop is excessive.

“We have a wonderful Union Café, and to create a competing space that would serve as a social center in the library is a bad idea,” McMillen said.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 23, 2008

By ALISSA IRE
Staff Writer

At last week’s Student Government Association meeting, much of the discussion centered around potential library renovations and final nominations for end-of-the-year faculty awards. Davidson College’s Library Study Group, which is assessing and evaluating the logistics of a possible library remodel, presented information and answered student questions. Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty Clark Ross leads the group. At the meeting, he outlined the issues facing the committee.

In considering a library remodel, a primary concern is lack of space. Ross explained that a group, comprised of faculty, library staff, physical plant representatives, and students, has been assembled to make recommendations regarding the space issue, and other concerns as they arise. Director of the Library Jill Gremmels was also present at the discussion. She indicated that she is very open to hearing student feedback and encouraged students to participate in the assessment and remodel process as it unfolds.

Additionally, SGA President Davis Greene is accepting nominations for the annual SGA faculty awards. According to Greene, “SGA established the Pre-Major Advising Award to honor one faculty member each school year found to demonstrate outstanding commitment to enriching the lives of students through the role of pre-major advisor.

“The SGA Faculty Award is given annually to a member of the faculty who has proven to be an asset in the classroom, and who has also displayed a strong interest in the lives of students outside the classroom,” Greene added, explaining another honor.

There will be an open meeting tomorrow night from 7 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. in Union Room 313. Students can nominate faculty members for either or both of these awards. Students who are unable to attend are invited to email their nominations and 100-word nomination statements by 5 p.m. tomorrow. Next week SGA will vote on both the Pre-Major Advising and Faculty Awards.

Photo by Bill Giduz
DavidsonExpands Diversity with Passover Seder

KATHERINE MILLER
Staff Editor

Over the past year, Davidson’s focus on increasing and encouraging diversity on campus dominated forums, studies, and dialogues driven by both student organizations and faculty. One aspect which typically receives little attention on campus is religious diversity. Founded by Presbyterians and maintaining strong ties to the Presbyterian Church throughout its history, Davidson College over the past few decades has questioned the extent to which the church should play a role; for example, during last year’s Presidential Search, many questioned whether the College ought to require the President to attend Davidson College Presbyterian Church, as mandated in the existing bylaws. Students used to be required to attend chapel services as well, a tradition that ended in 1965. The faculty voted in favor of integration in 1961, leading to racial integration in 1962 and 10 years later in 1972, women were allowed on campus; these events forever changed the face of Davidson. Although women now comprise roughly half of the student body, by no means has the integration process ended: minority student enrollment remains low, and every effort to attract and retain students of diverse backgrounds—ethnic, economic, religious, racial, sexual—should be made. Existing programs such as Students Together Reaching Individual Development and Education (STRIDE) aim to foster a support community for ethnic minority students. However, no Davidson student will argue that there is ample room on this campus for increased diversity.

Deemphasizing church life has allowed a greater diversity among students of different faiths—but how visible of a force do these students present on campus? In order for this institution to be truly diverse, we must seek outside the realms of race and encompass all forms of diversity. One such outlet is the Hillel Jewish Student Organization. Davidson currently enrolls approximately 43 self-identified Jewish students. This past Monday, Hillel hosted a Seder dinner for Jewish and non-Jewish students, an annual event on the Jewish calendar typically celebrated during the first few evenings of Passover. The dinner took place in the 900 Room at 7 p.m., allowing a greater number of students to join in the cultural event than in last year’s dinner, which was held in Irwin Lodge. Charles Horwitz ’08, president of Hillel, organized the event, and spoke to The Davidsonian about his views of the organization: “Hillel has a dual purpose at Davidson. We do not exist only to serve the religious and cultural needs of the Jewish students here, we also exist to educate and expose non-Jewish students to Judaism.

“The Passover Seder presents a perfect example of how we not only celebrate Jewish holidays; more importantly, we invite others around campus to celebrate with us, many of whom have never been to a Passover Seder before,” Horwitz said. His opening statements to the mixed dinner company encouraged all of those for whom this was their first Seder to feel welcome as well as explaining the evening’s significance in the Jewish faith. Traditionally, family and friends join together for dinner to read a version of the Haggadah, which relates the story of the Israelite exodus from Egypt. The Seder includes not only dinner, but eating matza, drinking four cups of wine, and sharing foods of the Passover Seder Plate. Although this event is annually celebrated at home with family, it is also traditional to include guests, or attend a communal Seder at such an event as Monday evening. Hillel’s Seder gave special attention to the non-Jewish partakers, who included students and faculty members such as Dean Ernest Jeffries and President Tom Ross.

Diversity undoubtedly plays an increasingly important role on this campus. Horwitz commented on the role religion plays in his life at Davidson: “As valuable as religious diversity is to Davidson's improvement as a liberal arts institution, one must not overlook the value of being a minority. Growing up in a heavily Jewish neighborhood, I never gave much thought to my Jewish background. Being one of few Jews here on campus, however, I feel compelled to learn more about my roots so as to become a better representative to people who have had little or no contact with Jews before. Davidson has made me a better Jew.” The fact that student efforts comprise the driving force of religious events furthers their significance, as students endeavor to share their cultural heritage with others.