12 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2008

Volleyball earns two victories in Mizuno Classic

ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

The Davidson College women’s volleyball team hosted their annual home tournament this weekend, and the ’Cats impressed in their first home action of the year with victories over local rival Charlotte and Big East member Rutgers. Joining Charlotte and Rutgers in the tournament field was George Mason University.

The ‘Cats began the weekend’s festivities on Friday night with a 7:00 p.m. game against Charlotte. After a long five-set battle, the ‘Cats were victorious over the 49ers, 3-2 (25-20, 17-25, 18-25, 25-19, 15-10). In the match’s first set, Davidson was able to take an early 5-2 lead. Charlotte never recovered from the deficit, and Hayley Lawson ’11 secured the 25-20 win for Davidson. From the onset of the second game, the 49ers owned the court and evened the match with a 25-17 win. The third game was much like the second, with Charlotte dominating from the start and controlling the game en route to a 25-18 win.

Now down 2-1 and facing defeat, the ‘Cats responded with inspired play. “We were down 2-1, and I wasn’t really happy with the way that we were playing,” head coach Tim Cowie said. “But I thought that we did a great job regrouping and refocusing, and we really took control of game four. I felt the momentum shift at the end of the third game, and I thought we did a good job capitalizing on that.”

Sarabeth Peele ’11, who had a match-high 19 kills, got Davidson on the board first in the fourth set. Charlotte rallied to tie the score 6-6, but the ‘Cats answered with an 11-1 run to take a commanding 18-7 lead. They held on for a 25-10 win to force a deciding game. Davidson came out strong in the 5th set and stormed to a 6-1 lead on a Peele putaway and an ace from Christine Perzinski ’12. Strong kills from Peele and Madison Benedict ’12 helped the ‘Cats claim the 15-10 win as well as the match victory over rival Charlotte.

Day two of the tournament for the Wildcats opened with a game against the George Mason Patriots. Davidson was unable to sustain the momentum from Friday night and fell to the Patriots in the morning’s match, 3-1 (25-18, 25-14, 15-25, 25-23). Kittery Neale ’09 led the ‘Cats with 14 kills and 13 digs. Peele continued to be a dominating force for Davidson, recording 16 kills and eight digs.

In the tournament’s final match on Saturday night, the Wildcats took on Rutgers. The ‘Cats swept the competition and needed just three games to put away the Scarlet Knights 3-0 (25-21, 25-22, 25-16). In the first game, Davidson pulled ahead 20-13 and never looked back on their way to a 25-21 win. The second game proved to be more competitive as the teams were deadlocked at 14 midway through the set, but the ‘Cats were able to take control after a kill from Lawson gave the Wildcats the momentum. Davidson went on a 9-3 run following Lawson’s kill and closed out the second set 25-22. The Wildcats jumped out to an early 13-9 lead in the third and deciding game. This gap proved too much for the Knights to overcome as the ‘Cats took the game and the match (25-16).

Peele finished the tournament with 50 kills, and her performance earned her tournament MVP honors. Neale was also named to the all-tournament team after recording 35 kills, 14 assists, 21 digs, and 10 blocks in the three games. With the pair of victories over the weekend, the team improved to 3-6 on the season.

Next weekend, the team will travel to Buffalo, NY to take part in the University of Buffalo’s annual tournament. Davidson’s first game is scheduled for Friday night at 5:00 p.m. as the ‘Cats will take on St. Francis in a non-conference match-up.Sarabeth Peele '11 earned MVP honors in the Mizuno Classic after leading the 'Cats to a pair of victories.

Cooke wins bronze, enjoys Beijing experience
Photo provided by Dick Cooke
Bob Costas and Davidson baseball coach Dick Cooke pose at the Olympic baseball complex in Beijing.

By Logan Lewis
Sports Editor

He’s no Michael Phelps, but Davidson head baseball coach Dick Cooke did win a Bronze Medal in Beijing while serving as an auxiliary coach for the U.S.A Baseball team in the Beijing Olympics. Cooke, who is entering his 19th season at the helm of the 'Cats, first became involved with U.S.A. Baseball in 1999. That was the first year the International Baseball Federation and International Olympic Committee allowed professional baseball players to compete. Wanting to keep close relations with the college game, the national team chose two college coaches to be assistants, and Cooke was one of them. Cooke has now coached seven teams, including the team that won the gold medal at the 2000 Sydney Games.

Cooke stated that the players are different with virtually every new team the U.S. puts on the field, but the coaches are a different story. In fact, the team has had the same coaching staff for the last three Olympic Games. “It is important to have consistent coaching,” Cooke said. “The international game is very different off the field for the players, so it helps having coaches who can help guys get through that aspect of the Olympic experience.”

To determine who the players will be, a committee of scouts organizes a large list of prospective players. This list gradually dwindles for a variety of reasons. Namely, many top minor leaguers are not allowed to play by their major league organization because the team may wish to call them up to the big leagues in August. The fact that the summer Olympics take place during the middle of the Major League Baseball season prevents the most famous baseball players and top minor league prospects from joining in on the Olympic fun. Korea, the country that ultimately won the gold medal this summer, stopped its professional season in order to send its best players. The WNBA brought its season to a standstill so that the U.S.A. women’s basketball team could be represented well and it has been suggested that the MLB could do the same. Not having the United States’ best players available makes Team U.S.A. an underdog in Olympic baseball. “This year, on paper, we were probably the third best team so we knew we had our work cut out for us,” Cooke said.

Cooke likes the fact that the U.S.A. team is led by stars who are just beginning to shine. He thinks back now to the 2000 Games and how that team was led to gold medal glory by the strong arms of Ben Sheets and Roy Oswalt, two current major league stars. Reminiscing, Cooke said, “Ben Sheets, now of the Milwaukee Brewers, will tell anyone that the greatest thing he has ever done on a baseball field was pitching a shutout against Cuba in the gold medal game of the Sydney Olympics in 2000.” Cooke made it extremely clear that, whether as a player or coach, having U.S.A. printed across one’s uniform generates a great sense of pride, anxiety, and enthusiasm.

Cooke would See Cooke, page 11

Daniel Hauffe '10
FOOTBALL
MANASSAS, VIRGINIA

The junior defensive lineman earned PFL Defensive Player of the Week Honors after recording a career-high 43 tackles against Lenoir-Rhyne. His stellar performance included five solo tackles and four tackles for a loss.

Williams’ late touchdown makes difference in Wildcat win

Running back Justin Williams '11 plunged into the end zone from a yard out with 18 seconds remaining in the game to give the Wildcats a 20-16 victory at Lenoir-Rhyne. The win was the Wildcats’ first of the season.