THE DAVIDSONIAN
THE REAL PERSPECTIVES SECTION
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2008

DIWALI FESTIVAL OF LIGHTS INDUCES EPILEPTIC SEIZURE
SEE PAGE 3

REGISTRAR SMILES
SEE PAGE 3

TWO LARGE, BOUNCY, FULLY-REALIZED BOOKS LURE STUDENTS TO LITERARY EVENING
SEE PAGE 10

PARENTS WITHOUT PCC STICKERS KICKED OUT OF COURT PARTY
SEE PAGE 7

CONVOCATION - ATTENDED
SEE PAGE 4

DAVIDSON SHOW GETS $30,000, SERIOUSLY.
SEE PAGE 6

HACKNEYED JOKE
SEE YO MAMA

THE YOWL
Your Davidson Honor Section

Editors:
Dan Killian
Alex Hoyt

Contributors:
Mark Danforth

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

Barack Obama endorses the Yowl.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dow Jones Party Causes Court-wide Panic: “Get up, get up, and get down” theme deemed worst since Depression

There was mass confusion on the floor. Papers, frantic shouting, strange hand signals. What had started four hours earlier with
hushed tones and vague speculation had turned into the blackest night in Patterson Court history. By the time the lights
came on, 32 cases of beer and countless good memories had vanished from the Sigma Nu fraternity. For the last
45 minutes, the music was extremely sporadic, as students swayed their bodies awkwardly, unsure of what would come next.

“I was just getting into M.I.A.’s ‘Paper Planes’ when a Creed/Nickelback remix came on,” commented Jody Kellogg '09. “Good God.
What can you do?”

At 12:30 a.m., fraternity bartenders Steve Hoogland and Owen Zinaman began to vote on a $70 beer-bailout. The plan was
passed at 12:31 a.m. but was then vetoed by risk manager Leroy Stevens at 12:33 a.m. when it became apparent
that neither party was sober enough to drive the quarter-mile to the local Exxon station.

Frustration, then panic coursed through the dance floor. Partiers feared the decision would imperil the party as well as the
broader Davidson social scene.

“Will we have to drink punch? Will the Outpost raise quesadilla prices again? Will my father finally love me?” questioned
dazed sophomore Tyler Kaplan.

Across the Court at Pi Kappa Phi and other fraternities, as treasurers began discussions about how to avoid a similar
fate, nervous guests poured out from every possible exit. At Appalachian State, parties sank in size by an average of
15%. In Tibet, where they do not even have fraternities, even more young men turned to monastic life.

Although the crash has affected parties at universities and colleges across the nation, some analysts are saying this is in
fact the best time to party. According to NPR fratologist Robert Gillespie, “With nobody on the dance floor or at
the bar, cheap beer and hot girls should be easy to come by. That sure beats hot beer and cheap
girls. In times like these: party low, study high.”

A graph of party energy level versus time. As beer ran out and music became more erratic, partiers panicked. Within
hours, parties around the world were in a frenzy.Unique Semester in [insert country here]

I spent last semester in [insert country—if your listener is well-traveled, name a place like Djibouti, where the capital is
also Djibouti]. I chose a [insert unselective Midwestern university] program because I wanted a [unique, alternative, unchallenging] adventure. Plus, when’s
the next time I'll be able to goof around in [Rio, Florence, Darfur]? While you were losing sleep over Davidson
classes, I was losing my [summer savings, mind, religion] at really cool [discotheques, rave parties, soirees, tribal sacrifices]. The relaxed
schedule gave me plenty of time to explore the local [culture, women, hashish]—if you know what I mean. [Insert provocative
gesture].

One night we went [clubbing, slumming, samba-dancing, yodeling] in the center of the city. Those [French, Swiss, Swahili] go out
much later than Americans. Even though I remember the [club, beach, ghetto, mountain-top] being only a short [metro, taxi, tram,
rickshaw] ride away, after fourteen shots of [limoncello, sambuca, firewater], I had no idea how to get to my [apartment,
hostel, adobe hut, mistress’s penthouse]. The only [French, Portuguese, Sanskrit] phrase I knew was [“Don’t shoot,” “Three beers,” “Do you
have herpes?”], so instead of asking for directions I walked until I saw the [embassy, obelisk, arc, prostitute].

Clockwise from top left: the soccer match/riot/execution; local; something cultural; pretty girl.

Don’t be fooled, I did some cultural stuff as well. I went to the [parliament, national gallery, fish market] and
the birthplace of [Mozart, Cezanne, Tintin]. [If your audience challenges you, remind your listener that he or she, in fact,
did not go abroad.] I also went to a [soccer match, riot, ritualistic sacrifice]. Now that was an experience! Abroad
was a blast. I learned a little, and had a lot of fun. Coming home, I felt not only privileged,
but unique.

Baseball: The Only Pursuit in Life Where It’s Acceptable to Fail 70% of the Time

Cleveland Philips is a temporary, disgruntled contributor to the Yowl. He cannot be reached at any email address or telephone
number.

Baseball. Our national pastime, one that promotes tobacco, pinstripes but most of all, utter failure. Why do we continue to
create role models who have the success rate of the No Child Left Behind Act? If you ask me, it’s
bad for our children. My kid came home with a 45% on his addition quiz last week and couldn’t stop
smiling. “That’s better than even Manny would’ve done on that test, Daddy,” he said. Does that send the right message
to our youth? Is it okay that Jeter Jr. is batting .350 in Pre-Calc and still thinks he’s going to
make the honor roll?

Furthermore, in what other facet of life are you presented with three clear chances to not screw up? “Oh, no
honey, I don’t mind that you slept with her. Just don’t do it two more times.” So in regard to
my relationship with a sport that rewards one’s ability to observe someone else screwing up four times, thank you, but
I’ll find a different way to pass my time.
