4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By ALEX KOWALESKI
Staff Writer

On Thursday, April 17, Claudia Goldin, a professor of economics at Harvard, delivered a lecture entitled “Wage Inequality: The Race between Education and Technology in 20th Century America” in Tyler-Tallman Hall. According to Professor Goldin, for most of the 20th century, wage inequality did not expand. It was high around 1910, then decreased from 1910 until 1950, and remained roughly constant until 1980. However, after 1980, wage inequality increased very rapidly. This 20th-century pattern, Goldin stated, was due mainly to two technological booms: one at the beginning of the 20th century, with the expansion of electricity and machine power, and the second from 1980 to the present. When technology increased rapidly, such as at the beginning and end of the 20th century, the wage disparity between the educated and less educated increased, as did the economic value of graduating from high school and college.

Goldin argued that “more educated workers were in great demand at the beginning of the 20th century” because of a “machine revolution,” and that a similar phenomenon has occurred in the last 30 years. Nevertheless, according to Goldin, technology is only one side of the economic story; the rate at which education increased is even more important than technological advancements.

Bank, from page 1

Good news first. According to Haass, the good news, while limited, does exist. First, he said he does not foresee a conflict among the great powers of the world. Second, he cited Europe as an example of positive change in what was once “the messiest part of the world,” transforming into what is today one of the most peaceful, democratic areas. Haass agreed with Colin Powell’s statement that “there are no problems, only challenges.” He finds the defining challenge of the 21st century will be inextricably linked with globalization. This century will behold the existence of nine nuclear weapon-holding countries, as well as terrorism, disease, and global climate change. According to Haass, this new class of problems cannot be handled by a fragmented global community. These problems show the absolute necessity of realizing and utilizing the interconnectedness of our world.

Haass then narrowed his scope to the particular troubles the next American president will face. He spoke against unilateralism and isolationism. He used this analogy: to explain that what happens in a country does not stay within its borders. “The next president will be mindful of a global, interconnected community in that more distributed.” The United States’ particular troubles, in Haass’s opinion, are that its military forces are stretched thin, and “it is addicted to energy which it cannot provide for itself.” He said that it is in the midst of a possible economic recession while attempting to revive diplomacy, revive the military, and make our economy more stable. He also pointed out the impressive progress of South Africa and the improving poverty levels of China and India.

Goldin discusses economic disparity and wages

She then proceeded to show two graphs, one of the average education in years throughout the 20th century, and the other of the ratio of college-educated workers to high school-educated workers. The first graph showed that the ratio of college to high school workers has been increasing significantly more slowly since 1980, at about a 2 percent rate, contrasted with earlier periods.were in great demand at the beginning of the 20th century... the future of inequality depends largely on increasing the supply of educated workers. - Claudia Goldin with a 3-4 percent rate throughout much of the 20th century. The second graph showed that the average years of education in America, after rapidly increasing for many years, flattened out after 1980. Perhaps most convincing was Professor Goldin’s visual representations of her theory of wage inequality based on educational improvement, compared with actual wage inequality throughout the 20th century. The two graphs were nearly identical, with only two major variations: World War II, when demand for labor was so high that nearly everyone could find a job, and the 1970s inflation crisis, a time when less educated, blue-collar workers were hit less hard because unlike white-collar workers, their jobs often came with cost of living adjustments. Professor Goldin also addressed other factors that could have changed income inequality in the 20th century, including increased immigration and outsourcing, as well as the rise in power of labor unions in the first half of the century, followed by their decline after World War II. However, she stated that these factors, while relevant, held far less importance than the relationship between technological and educational improvement. Ultimately, Professor Goldin argued that a more successful educational system would be critical in decreasing income inequality in the future. “The future of inequality depends largely on increasing the supply of educated workers,” she said. This could be done by making it easier for lower- and middle-income Americans to pay for college. Goldin believes Davidson’s recent policy to eliminate student loans to allow all students to graduate debt-free could be a step in the right direction. The lecture was the 22nd Annual Cornelson Distinguished Lecture, sponsored by the Department of Economics. Claudia Goldin chats with students before her lecture.

THANK YOU SENIORS!

We reached our goal of 80% participation for the senior class gift! Because we surpassed our goal, President and Mrs. Ross will be MATCHING every dollar we’ve raised up to $10,000! Thank you to everyone who has given to the Senior Class Gift thus far! If you haven't yet participated, please consider doing so as soon as possible. Our time at Davidson is coming to a close, and giving to the Annual Fund is a great way to give back to the school that has given you so much over the past four years! The easiest way to give is online at: www.davidson.edu/giving

As a token of appreciation to everyone who has given, we will be holding a raffle for several items, including an iPod Nano! Only those who have given will be entered into the drawing, so make sure you make your gift today! Contact Maddie or Anders if you have any questions! (mastough or angustafson)