THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16, 2008 7

Summer countdown: the required film list
By JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Staff Writer

Believe it or not, the end of the year is almost here. After just a few more weeks, we can welcome in the summer, which offers us a complete change of pace from the monotonous routine of the school year. However, some of us like the stability of a schedule and, therefore, this change sometimes does not come as easily as it should. From life back at home, to new jobs and bidding a sad farewell to friends for a few months, the summer adjustment period may, in fact, prove difficult.

To ease this transition I have compiled a list of movies to watch before summer break begins. Gather some friends on your futon and prepare to escape into a summery state of mind. Watch one movie a week; watching too many summer flicks too quickly could result in an unnecessary shock. With a slow and steady re-introduction to the varied themes of summer, hopefully, when the end of exams finally rolls around, the warm months ahead will no longer seem like an awkward bump in the year.

Week of April 13-19: “The Sandlot”
Plot Synopsis: Hitting theaters in 1993, this comedy follows a group of neighborhood boys who have one single passion in life: baseball. The boys enjoy their days in their beloved local sandlot field, but are constantly threatened by bullies as well as the deadly “Beast”: a large, slobbering dog that lives next to the sandlot. Watch for the scene when the boys hit the pool and the lovable Squints fakes unconsciousness for a chance to mack on the older, blond lifeguard. Classic.

Week of April 20-26: “Caddyshack”
Plot Synopsis: Ah, Bushwood Country Club: elegant dinners, finely manicured lawns, Chevy Chase and Bill Murray on a gopher-killing-frenzy. Two cliques in the country club challenge each other to a high-stakes golf tournament, while young caddies deal with the politics of money, girls and each other. Always a crowd pleaser, this one will make you laugh. Memorable lines: Ty: “You take drugs Danny? Danny: Everyday. Ty: Good. Then what’s your problem? Danny: I don’t know.”

Week of April 27-May 3: “Dazed and Confused”
Plot Synopsis: Hazing to the max! The senior

When the
By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

Welcome to the dance revolution. Not to be confused with the interactive homage to Nintendo, the DDR phenomenon, which requires no rhythm, but incredible speed and endurance to keep up with technology’s rapid, multi-directional, color-coded attempt at choreography. Instead, I am talking about the incredible movement right now in the dance world which has recently struck the heartstrings of ballerinas and breakers alike. It is the wicked hot amalgamation of dance styles from across the globe and time periods, resulting in the purest form of contemporary dance which stands for more than just a good beat.

Dance. Danser, bailar, ballare, tanzen. Definitions vary from social and aesthetic perspectives, but it would not be inappropriate to claim that regardless of which linguistic position you stretch into, as soon as the word hits Wernicke’s Area, the subsequent, most simple understanding of “dance” describes the body’s rhythmic movement, usually set to music. A relatively modern interpretation of dancing would claim that people engage in dance forms for social reasons, artistic expression or experimentation. And while one should be loath to pinpoint its conception, dancing debuts in prehistoric rock paintings in India and scenes in the formidable tombs of ancient Egypt. And supported by modern archaeology, ancients danced for specific and myriad reasons such as religious worship, dramatic performance, healing rituals and competition.

Hekatombs and ritual libations aside, ballroom dance from 18th century aristocratic Europe onwards helps account for the evolutionary divergence of today’s eclectic styles. The social activity of choice from French courts to the palaces of the Hapsburgs, balls featured popular music from the Minuet to the Mazurka, the Polonaise, Quadrille and Volta, and all spotlighted the boughie youth at a DanceSport competition in Taipei.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Girls and guys take on the incoming freshmen on the final day of school. Set in 1976, the freshmen are humiliated but ultimately learn a lot about the ways of life. Look for famous faces such as Parker Posey and Matthew McConaughey.

Week of May 4-10: “Now and Then”
Plot Synopsis: Exams start this week, so before you get too depressed, here’s a little reminder that there exists a somber side to summer too. As young girls, four best friends make a promise to always help each other whenever they need it. It takes twenty years, but when a time of crisis arises, the girls, now grown women, gather together again. The movie flashes between the adult women to that pivotal summer of their pasts.

Week of May 11-17: “Heavyweights”
Plot Synopsis: Summer arrives this week, as soon as you finish your self-scheduled exams! Celebrate with this highly entertaining film about fat kids who go to fat camp. Ben Stiller plays a psychotic counselor who uses the endearing campers to film a weight-loss infomercial. But the campers don’t let “Uncle Tony’s” intimidation skills and extreme methods get them down. Memorable lines: Tony Perkis: “Attention campers. Lunch has been cancelled due to lack of hustle. Deal with it.”

Hopefully these fine pieces of cinematic genius will ease you into a comfortable state of rest and relaxation this summer. Enjoy!

Waltz gets street cred for potential marriage. France even founded the Cotillion, later known as the Debutante Ball, for the sole purpose of flaunting un peu de neon blue blood. Fast forward 200 years: meet the modern ballroom dancers. Blend the allure of Gatsby and Daisy Buchanan with the impeccable glamour of Fred and Ginger, the dances of the last 40 years nominally involve a leader and follower in close contact, who execute a series of either choreographed or improvised moves unique to the dances.

As tempting as it is to dismiss modern ballroom dancing as a crash-course for honeymooners or a social outing for older couples, in truth, the current dance world is incredibly competitive. DanceSport is the newest pairing of intense hours of training and artistic perfection. So rigorous is this dance form, that the International Olympic Committee has officially recognized DanceSport as a legitimate form of elite competition. Ten dances. Five “Standard,” including the Waltz, Tango, Foxtrot, Quickstep, and Viennese Waltz, which whip counterclockwise around the room, and five “Latin” cardio milestones in the form of Rumba, Cha Cha, Brazilian Samba, Paso Doble, and Jive. In the heat of competition, each dance is a performance, requiring a fierce change of image, style, attitude, and technique, oftentimes without even leaving the dance floor. Some couples might exceed 200 dances in the span of several hours.

Heels and hairspray left to the divas, when contemporary dance hits the streets of hardcore youth, it gives face to ‘serve tha kids’ and creates the widespread phenomenon of a vibrant identity and self-expression. The breakers of the Bronx meet name-droppin’ polos of the third coast and nar skaters from the PDX, all part of this movement which unifies under the magnetism of endorphins and the allure of a hecka cool bass line. Gone are the days of one-dimensional terpsichore. And as contemporary art fit to rival anything of Donovan, the modern dancer is versatile, flexible, innovative, and acrobatic, trained to lack a specific technique. Yet at the flip of a switch, he or she must be able to interpret musical styles from reggae to rap, hip hop, pop, rock, global beat, techno, folk, or classical.

Dancing of the 21st century mandates a dynamic, non-conformist commitment to move to whatever you get. The truest sense of modern dance comes only by abandoning the provincial scope of one style, for a greater, globally-inspired understanding. It’s the body’s self-knowledge and cultural acceptance, the fusion of an old school boom box with anything from a foxtrot to kickflips. It’s the song of the week, the beat on the street, the mash-ups of Sinatra and Bob Marley. A new era of dance is upon us, so bust out the tux and Converse. Moon River’s ‘bout to roll out.