THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2008

ELECTION 2008

Decision Davidson: how students voted

By CURT SMITH
Staff Writer

Having just had such a significant and historic election, many may wonder how Davidson students voted, and how they felt about the last two years of seemingly endless presidential campaign politics. Having similar inquiries, Professor Pat Sellers ’86 took the initiative, and with the help of the Public Opinion (POL 319) and American Politics (POL 111) classes, sought to discover where Davidson students stood on issues related to the election.

“The goal of the survey is to understand students’ political opinions, with a particular focus on the presidential race this year,” Sellers stated. Were the candidates addressing issues relevant to the nation? Is the average Davidson student politically informed? Do campaign ads have a significant effect on a voter’s decision? These were some of the chief questions that the survey attempted to answer.

Sellers wanted to make sure that the students played an integral role in assembling the survey and that it properly reflected their political concerns. Thus, he allowed them to take the lead in constructing the study. “The students in the classes wrote all the survey questions,” he said. “The students in American Politics were responsible for creating the campaign ads.” The ads were used to determine whether watching campaign ads played any role in students’ decision on which candidate to vote for. The students were asked to rate each can-

Young Democrats

ZEKE WEBSTER
Member of Young Democrats

There are two big explanations for Barack Obama’s historic victory yesterday. The first is a cautionary tale for political strategists everywhere: Parties that can’t govern well won’t continue to govern. It’s hard to imagine Obama winning this election if George Bush had been a successful president; but he ran to replace a president that has launched an unnecessary war of choice in which over four thousand Americans have died.

Still, the whole story can’t be told without mentioning what a remarkable candidate Obama has been and what a remarkable campaign he’s waged. Obama has run the largest grassroots campaign in American history, bringing in millions of donors and volunteers that would never have participated, or even voted in elections past. He is a man of tremendous charisma and character, and he has spoken directly to the American people about his vision of national change and redemption, all delivered by a dynamic new liberalism. Thanks to the enthusiasm of his supporters and his near-universal appeal, Obama has brought the Democratic Party places that it never dreamed of going in 2000 or 2004, and it shows.

While this is a great victory for Liberals, it is also a victory that should have broad appeal. In a school located in the old Confederacy, we should all have a special appreciation for the role that Obama’s race has played in this historic night. Yesterday, our country chose a Black man, married to a descendant of slaves, to lead us. Republican or Democrat, surely we can agree that this is a mighty achievement. Surely we can agree that tonight has redeemed the promise of America: that, regardless of who we are or where we come from, we all have the opportunity to make what we want of our lives.

I’ve lost count of how many times I’ve been told over the past two years that America would never elect a Black president. Tonight, millions of Americans proved those pessimists wrong. Tonight, Barack Obama proved that we are the people we aspire to be, not the people the pessimists said we were. I doubt that it will be the last time. Up until then Obama had not won any state that George W. Bush won in 2004.But at that moment CNN extrapolated Obama the winner of the candidate on a scale of 1-100, and then told to watch several ads, some of which supported a candidate and some of which opposed them. After watching each ad, the surveyed student was asked to again rate the candidate on the same scale. By doing so, they hoped to determine if the students’ opinions had changed. With an increasingly racially, economically, and socially diverse student body, Sellers expected to see some interesting results. “We have widely varying interest in and knowledge about politics on campus,” he said. “That variation creates a fertile laboratory for examining how people respond to political arguments and ads in different ways.”

Although the election may be over, the investigation is far from complete. Over the next several weeks, students in both classes will be analyzing the evidence brought forth by the survey and deciphering what all of it means. The examiners will also be hoping to use information attained from last night’s Election Party in the Union to discover how students from different states voted in the election.

“I think it [the survey] was a great idea,” said Utsha Khatri ’09. “Davidson students have a lot of varying and often strictly opposed views when it comes to politics and I’m glad that these classes have taken the time to bring those different opinions to the forefront of students’ attention. My friends and I have had conversations about the election for a while now, and it’s really interesting to now see the opinions of the broader student body as well.”

College Republicans
Mike Jucewicz
President of College Republicans

Barack Obama has made history. When he takes the oath of office on Jan. 20, he will become the first African-American president. The problems facing his administration will be daunting; from the stagnating economy to foreign policy challenges, Obama will be tested from day one. I won’t try to use my crystal ball to predict Obama’s first 100 days, or even his entire presidency for that matter, for two reasons. First, that same crystal ball has predicted that the Cubs will win the World Series the past two seasons, so its accuracy is in question. Second, there are so many unforeseeable outside forces that will shape the presidential agenda. For example, if eight years ago you predicted the Bush presidency would be marked by two major wars, people would have looked at you like you had three heads. President Bush wanted to be “the education president,” but the attacks of 9/11 changed his focus to foreign policy.

So instead, I would like to make a prediction about what the American people are going to do once Jan. 20 rolls around. The American people will rally around Obama because that’s what Americans do. The system is paramount in our country, not the man. That’s what makes America great. When McCain lost, I was disappointed, but I had no desire to go up into the mountains, grow a beard and start an insurgency. With the challenges that the nation faces, we must build consensus to find effective solutions. Obama ran as the candidate who can unite the nation, and I say we should give him a chance. The voters will decide in 2010 whether Obama has been a successful president. You can bet that the College Republicans will be working hard to return Republican majorities to Congress, as it should be. Congratulations, President-Elect Obama, I support you in your efforts, but know that I will do my duty and speak out against measures that I feel are bad for this nation. Good luck.

However, Mike Jucewicz, President of the College Republicans, ran a “good campaign,” and he then looked to the future and said, “The only way the Republicans can oppose...”