THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2008

HANNAH JAKOB
Staff Writer

Last Friday and Saturday night, Duke Performance Hall was filled with dancing and music as the Davidson College Dance Ensemble put on their fall semester show. It was the Ensemble’s 25th Anniversary and the exhibition began with a tribute to the founder, Paulette Kuran Ashlin. Ashlin ’86 founded the troupe in 1983, and over the years, the troupe’s numbers have grown from five students to nearly one-tenth of the student population. This information was projected on a large screen in center stage accompanied by photos of the early troupes, complete with unitards and pliés.

Friday night was particularly special because Ashlin was able to be there and speak about how the troupe began and how it has evolved into what it is today. A brief introduction from the president of the Ensemble and the head of the technical staff followed and revealed what an important event this anniversary was to the current ensemble and the school. Following the speeches, the lights fell, the crowd became silent and the show began!

I am not going to pretend to be an expert of dance, and I will not attempt to analyze or judge the styles of dance. But as far as my untrained eye could tell, the dancers were exquisite. The show was an hour and a half of sheer talent that filled the auditorium and impressed the audience. The show began in complete darkness, with only a few red lights held by dancers illuminating the stage. Indian music filled the hall and the dancers began to move in synchronization to the beat of the ethnic music. The unity of the dancers in each performance proved to be quite impressive. It was apparent how much time and effort had been put into the performances.

Ensemble member and dancer in both “Run It” and “I got my FREAKUM DRESS on to go OUT TONIGHT where I KISSED A GIRL (and I liked it)” Erin Berry ’12 extended thanks to the choreographers who were “amazing” and “very patient when [she] couldn’t do the moves.”

The different styles of dance included traditional ballet, Salsa, Tango, Merengue, hip hop, and more. Each performance was unique and showcased the diverse talents of the ensemble members.

“Zack and Miri” make Mec
Banks
Staff Writer

“I’m going to the movie about making a porno.” When asked about Friday evening plans last week, my response raised a couple of eyebrows. However, such a statement hardly seems bizarre since braving the curiously titled new film “Zack and Miri Make a Porno,” written and directed by Kevin Smith, whose filmography also includes “Clerks,” “Jersey Girl” and “Chasing Amy.”

Actor Seth Rogen plays Zack, a peculiar and inventive, yet absurdly tactless, neanderthal dimwit. Zack stands in as a barista at “Bean-N-Gone,” the film’s equivalent of Starbucks. Zack has never made a move on his drop-dead gorgeous, longtime friend Miriam (Elizabeth Banks). This seems quite remarkable because the two live together and Miri has an odd tendency to get naked and play dress-up in the living room. Nonetheless, when unpaid bills cause the electricity and heat to be turned off in their rinky-dink Pittsburgh apartment, the platonic roommates realized that they needed money. Desperate times call for desperate measures. Zack and Miri concoct a plan. And what could be a more logical solution than to shoot and market a film of you screwing your childhood friend? That’s exactly the epiphany Zack has after three beers, a bathroom quickie with a stripper, and a conversation with a porn star at their high school reunion.married ex-classmate and an encounter with Miri’s high school crush Bobby. Bobby Long (Brandon Routh) has recently moved to LA and hit it big (literally) in the adult film industry with his doting porn-star boyfriend (Justin Long). But this is only comedic foreplay for Smith. The film’s most compelling fairytale love story comes to a head when Zack and Miri disregard the noble, tried-and-true pursuit of sex and money and become disastrously disillusioned by traditional concepts of love, romance, and sleeping with the same person until the end of time. With “Zack and Miri,” Kevin Smith wears his heart on the sleeve of the hand he wipes with. The result is an emotionally schizophrenic sexually-themed farce. The lowbrow humor is not for the faint of heart. This is not the kind of film you want to treat your date to if you have intentions of sneaking a kiss mid-movie or going out to eat afterward. Trust me, you may lose your appetite while watching this. As a matter of fact, Jason Mewes goes full frontal and my roommate and I were left blinking in stunned silence.

The dance performances showcased a variety of styles including hip-hop, modern, lyrical, and step, all of which were very expressive. Some seemed to convey a romantic tension between the dancers, others told tales of love and heartache, while yet another told the story of an old western saloon. The ability of the dancers to express emotions and tell stories was greatly enhanced by the student-designed costumes. These outfits took much time and preparation, but the hard work clearly paid off. For instance, the cultural costumes of the Indian and the Spanish-inspired dances em-

See Dance, page 6

shows big promise

JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

While it might be easy to congratulate yet another young female artist whose songs display a prolix, carbon copy attempt at edgy piano-based rock, do not be so hasty to sell out Sarah Bareilles. Native Californian and seasoned singer-pianist, she has recently come into the long-overdue spotlight as one of the better examples of wistful wordplay and musical expertise we have seen in a while. Just 28 years old, Bareilles has already composed some real gems of songs, starting with her catchy, upbeat hit single “Love Song,” which shares a style close to that of Colbie Caillat. This single has been featured on various daytime talk shows from “Good Morning America” to Leno, as well as this year’s romantic comedy “Made of Honor,” starring Patrick Dempsey and Michelle Monaghan. Other breezy and memorable songs featured on her album “Little Voice” include “Bottle it Up,” “One Sweet Love” and “Fairytale.” While Bareilles generally keeps a consistent feel to her music, at times her style be-

See Bareilles, page 6

comes disjointed. “Hey,” by The Pixies, one of the film’s main musical tracks, does deliver, but the accompanying collection of Live, Marcy’s Playground, Primus, and comparable flagrant 90’s rock bands is just as incongruous as the film’s plot, still leaving something to be desired. “Zack and Miri” has both salacious humor and the sticky sap of a romantic comedy, yet does not particularly excel at either. Likewise, it is hard to ignore the director’s curious obsession with feces, which unfortunately transpires at “Zack and Miri’s” expense. No matter how terrible the economic crisis becomes, let us hope that no one else has to resort to making a porno.

Elizabeth Banks (left) and Seth Rogen (right) play Miri and Zack, two roommates who decide to film a porn movie to relieve their financial woes.