THE DAVIDSONIAN

Zwieryznski said. “They’re not looking at this necessarily as a bad thing.” One solution that may appease both students and
faculty would be to implement a policy similar to that at Reed College. Reed College includes a sheet with academic
transcripts that describes the college’s grading system when transcripts are sent to other programs and institutions. The research placing Davidson
at the bottom of the GPA pool conflicts with Registrar Hansford Epes’ discussion that low GPAs at Davidson was a
myth and that Davidson students actually receive high grades in comparison to other institutions.

“This [study] just affirms that [grade inflation] is not an issue,” Zwieryznski said. SGA President encouraged senators to share their
opinions at the Academic Policy Forum that was held tonight. Ross was expected to attend to discuss the findings. “There’s
a difference between the attitude of the EPC and the attitude of Tom Ross,” Katie Hunter ‘08 asked Zwieryznski how
the EPC had responded to the claim that low GPAs hurt Davidson students applying to graduate school. Zwieryznski said that
Epes, who is on the EPC, cited a quote from the dean of Yale Law School, in which he said,
“I’d rather have a Davidson graduate than an Ivy League graduate because Davidson graduates know how to work.”

Kevin Hubbard ‘11 said that this Vice President, grades are not the only factors that determine admission to graduate school.
Students who have taken certain classes that are usually only offered at a graduate school level have an advantage in
the admissions process. “Grad schools aren’t my concern,” Zwieryznski said. “Wall Street and financial institutions aren’t interested in transcripts and
course grades. We should be saying, ‘what do we do next?’” Greene said. “We should be doing that instead of
dwelling on how bad it is now.”

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 2008

Nicole Keroack ‘08 and 53 other seniors signed up as newly elected members of Phi Beta Kappa (PBK) during ceremonies
held on Monday night. PBK secretary and Martin Professor of Chemistry Merle Schuh officiated.

SGA announces Academic Policy Committees

External Affairs Committee
Duncan Bowling

SGA External Affairs Committee has two main goals: linking the student body to the town of Davidson and linking the
student body to the SGA itself. The College and the town of Davidson have always been closely related in that
what affects one usually affects the other. Thus, the External Affairs Committee aims to create and maintain dialogue between town
leaders and Davidson students. The SGA can be a mysterious organization at times; many students are not sure of what
it does or how it functions. By using several modes of communication, the External Affairs Committee aims to bring transparency
and clarity to the SGA in the eyes of the student body. Please contact Duncan Bowling for more information on
the External Affairs Committee.

Admission and Financial Aid
Lauren Cepeda

The Admission and Financial Aid Committee serves as a link between students and the Admission and Financial Aid departments, voicing
the student opinion in regards to various policies. The committee also partakes in prospective student programs such as Decision Davidson.
The committee’s next meeting is on Wednesday, April 5 and will focus on...on feasible goals for the year and issues
as they pertain to the topics. If you have any opinions, concerns, ideas, or would like to be a part
of the committee, feel free to e-mail Lauren Cepeda.

Athletic Policy
Stephen Pierce

The Athletics Committee is dedicated to serving as a conduit between student athletes and the SGA. Its main goal this
year is to survey the student body on their Davidson Athletics' varsity teams, clubs, and intramural sports. The Committee also
hopes to help stimulate the growing student support of all of our athletics programs.

Academic Policy
Colby Uptegraft

The SGA Academic Policy Committee works with students, faculty, and trustees to improve students' educational experience at Davidson. This past
year, the APC organized a forum series with various topics related to Davidson academics in which students, faculty, and trustees
were all invited to attend. Student representatives on the committee then relayed the resulting discussion to faculty, trustee committees, and
the SGA. The APC also created a Blackboard discussion link for students to post concerns as well as an academic
survey administered a few weeks ago. Although the agenda has not yet been completely set, we plan to continue the
forum series, follow up the survey, and draft a possible mid-course evaluation next year. Please feel welcome to email Colby
Uptegraft at couptegraft if you have any thoughts or concerns relevant to this committee.

Auxiliary Services
Kate Sternstein

The Auxiliary Services Committee works to connect the student voice with Dining Services and Laundry Services by evaluating the student
body's opinions and its vision for the future. The committee holds monthly dinners for approximately 20 students in the DuPont
Room, where, in exchange for a free catered meal, they have the opportunity to speak with Director of Dining Services
Dee Phillips. The first dinner is scheduled for Monday at 6 p.m. If anyone wants their voice heard, please email
kasternstein.

Student Life
Meikaela Zwieryznski

The Student Life Committee makes recommendations pertaining to all divisions under the Student Life Office (Residence Life, Career Services, Student
Health and Counseling Center, Chaplain, Community Service, International Student Office, the College Union, and Public Safety) and maintains communication with
the heads of the various divisions. Given the scope of the committee, there are liaisons assigned to each office, and
the chairperson serves on the Council of Campus and Religious Life.

Buildings and Grounds
Sonia Huang

The SGA Buildings and Grounds Committee works with faculty and with the college's Physical Plant to ensure that Davidson remains
an attractive, safe, accessible, and environmentally friendly campus. This committee is responsible for maintaining communication and acts as a liaison
between the student body and staff and faculty who are committed to Davidson's physical upkeep. The committee also helps to
educate the student body on the college's building plans and environmental policy. This past year, the Committee worked with Physical
Plant Director David Holthauser and with Dining Services Director Dee Phillips to host an Environmental Policy forum. The Buildings and
Grounds Committee also helped to bring up-the-hill recycling receptacles to campus.
