12 SPORTS THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2008

Wildcats third in SoCon after splitting games

JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

The Wildcats’ 4-0 conference start placed them atop the SoCon standings. Two weeks, four games, and several ups and downs later, the team still vies for one of the hallowed top four seeds. If the ’Cats earn one, they gain home field advantage for the first round of the playoffs. After defeating The Citadel and Appalachian State and losing to College of Charleston and Western Carolina, the ’Cats now determine their own destiny. They finished the four-game stretch with a combined 12-3 score, nearly securing one of the top berths in the conference.

Not slowing down for Fall Break, the team traveled to Charleston on Oct. 10 to take on the CofC Cougars. The game showcased another defensive showdown, with the teams drawing no goals in regulation. Jessie Baxa ’12 started the game in goal, posting four saves in the opening half. After the first 45, Christy Carry ’12 took up shop between the pipes and kept the shutout alive with two saves. Meanwhile, the offense failed to ignite a constant attack on goal. In the first half, the ’Cats managed only four shots; in the second, none. The lack of pressure on the Cougar defense would come back to haunt Davidson later. A minute and a half into overtime, CofC launched a shot from outside the box to score the golden goal.

The problems revealed by the loss — lack of focus and consistency — have recurred throughout the season. “We need to make sure we have no mental mistakes and stay focused the entire time,” Melanee Smith ’09 said. “We can’t turn off for a second because when we turn off, we stop concentrating, and they take advantage of it.”

Two relaxing days of Fall Break later, the ’Cats regained their concentration and confidence against The Citadel. While Smith and the defense posted their fifth shutout in six games, the offense resurrected its fire and pounded the visiting squad all afternoon. When the smoke cleared, Davidson had notched seven goals in the scoring column. Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10, Blakely Low ’10, and Suzanne Sittko ’10 finished the game with two goals apiece. Tiffany Mumby ’10 rounded out the tally with her score in the 41st minute. While four of the goals came unassisted, Chloe King ’10 deflected Smith’s corner to Sittko for the opening goal. Tracy McCausland ’09 and Allison Drutchas ’11 provided support for the other two scores.

The ’Cats pride themselves on selfless play. “I don’t think anybody cares who scores as long as we win,” Smith said. “While I’m playing defense, I don’t care who scores as long as [our opponents] don’t score. We want to win, and that’s the best part about our team.”

The energy and motivation kept flowing as the rest of the student body made it back to campus. Following the break, the ’Cats faced Appalachian State, a long-time rival and close competitor. Before the game on Oct. 16, Smith said, “App. State is very physical — they’re very strong, and they’re going to go hard with every tackle, even after the ball is gone. We’ve always had a hard time with them because they’re so physical. It’s usually a 1-0 game, but hopefully we’ll just play our game and not resort to playing their game — physical, direct, just kicking the ball a lot.”

Fortunately, Smith’s fears were quickly assuaged. Ten minutes into the game, the home team already commanded a 2-0 lead. Ten minutes later, Davidson stretched it to three. Completing the reversal of the CofC loss, the ’Cats concluded the game with a 4-0 victory. Carry and Loring Ward ’10 shared the shutout glory, posting a combined seven saves against the feisty Mountaineers. The Davidson offense responded to the gritty play with a barrage of 25 shots. Courtney Hart ’10 and Callan Elswick

Chloe King ’09 battles for the ball during Davidson’s 2-1 loss to Western Carolina on Sunday afternoon.’11 sent two of those to the back of the net for their first goals of the season. As the offense continued to reinforce its widespread talent, veterans Bye-Nagle and Mumby earned the other pair of goals, assisted by McCausland and Low. Another heart-breaker was in store for the ’Cats on Sun- See Soccer, page 11.

Offense explodes in sweet return home for ’Cats

Ellie Szykowny ’11 recorded the first multi-goal game of her career with two goals in the win over Bryant.

Player of the Week
Michael Saari ‘09
GOLF
LILBURN, GEORGIA

Kris HENDERSHOT
Staff Writer

After a rough road trip, the Wildcats returned home with a vengeance. Last Saturday afternoon, Davidson snapped its six-game losing streak with a 7-1 victory against the Bryant University Bulldogs. The score against California was 9-1, with the lone Davidson goal scored by defender Tyler Kirkland ’09. The score against Pacific was 4-2 with the Wildcat scores from midfielder Courtney Tobe ’11 and midfielder Clare Perry ’11. Stanford defeated Davidson 3-0.

After losing to 14th ranked California, Pacific, and Stanford over Fall Break, the Wildcats came away with an impressive win against the Bulldogs. The team proved that there is no place like home with their best performance of the year. The offensive outburst of Davidson produced its highest goal total of the season. The defense was also very impressive as it allowed just one goal and three shots. The ’Cats fell behind 1-0, then overcame the deficit, and never stopped playing hard. They dominated in every offensive category, recording a shot on goal percentage of .545, while outshooting the opponent 23-3. Four of the goals were scored in the first half on 12 shots in the half. The Wildcats had the advantage in penalty corners for the game as well, 9-4.

The goal scoring was spread out between five players, beginning with midfielder Hannah English ’09. English scored two goals in the game, recording her first multi-goal game of her career. Her first goal was assisted by midfielder Sarah Addison ’09. Kathelijn van der Ven ’12 scored the goal that put Davidson ahead. It was her third goal and tenth point of the year. Midfielder Britti Himelfarb ’09 scored Davidson’s third goal of the game. It was also her third goal of the season. Van der Ven and Himelfarb both scored on great individual efforts as they drove through the Bryant defense on their way to the net. Forward Lauren Calve ’09 scored next. Her second goal of the season was scored off of a deflection. Ellie Szykowny ’11 also scored twice for the Wildcats and recorded her first multi-goal game of her career. She now has three goals for the season. Her first goal was assisted by Himelfarb and her second was off of a deflection. After Himelfarb’s great game, she moved into a tie for the team lead in points with 10. She is now tied with van der Ven and Kirkland. Many of the goals scored were due to deflections in front of the net. The Wildcats were able to use their skills and teamwork to win this game.

Davidson plays Appalachian State on Wednesday with their minds set on revenge after a devastating 3-2 penalty-stroke loss earlier in the season. Davidson is now 4-12 overall but 4-3 at home.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Curry outlasts McKillop on final shot of three-point shootout

In the three-point shooting event during “A Night with the ’Cats,” guard Stephen Curry ’10 swished the “money ball” as time expired to edge teammate Brendan McKillop ’11 19-18 and earn the victory. Bryant Barr ’10 and Will Archambault ’10 also participated in the contest.

Saari entered the final round of the Davidson College Invitational in a tie for second place, but shot even par 35 in the final round to capture individual medalist honors by one stroke. The win was Saari’s first collegiate victory of the year and his second straight top-five finish.