4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Alumni, from page 1

For their movie, the gap between their Christian faiths (or lack thereof) is wide. In fact, their year spent together
as roommates was Craig’s first year in the Christian faith and John’s last. Now, Craig calls himself a follower of
Jesus and recalls how he gained sight and felt freed that year. By contrast, John claims that following Jesus made
him feel blinded and enslaved. He tells his personal story into and out of the faith in his book “Reasons
to Believe,” while relating it to what Christianity has come to mean in America.

“There is no doubt that the Davidson atmosphere contributed to the intensity as well as the nature of our conversation...
We took it all real personally. We weren’t just going to class and learning about stuff for tests. Whether it
was art history, literature, religion, you name it we would take it back and argue about it.” - John Marks
’85

Publishing “Reasons to Believe” led John back to Craig to continue the discussions they had left behind at Davidson. John,
who had made a career as a reporter for “60 Minutes,” came to Dallas with notepad in hand for what
he expected to be an informal interview. Craig, who now trains young Christian filmmakers, insisted on bringing his camera crew
and the documentary began. During the screening, the audience laughed loudly as the two friends talked about their college days
and first encounters with the opposite sex. Their candid manner took a far more serious tone, however, when John asked
Craig’s opinions on issues of hell, gay marriage, and God’s allowing evil in the world. They both admit that fostering
their friendship at Davidson as Humanities students contributed to the frankness they hold onto today.

“There is no doubt that the Davidson atmosphere contributed to the intensity as well as the nature of our conversation,”
John said. “We took it all real personally. We weren’t just going to class and learning about stuff for tests.
Whether it was art history, literature, religion, you name it we would take it back and argue about it.”

Both John and Craig admit, however, that it may be more difficult for today’s Davidson students to have the same
open theological discussions they had in the ‘80s. They blame politically correct language, religious clashes in politics, and the fear
of offending for this problem. Still, they encourage students to open up to share their convictions and ask questions while
listening carefully to the other side.

“Our movie is intended to wade into awkward spaces, pregnant pauses, and polite disagreements and push to a deeper level,”
Craig said.

Craig and John will travel to 15 cities over the next three months to show their movie and ignite conversation
in venues ranging from churches and bookstores to the Atheist Society. For more information visit www.purplestateofmind.com. “Purple State of Mind”
and “Reasons to Believe” are both available in the Davidson bookstore.

Real, from page 2

Programs aimed toward eliminating sexual intolerance, pushing students to criticize passive homophobia amongst their friends and being more disparaging of
bigotry posted on the Free Speech Board. SGA President Chris Burton ’08 explained to the room that this is an
issue for everyone on Davidson’s campus and not just the isolated community that we sometimes make it out to be.

“We had an amazing attendance. The students were great participants, and students who may not have understood the situation beforehand
left with a better understanding about the issue,” Galloway said. “We want to emphasize that the discussion cannot end here.
People should go out and inform the Davidson community of what they learned so that ultimately these prejudices can be
eliminated.”

Fire News

On Wednesday, Jan. 6, an officer was dispatched to 439 N. Main St. in regards to fire alarm activation. The
officer was informed by Davidson Fire Department that it appeared that steam from the shower was the culprit of the
activation. The officer was also escorted to the second floor of 439A by a fireman and the first bedroom on
that floor next to the bathroom had a violation of the fire code. The student had secured a cup over
the fire alarm sensor. Davidson Fire agreed not to involve the Fire Marshall, if the officer would address the student.

02/08/2008 4:12 p.m.

Suspicious Person

On Friday, Feb. 8, an officer was dispatched to Sloan Music Building due to an anonymous complaint of a suspicious
female, approximately college age, wearing a beige overcoat along with a pink hat, covering dark hair. Upon arrival, the officer
canvassed the inside of the building and the surrounding outside areas with negative results locating the subject. No further action
was required.

Disturbance

On Sunday, Feb. 10, an officer received a call via the officer’s cell phone. The caller advised that a couple
of people were exchanging words outside of Akers Dormitory. On arrival, a group of students standing outside of Knox Dorm
advised the two students arguing to run from the area. The group advised the two were unknown to them; the
two were last seen heading in the direction of the dormitory.Direction of Martin Court.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2008

SGA anticipates new leaders, fresh ideas

MICHELLE JESTER
Managing Editor

Campaigns of the presidential and vice-presidential candidates, the STRIDE program, and campus diversity were the major issues discussed at one
of the most attended and “explosive” SGA meetings on Thursday.

The meeting opened with an e-mail statement from SGA vice-presidential candidate Ali Karami-Ruiz ‘09, who was unable to attend Thursday’s
meeting. He apologized for his harsh comments on the STRIDE program. Karami-Ruiz claimed that he did not intend to eliminate
STRIDE, but reform it so that minority students can become more integrated into the Davidson community rather than separated.

KJ Blackwell ’09, the other vice-presidential candidate, retorted that the STRIDE program is often misconstrued as a program that perpetuates
seclusion by those who do not attend the program themselves (including Karami-Ruiz). Blackwell claimed that STRIDE actually is an outlet
to discuss diversity concerns and provides experiences that minorities will face in real life outside of Davidson.

After the heated STRIDE discussion, the three SGA presidential candidates Richmond Blake ’09, Seth Kester-Irwin ’10, and Davis Greene ’09
debated pertinent issues, beginning with the Real Talk series. Blake believed the Real Talk series to be a great outlet
for open conversations and advocated that each minority student on campus create a “wish list” that could be addressed at
these forums. In line with his platform of listening and representing the entire student body, Kester-Irwin applauded the Real Talk
program for engaging all of the students. Greene, who helped establish the Real Talk series, expressed a desire for the
Real Talks to move beyond discussion and implement actual change. He also mentioned a Multicultural Resource Center, similar to the
community service office, that could provide resources and support for diversity groups.

Changing subjects, Whitney White ’08 asked the candidates to illustrate examples of structural change that could increase diversity, such as
the Davidson Trust. Blake suggested that SGA approach the faculty and students in terms of their comfort needs so that
minority faculty and students would feel more comfortable at Davidson, while Greene advocated the Multicultural Resource Center as a structural
change with a cultural impact that could provide advice. Regarding other issues, Kester-Irwin believed that SGA should focus on accomplishing
small tasks, such as eliminating paid positions in SGA, rather than establishing lofty goals, such as the Multicultural Resource Center.
Greene expressed concern that alcohol use on campus, mental health on campus, and the rise of theft on campus have
not been extensively addressed. Blake suggested that SGA implement discussions on sexual assault and campus safety. He also advocated a
change in Davidson’s weekend culture and a recommitment to the Honor Code.

After the question-and-answer session with the presidential candidates, the SGA meeting turned to committee updates. Katie Hunter ’10, a member
of the SGA Buildings and Grounds Committee, discussed the renovations of Cunningham Fine Arts and Admissions buildings and the possible
future construction of a childcare center for Davidson employees. She also cited President Ross’ climate change agreement which stipulates that
all future buildings at Davidson will be LEED certified. In addition, she, along with Ian Mangum ’10, presented the guidelines
of the Recyclemania competition.

White, chair of the Academic Policy Forum, suggested a library renovation to include a coffee shop and more carrels and
offices in the basement. She also mentioned three future forums for this semester. The first will discuss how internships, research,
and job shadowing enrich and diversify education. This forum will be held on Wednesday, Feb. 13 at 7:30 p.m. The
other two forums will focus on learning methods and strategies at Davidson and the academic future of Davidson.

External affairs committee member Darrell Morgan ’10 talked about the Filibuster, SGA’s newsletter, with articles relating to the Add/Drop policy
and Admission and Financial Aid. Arthur Etchells ’08, who is responsible for managing the budget, discussed the rental properties for
faculty and ways to provide affordable housing for new professors. Chair of the Auxiliary Committee, Brandon Davenport ’09, mentioned the
possibilities of menu changes and a staff appreciation day for employees of Commons and Laundry Services. Laura Cepeda ’10, a
member of the Admission and Financial Aid Committee, claimed that the number of applications had increased overall but that international
student applications had remained stagnant for the past several years. She stated that they are now focusing on ways to
increase international student admission.

With the conclusion of the committee updates, SGA President Chris Burton ’08 closed with a passionate speech detailing his frustrations
regarding the views of diversity groups on campus. He was disturbed by the fact that minority groups often feel that
they have to legitimize and defend their existence and presence on campus. “If I was running on a platform of
not having the football team or the soccer team meet early, it is absurd. But, we’re asking why it is
okay for minority students to form community, and somehow, we’re intimidated by these communities,” he said. “When we think about
diversity, it is in the form of ‘what are they doing?’ and that is very backward. For students to have
such backward conversations is primitive.” Burton and Sophomore Class President Jessica Givens ’10 concluded with ardent proposals to initiate dialogue
so that these conversations can become important issues in all students’ lives.
