8

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2008

BASKETBALL PREVIEW

11/17, Norman, OK, NIT Season Tip-off

An opportunity for Davidson to flex its muscles en route to facing Oklahoma in their backyard. The Dukes are predicted
to finish 9th in the CAA.

11/18, Norman, OK NIT Season Tip-off

The winner of the Oklahoma Regional advances to Madison Square Garden for the semifinals over Thanksgiving weekend. Should both the
’Cats and Sooners win their first-round games, they will meet on ESPN at 9:30 p.m. Preseason All-American Blake Griffin leads
#12 Oklahoma in what will present an early season test for the Cats.

11/21, Belk Arena

Picked first in the Big South by a coaches/media poll, the Winthrop Eagles have made four consecutive trips to the
NCAA Tourney, including a first-round upset of Notre Dame in 2007. The Eagles seek revenge for last year’s BracketBuster loss.

12/9, Madison Square Garden, New York, NY, Jimmy V Classic

Replacing Joe Alexander and PG Darris Nichols will be difficult. Is 6’9” frosh forward Devin Ebanks up to the task?
Time will tell, but the Mountaineers were picked 9th of 16 in a strong Big East poll. They will face
Davidson in one of basketball’s most storied palaces.

12/6, Time Warner Cable Arena, Charlotte

Can the ’Cats avenge last year’s 1-point loss at the RBC Center? Can they claim their first win at Time
Warner after tough fights against UNC and Duke?

12/20, Indianapolis, IN Wooden Tradition

Purdue was picked first in the Big 10 preseason coaches’ poll. Three-point threats Keaton Grant, E’Twaun Moore, and Robbie Hummel
(Preseason Big 10 Player of the Year) will give the ’Cats a challenge as Christmas approaches.

1/7, Durham, NC

Entering the season with the #5 ranking in national polls, the Devils are loaded with young talent and ready for
a title run. Kyle Singler and Jon Scheyer return to lead a strong freshmen class that includes F Miles Plumlee
and PG Nolan Smith.

Frank Ben-Eze - Was one of the most sought-after recruits in the country and chose Davidson over Georgia Tech and
Stanford. The big man will add depth to a front court depleted by the graduations of Thomas Sander ’08 and
Boris Meno ’09. Ben-Eze helped Nigeria to the FIBA Nationals cup in 2006.

Ben Allison - Redshirted last year and now is expected to provide frontcourt depth for the ’Cats after the graduation
of Thomas Sander ’08. Allison has added 18 lbs. since last season and averaged 11.5 points and 6.4 rebounds per
game for Great Britain in Under-20 European Championships last summer.

Aaron Bond - Redshirted last year and will help fill the void left by the departed Richards. The athletic wing
player was forced out of action due to a shoulder injury last season but should see time in the backcourt
this season after appearing in six games last year.

William Reigel - One of two freshman walk-ons on the team. The 6’4” guard earned all-state honors as a senior
at Charlotte Latin.

A.J. Atkinson - Joins Reigel as a walk-on on this year’s team. His father, Alvin, played football for the Wildcats
from 1977-1980.
