2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Spratt, from page 1

Georgia, or even South Carolina?

JS: I understand things are picking up in Georgia, that the polls are getting tighter. South Carolina is not beyond
the realm of imagination—it’s a reach, but it could happen.

D: Recently we’ve heard a number of voices, Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.), for instance, say that given the financial crisis
we’re in, balancing the budget ought not be the top priority.

JS: Well, there are more seasoned economists than Barney. And Barney’s a real bright guy, saying the same thing: that
in these circumstances you just have to put the economy back on an even keel as quickly as you can.
And I think that’s going to be the prescription for action. On the other hand, on Monday Ben Bernanke (Chair
of the Federal Reserve) testified that, all things considered, given the risk of a deep and long recession, something like
the Japanese experience in the 1990s, the better part of discretion would be to have some sort of additional stimulus
to mitigate, if not avert, that type of recession. And, bear in mind, that if we have a recession that’s
deep and long the deficit will really take a hit, a big hit. So, it’s not a case where you
can protect the deficit—if you have a stimulus plan that involves spending money, the deficit will go up; if you
don’t do anything and the economy goes into deep recession, the deficit will really go up.

D: Could you give your thoughts to the Davidson student body on why a balanced budget is so important for
this country?

JS: Well, first of all, depending on who finances the deficit, it can have an effect on interest rates, because
it means the government is competing with private interest for capital. Secondly, this country has a woeful deficiency of savings,
both at the household level and at the corporate level—although corporate savings are higher than individual or government savings. We
aggravate that problem by having deficits, because deficits actually wipe out whatever savings individuals and corporate interests may account for.
Thirdly, deficits amount to our generation saying ‘We can’t afford to pay for the war in Afghanistan or Iraq. And
we can’t pay for the full costs of Medicare and Medicaid in our time; we’ll let our children pick up
the debt.’ So I think it’s an intergenerational equity question, and we should not be shoving the burden of the
debt onto our own children and grandchildren. Now, I’m cagey enough to believe that deficits can be used for constructive
purposes for countercyclical economics. But, for the most part, for the last eight years we haven’t needed to use the
deficit for that.

D: Could you talk about how your experience at Davidson has affected your life in public service?

JS: When Kennedy got elected, he was naturally appealing for a lot of young people. And, furthermore, he raised the
status of public service. So that set the tone of the climate for the first few years I was at
Davidson. If you wanted to do something in your life that allows you to act upon your convictions, collective office
was clearly one route to doing that, not the only one by any means. Davidson also taught values—stood for values
and taught values. And politics is very much about values. And we picked up much of that, as I said
in my speech today, not just from the courses we took, but from the teachers who taught us.

D: Are you planning on going to any basketball games this year?

JS: Oh boy, I went to two last year. I love the way they play.Ball. When I was at Davidson,
some looked at basketball as a distraction, not something a liberal arts college should be emphasizing. But it really did
do a lot to bring the student body together.

While one-liners in their debates are on the rise, Saturday's debate demonstrates that it is certainly not dead.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2008

SGA Discusses ITS Initiatives

FRANCISCO FIALLO
Staff Writer

At last Thursday’s SGA meeting, Student Computing Services Coordinator Shauna’h Fuegen was present to answer questions regarding the reliability of
the college’s wireless network. Fuegen mentioned that Information Technology Services (ITS) staff were surprised at a recent Davidsonian editorial complaining
about inconsistent wireless access and urged students to bring feedback directly to ITS. She also pointed out that ITS had
responded to the criticism by purchasing and installing more hardware, with new wireless access points established in Martin Court, the
third floor of the library, the fourth floor of the Union, the fitness center, and the study room in Davidson
College Presbyterian Church.

Fuegen also used the meeting as an opportunity to unveil several new initiatives from ITS. The entire wireless network will
be shifting to the Davidson Secure system, which is currently limited to college employees. This shift also coincides with a
dramatic expansion of the system’s bandwidth, which will quintuple over the next year.

Keeping with the Year of Sustainability, ITS will also be changing the system for printing documents at the busiest printers
on campus. The new PawPrint system will have a pilot setup in the Belk dormitory computer lab, which should be
up and running by the end of November. When students choose to print a document, the print job will be
stored under their account names and held in a queue. In order to actually print the document, students will have
to approach the printer and swipe their CatCard. Later, the PawPrint system will expand to the Union and to the
library, with the intention of moving to a global print queue.

Fuegen also announced the opening of two new collaborative computing centers in the Belk dormitory computer lab. The first, nicknamed
“Mama Bear” by ITS, is a conference room with four computer terminals at a large table with additional outlets for
laptops and a projector. The second, nicknamed “Baby Bear,” is a lounge with laptop-friendly furniture and a single computer connected
to a large flat panel display. The computer contains collaborative software that allows students to wirelessly connect and work on
a single document from multiple computers, simplifying group work.

In other matters, Academic Policy Committee chair Colby Uptegraft ’09 and Student Life Committee chair Mikaela Zwieryznski ’10 reopened last
year’s discussion over grade deflation at Davidson. Previously, the committee managed to obtain mean grade point averages for several (but
not all) of the college’s peer institutions; Davidson was the lowest among those disclosed. As a result, the committee is
contemplating adding a “student class profile” to transcripts sent by the registrar’s office. These profiles—which are currently available from the
registrar—state the mean GPA as well as the decile and quartile breakdowns of GPAs for students of that class year.
Students would be permitted to opt out of this disclosure.

Admissions and Financial Aid Committee chair Andrew Gorang ’09 had good news for the SGA meeting: news of the Davidson
Trust and the college’s successful basketball run had increased the visit rate by 25 percent. He also reported that the
Davidson Trust seemed successful, but aggressive fundraising would be necessary to maintain the program. He also pointed out that a
number of on-campus student employment slots were unfilled. Gorang intends to bring those concerns before the college’s trustees.
