4 Tue DAVIDSONIAN

A Latin American Filmmaker
MIKE ANDERSON Staff Writer

The Organization of Latin American Students (OLAS) and the Gay-Straight Alliance brought Louis E. Perego Moreno to Davidson’s Sprinkle Room in the Alvarez College Union. Moreno is a Cuban-Argentine filmmaker who speaks out on issues concerning Latinos, gays, and other underrepresented groups. Moreno, who himself is gay, talked of his own struggles with identity. He was raised in a Puerto Rican community of the Southern Bronx. With such a unique upbringing, he cannot identify with just one culture. “Life’s a journey of where I belong,” Moreno said.

Today, Moreno deals with identity struggles as his profession. He explained what he has done so far with Skyline Communities, a non-profit organization he founded for Latinos, blacks, and women, which he uses to produce documentaries on issues affecting those aforementioned groups. “A movie goes in people’s minds all the time; that’s why I’m a filmmaker,” Moreno said.

Thirteen young participants in the Skyline Communities led Moreno to further speak out on gay issues in the Latino and black communities. Those youths, only two of whom identified themselves as GLBTQ, examined Latino and black youths’ struggles in coming out. The seven-week program they conducted led to a short documentary called “I Know Who I Am... Do You?” which showed interviews with two Latino and two black GLBTQ youths.

Moreno said that it was particularly difficult to track down enough interviewees for the documentary. According to Moreno, not only would it take courage to talk about gay issues in a video to be shown at film festivals around the world, but also all interviewees under 18 needed their parents’ permission to participate. The search was so difficult that it took up four or five of the seven weeks allotted for the program.

Although Moreno noted that homophobia is not limited to those two ethnic groups, he said, “They’re 20 years behind in Latin America,” and that such social conservatism is “inherent to the Latino community.” According to Moreno, in Latin America, men are first-class citizens, women are second-class, gay men are third-class, and lesbian women are fourth-class. He detailed his own struggles in coming out to his mother. He tried to do it in his 20s, but she would not listen. Moreno said that she had the stereotypical cross-dressing, effeminate image of a gay man, and it took another two decades before he could confront her and convince her that he should not be held to a stereotype.

With his program Tio Louie and Four, Moreno examined Latino social conservatism. For the show, he invited people for dinner to eat, talk about culture, and discuss identity. Over his ten years as executive director, Moreno has produced over 70 other projects as well. “I like real stories about real people sharing real experiences,” he said, and he has made a career out of that passion.

10/21/08 3:11 Suspicious Person News
Concord Rd
Two officers were requested by Davidson Police to assist in a foot chase of a suspect on Concord at St Albans. Upon arrival, the suspect was in custody of the Davidson Police. The suspect was released to his father by the Davidson Police.

10/23/08 19:48 Attempt to Locate
Chambers
An officer received a call from a community member. The woman stated that a Davidson student in Chambers was tutoring her son. The high school student was to be picked up at 1900 hrs in front of Chambers. At 2030 hrs, the officer located the fifteen-year-old wandering around the outside of Chambers.

10/24/08 14:08 Hit and Run
Tomlinson
An officer spoke with Davidson College, in reference to a hit and run incident. The victim advised he parked his car in the Tomlinson parking lot on 10/23/08 at 1500 hrs and returned to his vehicle on 10/24/08 at 1300 hrs, to find damage to the rear of his bumper. The reporting officer observed minor scratches to the right rear of the vehicle. The paint transfer was white and chalky, with most marks wiping away.

10/25/08 14:02 Suspicious Person
Chambers
An officer received a call on the officer cell phone in reference to a suspicious person walking near the west side of the Chambers Building, 200 D Rd. The caller advised a white male was walking around campus with a metal detector. The reporting officer spoke with the man. He stated that he thought that Davidson College was a community college and open to the public. The man stated he is new to the area and just moved to Huntersville. The reporting officer advised him of Davidson College's trespass policy. The man stated that he did not find anything while using his metal detector on campus. He was cooperative with the officer and agreed to leave.

10/26/08 14:06 Breaking and Entering
SAE House
An officer was advised of broken glass from a door at the SPE house, 106 Nelson Ln. Upon arrival, the reporting officer observed glass broken from the door on the south side of the house. The majority of the glass fragments were on the inside of the house and the broken section of glass from the door was right above the door handle. The reporting officer spoke with a man who was working catering inside SPE. The man advised the house was just cleaned for family weekend and was all secure when he and his wife left last night. The reporting officer entered the house and observed a mess of food and an open box of beer on tables in the center of the building. It appeared several people had broken into the building, consumed a variety of foods, and left. While processing the crime scene, the reporting officer was approached by a Davidson College student who advised he had broken into the SPE building Sunday morning around 0500 hrs, using his hand to breakthe glass. The student advised he had left his Cat Card inside the building Saturday night. The student stated that another Davidson College student had accompanied him inside SPE. Both students admitted to making the mess of food that was left on the tables. When asked why he did not call the Campus Police for assistance, the student stated he was not thinking clearly.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2008

SGA allocates funds, fights grade-deflation

FRANCISCO FIALLO
Staff Writer

Budget allocations dominated the agenda at the Student Government Association’s (SGA) weekly meeting, as it moved several budget requests, some of which were submitted in September, to resolution.

The longest-standing request was that of the Davidson College’s crew team. The team had requested $21,000 for a new shell, $4,000 to make repairs to the team’s current—and only—shell which had been damaged during practice, and $3,000 for a jon boat, a small motorized boat used by the coaching staff to observe and communicate with the team while they are rowing. In previous years, the crew team had relied upon Club Sports’ Lake Campus division, which owns a fleet of donated and purchased boats, to furnish jon boats. While investigating the request, the Activities Tax Council (ATC) learned that the Lake Campus division is currently in the process of aggressively downsizing its fleet and no longer has the capacity to provide the team with jon boats. As a result, the ATC has revised its previous recommendation and now recommends that the team be given $7,000 to cover repairs and the purchase of a jon boat. The SGA will vote on the allocation this Thursday.

The crew team’s allocation was the first of two club sports allocations that came up during the meeting. The second was for roller hockey, which has run into some difficulty getting a satisfactory allocation. The ATC had rejected a large part of their initial $1,265 request—for roller skates—on the grounds that skates were personal equipment. Allocations for personal equipment violated ATC bylaws, according to ATC chairperson Robert Lassiter ’09. The request was amended to $455, with which the roller hockey team could purchase jerseys. The allocation was approved with no nay votes and one abstention. The ATC urged the team to take advantage of Club Sports’ fundraising program, which allows any team to clean up the locker room after varsity athletic events for $100, an activity which takes a group of 10 approximately 10 minutes.

The SGA also voted to allocate $1,500 dollars to the social justice organization Just Peace, which was used to fund the Eyes Wide Open exhibit as part of the group’s ongoing dialogue on the costs of the War in Iraq. Lassiter noted that Just Peace risked its entire operating budget for the year to get the exhibit before the allocation was approved, a bold measure that had impressed many on the ATC. The allocation was approved.

In addition to its three allocation votes, the SGA also discussed two other issues that would be brought before the ATC. The first was brought up by Cameron Barr ’09, who had noted the ATC’s expected $12,000 surplus for the year and raised the prospect of reducing student expenditures in the face of an economic downturn and a 25 percent reduction in the value of the college’s endowment. SGA President Davis Greene ’09 replied that the activities budget is funded by a 1 percent fee on tuition which is set by the board of trustees. This budget, which is approximately $546,000 for this year, is dwarfed by an overall operating budget of $92 million and an academic affairs budget of $30 million.

The second topic discussed was over the newly established position of publicity officer and the SGA’s effort to make the position paid. This effort was complicated by a badly worded bylaw that forbids allocations to compensate “leaders of student organizations (only under present special circumstances),” circumstances which were never clearly laid out. Treasurer Nicolas Cisneros ’09 proposed amending the bylaw, which the SGA will revisit in its upcoming meeting.

In other business, Student Life Committee chair Meikaela Zwierynzski ’10 notified the SGA that the committee would be spending $500 to sponsor a dinner between first-year students and faculty to discuss pre-major advising. Students would be selected by hall counselors, with two students from each hall attending. The dinner is the first in a series that will allow students from each class to interact with faculty socially.

“We hope to respond to the concern about our lower GPAs in relation to our peer institutions, which we learned about last year” -Davis Greene ’09

Zwierynzski also mentioned that Davidson College had finalized a contract with Apple over an iTunesU program. The program allows the college to connect its network to a private area where students can share multimedia, including documents. The program would allow students to manage podcasted lectures. ITS is currently seeking to purchase equipment and train faculty to make that a possibility. However, faculty feel that the college needs to resolve any concerns over intellectual property used in lecture, and the use of podcasts to evaluate faculty by the administration would be an unfair system of review.

The SGA also made its vote on last week’s proposal to include a cover sheet with outgoing transcripts. The cover sheet contains a short description of Davidson’s history, academic environment, the mean GPA for that year’s class and the middle fifty percentile of SAT and ACT scores of the entering class. The cover sheet is intended to reduce concerns over the negative impact of grade deflation on alumni opportunities after college.

“We hope to respond to the concern about our lower GPAs in relation to our peer institutions, which we learned about last year,” Greene said.