2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

* Primaries, from page 1

lems in Washington now and what he thinks must change in order to secure a quality future for generations to come. “What really stood out was his ability to unite the audience, both black and white, female and male, young and old,” Todd Resly ’10 said. Patty Herold ’10 was lucky enough to sit onstage during Obama’s speech. “One of the best parts of being onstage during the rally was my perfect view of the whole auditorium. It was amazing to see everyone’s excitement and support during the speech, and being able to watch the crowd react made Obama’s words even more powerful,” said Herold.

The difference in speech styles between Sens. Clinton and Obama was drastic. Clinton had a very informative style which focused on detailing the policies she would implement if elected. Conversely, Obama spent much of his speech explaining the ideologies he believes Americans should value and stressed the drastic importance of change. While Obama did discuss what he wants to change if he were elected, he did not specifically address how he plans to implement these policies as specifically as Hillary did. “Whereas Hillary focused primarily on what Bush has done wrong and how we as a nation are falling behind, Obama focused on the possibility in this election that we have to become unified under the common theme of change and become the leader in the international world that we once were,” Resly said.

The opportunity to see and hear the two frontrunner Democratic presidential candidates in person brought politics to life for the group of Davidson students in attendance. Results for the South Carolina Primary were announced last Saturday. Sen. Obama won with 55 percent of the vote. Sen. Clinton received 27 percent of the vote, while Former Senator Edwards received 18 percent. The presidential candidates are now gearing up for Super Tuesday on Feb. 5, in which 22 states will hold primaries or caucuses.

Note: The Davidsonian is a non-partisan publication. As such, we do not endorse any specific candidate or party.

By SARAH MCILROY
Staff Writer

The New York Giants will tackle the Patriots on Sunday, but at last weekend’s Souper Bowl, Hands Around Mecklenburg/Mooresville Making Emergency Repairs Safely (HAMMERS) and Engage for Change tackled the issue of substandard housing. Saturday’s event marked the fourth year that the organization HAMMERS teamed up with Davidson College to raise funds and delight taste buds. The collaboration between Davidson College and the Davidson Housing Coalition started off small, serving only a few soups at a luncheon in the Union, but it grew quickly and has been in the Lilly Family Gallery the past three years.

Many of the attendees sampled all 11 soups, each of which was designated to one of three categories: creamy, chunky and most creative. The soup-tasters were given ballots and asked to choose the best soup in each of the categories in addition to a best soup overall. Accolades and a plaque awaited the winning restaurants. Margaret Martens, chairman of HAMMERS, said that the past winners truly appreciated the prize and tended to display the plaques in their stores. “The restaurants really like the recognition,” Martens said.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2008

HAMMERS solicited sponsorships from restaurants in four towns, including Huntersville, Mooresville, Cornelius and Davidson in order to appeal to a variety of citizens and tastes. Those looking for something more than lunch were also treated to a silent auction, which contributed to the fundraising efforts. “Potters and wood-turners from the Lake Norman area donated their work and people bid on pieces,” Martens said. The silent auction generally brings in about a fifth of the total revenue raised at the event. The money goes toward addressing problems like rotten stairs, leaks, unstable floors and wheelchair ramps in low-income houses around the area. Last year HAMMERS spent $68,525 in repairs and has repaired over 65 homes since 2005. However, more people are still clamoring for help with their homes in spite of the help HAMMERS has already given to homeowners. “We always have a waiting list — we’ve decided we can manage eight homes at a time,” Martens said. The average price of safety repairs is about $1,667 per home. The Souper Bowl is one vital way to work toward these necessary funds.

See Soup, page 4

Meet the Mayor and Town Commissioners

Name: John M. Woods (Mayor)
Place of Birth: Charlotte, NC
Number of years you have lived in the Town of Davidson: Davidson native (was away for approximately 20 years with undergraduate, Army, and first 13 years of my banking career)
Number of years served on Town Board: 10 (six as Mayor pro-tem)
Favorite sport: Golf and Hunting

Name: Marguerite (Margo) Williams
Place of Birth: Houston, TX
Number of years you have lived in the Town of Davidson: 30
Number of years served on Town Board: 12
Favorite sport: Professional Football (to watch); Tennis (to play)
One goal you hope to accomplish while in office: The continued building of affordable housing throughout town, both rental and single-family
One goal you hope to accomplish while in office: Expand our commitment to open space and greenways.
Opinion on development as it stands now: Our development in Davidson has been well-managed. We do need to strengthen certain weaknesses in our Planning, Affordable Housing, and Tree ordinances. We must demand the best work developers can produce, assuring that whenLand owners decide to develop their land, that the development is done in a high-quality, complementary fashion to our community.

Opinion on the potential light rail: I believe we have great potential to offer this service which is a very necessary part of our transportation mix.

Name: Laurie Venzon
Place of Birth: Pittsburgh, PA
Number of years you have lived in the Town of Davidson: 16
Number of years served on Town Board: Zero
Favorite sport: Pro Football (to watch)

One goal you hope to accomplish while in office: Being one of five commissioners, most of our goals and what we accomplish over the next two years will be what I consider “team goals” — what we achieve together. However, on a personal level, a goal I have is for people to feel that I have served them well. By that I mean, they believe I listen to them, am approachable/accessible, responsive, proactively communicate and represent them well.

Opinion on development as it stands now: Given the economy, we may see development slow down for a short period; however, it will continue. The key is to ensure that we grow and allow development in a way that enhances our town and is beneficial for those who live and work here.

Opinion on the potential light rail: The north line will be a “commuter rail” (not light rail) and I believe it is an effort worth pursuing. There is still much work to be done in terms of engineering studies, planning, financing, etc., but it would be a valuable service for the towns of Huntersville, Cornelius, Davidson, and Mooresville to have in the near future.

Name: Evan Webster
Place of Birth: Rochester, NY
Number of years you have lived in the Town of Davidson: 18
Number of years served on Town Board: 2
Favorite sport: Golf

One goal you hope to accomplish while in office: Complete the upgrade of MI Connection Communications System and provide citizens with enhanced communications products and superior customer service.

Opinion on development as it stands now: Davidson is doing the best job in the area in controlling the rate of growth and ensuring the highest quality of development.

Opinion on the potential light rail: We need the light rail to ensure a multi-modal approach to the transportation needs of the area and region.

One of your favorite things about the Town: Being able to walk around town and receive the positive strokes you get from running into people you really enjoy.

Ownership, so that Davidson remains a place where people of all walks of life can call home. This helps in our goal of having Davidson be a sustainable small town, not just a bedroom community of Charlotte.

Opinion on development as it stands now: Our planning document has done an admirable job of assuring that we get an attractive mix of housing types and uses, but we still need to achieve a better balance in our tax base by decreasing residential and increasing commercial uses and in attracting more jobs to our town.

Opinion on the potential light rail: I believe in the importance of light rail for many reasons — gas is at an all-time high of $100 a barrel, which will translate into higher prices at the pump. We want our community to have a lighter carbon footprint, so we have to develop transit options that do not involve cars, and land-use policies that follow rail help ease suburban sprawl and add to the walkability of town.

Name: Bill Johnson
Place of Birth: Lakewood, OH
Number of years you have lived in the Town of Davidson: 6
Number of years served on Town Board: 0
Favorite sport: Golf

One goal you hope to accomplish while in office: Establish a priority of small goals along with funding sources to fulfill the mission of Davidson to the highest level possible.

Opinion on development as it stands now: Rapid, but controlled growth.

Opinion on the potential light rail: A necessity, but needs to be complementary with the citizen’s desire for Davidson to retain the characteristics of a small town.

Name: Brian Jenest
Place of Birth: Boston, MA
Number of years served on Town Board: 0
Favorite sport: Snow Skiing

One goal to accomplish while in office: I would like to forge a regional relationship with the surrounding towns to begin to address issues of mutual interest such as transportation and future land use.

Opinion on development as it now stands: Given the rapid growth of our area over the last several years, through its Planning Ordinance, Planning and Design Review Boards, and Town Board leadership, Davidson has done an excellent job in controlling growth while increasing property values and providing needed tax base.

Opinion on potential light rail: Mass transit is a very important part of Davidson’s future. As we grow as a region, providing alternatives to the automobile and creating land uses that are compact and provide a mix of uses will be essential to our sustainability.

Favorite thing about the Town: We live in an area that is very desirable and therefore there are many development pressures. However, Davidson is a town that has managed to respect its past through the preservation of its history and character, but also is looking to the future in a proactive, progressive way by providing and promoting affordable housing, mass transit, and preservation of open space. This is not a small task and for this, I am most proud and fortunate to be a part of this community.

Photos courtesy of Town of Davidson Website (www.ci.davidson.nc.us)