12 Offense comes alive as Cats move atop SoCon
JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

The non-conference schedule that plagued the women’s soccer team has been all but erased. This weekend at Alumni Stadium, the ’Cats racked up a combined 8-0 advantage over conference competitors Samford and Chattanooga. They now share first place in the SoCon with Western Carolina.

After its first 3-goal performance against Furman last week, the team hoped to repeat its offensive attack against Samford. The newcomers to the Southern Conference arrived with a string of NCAA tournament appearances under their belt. But the home team wasn’t deterred, notching 3 more goals, along with its second straight shutout.

As the fans still trickled in, Tracy McCausland ’09 ripped a 28-yard shot to put the Wildcats on the scoreboard 1-0. The momentum generated rhythm and confidence for the ’Cats all half. Even though Samford outshot Davidson 4-2 in the opening period, the visitors only put one ball on target, saved by goalie Jessie Baxa ’12.

The second half opened up in more explosive fashion for the ’Cats. Merely eight and a half minutes into the period, Melanie Smith ’09 was given a free kick from near the midfield line. She capitalized on the opportunity, sending a streaking ball deep into the box. Amanda Flink ’11 read the trajectory with precision, and one graceful header later, doubled the Davidson lead to 2-0.

Twelve minutes and several repeated attempts on goal later, Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10 took matters into her own hands at the 18-yard marker. Stepping up to the box, she launched one of the most gorgeous shots seen all season. No error can be attributed to the Samford goalie — she had no chance.

Boosted by the offensive success, the ’Cats exuded confidence on both offense and defense for the final 25 minutes. Davidson outshot the adversaries eight to five in the second half, spotlighting both domination on the attack and the grace of Baxa in net.

While one blowout shutout in a weekend is reason enough to boast, a second is absolutely stupendous. The ’Cats decided to up the scoring ante against Chattanooga on Sunday, ripping five goals to none.

Bye-Nagel initiated the goal-scoring barrage in the 26th minute, directing a cross from Lauren Conner ’10 into the near post. While the ’Cats only took a 1-0 lead going into halftime, Bye-Nagel again led off the offense 15 minutes into the second half. Assisted by a free kick from Smith, she notched her first two-goal game this season.

Over 20 minutes ticked away before the main assault came, the back-to-back-to-back scoring frenzy at the end of the second half. A deft pass from Allison Drutchas ’11 resulted in a one-on-one between Tiffany Mumby ’09 and her defender. Mumby had no problem releasing the third Davidson goal. Blakely Low ’10 and Flink rounded off the scoring tally with assists from Elizabeth Underwood ’12 and Smith, respectively. Low’s score transpired from a strategic through-ball from Underwood, while Flink’s effort resulted from a Smith corner kick. Smith now leads the team in assists, with five.

Most astounding of all the stats is the number of Wildcat shots, 27, to Chattanooga’s two. The 5-0 result is the most lopsided tally of the year thus far.

After a second consecutive weekend with back-to-back victories, the ’Cats improved their conference record to 4-0-0, 6-2-3 overall. While most of the campus departs for fall break this weekend, the team will continue its grueling SoCon schedule. Davidson takes on College of Charleston in Charleston this Friday at 7 p.m. Two days later, the team will play The Citadel at Alumni Stadium at 2 p.m.

The ’Cats will face a Charleston team with a 1-2-1 conference record, but both losses come from a pair of the SoCon’s best teams — Western Carolina and UNC-Greensboro. The Citadel, though at the bottom of the tough conference pack, must not be overlooked. If the ’Cats can pull off victories in both games, they will justify their current position atop the conference standings.

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, October 8, 2008

Kyri Bye-Nagel scored two goals for her first multi-goal game of the season as the ’Cats topped SoCon rival Chattanooga 5-0 at Alumni Stadium on Sunday.Hoyt, Sanker lead Wildcats in Louisville Classic

Peter Costas
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats Men’s cross country team continued their solid start to the 2008 season with a strong showing at the Greater Louisville Cross Country Classic. On Saturday, the Wildcats faced a much tougher field than in their first meet. The ’Cats traveled to the University of Louisville to race against some of the best teams in Division I Cross Country. This 8K race was held at the E.P. Tom Sawyer Park, an uneven grass surface with three hills. The Wildcats finished in 19th place with 549 points. The race included 33 teams and nearly 300 runners, so Head Coach Gary Andrew was very pleased with his team’s finish.

“This was a breakthrough performance for the Davidson men’s program,” he said. Coach Andrew was especially pleased as injuries hampered the Wildcat line-up, leaving the team without several of its leaders. “Despite having three of our top runners out due to injury, including our top runner, Tom Divinnie, we had our single best team performance time-wise for any 8K course through the years,” he added.

Player of the Week
Alex Hoyt ‘09
Cross Country
SALEM, VIRGINIA

Hoyt’s 8K time of 25:35 in the Greater Louisville Cross Country Classic ranked among the ten best times ever for a Davidson runner on an 8K course. His performance was good enough for 87th place overall as the team ran to its fastest finish in an 8K event in program history.

Commenting on the individual performances, Coach Andrew was excited about the achievements that some of the runners on the team had already reached. “Lance Harden, running in his first race since he was injured in March of 2007, ran his third fastest time ever for an 8K, finishing right behind Alex Hoyt,” he said. “Hoyt’s time of 25:35 places him among the top 10 runners ever for 8K in Davidson history. Freshman Ryan Hopkins’ time of 26:02 is the second fastest 8K time ever for a Davidson freshman behind Lance’s 25:42 from the fall of 2005.”

“We were all really excited about our showing,” Hoyt said. “Lance’s performance was so impressive.” “If you add all our scores together, it was probably one of the best aggregate 8K times Davidson has ever posted,” he added. “We could conceivably see eight guys finish under 26 minutes before the season ends.”

The top finishers for Davidson were Hoyt ’09 (80th/25:35), Harden ’09 (90th/25:41), Hopkins ’12 (118th/26:02), Greg Marcil ’11 (129th/26:08), Peter Bruton ’10 (132nd/26:09), Ian Tupper ’12 (140th/26:13), and Jonathan Koch ’10 (203rd/27:34). Southern Illinois University won the tourney while the hosting Cardinals of Louisville posted a fourth-place finish. Next Friday, the Wildcats will head to Boone, N.C. for the Blue Ridge Mountain Open.

Similarly, the Davidson Wildcats women’s cross country team continued their 2008 season with a strong showing at the Greater Louisville Cross Country Classic. The Wildcats finished in 11th place last Saturday in a 5K race. Like the men, this race was against many of the top Division I teams, so to finish 11th out of 32 teams was a solid finish. Caroline Sanker ’09 led the Wildcats with an individual finish of 15th place. She came in with a time of 17:50. Other top finishers for the Wildcats were Danielle Ruggieri ’11 (47th/18:34), Lauren Childs ’11 (82nd/18:56), Heather Connaroe ’11 (84th/18:56), and Emily King ’09 (98th/19:09). The University of Texas outran the rest of the field on their way to capturing the title in the tournament. The Wildcats will race next on October 17 when they travel to Boone, N.C. for the Blue Ridge Mountain Open. Both the Men’s and Women’s teams will continue their seasons next week and then will prepare for the SoCon Championships which will be held on Nov. 1 in Spartanburg, S.C.

Late goals send men’s soccer to first SoCon victory

With less than five minutes remaining in regulation and the score knotted at 0-0, Greg Macnamara ’12 and Machel Turner ’10 executed a give-and-go play to set up Macnamara’s goal which proved to be the difference in the ’Cats 1-0 win over UNCG. The goal was Macnamara’s first of his career.