THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2008

DCSO concerto winners perform

Ben IRELAND
Staff Writer

This past Friday in the Duke Family Performance Hall, the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra (DCSO) featured a guest-student conductor as well as the three soloist winners of the 2008 Concerto Competition. The DCSO showcased five pieces under the direction of conductor Dr. Tara Chamra, during which soloists Anne Horn ’09 (piano), Matthew Capone ’11 (viola), and Ryan Cockman ’10 (violin) individually performed with orchestral accompaniment.

Additionally, Jenna Gould ’09, a Long Music Scholarship recipient and student of Dr. Chamra, conducted an Andante movement from Leos Janacek’s “Idylla.” Gould was gracefully at ease directing the DCSO, keeping strict pace and tempo while triumphantly flicking her conductor’s stick.

Pianist Anne Horn, a student of Dr. Cynthia Lawing and a recipient of the Long Music Scholarship, opened the symphony with the spirited Allegro appassionato movement from Brahms’ Piano Concerto No. 2 in B-flat major. Horn, dressed in a beautiful red dress, captured the audience’s attention starting from her first arpeggio to the last chord, articulating each syncopated accent and entering skillfully in musical dialogue with the orchestra. It was a stunning performance from a pianist with a true musical gift.

Following Horn’s performance was Matthew Capone on viola. His piece was the Moderato movement from Bela Bartok’s “Concerto for Viola.” Capone, a Maryland native and recipient of the Donald C. Plott Music Scholarship, had studied violin with Osman Kivrak, a highly acclaimed Turkish-American violist and composer, before switching to viola at the beginning of 2006. Currently at Davidson, he studies with Piotr Swic. I could not have been more amazed at Capone’s masterful and impressive execution of playing high and low scales and at his overall performance throughout this difficult folk-influenced piece. Because Capone is a sophomore, the Davidson community will have a few more years to continue hearing his brilliant performances with the DCSO.

Finally, Ryan Cockman closed the soloist showcase with his violin concerto of Sarasate’s “Zigeunerweisen.” Simply put, I was completely blown away. The first part of this piece featured the violin playing almost in an improvisatory manner. Then, a smooth transition was made to the second part of the piece. Cockman made use of extremely difficult violin techniques such as slides and pizzicatos that alternated between right and left hands. Dressed in a classy tuxedo, Cockman executed each technique as if he had been playing all his life. As the song approached its final measures, Cockman was moving his violin bow so quickly that I had vertigo. Nevertheless, that did not stop me from giving him and the orchestra a brilliant, well-deserved round of applause.

Indeed, an absolutely impressive performance from conductor Gould and soloists Cockman, Capone, and Horn. The final selection featured the entire DCSO with Georges Bizet’s “L’arlésienne” under the direction of Dr. Chamra. Dr. Chamra, Assistant Professor of Music and Director of the DCSO, has served as conductor on the national and international strata. Recently, she conducted a performance with

See DCSO, page 6

Former pro skateboarder Matt Costa rocks the 900 Room

Matt Costa came to the 900 Room last Friday and amazed the audience with his folksy style. Davidson student Alexis Valauri-Orton '12 opened.

Louis ALL
Guest Writer

After watching the men’s basketball team trounce Guilford, many left the Baker arena and ran to the Union in the pouring rain. The Union turned out to be the perfect place to dry off and hang out for Matt Costa’s performance. The Union Board always provides quality entertainment on the weekends, and this past Friday was no exception.

The 900 Room filled quickly as Alexis Valauri-Orton, a freshman from Seattle, Wash., began her opening act. Valauri-Orton took the stage and sang a few songs solo, while the audience chatted quietly and the room slowly gathered energy. By the time Matt Costa, from Huntington Beach, Calif., got on stage, Davidson students were charged. Costa, thriving in the intimate atmosphere of the 900 Room, fully engaged with his audience. This lesser-known folk singer, who opened for Jack Johnson in his 2005 summer tour and his 2006 European tour, was able to capture everyone’s attention. People in the balcony and around the café clapped to the rhythm of his music. He even sang a few of his songs without a mic, but was still well heard. And his banjo accompaniment added to the upbeat, folksy aspect of his music.

Some students that attended this show were diehard Matt Costa fans, while others had not heard of him until this past week and ended up at the concert only because of the rain. Both parties, however, enjoyed the music he had to offer. After witnessing the seemingly small turnout at the Jason Mraz concert last semester in Baker, I was surprised to see so many Davidson students at this concert. This Matt Costa performance had little publicity compared to the Jason Mraz concert, which the Union Board played up for months prior to the event. Although the size of theVenues may have contributed to my perception of their relative successes (Baker is much larger than the 900 Room). I was impressed with the initial turnout to the Matt Costa performance. The audience thinned as people went to bed or to other various Patterson Court activities. I, in fact, left after “Sunshine,” one of his better-known songs. Although I liked the music, the concert did start rather late, and, still damp from the trek to the Union after the game, I was ready to go back to my dorm. By the end, only about twelve people were remaining. But even those who stayed said that the last songs that Costa performed were his best. This concert revealed that many students on Davidson campus are interested in attending any kind of concert, even if they are not familiar with the artist. We should thank the Union Board, and especially Michael Melody, for putting together the entire event. Hopefully, we will have more of these kinds of concerts in the future. If you feel like giving Costa’s music a try, he has released two albums: “Songs We Sing” in 2005 and most recently, “Unfamiliar Faces” in 2008. His style channels a positive vibe and is sure to please any listener with its relaxing nature.

This Thanksgiving, skip the parade
JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Arts & Living Editor

When most of us think of holiday movies, films focused on Christmas tend to come to mind. Characters such as the Grinch, Rudolph, and Frosty have become staples in the plethora of yuletide cinema. In honor of Thanksgiving, I thought I would shed light on some holiday movies of a different flavor. So, here you go: a rundown of five Turkey Day movies. Come November 27, sit in front of the couch with one of these flicks and allow the effects of tryptophan to slowly take over your nervous system.

1. “Planes, Trains, and Automobiles” (1987). Though John Hughes remains famous for the Christmas classic “Home Alone,” he manages to dip into Thanksgiving with this film. Steve Martin and John Candy star. Martin plays the part of Neal Page, a man desperate to get home for Thanksgiving. Page’s flight is canceled, and he must resort to other forms of transportation. All his travel endeavors, however, are complicated by Del Griffith (Candy), an annoying shower curtain ring salesman who just won’t leave Neal alone. A hilarious comedy, that one is appropriate enough to watch with grandma and your five-year-old cousin.

2. “Best in Show” (2000). Ok, so this one has nothing to do with Thanksgiving, but it’s a lot more entertaining than the actual dog show that airs on television after the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade is over. As wonderful as it is to watch Pomeranians parade around a carpeted ring, it’s much more satisfying to watch the whole spectacle satirized. And “Best in Show” does the job. The movie takes the form of a mockumentary and profiles several dog trainers. We learn of each person’s odd quirks and bizarre compulsions while having a few laughs along the way.

3. “Pieces of April” (2003). In between “Dawson’s Creek” and marrying Tom Cruise, Katie Holmes played a cute and quirky girl struggling to live on her own. April (Holmes) desperately wants to bring her divided family together for Thanksgiving, including her dying mother. Life in the Lower East Side of New York proves difficult for April, and when the big day arrives, her oven breaks. She wants to impress her family, so she frantically searches for a neighbor with oven space to spare. This poignant film will leave you counting your blessings.

4. “Home for the Holidays” (1995). Holly Hunter stars in this movie directed by Jodie Foster. Hunter plays Claudia Larson, a woman who is about to face the holidays with her eccentric family. Larson doesn’t want to face her family because she has just been fired from her job and made out with her former boss. On top of all this, Larson’s daughter has abandoned her to spend Thanksgiving with her boyfriend. This movie contains both comedic and dramatic elements and is sure to appeal to a wide variety of viewers’ tastes.

5. “Miracle on 34th Street” (1947). Though this movie has been remade several times (most recently in 1994 with a young Mara Wilson), I remain a loyal fan of the original. The film opens on Thanksgiving Day in New York City, as Doris Walker (Maureen O’Hara) hurries to find a replacement Santa Claus for the parade. Kris Kringle (Edmund Gwenn) steps in to play an extremely realistic Santa and ends up having quite an impact on the beliefs of Walker’s daughter. As the movie goes on, questions of belief and faith arise. This movie provides the perfect segue to Christmas.

Tired of watching enormous inflatable cartoon characters float down the street? Had enough of B-list pop stars lip-syncing to Christmas songs from atop tacky floats? Then cut yourself a second slice of apple pie and enjoy one of these Thanksgiving Day-themed films.