. ARTS & LIVING THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2008

Warner’s “navy shower” challenge cleans up
By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

Last October, a member of Warner Hall Eating House eagerly proposed a two-week, house-wide challenge to replace their daily showers
with shorter “navy-style” showers and observe the impact on water conservation. Responding in large part to the campus-wide “Real Talk”
poll issued earlier last semester, which reflected an overwhelming amount of concern for environmental issues, Warner SGA representative Danielle Lokaj
’09 initiated this challenge exclusively for the members of Warner. Her primary goal was to raise awareness of the drought
and to show how a simple change in lifestyle can make a difference.

The inspiration for the shorter shower.

Citizens, artists collaborate
By Cara WOODROOF
Staff Writer

The quaint or, as we’ve been dutifully instructed, hip and historic town of Davidson will soon be decorated with unique
sculptures and works of art that will both beautify the area and encourage residents to contemplate the town’s history and
values. Davidson’s Public Art Task Force is currently hard at work planning a great public art project created by reviewing
the ideas of nine design teams. These teams include students and staff members of Davidson College, as well as town
residents and students ranging from elementary school to college years.

Dave Malushizky and Rob Richardson, members of the local architectural firm known as the Lawrence Group, suggested installing a piece
at the Ada Jenkins Center. The project would include beautiful colored mosaic tile planters surrounding the building. The tiles would
depict milestones in the center’s history. The team envisions that the completed project would celebrate black culture and help maintain
awareness of the black community located on the West side of town.

In addition, Davidson’s planning and urban development committee is considering Dunnill’s sculpture entitled ‘Knuckle.’

Sudsy fun in the navy shower

The members divided themselves up according to hair color, creating the brunette, blonde, and redhead teams. For the next two
weeks, each girl consciously shortened their shower times and ideally reached “navy” standards of using soap and water only when
necessary and turning off the water for the rest of the time. This type of shower lasts about two minutes.
Throughout the challenge, each girl kept a log of shower times. After the two weeks ended, the total percentages of
“navy” showers per team reflected their overall success. The brunettes won the challenge at 70 percent, while redheads came in
at a close 70 percent. The blonde team made a great effort at 63 percent. The winning team received $3
Summit gift certificates, while the other teams received various consolation prizes.

These results show that we can make a dramatic and positive difference for the environment simply by shortening our total
shower times. In fact, by reducing a 10-minute shower to two minutes, you can save 56,000 liters of water, or
15,000 gallons, per year. Reflecting upon her own experience, Lokaj said, “At first it was hard to turn off the
water when I didn’t need it, but then it became a habit. I realized that I was helping to save
the environment, and I felt great about it.”

The majority of Warner Hall’s community service projects focus on planning activities and fundraisers for AIDS/HIV awareness and prevention. Their
shining annual event is the ever-popular Red and Black Ball, where the money generated by tickets, shirts, and refreshments goes
directly to helping organizations devoted to the treatment, prevention, and awareness of AIDS/HIV. Given that Warner’s shower challenge was a
much more intimate experience than attending the ball, Lokaj said, “We have talked about doing another challenge like this, maybe
even involving other houses or fraternities. Small competitions like these are easy to do and obviously make a difference.” Equally
important, the girls enjoyed a bonding experience that arose simply from altering their shower habits.laughed, “The girls had a great
time. They shared stories and joked around, and a popular theme was how shaving their legs proved to be really
hard.”

An example of Dunnill’s curious and intriguing style of sculpture. Design staffs envision a transformation of the area between the
CVS building and the town’s library on Main Street into “A Main Street Book Garden.” Artwork would include a mosaic
tile path, a drinking fountain shaped like a worm, and a short wall sculpted to resemble books on a shelf.
The project, like many of the other proposals, will have historical and moral significance for the community. In this instance,
“A Main Street Book Garden” will demonstrate the town’s devotion to education. Davidson community planning assistant Sandy Kragh said, “We
wanted it [the “Book Garden”] to become a place where people can pause, think, and enjoy Davidson.”

Another design group proposed constructing a walking bridge on Main Street to connect Davidson and Cornelius. Other groups proposed smaller-scale
ideas, which included various street paintings and iron sculptures made from railroad tracks.

Whether you cut down your shower time for a week or make a life-long decision to find other ways to
conserve water, small changes of habit are completely feasible. More importantly, even the smallest adjustments in your daily lifestyle have
a direct and positive impact on the environment. Contact Lokaj at dalokaj@davidson.edu with questions or comments, or if you would
like a blank shower log.

In addition to your new navy showers, here are some other ideas to conserve water: Save your laundry for a
full load. And don’t be afraid to wear something more than once! If you hand-wash dishes, rinse in a reservoir
instead of in running water. Or reuse rinsing water to feed your indoor plants. Save electricity. Enjoy natural light when
you can, and wear a sweatshirt inside. Power plants consume vast quantities of water in their daily operations. Buy less
stuff. Manufacturers may consume dozens of gallons of water producing even one commercial item or article of clothing. Turn off
the water when brushing your teeth and shaving. Buy and use high-efficiency washers.

Each design team presented its proposal to a select group of residents. The Task Force then held various receptions at
Davidson’s Town Hall, both to introduce the concepts and artists and gather funding for the projects. One of the receptions
took place at the Davidson College Visual Art Center on Dec 6th. At this reception, the Artist-In-Residence for the Task
Force, internationally renowned sculptor Andrew Dunhill, delivered a speech in which he discussed both public art sculptures and his own
works. The majority of his pieces are large sculptures constructed of cast iron and steel; however, his artistic repertoire also
includes drawings and works in other media. In late January or early February, Dunhill will deliver a final proposal for
the public art project to the Davidson Town Board Commissioners.

When he is not developing his latest sculpture or drawing, Dunnill serves as an Associate Professor of Fine Art at
the University of North Carolina at Greensboro. Respect for his talent reaches across the United States, and he is well
known both within and outside of artistic circles. Dunnill’s works have been exhibited in various venues ranging from the Sculpture
Center in New York to the Navy Pier in Chicago and Franconia Sculpture Park, Minnesota. More recently, he was featured
in a one-person exhibition at the Southeastern Center for Contemporary Art in Winston Salem.

The art proposals are currently on display at the Town Hall until the end of January and will remain on
display into early February. If you would like to attend one of the Task Force’s receptions, would like more information
about the Davidson Public Art Task Force, or have comments or questions, contact Pamela Mahony at pphm@mindspring.com.
