i 4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Kate GILLESPIE
Staff Writer

At last Thursday’s SGA meeting, senators debated an emergency Activities Tax Council (ATC) allocation to Building Tomorrow and SGA’s financial support of CAT-TV. Outgoing ATC chair Will DeLoache ’09 and incoming chair Robert Lassiter ’09 presented the request for the emergency allocation. Building Tomorrow, a student organization attempting to raise $30,000 to build a school in Uganda, co-sponsored a benefit concert with Rusk House on March 14 to raise additional funds. Due to miscommunication between concert coordinators, Rusk ultimately did not contribute as much money as Building Tomorrow had expected. Building Tomorrow asked ATC for $500 to cover technical costs from the concert.

Several senators, including Kate Sternstein ’09 and Meikaela Zwierynski ’10, expressed concern that, as a result of the allocation, other student organizations would expect ATC to compensate for their own financial mistakes. “Miscommunication was something they could have worked through,” Zwierynski said. “I am worried about setting a precedent.” According to DeLoache, ATC often aids organizations with financial difficulties. “You run into organizations all the time that have this problem,” DeLoache said. “If you didn’t give them the money, then they’d run into debt, and we’d have to pay off that debt.”

Other senators did not want ATC to donate money to the fundraising efforts of student organizations. DeLoache, however, said that ATC often gives money to enable organizations to hold fundraising events. “We provide some money to put on events that raise money,” DeLoache said. “We don’t allow our money to be given as donations, but we do give money for fundraisers.” Ultimately, the senators decided that the amount of money requested by Building Tomorrow was not large enough to warrant denial of the allocation. ATC gives away $150,000 per academic year and currently has $30,000 to distribute. Arthur Etchells ’08 said that SGA should follow the ATC’s recommendation to approve the allocation because “ATC does a phenomenal job of judging” where to allocate money. A majority of senators approved the allocation.

SGA Treasurer Nicolas Cisneros ’09 then asked senators whether they thought SGA should continue funding CAT-TV. CAT-TV encompasses only Channel 2, the TV Guide channel. RLO currently funds Channel 3, the movie channel. CAT-TV, which currently costs SGA $2,400 a year, was supposed to have been funded by student advertising on the top half of the screen. Last year, outgoing treasurer Blake Poole ’08 could not locate enough sources of advertising to cover costs. According to SGA President Davis Greene ’09, “SGA agreed to fund it [CAT-TV] for this year with the stipulation that we find other sources of funding.” Cisneros met with RLO Area Coordinator Jennifer Knox last Thursday to ask RLO to fund CAT-TV. Cisneros said that RLO had “lots of doubts” because the CAT-TV “was meant to pay for itself and, after Blake stepped away from it, no one took over.”

SGA debates budget issues

Some senators did not want SGA to continue funding CAT-TV. “It’s a lot of money to pay,” Duncan Bowling ’09 said. “People aren’t going to quit watching TV if there’s no CAT-TV.” Richmond Blake ’09 disagreed. Blake said that SGA should not refuse to fund CAT-TV.On the basis of a decision made last year, when many of the current senators were not yet a part of the body, Greene said that the debate over funding for CAT-TV was not a “closed conversation” but described last year’s decision as a result of 2006-07 SGA President Mac Skelton’s focus on “policy, not programming.” “Our budget was supposed to reflect that [focus],” Greene said. “We’re not going to take on any pet projects.”

Some senators suggested that SGA search for alternative sources of funding for CAT-TV. Katie Hunter ’08 suggested forming a committee with students interested in the media, such as Austin Bell ’10, the founder of the Davidson Show. Cisneros said that the Davidson Show could possibly run its episodes on the top half of Channel 2. Baker Shogry ’10 suggested that SGA promote the funding of CAT-TV to the Davidson Show as a way for the production to increase its exposure and influence on campus.

The conversation about CAT-TV was part of a larger conversation about SGA’s proposed budget for 2008-09. The major changes to this year’s budget are the replacement of CAT-TV with a $3,000 committee fund and an increase in funding to the senior class from $500 to $2,000. The proposed committee fund is intended to help committees that do not have funds specifically allocated to them by the budget. According to Greene, Whitney White’s ’08 Academic Policy committee needed funds this year to promote its committee but had to draw from the Special Projects Fund. “It [the committee fund] is an incentive to committees,” Greene said. “If you’re more involved, you get more money.”

The increase in funds for the senior class is intended to help the senior class officers more effectively host events for the senior class. The senior class officers are expected to plan a party for the night before graduation, but Greene said that they used all their funds this year on postage to solicit donations from parents.

Some senators questioned why Cisneros had only allocated $1,500 for special projects. Greene said that, because the basketball team would only play one game in Charlotte next year, SGA did not expect to have to pay for many buses for athletic events. Blake wanted more money to be allocated for special projects to allow SGA to co-sponsor campus events. “By giving money and signing on as the SGA, that carries a significance,” Blake said. According to Greene, SGA no longer envisions itself in a co-sponsoring role. “We don’t do that [co-sponsor] anymore,” Greene said. “That was kind of a publicity stick. In the eyes of the administration last year, we became kind of a mini ATC. If there’s going to be an event, we go ahead and let the ATC fund it.”

Greene asked that senators limit their conversation on the budget at next week’s meeting. Senators will vote on whether to approve the budget at this meeting.