6

Tre Davipsonian

Sara Bareilles, from page 5

comes frenetic, channeling other artists such as John Mayer, Jason Mraz, Jack Johnson, Maroon Five, and even Alicia Keys; however,
Bareilles still delivers an all-around satisfying performance, with lush backing vocals and an array of acoustic and electrical instruments. About
mid-album, the mood interestingly shifts to a deeper and more heady tone. “Vegas” and “Morningside,” both pensive and seductive, are
reminiscent of work by the queen of melancholy, Fiona Apple. Bareilles continues down a serious vein with the nostalgic “City,”
only to round out the album with a once-more laid-back, pleasant ballad “Gravity.” One can even detect some rich jazz
notes in “Many the Miles,” which kicks up the beat toward the song’s end. Featured on piano in every song
save “Many the Miles,” Bareilles rocks out on versatile.

Singer/songwriter Sarah Bareilles firmly established herself in the music world with her album “Little Voice.”

Dance, from page 5

emphasized the cultural connection between the dancers and the music. Bandanas and flannel shirts set the stage for the western
saloon. The bright colors worn by the dancers of the group Salsa performance created a beautiful image as the dancers
moved across the stage. As impressive as the dances were, they would not have been such a success if it
were not for the dramatic light work by the technical staff. One performance began with only the silhouettes of the
dancers and then transformed into a projection of their shadows. The lights in this dance emphasized the dancers’ movements and
added an element of the unknown. In “Shape of My Heart,” “Tango Passion,” “Havana Nights,” and “Got Salsa,” the lighting
enhanced the harmonious, and sometimes sexual, connection between the dancers. A moon surrounded by stars was projected.

DIA hosts film festival

FELIX FABINY
Guest Writer

Tired of watching “Mean Girls” and “Legally Blonde?” Davidson International Association (DIA) is hosting the Second International Film Festival at
Davidson and screening some of the best international films of our decade. The Festival began on Sunday with the screening
of “In the Mood for Love,” a 2000 Hong Kong film by Wong Kar-Wai. After a brief introduction to the
film by Chinese professor Vivian Shen, the audience entered the lyrical world of Chow and So, the protagonists of the
work. The Festival in the 900 Room continues on Nov. 12 at 8 p.m. with the screening of “Once,” an
Irish production about an aspiring musician and a young Czech immigrant that the Chicago Tribune’s critics called “the best music
film of our generation.” On Sunday, Nov. 16, two international masterpieces will hit the Davidson Big Screen. At 5:30 p.m.,
DIA will screen the Oscar-nominated “Water,” an Indian film about the plight of widows sent to an ashram in Varanasi.
Director Deepa Mehta’s vision of the widows’ lives, like Fazal Sheikh’s “Beloved Daughters” exhibition in the Van Every/Smith Galleries, presents
the unspoken suffering of women that are often unknown. At 8 p.m. Nimrod Antal’s 2003 cult creation, “Kontroll,” will take
viewers into the dark and enigmatic imagination of Budapest’s metro ticket inspectors. Set entirely in the Hungarian capital’s subway system,
“Kontroll” will take you on an unforgettable ride. Although the films are anchored in seemingly alien cultures, they all bring
to life universal tales of love, loneliness, and intrigue — for free.

Jim's career-long track record of achieving successful results for his clients has earned him recognition throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been representing clients who have suffered substantial injuries due to another person's
negligence for almost 30 years.Named to the Best Lawyers in America publication consistently for the past 23 years and was
recently named as one of the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina. As a former NC Court
of Appeals Judge, Jim Pullers is a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the state for his commitment to justice
and his exceptional litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience, he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people
who have been injured by the negligent or criminal conduct of others. Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker
Cove and attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A member of the Lives Club, Jim also serves on the boards
of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and was recently appointed to the Town
Planning Board.

APPEALS + BANKRUPTCY + BUSINESS LAW COLLECTIONS + ESTATE PLANNING

Exceptional Attorneys.... Close to Home
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill)
Davidson, NC 28036 * (704) 892-1699 * www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of
the law including contract preparation and review, residential and commercial closings, land development and acquisition as well as zoning. Sandy
is licensed to practice before all state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia. In addition to his many
responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community. Sandy, a Davidson native, and his
wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served
many years as a commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town of Davidson committees, he is
a member of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & AM. and has
coached youth football, basketball, and baseball in the Davidson, Cornelius, and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION * PERSONAL INJURY REAL ESTATE * WILLS & TRUSTS

utility and a Fender Rhodes in “Morningside” and even picks up an acoustic guitar in “One Sweet Love.” Beautiful, independent
yet demure, her songs address what it means to be a modern female artist. Her corpus has a consuming quality,
and her words poignantly lyrical, yet she maintains a definite coolness and detachment. Bareilles’s music lacks the frustration that can
accompany any stage in a relationship, although several songs are laced with disappointment. Overwhelmingly, however, her music gives one a
sense of grounded self-awareness. In “One Sweet Love,” for example, she sings, “The time that I’ve taken, I pray is
not wasted.” The song shifts the emphasis from falling in love to remaining true to yourself. For those who carefully
follow Bareilles, however, there is a caveat emptor: some of the songs featured on the album were pre-recorded off her
2004 “Careful Confessions” album. However, the most recent versions are vastly improved, more intimate and contain new instrumental work. All
in all, the album is a success. If you are looking for the newest revolution in piano pop, well, this
album will not fit the bill. But if you are in the mood for something well-crafted and bittersweet, then “Little
Voice” offers more than most pop albums.

projected onto the curtain during “Havana Nights.” This created a strong mood for the rest of the dance. The dancers
in “Control It Gal” utilized strobe lights to make their Reggaeton movements seem even faster. Throughout the performance, avid and
enthusiastic encouragement erupted from the crowd as students cheered on their friends. “The show had so much energy around it,”
Berry said. “It [was] very exciting.” With the dancing, music, costumes, and lights, I could not agree more.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2008

avocado sushi roll, topped with white, Fuji Roll)
