THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2008

Gandhi ahead of his time on key issue

ANJAN MUKHERJEE
Perspectives Editor

Leonardo Da Vinci is considered to be ahead of his time in terms of the designs he was making during
his lifetime. During the Enlightenment period, he came up with rudimentary designs for helicopters, bridges that were considered too ridiculous
to fathom, musical instruments, and many other inventions that were later considered essential to industrialization. According to a Time article
by Daniel Levy, one of Leonardo’s supposedly crazy designs for a monumental bridge was finally constructed in 2006, spanning a
part of the Bosporus Strait known as the Golden Horn.

Like the great thinker da Vinci, whose ideas transcended generations, one man held thoughts on nature and climate change that
have proven prophetic for more than a century. Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi is perhaps most famously known for leading India to
independence from Great Britain through nonviolence. He applied much of his methods to another subject about which he was rather
passionate — preserving the very planet he inhabited. Think about the concept of non-violence, not just in terms of conflicts
between people, but conflicts involving Mother Nature as well.

Peter Applebome wrote in The New York Times that Gandhi’s nonviolent methods involved “intention wedded into action, focus leading to
carry-through, evolution resulting from perseverance and discipline.” He championed the use of satyagraha (also the name of a Philip Glass
opera about Gandhi’s life), which preached civil disobedience as a method of resisting oppression. Anybody with half a brain would
agree that climate change occurs. Any reasonable person would acknowledge that although Earth experiences cyclical climate, clear evidence points to
human activities as a major contributor to global warming.

Where does Gandhi fit into all of this? Many argue that his philosophies on satyagraha can be applied to solving
the conflict of global warming. Applebome suggests that dealing with climate change requires the “same kind of collective will, shared
destiny, moral purpose, personal responsibility and strategic acumen” that Gandhi preached during his lifetime. Perhaps Philip Glass connects the dots
best when he states, “environment and nonviolence is like a marriage made in heaven... if we treated the environment with
nonviolence we wouldn’t have the polar ice cap melting away.” Gandhi, it seems, shared his sentiments many years before Glass
made his statement.

Gandhi’s writings show that he was passionate and outspoken about the planet. He said that the earth “provides enough to
satisfy every man’s needs but not every man’s greed.” He truly understood that we should not abuse the Earth, as
we seem to be doing today. He also warned that if India became an industrialized nation and took to “similar
economic exploitation, it would strip the world bare like locusts.” Fast forward to present day, and we’re faced with environmental
problems that are seemingly caused by human greed and industrialization.

Nobel laureate and former vice-president Al Gore, whose documentary “An Inconvenient Truth” provides cold, hard evidence of humans’ part in
global warming, took to the ideals of Gandhi when he suggested that fighting global warming can only occur if we
take the time to put in motion the ideas that are in our heads. Far too often in today’s world,
we are easily distracted from the real issues at hand by seemingly petty things. Applebome warns of “too many diversions,
too murky and vaporous a peril, too little sense of urgency and an enemy that is more us than them.”

Mahatma Gandhi’s birthday (Oct. 2) has just passed us. Recently, the United Nations unanimously declared Oct. 2 as International Day
of Nonviolence. Take a moment to consider the impact that Gandhi has forever made on the world. Think about the
concept of nonviolence not just in terms of conflicts between people, but conflicts involving Mother Nature as well. Let us
all take heed to his ideals, and collectively act to fight global warming by not only acknowledging it, but also
appropriately confronting it.

Anjan Mukherjee ’09 is a music major from Chevy Chase, Md. Contact him at anmukherjee@davidson.edu.

Deficit far from most pressing issue

ZEKE WEBSTER
Guest Writer

In the first presidential debate last week, Jim Lehrer asked John McCain and Barack Obama a question that neither seemed
prepared to answer honestly: what campaign promises would the candidates not be able to deliver on, seeing as the impending
$700 billion bailout of Wall Street just blew another hole in the federal budget? Both candidates offered non-answers, and Gwen
Ifill asked the vice-presidential candidates the same question in their debate. Unfortunately for the country, both moderators assumed that, in
a time of record deficits and a looming recession, responsible politicians must cut back on spending and tax cuts in
order to balance the budget.

They are right to be concerned about the national debt, which is nearly $10 trillion. This is a serious problem
— and we do need to eventually find our way back to the fiscal sanity of the Clinton years —
but it is not the most serious problem that we face, and we’ll do ourselves no favors by putting everything
else on hold. For one, reducing the deficit flies in the face of economic thought. It is all but certain
that we are about to enter a recession, and the government’s role is to mitigate its effects. That means deficit
spending to keep workers employed, keep consumers spending, and keep people in their homes. Cutting back and reducing the deficit
now will only exacerbate our economic troubles.

Barack Obama, who is now the clear favorite to win the election, must deal with healthcare reform and global warming
first and worry about the debt later. Neither of these issues can wait four more years. The rising cost of
healthcare is the biggest long-term threat to the federal budget and is also the biggest threat to the financial stability
of American families. While social security’s supposed fiscal crisis is a constant refrain of pundits, its problems pale in comparison
to Medicare and Medicaid, programs that are rapidly becoming unaffordable just as the care they provide is becoming unaffordable to
individuals. If nothing is done, medical inflation will drive these programs from around 3 percent of GDP today...to around 15
percent in 2050, an unaffordable increase for a program that ensures access to care for millions of Americans that would
go without otherwise. A universal healthcare system will give us a way out. Such a system will reduce administrative costs,
allow for the implementation of cost-saving measures such as electronic medical records, and rearrange the system’s incentive structure to slow
cost growth. In fact, the parts of the current system that most closely resemble a universal system have experienced slower
cost growth, and European countries with universal healthcare all provide care much more cheaply than the United States. Such a
reform will mean greater government expenditures in the short run, however, and President Obama will need to tolerate deficits or
raise taxes to pull it off. Worrying about debts today will bankrupt us tomorrow if it makes us ignore healthcare.
As with healthcare, we must incur costs now so that we do not find ourselves confronting insoluble problems later.

Global warming will also not wait. The scientific consensus on this point is now undeniable. If we do not start
dramatically reducing our carbon emissions, the unacceptable increases in the earth’s temperature will be unavoidable. Unfortunately, such reductions will be
slow even if we begin now, and sharper, more painful reductions will be necessary if we wait longer. What’s more,
the longer we wait, the longer Americans will have to live with high gas prices in an economy designed around
cheap energy. As with healthcare, we must incur costs now so that we do not find ourselves confronting insoluble problems
later.

As worrying as our debt is — $4 trillion of which comes courtesy of George W. Bush — responsible leaders
must be able to see which problems are urgent, and which are not. We’ve lived with huge, Republican-created deficits before;
we can again for a little while longer. What we can’t live with is an unreformed healthcare system full of
unsustainable cost growth, an unmitigated recession, or a ruined environment. If we’re lucky, Barack Obama will realize this, and he
won’t listen to the Jim Lehrers of the world that put the deficit ahead of everything else.

Zeke Webster ’09 is a political science major from Clemmons, N.C. Contact him at zewebster@davidson.edu.

---

Hopes rest on Palin

The McCain campaign needs to understand that their only way to the White House is on the back of Gov.
Sarah Palin. Either she catapults them past Nov. 4, or McCain stays in the Senate. Thus they need to do
their utmost to maximize her abilities. This does not mean interviews with Katie Couric or Charles Gibson. Why put Palin
on those shows? Few respect Katie Couric or Charles Gibson, hence the reason their ratings are spiraling downwards. They read
from a teleprompter each night, which means what? Are they imbued with any more knowledge than you or me?

For example, when Katie Couric interviewed Joe Biden he gave the following response to a question about leadership: “When the
stock market crashed, Franklin D. Roosevelt got on the television and didn’t just talk about the, you know, the princes
of greed. He said, ‘Look, here’s what happened.’” Couric then responded in the form of a voice-over, “Relating to the
fears of the average American is one of Biden’s strong suits.” Granted, you cannot really fault her for not knowing
that FDR was neither the President at the time of the crash nor was there television, when a possible vice-president
is equally ignorant. The oddest part of the whole story is that the interview was edited. What does that say
when no one at CBS caught Biden’s ignorance? It is one thing to miss the timeline of FDR’s presidency, but
a television station not knowing about the timeline of television—that is shameful.

The McCain campaign should have asked themselves what they were hoping to gain by putting her on these shows. Did
they really think that the Obama groupies in the media would give her a fair roll of the dice? Did
they really think that the same media that has ignored Obama’s ties to terrorists and haters of America would not
try to embarrass Palin? The best she could have done was come out even, maybe even escape with a black
eye, but if the McCain campaign thought that they would win over voters by having her on these shows they
were sorely mistaken.

Since her vice-presidential address at the Republican National Convention, the McCain campaign has mishandled her. For several weeks Rush Limbaugh
has been telling McCain to “Free Sarah Palin”—the man behind the golden microphone is right. Palin does best with the
people. She has the ability to connect with the people of God and guns in a way Obama, Biden, and
even McCain could never even dream of. This country wants to see Sarah Palin and Sarah Palin alone. This is
evident when you realize that over 37 million people watched her vice-presidential convention speech and over 60 million people watched
her debate Biden. That 60 million was not there to see Biden. They have already seen enough and rejected him.
No one wanted him in 1988 and no one wanted him in 2008, which is why no one cares that
he could be the next vice-president.

This past week the McCain campaign has apparently listened to the calls of “Free Sarah Palin.” She has rightly begun
to go on the offensive to expose the Obama campaign. My favorite offensive move came in a post-debate interview on
Fox News: “Some of his comments that [Barack Obama] has made about the war that I think may — in
my world — disqualify someone from consideration as the next commander in chief. Some of his comments about Afghanistan and
what we are doing there supposedly — just air raiding villages and killing civilians. That’s reckless.” This is what the
country needs to hear. From the mouth of a hockey mom turned vice-presidential candidate, these truths are resounding.

Bobby DesPain ’11 is undeclared. He is from St. Louis, Mo. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.
