8 _ On-Campus Housing

Housing inequity exists on this campus. That is no great secret; just ask anyone living down the hill whether they
actually enjoy not having sinks in their small, cinder-block rooms. While some may enjoy the marginal benefit of super-clusters, most
students would highly disagree with Patty Perillo’s claim at a past SGA meeting that, “There have been no complaints from
down the hill.” What Perillo may have meant was that there have been no officially lodged complaints from students, and
if that is the case, it is time for students to become more vocal about their sentiments.

The administration is by no means ignorant of the housing situation, and we are well aware that it can only
tackle one project at a time. However, if Duke is any example of what to expect from future renovation projects,
we remain skeptical. When fall semester started, Duke’s renovations were hurriedly finished. Now, the basement floods, paint jobs were shoddy,
and there’s no first-floor exit on one side of the building.

Themed halls in Duke are another way this campus has attempted to update housing options, but here too arises a
problem. If students apply to live in themed halls because of the superior housing rather than commitment to the theme,
it eradicates the purpose behind having such options. To some extent, there must be an improved process from last year,
when students were granted permission based on lottery numbers. The application process needs to include accountability for genuine interest and
dedication.

Another issue raised by a student living in Duke this year is the unity of the themed halls versus the
Eco-house. In order to truly build a community, one option may be to offer themed houses instead of halls. In
a dorm setting, the opportunity to form a cohesive group is less plausible. Another oft-raised issue is the sub-free hall
of First Belk. Let's be honest: not everyone signs up because of an abhorrence of loud, drunken hall mates. Belk’s
highly appealing location, rooms, and bathrooms are awarded to the highest lottery number. If the purpose of this hall is
to provide alternative living, that hardly seems the way to accept.

For those freshmen about to experience their first round of housing lottery, make sure to be as informed as possible
about your options. If you end up in the sophomore slum, at least you'll be in good company.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl

Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Katherine Miller

News Editors
Alissa Curran & Chris Moore

Perspectives Editors
Laura Nan Oudenaren & Matt Petit

Arts & Living Editors
Peter Errington & Caroline Wood

Yowl Editors
Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Patrick McArdle

Photography Editor
Ben Ellinor

Copy Editor
Gretchen Hoffman

Business, Advertising, and Circulation Manager
Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Jamie Hofmeister

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182, Phone (704) 894-2148. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are
located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not
necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2008

DesPain’s attacks on McCain irrational
ZACH BENNETT
Guest Columnist

Last week, Bobby DesPain joined the conservative popular press’ futile attacks on John McCain’s conservatism. These attacks impugn McCain’s conservatism
based not on his overall record but on particular issues. Comprehensively considering his record leads to different conclusions than those
of DesPain.

McCain often suffers criticism for his opposition to the Bush tax cuts of 2001 and 2003. When he ran for
president in 2000, he proposed a smaller tax reduction as an alternative to President Bush’s because he believed, prophetically, that
the budget surplus would not sustain larger tax reductions. Regardless of his proposal’s relative merits, he justified it on conservative
grounds. Granted, McCain also argued against the tax cuts because he believed they unfairly favored the wealthy. Although conservatives rightly
find this class-based antagonism troubling, it is inconsistent with his near-total opposition to tax increases throughout his career. Consistent with
this record, he has pledged to make the Bush tax cuts permanent, reduce corporate taxes and require a three-fifths congressional
majority to raise taxes.

In contrast to many congressional Republicans, McCain has a nearly impeccable history of advocating reductions in government spending. Often lonely,
he opposed the expansion of the federal government under George Bush by voting against the 2002 Farm Security Bill, the
2003 Medicare prescription drug plan and the 2005 Highway Bill. McCain has crusaded against pork-barrel spending and subsidies. Even in
Iowa, he pointedly expressed his opposition to ethanol subsidies. He pledged to veto any bill that includes an earmark. Because
government spending benefits some, opposing it requires political courage. In opposition to such spending, McCain has demonstrated such courage; accordingly,
he addresses the insolvency of Social Security and Medicare.

McCain has also drawn criticism for his commitment to combat global warming. Acknowledging the overwhelming evidence substantiating global warming is
neither conservative nor liberal. He supports cap-and-trade, which limits carbon emissions through the free market. Yet, McCain is no fanatic;
he supports nuclear power and opposed the Kyoto Protocol.

Social conservatives also have irrational reservations about McCain. He has a consistent pro-life voting record. Although he opposes a Constitutional
banon homosexual marriage, based on federalism, he supported such a ban to Arizona’s constitution. Often criticized for his membership in
the “Gang of Fourteen,” that collaboration allowed for the confirmation of conservative jurists including Samuel Alito. Conservatives also criticize McCain
for supporting comprehensive immigration reform. Like his critics, he sets a secure border as his priority. Unlike them, he comprehends
the impossibility of deporting 12 million illegal immigrants. Consequently, he supports a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants. Though his
position may not accord with conservatism, it does accord with reality.

On foreign policy, McCain has exhibited more courage than most politicians. Soon after Saddam Hussein’s overthrow, he recognized that America
could not succeed in Iraq without adopting a counterinsurgency strategy. At the time, McCain faced attacks from Republicans for his
criticism of the administration’s failing strategy. Only years later would President Bush follow McCain’s suggestion by implementing the surge. The
surge’s success has vindicated McCain. He shares Bush’s commitment to defeating Islamic extremism, yet demonstrates a strategic competence Bush lacks.
As president, McCain would fight for liberty and moderation in the Middle East no matter the political cost. More importantly,
McCain’s steadfast support of the surge, despite its unpopularity, demonstrates that his priorities lie not in his electoral fortunes but
in the national interest. Although John McCain is fundamentally conservative, he is not a purist. More important to McCain than
conservatism is the national interest. For the most part, he has employed conservative policies as a means to this end.
That he occasionally departs from ideology bothers some. But they forget we are electing a national leader, not a national
ideologue.

Zach Bennett ’11 is a Political Science major from Lancaster, Pa. Contact him at zabennett@davidson.edu.

Make the prevention of global warming a priority

CLINT SMITH Guest Columnist

The greatest problem facing our country today is unfortunately the least understood. By definition, global warming is the increase of
the earth’s average temperature over the past century and its seemingly inevitable continuation. While a slow increase in temperature may
not seem like a significant issue right now, the results accompanying this phenomenon are beginning to have dire consequences. Among
these consequences are melting glaciers, extreme weather patterns, and rising global sea levels. To some of you, this may be
the same nonsense you hear every once in a while on the news and then forget a minute later. “Stupid
hippies,” is probably what you’re thinking. But if the glaciers around the world continue to melt at their current rate,
then there could be a grim outcome for low-lying lands across the world. Rising sea levels could lead to long-term
flooding in areas all across the U.S. Eastern and Gulf coasts.

Additionally, while global warming is not the reason hurricanes exist, scientists have discovered that it is the reason they have
been so strong in recent years. This statement is irrefutable. As ocean temperature continues to increase, tropical storms gain more
fuel and energy and are thus more powerful and destructive. What may have been a category two hurricane 50 years
ago may be a category three or four today. An even more disturbing fact is that the droughts brought on
by global warming are responsible for the unusually potent wildfires that have recently occurred throughout California, the Midwest, and our
own North Carolina. Most vexing is that people seem oblivious that human beings are primarily responsible for earth’s rising temperature.
Global warming is a result of carbon dioxide and other pollutants gradually amassing in the earth’s atmosphere. This causes a
thick blanket to trap the sun’s heat, which then warms the earth. The two major human causes of carbon dioxide
production are coal-burning power plants and automobiles. Thankfully, many industries have begun to realize the effect they have on the
environment and have made concerted efforts to engineer cars that burn less gas and plants that run off solar or
electrical power.

As college students, we often think there is nothing we can do, but there are, in fact, numerous ways we
can decrease the frightening pace global warming has taken. Simply turning off the lights, air conditioner, laptop, and Xbox 360
upon leaving a room can make a significant difference in the college’s energy output. The best solution for most of
us, however, is to practice fuel-efficient driving. Every used gallon of gasoline puts 26 pounds of carbon dioxide into the
atmosphere. You can boost the overall fuel efficiency of your car by as much as 30 percent by simple vehicle
maintenance and attention to your driving style. These include avoiding jack-rabbit starts, making sure your tires are properly inflated, using
less air conditioning, employing cruise control, and even making a commitment to drive less. It isn’t necessary to drive to
CVS. Take a walk and enjoy the beautiful weather we’ve been having. Not only will these suggestions help the environment,
but they can also drastically reduce money spent on gas.

Some try to refute climate change by stating that while scientists have indeed shown that some areas of the ocean
have warmed, other parts have become cooler. While this is true, the warm water areas grow every day, outnumbering the
cooler ones. So while many conservatives believe that global warming is an exaggerated myth, there is undeniable evidence that it
affects our world each day. It is important that we do all we can to prevent global warming from getting
worse. Otherwise, we must embrace the fact that a century from now, our children will live in a very different
world.

Clint Smith ‘10 is undeclared. He is from New Orleans, La. Contact him at clsmith@davidson.edu.
