THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2008

The Cunningham Theatre Center may look the same from the outside, but the interior was recently overhauled to reveal a new and innovative space.

CARA WOODROOF
Staff Writer

You probably know that the Cunningham Theatre building has been renovated, but you may wonder what specifically has changed about the building. The answer seems to be just about everything. “Cunningham has been transformed and it is recognizable only from the outside,” Desirée Domo ’09, a theatre major, said.

When entering the building, one immediately notices the bold colors of the walls and furniture. Each classroom and professor’s office has its own unique color. The predominant color, however, is “gooseberry.” This rich burgundy color covers the main hallways and the walls of the new Barber Theatre. Theatre Department Chair Ann-Marie Costa said that the department wanted a color scheme that would say, “We are theatre!”

The renovated building boasts a new main rehearsal room. The new rehearsal room has a large mirror, a screen, and DVD and sound systems. It also includes several other innovations. A spring floor is designed to lessen the impact when an actor falls. The window curtains close at the touch of a button. The room also has sound-insulating doors. Attached to the rehearsal room is a props closet that will actually hold everything, according to Domo.

The building’s interior has been redesigned to maximize space and efficiency. There is now much more space for scene design and construction. Also, all the rooms involved in theatrical productions are connected. Actors can easily walk from the students’ lounge to the dressing room to the stage. “I think we all feel pretty spoiled in the new space,” Steve Foglia ’09 said.

Students and professors agree that the most important change is the addition of the Barber Theatre. Barber holds about 160 seats that can be reconfigured to suit a variety of different productions. Foglia noted that the flexible seating would allow directors to play more effectively with the relationship between audience and actors. Barber also has more adequate swing space, the space behind stage from where props and actors enter. Toward the back of the swing space, there is a wide loading dock door that allows easy entrance of props from outside.

Barber will accommodate plays that would have been performed in the black box theatre, the 900 Room, the Lilly Family Gallery, or Tyler-Tallman Hall. It will allow the theatre department to put on plays that would not have been possible otherwise. The room is not just a theatre, though; it will be a multi-purpose space for teaching, as well.

A production of “Hamlet” will be the Barber Theatre’s debut. The flexible seating will be arranged in a bowling alley configuration, so that the audience will look down on the props and characters interacting in the center. Costa said that Hamlet would “accentuate the virtues” of the new theatre. Props, sometimes carrying actors, will see Renovation, page 6.

Why we “fall” in love with October

PATRICIA REID AND JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Staff Writer and Arts & Living Editor

1. Fall Break
Just make it through midterms and it will all be fine. Head home, commune with nature on a DO trip, the options are endless. Whatever you do, be sure to save time to relax!

2. Parent’s Weekend
Nice to see the folks, and even nicer when they take you out to dinner.

3. Basketball Season Starts Next Month
This might actually be one of the best reasons to love the entire year. Crazy school spirit can brighten anyone’s day!

Among the many things to love about the month of October is the ancient holiday, Halloween. To take part in the festivities, follow Lucy’s example and go bobbing for apples.

4. Halloween Costume Parties
The question is not what you dress up as, but how insane and over-the-top you look while doing it.

5. Halloween Candy
It’s tasty, “fun-sized,” and usually free for the taking.Candy also easily fits into the backpack for late-night library study sessions.

6. Flickerball Tournament & Championship
You may never get this pumped up about a PE credit again...

7. Cool Weather
Less humidity means you might be able to walk up the hill without breaking a sweat.

8. Carving Jack-O-Lanterns
Reminds us of childhood, and, “The Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown.”

9. Fall Foliage
Beautiful to look at, plus they make a great excuse to take a day trip up to the mountains.

10. The Return of Television
With the writer’s strike as last year’s news, all your favorite shows have finally returned this month. Grab the remote and tune in!

LIVING delights
Binging for beauty
Corey BRADLEY
Staff Columnist

Whether their vice is “Sex and the City,” “Gossip Girl” or even romance novels, women often have a guilty fascination with the fabulous lives of unrealistic characters. Women see thin and gorgeous young actresses who party lavishly and have a good time doing it. But, when we watch these characters drink excessively while looking beautiful, women begin to associate the two things together. Alcohol, it seems, will make a woman confident, sophisticated and sexy. Drinking becomes a means not only to have more fun, but also to feel better about the way we look.

Similarly, it is no surprise that many girls say it is not as much fun to go dance at a fraternity or eating house party sober. Drinking often allows women to lose their inhibitions and insecurities, a combination that causes them to feel attractive and flirtatious. On a small campus, it is easy for women to feel that their image is constantly being scrutinized, and the idea of escaping insecurities becomes especially attractive. Drinking before going out lets women forget that they don’t like the way they look in their jeans or that they think their best friend looks better. And the more they drink, the less it seems that other people on the court are judging their appearance. It is the perfect remedy to a poor body image.

However, women feeling like they look better sometimes results in poor judgment. In recent studies done at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Dr. Heidi Hutton found that binge drinking was linked to unsafe sex practices, often leading to the contraction of STDs. The finding was most profound in women. Hutton’s study, according to an article published in the Los Angeles Times, reveals that due to the fact that women have less water and more fat in their bodies, they store alcohol faster and for a more extended period of time. Because of this, women generally feel the effects of alcohol more so than men. This could explain why women are much more likely to experience sexual assault while intoxicated and why women who binge drink have a higher incidence of STDs. Of course, it is easy to ignore these statistics at a small school where everyone is trusted and drinking seems to only make the night better, but as Dr. Hutton’s title reads, “Binge drinking is fun—until the gonorrhea diagnosis.”

There are a few ways, however, for women to be safer about going out but still spend the weekend the way they want. First, it can be helpful to make sure they eat a sufficient dinner prior to going out, since food helps with alcohol absorption. Also, women especially should always have a friend to watch out for them throughout the night. Almost everyone is guilty of making some questionable decisions, and there is always hope that a friend can help prevent mistakes.

In many ways, Davidson’s student group For Loving Yourself (FLY) is focused on preventing eating disorders and raising awareness. However, as the name indicates, respecting and taking care of oneself is an overarching theme. We have to ask ourselves, how does drinking affect Davidson students’ lives? And moreover, how does drinking affect the way we look at ourselves? All students, not just women, need to focus on improving their body image so that

See Binging, page 6