Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

11. The Davinsonian Arts & Living

Florence runs from the hotel. Numerous flashbacks, though confusing, remain unbiased and treat both characters with fairness. The Hibachi dining experience found at Kobe Hero in Cornelius can be a fun and exciting way to enjoy a meal. Just be sure to watch out for the onion volcano!

BEN IRELAND
Staff Writer

Last week my dire craving for Japanese food made me dream of volcanic eruptions of soy sauce, fluttering butterfly shrimp, and little sushies swimming in a scathing Jacuzzi of miso soup. Fortunately, Family Weekend mandated a long-awaited dinner with my folks, and took us on a ten-minute drive to a popular restaurant in Cornelius. Kobe Hero Restaurant, a Korean-owned Japanese restaurant, awaited my presence. At least by the smell that permeated the air, I knew that I was in for a stimulating gastronomic experience.

Kobe Hero Restaurant at Lake Norman, newly renovated, has over 25 years of experience and is conveniently located off the interstate. The moment I walked through the doors, I was surprised to see how modern and clean the interior was. All customers have the choice of sitting either at the Hibachi tables—literally, grill tables on which chefs prepare gourmet delicacies right in front of them—the sushi bar, or the regular seating area. Bear in mind that since the sushi bar is not located in a separate dining room from the regular seating area, those who are intolerant of cigarette smoke would find it more beneficial to dine in the non-smoking Hibachi area.

After taking a table in the regular seating area, I glanced at the variety of luncheon menu selections, ranging from chicken, shrimp, steaks, filets, scallops, and combinations of each. In fact, each choice comes with two sides. Not feeling like eating and paying for a huge filet of steak or...Chicken? Not a problem. The folks at Kobe Hero offer a smaller size portion of meat for a reasonable price. What makes Kobe Hero unique is that they offer well-priced Kobe Beef, a rare delicacy among Japanese restaurants. Senior citizens dining in the Hibachi area have the option of selecting entrées from the senior’s menu. Additionally, there is an incredible selection of exquisite sushi, from the Sea Monster Roll to Avocado Rolls, all creations from 20-year owner and chef veteran, Mr. Hero. Being half-Japanese myself, I am very precise as to how my sushi is made. However, I was extremely impressed with the aesthetic detail that Hero-san put into each piece. One slight drawback: be prepared to wait a good 15 to 25 minutes for your entrée. Rest assured, however, that your meal is cooked with fresh ingredients. I found that a good way to wait for your meal is to savor the ambiance of the restaurant. The dimmed lights and plush booths make an excellent place for dates and birthdays. Tell Mr. Hero that you will celebrate your birthday at his restaurant, and he and the staff will sing you a song, offer you a present, cake, and take a picture. When my steak and shrimp meal finally appeared from the kitchen, I was elated. I bid a happy “adieu” to my meal and devoured it while sipping on the cold jasmine-flavored iced tea. Hedonistic bliss filled my bloodstream as I savored the holy trinity of garlic, ginger, and teriyaki flavors exploding in my mouth. This was one of the best meals I had in a long time. The staff was extremely friendly and the atmosphere so relaxed that my parents and I thoroughly enjoyed our main courses. Kobe Hero, unlike Bonsai, does not accept CatCards and may seem rather pricey for students during dinner hours. My recommendation is to take lunch during the weekday and bring a friend or two to split the cost at dinner. The Hibachi, though pricey, is well worth the preparation tableside.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2008

The task then falls to the reader, who must remember to keep an open mind and resist from judging the protagonists and their very human actions. “On Chesil Beach” is a dark book. The subject matter stays far away from the happy ending the reader may expect from a story. Some dark places...

As that investigation grows, Detective Lester Ybarra (Michael Kelly) becomes a central character and the audience finds a hero in a cop who rises above corruption in a search for the truth. Angelina Jolie gives a stirring portrayal. Her display of emotion and desire is heartbreaking and inspiring. Finally, the truth comes out. Evidence proves that the boy returned to Christine is indeed not her son. She, with the help of Reverend Briegleb and attorney S. S. Hahn (Geoffrey Pierson), launches an enormous civil suit against the police department that results in severe punishment for their corruption and justice for Christine. And whatever happened to Walter Collins? That’s a secret I’ll never tell.