4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Hartwig, from page 4
people living with HIV, 67% were in sub-Saharan Africa, and 75% of all AIDS deaths occurred in Africa. The largest number of infections was among 15 to 24-year-olds, and 60% of those infected were women.

“There is a disproportionate impact to the African continent,” Hartwig said. “The burden of those living with the infection is primarily in Africa despite the spread of the disease to other areas of the world.”

Hartwig then moved on to discuss basic ethical considerations in community-based research. Firstly, researchers must respect the groups and work to ensure that people understand the research program and supply informed consent.

Beneficence involves recognizing structural factors, such as lack of leadership, gaps in health services, poor education, limited legal rights for women, hunger, poverty, and war, that contribute to risk.

“There is a disproportionate impact to the African Continent. The burden of those living with the infection is primarily in Africa despite the spread of the disease to other areas of the world.

-Dr. Kari Hartwig

“We must avoid further marginalization of affected groups by maximizing benefits, minimizing harms, and avoiding coercion,” Hartwig said.

In regards to ethics, researchers must also adhere to distributive justice and equitable selection by joining research, community institution, and resident resources in prevention research and clinical trials.

Doctor Kari Hartwig discussed the ethics and practical research of AIDS and HIV in Africa last Tuesday.

The “sticky question” of access to antiretrovirals (ARVs) in the context of power and politics was also addressed during the lecture.

Hartwig used the example of South Africa’s movement to lower the cost of drugs in the 1990s to illustrate the difficulties that emerge with the distribution of HIV/AIDS medicine. Forty pharmaceutical companies sued the South African government for breaking patent laws when it attempted to enact legislation aimed at reducing the price of ARVs.

The lawsuit was eventually dropped in April of 2001 and the World Health Organization stepped in to introduce its 3x5 program, which aimed to treat three million people by 2005.

Other issues that are emerging with ARV treatment are adherence, food security, the lack of a steady supply of drugs, health system infrastructure, the quality of the drugs, and health worker shortages. Trade-Related Aspects of International Property Rights (TRIPS) involve the question of who can produce generic drugs and original drugs, and at what cost. The problem of the presence of increasing numbers of orphaned children also arises.

“Many of the 25 million people who have died have left behind many young people,” Hartwig said, “In Tanzania, I would meet grandmothers caring for seven or eight children and see families where the seven-year-old boy was the head of the household.”

Today there are 15 million children under the age of 18 in Africa who have lost their parents to HIV/AIDS.

In terms of financing AIDS care and prevention, Hartwig emphasized the need for balance between research, care and treatment, and prevention. “Donor coordination is half the problem. One of the complexities of doing international AIDS work is that everyone wants to get credit,” Hartwig said.

In terms of countries’ bilateral funding, the United States donates the most dollars. But in terms of GDP, we are not as generous as other countries such as Sweden and Ireland.

Hartwig ended her lecture by reemphasizing the themes of “lead, empower and deliver” and “trust, power and hope.”

“Our opportunities for delivering programs and our research are getting better and our leadership is speaking out more than ever,” Hartwig said. “I feel constant hope and empowerment by working with people who are positive, and our efforts thus far are an incredible testimony to what can be done. We all have opportunities for leading and empowering and delivering, and our own challenge is figuring out how we can do that.”

The McIntire Business Institute gives students a taste of the business world in just over 4 weeks. Students will explore the global marketplace while acquiring leadership skills, group work experience, and an edge in the job search process. Taught by world-class professors, the MBI focuses on 5 core concepts: finance, accounting, marketing, management, and information technology.

For more information, visit:

http://www.commerce.virginia.edu/uvambi

UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA