THE DAVIDSONIAN

Broke kid living off samples at Harris Teeter

Something d-o-o economics. Voodoo economics.

SEE PAGE 7

The Pow! Magazine

SWALLOWING GOLDFISH | SEE PAGE 2
Believe it or not: no, cop hasn't read Catch-22

SEE PAGE 2

Could it happen to you?

courtesy photo

Interests: blood, iron, battleships, annexing French provinces, consolidating empires.
Hobbies: Junker Night at the Friedrichsruh bowling alley, Battleship, FIFA 2008. (Too bad you can’t play as Prussia though).
Favorite Book: Toss up between some early Schiller and James Waller’s small masterpiece “The Bridges of Madison County.”
Looking for: Comely aristocratic heiress, preferably of Prussian extraction.

Biggest Regret: The Franco-Prussian War. It was fun at the time, but had some long-term consequences that have kept me
up at night.
“Interests: poetry, philosophy, mysticism, Islamic law, gnosticism, the corrosive effects of “rock and roll.”

Hobbies: Rubik’s Cubes, beard-offs.
Favorite Book: Rushdie... j/k lol!

Looking for: A more subservient Jasmine type to add to my stable.

Biggest Regret: The war with Iraq, a couple of fatwahs, executing the coach of the U-13 Tehran kickers after they
beat my son’s team in a penalty kick shoot-out. That was rash. But I do stand by my decision to
ban rock and roll. Damn the Clash!

Interests: wool felt fedoras, the Ark of the Covenant, cheeky disguises, throwing grown men about.

Hobbies: archaeology, kickin’ Nazi ass
Favorite Book: any and all Hardy Boys

Looking for: That depends on how reasonable we’re all willing to be. All I want is the girl.

Biggest Regret: Falling for that two-timing cow Elsa Schneider. Other than that I’d have to say letting Paramount cast Sean
Connery as my father. I cast my vote for Donald Sutherland.

Your Davidsonian Honor Section

Editors:
James Boswell
Alex Hoyt

Staff Writer:
Anne Stevens

Craving the derelict streets and trashcan fires of his native Chicago: Killian

Overheard at the court:
“Let's just skip the whole dancing thing.”

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

February 20, 2008

Coming Soon: Yowl Magazine* The Yowl Classifieds

*Don’t get your hopes up.

Lost: TI-39

Posted: 2/18/2008 2:15:26 p.m.
Large “arm-sized” calculator lost between Watts and Baker Friday night after completing my econometrics exam. Has black buttons typical of
a calculator. If found e-mail pobeasley.

Found: I-Pod

Posted: 2/17/2008 6:48:43 p.m.
I-Pod discovered in about a million pieces under my car after I pulled out of my spot in Belk lot.
I’m pretty sure it’s black. If it's yours please e-mail jarenfro.

Needed: Spider Monkey Cage
Posted: 2/17/2008 11:23:52 p.m.
Desperately seeking spider monkey cage with dimensions 8x8x4 so it can fit under my bed in Irwin. Please contact thsieracki.

Lost: Diamond Pendant
Posted: 2/17/2008 2:12:41 p.m.
Circa 1850 heirloom diamond pendant lost at either SAE or F sometime after 2 a.m. on Friday night. It's on
a long bronze chain and weighs about 140 grams. If you have it or have seen it, please e-mail me
at inlittle. Thx!

The Davidsonian

2 Tickets to see the Wiggles
Posted: 2/16/2008 8:19:03 p.m.

I just found out I can't go! If you want these *3rd row* tickets, they're yours for $10 off the
box office price ($135 together) or best offer!! Btw the Fraggles are opening!!! E-mail Jenn at jehackly. ;)

Found: Cash

Posted: 2/16/2008 8:56:19 p.m.
Unspecified $$ amount found at unspecified place on campus. Identify where it was and how much, and it’s yours. Otherwise,
tough shit. E-mail hekoffee.

Lost: Jacket

Posted: 2/15/2008 3:29:25 p.m.
Black fleece with hole in the left pocket and the name “Tad Thurman” stitched by the tag. If found, please
e-mail jafulton.

Lost: Bag of “Stuff”

Posted: 2/15/2008 11:49:14 a.m.
Several days (?) back I misplaced a sandwich bag full of “stuff” I got this bag for a “friend” of
mine, for which he gave me some other “stuff.” Your help in the matter would be greatly appreciated. Let me
know. duberry

Local Skateboarder Invents Anderson Cooper 360°

Not often a place where history is made, the YMCA of Greater Charlotte saw one of its brightest young skateboarding
talents launch himself to uncharted heights Sunday.

Twelve-year-old Alex Kowalski of Cornelius changed the sport forever when he threw what he is tentatively calling the Anderson Cooper
360°.

Kowalski, who normally shreds a six-foot half-pipe in his driveway, claims he's been working on the trick for several months
now.
“I've been keeping it to myself for a while,” he said while drinking a Red Bull and rolling a cigarette
on his deck. “I just felt today was the right time to bust it out.”

Mothers shrieked and pre-teen onlookers drooled from their braces when Kowalski acid-dropped fakie into the park's bowl and hit the
kicker going close to 20 mph. The park fell silent when the kid shot out of the bowl, held his
deck with one hand, spun for one full rotation and landed in a 50-50 on a nearby rail.

The trick gets its name not from the motion of the board, but rather from the facial expressions Kowalski was
able to perform while spinning.

Astonishingly poised despite the danger of being 15 feet above solid concrete, Kowalski flashed Anderson Cooper's trademark narrowed eyes, furrowed
brow and pursed lips.

In the coming months, he hopes to add coherent political commentary to his already legendary trick.

“It's just amazing to me how politically savvy the young man is,” YMCA Director Jill Bevins said.
