. ARTS & LIVING THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2008

“Little Eagles” ends 2008 RSC Residency

By Katie MILLER
Managing Editor

This week, Davidson bid adieu to the members of the Royal Shakespeare Company after their month-long residency. The 2008 Residency culminated with last weekend’s performances of “Little Eagles,” the working title of a new play by British playwright Rona Munro. At the Sunday afternoon performance, Roxana Silbert welcomed the audience with a brief recap of the production process and description of what to expect. She explained that the first draft of the play arrived on the first day of the RSC Residency, while the script used in the play was finalized merely four days before Friday’s debut. The program includes an introduction by Dr. Cynthia Lewis, who wrote that “Little Eagles” was an “intellectual and artistic exploration,” which was simultaneously influenced by “the twin processes of writing and producing.” This gave little time for the cast to get the production “up on its feet,” according to Silbert.

The audience was told to expect a two-and-a-half-hour performance plus intermission and “rehearsal room” aesthetics. The actors did use their scripts throughout the performance, but by the time Sunday rolled around, most of the cast recited from memory as often as they consulted their scripts. Some actors were even off-book and able to tuck their scripts in their pants, just in case. Despite the scripts’ presence on stage, it was easy to get lost in the world of the play after a minute’s adjustment period. Some students expressed confusion over the RSC’s choice for this final residency, expecting instead performances like 2002’s “Merchant of Venice.” However, this process gave Davidson students the opportunity for a unique educational experience.

Granted, the performance necessitated that the audience suspend its disbelief to an even greater extent than a regular performance; there were only 10 actors for about 30 roles, requiring the same 10 people to act in different roles for different scenes. Kennedy and Kruschev, shown shaking hands, are characters in “Little Eagles.” As the play was being written, students were allowed to sit in on rehearsals for an in-depth look at the rehearsal process and one of the scenes was brought to the Directing II class where students were able to give input. In addition, a group of theatre students had the opportunity to participate in the ensemble in the production for scenes requiring large groups of people.

The RSC alleviated the audience’s confusion by including a scene-by-scene cast list in the program. “Little Eagles” explores the history of the space race between the United States and Soviet Russia, set in locations ranging from a 1938 Siberian gulag to President Kennedy’s bedroom in the White House.

Teeter disrupts town grocery scene

By JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Staff Writer

The Davidson community celebrated the Grand Opening of the area’s newest Harris Teeter on Tuesday, Feb. 5th. Built in the middle of the “Davidson Commons” development, situated at the end of the appropriately named “Grocery Lane” and just minutes away from campus, the new grocery store is a welcome asset to the town. As early as Tuesday evening, hungry guests began enjoying the festivities and free samples, including an in-store wine tasting and numerous tasty treats. The store features many prepared foods such as pastas, made-to-order subs, sushi, and a soup and salad bar. For a light breakfast or snack, one may browse the tempting and ever-popular freshly baked cookies and pastries located in the bakery section.

Boyce Whitesides ‘11 raved about the notorious free offerings in the bakery section; “The free samples are clutch. I love going to Harris Teeter because they have free sugar cookies, and then all the other wonderful samples. You could almost get a meal with them.” For those with lofty culinary interests, prime cut steaks and fresh seafood abound in the meat and poultry sections, with butchers eagerly waiting to wrap up your choice cut. The store also features a nice variety of fresh produce from around the world, and a reasonably-sized organic and vegetarian section with locally-grown organic fruits and vegetables, as well as soy-, gluten- and meat-free products.

Other offerings in the store include a fully operating pharmacy, aisles of beauty products, and a Starbucks Coffee right inside the entrance. When comparing this Harris Teeter with Cornelius’s Food Lion, many students have to agree that the new store is a definite improvement. Whitesides noticed one interesting improvement apart from the food. “The lighting was bright... much better than the dreary light at Food Lion,” he said.said. After hearing so much excitement about the revered Teeter, I decided to pay the store an honorary visit. When I first walked into the brightly lit 24,000 square-foot store, I was greeted by not one but three employees, all smiling and wishing me a good morning. Immediately impressed, I grabbed a shopping basket and began to stroll around the store. As I meandered my way up and down the aisles, I suddenly wished I had a kitchen so I could cook up extravagant meals with my purchases. Alas, there is no kitchen in Belk, and my cooking skills do not extend much beyond quesadillas and pasta.

Although Harris Teeter met my expectations, for Betsy Lyles ’11, a lifelong resident of Davidson, the Teeter was a bit anticlimactic. “It didn’t live up to my expectations from all the hype that has surrounded it for the past year or two,” she said. “There isn’t anything in this Harris Teeter that makes it better than any of the other ones.”

Another caveat to the new store surrounds the arguably more health-savvy Home Economist. Will the monopolizing Harris Teeter cause the Home Economist to lose business? Maybe, but the Home Economist specializes in organic and health foods, and its selection far outweighs Harris Teeter’s small organic section. The Home Economist also carries a large section of herbal, medicinal, and home remedies that cannot be found at Harris Teeter. Even though the Home Economist is smaller in size and must now compete with a larger chain store, it still offers many things unheard of at Harris Teeter.

As I left the Harris Teeter with my purchases, I realized that the addition of the new store can be viewed in two very different lights. Many complain about Davidson’s land development, and the new Harris Teeter does represent yet another corporate chain that could threaten local businesses, but it also is a worthy addition to the community, offering a wide range of quality foods and a guaranteed quality of service.

Both the American president and Khrushchev appear in the play, but are by no means the main characters; rather, the men and women who act as the brains behind the two nations’ initiatives comprise the bulk of the roles. Munro’s work is especially interesting for an American audience used to viewing the Cold War’s history from the American perspective. In “Little Eagles,” Munro presents both sides in what are at times unflattering perspectives. Kennedy has an affair with a senator’s daughter and Russian soldiers brutally beat a so-called comrade in the play’s opening scene. The play’s already complex series of scenes, places, and time delves into the largely unstudied involvement of women in the space race as well. The personal and emotional stress the powerful players experience forces the audience to question patriotism in both nations.

The most disappointing aspect of the performance was the dismal turnout, especially in comparison to the high demand for tickets at all three productions during the 2007 Residency. Now that the Davidson-RSC contract has ended with Davidson, many wonder what future relationship will exist between the two. At this point, that future is undecided, but President Tom Ross expressed the desire to continue the relationship in some capacity.

This week in arts

Davidson Theatre: This week, the Department of Theatre presents Moliere’s “Scapin.” The show, a musical adaptation by Andrei Belgrader and Shelly Berc, directed by Scott Ripley, will run from Feb. 20-24 in Tyler-Tallman Hall. Performances Wednesday-Saturday will be held at 7:30 p.m., and a Sunday performance will be offered at 2 p.m. General admission is $12; student tickets are $5. Contact Glynis O’Donoghue with questions. Tickets are available in the Union.

Ongoing exhibits

Wood/Painted Wood, an exhibit by critically acclaimed sculptor John Shapiro, will continue to be on display in the Van Every Gallery of the VAC until Feb. 29.

Sacred Steps on the Camino, an exhibit in Alvarez rooms 302 and 313 through Sunday. The event is hosted by the Spanish Department, OLAS, The Friends of the Arts, DIA, the Embassy of Spain, and Xunta de Galicia.

Michael Chabon, author of “Wonder Boys,” “The Mysteries of Pittsburgh,” and “The Yiddish Policemen's Union,” is this year’s Conarroe lecturer. He won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction for his 2001 novel “The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay” and he is the recipient of the O. Henry Award and the National Jewish Book Award. The lecture is at 3 p.m. in the Duke Family Performance Hall. Tickets are free but required. Contact Amy Johnson for more information.