THE DAVIDSONIAN 2008 Vice Presidential Candidates SGA

ALI KARAMI-RUIZ

Hi, I’m a junior from Querétaro, Mexico. I am running for SGA vice president to bring you tangible results. As
vice president, I'll make the SGA more transparent, promote environmental sustainability and reform the S.T.R.I.D.E. program. Despite recent progress, the
student body still feels disconnected from SGA. I plan to bring SGA to you by building a complete website featuring
not only the academic blog but also current and past SGA meetings and a list of all members and positions.
I will work with President Ross and the EAC to continue to strengthen the college’s efforts to become more environmentally
sustainable, through water conservation and curtailing energy use. If we are to best integrate the student body, then we need
to reform the S.T.R.I.D.E. program — beginning with pre-orientation. Though S.T.R.I.D.E. is designed to help minority students adapt to the
Davidson community, pre-orientation in its current form has done the exact opposite. We can improve on a program that predisposes
its participants to associate only with other minority students and furthers the notion that they should be treated differently. As
SGA vice president, I will make our student government more visible, work for environmental sustainability and help us more effectively
learn from each other. I will bring SGA to you.

KJ BLACKWELL

SGA needs an individual that exemplifies hard work at the position of vice president. No one person does that better
than me. I am a religion major, Davidson College football player, economics minor, Davidson Investment Financial Association member, member of
the BSC and community service participant. Therefore, I have an understanding of several different spectrums of the Davidson campus. Not
many candidates can say they are knowledgeable of religious life, social life, academic life, as well as diversity at Davidson.
A candidate needs to be someone that understands a wide variety of individuals so as to hear all concerns. Combine
this knowledge with my hard work and things will get accomplished on this campus. As vice president, I will help
to expand the “Real Talk” sessions implemented by Chris Burton to include concerns brought up by the students. This will
be a great way to hear the problems of the students (the driving force of Davidson College) and therefore make
the necessary compromises. Another way that I intend to vocalize the needs of the students is to have a suggestion
box placed in the Union. My efforts in unison with the SGA President will make SGA (the voice of the
students) a stronger body.

Valid at participating Scoop Shops, Not available at The Arboretum

NEWS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2008 | 3

Union Board

DJ SINGLETERRY

Hello. I’m running for the office of Union Board Vice President. As a proactive member of the Union Board, I
helped to mobilize the student body to participate in campus events through multi-media propaganda. This year, we had our highest
attendance at RSCevents in recent years and brought in new vendors and old hits such as Build-a-Bear and Paint Your
Own Pottery. As vice president, I would look to revamp some of the annual programs under the Special Events budget
like the Campus Christmas party, Casino Night, and Spring Frolics. This year has been a great learning experience, allowing me
to work behind the scenes on some of the larger campus programs and see firsthand what it takes to put
on a memorable event. Next year, if I’m elected vice president, I promise to not only continue and expand weekend
events for all students, but also to encourage the student body’s attendance at open meetings to try and truly get
a picture of the campus’s voice. Thank you for your time. It would be my pleasure to serve you as
Union Board Vice President.

DOUGLAS CLARK-BROWN

I experienced my first movie, “Snow White,” in the 900 Room. While I have no memory of that viewing (and
wish it was something cooler like “Braveheart”), many more memorable firsts have taken place in the College Union. I sat
in Santa’s lap, learned who the Rev. Dr. King was, and shot my first pool. The Union sponsored the first
and some of the best concerts (Dave Matthews, Ben Folds, Black Eyed Peas) I have attended. I owe my appreciation
for the arts to the Union Board’s Artists’ Series. As a student, I have served the Union as 900 Room
Bar Manager and through Davidson Outdoors, the Ticket Office, and Tech Crew. I’m excited about the opportunity to further contribute
my time and talents to this Board in order to serve and represent the diverse interests and perspectives of the
college community. The Union is much more to me than a nostalgic memory. It is a living, breathing body that
has great potential to innovate and serve. As your Union Board Vice President, I will welcome and encourage your input
as we work to fulfill our community’s potential to bring people together.

ALLISON RUHE

So, in case you don’t know me, or even know what the Union Board is... here it goes... My name
is Allison Ruhe (pronounced like kangaroo if you’re wondering!) and I’m running for Union Board Vice President. Maybe you have
seen me handing out Chick-fil-A at After Midnights, driving Santa and Mrs. Claus in the golf cart at the Campus
Christmas Party, or hanging out at the lake campus on the Sunday before school started last semester. Whether you know
it or not, these events were brought to the campus by the Union Board. This year, I have been working
on events such as these as the Union Board Lake Campus Committee Chair and Member-At-Large. My freshman year, I also
was an active member of the Recess committee. I believe that my creativity, motivation, organization, and fun-loving personality make me
a good candidate for the position of Vice President. I promise that as vice president, I will do my best
to bring fun events to campus next year.
