14 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 2008

The last basketball article

By Patrick McArdle, Sports Editor

It’s hard to grasp the end of basketball coverage in this phenomenal basketball year. The avalanche of news media surrounding the Wildcats since the beginning of the fall and through the tournament has been immense. Announcers from across America have (mis)pronounced the name Stephen Curry with excitement, awe, and admiration. And now it is, for the most part, done, and the offseason has begun.

So I will try to provide a few thoughts for the offseason. It might not be enough to satisfy over the spring and summer, but what really could fill that void?

First, let’s talk about this year’s Final Four and Championship Game, if only for a sense of closure. The last two rounds of the NCAA (just like the first four) painted Davidson in the best possible light. Kansas, the team that barely escaped us, went on to win the Final Four. And then they went on to defeat a freakishly athletic Memphis team in the championship game.

It should be self-evident why this turn of events was good for our school. Kansas could not embarrass us; instead of finding themselves up by a 20-point cushion like they did against the Tar Heels, Kansas (as we all saw) found themselves a shot away from an early exit against the Wildcats. As far as any objective viewer could see, Davidson was a more competitive tournament team than UNC (or the long-since forgotten Blue Devils) this year. If before the season anyone had said, “Davidson will outplay UNC and Duke in the tournament,” you would not have been taken seriously by anyone. Now it’s a reality.

Unfortunately for everyone, the season is finished. There are, however, a few important things Davidson needs to remember this offseason in order to honor this spectacular season. The first is keeping Bob McKillop no matter the cost. Deserving winner of many coaching awards this season (see the article on this page), Davidson needs to make sure Coach McKillop stays in this community. While usually I wouldn’t advocate big paydays for coaches when the money could be spent elsewhere, it is more than necessary in this special case. Bob McKillop’s leadership is largely responsible for the class, enthusiasm, and polish of the Wildcat team this season. Every time Jason or Thomas would be interviewed, their smart answers reflected the experience and class of their coach. None of the magic this year has provided would have been possible without Bob McKillop. Therefore, we should not be stingy with Coach McKillop.

Baseball (8-19, 1-8) Track and Field

Bob McKillop rakes in honors

By Mike Frongello, Sports Editor

On Sunday night, Davidson men’s basketball coach Bob McKillop received The UPS Store/National Association of Basketball Coaches (NABC) Coach of the Year at the AT&T/NABC Guardians of the Game awards show at the site of the Final Four in San Antonio. On Monday, McKillop was also honored as the recipient of the Coach Clair Bee Award, which is awarded to a Division I men’s basketball coach who, through his actions on and off the court, makes an outstanding contribution to the sport of basketball. The criteria for the Clair Bee Coach of the Year Award involve actions that inspire, motivate, coach, and educate teams to achieve their fullest potential and demonstrate outstanding character, which McKillop certainly did this season in leading Davidson to one of its best seasons in school history.

The awards come one week after McKillop led Davidson on its magical run to the Elite Eight in Detroit. They fell to eventual National Champion Kansas 59-57 in the regional final. McKillop led the ’Cats to their first regional final appearance since Lefty Driesell led Davidson to the regional final in 1969. Under McKillop’s guidance, the Wildcats have made five NCAA tournament appearances, including three consecutive appearances from 2006-2008. This season he led the ’Cats to a 29-7 record, including a national-best 25-game winning streak. Davidson is 58-12 in the last two seasons under McKillop. McKillop has turned Davidson into a dominant force in the conference as they have finished either first orsecond in their SoCon Division 12 out of the last 13 seasons. The 'Cats perfect 20-0 Southern Conference record was part of an undefeated SoCon regular season, McKillop’s third. Davidson’s dominance has been magnified the past two seasons as they currently sport a 30-game regular season conference winning streak. Sports pundits continue to speculate over whether McKillop will move to high profile jobs like the coaching position at Marquette, but he has shown no interest in leaving Davidson for other opportunities. Bob McKillop led the Wildcats to the Elite Eight for the first time since 1969 before losing at the buzzer to KU. These honors come in addition to the SoCon Coach of the Year Award McKillop received a month ago. He has been named Southern Conference Coach of the Year seven times and the Wildcats have had seven 20-win seasons and earned seven postseason bids in McKillop’s time at Davidson. McKillop will begin his 20th season at the helm next year and has put together a 340-225 record during his tenure.

Lacrosse approaches historic streak
By ANNE STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

The lacrosse team easily defeated Pfeiffer University by a score of 17-3 last Wednesday and beat Presbyterian 19-5 on Tuesday evening to tie a school record for most wins in a single season. The victories for the 'Cats bring their record to 9-3. Leading on the attacking front against Pfeiffer was Emily Palmer '08, who scored four goals to tie her career-high mark. Emily Deifendorf ’08 and Haley Cook '10 added three goals apiece to add to the scoring frenzy. Right on their tails, Jen Crawford '10, Becky Horton ’09, and Sarah Walter '08 all snagged two goals apiece. Danielle Ruggieri '11 scored her first collegiate goal, bringing the Wildcats' total to 17.

On the defensive side, the 'Cats were equally as tough. Cook caused three turnovers and collected two groundballs. Jennifer Drew Lindsey '09 grabbed five groundballs on five caused turnovers. In goal, Laura Johnson '08 and Michelle Pav '10 stopped nine shots for the game. The game against Presbyterian on Tuesday night was an even more lopsided affair. Davidson took a 5-0 lead to open the game and never slowed down, eventually stretching the lead to 14. Walter, Deifendorf, and McDonald led the seniors with three goals apiece, while juniors Crawford and Horton also secured hat-tricks on the evening. Johnson improved her record to 9-3 in goal, while Pav added three saves of her own to the effort. The lacrosse team will try to keep up its impressive winning ways against Cincinnati on April 11 to begin a three-game road trip. Michelle Pav '10 shares goalkeeping duty with Lauren Johnson '08, making three saves against Presbyterian.

Women’s Lacrosse (9-3)
4/2 vs. Pfeiffer Won 17-3
4/8 vs. Presbyterian
Next Up:
4/11 at Cincinnati
4/13 at Ohio State

Notes: The Wildcats head to Ohio for a pair of games this weekend.

Men’s Tennis
4/2 at #75 Elon Lost 1-6
4/5 vs. S.C. State Won 6-1
4/6 at ECU Won 4-3
4/11 at Appalachian State
4/12 vs. #65 Furman

Women’s Tennis (14-5, 5-2)
4/2 at Elon Won 5-2
4/3 vs. UNCG Won 6-1
4/5 vs. Boston University Won 4-3
4/8 at Charlotte
Next Up:
4/11 vs. Wofford
4/12 vs. Furman

Notes: The 'Cats can clinch a third-place SoCon finish with a victory over App State. They conclude the regular season Saturday against Furman. The Wildcats can grab at least a share of the SoCon regular season title with victories over Wofford and Furman.

Notes: Shortstop Zach Kayne '09 leads the 'Cats with a .469 batting average in SoCon play.