| + DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Presidential ads spark controversy

Clint SMITH
Staff Writer

In a statement that took many political experts by surprise and seemed drenched in irony, former Bush advisor Karl Rove claimed that the McCain campaign has gone “one step too far” with some of its recent attack ads against Democratic presidential nominee Barack Obama. Rove did, however, also level similar claims against the Obama campaign. “McCain has similarly gone one step too far, attributing to Obama things that are, you know, beyond the 100% truth test,” Rove said in an interview with Chris Wallace on Fox News Sunday.

The Obama campaign jumped on the quote and immediately issued a strong statement that was sent to the media moments after Rove’s startling comments. “In case anyone was still wondering whether John Mccampus. This Saturday, Kappa Alpha Psi will hold the Kappa Cooloff, a free cookout, at 4:30 pm outside the Union atrium. “We want to encourage everyone to come out to the cookout... well-cooked, all you can eat,” Campbell said. Community service and political awareness are also high on the fraternity’s agenda. Members of Kappa Alpha Psi are already involved in the Guide Right Program at Ada Jenkins every Monday, tutoring young students and helping them with homework, as well as serving as role models for the students.

Starting at the Cooloff and throughout the next week, Kappa Alpha Psi will be selling boxes of Krispy Kreme doughnuts to raise money for the St. Jude Foundation, a children’s research hospital which fights pediatric cancer. On October 30, at 7:30 p.m., the fraternity will sponsor a 2008 election forum, with Dr. Roberts, Dr. Aldridge, representatives from College Republicans and Young Democrats, and a fraternity member. The focus of the forum will be on issues important to college students.

In November, Kappa Alpha Psi will continue activities in the spirit of its fundamental purpose, helping Davidson students learn financial responsibility and how to save money through G-L-A-D, Greeks Learning to Avoid Debt. The leaders of Kappa Alpha Psi appreciate the support they have received from the school so far. “We want to let everybody, especially the college administration, know that we are very glad to be on campus and are thankful for the opportunity,” Campbell said. Giles agreed, stating, “This year we were given a chance and are not holding back.”

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 3

Freshmen experience First Night Down

KELLY BEGGS
Staff Writer

Every year, after three weeks of collegiate maturation, Davidson’s freshmen are deemed ready to discover a new part of campus: Martin and Patterson Court. After spending nearly a month cooped up in dorm-room parties, hiding from hall counselors and on-duty RLO, freshmen are officially allowed to take their epic walk down the hill for First Night Down and to finally vocalize the question that’s been plaguing them since day one: “Where’s F?”

While First Night Down is an event that generally focuses on freshmen, the Patterson Court-seasoned seniors began Friday night behind F with a “Last First Night Down Luau” sponsored by Campus Police and RLO. Temporarily exchanging their police badges for brightly patterned Hawaiian shirts, the campus police grilled burgers and hot dogs to celebrate the Class of 2009’s fourth and final First Night. As the pre-parties started, freshmen came down the hill in what Chief of Campus Police Fountain Walker characterized as “troops” with as many as 40 in a single group. Traveling in packs is always an inherent characteristic of freshmen, but this year, according to Chief Walker, the herd mentality was even more pronounced. He said that the tune “When Johnny Comes Marching Home” kept playing in his head as he watched hoards of freshmen stream down the hill.

Walker explained that “Our job is to watch after students’ safety, and also to enforce the law with respect to the environment we’re in.” This college-campus-sensitive law enforcement becomes problematic “when a large group of people en masse descend upon Martin Court to engage in illegal drinking in front of the police.” As a result of the blatant underage drinking that took place last weekend, many freshmen

See First Night, page 2

Baseball coach reflects on Olympics 4