THE DAVIDSONIAN

ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

The ’Cats traveled to Charleston, SC this weekend for two conference matches. They took on College of Charleston on Saturday
afternoon and finished up their play against The Citadel on Sunday. The Cougars proved to be the mightier cat as
College of Charleston beat Davidson in only 3 games (26-24, 25-17, 25-21). Leading the way for the Wildcat offense was
Sarabeth Peele ’11 with 10 kills. Kittery Neale ’09 also hit well, with nine kills and a match-high .571 kill
percentage. Both Peele and Neale were contributors to the ’Cats’ defense as well. Peele and Neale had seven digs each
while Madison Benedict ’12 had four blocks.

In the first game, the Wildcats trailed from the start. With the score 9-6, Peele, Neale, and Benedict tied the
score with a kill apiece. Uncompromising offense from the Cougars allowed them to inch ahead, but Davidson answered with a
3-0 run, forcing the Cougars to call a timeout with the score, 22-20. The Cougars made another run, bringing the
score to 24-21. Davidson, with help from a pair of kills by Jorden Benedict ’11, brought the score to a
tie at 24 all. Another Cougar point allowed the Cougars to claim the game.

The ’Cats were able to grab an early lead in the second game with the score at 3-1. The Cougars,
however, made a quick run, bringing the score to 9-4. Davidson was able to stay close throughout the match but
College of Charleston ultimately won, 25-17. In the third game, the ’Cats were forced to play catch up from the
very beginning. Davidson, thanks to tough play and critical Cougar hitting errors, was able to bring the score to 18-16.
The Cougars answered with a four-point run, bringing the game back to twenty all. College of Charleston ended the match
with four straight points to win.

Sarabeth Peele ’11 led the ’Cats with 21 kills in Sunday’s victory at The Citadel.

-Late goal propels ’Cats to win in SoCon opener-

ZACH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson soccer opened up conference play with a bang. Davidson took on UNC Greensboro at Alumni Stadium and won their
conference opener on Wednesday against a fierce club by a score of 1-0. After their impressive bout with the Spartans,
Davidson traveled to College of Charleston on Sunday to face another conference opponent. Despite many opportunities and a great match,
Davidson fell 3-0, dropping to 1-1 in conference play.

On Wednesday, Davidson played an exciting match for the home crowd. Davidson had many scoring opportunities, but for the first
67 minutes, the game was purely defensive. Neither team could score a goal, and the Davidson defense did not allow
many shots by UNC Greensboro for the entire game. In fact, the only shot on goal for UNC Greensboro came
at the 80:49 mark. In the 67th minute, Yannick Pilgrim ’11 nearly put Davidson ahead when he whizzed past the
defense and struck a shot that was blocked and rebounded by Kyle Engle ’12 who barely missed his shot to
the right of the goal. Despite Davidson’s superior play, the game approached the end without a score.

Jim Fuller and “Sandy” Carnegie
Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home

209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill)
Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-1699
www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

Jim’s career-long track record of achieving successful results for his clients has earned him recognition throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named to the Best Lawyers in America publication consistently for the
past 23 years and was recently named one of the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina. As
a former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the State for
his commitment to justice and his exceptional litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience, he has dedicated his legal
practice to helping people who have been injured by the negligent or criminal conduct of others. Jim and his wife
Jean live in Spinnaker Cove and attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A member of the Lions Club, Jim also
serves on the boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and was recently
appointed to the Town Planning Board.

APPEALS • BANKRUPTCY • BUSINESS LAW • COLLECTIONS • ESTATE PLANNINGEnd of regulation and a possible overtime period; however, Greg
Macnamara ’12 managed to finish off UNC Greensboro by putting Davidson up 1-0 in the last five minutes of the
game. Off a give-and-go play with Machel Turner ’10, Macnamara fired his first career goal into the upper right-hand portion
of the net. Davidson had an exciting finish, netting them a late 1-0 victory. “Winning the conference opener was big
for us,” commented Peter Shelton ’11. “It was a boost to our confidence, and we obtained a result reflecting all
of the hard work we put in.”

On Sunday, Davidson fell in a hard-fought battle. After 44 minutes of complete defense, College of Charleston netted a goal
at the 44:11 mark. The same player, Sean de Silva, scored again a minute after the second half began, putting
the College of Charleston up by a score of 2-0. In the 54th minute, the College of Charleston scored again
to ensure a victory, putting them up 3-0. Statistically, Davidson played a great match. Davidson had eight shots to College
of Charleston’s nine and had more corner kicks than the Cougars. After the 3-0 loss, Davidson’s conference record declined to
1-1. “The loss at Charleston was a sign that the turn to winning is not easy,” Coach Matt Spear said.
“There are moments in the game where you succeed or break, and they made some special plays to succeed while
we did not.” After a busy week, the team will have a short break before another road match on Friday
when they face Furman University.

Prosser D. “Sandy” Carnegie has spent almost 30 years representing clients who have suffered substantial injuries due to another person's
negligence or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas
of the law including contract preparation and review, residential and commercial closings, land development and acquisition, as well as zoning.
Sandy is licensed to practice before all state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia. In addition to his
many responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community. Sandy, a Davidson native, and
his wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy
served many years as a commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town of Davidson committees, is
a member of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & A.M., and has
coached youth football, basketball, and baseball in the Davidson, Cornelius, and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION • PERSONAL INJURY • REAL ESTATE • WILLS & TRUSTS

On Sunday, the ’Cats defeated the Citadel Bulldogs in an afternoon match. Led by Peele with 21 kills and 11
digs, Davidson took the match 3-1 (29-27, 16-25, 25-20, 25-11). Other strong players for the Wildcats included Christine Perzinski ’12
with nine kills and 11 digs, hitting .474 in the match, Jennifer Chamblee ’11 with 25 digs and three aces,
and Hayley Lawson ’11 with 39 assists. Lawson also snagged nine digs and three blocks. In the first game, strong
serving from Anna Bradbury ’11 gave the ’Cats a 16-10 lead over the Bulldogs. The ’Cats were able to keep
the margin over the Citadel until the Bulldogs went on a 9-3 run, tying up the score at 23 all.
Davidson took the game, after several Bulldog hitting errors, 29-27. The Bulldogs won the second game in commanding fashion, leading
from beginning to end. The ’Cats were unable to eliminate the deficit in spite of strong offensive play by Peele.
The ’Cats lost the game, 25-16. The ’Cats trailed in the beginning of the third game but pulled together a
10-2 run, bringing the score to 15-12. The ’Cats finished the game strong with a 25-20 win. In the last
game, the ’Cats dominated from the start, jumping to a comfortable 12-5 margin. Bradbury finished the game with a six-point
serving streak, ending the game with a final score of 25-11, securing the win for the Wildcats. The ’Cats defeated
Gardner-Webb 3-2 on Tuesday, Oct. 7 to improve their record to 7-11 overall and 2-3 in the conference.
