THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2008 7

Last-minute ideas for a simple and fun Valentine’s Day

By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

Although Valentine’s Day memorabilia made its debut in department stores as early as Jan. 1 this year, this popular holiday
actually dates back to ancient Rome. Feb. 14 marked a festival held in honor of Juno, the patron goddess of
women and marriage. The following day, Romans celebrated the festival of Lupercalia, during which the names of young girls were
written on strips of paper and randomly drawn by boys of similar ages, thus pairing each boy with a girl
for the duration of the festival. Sometimes this pairing lasted for a year, and in some cases developed into marriage.

Several thousand years later, there is little doubt that with love in the air, cupid just around the corner and
our chances of finding a sweetheart still as good as the Roman lottery, it must be Valentine’s Day. The season
of love and roses has come once again, and along with candy message hearts, “la vie en rose” seems even
sweeter.

For those of you who live in an ideal world, Valentine’s Day is the result of careful organization and Martha
Stewart-style creativity. You have already bought (or better yet, made) heartwarming cards and stuffed animals weeks ago and jazzy dinner
reservations have been set in semi-precious stone for months. Right.

For the rest of us, life somehow steals away our time and doubles our duties, leaving little room for planning
something special. If this is your predicament, then look no further. Here is a compilation of simple, heartwarming ideas that
you can use this Valentine’s Day to show someone you care.

1. The stickler for tradition: This is the die-hard classic approach to wooing someone for Valentine’s Day. I call it
the “F.A.C.T.S.,” an acronym for Flowers, Animals, Chocolate, Treats and Spending. Try roses, any plush animal with enormous doe eyes
or a heart-shaped box with plenty of the dark goodies. If any one of these gestures should fail to make
an impression, then consider saying adios to the ungrateful recipient.

2. A way with words: We have all clammed up at one time or another, just when the time has
come to say something meaningful. This year, how about showing some worldliness and charm by saying “I love you” in
a different language? Here are a few:
- Arabic: Ana behibak (to male), Ana behibek (to female)
- Chinese: Wo ai ni
- English: Simultaneously overused and underused. The hardest word to say, but it may come in handy.
- French: Je t’aime
- German: Ich liebe dich
- Greek: S’agapo
- Irish: Taim i’ ngra leat
- Italian: Ti voglio bene/Ti amo
- Japanese: Kimi o ai shiteru
- Spanish: Te quiero/Te amo

3. To love or not to love: Why not memorize a short quote from a play or film to recite
when the time is right? Stereotypes aside, most lines from Shakespeare’s “Romeo and Juliet” are a winner, with the possible
exception of “For you and I are past our dancing days.” So are choice excerpts from films such as “Breakfast
at Tiffany’s,” “When Harry Met Sally” and “Casablanca.” If you are not up for the mental challenge, settle down with...

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School
Best Lawyers in America ‘84—’07
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals
Adjunct professor of trial advocacy Duke Law School UNC Law School

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. University of Richmond
Commissioner for the Town of Davidson 83-85, 88-97
Town of Davidson Commercial and North End Corridor Plan ‘05
Mecklenburg CountyReal Estate Executive Council ‘03 to present. Concentrating in Personal Injury Other Areas of Practice: Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections,
Estate Planning, Litigation, Real Estate, Social Security Disability, Wills & Trusts

Burch & Hitto Mined Law Firm
In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill,
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

From your valentine and a copy of “The Holiday,” and let the actors do the rest.

4. Dance With Me: You don’t have to be a ballroom dancer (although it might help) to win yourself a
few points this holiday. Put on a meaningful song (one in which you share a common memory is perfect), and
even a slow sway with someone will mean more than any samba move. If dancing is not your style, and
you are feeling brave, give karaoke a try. Behind the poorly concealed laughs will be much more subtle appreciation.

5. Recipe for Love: Aside from that Love Potion Number Nine you ordered online, a little something home-cooked is a
wonderful way to express your feelings. You don’t have to prepare an extravagant three-hour meal or produce a roasted duck
à l’orange from the oven, but something simple and tasty is guaranteed to be appreciated. Try out a traditional Italian
meal of breadsticks and spaghetti or pizza followed by gelato from Café Mia in Birkdale. Che bello.

6. Singles’ Night Out: No valentine this year? No problem. Grab a group of friends and head off campus for
a nice dinner and a movie, a trip to the mall or head into Charlotte for an old-fashioned, provocative theatre
performance. The comfort and good company of friends is irreplaceable, and so are the pictures. You just might have more
fun than if you were trying to please your petit ami.

Whether you have someone special, a handful of close friends or decide to take the day to honor Juno in
an ancient celebration, remember that despite your official relationship status, this is the time to show someone you care. Happy
Valentine’s Day!

Inside the Bubble by Clint Smith

Greek goodies benefit Olympia
By CAROLINE WOOD
Arts & Living Editor

In August 2007, devastating wildfires, considered the worst Greece has seen in decades, raged through the southwestern hills of the
country, destroying many of the villages of the Peloponnesian region and much of the surrounding countryside. Although the majority of
the Classical antiquities and ruins of Olympia sustained the threat, thousands of people were displaced, hundreds were injured, dozens of
towns were razed and over 60 people perished. Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis promptly declared a state of emergency during the
three-day runaway catastrophe. Since then, the U.S. Agency for International Development contributed $1.9 million in aid, along with the generous
contributions of many other nations, groups and individuals.

Now Davidson students have a chance to make a small contribution to the area’s recovery, simply by enjoying a delicious
snack. The Eta Sigma Phi (ESP) Classics Honor Society has planned a fundraiser to aid in the reforestation of the
Peloponnesian hillsides. Homemade Greek treats, hand-prepared by ESP members, will be for sale next Monday, Feb. 18 in the Union
Café level. Fresh and tasty baklava pastries and spanakopita, traditional spinach pies, will sell for just $2.50, while popular Greek
frappe coffees will be sold for $1.50. All proceeds will be contributed to the replanting of olive trees in and
around Olympia.

“Olympia is so important because of the classical ruins located there and because the city houses the official Olympic torch,”
says Eta Sigma Phi president Elyse Hamilton, ’09. “We are hoping to help restore the city back to its original
beauty and historical significance.”
