THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2008

HANNAH JAKOB
Staff Writer

Not all bunnies are cute and lovable. In fact, as Fred Wolf’s recently released “The House Bunny” reveals, some can
be downright dreadful. The movie, set up to be a hilarious rendition of a Cinderella story, was a disappointment in
more ways than one. The girls of the socially inept Zeta Alpha Zeta sorority become sexy princesses with the help
of Shelley, a recently evicted Playboy bunny. The plot fails to thicken as the girls attempt to overturn an evil
sorority on campus. Poor acting, over-exaggerated characters, and downright dumb scene sequences removed any hope that the movie may have
had to be a hit.

Shelley, played by Anna Faris from “Scary Movie” and “The Hot Chick,” was an extreme form of the stereotypical “dumb
blonde” with hair, heels, and breasts all unnaturally high. Her lack of common sense was overplayed to the greatest extent.
And, after only a few minutes into the movie, it was no longer funny. Shelley finds a new home and
family in the Zeta Alpha Zeta Sorority after Hugh Hefner boots her from the Playboy mansion. The misfit Zetas have
unique issues ranging from intense geekiness to a full body brace to an unplanned pregnancy. Shelley takes it upon herself
to convert the freaks and geeks into mini Playboy bunnies in order to get 30 pledges and save the failing
sorority.

The optimistic leader of the girls, Natalie, is played by Emma Stone of “Superbad.” Unfortunately, her good acting and cute
personality are overshadowed by the unnecessarily blatant nerdiness that composes her character. Natalie encourages the girls to listen to Shelley’s
advice, trading facial piercings and pigtails for highlights and water bras. The other Zeta sisters include familiar faces. Kat Dennings
of “The 40 Year Old Virgin” plays Mona, while the “Cheetah Girls” Kiely Williams plays the role of Lily. Rumer
Willis makes her first major movie appearance as Joanne, the girl with the back brace. Unfortunately, Willis’ debut is spoiled
with a horrific scene where she chases after her crush Forrest Gump style as Shelley shouts, “Run Joanne, Run!” As
her body brace begins to fall off, the entire theater lets out a groan in unison.

The exaggerated personalities of the Ze-

Town of Davidson

STACEY BINNEY
Staff Writer

The weekend of Aug. 22 marked not only the beginning of a new semester for Davidson students, but also the
opening of the newest chocolate shop, Davidson Chocolate Co. Owners John and Sue Elliot now provide this small town with
chocolate truffles, Hershey’s ice cream, milkshakes, ice cream floats, flavored teas, and hot coffee. With a convenient location adjacent to
Harris Teeter, this shop allows easy access to vital goodies for Sunday mornings and final exams. Even Valentine’s Day has
become much easier, with perfect treats for yourself or your sweetheart.

“The first two weeks have been very busy,” Sue Elliot said. And with their opening celebration this weekend, the couple,
along with their son, John Jr., have plenty to do. The grand opening of Davidson Chocolate Co. kicks off this
Friday and lasts through Sunday with raffles, drawings, tours of the kitchen, and chocolate-making demonstrations on Saturday. BestOf all, this
Sunday is “officially” ice cream cone day, with 50% off all scoops while supplies last. Treat yourself for surviving “First
Night Down” with a chocolate truffle, which costs between one and two dollars. You can choose from a wide array
of flavors ranging from raspberry and key lime pie to Kahlua, hot chili, and cappuccino. End a shopping trip to
Harris Teeter with an ice cream cone for the road in traditional vanilla, chocolate, or strawberry flavors. Or, if you’re
feeling a bit adventurous, sample a more interesting mix, such as P. Nutty Cone Craziness (butter pecan, caramel, fudge, peanuts,
and crunchy chocolate) or Roadrunner Raspberry (white chocolate with raspberry swirl and raspberry chocolate cups). A single dish costs $2.35,
but your Davidson Cat Card knocks a nice 10% off the bill.

Hot teas and coffees will be perfect for when the weather cools down, and the Elliots said that special seasonal
flavors, such as “pumpkin spice” tea in October or “snowman tea” in the winter, will be available when the temperature
changes. Or grab a quality gift to send to relatives for the holidays, like a box of fudge, chocolate turtles,
or chocolate-dipped fruit, all around $25 per pound. There are so many reasons for taking a few minutes to visit
the Davidson Chocolate Co., and according to the Elliots, that was exactly their goal. With John Elliot involved in the
food business, the couple had been working to open a Bed and Breakfast. “My realtor told us, ‘let’s go see
a chocolate shop,’” Sue Elliot said. “We hadn’t thought about that. It was something we couldn’t resist.” In a complete
family effort, John Jr. introduced his parents to the location of their new business. A graduate of Davidson College ’03,
he informed his parents of the rapidly changing town of Davidson, and thank goodness.

See Chocolate, page 6

A courtesy photo

---

The following text appears to be a review of a movie:

The makeovers make it almost impossible for the audience to get to know each girl, which limits the audience’s emotional
reaction to their successes and failures. After their extreme makeovers, the girls are ready to take on the evil preppy
sorority. Shelley’s hard work pays off; when the time comes for underclassmen to submit their pledges, Zeta Alpha Zeta has
more than enough to keep their charter. Later, the girls are confronted with the task of selecting their new sisters.
They become judgmental and cruel as they watch a slideshow of prospective recruits. The girls realize that their new personalities
reflect those of the girls they used to hate. The Zetas decide to reclaim some of their individuality, and in
the end, are able to create the type of sorority they had always hoped for. There are a few more
bumps along the way as they send out their bids, and in the end, Shelley is forced to give an
awful and irrelevant speech in front of the college’s board in order to get the girls’ 30 pledges. In the
end, everyone gets exactly what they wanted. The Zetas get to keep their house and Shelley finds a new home.
She also lands a boyfriend after a sadly unfunny courtship with the intelligent philanthropist Oliver, played by Colin Hanks. Overall,
“The House Bunny” offers plenty of eye candy and laughs, though nothing intellectually stimulating. If you’re looking for something to
take your mind off of chemistry problem sets, this is the perfect mindless escape.
