THE DAVIDSONIAN

Lambs’ critiques government

By ANJAN MUKHERJEE
Staff Writer

The Robert Redford-directed “Lions for Lambs” is a politically charged film that engages the audience from the first minute. The film tells three parallel stories simultaneously: a Republican senator trying to sell a story about a new mission in Afghanistan, two soldiers in the Afghan mountains whose lives are directly affected by this mission, and an inspirational and idealistic political science professor at a Californian university trying to engage a previously active student in his class.

The film directly questions the decisions that were made to go to war in Iraq, as well as the rhetoric used to try to keep the American public engaged in the war. Senator Jasper Irving (Tom Cruise), a first-term Republican, invites reporter Janine Roth (Meryl Streep) to his office to tell her about a bold new plan designed to fight Taliban forces in Afghanistan. He says that this plan will win both the war and the “hearts and minds of the people.” Roth brings up past decisions on Afghanistan that failed, noting similarities to previous military mistakes, while Irving keeps insisting that Roth should focus on the state of Afghanistan in the present, not six years ago.

It seems Redford suggests that the government tries to focus the war on little missions in Afghanistan to take the American people’s minds off of Iraq, a governmental tactic that badly backfires, as American soldiers’ lives are meaninglessly lost. The more questions Roth asks, the more rhetoric Irving seems to feed her. Irving then proceeds to tell her that his story will be a great one to break. Roth knows that Irving’s version of the Afghan mission is rosier than the reality. Through Roth’s conscience, Redford heavily criticizes the media in its role to glorify the war in Iraq in the months leading up to its beginning in March 2003.

The second story focuses on two Marines, Arian Finch (Derek Luke) and Ernest Rodriguez (Michael Peña), who are part of a mission to weed out small groups of Taliban insurgents in the snowy night mountains of Afghanistan. During the film, there is a flashback to Professor Stephen Malley’s (Robert Redford) class, in which Finch and Rodriguez argue that the United States does not properly take care of people who voluntarily sign up to fight for this country, starting with the education system. The film again criticizes the government through these two characters whose mission fails due to faulty intelligence. The initial plan of the mission—having a group of Marines drop from a helicopter onto the mountains—is unsuccessful when the helicopter comes under surprise heavy enemy fire. Many on board the helicopter were shot instantly, and Rodriguez, wounded, fell off into the snow below. Seeing that the helicopter was about to abort its mission...

(see ‘Lions’, page 11)

Frustrating ‘Memento’

By KELLY FRANKLIN
Guest Writer

It seems that Christopher Nolan’s acclaimed “Memento” is the Las Vegas of films: edgy, impressive, and cool but lacking entirely in morality and substance. Although it’s certainly refreshing to have a movie that leaves you deep in thought even after its conclusion, Nolan pushes his audience to the absolute limit, as if attempting to see just how confusing he can make things while still being able to bring...the story together in the end. Early on, the film succeeds. A Polaroid picture being shaken by a tattooed hand opens the film, with the image of a dead man draining from the photo by the end of the

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 2008

By SUZIE ECKL
Editor-in-Chief

The human race has gone kaput in director Francis Lawrence’s screen version of Richard Matheson’s 1954 novel of the same name. Well, almost. Meet Robert Neville, the renowned scientist caught in the aftermath of a genetically engineered virus strain meant to cure cancer but which instead eradicates almost the entire human population. Portrayed skillfully by the Fresh Prince himself, Will Smith, Neville is an un-reluctant hero still hoping to find the cure that has eluded him for years.

This recent addition to the zombie genre achieves incredible special effects until we get to the, well, zombies. The opening scenes are visually stunning and illustrate a New York City already reclaimed by nature. In his sports car, Neville navigates through the eerie wasteland, and Lawrence takes advantage of the disconcerting atmosphere by paying particular attention to details: a downtrodden McDonald's looms over Times Square, Broadway musical posters peel off of concrete buildings and Neville turns blindly around construction work, knowing, of course, that he won’t hit anything. He has been here hundreds of times before, and his silent routine feels like exactly that: a routine.

But for us, it is no routine. The filmmakers have practically redefined the chase scene in the first few moments of the film, putting Neville and his dog in a bright red Ford Mustang, equipped with a rifle and chasing down deer for dinner. In some ways, it evokes scenes from movies like “Jurassic Park,” which juxtapose technology with the prehistoric, but “I Am Legend” takes its strength from the still unforgettable opening credits. The movie's attention to visual details and its play with reality and time come to light in these first moments, and hopefully the audience notes the meticulous care put into the film's production and attends to the plot's details accordingly, as they hold both the answers and the appeal.

Hunky Guy Pearce fills the role of Leonard, who struggles to overcome a disease that resets his memory every half-hour while he searches for the man who raped and murdered his wife. The film begins with the murder of Teddy (Joe Pantoliano), indicating the backwards-chronology of the film, with brief cuts in black and white to a forward-progressing starting-point in time. These two ends of the story creep ever closer for the duration of the movie as more and more details of Leonard’s quest are revealed.

The audience learns about the identity of Leonard’s foe just as he does: Each time his memory resets he must reinterpret the clues at his disposal, which include the tattoos scrawled across his body and the annotated Polaroid shots he leaves in his pockets. Teddy serves as an anchor to both the audience and the ever-disoriented protagonist, attempting to provide some stability to a very speculative scenario, where time runs in multiple directions and fact rarely remains factual. We know that the killer is a John G. We have a license plate number.