6 Tue DAVIDSONIAN

Haunted, from page 5

door from the inside.

The Grove Park Inn and Spa in Asheville wraps up our ghostly trip. Architect Fred Loring Seely designed the Inn
and built it in the Arts and Crafts style.

Construction was completed in 1913 and guests include those that helped define and shape America: Thomas Edison, Henry Ford, F.
Scott Fitzgerald, and several Presidents.

For the past 50 years, guests and staff alike have felt the presence of the elusive “Pink Lady.” Knowledge of
her life is sparse, but she is rumored to have been a hotel guest in the 1920s, who fell to
her death in the Palm Court Atrium.

The hotel recently conducted an extensive study of paranormal activity and discovered that room 545 was a hot-spot. Guests who
experience a visit from the Pink Lady typically describe her as a form of harmless pink smoke.

For those interested in seeing the Pink Lady for themselves, hotels.com has deals for a double-occupancy room starting at $280
a night in the winter.

The topic of ghosts is always a tricky subject. There are believers, skeptics, and those who view the legends of
these hotels as simply a fun piece of history. For a price, it’s possible to go and determine for yourself
what you believe. And if your hopes of seeing a spirit don’t live up to the hype, just take the
elevator downstairs and cheer yourself up with a four-star slice of cake.

Davidson alumni: It’s Great to Be A Wildcat Every Day at Monkee’s! And, stock up on your summer essentials with
our 50%-75% off Summer Sale! Only at Monkee's of Lake Norman - located at the new Harris Teeter Shopping Center!

15% Student Discount honored daily with a valid student ID!

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 2008

LIVING

The Grove Park Inn and Spa in Asheville appears serene and picturesque, but many guests claim it is haunted by
the mysterious “Pink Lady.”

Diwali, from page 5

of the gods through their grace and swiftness. With over fifty bells decorating each silk costume-leg, the dancers replicated the
sounds of drums and the ancient poses of the Indian temples in the dances.

The Diwali celebration finished up with Indian food, such as samosas and the mango lassi drink, which consists of mango
pulp mixed with yogurt and traditional lassi ingredients.

Socializing during this time remained important, as one of the largest aspects about Diwali is the family and friendship togetherness
during this period.

“Back home, everybody gets together,” said Vaidya. “It’s nice, you see relatives you haven’t seen in a while. Diwali has
the religious part to it, but you also celebrate a lot with family. It’s a lot like Christmas.”

The celebration ended with a single word: “Namaste,” a common word in India which essentially means “that which is divine
in me honors that which is divine in you.” So Namaste Davidson, and happy Diwali.
