10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Football falls to Indians in opener

Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

Most football coaches will tell you that turnovers are one thing that will always derail a good team. The Davidson
Wildcat football team learned that lesson the hard way Saturday, committing four turnovers in a 21-9 loss at UNC-Pembroke.

Ryan Alexander ’09 led the Wildcat offense by completing 28 of 38 passes for 237 yards. However, he also threw
three interceptions, including two in the red zone and one in his own territory that set up the Indians’ final
touchdown. “UNCP had a very athletic defense,” Alexander said. “But I made some poor decisions. We can’t win games with
that many turnovers.”

The turnovers ultimately negated a very strong start to the game for the Wildcats. The defense made a goal-line stand
in the first quarter, stopping two Indian plays inside their own 3-yard line. Later, Brandon Giles ’10 intercepted a Pembroke
pass at the Indian 1-yard line, setting up Chad Barnes’ ’09 one-yard plunge to open the scoring. The Wildcats faked
the extra point but were unable to convert.

The ’Cats expanded their lead to nine in the second quarter when Ben Behrendt ’11 booted a 47-yard field goal.
Later in the quarter, Davidson missed an opportunity to add to their lead when Alexander was intercepted at the Indian
15-yard line.

Pembroke’s first points came after a fortuitous special teams play late in the first half. A bad snap on a
field goal forced holder Justin Hinson to scramble, but Hinson picked up six yards and a first down for the
Indians. After fumbling twice inside the 5-yard line, Pembroke finally scored on a five-yard pass from Garrett Sutphen to Keith
Gore with 21 seconds left in the first half. Wildcat coach Tripp Merritt called Hinson’s run a huge play that
shifted the momentum of the game.

Jamal Williams gave the Indians the lead in the third quarter with a seven-yard touchdown run. The Wildcats countered with
a long drive of their own and drove to the Pembroke 18-yard line before Alexander was intercepted for the second
time in the game. The Davidson defense stiffened and forced a failed Pembroke field goal attempt. However, Alexander’s third interception
followed soon thereafter, giving the Indians the ball at the Wildcat 33-yard line. Brandon McLaurin caught a 10-yard touchdown pass
from Cory Smith to push the Indians’ lead to 21-9.

Davidson had one final chance, but Alexander’s completion to Myles Potter ’10 on fourth-and-goal fell five yards short of the
end zone. Kirk Konert ’09 led the ’Cats’ offense with ten receptions for 85 yards. The defense was led by
Daniel Astrop ’09 and Daniel Hauffe ’10 with nine tackles apiece while Tyler Lemons ’10 made eight tackles and a
forced fumble.

SPORTS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2008

NFL off-field issues unstoppable

Curtis YOUNG
Staff Writer

Darrent Williams. Sean Taylor. Richard Collier. You may recognize all of those names. Chances are you recognize at least one
of the names. Maybe you do not recognize any. These three men possess a tragic link which unfortunately ties them
together in National Football League history.

In the past two years, three NFL players have been the victims of violent shootings that resulted in either serious
injury or death. In January 2007, Williams, a former Denver Broncos cornerback, was killed in a drive-by shooting in the
early hours of the morning after leaving a Denver nightclub. Former Redskins safety Sean Taylor was shot in the leg
last November during an attempted robbery at his home in Miami, Fla. Taylor died the next day of internal bleeding
and complications with his recovery. Two weeks ago, Jacksonville Jaguars offensive lineman Richard Collier was shot multiple times in a
drive-by incident in Jacksonville. Unlike Williams and Taylor, Collier will likely live, though he is still in critical condition.

While all three shootings were tragedies, they also represent a growing culture of violence in the NFL. This is not
to say that any of the three was in any way at fault, but that the league has seen a
significant increase in the exposure of its players to violent situations. Because many NFL players are wealthy and famous, they
become more likely targets. Although new commissioner Roger Goodell has instituted policies intended to enforce stricter discipline for his athletes,
players have continued to put themselves in the headlines for the wrong reasons.

Within the past two years, the NFL has seen a young star (the star-crossed Dallas Cowboys cornerback Adam “Pacman” Jones)
accused of firing a weapon into the air multiple times outside of a nightclub, a Pro Bowl defensive tackle (Dallas’
Tank Johnson) repeatedly possess illegal firearms, and a former first-round draft choice (Jacksonville wide receiver Matt Jones) arrested on drug
possession charges. These are a few instances in a league that is consistently being forced to defend its public image.

Under previous commissioner Paul Tagliabue, the NFL did very little to prevent this type of behavior from its players. For
example, after pleading guilty to a lesser charge after initially being indicted for murder, Baltimore Ravens star Ray Lewis was
allowed to play the following season. The facts of that case are still disputed by many, but none argue that
Lewis received anything but a slap on the wrist from the NFL.In fact, Lewis was featured on the cover of
EA Sports’ Madden Football only a few years after his arrest. Under today’s regime, the NFL is at least taking
a proactive approach to curbing the off-field incidents in which its players are involved. “Pacman” was banned from the NFL
for a full 17 months. He lost millions for his behavior and hopefully learned his lesson. Johnson suffered an eight-game
suspension and has been quiet off of the field since. Is Goodell’s player conduct policy going to clean up the
NFL’s violent image and make its players model citizens? I think that answer is a definitive “no.” Is it going
to keep players from getting into situations where tragedies can occur? Again, I think not. However, the policy has partially
cleaned up the NFL’s public image. Also, the league has begun requiring rookie players to take classes that offer instruction
in money management and in how to live life as a young NFL player. While these measures are unlikely to
drastically alter the behavior of the young players, the NFL has begun to cover its bases by educating its athletes.
The image of the NFL has suffered greatly over the years, but it was due to a very real problem.
Please do not misunderstand; the league is filled with good men that give back to their communities and treat their
inflated standing in society with the utmost respect. With its countless advertisements, the NFL rightfully strives to promote these players
and their actions. Unfortunately, the league’s portrayal of its players does not corroborate the numerous off-field transgressions of a substantial
subsection of the league. I applaud the NFL for taking proactive action, but I do not believe that we have
seen significant progress in the behavior of the NFL players. I certainly believe that the public image of the NFL
has improved with Goodell as commissioner, but it is possible that his bark is bigger than his bite. What is
going to happen when the inevitable steroid problems arise? What will Goodell do when the “electric” Michael Vick (who makes
the league millions in jersey sales) is released from prison? The NFL’s public relations are improving, but evidence indicates that
its image does not confirm reality. That revelation is indeed a shame.

Although Pembroke is in its second season of football, it is far from a cupcake opponent. Merritt pointed out that
the team has 20 transfers from Division 1 schools, and called them “as fast as anyone we’ll see in the
conference.” Lemons and Merritt also mentioned that the heat and humidity of the game were factors that worked against the
Wildcats’ defense in the second half. “We saw some really bright spots and some really bad spots,” Merritt said, “We
just have to work on accentuating the good things and eliminating the bad ones.” Next on the slate for the
Wildcats is a road game against Lenoir-Rhyne. The Bears run the triple option offense, and their heavy emphasis on the
run could present problems for a Wildcat defense that gave up over 200 rushing yards to the Indians. Merritt said
that his team’s problems against Pembroke were primarily due to numerous missed tackles over the course of the game, an
area which he will be sure to focus on this week in practice. Regarding the loss to Pembroke, Lemons said
it may have been a blessing in disguise. It “gave us a look at a good football team, and showed
us some holes that we certainly need to work on before league play begins.”

Wildcat Results:

Football (0-1)
Results:
9/6 @ UNC-Pembroke L 9-21
Next Up:
9/13 @ Lenoir-Rhyne
Notes: Daniel Astrop ’11 and Daniel Hauffe ’10 led the Wildcats’ defense with nine tackles apiece in Saturday’s loss at
Pembroke.

Field Hockey (2-2)
Results:
9/5 vs. Georgetown W 3-2
9/6 vs. VCU W 4-2
Next Up:
9/12 @ Longwood
9/13 vs. Towson (@ Farmville, Va.)
Notes: Davidson looks to build on their two-game winning streak this weekend as they open NorPac Conference play @ Longwood.

Men’s Soccer (1-3-0)
Results:
9/5 @ #20 Georgetown L 0-3
9/6 @ #9 Maryland L 1-4
Next Up:
9/13 vs. High Point
9/16 @ Duke
Notes: Machel Turner ’10 added his second goal of the season in the ’Cats 4-1 loss at #9 Maryland over
the weekend.

Women’s Soccer (2-0-3)
Results:
9/5 vs. Lehigh T 2-2
9/7 vs. Richmond T 1-1
Next Up:
9/12 @ Harvard
9/14 @ Providence
Notes: Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10 scored her team-leading third goal in Friday night’s 2-2 tie against Lehigh.

Volleyball (1-5)
Results:
9/5 vs. Georgetown L 0-3
9/6 vs. Missouri State L 1-3
9/6 @ UNC L 0-3
Next Up:
9/12 vs. Charlotte
9/13 vs. George Mason
9/13 vs. Rutgers
Notes: The ’Cats have their first home games this weekend as they host the Wildcat Mizuno Classic at Belk Arena.

Men’s and Women’s Cross Country
Results:
9/6 Eye Opener @ USC-Upstate
Men - 3rd Place
Women - 3rd Place
Next Up:
9/20 Winthrop Invitational
Notes: Tom Divinnie ’10 (25:35) and Alex Hoyt ’09 (26:09) finished second and fourth, respectively, out of 250 runners in
the 8K at the Eye Opener.
