6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

DCSO, from page 6

the Vidin State Philharmonic in Bulgaria.

Although the Theatre Department’s “Hamlet” and the Men’s Basketball’s season opener took place at similar times the same night, the attendance at the orchestra performance was quite impressive. By the end of the concert, standing ovations filled the performance hall.

I left the concert completely transformed into a state of absolute harmony. Luckily, I was able to have a relaxed conversation with one of the orchestra members on trumpet, Jeff Roth ‘12.

“I think it went very well considering the amount of time we had,” said Roth. “There was good balance between the soloists and the orchestra, and we didn’t drag the tempo. The conductors gave excellent direction, and I definitely believe that this concert was a success. I’m looking forward to doing this again next year.”

The next chance to catch DCSO ensemble in action will be at their winter concert, to be held Friday, February 20, 2009.

Arts & LIVING
Take time to be thankful

ALLIE COKER
Guest Writer

It’s that time again! Another Turkey Day is just around the corner. As the stuffing, cranberries and yams are headed out of the kitchen and heaped onto your plate though, let us not forget how much we truly have to be grateful for.

True- it’s easier to be stressed out over the papers that are still due and the problems that will still be waiting for us when we return from break, but what about all those little things in life that are so priceless? These little things are what make life what it is. So set aside your serving of worry for just a moment and read over these small things I am grateful for:

1. Push pin smileys

2. Tuna sandwiches from union

3. Pink shrimp (as opposed to gray)

4. 4 red cars in a row

5. Weird compliments like “you have excellent motor skills”

6. Figuring out how to label your aim buddies by their names instead of screen names

7. Putting off buying a purchase you really want only to go back later and find it on sale! (or on recall- 6th sense!)

8. Late-night escapades that are more than a little questionable- like pretending to climb Mt. Everest when it’s really a dryer

9. Laughing at...I mean with...your boyfriend and his best friend when they make a stupid joke (i.e. every joke)

10. When someone winks at you...and they look GOOD doing it

11. That one part of your body you can’t help but be a little proud of- no matter what it is, eyes, elbows, calves, hair

12. The fact that you can change your privacy settings on Facebook (hey, last I checked I wasn’t a celebrity...)

13. REALLY bad fashion- come on, it’s funny!

14. The feeling that you are part of something much bigger than yourself

15. Funny and crazy hats

16. When you finally say what you wanted to say all along

17. The traditions and habits of other cultures

18. The right to vote!

19. Old-school Halloween costumes (whether it’s from the 90s like Wayne’s World or a flapper)

20. Variety- it’s the spice of life!

21. When something so ridiculous or outrageous happens that you can’t even find the words for it....

22. Taking each day one step at a time

23. Laying in the arms of another

24. Doing dips while dancing!

25. Watching the interesting and often amusing expressions on people’s faces

26. Breakfasts that turn into lunches

27. Really fantastic roomie talks

28. Blaring your music until you are partially deaf

29. How everyone in a movie looks when you hit rewind

30. Cancelled TV shows that were incidentally the best shows ever

31. The vapor your breath makes on a cold night

32. A really relaxing shower

33. Typos that make things awkward

34. Love, love, luv, <3

35. All those special little people, places, and moments in your life that you know you aren’t going to forget for a very, VERY long time.