THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson's farmer's market goes local

The microwave: Kare Lovetr Staff Writer

As much as we all love eating in Vail Commons, every Davidson student will probably admit that the food selection
there can sometimes get a little old. If you’re looking for a chance to sample some new foods while also
promoting an excellent environmental cause, you should pull yourself out of bed on a Saturday morning and check out the
Davidson Farmer’s Market. Luckily, it’s located right behind Summit Coffee, solving your morning caffeine fix.

The Davidson Farmer’s Market (DFM) provides an opportunity for the local agricultural community to promote an environmentally sustainable food system.
The farmer’s market began when citizens contacted Kate MacIntyre, the late Director of Downtown Davidson Inc., to express interest in
creating a weekly market. The mission of the Davidson Farmer’s Market is “to promote a farmer’s market in Davidson that
will provide a vibrant community gathering place with locally grown agricultural and horticultural products, educational materials and programs, and family-friendly
activities.” Every Saturday from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m., residents and students can visit the market. A variety of locally
grown fruits, vegetables, meats, cheeses, flowers, soaps, and baked goods are available for purchase.

An unusual vendor that you would probably not expect to encounter while perusing a small-town farmer’s market is Pat Roberts’
Birdbrain Ostrich Ranch. Located in Sherrills Ford, N.C., this farm has been in commission since 1996 and offers tours of
its property. The farm is home to around 85 ostriches. Roberts said that he enjoys the friendly people that he
encounters at the Davidson Farmer’s Market. “I aim for a higher quality when raising my birds,” said Roberts. “We raise
our livestock chemical-free, without steroids and growth hormones, and I like to...

Charlotte gets a glimpse

JENNIFER ERRINGTON Arts and Living Editor

Few images are as powerful as the cataclysmic volcanic eruption that buried the Roman city of Pompeii under feet of
ash. The eruption of Mt. Vesuvius in A.D. 79, which demolished the small bay town and neighboring Herculaneum, preserved a
small yet significant moment in ancient life, capturing the haunting contrast of sudden plight and freshly baked bread. Now, an
exhibit at Charlotte’s Discovery Place museum offers visitors a unique look at rare artifacts unearthed from among the hardened ash
of what quickly became an ancient burial site nearly 2,000 years ago.

“A Day in Pompeii” features a large number of original artifacts as well as five body casts of Pompeii residents
and animals. Artifacts range from pottery and kitchenware, such as ovens, stoves, and serving dishes to carbonized food and the
recipe for their fermented (and highly unpleasant to a modern palate) fish sauce, “garum.” Also on display are household shrine
statuettes, called “lares,” enormous frescoes, magnificent statues of Bacchus and Venus, garden sculptures, oil lamps, coins, jewelry, furniture, medical and
cosmetic instruments. The craftsmanship found in the subtle inlay of a table, or the traces of paint on statues, demonstrates
the incredible artistry the ancients possessed. These artifacts do not undermine the stunning casts, but rather call attention to the
many other areas of Pompeian life before the eruption.

The body casts occupy a separate room, where strategic lighting and an entrance corridor create ominous shadows, while Samuel Barber’s
“Adagio for Strings” finishes the macabre room. The plethora of other featured artifacts and reconstructions hold equal merit.

Mt. Vesuvius erupted on Aug. 24 for the first time in 700 years. The violent eruption sent a 20-mile column
of pumice into the air before falling to the ground and accumulating up to nine feet in parts of Pompeii.
The following morning, a highly dense column of ash collapsed, sealing the city. Buried under ash and pumice for nearly
1,700 years, Pompeii saw daylight again in 1748 when Spanish engineer Rocque Joaquin de Alcubierre excavated the city. In 1863,
Italian museum director and archaeologist Giuseppe Fiorelli developed an astounding method of using plaster of Paris to create molds from
the space occupied by the victims’ body cavities. His work produced chilling, life-size casts, depicting the last few, labored breaths
of Pompeii’s victims.think that we put a little more love into caring for our birds.” If you’re looking for more
conventional produce, stands such as Big Jim’s Produce of Troutman, N.C. and Fisher Farms of Richfield, N.C. offer fresh, high-quality
fruits and vegetables. Their products include beautiful heirloom tomatoes, yams, apples, peaches, onions, squash, and a large selection of peppers.
If you feel your sweet tooth acting up, see Market, page 6.

Pompeii
Davidson’s own Jeanne Neumann, Professor of Classics, served as a primary academic liaison to the exhibit. A specialist in many
areas of classical study, including oral Latin, Dr. Neumann finds the impact of ancient and “modern” Pompeii to be particularly
dynamic. Her work has included English translations of Latin and discussions of artifact significance. “The people at Discovery Place have
been great,” Neumann said. “They are smart, energetic, and wonderfully collegial to work with. It has been an easy and
fun collaboration.” “A Day in Pompeii,” which opened in July, will remain open until Jan. 4, 2009. Tickets cost $20
for the general public and $18 for students. For questions call 704-372-6261. Reservations are recommended. The ashes of Mt. Vesuvius
preserved the ancient Roman city of Pompeii. Some of the artifacts are now on display at Charlotte’s Discovery Place museum.

Beyond Popcorn
JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Arts and Living Editor

I'll admit it: I'm somewhat of a foodie. Nothing makes me happier than cooking something delicious. What can be better
than the idea of crafting a meal from something that, minutes before, existed purely as a bunch of solitary ingredients?
Over the summer, I spent hours with my mom in our kitchen. We chopped, diced, and pan-seared, sometimes following recipes
and other times winging it completely. Back at Davidson, cooking becomes somewhat of a challenge for those who do not
live in an apartment. The kitchen facilities in my dorm, Irwin, are somewhat lacking, to say the least. OK, they’re
nonexistent. I developed coping mechanisms, thankfully. Davidson’s cable network sadly doesn’t include Food Network, but I’ve been able to sneak
in time to watch “Take Home Chef” on TLC. Not only does chef Curtis Stone prepare some nice-looking dishes, but
he’s also pretty nice-looking himself. But television and celebrity chefs (no matter how attractive) will never replace the joy of
actually cooking. Dorms may lack ovens and stovetops, but most students own a microwave. Typically, the meals prepared in this
machine pale in comparison to a gourmet meal (Cup of Noodles, anyone?) and one could hardly call a bag of
Orville Kettle Corn nutritiously satisfying. So, several months ago, I was pleased to find an article that presented the microwave
in a new light. The New York Times publishes a weekly section called “Dining Out.” This section regularly features a
column called “The Minimalist,” written by Mark Bittman. In the articles, he presents simple ingredients and prepares them in a
unique and refreshing way. Bittman’s April 2, 2008 article featured the staple of all dorm rooms: the microwave. Titled, “You
use it every day. But can you make it cook?” the piece describes Bittman’s microwave experiments. Bittman becomes intrigued by
what the miracle machine can do. I was intrigued as well. Could the hiatus of food preparation in the dorm
be over? Like Bittman, I discovered the microwave was capable of so much more than just reheating cold coffee. Take
vegetables, for example. “For any vegetable you would parboil or steam, the microwave works as well or better, and is
faster,” the article said. “Put the vegetable in a bowl with a tiny bit of water (or sometimes none), cover
and zap. Asparagus: two minutes; potatoes or beets: four; spinach: one or two.” Freshly cooked vegetables from the microwave? Who
knew? My interest piqued, I scoured the Internet for microwave-exclusive recipes. Lots of results popped up. And not one of
them included something pulled out of a box from Harris Teeter’s frozen-food section. For example, allrecipes.com includes an entire section
called “Campus Cooking” devoted to simple meals college students can make. Monday’s featured recipe was “Basic Microwave Risotto.” If you
feel tired of Commons, or simply have the urge to become the next Wolfgang Puck, here’s the recipe:

Ingredients: 3 tablespoons butter; 1 clove

See Microwave, page 6.
