12 right by. Jonathon, Kg Tom Divinnie '10 finished fifth individually in the race with a career-best 25:13 in the 8-kilometer event.

MIKE FRONGELLO
Sports Editor

Davidson’s men’s and women’s cross country teams continued their impressive start to the season with a pair of stellar performances at the Asics Winthrop Invitational over the weekend. Tom Divinnie ’10 paced the men’s team with a fifth-place finish as the ’Cats finished fourth out of 14 teams in the Invitational. The women’s team turned in a third-place effort behind Caroline Sanker ’09, who finished fourth overall. Over 400 runners competed in the event as the invitational attracted talented runners from throughout the region.

Divinnie ran a career-best 25:13 on the 8-kilometer course and finished within three seconds of third place. Alex Hoyt ’09 earned 24th place with a 25:51 run, while Ran Hopkins also turned in a career-best time (26:14), finishing just behind Hoyt, for 27th place. Thad Sieracki ’09 (26:38) and Peter Bruton ’10 (26:50) finished 33rd and 37th, respectively, to complete the scoring for the ’Cats.

Louisville took first place in the team event with 23 points, while the Southern Conference rivals Appalachian State (41 points) and Elon (113 points) finished second and third overall, just ahead of the ’Cats. Davidson topped SoCon opponents UNC-Greensboro (137 points) and Wofford (319 points), who finished fifth and 10th, respectively.

“We were excited that a lot of our guys ran personal bests,” Hoyt said. “But Appalachian State packed eight runners ahead of our second man.”

In the women’s event, Sanker made her season debut and did not disappoint with her blazing time of 18:21 in the 5-kilometer race. Jane Gay ’12 displayed another solid performance with a tenth-place finish (18:39), while Lauren Childs ’11 and Emily King ’09 finished 27th and 29th, respectively, for the Wildcats. Heather Connaroe ’11 concluded the ’Cats scoring with a 40th place (19:23) finish for Davidson.

The ’Cats finished just a point behind second-place finisher South Carolina (109 points) as they amassed 110 points in the invitational. Louisville made it a sweep of the events as the Cardinals ran away with the race victory with 31 points. Davidson beat out all their Southern Conference competitors in the race, including Appalachian State (118 points), Elon (153 points), UNCG (241 points), Wofford (426 points), and Georgia Southern (437 points).

Both teams have a week off before returning to the course on October 4 in Louisville, Ky. for the Greater Louisville Cross Country Classic. The Wildcats look to carry their momentum from their strong early season performances as they continue to prepare for the Southern Conference Championships to be held November 1 in Spartanburg, S.C.

“Winning conference is a tangible goal for the first time ever,” Hoyt said. “But to do so we will need to keep up with Appalachian’s top runners from the start.”

Field hockey improves against No. 1 Wake, falls short

KRIS HENDERSHOT
Staff Writer

Last weekend the Davidson field hockey team encountered conference rival Longwood University and number one-ranked Wake Forest University at Belk Turf Field. The ’Cats had their home game-winning streak snapped by the Longwood Lancers with a 2-1 loss on Saturday. The Wildcats struck first with a goal by forward Tyler Kirkland ’09 at 25 minutes into the game, assisted by forward Lauren Calve ’09. Kirkland’s second goal of the season tied her for the team lead in goals and also made her theCo-leader in points with six, Calve recorded her second assist of the year. The lead only lasted a minute as Longwood immediately answered with a goal of its own. The Lancers took a 2-1 lead into halftime as they scored just before the 30-minute mark. The loss was very disappointing as the Wildcats played very tough both offensively and defensively. Brittany Rollek ’09 had a great game with five saves on 11 shots by the Lancers. The Wildcats only had three shots and one penalty corner while Longwood had seven penalty corners. Britti Himelfarb ’09 had a breakaway chance at the equalizing goal when she was met by the Lancer goalie who was able to knock the ball away before a clean shot was taken. The loss brought Davidson’s home record to 2-1 and their overall record to 2-5. The Longwood Lancers are now 4-4 with three straight wins.

On Sunday, the Wildcats faced the Wake Forest Demon Deacons, the No. 1 ranked team in the country. They lost 4-1, although they played a great second half keeping the Deacons scoreless while netting a goal of their own. “We gave them a run for their money. We put a goal in, which was pretty spectacular,” said Himelfarb. “This game against Wake Forest was a big improvement over the last time we played them.” Christa Goeke ’09 recorded three saves in the game on fifteen shots by Wake Forest. Davidson recorded six shots and had only three penalty corners while the Demon Deacons had twelve. The lone ’Cats goal was by Kirkland who was able to score on a loose ball in front of the net. Her hard work certainly paid off as it was her third goal of the season, which gives her the team lead. Kirkland is now three for three on her scoring chances this year and has the team lead with eight points on the year. Midfielder Claire Perry ’11 had two shots and a great scoring opportunity on a bouncing ball in front of the net. Himelfarb, Lisa Landoe ’10, and Gray Robinson ’12 each recorded a shot. Wake Forest’s win brought them to 8-0, while the loss dropped the ’Cats to 2-6 and 2-2 at home. “It was pretty awesome to play the top team on our home turf, and if we play that way with the teams in our conference, we’re definitely going to win some games,” said Himelfarb.

The weekend was full of two very well-fought games. The girls tried their best and put pressure on Longwood and Wake Forest. “It was a great opportunity to get to play the number one team in the country,” Krista Jackson ’12 said. “We definitely beat Wake Forest in the second half.” The Wildcats will play Catawba on Friday at the Belk Turf Field at 7 p.m.

Pilgrim’s late goal saves ’Cats in first round of Nike Invitational

Defender Tyler Kirkland ’09 scored both goals last weekend and now leads the team in scoring. Tyler Kirkland scored two goals over the weekend, one each game against Longwood and No. 1 Wake Forest for the ’Cats. Kirkland leads the Wildcats with eight points and three goals through eight games. Yannick Pilgrim ’11 came through in crunch time with a game-tying goal with just under five minutes to play in regulation against UAB. Whitey Bolan ’09 assisted Pilgrim on the play as the ’Cats battled to a 2-2 tie.