Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

e oo Ali, President Tom Ross addresses students and faculty at the Rally for Change.

Walcott, from page 1

“You have to be valid for the audience you write for,” he said, suggesting that his work must necessarily reflect
his readership. During the question-and-answer period, one student asked how Walcott maintains his creativity after a lifetime of writing. Walcott
responded that he is always kept on his toes by the various arenas of art and literature in which he
is involved. Walcott finds that painting, plays, poetry, short fiction, and novels all offer different, enjoyable outlets for expression.

Another student asked if the varied forms Walcott uses for his writing interact with one another, or if he tries
to keep them separate. Walcott said that when he begins writing a piece of literature, he doesn’t know what type
of literature it will end up being. He believes this ambiguity is the beauty of literature. “I’ve arrived at a
point in my writing in which I don’t know whether it’ll be a poem or a play,” Walcott said. “It’s
a blessed thing.” Walcott is interested in how a writer grows and develops his writing without knowing where it will
lead.

“I’ve arrived at a point in my writing in which I don’t know whether it’ll be a poem or a
play.” - Derek Walcott

“Between his low raspy voice, sometimes dry sense of humor, and old age, Walcott may not have given the most
exciting recitation of poetry, but I soon realized that his poems had a voice of their own,” the student said.
“Once I really became intent on actually listening to what he was saying, I was mesmerized.”

On Monday, March 10, an officer was contacted via the officer cell phone by a Physical Plant employee informing that
a tree had fallen on a vehicle located behind Concord Road. The officer was advised that pictures had been taken.
It appeared that the strong winds from the storm made the tree fall on the vehicle, a Toyota Camry. The
officer noticed a minimal amount of damage to the car trunk and rear bumper. The vehicle was not struck by
the massive trunk of the tree, but by its limbs. No one was in the vehicle at the time of
the incident.

3/13/2008 10:07 a.m.

Lack of Available Computers

On Thursday, March 13, an officer met with an employee of Career Services to discuss what the employee believed was
unauthorized use of her desktop computer. The faculty member stated that within the last month, she has noticed numerous oddities
occurring within her office after she leaves in the afternoon. The faculty member stated that approximately three weeks ago, a
small square clock disappeared from an office table, and that someone went onto her computer and used the website Dump.com,
which is known to be used for pornography.

Walking on Broken Glass

On Monday, March 17, an officer was dispatched to a vehicle break-in located in Baker Sports parking lot. Upon arrival,
the officer noticed broken glass near the driver’s side window from a Mini Cooper. The officer was later met by
the driver of the vehicle. The owner stated that as she was entering her vehicle she was in possession of...

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.An empty glass jug, approximately one gallon in size, hit
the window with it, shattering the glass. The officer cleaned out the driver’s compartment as thoroughly as possible and used
cardboard and tape to cover the window opening. No further action was required.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19, 2008

Rally, from page 1

versus white or male versus female deal. It is a microcosm of a greater situation.” “Rally for Change” is aptly
named because it seeks not only to champion diversity in all forms, but also to advocate change in people’s attitudes
toward respecting, not just tolerating, diversity.

Last Thursday, over 200 students, faculty, and community members gathered outside in the Union Amphitheatre to discuss the fears underlying
diversity and listen to speakers. In addition to Dennis, they included Davidson Chaplain Rob Spach; Mike Parsons ‘08, former President
of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity and representative of Patterson Court; current and incoming student body presidents Burton and Davis Greene
‘09; and President Tom Ross. Many of the participants wore the event’s sponsored shirts featuring the quote: “Do I Make
You Uncomfortable?”—a phrase intended to promote discussion about the fears of diversity and resulting discrimination by probing questions.

Spach emphasized the commitment to diversity in Davidson’s published statement of purpose while Parsons discussed “white guilt” and “white silence,”
the belief that white people have no right to talk about race, and how those ideas do not help the
community grow but perpetuate a cycle of misconception and fear. Burton and Greene stressed the healing qualities of these discussions
for the community. By making them permanent issues on campus, these programs should help bring students together and make the
community stronger, they said.

Ross said discussions about the fears and values of diversity ultimately help us learn something about ourselves. “Although these discussions
are oftentimes tiresome,” he said, “if we care about each other and the community, we will persevere so that we
can learn about ourselves and each other and develop a greater respect and acceptance.”

After the formal speeches, the forum opened up for discussion. Comments came from both students and faculty and ranged from
the extent of diversity to personal identities. Several students pointed out that each person is different not just because of
race or sexual orientation but also because of their different interests and beliefs. We are all human beings, said one
senior student, and there is more to each of us than any term, such as “black,” “white,” “athlete,” “Christian,” could
encapsulate.

“We need to speak up,” he continued. “We are where we are today because of previous generations being angry about
something and speaking up about it. This generation doesn’t do that, but this [the Rally for Change] is a great
example.”

Overall, the rally stressed the importance of continued discussion on diversity so that the fears and misconceptions could be better
understood and eventually overcome. Although speakers acknowledged that the event would not end the issue, participants seemed determined to make
things better and develop a stronger and more open community that would make everyone feel welcome. The rally ended on
a high note with great excitement for the improved, stronger Davidson that the future may hold.
