10 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

The problem with fantasy sports

Curtis YOUNG
Staff Writer

I started playing fantasy football before it became a pop culture phenomenon. The first league that I played in was not on the Internet. We had to tabulate standings and scores ourselves. I held the title of “fantasy junkie” for years and loved the inclusion of fantasy sports into mainstream society. Now, I see it differently.

As an avid sports fan, I believe that fantasy sports are taking away from the games, the joy of fandom, and the love of sports. Many “fans” out there now have no true allegiances except to the random assortment of players that make up their fantasy rosters this week. It has become difficult to watch NFL pre-game shows because a large portion of their coverage is devoted to fantasy performances.

I saw the light two seasons ago. The Redskins (my team) were in the midst of a disappointing season, and my fantasy team was on the brink of greatness. I had the prize money in my grasp, and my favorite team became an afterthought. “Yeah, I'd like the Redskins to win,” I remember saying, “But what I really need is LaDainian Tomlinson to get me 16 points tonight.” That type of statement is common in today’s sports world. We have become so focused on the individual players that we have lost our focus on the actual teams.

I have spent the last two years avoiding fantasy sports. I have resorted to sites like Centsports.com, which feature a mock form of betting, to get in my competitive fix. Still though, I find myself tending to focus on individual players instead of their teams. It’s a growing national problem. We can see this even here at Davidson. While everyone here on campus recognizes the excellence of the basketball team (as a team!), the national media focuses almost exclusively on All-American Point Guard Stephen Curry ’10. By no means does Curry seek out the attention (in fact, he nearly always passes the credit elsewhere), and he deserves every accolade, but he does represent a growing focus on the individual in sports today.

While fantasy sports are the primary culprit, they were perpetuated by a gradual decline in people identifying players with their teams. In an age of free agency and trades, players almost never remain with the same team for an entire career. Even the transcendent stars of a sport, like the NFL’s Jerry Rice, often conclude their careers in unfamiliar uniforms. I would argue that fan loyalty is at a low point. Fantasy sports are currently the root of the problem. Fantasy players are often left with conflicting loyalties. Many fans watch a game hoping that their team will win, but that the opposing team’s star will have a great day. That simply should never happen. I am proud to say that, having given up fantasy sports, I never cheer for a player that is playing against my team.

Fantasy sports are not without their perks and their pluses. However, while an average fan may have only watched their team play each week, fantasy players often keep track of every game on the docket. Furthermore, many good-natured competitions are fostered through participation in fantasy leagues. Game day can become even more exciting when you have something personal, like the cash prize for a fantasy championship, riding on the game.

But as sports fans, we need to look at the complete situation. Our attention should be placed squarely on the teams in competition. Leagues like the NFL did not become immensely popular because people became fans of one particular player. Sure, leagues will always promote their stars, but they should do so merely as a way of representing the teams. Many people get tremendous enjoyment out of fantasy participation, but sports’ traditional values are lost in the shuffle. Sports are supposed to emphasize commitment, teamwork, enthusiasm, and sportsmanship. In many cases, these tenets are forgotten, and fantasy sports are a primary culprit.

Wildcats, from page 12
three pulled Davidson within 62-61 with 1:14 to play. And after recovering a Mountaineer shot deflected byLovedale, he drilled another dagger from beyond NBA range off the dribble to give the Wildcats a 64-62 lead. Curry hit two foul shots, with Stephen Rossiter ’09 and Bryant Barr ’10 each adding a free throw at the end to account for the final margin. Given Davidson’s #22 national ranking, the victories were not upsets, but the wins nevertheless provide closure to the Wildcats’ shortcomings last season against big-name opponents. Davidson lost to three ACC schools (including the Wolfpack) last season by a combined 11 points, and also dropped a decision against Final Four member UCLA after leading by 18. After falling earlier in the season against sixth-ranked Oklahoma, the ’Cats proved Saturday and Tuesday that they can win close games against big-name teams. The victories moved the Wildcats’ record to 7-1. Next on the slate for Davidson will be the Southern Conference opener against Chattanooga on Saturday at 7 p.m. in Belk Arena.

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2008

Their excitement translated into a dynamite performance. With double-doubles, the 'Cats maintained intensity and possession. After each Furman attempt, Lax and Robinson responded with key shots to keep the lead alive. Perhaps the most revealing moment of Davidson’s emotional play came after a questionably uncalled foul to Alex Thompson ’10. She had chipped her nose over the Thanksgiving games and was obviously in pain as the play knocked off her nose guard. The pain was apparent. She gritted and bore it, racing down the court and popping a nothing-but-net three. The emotional current from her performance held the team on top for the rest of the night.

The high kept going through Saturday against Charlotte at Belk Arena before the exam period begins. The 49ers jumped out to a 7-2 lead in the opening minutes and never trailed in the first half on their way to a 33-25 halftime advantage. Davidson trailed by as many as ten midway through the second half but battled back to take the lead with just over four minutes remaining. Charlotte responded with a 16-2 run to secure a 64-52 victory. Robinson led the ’Cats with 14 points.

The ensuing games over the break will provide both non-conference competition and a few more tastes of the SoCon schedule. The ’Cats return to the court when they host Western Carolina on December 14. Highlights over the holiday will include a trip to Cincinnati for games against Xavier and Cincinnati, and SoCon contests against UNC-Greensboro. For Robinson, the games will nurture more and more team growth, in the same fashion as the tough preseason. She said of the competition, “They are set not only for the future, but the team building and the same.”

Football (4-7, 3-5)
Men’s Basketball #22 (7-1, 0-0)
Swimming/Diving Men (1-4, 1-0)
Women’s Basketball (3-6, 2-0)
Wrestling (1-4, 0-1)
Women (2-4, 2-0)

Results:
11/15 vs. Butler W 46-34
12/6 vs. N.C. State W 72-67
12/2 vs. Furman W 67-57
12/9 vs. West Virginia W 68-65
Nike Invitational 12/6 @ App. St. W 95-75
12/6 Davidson Open

Next Up:
Men- 3rd -12/9 vs. Charlotte L 64-72
Season Complete
Next Up: Women- 5th
Next Up: 12/13 vs. Chattanooga
Next Up: 12/19 vs. Delaware State
12/19 vs. Delaware Valley

Notes: The football team finished their season with a 46-34 home victory over Butler on Senior Day. Ryan Alexander finished his career as Davidson’s all-time leader in passing yards and touchdowns.

Notes: Stephen Curry ’11 was named Southern Conference Player of the Week for the 11th time in his career following his 44-point performance against N.C. State.

Notes: The ’Cats have virtually a month off before returning to action for a tri-meet at Duke.

Notes: Alex Thompson ’10 earned Southern Conference Player of the Week honors after her 35-point outburst against Appalachian State led the Wildcats to a 2-0 start in SoCon play.

Notes: Vitaly Radsky ’11 won all five matches in the 141-pound weight division to claim his first career tournament title at the Davidson Open.