THE DAVIDSONIAN

Consolidated into one office, "wide" printer that uses recycled papers. This paper-saving measure promotes greater environmental awareness. Wildcat Den and refilling their own drinking vessels when buying a drink. The current so gigs said Phillips. She indicated an interest in planning for that.

Café changes menu
ALEX KOWALESKI
Staff Writer

This summer, the Union Café took significant steps to improve the food selection offered to students, as well as committing itself to contribute to Davidson’s desire for sustainability. Among the changes in the Union Café are the additions of two new menus, the expansion of foodstuffs offered in existing menus, and commonsense efforts to reduce the amount of waste produced.

One of the most fundamental changes to the Union Café this summer was the addition of menus for specialty wraps and salads, as well as signature sandwiches. In order to accommodate the creation of a station for specialty wraps and sandwiches, the salad bar was moved onto the floor of the café. According to Mike Henshaw, the Union Café manager, most of the items on the two new menus were first run as specials last year.

“The signature sandwich menu is partnered with La Patisserie in Mooresville, who produce a specialty line of breads for us,” Henshaw said. Also from La Patisserie, and now sold at the Union Café, are raspberry bars and crumb cakes. Henshaw said that the café will be experimenting with selling additional types of pastries throughout the year.

The Union Café’s existing menus also sport an increased number of entrees this fall. Among these are the Café Ranch Burger, a ground chuck burger topped with Muenster cheese, ranch dressing, onion rings, and bacon, and the chicken or burger in a bowl, which consists of a bed of salad greens in an edible hard tortilla shell filled with tomato, onion, sprouts, carrots, cheese, corn salsa, and guacamole, with chicken or burger topping. Rounding out the new entrees are a pastrami melt on a bagel and a chicken cordon bleu sandwich.

For health-conscious students, the Café has debuted a weekly side dish to provide a healthier option than the fried trio of French fries, onion rings, and mozzarella sticks. The first two side dishes this semester were broccoli and green beans.

The Union Café is also doing its part to contribute to Davidson’s goal of sustainability. 90 percent of paper products sold are now made of compostable or recyclable material, and Henshaw has overseen the reduction in the number of plastic bottles as the café eliminated bottled drinks that were also offered as fountain drinks, as well as removing all but one brand of orange juice. In another small commitment to Davidson sustainability, the daily special is now written on a whiteboard each day, instead of on paper.

The changes to the Union Café appear popular with students. The specialty wraps and sandwiches and the signature sandwiches are among the most popular items right now. “I really like the board with the daily written specials,” Alayne Kane ’11 said. “I never knew about the specials last year.” Kane “highly recommended” the Café Signature Cubano sandwich.

“The signature sandwich menu is partnered with La Patisserie in Mooresville.” -Mike Henshaw

Not all student reaction to the Union Café’s changes has been positive, however. Amanda Hansen ’11 said that the Café would be “better if they had the bread that is listed on the tickets.” According to Hansen, when she has visited, the Café often has “only two of the four breads they list.”

If students have any ideas for how the Union Café can be improved, or any foods that they would like added to the menu, Mr. Henshaw says the Café is open to suggestions.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2008

McCain electrifies RNC
CLINT SMITH
Staff Writer

Last Thursday, Senator John McCain accepted the Republican Party’s presidential nomination in front of thousands of cheering delegates with “gratitude, humility and confidence.” In perhaps his mostRousing speech yet, the Senator from Arizona stood in front of a screen with an American flag waving in the background and told the American people that he intended to “stand on your side and fight for your future.” In the speech, McCain once again presented himself as a political maverick, claiming that he was willing to take on anyone, whether Democrat, Republican, or Independent, for the betterment of the country. “I understand who I work for,” McCain said. “I don’t work for a party, I don’t work for a special interest, I don’t work for myself. I work for you.”

McCain also took time to acknowledge his rival’s incredible accomplishment in becoming the first African-American to lead a major party ticket, saying, “I wouldn’t be an American worthy of the name if I didn’t honor Senator Obama and his supporters for their achievement.” However, he claimed this achievement does not make the Illinois Senator qualified to lead this country. “I have that record and the scars to prove it,” McCain said. “Senator Obama does not.”

The most lively and fervent cheers came when McCain mentioned his running mate, Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, who had given a forceful and impassioned speech to the convention the previous night. “She knows where she comes from, and she knows who she works for,” McCain said. “She stands up for what’s right, and she doesn’t let anyone tell her to sit down. I’m very proud to have introduced our next vice president to the country, but I can’t wait until I introduce her to Washington.”

After being hard-pressed by many political commentators in regards to the issue of energy independence, McCain outlined what his plan would be if he were elected president. “We’re going to stop sending $700 billion a year to countries that don’t like us very much. We’ll attack the problem on every front. We'll produce more energy at home. We will drill new wells off-shore, and we’ll drill them now.” McCain continued to outline his plan, “We'll drill them now. We’ll build more nuclear power plants. We’ll develop clean-coal technology. We'll increase the use of wind, tide, solar, and natural gas. We’ll encourage the development and use of flex-fuel, hybrid,