6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Student-actor interaction in Munro’s ‘Work in Progress’

By JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Staff Writer

On Jan. 22, Davidson welcomed the Royal Shakespeare Company back onto campus with an honorary party in the College Union.
Students gathered over fondue and warm beverages to mingle and chat with the actors and other creative team members of
the group. This year represents the fifth Davidson residency of the group, which first came to campus in 2002 with
a performance of “The Merchant of Venice.” The RSC will be on campus for a longer period of time this
year to allow more student interaction. They plan on visiting various Theatre and English classes for their month-long visit.

Through student input, the writers and actors will finalize their play’s script, accurately described as “Work in Progress.” “Little Eagles”
focuses on the Space Race between the U.S. and the former Soviet Union. After speaking with students, the script will
be edited. The final script will be the result of the collaborative efforts and ideas from the writer, Rona Munro,
the actors, and feedback from Davidson students. Richard Clayton serves as the company’s manager. “By the end of the month,
we’re hoping to get the script in shape. Right now, it’s still in the skeletal stages and needs to be
beefed up,” he said.

Jeanie O’Haire, the RSC’s literary manager, helped to explain the idea behind “Work in Progress.” Students will be asked to
share their ideas on how plays are created, to describe the tough process behind writing a play and then putting
that play to life on stage. O’Haire’s main task is to serve as a liaison between the writer and the
director while helping to make sure the director’s vision does not clash with the writer’s original intentions. After communicating with
students, O’Haire explained, Rona Munro will continue to edit. Only when 80 percent of the script is complete will it
be given to the director.

Rona Munro began work on “Little Eagles” a year ago, while working for the RSC in the UK. Asked to
write a historical play, she had planned on focusing on NASA’s Apollo missions, but later changed her mind. “I wanted
to write about the early space race because it’s somewhat unknown,” Munro said. The play now bounces between actors who
play both Russians and Americans. The American plot focuses on the women that NASA trained during the early years of
its program, whereas the Russian side heavily addresses the launch of the satellite Sputnik. The finished play will be shown
in Duke Performance Hall Feb. 15, 16, and 17.

At the welcome party, Sherry Malushizky, director of the artist residency program at Davidson College, introduced the group to a
crowd of excited students and faculty. “We are honored and proud of this residency. This year it seems to be
evolving into one of the most interactive and collaborative experiences we’ve had,” she said.

Ask Audrey

By AUDREY
Staff Writer

Last week, I asked my readers to respond to this question: “What is the most unusual dating experience you have
ever had, and did it help the relationship or kill it?” I received many questions about the term “date.” By
that I simply mean a setting whereby you get to know someone better. You could classify it as just “hanging
out,” and it could even be with more than one person. Dating doesn’t deserve, nor does it need, tons of
romantic pressure. Sometimes we forget that dates are meant not to be perfect. I think these stories will loosen up
your concept of “dating” and allow you really to enjoy your “dates.”

“I had been dating a guy for 5 months. I went to visit him and his family, but there...of the
most educational residencies yet,” she said. With an entire month devoted to class interaction and workshops, Davidson students will have
the rare opportunity to participate in the creation and production of a play.

Crazy dates mean memorable times. One problem... his mother liked to pretend we weren’t dating. When we decided to go
see one of my favorite and most romantic movies during my visit, his mother came along and sat between him
and me. Then, even though I knew she didn’t want to, she changed seats to let me sit next to
him. I tried to hold his hand, but instead, he whispered that we couldn’t act like we were dating in
front of his mom! I flew all the way to see him, only to hold his pinky.

Another story details that “In high school, one teacher asked us to go on a walk with someone we wanted
to get to know better in a part of town we had never been in before. I decided to go
to the Mexican district of my town with this guy in my class who was cute and really smart. I
decided I wanted to show him all the wild ingredients that are in some Mexican dishes. I took him over
to see the intestines and many other pieces of meat in the grocery store. Let me tell you, it was
some sexy stuff to look at! Regardless, we had a great conversation and got lost because we weren’t even paying
attention to where we were going. That was one of the best homework assignments I had in high school!”

One reader writes, “I dated a guy named James in high school. Soon the day came when I got to
meet his mother. I didn’t know anything about her, except that she was an artist. She looked really familiar but
I couldn’t figure out where I knew her from. Then the realization hit us at the same time... A few
years ago I had taken a figure-drawing class with undraped models and she had been my teacher. She had been
there watching me awkwardly draw images of naked models for a good two months and now I was currently dating
her son. Awkward... but it ended up just being good for a laugh.”

A final responder relates, “When I was a freshman in boarding school, I had a huge crush on my brother’s
roommate Mike. Mike was a great guy and also an intense vegan. One weekend I went with my brother, his
roommate, and some friends to the boardwalk and we ate pizza before going to the amusement park. I had pepperoni
pizza while he ate some sort of vegan sandwich. At the park, we went on a bunch of rides before
everyone wanted to go on “The Gravitron.” I decided to go on the kiddie Ferris wheel instead. Mike volunteered to
go on the Ferris wheel with me, and I was ecstatic. We were going around very slowly, admiring the scenery
and talking. Then the ride started going backwards. I began to feel nauseated, so I turned to him and said
“I think I’m going to be sick!” right as I threw up my pepperoni pizza all over him and his
vegan-ness. Nothing romantic ever happened between us, but we are still very good friends to this day.”

Thank you so much for your stories this week! Here is next time’s question: What is the best dating experience
you have had? Or more broadly, what has been the best setting or experience for you to get to know
someone?
