a “ee ee” n> WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2008 DAVIDSON COLLEGE @ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” 

Students and faculty enjoy barbeque at the “Kappa Kooloff,” sponsored by Kappa Alpha Psi, last Saturday.

Town maps development
ANDREW EVANS
Staff Writer

The area around Davidson is experiencing a tremendous amount of population and economic growth. In order to systematically plan for this growth, the town of Davidson has hired the Rhodeside & Harwell consulting group. This first step was announced in a press release on September 9.

“This plan is essential for the town and will provide a road map for town government and residents as we look to the future to meet the needs of our citizens,” Kris Krider, Davidson Planning Director, said in the release.

According to Lauren Blackburn, a Town Planner, the idea for a comprehensive plan for the town of Davidson has been around since the mid-90s. Also, section two of the Planning Ordinance, which was ratified in 2001, has a place for a comprehensive plan. The page, however, is blank. The town’s planning ordinance is very strong and has allowed the town to put off creating a comprehensive plan, although the town is now getting to the point where it needs a vision for how it is going to develop.

When asked about who has pushed for a comprehensive plan, Blackburn indicated that this blank section in the ordinance has been speaking for itself. She also said that Mr. Krider has been pushing for it for four to five years and that the planning committee has likewise supported the plan.

According to the press release, 13 different consulting teams were considered for the job, but Rhodeside & Harwell’s team has “familiar knowledge about local issues,” Sara-Lynne Levine, Communications Director for the town, said. This “familiar knowledge” comes from two members of the consulting team: Wade Walker, a current citizen of the town, and Meredith Judy, a former Davidson citizen and former town planner.

The purpose of this comprehensive plan is to “tie together all the other existing plans” as a sort of “umbrella of all the plans” in order to “map [the] growth of [the] town,” Levine said. Blackburn said that any con-

See Town, page 2

Guroian discusses Orthodox Christianity
see NEWS, PAGE 2

EAC promotes political action
MEIKAELA ZWIERYZNSKI
Staff Writer

In efforts to increase awareness and concern for environmental issues in the current presidential election, Davidson College’s Environmental Action Committee (EAC) is teaming up with PowerVote.org to unite young people across the nation behind the increasingly important cause.

PowerVote.org is a non-partisan environmental effort led by the national Energy Action Coalition and over forty partner organizations. The group is focusing its efforts and resources on attracting young people across the nation to “vote for clean and just energy” through its Power Vote Pledge program.

Power Vote hopes to attract one million young voters by Election Day to demand that the new

Charlotte’s homeless
JESSE JOHNSON, Jr.
Staff Writer

Last Thursday, the United Community Action organization (UCA), a service group on campus, brought individuals from the Urban Ministry Center (UMC) to speak. The UMC is an inter-faith organization dedicated to helping the homeless. The UCA sponsored the “Faces of Homeless Panel,” where two homeless individuals, John and Gwen, from Charlotte came to speak of their experiences and answer questions.

John and Gwen were inspiring in their short time speaking with students. They have been together for 20 years and married for four. AtThe panel, the couple informed students of their situation. The two have been homeless for about a year and four months. John once was a chef, but after two heart attacks and being diagnosed with diabetes, he had to take nine pills and two injections a day, which ultimately caused him to lose his job. John became weak and unable to afford Medicare. Gwen worked the night shift at the airport part-time, something she was not used to, and one day she was caught sleeping on the job and was fired. The couple informed everyone that one of the reasons they are homeless is because of the Medicare system.

“We are out here because the system is too slow. I’ve been turned down three times for disability, but we just have to roll with the punches,” John said. However, John and Gwen were not here to make people feel bad for them, but to inform. “You are tomorrow’s people,” John said. “We are here to embed a seed in your heart so that when you get a job and can help [others], you'll know where the greatest need is.” John informed the room that Medicare does not pay for everything, “Just think you guys are going to be old too, and if they do not fix social security you might not have any to begin with.”

The couple does not have a home to go to at night, but a sidewalk. Their nights become more difficult when it rains, when the homeless resort to a bridge, which is the only time homeless individuals are allowed under the bridge. The only difference between John and a Davidson student is that, “You have a key to put into a door at night. We work and shower too.” In North Carolina, if a person has a felony, they cannot get a job.

The power of the youth vote has been a focus of the current election, but has been approached very differently by the two presidential candidates. While the success of the Obama campaign seemingly depends on the young voter turnout and grassroots efforts, many would argue that the McCain camp has yet to truly target voters age 18-24. However, it is undeniable that the youth vote could have a major impact on the outcome of the election, and Power Vote hopes to tap into that potential. The website cites that voters 18-31 years of age currently make up one-fourth of the electorate, and that this number will increase to represent one-third of the electorate by 2015.

Although personal concern for the environment may drive many people to support the cause, Power Vote cites practical reasons for becoming a part of the movement towards a nation running on green energy. In the midst of the nation’s current financial crisis, the economy is an obvious and serious concern for all Americans. Power Vote states that “investing in a clean energy future will create millions of jobs” during a time when young people are suffering most from unemployment and a struggling economy. “There is an increasing sense of investment that [young] people have in these issues,” EAC President Josh Carson ’09 said. Carson noted that this change...

See EAC, page 3

Men and women race to top five

See SPORTS, PAGE 12