Classes received frantic phone calls and text messages from friends, those off-campus. For the afternoon, rushed to computers and sidewalks buzzed with activity. Granted, the unprecedented offer came amidst a time of extreme high spirits and excitement, but this campus gave new meaning to the idiom “good news travels fast.” Then, in the space of another few hours, outrage turned to flying rumors about the number of students able to attend the games and outrageous conceptions of administrative deception. Two weeks later, we all recognize the enormous capacity our small school has to spread news, be it substantiated or not. The college’s future, though, ultimately became a source of another type of rumor on campus. Some students began insisting that more than 500 incoming freshmen had already committed to Davidson, with more streaming in every day. Chief among student concerns, which included increased crowds leading to longer lines at Commons, was next year’s housing situation. Sarcastic suggestions staff overheard included new dorms on the cross-country trails, tents on the PCC lawn, or stashing freshmen in Base Chamber. There is, after all, an unused fallout shelter down there. Beneath these rather unhelpful suggestions resides a reasonable concern. If we guarantee first-year housing, and an exceptional number of students decide to attend next fall, what does that mean for those of us already committed to dorms like Sentelle or Belk? Many students expressed fear that they would be forced into alternate housing, possibly even off-campus. Others insisted that the townhouses would be sold, or that Richardson’s renovations wouldn’t be finished by summer’s end.

After speaking to Patty Perillo on Monday about these rumors, we found them to be largely just that: rumors. While certainly an engaging topic of conversation, at this point, hold off on speculation or worries. The administration plans to meet this issue if a large amount of incoming freshmen do commit to this school. Our recommendation is multi-levels of hammocks in the dome. It’s just empty space anyways.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl

Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Katherine Miller

News Editors
Nina Mace & Kate Kelly

Perspectives Editors
Aarón Van Oudenaren & Matt Petit

Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Errington & Caroline Wood

Yow! Editors
James Boswell & Alex Hoyt

Sports Editors
Photography Editor
Ben Ellinor

Copy Editor
Gretchen Hoffman

Business, Advertising and Circulation Managers
Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Jamie Hofmeister

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondence to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 718, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. Phone (704) 892-2000. Email: davidsonian@davidson.edu. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00.

By TEDDY SCHLANGER
Guest Columnist

Last week, STAND, a student anti-genocide coalition, hosted events to raise awareness of the situation in Darfur and stimulate activism. Events included a power-hour of letter-writing to President Bush, the presidential candidates, and members of Congress; a speech by Carl Wilkens, the only American who experienced the 1994 Rwanda genocide; a vigil and a concert, which has been rescheduled to April 19 due to rain. These events coincided with the Week of Action, observed by 15 other North Carolina colleges and universities. The Week of Action was also designed as a springboard for the Sudan Divestment Petition sponsored by STAND and SGA. SGA President Davis Greene will present the petition to the Board of Trustees on Thursday.

Targeted divestment is a strategy aimed at the two or three dozen companies flagged by the Sudan Divestment Task Force as worst-offender companies for doing business with the Sudanese government. All worst-offender companies meet three criteria: First, they do significant business with the Sudanese government. Most are Chinese and Indian oil companies, including Chinese oil giant PetroChina—which recently surpassed ExxonMobil as the world’s largest company, with a cumulative share value of over $1 trillion. Second, their business does not benefit the citizens of Sudan. Approximately 70 percent of Sudanese oil revenue goes toward military spending, essentially providing the arms and manpower to perpetuate the genocide in Darfur. Third, these companies are doing nothing to encourage the government of Sudan to end its violent ways.

With these facts in mind, the members of STAND and leaders of the SGA are collecting signatures for a petition asking the trustees to divest, or sell shares of stock, in these worst-offender companies in our endowment. As of the most recent student review of stockholdings in the endowment shows, most of this stock is in Sinopec Group, another Chinese oil company, whose value in our endowment totals about $260,000. The divestment movement at Davidson will contribute to withholding funding from the government of Sudan. Additionally, it has enormous symbolic importance by aligning the college with the national divestment movement.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 2008

Since 2004, 25 states have divested their employee pension funds, including California and North Carolina. Additionally, 60 colleges and universities—including all of the Ivies, the University of North Carolina, and our own Davidson College—have committed to divestment.liberal arts peers Bowdoin, Amherst, and Middlebury—have divested their endowments. Furthermore, the success of divestment at the state government and grassroots levels led Congress to pass two divestment bills almost unanimously in 2007. These included SADA, the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act, which provides legal authorization for states wishing to divest and prevents companies that do business with Sudan from receiving new government contracts. Students can sign the petition in print at our table on the bottom floor of the Union or online by following the petition’s link in the Crier.

Recently, in response to the divestment movement, the Sudanese government took out a $900,000 full-page ad in ‘The New York Times’ encouraging Americans to invest in Sudan. Clearly, Sudan recognizes the effectiveness of this campaign: it is time for all Americans to recognize it as well. The prospect of joining this huge national movement provides Davidson with a wonderful opportunity to support human rights and political justice that are currently being ignored in Sudan. Following the Holocaust, national leaders adopted the slogan “Never Again,” signifying that the United States would never allow the recurrence of genocide on its watch. Unfortunately, events in Cambodia in the 1970s, Rwanda in 1994, Serbia throughout the 1990s, and Darfur currently demonstrate that this promise was at best half-hearted. Your signature on this petition will help to ensure that our nation will finally fulfill its promise to act for the protection of those in the international community who have no voice. Students can sign the petition in print at our table on the bottom floor of the Union or online by following the petition’s link in the Crier.

Teddy Schlanger ’08 is a History major from Washington, D.C. Contact him at teschlanger@davidson.edu.

Clinton's policies threaten American Dream

Politics abhors a vacuum. As such, Hillary Clinton has assumed John Edwards’ populist mantle in the campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination. Doing so has enabled her to consolidate support among the working class. Fortunately for Sen. Clinton, this constitutes a significant part of the Democratic electorate in Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Indiana. Thus, she has prevented, and may continue to prevent, Barack Obama from unifying the Democratic Party around his candidacy.

From a strategic perspective, it makes sense for Clinton to embrace populism as her political creed. Yet from a philosophical and economic perspective, Clinton’s populist platform violates the traditions that have made America great. Sen. Clinton recently stated that, “The American dream is premised on a growing