fail to RSVP SEE PAGE 11

Psych professor cognitively processes what a Long sleeve shirt enthusiast enjoys recent weather

THE YOWL
Your Davidsonian Honor Section Editors: James Boswell, Alex Hoyt

The Palm wasn’t taking reservations, and Morton’s just got a new chef. So for now, why don’t we just stick with the Western Sizzlin’? After all, you’re Jesse Lyons.

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

_THE DAVIDSONIAN
THE LAST CRUSADE
UBI ORTA UBERTAS
DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

It's just barbeque sauce. I want to make ou

April 30, 2008

Sig Ep War Criminals to Be Tried in John “Big” Brother, Nuremberg, Palestine, The Hague

Finally, those nefarious, inhumane SPEs will be brought to justice. In the wake of the worst crime perpetrated against pledges, and possibly humanity, in the 21st century, several of the most complicit Sigma Phi Epsilon war criminals are scheduled to appear before international courts of justice in both Europe and the Middle East.

In an act Elie Wiesel described as a “sociological travesty,” a handful of fraternity brothers directed trivial banter at their new members in a shocking display of bonhomie. The crime transpired on the forever memorialized Self-Selection Night now seared in the collective conscience of a nation. They delivered the words, as one traumatized witness put it, at decibel levels probably higher than those of regular conversation.

The perpetrators face lengthy prison sentences, death by firing squad or, in some cases, social probation. The house will almost certainly be placed on “Double Secret Probation.”

When asked about the future of Sig Ep and the possibility of such atrocities being committed in the future, Davidson RLO coordinator and international war tribunal justice Robert Brand solemnly shook his head. “Never again,” he said. “Never again.”

Relationship progressing really nicely in guy’s mind

Eternally awkward sophomore Jason Green has never had a girlfriend. But after a recent encounter in the Chambers hallway, he might be headed in that direction. Green has had a massive crush on junior history major Rachel Anderson for several months, but he has struggled to initiate a meaningful conversation. In fact, until Wednesday afternoon, he'd been too afraid to make eye contact with her.

That all changed as he was walking out of his 1:30 Spanish class. “She was walking in, I was walking out, and after we nearly ran into each other, there was nothing I could do but look up,” he said, staring into the distance. “She met my gaze with the most beautiful smile and head nod these eyes have ever seen.”

Green rambled on incoherently for several minutes at this point, mentioning something about Cary Elwes' performance in “Princess Bride.” From what we were able to decipher, Anderson simply ducked past Green after she melted his knees. According to several onlookers, Green didn't exactly respond like Rico Suave: “The dude just kinda stood there with his mouth hanging open,” said eyewitness Charlie Nix. “I think he even drooled a little bit.”

Despite his salivation issues, Green seems to think this is a sign of things to come: “Well, I don't want to jump to conclusions, but I think this could be the start of something big. There was this, electricity, between us. I can't describe it.”

Green did say he doesn't plan to rush into anything. His next move is to play it safe and see if he can't get her to mouth him “Hey” the next time they see each other.other. After that, he might attempt a wink. Lecherous misogynist, dead at 64 John “Big” Brother, the wanton womanizer who allegedly seduced four generations of Davidson freshman girls, and whose sexploitations provided the basis for the now-defunct “Big Brother/Little Sister” program, died of syphilis yesterday in his Jamieson apartment. He was 64 years old. Long regarded as Davidson’s gamest bon vivant, the rakish Mr. Brother exhibited a life-long passion for opera, sonnets, skeet, and backgammon, though he was always most in his element when seducing lithe young debutantes. He slept with girls in virtually every position on every hall, a feat that both resonated with a generation of handsome young devils and, more than any other, greatly influenced the social consciousness of his era.

Alternative Break: Heart of Darkness Sophomore John Marlow just got back from his Spring Break trip, which he spent deposing a renegade American colonel in the foothills of Afghanistan.

Mia Hamm shown yellow card for faking orgasm A romantic evening ended in controversy as Mia Hamm, all-time leading scorer of the U.S. Women’s National Team, was yellow-carded for blatantly faking an orgasm. After 45 minutes of tense, fruitless lovemaking with spouse Nomar Garciaparra, Hamm began to quiver and moan with such skill that even her husband was fooled. Ever-vigilant peeping Tom referee Pierre Luigi Collina, however, was not. The bald, bug-eyed Italian official immediately appeared in the window, sternly brandishing the yellow card. Hamm, long held as a role model for integrity in sports, declined to comment.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 2008 The Davidsonian

Signing emails with my last name makes me uncomfortable Seldom called by his first name, Greg Schwartz faces an interesting dilemma every time he emails. Like many people in America, I am called primarily by my last name, Schwartz. Don't get me wrong, there are still a select few people who call me Greg: my parents, professors, that girl with the huge unibrow from my accounting class (just shave the damn thing, it's pretty simple). Sometimes when my girlfriend gets really annoyed with me, she calls me Gregory, but other than that, it's all Schwartz. Or, depending on how well you know me, any number of the following: Schwartzy, the Schwartzenneger, Schwotz, Schitz, etc.

Some people are just blessed with a last name that demands principal usage. What a lot of people don't know, however, is that we last-namers wrestle with a serious dilemma every time we send an email: do I sign the email with my first name or my last name? I mean, how presumptuous is it to sign an email with your last name? You think Peter Abelard ever polished one of those juicy letters to Heloise with a cute “Lardy” sign off? Of course not! He wasn't a last-namer! But if he had been, then he'd know exactly where I'm coming from. You see, all my friends would find it odd if I signed one of my hilariously witty emails “Greg.” I don't even think all of them know my first name is Greg. But to me, it's just downright awkward to refer to myself by my last name. Do I yell “Come on Schwartzy!” whenever I brick a three? No, I never brick threes, are you kidding me. But you know what I'm talking about. Those of you last-namers know exactly what I’m getting at, but for everyone else, let this be a lesson to you all. I feel slightly uncomfortable whenever I send an email. Just thought you should know.