14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By NATHAN BRADSHAW

Perspectives Editor Emeritus Alex Hoyt wrote last week that Stylus botched their list, as he predicted he might do his.
Well, he did. Not one bloody superhero film? Clearly the man is certifiable (if not for that, then for the
fact that he asked me to write this article). Hoyt, Davidson, America: Here is the only list you need.

1) “Spider-Man 2” (Sam Raimi, 2004). Despite accusations of cartoonish special effects, melodrama, and Tobey Maguire’s continual teenage voice-crackdom, this
sequel breaks the Hollywood rule that all second films are worse than their predecessors. Not only does the film effectively
capture the feel, character, and conflict present throughout Spidey’s now-45 years in comic books, but it delivers a fantastic look
at a hero’s life after he makes “the big decision,” daring to question how to live with that decision on
an everyday basis.

2) “The Incredibles” (Brad Bird, 2004). Disney finally proved it will not be relegated to 12 cable channels, Pixar did
some of their best animation to date, Craig T. Nelson resuscitated his career for the umpteenth time, and our “everybody’s
special” kindergarten-candy-giving-grade-inflating-bleeding-heart-liberal society got the kick in the pants that it needed. Unfortunately, the politicians were all watching “Troy” and
rabble-rabbling about how war is bad, so they missed out on this gem. Bird wrote and directed a script that
shows every aspect of not a super family, but a family that is super. Quit treating it like a children’s
popcorn film and you will find yourself stunned at the intellectual discourse and emotional pull in this underrated classic-to-be.

3) “Batman Begins” (Christopher Nolan, 2005). O dear Lord, let us now give thanks for a costume without rubber nipples.
Let us give thanks, too, for actors who act, special effects that are special, and movies that move. Because between
the Jack Nicholson performance as the Joker in 1989 and this reboot, the name of Batman got sullied in black
leather, fetish armor, and villains who did not make jokes, but who, in fact, were jokes. Any hero trained by
Liam Neeson has my stamp of approval; any film with Gary Oldman, Morgan Freeman, and Michael Caine all aiding Christian
Bale—well that just rules. Please note that this list is subject to change pending the release of “The Dark Knight,”
in which I anticipate seeing Heath Ledger give the best (and tragically last) performance of his career.

4) “V for Vendetta” (James McTeigue, 2005). After the failure of the anti-hero in such bombs as Ang Lee’s “Hulk”
and Jonathan Hensleigh’s “The Punisher,” V provided a breath of fresh air. I must disagree with comic book writer Alan
Moore’s assessment that the film did not warrant his support; despite action sequences that need a Wachowski™ mark after them,
the treatment of the graphic novels is inspired, concise, and utterly effective. V is tragically sympathetic and chillingly cruel. The
state is terrifying in its potential to be just around our own corner. And the story is explosively powerful. If
I ever join a revolution, I want a guy like V in charge of it.

5) “X2: X-Men United” (Bryan Singer, 2003). Another exception to the rule of atrocious sequels. Singer is a masterful storyteller,
always keeping his audience just barely off-balance and guessing about characters’ motivations until the crucial moment, at which point something
explodes and the choices they make in a split-second change their lives. The cast is an all-star roster, none of
whom treats a character like a child’s toy for a second. The plot twists and turns and is faithful to
comic lore, while original and unique.And unlike the first installment, characters have been established, so instead of revealing their deep,
dark secrets, they can slash through a special ops unit or unleash iron spheres as pinballs of carnage and we
nerds in the crowd can sit back and say “Coooool.”

6) “Batman Beyond: Return of the Joker” (Curt Geda, 2000). If you agree with anything I have ever said, ever
(and I talk a lot), watch this movie. Saturday morning cartoons meet Alfred Hitchcock and have a child raised by
Titus Andronicus. To borrow from a DC rival, ’nuff said.

7) “Superman Returns” (Bryan Singer, 2006). Well, his tights are still goofy, his dialogue still sucks, his alter-ego is still
lame unless, as Bill of “Kill Bill” mentions, it’s actively commenting on an outsider’s impression of the human race. But
Kevin Spacey is an excellent villain—comic, yet terrifying, in a manner reminiscent of Nicholson’s Joker. And since James Marsden had
little to do on the set of “X3,” he joined Singer and got to act with his whole face (and,
in so doing, made the film electrifying). I have little to say about Brandon Routh and Kate Bosworth except that,
for kids, they’re not bad actors. The Marvel vs. DC vid on YouTube is right, though... Supes needs something other
than kryptonite, kryptonite, and more kryptonite to challenge him.

8) “X-Men” (Bryan Singer, 2000). As the film that kicked off a millennium that, thus far, has been all about
the superheroes in tights, “X-Men” deserves kudos and a blessing from those of us who love our epic battles. Operating
on a shoestring budget with too little time, Singer made a film that comic book fans everywhere can call “theirs”
with great pride. As we often forget when considering superpowers, the human race is not tolerant of those who are
different. This film is a grim reminder, as well as a warning about the dangers of intolerance, and generally a
bad-ass action flick.

9) “Spider-Man” (Sam Raimi, 2002). The question: Who am I? The answer: an out-of-shape college senior. Who do I want
to be? Spider-Man. Philosophical discourses battling out the philosophies of FDR and Hitler are always fun, but when you can
do it in costumes and flying/web-slinging about New York, you are a clear winner. Spider-Man is everybody’s hero—if you can’t
identify with him, put your resume out because humanity is sending you a pink slip.

10) “Snakes on a Plane” (David R. Ellis, 2006). The only time Sam Jackson comes in 10th on any list.
He didn’t need to show me his wallet this time—I already could tell he was a bad mother. The elements
here are just too perfect: snakes, a plane, and Samuel L. Jackson. It ranks this low only because it is
disappointing on the small screen. When the re-release happens (and you know it will) I will be first in line.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 2008

1. Jupiter, Saturn, Mercury, Uranus, and Neptune
2. Midnight Blue
3. Dos Equis
4. Grenadine
5. Elle Fanning
6. C. Patrick Dempsey
7. Jimmy Carter
8. Oak trees (because they are so tall)
9. “Guiding Light”
10. Barbara Millicent Roberts
11. George Gipp
12. Voyager II
13. Chelsea
14. Richard Hatch
15. Australia
16. Four
17. Hitler
18. “Casablanca”
19. No opening credits. Lucas was promptly fined by the Directors Guild of America.
20. Charlize Theron (Best Actress) for role in “Monster” (2003)
21. Uruguay
22. Clocks
23. Andes Mountains
24. Richard Hatch
25. Australia
