DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2008

VOLUME 99, NUMBER 16

Alumni resurrect past dialogues in documentary

Craig Detweiler ’85 and John Marks ’85 discuss their documentary “Purple State of Mind” in Hance Auditorium. The film depicts conversations on God, the meaning of life, and the state of the world.

JULIA EDWARDS
Staff Writer

Craig Detweiler ’85 and John Marks ’85 have never allowed taboo or politically correct barriers to hinder their conversations with each other about their beliefs regarding God, the meaning of life, and the state of the world.

Last Thursday, the two alumni brought the ongoing discussion back to its birthplace for the premiere of the documentary “Purple State of Mind,” to a standing-room-only audience in Hance Auditorium. From here, they will encourage the rest of the country to join the conversation.

The movie centers around four of Craig and John’s conversations that were recorded in Los Angeles, Davidson, Dallas, and New York City over the course of 2005. While Craig and John confess that their locations for meetings were purely matters of convenience, the regions they selected helped to create the “purple state of mind” by bridging the gaps between red and blue states. Craig and John believe the vast majority of Americans live somewhere in between “red” and “blue.”

“As Americans, we are now experiencing so much of the same things, yet there is a growing divide,” Marks said. “As long as we’re all living here together, we can’t just go to our separate corners. We need to be trying to understand people that don’t see the same way.”

Craig agreed, adding that the last 8-10 years have been terrible for the Christian faith. He said that after the 2004 election, he was “profoundly disturbed by gloating in the Christian community.”

While the two believe in the

See Alumni, page 4

Key player in endowment growth remembered

By KATHERINE MILLER
Managing Editor

Most students only have a vague concept of how Davidson’s endowment is managed. Even fewer students personally work with the college staff that is responsible for the development and building of this crucial asset. That is why most students on campus were not aware that Burton Hudson passed away last Monday.

Hudson, who served as the Director of Investments for 20 years as of October 2007, contributed greatly to the endowment growth and his devotion should not escape our notice. He retired January 2008, shortly before his death on Feb. 4.

When Hudson began working at the College in 1987, the college’s endowment hardly compared to those of Davidson’s peer institutions, totaling around just $66 million.

By Dec. 31, 2007, Davidson’s endowment grew to an estimated $504 million.

This substantial growth is due in large part to Hudson’s efforts. Hudson brought his own experience and ideas to the process; he had “a certain creativity and technique that worked very well in helping to build our investments,” Vice President for Business and Finance Dr. Karen L. Goldstein said.

Hudson worked with Goldstein, the college’s investment advisors, Cambridge Associates, and the Trustee Investment Committee in formulating investment policy, deciding on asset allocation, and hiring and firing investment managers.

“Burton was very much a Southern gentleman,” Goldstein said. His colleague continued, saying that Hudson’s gentility and politeness were key character traits which served him well in business.

Endowments our size do not generally get the opportunity to invest in “alternative investments,” i.e. private equity, venture capital, or hedge funds.

Hudson used his personable qualities for the endowment’s advantage; through good contacts and gentle persistence, Hudson managed to get Davidson into investments that no other endowment our size has been able to do.

Consequently, the performance of our endowment compares to that of much larger endowments. Davidson’s Investment Objective for the endowment fund is “sustainable and increasing level of endowment support for the college’s annual operating budget, while preserving the inflation-adjusted purchasing power of the endowment exclusive of gift additions.”

Not only was Hudson “very much committed to the success of Davidson” according to Goldstein, but he also worked directly with a small group of students involved in the Davidson Investment Financial Association (DIFA).

DIFA, chartered in 1999, gives students the opportunity to participate actively in the endowment and real-world experience: members manage $200,000 of the endowment.

Under Hudson’s guidance, the club was founded on the principle of education and the college’s need for an effective and unique way to educate the student body about the stock market.

Hudson’s great work and personality will be missed. Robert Burton Hudson Jr. was born Aug. 20, 1944, in Salisbury, N.C. and is survived by his wife, Robin Booth Hudson, and his two sons, Robert Burton Hudson II and Richard Bradley Hudson.

A memorial service was held at Davidson College Presbyterian Church on Feb. 7.

Burton Hudson, Director of Investments for 20 years, passed away on Feb. 4. He was a pivotal force in college fundraising.

INSIDE: PERSPECTIVES: The stressed out “O.C.” generation PAGE 9

Blackout Belk

see SPORTS, PAGE 12