_ "I'm not naive enough to think that many of you THE DAVIDSONIAN ~ By Curtis YOUNG Guest Writer Full
disclosure: I have spent my entire life in Texas, Virginia, or North Carolina and have only once traveled north of
New York City. I grew up watching ACC basketball and football and can count on one hand the number of
times I have ever picked up a hockey stick. In Richmond, Va., my home for 19 years, we have only
a mediocre minor league hockey team that I have not watched since I was 12 years old.

Let's face it, we are in the Southeast. I don't expect many of you to know or care about NHL
players or teams. You have probably never given hockey a second look when flipping through the sports section or surfing
ESPN.com.

For most of us, the players are not recognizable and to the untrained eye it is nearly impossible to keep
track of who is on the ice at any given time. Few could tell me who Alexander Ovechkin is (he
is the likely MVP). There are few American heroes in hockey, and not many of us actually believe that a
sport on ice in the American south makes sense. After all, most of us did not grow up with a
neighborhood frozen pond.

In spite of our common, hockey-less histories, I hope to convince you that this season's National Hockey League playoffs, already
underway, are worth tuning into. I want to offer you three reasons to give these playoffs a chance, and maybe
a combination of the three will compel you to take a few minutes to give it a shot (no pun
intended).

First, the National Hockey League made several rule changes to increase the speed and scoring.

Baseball (10-24, 2-13) Track and Field SPORTS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 23, 2008

Baseball picks up one more win By Ray FRANCIS Staff Writer The Davidson baseball team lost two of its three
games against Georgia Southern over the weekend, salvaging a 7-6 victory on Sunday while falling 10-4 on Friday and 20-2
on Saturday. Ty Martin hit the first pitch of Friday's game out of the ballpark for the Eagles, the first
of his three RBIs on the day. Jeremiah Parker joined in on the act by hitting a three-run home run
and added two more RBIs in the game. Aside from the power hitting, the Eagles also managed to steal six
bases. Brett Shore '09 went 4-4 and scored two runs to lead the 'Cats to victory on Sunday against the
Eagles. Danny Weiss '11 drove in Hugh Eden '08 with a single and then scored on a fielder's choice from
Tommy Piacenza '10 to give the Wildcats a brief 2-1 advantage in the initial frame. However, in the top of
the third inning Griffin Benedict's groundout was nullified by catcher interference, robbing Davidson of the inning's final out. Parker came
up next, and his homer gave the Eagles a lead they would not relinquish. Drew Murray got the win for
Georgia Southern after going five innings and giving up three runs and five hits. Thomas Middour was saddled with the
loss after giving up six runs (three earned) and eight hits through five innings.

McKillop's crew By Patrick MCARDLE Sports Editor Bob McKillop and his assistants Matt Matheny, Jim Fox, Tim Sweeney, and Jeremy
Henney will be honored as Co-Grand Marshals for the NASCAR Sprint All-Star Race at Lowe's Motorspeedway on May 17. As
part of their duties, McKillop and company will attend the NASCAR drivers' meeting, be introduced during pre-race ceremonies, and join
selected Sprint customers to say the customary kick-off: "Gentlemen, start your engines." Along with the Davidson coaching staff, Hugh Rowland,
star of The History Channel's "Ice Road Truckers," will also be a VIP guest during the NASCAR Sprint All-Star Race
weekend activities. Rowland will be on hand to promote season two of his series, which documents the lives of tractor-trailer
truck drivers as they haul cargo across frozen lakes north of the Arctic Circle. The race will be televised on
SPEED at 7 p.m. Tickets to the event start at $30.

Women's Lacrosse (10-5) 4/19 Irwin Belk Invitational 4/15 vs. Wake Forest Won 9-34/18 vs. Ga. Southern Lost 4-10
4/19 vs. Ga. Southern Lost 2-20
4/20 vs. Ga. Southern Won 7-6 (Davidson, N.C.)
Next Up: 4/26 SoCon Outdoor Championships

4/20 at Louisville Lost 12-13
Next Up: 4/26 vs. Howard (Cullowhee, N.C.)
Next Up: 4/23 vs. Duke
4/25-4/27 at Appalachian State

RBI and got the win on the mound in Sunday’s 7-6 win over Ga. Southern.
Notes: The ’Cats look to build on last week’s home showing at the Irwin Belk Invitational as they head to
Western Carolina University for the Southern Conference Outdoor Championships.
Notes: Matt Webb ’09 went 2-4 with an RBI and got the win on the mound in Sunday’s 7-6 win
over Ga. Southern.

Notes: Emily Diefendorf ’08 scored three goals but the ’Cats lost a heartbreaker 13-12 at Louisville. The team hopes to
finish up their impressive season with a win over Howard on Saturday.

Men’s Tennis (14-8, 5-4)
4/18 vs. App State Lost 3-4
Notes: Flaviu Simihaian ’08 was named to the All-SoCon First Team while teammate Scott Meyers ’09 earned Second Team Honors.

Defeat on Friday turned into a debacle on Saturday as the Eagles tore through the Wildcat pitching staff on their
way to a 20-2 victory. Martin led off with a solo homer for the second consecutive game, and the situation
would only deteriorate further for starter Chris Kennedy, who eventually gave up eight runs (six earned) and seven hits while
lasting only 1 2/3 innings. The Eagles proceeded to tack eight more runs onto reliever Andy Bass ’11 over four
innings. Only John Edwards ’10 showed an ability to stand up to the Georgia Southern onslaught, surrendering only one hit
and no runs in 2 1/3 innings of work. A.J. Wirnsberger had six RBIs to lead the Eagles, and Kyle
Kamppi got the win after giving up two runs on eight hits in five innings. The Eagle bullpen of A.J.
Gilbert, Dave Rigdon, and Roman Grimaldi combined to hold Davidson to one hit over the final four innings.

Rather than bow in the face of these twin defeats, however, the Wildcats showed a remarkable sense of resiliency and
grit by coming back on Sunday and claiming a well-earned 7-6 victory. Weiss helped Davidson rally from a 4-2 deficit
in the seventh inning by knocking in a run with a sacrifice fly. Matt Webb then plated the tying run
with an infield single. The momentum continued for the Wildcats in the bottom of the eighth. Eden drove in the
go-ahead run with a single, followed by another RBI single by Zach Kayne ’09 and Weiss’ second sacrifice fly of
the game. “I had struggled that day but was able to fight off a breaking ball to get the runners
moving and extend the inning,” Eden said.

The Wildcats would need all three of those runs because the Eagles scored twice after loading the bases with no
outs. However, Webb induced a 6-4-3 double play from Chris Shehan to end the game with runners on the corners
(Shehan had previously homered in the game). “It was hard to come back after a pretty bad loss on Saturday,”
Fitzpatrick said, “but as cliché as it may sound you really just have to put it behind you and move
on to the next game and expect to win.” Webb got the decision for the Wildcats, earning his first victory
of the season. Charlie Strohecker got the loss for Georgia Southern. Webb has “had to deal with very significant injuries,”
added Fitzpatrick, “and it has been extremely frustrating for him, but he has definitely provided a spark for us.”

Davidson has four series against conference opponents as they try to establish momentum entering the conference tournament. The Wildcats will
return to action Wednesday against the Duke Blue Devils at 7 pm in Wilson Field.

Women’s Tennis (19-6, 7-2)
4/18 vs. Wofford Won 4-0
4/19 vs. CofC Won 4-2
Next Up: 4/20 vs. Furman Lost 0-4
Season Complete
Notes: The Wildcats advanced to the finals of the Southern Conference Tournament for the third time in the last four
years but fell to Furman, who won their fifth consecutive title. The Wildcats completed a perfect season in SoCon singles
play with a first-round victory against App State.
