THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tennis protects ranking with two wins

By ZACH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

The women’s tennis team added three more victories to the win column this week by beating Elon University, Eastern Carolina
University, and Boston University. With these crucial, late-season wins, Davidson improves to 15-4 overall, while securing their sixth conference win
of the season in preparation for the SoCon tournament. Teresa Wang '10 extended her singles winning streak to 10 games.

On Wednesday, Davidson defeated Elon by a score of 5-2. The duo of Michelle Fanney '09 and Teresa Wang '10
teamed up for their 16th doubles appearance together and their 10th No. 2 doubles win. In singles matches, Fanney, Wang,
Kim Whelan '08, and Alison Rauh '11 won their singles matches to finish the day. Rauh’s victory was her first
singles win since coming back from injury. Wang dispatched her opponent in her ninth consecutive singles win at No. 5
with a score of 6-1 and 6-0.

Davidson beat another conference opponent, UNCG, on Thursday by the sizable margin of 6-1. After winning the doubles point with
her partner, Wang extended her singles winning streak to 10 straight matches. Fanney, Kim Whelan '08, Virginia Berry '10, and
Meredith Skeeters '08, who returned to her home in Greensboro, all registered wins on the day.

In addition to these impressive victories, the team made history on Saturday against non-conference opponent Boston University by a close
score of 4-3. The win was Davidson’s first against Boston University in school history, improving the team’s record against the
Terriers to 1-3 overall. Despite losing the doubles point, Davidson rallied back to capture four of six singles matches and
go on to win at home for the ninth straight time. Both Fanney and Whelan had 3-0 weeks after their
singles wins at the No. 4 and No. 3 spots respectively. Skeeters and Berry improved to 2-0 on the week.

“Hopefully we can continue the momentum into the last two weeks of the season.” - Teresa Wang '10

“I was really excited and proud to see that all of us battled hard through every match, and were able
to pull out two important conference wins, and our first-ever win against Boston University,” Wang said. “Everybody came through and
played their best, and hopefully we can continue the momentum into the last two weeks of the season.”

Davidson will travel to play UNC-Charlotte next Tuesday at 3 p.m.

Men’s Track Team wins shot put, javelin

By RAY FRANCIS
Staff Writer

The men’s track team produced another strong performance last Saturday at the Murray Neely Invite at North Carolina A&T in
Greensboro. Will Funderburg '09 won the shot put with a throw of 51 feet.

Will Funderburg '09 and Beaux Jones '08 led the Wildcat attack with first-place finishes in their events. Funderburg won the
shot put with a throw of 51 feet. The effort amounted to another Davidson Top 10 performance for Funderburg, who
already set the school records for both indoor and outdoor shot put earlier this season. Jones won the javelin throw
with aToss of 178 feet, eight inches. This performance also put Jones in the Davidson Top 10. Brad Troxell '08
and Melaku Teka '11 also performed well for the Wildcats. The two men finished fifth and eighth, respectively, in the
800-meter run (1:56.93 and 1:57.95). The team will return to action next weekend, when they travel to Greenville, S.C. to
take part in the Furman Track and Field Invitational.

Women’s Track Team shines at Duke Invite
By IAN QUA
Staff Writer

The women’s track and field team raced this weekend with two meets in two days. The women competed in the
Duke Invitational on Friday in Durham, N.C. and subsequently traveled to compete at the Murray Neely Invitational in Greensboro, N.C.
on Saturday. The team’s distance runners led the show for Davidson’s team at the Duke Invitational. In the “A” heat
of the 5,000 meters, Brenna Burns '08 placed 11th with a time of 17:45.46, while classmate Megal Atias '08 ended
up 16th with a time of 18:04.70. Both competitors clearly hope to finish their Davidson College track and field career
strongly. In the “B” heat, Emily King '09 also placed well by finishing 13th with a time of 18:20.56.

“[The Duke Invitational] was one of the most competitive meets on the east coast this year.” - Emily King '09

“[The Duke Invitational] was one of the most competitive meets on the east coast this year,” King said. “The field
of athletes was very impressive and, with that said, Brenna, Megal and I all posted very good times.”

At the Murray Neely Invitational, the Duke Invitational’s showcase of senior success was overshadowed by Heather Conarroe '11. Conarroe one-upped
her top-10 finish in the 1,500 meters last weekend by winning the 3,000 meters with a time of 11:02.53, outrunning
her competition by more than 16 seconds. Other Wildcats also performed well in Greensboro. Kim Colley '09 placed 27th in
the 100 meters with a time of 12.89 and Amaka Obidegwu '08 finished 29th in the 200 meters with a
time of 27.27.

“We are right on schedule to be in peak condition for Southern Conference championships at the end of the month,”
King said.

The Wildcat women will continue their journey towards peak condition next at the Tony Waldrop Invitational on April 12 in
Chapel Hill, N.C. Following this meet they come back home for the Irwin Belk Invitational on April 19, just before
the Southern Conference Championships on April 23.

Already feeling lonely without Basketball? Want to write about it? Write for Sports! Contact pamcardle or mifrongello

For fans like me, who have traveled to games and devoted my time, remember that schoolwork, however unpleasant or boring,
is the reason why all of us are here. The final point to remember this offseason is that the offseason
won't last forever. This year was a dream year, but there is a real possibility that next year can be
better. With Steph, Andrew, Max, and many more returning, this team can reach an even higher level next year. With
that in mind, hopefully all of us can exercise some patience and dream about that first game of the new
season in Belk Arena. In the meantime, feast your eyes on ESPN’s postseason NCAA rankings. If nothing else, these show
how the perception of Davidson basketball has changed, perhaps forever.
