7
THE DAVIDSONIAN

No Boundaries®
Hoodie Cropped Athletic Pants
Assorted prints. Assorted colors.
Sizes XS-XL. Sizes XS-XL.

Printed Tee
Assorted graphics.
Sizes M-XL.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2008

No Boundaries®
Belted Cargo Shorts
Assorted washes.
Sizes 28-42.

Get everything you need for life on campus.
In one stop. At unbeatable prices.

Our stores will match the price of any local competitor's printed ad for an identical product. Not applicable to Walmart.com™.
Restrictions apply. See store for details.

$10

Clorox® 3-Pack Black & Decker® Dell™ 19” Monitor
Disinfecting Light‘N Easy™ iron
Wipes

Green Works™ Natural Classic Brita® HP® PS 4440
All-Purpose or Glass & Pitcher with 16-oz. Color Printer
Surface Cleaner Nalgene® Bottle

Event Dates: Monday, August 18 ~ Saturday, September 20, 2008. Prices and items available only in the USA (may vary
in Alaska, Hawaii, Oklahoma, Wisconsin, or online at Walmart.com™). For the store location nearest you, please call 1-800-881-9186 or check
online at Walmart.com.

©2008 Walmart Stores, Inc. Printed in the USA. The “spark” design, Walmart, and Save money. Live better. are marks and/or
registered marks of Walmart Stores, Inc.

WALMART'S ADVERTISED MERCHANDISE POLICY - We intend to have every advertised item in stock at the advertised price when it
becomes available. In addition, we may offer to sell you a similar item at a comparable price reduction. However, we
may not offer some items in all locations and quantity or availability may vary due to unexpected demand or other
circumstances beyond our control. If an advertised item is out of stock at your Walmart, upon your request, we will
issue you a Rain Check so that you can purchase the item at the advertised price or a comparable price
reduction. While Supplies Last items, Bonus items, items identified as being available in limited quantities, and items that are not
carried at your Walmart do not qualify for Rain Checks or offers of substitute items. "WHILE SUPPLIES LAST" items are
items that we carry at a special price for a limited time or that we do not intend to continue
to carry on a regular basis. "BONUS" items are items that include a bonus amount of the same item or
an additional bonus item at no extra cost. "ROLLBACK" means that the advertised price is even lower than the previously
offered Every Day Low Price. In all cases, we reserve the right to limit quantities to normal retail purchases of
one per customer or household, and to exclude dealers. Our advertising circulars may vary by geographic region, and any particular
regional circular will apply only to stores in that region. Offers and limitations void where prohibited by law. We apologize
for, but will not be bound by, any errors in our advertisements.
