Staff Editorial

When applying to Davidson College, prospective students are confronted with the realities that come with financing an education at a private school in comparison to much more economical state schools. Debt-free education for students from lower socioeconomic status families once seemed an unattainable concept. With the initiation of Davidson's new no-loan policy, this ideal has become a reality. By replacing student loans with need-based financial aid packages that consist of grants and on-campus employment, students can now graduate without the substantial burden of student loans.

In a campus ceremony last Thursday, President Tom Ross revealed the name of the no-loan policy after 10 months of discussion: The Davidson Trust. The name was chosen from a list of suggestions from an online survey, and the trustees agreed that the word “trust” in the title reflects the honor inherent to the Davidson community. Certainly, the Davidson Honor Code sets the school apart from peer universities and makes possible a way of life based on mutual trust—the kind of trust that makes un-proctored and self-scheduled exams possible, that allows for community bicycles and unsupervised use of incredible facilities and technology around campus. The Davidsonian agrees that the new no-loan policy should echo and promote such ideals.

Another attractive aspect of the $70 million endowment is that it is funded by gifts, not by tuition. The Duke Endowment, as well as many Davidson alumni, granted approximately $14 million so far, as well as an $8 million donation to initiate the program. Now, the student body must put its trust in Davidson: the groundbreaking no-loan initiative will not only be a great start but a continued, sustained program for potential and current students. More than just a get-out-of-college-free card, The Davidson Trust ensures that students from a diverse range of economic situations will have equal opportunities to attend this institution. We sincerely hope that this initiative will further promote diversity on campus, in both academic and social settings. The Trust will also propel graduating students to choose a vocation based on their interests instead of salary, due to a significant decrease in debt.

Where do we go from here and what do we hope to see in the future? One possibility is the development of more inclusive programs for students from families that have the means to support a Davidson education, based on collateral for example, but not actually out of their parents’ paychecks or savings. That being said, Davidson has a small endowment in comparison to rival institutions, and the fact that we are the first college to initiate such a progressive program is highly commendable.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl

Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Katherine Miller

News Editors
Alissa Curran & Chris Moore

Perspectives Editors
Laura Van Oudenaren & Matt Petit

Arts & Living Editors
Spencer Errington & Caroline Wood

Yow! Editors
James Boswell & Alex Hoyt

Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Patrick McArdle

Photography Editor
Ben Ellinor

Copy Editor
Gretchen Hoffman

Business, Advertising, and Circulation Managers
Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Jamie Hofmeister

Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182; phone (704) 894-2148. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2008

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Jokes at One in Four program inconsiderate

The segment of Tuesday’s One in Four men’s session, which suggested ways to prevent rape on campus, was rudely interrupted. A certain young man in the audience felt it necessary to joke that secretly videotaping an intoxicated roommate raping an equally intoxicated female would be a good way to limit the possibility of rape. I imagine he enjoyed his smug moment, sitting in a small group of peers, who also laughed at his appalling idea of a joke. Rape is an extremely serious and life-altering subject and is not humorous, whatsoever. In fact, rape ruins the lives of hundreds of thousands of individuals in the United States each year. Just a few of the statistics available on the web about rape might make even this insensitive joker think twice. For example, every two minutes, somewhere in America, someone is sexually assaulted. One in six American women and one in 33 men have been victims of sexual assault at some point in their lives. Numbers from 2005 and 2006 show that there are on average 232,010 victims of rape, attempted rape, or sexual assault per year in the United States. Furthermore, 80 percent of rape victims are under age 30—the same age group as many of this joker’s friends. Based on those numbers, it is possible that somebody in that room had been a victim of rape. Even more likely, some may have been survivors of “secondhand rape,” meaning they have been affected by the rape of someone close to them.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

that someone close to them was raped and had confided in them. I hope he is reading this article. Unfortunately, four men passionate about rape prevention, a video suggesting rape’s horrible aftereffects, and statistics were unable to convince him that this issue is not a laughing matter. Maybe the fact that he trivialized someone else’s horrible experience with rape—forcing that person to relive his experience in front of his peers—may change this joker’s mind about his deplorable suggestion. Based on the statistics above as well as the most basic moral values of almost all students on campus, I am also willing to bet that your asinine and pathetic public utterance offended many more individuals. I certainly hope you begin to realize that some issues should never be treated as jokes and that what you said has and will continue to hurt others.

Walker Shaw ’10

Conflict in Darfur needs attention, publicity

DANIEL VAN OUDENAREN
Guest Columnist

Divestment from Sudan was one of the few issues that brought Congress together in 2007. Darfur continues to grab the spotlight here and there on the presidential campaign trail, and President Bush claims to be making it a “central issue.” While some have tired of hearing near-hysteric discussion regarding “genocide” in Darfur, it’s about time that politicians take notice. Why? Because the blazing insurgency in Darfur and eastern Chad, and all its consequent fallout, threaten to bring down not only the government of Sudan, but many American politicians as well. Student involvement in this cause is neither a fad nor politically irrelevant, but is an expression of the necessary international responsiveness of a generation that will face challenges on a global scale.

The governing National Congress Party of Sudan faces internal dissent from Islamists and other long-standing opposition parties, growing populations of displaced persons, renewed tension with southern rebels, treaty-mandated elections in 2009 and now a lasting insurgency in Darfur. Whether the Khartoum government falls tomorrow or makes it another few years, the intricate and brutal politics of this vast, largely remote and once economically insignificant country are already making ripples in the comparatively placid pond of American politics, which is soon to be hit by a tsunami-sized reality check.

There is rising awareness in the United States of the trauma affecting some parts of Africa, and now new attitudes towards policy choices. At Davidson and at other colleges, I’ve witnessed my peers join the ranks of the most active supporters of Darfur’s cause in groups like Students Taking Action Now: Darfur (STAND). The rise of other new groups too, like the ONE Campaign, indicates an increased focus on Africa and more generally on human integrity and security. Student involvement in this cause is neither a fad nor politically irrelevant but is rather an expression of the necessary international responsiveness of a generation that will face challenges on a global scale. The youth demographic is highly networked and has a heavy emotional investment in the issue. I’d wager that my generational peers and I have been shuffled through the Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington on school field trips more often than have most of the policy wonks and congressmen who live there.

Moreover, the notorious political indifference of college-aged youth actually makes universities advantageous places for consideration of universally important issues that have been left cruelly unaddressed by America’s myopic mainstream political discourse. Is my generation realistically going to reward the historical legacy of a government (ours) that was unwilling to provide even 24 helicopters to the African Union mission in Sudan, when the U.S. military has 6,023 helicopters? Are we not clever enough to see the Central Intelligence Agency (C.I.A.) romance with the Sudanese intelligence agency—the very same group that controls the janjawiid—has weakened our leaders’ resolve to take action in Darfur? Khartoum’s recent cooperation with the C.I.A. on counterterrorism is a case in which our ethical and strategic imperatives were sacrificed for short-sighted tactical partnerships. A joint United Nations-African Union force has been assigned to Darfur, but Khartoum continues to obstruct deployment of non-African contingents and to insist on other constraints that could doom the force to certain failure. Our government’s disgraceful refusal to value human security over the nominal sovereignty of the Khartoum government puts such a putrid blot on this generation of leaders that our republic will be cleansed only by the arrival of a political climate that refuses to permit the same callous lethargy in exercising American power.

In the political reality to come there will be losers—among them, the party planners who manufactured issues rather than dealing with real ones, the presidential candidates who learned just enough about Darfur to impress the uninformed American public, and the congressmen who thought that signing on to a divestment bill would absolve them from taking other less circumspect political and legislative actions. Belated outrage will do these politicians no good—their constituents have already beaten them to that. Let them rise up and act—or let them fall with the brutal tottering government in Khartoum with which they’ve forged so discrete and unholy an alliance. Justice is too mighty a voice to be silenced by the complacent rhetoric of politicians who have surrendered strategic vision and human values for party loyalty and phony party issues. Darfur needs to matter to America. Darfur will matter to America.

Daniel Van Oudenaren ’08 is a Classics major from Bethesda, MD. Contact him at davanoudenaren@davidson.edu