_ THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16, 2008 3

Students share ‘Journey to Nicaragua’ with campus
By BIANCA MITCHELL
Staff Writer

“Take a journey with me and imagine for just a second, a town with an old crumbling concrete house. It is dark and loud and hot and small children are crying. Mothers are calling for their young ones to get off of the street and into open housing because the drug dealers are coming, they are high off of sniffing glue.

“Carmen is standing with her child who has dysentery. Maybe they will get a piece of cardboard to sleep on, maybe not. She and the other girls in the crumbling shelter can’t help but wonder to themselves if they will be raped tonight.”

These are the words of Catherine Disanto '10 as she described just one of the many vivid scenes of poverty in Nicaragua. On Feb. 29, Disanto and 13 other Davidson students were led by College Chaplain Rob Spach, Adjunct Catholic Chaplain Karen Soos, and Julie Hill, an associate pastor at Davidson College Presbyterian Church, on an unforgettable journey. For 10 days, the group and leaders traveled Nicaragua. As a part of the ‘reverse’ mission, they wished to do exactly the opposite of what a normal mission trip entails. The group hoped that through interaction and listening, they would be able to learn from the people of Nicaragua. They wished that the people would assist them in their search for Christ. The team kept a communal journal throughout the trip, and from this document they shared their stories with the Davidson community.

David Baker '11 plays with Nicaraguan children at a local playground.

Sponsored by the Davidson College Presbyterian Church and the chaplain’s office, the trip had multiple facets. The students were involved in a homestay, worship services and trips called “accompaniments.” The accompaniments involved the travel of the group to a service organization so that they could see firsthand what motivated the workers. Accompaniment trips went to five different locales. The first trip involved a school called Los Caracolitos Preschool, which was established to help children that don’t have the proper Nicaraguan identity card required to attend public schools. The Asociacion Inhijambia was also a stop. This non-profit organization helps victimized children who are in situations of risk. Children and adolescents served here have been subjected to drug abuse, physical abuse and sexual exploitation. With the prostitution laws in Nicaragua allowing this act at the age of 14, many parents prostitute their girls years prior to the cut-off. Other associations included the Tesis Center which works with youth in poverty to provide artistic outlets; Cepad, which is a Christian social interest association trying to fight poverty in the area; and Parajito Azul Home for the Disabled, home to over 100 disabled youth and adults. Many of these disabled individuals were abandoned in hospitals as infants when their parents refused to spend money for treatment and care. The staff at the Parajito Azul works two 24-hour shifts a week, back-to-back in order to minimize travel costs. The staff at the home provides 24-hour emotional care and support to all patients. DiSanto remarked that the accompaniments brought the group “one step closer to realizing what service is.” This realization became very clear to the group in the city of Batahola Norte, where a priest and nun had come together.To build a community center, grounded in hope, to incite social change and bring the impoverished people together. Kimberly Bunting ’10 spoke about the enlightening homestay experience during which the two groups voyaged to Samaluli. The team split up into even smaller groups to visit homes in order to experience the true Nicaraguan lifestyle. Bunting commented that the homestay “was a lot of fun and gave me the chance to feel like I was a part of their lives.” The city girl took part in several tasks, including cow

See Nicaragua, page 4

Engage for Change goes green
By ALEX KOWALESKI
Staff Writer

Next year, Engage for Change’s efforts will focus on the theme of environmental justice. On Saturday, March 15, 45 students met and decided on the 2008-2009 theme for Engage for Change (EFC). At the start of the meeting, the members, under the guidance of Stacy Riemer, Dean of Community Service, divided into six groups to discuss theme ideas, each under the leadership of a member of EFC’s planning team. After a period of brainstorming, each group presented three of its best ideas to the entire gathering. Through discussion and debate, these 18 ideas were reduced to two: environmental justice and health care.

According to Nick Carney ’11, a member of the EFC Steering Committee, the two ideas that remained “followed Engage for Change’s standards of community action and direct service.” After a final discussion of the pros and cons of each, the students voted for their top choice, selecting environmental justice as the EFC theme for the 2008-2009 year. Carney stated that EFC decided on environmental justice because it is a topic about which the Davidson student body cares deeply and is an issue in which students can make a direct difference. Carney described the theme as “the environment with a mission.” Through this theme, EFC hopes to promote humanitarian issues such as helping people gain access to food and clean water, while maintaining environmental sensitivity in the pursuit of these goals.

Davis Greene ’09, Current EFC Program Coordinator, added that because of the widespread support for environmental causes, EFC seeks to support the environmental movement rather than fragment it. Most of the concrete plans of the theme have not been finalized yet and will not be until next fall. Riemer, who coordinated the conference, said that EFC wants input from all students, including next year’s incoming freshmen, before deciding what specific projects to pursue. In order to expose the Class of 2012 to next year’s theme early in the school year, the theme of environmental justice will be incorporated into the service walk during orientation. EFC already plans to work closely with SGA and the Environmental Action Committee, but its goal is to involve as many students as possible, in order to make its environmental goals for next year a campus-wide movement.

This year’s EFC events on affordable and attainable housing were sponsored by such groups as the Junior Class of Bonner Scholars, the Chidsey Leadership Development Office, and the Chaplain’s Office. EFC hopes to continue and increase this diverse commitment to its goals next year. In September, EFC will hold a number of town-hall style meetings to discuss issues directly related to environmental justice, and seek input from the student body. After these meetings, EFC expects to finalize its plan for the fall semester. With this theme, EFC hopes to promote and improve the health of the environment, as well as the lives of the human beings who depend on it.

EFC began a few years ago with students interested in working together on one service issue and continues to be student-driven. EFC identifies itself as a movement, rather than an organization, and encourages interested students to get involved, even if they’ve never done anything with EFC before. Interested students should e-mail engageforchange@davidson.edu with how they would like to contribute.