Ly

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 2, 2008

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME 99, NUMBER 20

"GOOD TIMES"

Wildcats advanced to Sweet 16 for the first time since 1969

The Davidson basketball team (now 29-7) celebrates its win over Georgetown, 74-70, and advances to the Sweet 16 for the first time since 1969.

Solomon House student project

By Tom LAVAN
Guest Writer

All tournament long Nike advertised with a commercial featuring Appalachian State’s football team, NBA star Chris Paul and, ironically, the Georgetown Basketball team. The commercial concludes with the eerie sound of a clock tolling midnight and the line “There are No Cinderellas.”

The ESPN commentators will undoubtedly talk about how Sunday night the dazzling horse-drawn carriage carrying our ’Cats swiftly through the national bracket crumbled into nothing more than the pumpkin from which it magically sprung.

Whether or not Nike was right, one thing is certain: Davidson is no Cinderella.

We came back from 13 points down twice against Gonzaga. We overcame a 17-point second-half deficit to defeat a Georgetown team that some analysts predicted to win the whole thing. We made a heavily favored Wisconsin team look like an unworthy mid-major with no business in the NCAA tournament.

When I look back on this tournament, I won’t remember the seven seconds we had to try and win against Kansas in the Elite Eight or how close we came to the Final Four. I will remember all the times.

See Elite, page 8

Martial arts club blends strength, self-defense

By KATE KELLY
Staff Writer

Kun Zhang ’11 and Robert Mudano ’10 are the Tyler Durden and Jet Li of the Davidson College campus.

With their chi flowing and punching bags standing ready at attention, the Davidson Martial Arts Club brings a new breed of athletics to Davidson. Both Zhang and Mudano head up the organization, mixing their personal styles of Tai Chi and Hun Gar Kung Fu for a full-body workout.

The idea to start a martial arts club began after Mudano began

See Martial arts, page 3

Davidson's NCAA tourney run

see SPORTS, PAGES 7-9

‘Waiting for Lefty’ theatre preview

see ARTS, PAGE 16

Trustees fund NCAA Detroit trip for students

By BRIAN MORAN
Staff Writer

Last week, as Davidson students contemplated the ’Cats first two NCAA tournament victories since 1969, many returned to one question: How will I get to Detroit?

Enter trustees.

At 2:23 p.m. last Wednesday, students received an e-mail from President Ross announcing that every student would have the opportunity to attend the NCAA Regional games—for free.

Given Davidson’s Sweet 16 appearance, the trustees decided to reach into their own pockets so that all students could witness this historic March run. Immediately, Davidson staff from many different departments scrambled to secure tickets, transportation, and lodging for over 300 students.

“The trustees’ actions say an incredible amount about their interest and concern for the students,” Ross said.

See Trustees, page 3