12 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2008

Curry, ’Cats lengthen SoCon streak to 23 games

By MIKE FRONGELLO
Sports Editor

The Davidson men’s basketball team extended their Southern Conference regular season winning streak to 23 games last week as they battled to a pair of hard-fought victories. The Wildcats' overall win streak now stands at 11 games following the wins over Chattanooga and Wofford.

The ’Cats were on the road against North Division leading Chattanooga on Saturday night and held off a late rally by the Mocs to preserve a 78-71 victory. Davidson dominated the first half and built a 24-point halftime lead punctuated by a Stephen Curry ’11 three-pointer at the end of the half. Curry led the Wildcats’ first-half charge, but this game was a tale of two halves and the ’Cats were unable to sustain the momentum in the second period.

“I’m very pleased with how we continue to progress.” - Coach Bob McKillop

After trailing 48-24 at the break, the Mocs steadily cut into Davidson’s big halftime lead. With 2:03 remaining, Kevin Bridgewaters’ three-pointer brought Chattanooga within one possession at 69-66. The three-point advantage was the Wildcats’ smallest since leading 11-8 at the 15:32 mark in the first half. Curry, who had been held to just two points in the second half, sank all six of his free throws in the final two minutes to secure the victory. Jason Richards ’08, the nation’s assist leader, added 15 points and six assists while the ’Cats also received strong contributions off the bench from William Archambault ’10 and Boris Meno ’08. Archambault netted 14 points and Meno turned in another solid performance with eight points and seven rebounds. Curry’s 24 points extended his own streak of double-digit scoring efforts to 48 consecutive games.

Earlier in the week, the Wildcats overcame a sloppy first-half performance to defeat Wofford at home 78-65. The win was historic for Davidson head coach Bob McKillop as it marked the 325th victory of his career. The Terriers took advantage of 10 first-half turnovers by Davidson to take a 35-34 halftime lead, but the Wildcats took control in the second half. It was only the second time the team had trailed at the half in conference play all season. Curry scored 20 of his game-high 34 points after halftime and the ’Cats used a 14-3 run midway through the half to jump out to a 60-46 lead. The Wildcats cruised the rest of the way, cementing another SoCon victory and snapping Wofford’s four-game winning streak. Richards recorded nine points and eight assists while classmate Thomas Sander ’08 added 11 points and nine rebounds in the home win.

The victories capped off a big week for Curry who was named the Southern Conference Player of the Week for the second week in a row after averaging 29 points, five assists, and four rebounds in last week’s contests. On Monday, Curry garnered SoCon Player of the Month honors for the month of January for leading the ’Cats to a perfect 10-0 record while averaging 24.2 points. In addition to the conference honors, the sophomore was selected as a finalist for both the Wooden Award and Naismith Trophy, given annually to the nation’s best basketball player.

Davidson is now 13-0 in SoCon play for the third time under McKillop. In each of the previous two seasons, the Wildcats finished the conference regular season undefeated and have been extremely successful in the month of February in recent years. Dating back to the 2003-2004 campaign, the ’Cats hold an impressive 25-3 record in February games.

“The steps we are taking are not giant steps but they are all steps forward. So I’m very pleased with how we continue to progress,” McKillop said.

On Monday, the Wildcats learned they will be traveling down I-77 on Feb. 22 for a nationally televised game at Winthrop as part of ESPNU’s BracketBusters event. Seven of the ’Cats’ remaining eight games will be televised, including both of this week’s home conference match-ups. Tip-off for tonight’s game with Elon is scheduled for 7 p.m. Davidson’s Blackout Belk Arena event is set for Saturday at 3 p.m. when the Wildcats will take on College of Charleston in a rematch of last year’s Southern Conference Tournament Championship game.Men’s and women’s tennis sweeps competition

By ZACH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Both the men’s and women’s tennis teams dominated the competition this week at Knobloch Tennis Center by winning 13 out of a possible 14 points and holding their rivals to only one doubles point and one singles match in both contests. Ethan Jaffee ’09 won in No. 1 singles, filling in for Flaviu Simihaian ’08.

Player of the Week
Stephen Curry ’10
Men’s Basketball
Hometown: Charlotte, N.C.
The 6’3” shooting guard averaged 29 points in wins over Wofford and Chattanooga on his way to being named SoCon Player of the Week for the second consecutive week. He also earned SoCon Player of the Month honors after averaging 24.2 PPG in leading Davidson to a perfect 10-0 record in January.

Davidson women’s tennis secured its second straight shutout by a score of 7-0 on Thursday against USC Upstate in Upstate’s first match at the Division 1 level. Davidson won every match in straight sets. To kick things off, Davidson’s tandem of Kim Whelan ’08 and Alison Rauh ’11 won their third straight doubles match at the No. 3 position by the score of 8-2. The floodgates opened up after this first doubles match. Winning their second straight match at No. 1 doubles, the duo of Kelsey Linville ’08 and Virginia Berry ’10 defeated their opponents 9-7. The pair of Michelle Fanney ’09 and Teresa Wang ’10 also claimed their second win at No. 2 doubles with an 8-1 final. Fanney at No. 4 singles and Rauh at No. 5 singles both defeated their opponents 6-1, 6-3. Linville earned her first singles win of the season by a score of 6-2, 6-2 in the No. 1 singles spot. With this impressive victory, Davidson Women’s Tennis improved to 4-1 and hopes to build its record when the team plays a doubleheader against Wingate and Queens on Saturday.

Complementing the women’s win, the men’s tennis team defeated Longwood University 6-1 on Saturday. With the Wildcat win, Davidson improves to 2-1 and Longwood declines to 0-5. Getting off to a great start, Phillip Compeau ’08 and Eric Noble ’10 won at the No. 1 doubles spot by a score of 8-2. Sam Burns ’10 and Walker Lyons ’11 followed suit with an 8-3 victory at No. 2 doubles. These two wins secured the first point of the match for Davidson. In his first collegiate match, Carter Braxton ’11 teamed up with Ethan Jaffee ’09 for a close loss at No. 3 doubles by the score of 9-7. This would be the only slip of the afternoon for the Wildcats. Because the usual No. 1 player Flaviu Simihaian ’08 could not play due to sickness, Jaffee took over the No. 1 singles spot and registered a 7-1, 6-1 win to record his first victory of the season at the top spot. Sam Burns ’10 and Arie Hefter ’11 joined in on the act by earning their first wins of the season at No. 4 and No. 6 singles, respectively. Hefter won by an impressive score of 6-2, 6-4 while Burns won in similar fashion 7-6, 6-4. “It is amazing to see these great results even without our number one player and captain,” Arie Hefter ’11 said. Three other singles matches resulted in tie breakers, all of which Davidson won. Scott Meyers ’09 and Walker Lyons ’11 both earned their second wins of the season at the No. 5 and No. 3 spots with scores of 6-3, 6-2 and 6-2, 7-6, respectively. “I think we can now see all of our hard work in the weight room and practice paying off,” Arie Hefter said. “It is amazing to see these great results even without our number one player and captain [Flaviu Simihaian].” The men’s team hopes to upset nationally ranked University of South Carolina on Saturday at 2:30 p.m. The team will return to Davidson on Sunday to play a match against Gardner-Webb at 1:30 p.m.

One week after setting the school record and winning the individual shot put title at the Patriot Games, Will Funderburg ’09 was at it again in Chapel Hill. His throw of 15.43 meters was not only good enough for 1st place in the event at the Carolina Classic on Saturday but also outdistanced his record-setting throw of 15.31 meters from last weekend.