THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2008

JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Arts & Living Editor

Inevitably, all people experience stress from time to time. But, for the Davidson student, especially around exam time, that stress can develop into a constant, day-to-day presence.

Our modern definition of stress comes from studies completed by Dr. Hans Seyle in the 1930s. Seyle, a Hungarian endocrinologist, originally designed his experiment to try to find a hormone common to many types of illnesses. His results showed that when animals are exposed to toxic elements, their bodies react. With the onset of these elements, called “stressors,” the body responds with either adaptive or maladaptive reactions. Seyle called the maladaptive reactions “distress” factors. This term was later shortened to “stress.”

Seyle published his findings in his 1956 book called “The Stress of Life.” He wrote the modern definition for stress, claiming that it is a “physiological consequence of the failure of a human or animal to accurately respond to the emotional or physical threats brought on by stressors.” These threats, Seyle notes, can be either real or imagined.

Some stressful experiences can be thrilling and actually good for the body, like watching an intense basketball game. “The result [of these types of situations] is typically fun, exhilaration, a sense of well-being, triumph, or accomplishment,” said Dr. David Staton from Davidson College’s Student Counseling Center.

“The really toxic situation is when the stressful experience is too intense and, especially, if it goes on too long and becomes chronic,” he said. Indeed, for the Davidson student, stress can seem like a chronic epidemic. It not only affects your sense of well-being but your immune system can also suffer. That’s right: blame your sore throat and persistent hacking cough on your three term papers.

Every year around the end of the semester, Staton noted that the Health Center sees an increasing number of students asking for Cepacol and Kleenex. Negative stress makes us feel ill, discouraged, and even depressed. “The mental fatigue that goes with these vicious cycles [of stress] results in cognitive and behavioral lapses that only serve to increase stress,” warned Staton. “Things like losing keys or a CAT card, forgetting an appointment, oversleeping, or going off on a roommate or friend in an argument could have been prevented.” Also, more serious problems such as anxiety and eating disorders can develop.

At this time of year, students feel that they must devote all their time to their studies. Staton explained that visitors to the Counseling Center often admit that they have neglected vital activities, such as sleep and regular meals, because they needed more time to study. “Any additional study time afforded by skipping meals and sleep is more than offset by decreases in academic efficiency and effectiveness,” said Staton. “Getting sufficient sleep is particularly important, because sleep plays such an important role in memory consolidation, which is what study and exams are all about.”

Though the occasional all-nighter is inevitable, students should try not to make them a regular occurrence. Sleep, along with other hobbies, serves to greatly reduce anxiety. Just as you block off time for work, breaks should become an integral part of your daily schedule as well. Meditation, prayer, music, exercise, phone, and television time can be wonderful outlets.

“The single most important recommendation is to ensure that your life has balance—breaks in it, changes in circumstances that allow you periodically to get away from stressful circumstances for some time,” said Staton.

Dr. Staton, a member of Davidson’s class of ’69, knows all too well the stress students are liable to feel. To cope with his own stress, Staton developed a set of “red flags,” or early warning signs, that alert him when his life may be getting too hectic. Examples of such signs can include a shortened temper, sore throat, or loss of appetite. Staton encourages everyone to become aware of his or her own red flags. When students recognize a problem, preventative measures, such as those mentioned above, can be taken.

Stress should not be neglected. And if a student’s stress cannot be solved by a couple of episodes of “The Office” or a nice walk outdoors with friends, a more serious problem may exist. The school’s counseling center is a wonderful resource that students should feel free to utilize. Students receive ten free counseling sessions as part of their four years here.

Thankfully, finals do eventually end. Winter break, though it seems far off at times, really lies just around the corner. Davidson students are notorious for their hard work and desire to succeed in every aspect of their lives.lives, yet we should all keep in mind that our mental health is equally important as our transcripts.

Student dance group Gamut performed a condensed version of the Christmas classic in the 900 room.

Gamut does ‘Nutcracker’
JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

In keeping with Davidson’s festive holiday season, the entirely student-composed Gamut Dance Company made its own contribution with the 2nd annual ‘Nutcracker Suite’ performance this past Monday, Dec. 8. The audience was welcomed to the 900 Room with complimentary admission and programs waiting on their seats.

Unlike the traditional representation of the ‘Nutcracker’ based on Tchaikovsky’s 1892 musical score, written for the 8-part concert version of the Nutcracker Ballet Suite, members of Gamut choreographed their own condensed interpretation. The show began at the point in the traditional story when the fictitious Stahlbaums host their annual Christmas Eve party. The performance progressed to the fantastical journey which results from Clara’s slumber.

Alex Zsoldos ’09 choreographed ‘Waltz of the Snowflakes.’ Clara’s journey continued when she travels to the ‘Land of Sweets’ and meets a group of sleeping dancers. Dances ranged from ‘Spanish Hot Chocolate,’ choreographed by Jadry Gruen, to ‘Marzipan,’ choreographed by Alex Zsoldos. Other dances included ‘Arabian Coffee,’ ‘Chinese Tea’ and ‘Russian Trepak.’ The ‘Trepak’ is arguably one of the most famous dances of the Suite, and is based on the traditional Ukrainian dance known as the ‘Tropak.’ Susan Li did an impressive job as the sole choreographer and dancer.

The condensed performance ended with the famous ‘Waltz of the Flowers,’ choreographed by Michael Garrison of North Carolina Atlanta Dance Theater, and modified by Diane Karliris. Considering the performance in its entirety, the dancers’ ability to choreograph and perform such a compacted version of a demanding and well-known ballet is impressive. The costumes were generally appropriate and changes were fluid, including outfits ranging from traditional tutus and leotards, to Middle Eastern, Oriental and Russian-inspired costumes.

The company delivered an overall good performance, despite some rather noticeable moments of lost synchronization and form. This is understandable, taking into account a limited amount of practice time. Unexpectedly, none of the dances featured a performance on pointe, a technique traditionally employed by highly-skilled dancers. Furthermore, the performance lasted only a half an hour, which, on the one hand, was convenient for attending to other obligations, but did not provide enough time for an adequate representation of Tchaikovsky’s magnum opus; however, given the situation and venue, this is understandable.

Like Sparknotes of a great work, this performance accomplished what it intended: a short and sweet overview of a masterpiece that should be experienced itself. Even though the performance was much diluted, it was the honest and pleasant endeavor of a hard-working company that gave many moments of creativity and seasonal warmth.

Vampires at the movies
HANNAH JAKOB
Staff Writer

“Twilight” was one of the most anticipated films of the year. The film is based on the first of a four-book series by Stephanie Meyer that has a following of readers comparable to that of the Harry Potter novels. In fact, the movie was released on November 21-- the same day that the 6th Harry Potter was scheduled to release before it was pushed to this coming July.

“Twilight” tells the story of high school junior Bella Swan and her dangerous romance with fellow classmate and vampire Edward Cullen. Before I saw the film, I read the first novel so that I could compare the two stories and see how well the director and actors captured the spirit of the novel. I was not disappointed. The movie follows the novel closely, and the actors do an amazing job portraying their characters and developing the relationships between them. Almost every character is exactly as I pictured him or her in the book.

Bella, played by rising star Kristen Stewart, and Edward Cullen, played by Robert Pattinson, connect perfectly. Both the sexual awkwardness of the budding relationship between Bella and Edward and the general clumsiness of high school are realistic and create a true connection between the audience and the two teenagers. Moreover, Edward and Bella’s love is the love that people dream about and the manner in which the film portrays it makes it seem possible for anyone.

The first time Bella sees Edward she is struck by his breathtaking beauty and grace. However, for some reason unbeknownst to her, Edward Cullen takes a sudden and intense dislike of Bella. He seems to be incapable of being in her mere presence. She plans to confront him and demand to know the reason behind his dislike, but he disappears for a week only to return and behave congenially. Despite his kinder behavior, he insists that they should

See Twilight, page 6