12 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, March 19, 2008

Third straight SoCon title for McKillop’s ’Cats

By MIKE FRONGELLO
Sports Editor

After falling in the SoCon semifinals to UNCG three years ago after a perfect regular season, this year’s 'Cats made
sure history did not repeat itself by first blowing out Wofford and UNCG and then claiming a 65-49 victory over
Elon in the SoCon Championship to secure a third straight trip to the Big Dance.

Tournament MVP Stephen Curry ’10 led all scorers with 23 points and also grabbed five rebounds for the Wildcats, who
celebrated their third consecutive tournament title. Jason Richards ’08, the national leader in assists with eight assists per game, dished
out 11 assists and added four points in the victory.

Davidson jumped out to an 8-2 lead in the opening minutes behind six points from Curry, but the ’Cats were
unable to distance themselves from the Phoenix in the first half. Despite just shooting 33% from the field in the
first half, Elon trailed the Wildcats just 30-22 at the half, thanks in large part to the three-point shooting of
T.J. Douglas, who connected on three three-pointers for nine points before halftime.

Early in the second half, the 'Cats pushed their lead to 43-28 and appeared to be on their way to
another blowout win, but the Phoenix battled back behind the hot shooting of Douglas, who finished with 18 points, all
on three-pointers. Following a Douglas three-pointer with just 4:46 to play in regulation, the Wildcats led only 51-46.

With only a five-point lead, Davidson responded with baskets by Boris Meno ’08 and Andrew Lovedale ’09. Bryant Barr’s ’10
corner three-pointer on the Wildcats’ next possession put the game and the championship out of reach. Thomas Sander ’08, who
added 11 points and six rebounds in the contest, added a dunk with just over a minute to play, and
Curry’s three-pointer with the shot clock expiring in the final seconds put the finishing touches on Davidson’s championship victory.

The win extended the team’s winning streak to 22 games, the longest active streak in the nation. The Wildcats also
capped a perfect 23-0 Southern Conference slate with the victory and did so in dominant fashion as they never trailed
in the tournament. The ’Cats have won 36 straight games against SoCon competition.

Curry and Richards were named to the all-tournament first team following their performances while Sander garnered second team honors. These
recognitions concluded a week full of honors for the Wildcats. Earlier in the week, the SoCon Media and Coaches recognized
Curry as the SoCon Player of the Year. Curry finished the season fifth nationally in scoring at 25.1 ppg and
is also among the nation’s leaders in free-throw percentage, three-pointers made, and three-pointers per game. In addition, the sophomore from
Charlotte, N.C. was named to the NABC District 5 first team and was tabbed a second team All-American by both
Sports Illustrated and the Sporting News.

Coach Bob McKillop, the all-time winningest coach in school and SoCon history, was honored by the media and his fellow
SoCon coaches as the SoCon Coach of the Year for the second consecutive year and for the seventh time in
his career. This season marked the third time the ’Cats have swept through conference play undefeated under McKillop (1994-1995, 2004-2005,
2007-2008).

Other Wildcats recognized included senior floor general Richards who, along with backcourt mate Curry, was named to the All-Southern Conference
First Team by both

See Basketball, page 11

March Madness: We can handle the pressure—

By WILL BRYAN
Sports Editor Emeritus

The day was March 4, 2005. The sun was setting on yet another beautiful day in Chattanooga, Tenn. As the
afternoon turned to evening and the temperature slipped into a cool chill, I met up with a member of Davidson’s
ticket office staff in the parking lotadjacent to McKenzie Arena. After slipping a cool $20 into the hands of the
Davidson staffer, I got my hands on a beautiful gray t-shirt that featured a new-age Wildcat graphic on the front
and the word “UNDEFEATED” on the back. I immediately slipped that shirt on and walked into the arena feeling untouchable.
It was my freshman year and my Wildcats were perfect in the Southern Conference regular season. All of us fans
had started looking at possible NCAA Tournament sites. The only thing that stood in our way was a few meaningless
games against previously vanquished SoCon foes. Victory was expected, and the pressure to keep all SoCon comers at arm’s length
was high. The next three hours were agony. Davidson barely led in an ugly match that exposed the Wildcats’ weaknesses
at every turn. After the final missed shot from the top of the key, Davidson’s NCAA dreams were shot. Pressure
and expectation were Greensboro’s allies, and they helped hand Davidson its first conference loss of the season.

A year later, Coach McKillop returned seven seniors and the reigning Conference Player of the Year. We expected big things,
especially after Davidson knocked off Missouri, UMass, and St. Joes in the early season schedule. On Jan. 14 of 2006,
Davidson was looking to become the holder of a nation-leading regular season conference winning streak of 27 games. The pressure
reared its ugly head yet again. The Wildcats lost to Furman and went on to lose four of their next
eleven conference games. The Wildcats were seeded third in the Southern Conference Tournament and the prestigious careers of players like
Brendan Winters, Ian Johnson, and Matt McKillop were in their twilight.

In a February 2005 interview with Coach McKillop, he talked about walking the line and not letting the outside things
distract your focus. By 2006, the emphasis had changed ever so slightly. In a Feb. 22 Davidsonian interview that year,
McKillop talked about the upcoming tournament and the final games of the careers of seniors that had been so integral
to the family of Wildcat basketball. “I’m thoroughly enjoying this experience, and when you're enjoying an experience like this, you
don’t start reminiscing or worrying that you’re going to lose it. I look at that glass as being half full
right now.”

Since that day over two years ago, Davidson has only lost one game to a Southern Conference opponent. That would
be 47 wins in the last 48 SoCon games. In that stretch, Davidson has only lost one game by more
than 12 points, been ranked in the Top 25 on two separate occasions, won three conference championships, a player in
Jason Richards leading the country in assists, a player in Stephen Curry who set a new freshman three-point record, who
led the country in threes this year and who earned Second Team All-American from ESPN and Sporting News with the
AP still pending. Davidson currently has the nation’s longest winning streak and is the only team that is perfect in
2008. So how have the Wildcats handled that pressure? How did they come back from 20 down on the road
at Greensboro with their captain and defensive general on the bench? How did they fight back to

See Madness, page 10

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Fitzpatrick’s Single Propels ’Cats to Victory Over Yale

photo courtesy of Tim C
Max Paulhus Gosselin ’09 shouting for joy after Davidson secured the SoCon Championship

With the score tied 6-6 in the bottom of the eighth inning, right fielder Chase Fitzpatrick ‘09 delivered a two-out
single that scored Pat Brady ‘09 to give the Wildcats a 7-6 lead, which they held onto in the ninth
to secure the two-game series sweep of the Bulldogs.
