14 The Davidsonian

College basketball gets a facelift

’Cats score early, but...

CHRIS YOUNG
Staff Writer

Basketball courts on college campuses around the country are sporting a new look this season. Anyone venturing into our own
Belk Arena would be hard-pressed to miss the new, red arc that will serve as the NCAA Men’s three-point line
this season. It sits 20 feet, nine inches from the basket, a foot behind the old line. With both lines
actually still painted on the court (the women’s game did not institute the new line), the change is obvious. That
court sure does look different, and it has everyone asking the same question: how different will the college basketball game
look this season with the new arc in place?

When the three-point line was instituted in the college game in 1986, many basketball purists loathed the concept. Many felt
as though the mid-range game that was so integral to teams’ play would be lost, as shooters would focus on
the long-range bomb that produced a greater reward. Believe it or not, this argument made sense. To achieve the same
production of shooting 50 percent on twos, a shooter only needed to make a third of his three-point attempts. For
years, the change did not seem to have much of an effect. Teams were still reluctant to shoot the three
and the midrange and inside games still ruled the college floors.

The developments over the last decade, though, made the NCAA Rules Committee put in the change. College teams have become
increasingly dependent on three-pointers to score. The inviting, shorter arc led less proficient shooters to continually put up three-pointers in
games. Not surprisingly, players have improved at the shot, with the NCAA average rising up to a 36 percent rate
of success. For a line that initially was only supposed to reward the best outside shooters, that percentage had grown
too high.

With the line moved back by a foot, can we expect substantial change in the way college basketball is played
this season? Conventional wisdom would suggest that the best shooters will be relatively unaffected by the change. Who can forget
Stephen Curry ’10’s barrage of long threes against the likes of Gonzaga and Georgetown? Or Bryant Barr ’10’s bombs in
Detroit in the near-miss versus Kansas? Yep, I think it’s safe to say that our Wildcats will be relatively unaffected
by the change. With Curry, Barr, Brendan McKillop ’11, and Will Archambault ’10 firing up threes in Belk Arena, the
’Cats should not have trouble draining threes from the longer distance.

Lesser shooters, though, could certainly be affected. While last year’s team was an exception, Davidson coach Bob McKillop’s teams have
previously relied on big men shooting threes at a decent clip. In 2006-2007, Thomas Sander ’08 and Boris Meno ’08,
both post players, shot threes at over a thirty percent conversion rate. It is safe to say, though, that they
may not have had the same green light to shoot from the longer distance. Teams relying on premier athletes that
are more slashers than shooters could be affected as well. Last year’s national runners-up, the Memphis Tigers, were not a
particularly strong shooting team. They would have likely suffered considerable struggles with the new line.

Many have argued that the new line will open up the inside game for teams and create new lanes for
slashers. I beg to differ. For teams that struggle shooting the new long ball, I believe we will see opponents
sit back in a zone, begging them to throw up bricks all day.

Who will have the advantage with the new rule? I believe teams like Davidson will have an advantage. While the
’Cats may have trouble dealing with the athleticism of top teams (though last year’s NCAA Tournament performance quelled some of
those fears), the strong shooting of players like Curry and Barr becomes even more important and evident. Frankly, I do
not think that this year will see much change in the numbers of three-point shots attempted. Coaches and players are
unlikely to make drastic changes until they see the effects on the court. I do believe, however, that percentages will
be down across college basketball, and that the great shooters will be rewarded.

The change will come in the years that follow. Until players once again become proficient and comfortable when toeing the
arc, we could witness a change in style of play. Coaches will adjust when they see the detrimental effect of
weaker shooters constantly firing up threes. Trust me, though; they will have to see it first. We could very easily
see changes.Over the next decade, but this year I predict a college basketball landscape that rewards teams that feature premier
shooters that will not sweat the new line. Maybe that’s wishful thinking for the ’Cats. Only time will tell.

Short against Tribe
Carey Leigh Evan
Staff Writer

Last weekend, men’s and women’s swimming fell, 133-104 and 147-96 respectively, to William and Mary last Saturday in Williamsburg, Va.
During the weekend of tough competition, however, several ’Cats recorded individual wins. Merritt Peele ’09, Geoffrey Peitz ’12, and Lindsey
Martin ’11 each put up two wins. Peele won the 1000m free (9:51.24) and 500 free (4:45.83). Peitz won the
400m IM (4:10.14) and 100m backstroke (51.96). Martin won the 50m free (24.18) and the 100m free (52.66). Anna Stringfield
’11 and Emily Castle ’11 each brought home firsts for the women—Stringfield in the 1000m (10:29.65) and Castle in the
100m fly (58.45). Curtis Chaney ’12 won the 200m free (1:44.82), Nate Ladner ’11 the 100m breaststroke (59.13), and Ben
Lane ’12 the 3-meter diving event (279.08) for the men. Up next for the Wildcats is the Davidson College Invitation
at Cannon Natatorium, Nov. 21-23.

Football
(3-6, 2-5)
Results:
11/8 vs. San Diego L 24-28
Next Up:
11/15 vs. Marist
Notes: The Wildcats lost a heartbreaker after jumping out to a 21-0 lead and are looking to lash out against
Marist this weekend at home.

Field Hockey
(8-14, 1-5)
Results:
11/6-11/8 NorPac Tournament:
11/6 vs. Stanford L 2-4
11/7 App. State W 3-2 (2OT)
11/8 vs. Radford W 3-2
Notes: After winning five of their last seven, the Wildcats finished the season ranked 26th in the nation.

Men’s Soccer
(4-14-1, 2-5-0)
Results:
11/9 SoCon Quarterfinals:
@ Ga. Southern L 1-2
Next Up:
11/14 vs. Wofford
11/16 vs. Furman
Notes: The ’Cats conclude the season with two more home matches and look to finish strong to solidify their position
for the Southern Conference Tournament.

Volleyball
(11-16, 6-8)
Results:
11/7 vs. CofC L 1-3
11/8 vs. The Citadel W 3-0
Notes: The ’Cats lost a close game to Ga. Southern in the first round of the SoCon Tournament to conclude
their season. The team is preparing to make a strong run this weekend at the

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2008

Fall in SoCon quarters
Zachary Zimmerman
Sports Writer

Despite their record, Davidson Men’s Soccer played very competitively this season and fought hard in each and every match. On
Sunday, the story was no different. Davidson faced off against Georgia Southern in a SoCon Tournament opener, falling late in
the match 2-1. This loss resulted in a sixth-place finish for the Wildcats in the SoCon Tourney. Before the tournament
even began though, Alex Caskey ’11 was named All-SoCon First Team while Greg McNamara ’12 and Hunter Hayes ’12 were
named to the All-SoCon Freshman Team.

Beginning the match with a bang, Davidson came out on the offensive. At the eight-minute mark, Caskey fired a pass
to Yannick Pilgrim ’11 who registered his fourth goal of the season, leading Davidson in that department. For the majority
of the first half, the game was all defense until 3:05 remained. Georgia Southern’s Joe Madigan shot from the right
side of the box putting it in the left side of the net, tying the match at one all. After
halftime, Georgia Southern wasted no time, scoring in the first third of the second half. At the 59-minute mark, Austin
Steele headed a goal into the near corner of the net to put Georgia Southern up 2-1. Davidson, however, did
not give up. In the closing minutes, Davidson fired four shots. One from McNamara nearly went in while another from
Pilgrim almost did the same. Georgia Southern led shot attempts by a 15-12 margin while Robby Goldsberry ’10 registered three
saves overall. Davidson finished the season 4-14-1 overall and says farewell to Cameron Griffin ’09, Whitey Bolan ’09, and Juan
Duque ’09. “This season we showed promise for next year,” said Josh Zippin ’11. “I am very optimistic as we
will return with a strong core of players.” This season Davidson showed tenacity, strength, and poise. Hopefully, we will see
improvement and changes next season.

Aaron Rewinscn
Whitey Bolan ’09 and the ’Cats saw their season come to an end in a 2-1 loss at Georgia Southern
on Sunday.

Men’s and Women’s Swimming/Diving
Results:
Men: L 104-133
Women: L 96-147
Next Up:
11/21-11/23 Davidson College Invitational
Notes: The Wildcats are preparing to host the Davidson College Invitational in two weeks.

Cross Country
Results:
11/1 SoCon Championships
Men: 8th
Women: 5th
Next Up:
11/15 NCAA Regionals
Notes: The Wildcats are preparing to host the Davidson College NCAA Regionals.
