DAVIDSON COLLEGE

@ “THE SOUTH’S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2008

Union Board raises the ‘bar’

MIKE ANDERSON
Staff Writer

A new on-campus bar will be opened on Saturday nights in the 900 Room of the Alvarez Student Union starting October 18. The hours are tentatively set from 10 p.m. to 1 or 2 a.m.

Because of popular student support for an on-campus bar, the Union Board is heading the initiative with strong backing from SGA President Davis Greene ’09 and Tom Shandley, Vice President for Student Life.

Although the bar was initially planned to open Saturday, Sept. 20, the entire Union was booked for Homecoming. Now, the bar’s Oct. 18 opening will coincide with a show featuring a mentalist couple and an After Midnight featuring Qdoba Mexican Grill and salsa dance lessons.

There were a few intermittent openings in the calendar for the bar before break, but according to Ben Van Dyke, those behind the initiative want to make sure students know the bar is reliable and will be there consistently. Therefore they wanted to wait until there were enough consecutive time slots.

Entertainment will coexist with the bar in order to draw more people to the area.

According to Douglas Clark-Brown, the student bar manager, one concern is getting enough people to come to the bar. The hope is that other entertainment will bring more people to the Union.

See Bar, page 2

Holocaust survivor urges students, ‘We can never forget’

CLINT SMITH
Staff Writer

“Those who cannot learn from the past, are inevitably doomed to repeat it.”

These are the words that Susan Cernyak-Spatz, a survivor of the infamous Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp, carries with her every day, as she travels from place to place telling her incredible story.

A small, yet poised woman, Ms. Cernyak-Spatz’s accent was evident, but never so detracted from her message.

As we commenced our interview, she sat comfortably in her chair and gathered herself as she prepared to chronicle her remarkable journey.

Born in Vienna, Austria to middle-class parents, Cernyak-Spatz lived a life that was not too far out of the ordinary for any young Jewish girl at the time.

From 1929 to 1936 she lived in Berlin, Germany. Her father was the owner of a multi-branch greeting card company which had stores all across Europe.

As the Nazi threat became more and more evident, Cernyak-Spatz and her family returned to Vienna.

Much to their dismay however, the Nazis arrived in Vienna not too long after she and her family had returned there.

“It seemed that wherever we went, Hitler would follow,” she said.

The family then relocated to Prague, Czechoslovakia, but in 1939 the Germans began marching into that city as well.

Susan Cernyak-Spatz survived Auschwitz.

Her father made arrangements for he, his wife and young Susan to cross over into Poland with the assistance of some illegal border crossers.

Just as they were prepared to leave however, Cernyak-Spatz’s mother said that the father should go first, and that she and the child would follow.

“It ended up being a horrible idea because he got on the last plane that was able to leave the country,” Cernyak-Spatz said, “My mother and I were trapped.”

As the number of Nazi soldiers in Prague increased, the Jewish living there experienced crueler treatment.

“The German soldiers acted horribly towards us,” Cernyak-Spatz said. “They were the most malicious and merciless robbers the world has ever seen. They took our clothes, jewelry, food, everything. They needed anything that could be turned into money so that they could fund the war.”

After the soldiers finished raiding Jewish homes and stealing everything in sight, they began their efforts to, as Cernyak-Spatz said, “Exterminate all Jews from Europe.”

Initially, the soldiers forced the Jews to dig massive holes in the ground, and to line up on their knees in front of these enormous trenches.

Then, without a moment’s

See Holocaust, page 4

Davidson succumbs to

see YOWL, PAGE 7

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 6

photo by Laney Shenk
Mamadou Diabate, a Malian kora player, performed this past Tuesday, September 30, as a part of the Davidson Arts Series.

Dean and Burr aim to encourage voter turnout

ANDREW EVANS
Staff Writer

Governor Howard Dean, the Democratic National Committee Chairman and a former Presidential candidate, will speak at the Union Amphitheater this Thursday at 2 p.m. on behalf of the Obama campaign, followed by Senator Richard Burr on behalf of the McCain campaign at 3:30 p.m.

The story behind Dean’s impending arrival on campus is very interesting in its simplicity and is a testament to Davidson’s national status among colleges and universities. In order to get Dean to speak here, the school did not have to do anything.

The campaign came to the school.

DJ Carella ’09, President of the Young Democrats, said that the Obama campaign “dropped me an email” informing him that Dean would be coming to campus on behalf of the campaign. The college administration was contacted around the same time as Carella.

This past year Kansas Governor Kathleen Sebelius spoke on campus. This ensured that the DNC was aware of Davidson College, while Carella has been in contact with the campaign during the past months. He did some work for the campaign over the summer and as president of Davidson’s chapter of Young Democrats was an obvious connection for the campaign.

Dean and Burr will speak a day before the voter registration deadline for North Carolina, October 10. Carella said that anyone who wants to register, both Republican and Democrat, will be able to do so at the event.

Also, if anyone wants to get involved with either campaign, there will be volunteer sign-ups.

These volunteers will be critical for the follow-up work the Young Democrats are planning for the last weeks before the campaign. Over the past one and a half months, the Young Democrats and College

See Campaign, page 3

‘Cats eclipse The Citadel, Gardner-Webb