PERSPECTIVES

Mid-Semester Report Card

Starr Eorrowaal, Sustainability: B+
It ain't easy being green, but we seem to be doing a pretty good job to start. It seems that students are making an effort to avoid disposable plastic bottles, and the College's continued effort to supply every incoming freshman with permanent bottles has helped. With that said, we, as a student body, could easily mitigate a whole slew of wasteful practices—whether that means turning off the two televisions in your apartment when no one is home, or not printing that 43-page article for class that you probably won't read anyway. Hopefully, the efforts of the administration and campus organizations will inspire students to examine their own personal practices.

Union Board: A-
A's are hard to come by in the Davidson world, but an A- will do for you. Qdoba for After Midnight? Genius. Sup Koozies? Brilliant. Trivia Night at the Outpost? Michael Rogers, you're the bomb. Of course, we still have the perennial favorites like Live Thursdays, Paint Your Own Pottery, and Davidson Idol. The UB has clearly made a thoughtful effort to expand the appeal of its events.

Career Services: B
Career services, you've stepped it up, and we've noticed. We appreciate the increased number of events on campus and the measures taken to publicize them. Soar After Davidson as well as on-campus mock interviews have been particularly helpful for seniors seeking advice for the always-daunting post-Davidson job search. Still, the eCareers interface remains a bit idiosyncratic and difficult to navigate.

Wireless: Incomplete
Yes, thus far the student body has had difficulty connecting to wireless in certain areas of campus, but ITS has begun to repair, replace, and improve their systems over the last few weeks. Already we are experiencing increased accessibility and faster connections, including within the Davidsonian office. Because the upgrading process is still going on, we don’t want to be too hasty in giving a grade, but we're excited for the second half of the semester.

The Davidsonian
Editor-in-Chief: Suzie Eckl
Managing Editors: Michelle Jester & Brian Moran
News Editors: Kate Kelly & Nina Mace
Perspectives Editors: Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Nomis
Arts & Living Editors: Jennifer Errington & Jennifer Gambrell
Sports Editors: Mike Prongello & Logan Lewis
Head Copy Editors: Christy Camry & Kelsey Lilley
Business, Advertising, and Circulation Managers: Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Lauren Weight
Online Editor: Greg Newman
Content Manager: Kelly Beggs
Section Copy Editors: Julia Edwards, Stephanie Jones & Nami Patel

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail: Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room A11 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2008

Semble’s article identifies key issue on campus

Ashley Semble, in her courageous, well-written, and well-reasoned column, “Homophobia is the elephant on campus,” addressing harassment based on a student's actual or perceived sexuality, asked, “where's the outrage?” Well, insofar as Ashley’s assessment of the on-campus non-reaction is accurate (and I have no reason to disbelieve her), as a gay alumnus living in Charlotte and working ten minutes north up NC Highway 115 (aka Main Street), let me assure Ashley her column and the incidents giving rise to it have become a rallying cry to alumni, gay and straight alike. If the campus community (students and administration) is somehow not shocked and appalled at episodes of sexuality-based harassment, then heed this message from those of us who love Davidson from a distance, contribute our time and funds to support it, and display proudly in our homes and offices hard-earned diplomas and treasured memorabilia from the 2008 NCAA basketball tournament: bullying (because that is at root, what harassment is) a student based on actual or perceived sexual orientation is unacceptable. Especially for you readers tempted to dismiss Ashley Semble or me as victims of political correctness, let me provide some real-life, off-campus context. Many government entities, successful business enterprises, and large and small academic institutions long ago adopted anti-harassment policies encompassing sexuality-based harassment. As an in-house employment attorney for a Fortune 50 company, I happen to have some familiarity with these policies and their enforcement. Thus, I can say with some degree of confidence, that in most employment settings the perpetrators of the on-campus anti-gay bullying would be disciplined severely, if not FIRED (it's not, by the way, a good time to be unemployed in America). In short, intimidating people based on their perceived sexual orientation just won't fly in most civilized situations off-campus. Alumni, gay and straight alike, from across North Carolina, as well as from Atlanta, Washington, D.C., New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, and even Toronto find the possibility of its being condoned on our alma mater's treasured campus inconceivable. And if off-campus involvement or leadership is needed to repudiate and redress anti-gay bullying on campus, then the on-campus community should take notice that a critical mass of motivated alumni is ready to shoulder that responsibility.

Peter M. Varney‘96 Co-founder of the Gay-Straight Alumni Network

How to move beyond homophobia at Davidson

It's time for the administration to promote a cultural change at Davidson that guarantees the safety and respect of each student - regardless of her/his race, gender, sexual orientation, or any other dimension of diversity. As a gay alumnus who didn't come out during college, I'd like to offer two suggestions: school leadership needs to support the GSA’s Safe Space initiative and also promote LGBT alumni involvement in student life.

President Ross and Dean Shandley need to publicly endorse the GSA’s Safe Space initiative to show the school’s commitment to change. The program will train school leaders to create LGBT-friendly environments in social and academic settings. It's particularly important to reach out to first-year students during orientation to allow gay students to identify allies and initiate meaningful dialogue among the student body.

Gay Davidson students need to connect with others who have had similar experiences through the Gay-Straight Alumni Network of Davidson (GSAND). By inviting LGBT alumni to participate in the Safe Space program, Career Services events, and other educational opportunities, the administration can help foster these relationships.

The night before my college graduation, I was singled out at a fraternity party and called a “fag.” It was a tough way to end my college career at a place that I loved. The next day I received my diploma and walked away without ever sharing who I really was with my friends and family. Let's do what is right for the entire Davidson community to ensure that no students are silenced by homophobia.

Lee Crook Bruner ‘04

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor. Please e-mail submissions of fewer than 250 words to davidsonian@davidson.edu. We reserve the right to edit for brevity and grammar. Anonymous letters will not be printed.

---

Vote early, but mind these hurdles

Guest Writer

One-Stop, No-Excuse Early Voting is open. It's also not far away—the Cornelius Town Library is down Main Street, right on W Catawba Avenue, on the right. It takes about five minutes by car, or two miles to walk, but there are a few quick things you should know before you go.

Voter registration fraud has been all over the news lately—and not all of it is perpetrated by people just trying to get a bit of extra cash by submitting fictitious names and leaving ACORN in a bind. Some of it may be caused by partisan leanings. The Republican party is behind in some key polls. While the average Republican may be outraged by the very idea of this, some of them are doing whatever it takes to secure a Republican victory—even if that means making it harder for Democrats, or groups with likely Obama leanings like college students, to vote. Some of these cases have been well publicized, but others are likely flying under the radar.

What's really going to be vital for Davidson students right now, though, is what's going on in their own state. I've been told it's illegal for polling workers to require students to present proof of registration, but that doesn’t mean it’s not happening. This is an issue that may be dealt with in court. But we shouldn't let a few extra steps keep us from voting!

So if you want to vote early, and you're not from North Carolina but still want to vote here, just make sure you have a few things with you before you head over to the Cornelius Library. The first is your CatCard. This shouldn't be a problem, since you'll need it to get back into your dorm when you're done. The second: proof of enrollment. Takes three minutes or less to get, I promise. Head to the registrar’s office (for freshmen, it’s down the main hallway on the first floor of Chambers, towards the Concord Rd. side) and fill out a lovely little yellow form. Then come back later that day or the next and pick up your proof of registration. Most of us have at least one class in Chambers, so this really shouldn't take much time at all. Just swing by after class.

We're being made non-persons by not being permitted to vote—so go vote! Once you've got those two things, you should be ready to go. Some of you will have recently filled out forms to register. The board of elections seems to be swamped with new registrants and is a little behind schedule. From what I understand, if you've got your CatCard and your proof of enrollment, you should be able to register there. If not, please try again when they tell you to—don't fill out the provisional ballot unless you absolutely have to! Chances are it’s not going to count.

I know it may be annoying to have to jump through so many hoops just to exercise your voting right. I went down to the polls on Thursday wary of such roadblocks and waited in line fifteen minutes just to find this stuff out. But we are Americans, born and bred to be free. If you were, are, or would like to be proud of America, I don’t care who you're voting for, just do whatever it takes to make your vote count! We're being made non-persons by not being permitted to vote—so go vote! Get a form!

Laura Shiltingburg ‘09 is a theatre major from Atlanta, Ga. Contact her at lashiltingburg@davidson.edu.