DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Student-initiated theme halls expand
By BRIAN MORAN
Staff Writer

Four student groups will live in internationally themed halls next year, continuing a program developed by the Residence Life Office (RLO) and Dean Rusk International Studies Program, that began this past fall. East Asian, global water, and French language themed halls will occupy the first floor and basement of Duke Residence Hall while the international women’s hall will be located in the basement of Cannon.

Students will engage their theme through an array of activities generated by the groups with the guidance of a faculty adviser. A portion of programming will seek to inform and involve the campus community. With a total of 32 students involved, next year’s themed housing program will feature expanded participation compared with the current year which saw 26 students living on two different halls—the Spanish language hall and the political and economic development hall.

After initiating internationally themed halls this past year, RLO and Dean Rusk revamped the process by which they select both themes and participants for the halls.

Whereas last year’s application process set predetermined themes and asked individual students to submit applications, this year, groups of six or ten committed students were solicited to develop detailed proposals for themes and potential programming.

“We established a more stringent proposal process where a group of applicants had to explicitly state how they envisioned their theme and what sorts of activities they had planned,” said Associate Dean of Residence Life and RLO Director Patty Perillo. “This past year we found that there were students this past year who chose to live on the halls that were not necessarily committed to the themes,” she said. “By having students write their own proposals we ensured that we got students who were deeply committed on the front end.”

Fourteen groups submitted applications by the Feb. 1 deadline. Proposals that were not accepted included themes such as “Cuisines of the World,” “International Trade,” and “International Refugee Awareness.” Applications were evaluated largely on their congruence with the mission of the Dean Rusk Program.

Nicaraguan experiences shared see NEWS, PAGE 3

Track team ready for home meet see SPORTS, PAGE 12

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16, 2008

Phil Sineath ’11 bench presses for breast cancer with fellow Phi Delta Theta members in front of Chambers last Friday. Proceeds benefited the Susan G. Komen Foundation.

Raising questions about academic policy
By ALISSA CURRAN
Staff Writer

Cherishing tradition has always been a hallmark of Davidson College, one that gives way to its unique charm. This year, the Academic Policy Committee, a subcommittee of the Student Government Association, has wrestled with how to improve the Davidson curriculum while maintaining the school’s quaint identity. The committee’s findings are provoking controversial and complex issues across campus.

At the final Academic Policy forum of the year last Wednesday, students and faculty addressed issues regarding the curriculum and academic experience at Davidson. They also discussed how regional, technological, and globalization trends will affect the curriculum and the overall Davidson experience.Academic Policy Committee members Meikaela Zwierynski ’10 and Colby Uptegraft ’09 mediated the discussion, having spent the year examining data collected from various study groups regarding the academic experience at Davidson from current students, alumni, and faculty. President Tom Ross started the meeting by acknowledging the college’s need for an updated curriculum. “We need to take a hard look at where we are right now and identify our strengths, see where there’s room for improvement, and capitalize on those strengths as we move forward,” Ross said. “We’ve looked at regional growth, demographic changes, and globalization; all will have a significant impact on Davidson and will lead to changes in the liberal arts education.” This year, five committees participated in a Strategic Assessment of the college in an effort to highlight the areas of greatest need in response to external factors. This semester, the college created seven more study groups to analyze internal issues at the College. Ross said see Academics, page 2

VOLUME 99, NUMBER 22

WALT goes off-campus
By Curt SMITH
Staff Writer

For the first time in the history of the 29-year radio program, WALT 1610 will have internet streaming. Listeners will have their first opportunity to hear WALT off-campus. At www.walt1610.com, students will have access to non-stop music and special programs. In addition to the endless buffet of music, people will also now have access to all their favorite shows on new podcasts.

“We have been playing around with the idea of internet streaming for several years now, but the pricing of the technology had always prevented it,” said WALT technical director Owen Bussey ’08. “But I knew that if we did not do it this year, we never would.” Bussey then took it upon himself to make sure that this dream became a reality. He worked hand-in-hand with ITS to solve the problems regarding pricing and bandwidth and found someone off-campus who would be able to broadcast the signal worldwide.

In addition to getting past the financial and technological obstacles, Bussey and the rest of the WALT executive board had to prove to the administration that the students were serious about the update. “We had to present the idea to the school in a manner in which we could prove that this would be a successful long-term endeavor. The school is very proud and won’t approve just anything. We had to show we were going to represent Davidson College in a positive way,” Bussey said.

WALT has had intranet streaming for computers connected to the campus networks for several years, which only allows students and faculty to listen to the feed while on campus. Before 1978, students broadcasted their own shows via the WDAV-FM signal, which is an off-campus affiliate of WALT. The station has now grown from being a weak 10-watt AM station that could barely be heard off-campus, to a station that can reach any audience anywhere in the world. The new internet feed launched the Monday after spring break. This marks the first time since 1978 that anyone not on the Davidson campus can listen to live broadcasts of WALT’s radio station instead of receiving a weak AM see WALT, page 4