THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 2008

Student art show excellent, poorly judged

By SARAH BETH KEYSER
Staff Writer

My only prior experience with Davidson’s Visual Arts Center has been acting as a hand model for my roommate’s sculpture project, which involved sticking my hands in a huge container of dubious white goop. I wasn’t sure what to expect from the Student Art Exhibition opening last Thursday. The scene did not look too promising as I wandered into the largely empty atrium. The DJ was late and the only sign of movement was a kinetic sculpture, “Untitled,” by Maddy Kelly ’08 which consisted of a white tutu which zipped toward the ceiling and then gracefully fell toward the floor in a rush of tulle. However, people soon began to wander in, including Associate Professor of Art Cort Savage, who affably began to greet visitors. The doors to the small exhibit rooms were opened, and by the end of the evening, it was difficult to get a close look at a painting because of the crowd.

The great variety of artwork both in terms of theme and materials was incredible. Perhaps because of looming end-of-semester deadlines, I saw several works that reminded me of my current stress level, such as “Trapped Interior #3” by Tarlton Long ’08, which featured a rather tortured-looking soul framed by the words “get me out.” Or a lithograph and chine collé work by Mark Currin ’08 entitled “I Don’t Care,” featuring an Oregon Trail theme inscribed with, “I don’t care if Johnny has a broken arm, if Sarah has typhoid fever, if all of my oxen are dead, and if I just got bitten by a rattlesnake. You bet your wagon I want to hunt again.” Looking at these expressions of both desperation and perseverance, I realized that even the way in which I interpret art has not escaped unscathed from the stress of impending finals.

I was also amused by the playfulness of some of my fellow Davidson students. Emily Miller ’10 created a mischievous rendition of the cartoon character Gumby entitled “Gumby’s Smile.” The rich blue and green hues of Gumby smiling at his reflection were endearing and artful all at once. Another entertaining work was an oil on canvas painting by Katharine Phiegar ’08 aptly named “Blue Moon” which captured a lovely female bottom in aqua colors. It seems our students are skillful with sculptures as well; Grant Clark ’10 created an imposing work entitled “Edamame,” which he claimed was inspired by soybeans. It was constructed of hundreds of pieces of scrap metal, wood, and dozens of boxes of sugar cubes. It took Grant around five weeks to complete, which isn’t hard to imagine considering how much time went into welding together spheres of metal made of scrap pieces and gluing the dozens of rows of carefully aligned sugar cubes.

Bill Fick of Duke University and Cockeyed Press served as guest juror for this year’s art exhibition, and three students won cash prizes for their artwork. The first place award and a cash prize of $500 went to junior Ambrice Miller’s graphite sketch “Untitled,” of a rather rotund figure with multiple versions of a face above his midsection. One viewer remarked that it reminded them of a sufferer of multiple personality disorder. While I thought all of this year’s winners were great, I found fault with the judging process. With such a diverse range of artwork and so many excellent pieces, I feel like it should have at the very least been a vote on which pieces were awarded prizes. However, congratulations to all the winners, as well as to all the students whose pieces were selected for this year’s art exhibition, which proved to be a thought-provoking experience for all in attendance.

Student artists prepare for Davidson Creates

By JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Staff Writer

Over a year ago, a group of student artists gathered for lunch on a day like...any other. During this habitual occurrence, the light-hearted conversation eventually led to the arts at Davidson, and the group unanimously agreed that they wanted to improve and spread the presence of the arts on campus. After the group asked the obvious question of “What is the best way to go about this task?” the solution came almost instantly — an arts festival to celebrate the variety of artistic outlets represented in the community. And so “Davidson Creates” was born.

Over the summer, an arts organizational board formed, headed by President Darryl Ratcliff ’08 and Vice President Cody Elder ’08. Other members include Andrew Waddell ’08, Martelle Esposito ’08, Melissa Gilkey ’09, Harper Addison ’08, David McClay ’08, Eric Morel ’09, and Thomas Christy ’10. Each member heads one of several committees: Visual Arts, Music, Dance, Theater, Creative Writing, and Film. After the initial formation, the group sent emails to on-campus artists, asking for those who might be interested in participating in a festival during the upcoming school year. Overall, artists’ responses were impressive, totaling over 100. With such a positive beginning, committees began to form and the emails continued to fly.

With the start of the 2007-2008 school year, the committees decided to hold Davidson’s first arts show in over 40 years this spring. This weekend, starting May 2, students and the surrounding community will have the opportunity to see what has grown from a quaint lunchroom idea into a magnificent project. Davidson Creates kicks off with its opening parade on Friday, May 5 at 5 p.m. To help celebrate, the student body is invited to gather on Chambers lawn. The parade will weave its colorful way throughout the various traveling dance exhibitions. Along with this theme, a song and dance workshop will also be offered at this time in Baker Sports Complex. The workshop will cost $15 and focuses on an Afro-Cuban dance style known as Orisha. Beginners are encouraged to attend. Students and guests will have the opportunity to learn Orisha at a dance workshop.

The rest of Friday’s events take place in the Union. While an opening reception will offer a chance to chat with artists and enjoy refreshments, the Lake Norman Jugglers have planned a demonstration and instructional workshop. Those up for the challenge should try their hand at some of the group’s amazing juggling techniques. Two big events will close the first day of the festival. First, Duke Family Performance Hall will host the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra. Directed entirely by student conductors, the concert will feature a repertoire of classical selections. To conclude the day, a fashion show will be hosted in the 900 Room as students model clothes from Avalilly’s, Monkees, Goodwill, Student Designs, and the environmentally conscious clothes from Bittersweet Design House. Look for a section on “What Not to Wear” for some big laughs.

On Saturday, the Arts continue with another full day of events, all of which will take place in the Union. Throughout the day, visitors are welcome to explore the “Pieces of Peace” art exhibition, view student films at the film festival, learn about artists’ techniques at an art workshop, and listen to student musicians performing. Though the day offers an abundance of creative happenings, highlights include a performance by the hilarious student improvisational comedy group Oops at 1 p.m. and Davidson’s fifth annual Battle of the Bands. This musical throw-down starts at 9 p.m. in the Union Atrium and will go on into the late hours of the night. Prepare to see student bands compete for bragging rights, fame, and fortune.

Much effort has gone into planning what is sure to be a memorable and enlightening celebration of the Arts at Davidson. President Darryl Ratcliff said, “We ultimately want to provide leadership for the arts here, to give students the opportunity to pursue outside contacts in the art world...interaction breeds communication and allows for the arts to flourish.” As a result of the festival, student art leaders have been provided with an outlet to present their creative media in a unique and highly imaginative way.