THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 2, 2008 3

OLAS, PS, Timmy Foundation to co-host fundraiser

By ELLEN VISER
Staff Writer

This weekend, the Organization of Latin American Students (OLAS), the Timmy Foundation, and PS will co-host a fundraiser to help support the building of a new hospital in Quito, Ecuador. The event, ¡Bailemos!, is an evening of dinner and dancing to be held in Vail Commons on April 4, and all of the proceeds will go directly to the national Timmy Foundation.

The highlights of the benefit will be the Latin American cuisine, prepared by student-run restaurant PS, and the professional salsa band, funded by OLAS. For attendees new to salsa dancing, there will be a quick lesson on the basics immediately following dinner.

The Timmy Foundation is a national non-profit organization that supports humanitarian projects in Colombia, Guatemala, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Haiti, and Jamaica. The organization’s goal is to help provide healthcare and education in order to brighten the futures of children in developing countries.

Although based in Indianapolis, Timmy has local chapters in numerous high schools and nine colleges, and depends greatly on both monetary and volunteer support from these chapters. They only have four salaried employees, so hundreds of volunteers are imperative to the success of large-scale projects in the six countries.

The Davidson chapter is involved in the Ecuadorian project, called The New World Foundation, which focuses its efforts in the capital city, Quito. Through donations and volunteer work, the Foundation has already built one hospital in the city and now plans a second that will be called “Singing for Life.” The new hospital will be a bigger, state-of-the-art facility and will help a different area of the metropolis. The two hospitals will not compete but rather facilitate each other in providing medical care to the city’s estimated 2.1 million people.

Another focus of The New World Foundation is encouraging community involvement in Quito, largely in order to foster a feeling of accomplishment and ownership. The local groups spearhead constant support and provide much media coverage.

Davidson’s chapter of the Timmy Foundation is two years old and was founded in part by Ecuadorian Maria José Mejia ’09. The group fundraises tirelessly for the Ecuador project and goes on an annual mission trip to Quito every winter. Each year, the lifestyle differences in the South American country astonish the students, who vow to continue helping people however they can.

Mejia loves to see such enthusiasm for helping her country, especially by people who are otherwise unattached to Ecuador.

“It is touching to see that so many people care about issues that don’t necessarily touch their own lives,” she said. “It’s wonderful that others care about my home as much as I do.”

Timmy maintains a permanent fundraiser. Each Tuesday and Thursday from 5-10 p.m. the group sells woven bracelets and belts as well as freshly baked cookies in the Union. However, none of these funds go toward the club’s trips. In an attempt to maximize the money given directly to the project, one of Timmy’s policies is that no fundraising can be done to support the volunteer missions, so the students fund their own trips.

OLAS, PS, and the Timmy Foundation encourage students, faculty, and staff to come to ¡Bailemos! on Friday for authentic Latin American cuisine and entertainment. Anyone interested in participating in the Timmy Foundation’s next mission trip is especially urged to attend. Tickets to the event are available all week in the Union. They are $12 in advance and $15 at the door.