10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tiger Curis
YOUNG Staff Writer

After his long putt dropped to clinch a 5 and 4 victory over Sergio Garcia and cement himself as one of the world’s top clutch golfers, the USA’s Anthony Kim ran to the next tee, expecting to play more golf. His excitement overwhelmed him, as he had not even realized that he had clinched his singles match on the final day of Ryder Cup play.

Garcia has long been a symbol for European dominance over the United States in Ryder Cup play (the USA has not won the Cup since a miraculous comeback in 1999). Oft maligned for his inability to win big tournaments on the PGA Tour, Garcia has been nearly infallible in Ryder Cup play. In fact, he has been so good that he almost never fails to capture the whole point available in the matches. Alongside the 23-year-old Kim, though, Garcia was up against a wave of emotion that has been missing from the Americans since Justin Leonard’s “putt heard round the world” fell to defeat Europe in 1999. Kim credited the crowd with spurring him on during his dominating win over Garcia.

Garcia’s personal role reversal mirrored the teams’ reversals of fortune. For the past decade, the American side has entered the Ryder Cup as the prohibitive favorite, only to come out displaying a malaise that sinks them to insurmountable early deficits each time. This year, however, the U.S. demonstrated a fiery passion, took an early lead, and never looked back in controlling the entire match.

All of which brings me to my main point. The world’s premier golfer (and arguably premier athlete) resides in the United States. Tiger Woods will almost certainly go down as the greatest golfer to ever play the game. His Ryder Cup record, though? An astoundingly poor 10-13-2. So why does that matter? The U.S. won this time, right? So Woods could not have played too poorly. Well, here’s the revelation that adds even more intrigue to the U.S. team’s big victory: Woods did not play. Sidelined by a torn ACL that ended his PGA season after his U.S. Open win, Woods presumably watched the Ryder Cup proceedings with his family, in the comfort of his own home. While I do not think anyone would explicitly argue that not having Woods was an advantage for the U.S. team, the team’s performance indicates a strong improvement over the last three matches.

Men’s soccer falls in final conference tune-up
ZACH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

On Saturday afternoon, the men’s soccer team played its final match before conference play against the University of South Carolina Gamecocks. Despite Davidson’s great effort, the team fell 4-0 in Columbia, S.C.

To begin the game, South Carolina wasted no time in an offensive attack, scoring in the seventh minute when Jeff Scannella knocked in a goal off of a throw-in. Only six minutes later, the Gamecocks would score once more to get an early 2-0 lead. Despite multiple attempts, Davidson could not score in the first half.

The second half characterized a different Davidson team. Although Davidson still did not score and was outshot 22-10 for the game, they matched USC’s eight shots in the second half. USC went on to score twice more, once early in the second half and once with four minutes left in the game. Six Davidson players had shot attempts while Yannick Pilgrim ’11, Whitey Bolan ’09, and Mark Millard ’12 all had two shots apiece. Robby Goldsberry ’10 registered five more saves in the net for the 'Cats and leads the conference in goalkeeper saves.

Football (2-1)
Results:
9/27 vs. Jacksonville W 38-35

Field Hockey (3-7)
Results:
9/26 vs. Catawba W 5-0
9/28 vs. Monmouth L 0-3

Woods’ absence key to American Ryder Cup victory

-were thrust into the spotlight and forced to perform. They

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2008 SPORTSOnly main difference? Woods’ absence. I will not be the one that sits here and says that the team was better off without Tiger, but we must seriously consider the possibility. While Woods is a fierce competitor who has been consistently excellent over the course of his career, he has never truly concentrated on the Ryder Cup. While Europe’s top players prepare for the event and truly grind it out, Woods’ focus has been, and always will be, on the four major championships.

Without Tiger, this year’s U.S. team consisted of veterans such as Kenny Perry, whose career goal was to play in the Ryder Cup. Also, Boo Weekley, a Cup rookie, brought excitement and brashness to the team. The golfers played with the ferocity of an underdog and without the complacency of the favorite. Without Woods, players felt the need to step up and take charge of their matches. Men like Kim, Perry, and Weekley responded with enormous enthusiasm and often-spectacular play. Woods is capable of better golf than anyone on the planet, but he would never have duplicated Weekley’s antics or Perry’s burning desire to play in the event. The players that did represent the United States represented it as well as could possibly be expected. They responded to the adversity of not having Tiger on the roster, and as a result, played with the perfect attitude. Without Woods, the team felt like underdogs, forcing themselves into the mindset that Garcia had used with so much success. With Tiger, the team would have been the favorites once more. With the roles reversed, it was the U.S. team that played with emotion and played to win, as Europe had done for years. For that attitude and emotion, we have Tiger’s balky knee to thank.

“We have put in hard work, and despite the recent results we know that we can compete with anyone,” Josh Zipin ’11 said, “Wednesday will be a battle between two teams trying to start conference play right.” Davidson opens conference play against perennial SoCon power UNCG at Alumni Stadium tonight at 7 p.m.

Top Five in Points
1. Alex Caskey
2. Machel Turner
3. Clinton Smith
4. Robert O’Donnell
5. Whitey Bolan

Next Up:
10/4 @ Morehead State
10/1 @ Appalachian State
10/4 @ Radford

Notes: Ben Behrendt ’11 kicked the game-winning field goal with just over 42 seconds remaining to give the ’Cats a happy ending to an eventful homecoming weekend.

Notes: After splitting a weekend set of games, the ’Cats look to battle back tonight against the Mountaineers of Appalachian State.

Men’s Soccer (7-1)
Results:
9/27 @ South Carolina L 0-4
9/28 @ Wofford W 1-0
Next Up:
10/1 vs. UNC-Greensboro
Notes: Coming off a tough series of road tests, the Wildcats are looking to get back on track tonight with a home game against UNC-G.

Women’s Soccer (4-2-3)
Results:
9/25 @ Furman W 3-2
9/27 vs. Samford L 0-3
Next Up:
10/3 vs. Samford
10/5 vs. Chattanooga
Notes: The ’Cats got off to an excellent start in SoCon play, winning their first two road tests.

Volleyball (5-10)
Results:
9/24 vs. Ga. Southern L 0-3
9/28 vs. Chattanooga W 3-2
Next Up:
10/4 @ CofC
10/5 @ The Citadel
Notes: After grabbing a victory against Chattanooga, the ’Cats look to improve their record with three more tough matches this week.

Men’s and Women’s Cross Country
Results:
Next Up:
10/4 Greater Louisville Cross Country Classic
Notes: ’Cats are preparing for the Greater Louisville Cross Country Classic which begins Saturday.