Achieve this goal—a new method of learning must also be encouraged. Interdisciplinary approaches do just that by studying varying perspectives
and disciplines. This wouldn’t detract from Davidson’s educational goal of thinking critically and analytically, or from concentrations. We are not
discounting the value of exploring rather, interdisciplinary programs aim to explore and bring coherence and connectedness.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor-in-Chief: Suzie Eckl
Managing Editors: Michelle Jester & Brian Moran
News Editors: Kate Kelly & Nina Mace
Perspectives Editors: Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris
Arts & Living Editors: Jennifer Errington & Jennifer Gambrell
Yowl Editors: Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian
Sports Editors: Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
Head Copy Editors: Christy Carry & Kelsey Lilley
Business, Advertising, and Circulation Managers: Jordan Wall, Laura Fontaine & Lauren Wright
Online Editor: Greg Newman
Content Manager: Kelly Beggs
Section Copy Editors: Julia Edwards & Nami Patel

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room
411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the
views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright
is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Trends? As stated in a previous Perspectives article regarding the environmental studies concentration, instead we believe.

SPENCER COWAN
Guest Writer

According to my friend Mario Silva, Davidson’s failure to officially recognize atheism is “a fundamental flaw.” Davidson’s Statement of Purpose
explains, “since its founding, the ties that bind the college to its Presbyterian heritage...have remained close and strong.” The Statement
calls the connection between the church and the college “a vital relationship.” The Presbyterian tradition, it seems, is an essential
attribute of Davidson College. By calling this attribute a flaw, Silva, who seems to appreciate logic, would have to acknowledge
that Davidson College is a flawed institution. I beg to differ.

The third paragraph of the Statement of Purpose offers three main points. A: There is truth. B: God is the
source of truth. C: With faith in God, teachers and students may pursue truth through the use of reason. Interestingly,
the Statement concedes that God is “bound by no church or creed.” While Davidson College happens to be a Presbyterian
institution, Presbyterian or Christian faith is not required to pursue truth. However, some belief in a greater power is a
prerequisite for this pursuit (President-elect Obama does not count). Silva, it seems, would be satisfied if the statement recognized the
merits of atheism. The Statement, he believes, should be open not just to different religious traditions but also to atheism.

I should mention that Silva is a really friendly guy who does not seem to judge anyone. Davidson’s Statement, however,
should not be as nonjudgmental as Silva. There are some ideas that the Statement should reject. Atheism is one. The
college and student should not be so open as to accept all ideas as equal—total openness closes the mind to
the belief in anything at all. Fortunately, the Statement recognizes this. The college, it reads, “intends to teach all students...to
make relevant and valid judgments.” Could you imagine if the Declaration of Independence, in addition to recognizing life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness, was also open to totalitarianism? Just as totalitarianism is antithetical to liberal democracy, so too is
atheism to Davidson’s purpose.

The Statement’s affirmation of the existence of God does not interfere with the pursuit of truth inside the classroom. The
Biology Department’s celebration of Darwin Year and the Philosophy Department’s fall course offering, Philosophy of Religion, are just two examples
of the college’s academic integrity. Davidson is no Bible college. Courses seem to have only one presumption: there is truth
worth pursuing. There are no “facts,” which Silva seeks in his pursuit of truth, to support the existence of God.
There is no empirical evidence to affirm the truth and goodness of toleration or openness, either. At times though, we
believe some things to be true and good, even if there is no data to support our cause. Silva clearly
values truth—even atheists cannot divorce value from fact entirely.

It is unfortunate that Silva feels victimized by anti-atheist discrimination. But, as glad as I am that Silva attends Davidson,
he was not brought here against his will. Davidson must (and I think it does) tolerate atheist students, treating these
fine individuals no differently from the most devout Presbyterians. However, Davidson can easily draw a distinction between toleration and acceptance.
This private institution need not accept atheism as a valid and good belief. The college, without question, must prepare its
students for the professional world. Its more important and difficult task is to nourish the souls of its students. Thus,
the college has an obligation to foster intellectual and spiritual growth. Failure to do so would be a fundamental flaw.

Spencer Cowan ’11 is a political science major from Cincinnati, Ohio. Contact him at spcowan@davidson.edu.

America’s strength is through unity
SUNNY LEE
Guest Writer

I was going to talk about politics, but let’s talk about Batman.Instead, Christopher Nolan could not have picked a better
year than 2008 to film The Dark Knight. The struggle between Batman and the Joker could be considered iconic in
its representation of our time. I’m going to take a leap and say that the parallels to our recent election
are almost freaky at times. Of course, none of the candidates were dressing up at night and fist-fighting criminals on
rooftops (although, I would point out that Barack Obama and Batman have never been seen in the same room together
- coincidence?). But one thing we can learn from the movie is that Obama is the hero America needs, but
not the one America deserves. Living in the boring regular world, we don’t have a masked man who will fix
everything for us. If we want heroism, it must ultimately come from the people themselves, and if we provide any
less than this we are failing ourselves as a people and a country. We — liberals, moderates, and conservatives alike
— have achieved so much to be proud of thus far in the past year. But to labor under the
misconception that the struggle for advancement is over now that the election’s over is not only wrong but extraordinarily dangerous.
Active citizenry, much like charity and generosity, is not simply a singular act but rather a mindset of constant vigilance.
If we try to make it into anything less we risk diminishing all that we have accomplished. We cannot rely
on Obama to do it for us. He, like all politicians, is simply a means to the end. He will
not be able to do anything substantive working alone. He will neither be any sort of liberal messiah, as he’s
already proven with the FISA amendments act this July, nor will he ever be the megalomaniacal politician some people imagine
he might. He is an enabler and a moderate, which is what every good and effective leader should aspire to
be. He has given us the energy and conviction that we have been missing for so long, and now it
is our job to take our country back. It worries me that the intense energy of election night seems to
have all but dissipated in the following weeks. We may have won the battle, but we will lose the war
of attrition against those who would deprive people of their representation. The most challenging part of our duty will be
that we cannot just be citizens when we are called upon — we must do it every day. Because it
is during extraordinary circumstances that our spirit as a free nation is most evident, but it is during ordinary circumstances
under which it is constantly tested and measured. Sometimes it will be tough to maintain enthusiasm, especially in the midst
of corruption and pettiness, but you need to believe in Harvey Dent even if all you have is Two-Face. The
men behind the message may twist and warp as they have done countless times in the past — but the
message itself is incorruptible. It is beyond the procedural nonsense and high-ground posturing that politics have become. Too often politics
have become an issue of tying policies down to the faults of a man. They have become too attached to
the men who champion them. The roots of the word politics come from the ancient Greek polis, a word for
both a city-state and its citizenry. A politician, therefore, was literally a man of the city — and nothing more.
Similarly, we need to become men and women of our country. I consider myself a fairly fanatical liberal, but, if
we are to safeguard the American spirit, we have to become more than just hippies and proselytizers, as easy as
it is to see each other in these restrictive terms. We must instead focus on seeing each other as equals
and on working together to overcome obstacles towards a better America. Should one of these obstacles eventually become Obama himself,
then so be it. Liberals cannot and should not be any more forgiving to him than a Republican president simply
because of a little blue pin. Even though I sorely doubt any president in the near future will reach half
the level of epic failure that Bush sustained for an overwhelming eight years, it is our job to hold them
all accountable to the same withering standards of competence and integrity that the current administration suffered. It is not an
executive privilege to be free from criticism — it is our privilege as citizens to criticize. It’s funny, in retrospect,
how close we came to leaving our next president up to chance. On one side of the coin, we had
John McCain (everything a true man of the people should be), a man whose history of independent thought had won
him respect and admiration (before his inexplicable implosion during his campaign). On the other, we had Sarah Palin as McCain’s
vice president. She represented everything we should strive not to be — self-righteous, denunciatory, and woefully uninformed. And sure, it’s
easy to bash on Palin now that she’s a certified loser, but consider this: McCain wouldn’t have picked her in
the first place if we hadn’t allowed him to get away with it.

Sunny Lee is undeclared. He is from New York, N.Y. Contact him at sulee@davidson.edu.
