DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Davidson’s GPA lower than peers’

By KATE GILLESPIE
Staff Writer

At last Thursday’s SGA meeting, senators discussed SGA’s response to research showing that GPAs at Davidson are lower than those at Davidson’s peer institutions. President Tom Ross commissioned Linda LeFauve, Director of Planning and Institutional Research, to conduct the study. LeFauve requested that Higher Education Data Sharing (HEDS) schools share the mean GPAs of their 2007 graduating classes. The mean GPA for the 35 schools that responded was 3.28. Davidson’s mean GPA of 3.18 placed the school 29th on the list of 35.

The respondents to LeFauve’s request for mean GPAs included 11 of Davidson’s 19 peer institutions. The mean GPA for this group was 3.38. Davidson’s GPA was the lowest. The highest GPA amongst peer institutions was 3.5, which came from a school in the Midwest. The school that ranked directly above Davidson was a Southern school where the mean GPA was 3.27.

The research was presented to the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) on March 31. Meikaela Zwieryznski ’10, student liaison to the EPC and head of the Student Affairs Committee, presented the findings to senators at Thursday’s meeting. According to Zwieryznski, faculty members on the EPC responded by saying that the research does not indicate that Davidson is deflating grades, but rather that other schools are inflating them.

Senators, however, ignored this question of semantics and discussed the effects of lower overall grades for Davidson graduates. “This mainly affects students applying to law school, med school and grad school,” Whitney White ’08 said. White also cited the importance of GPAs for students seeking jobs in financial institutions and on Wall Street, both of which have “pretty serious cut-offs” for GPAs.

Zwieryznski said that the EPC’s discussion of this issue reached the conclusion that, although graduates may initially receive mediocre jobs, “a liberal arts education will prepare you with the analytical skills” for better jobs in the future. According to Zwieryznski, faculty on the committee also said that raising Davidson GPAs would sacrifice the school’s academic integrity. “They’re worried about lowering the bar, lowering the standard,”

see Deflation, page 3

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Charity Event Cancelled
see YOWL, PAGE 9

Stalking Louisiana releases CD
see A&L, PAGE 11

Baseball team takes two
see SPORTS, PAGE 16

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 2008
“THE SOUTH’S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”
VOLUME 99, NUMBER 21

House sign a petition to the Board of Trustees supporting the divestment of funds invested in companies that indirectly support genocide in Sudan

College braces for high yield

By Suzie Eck
Editor-in-Chief

Davidson College typically aims for an incoming freshman class size of 460-470 students, but what happens when one of the nation’s top liberal arts colleges goes on a NCAA Tournament rampage, knocking out powerhouses like Gonzaga, Georgetown and Wisconsin on its way to an Elite Eight berth?

Since mailing out acceptance letters to about 930 high school seniors almost two weeks ago, the Davidson Admissions staff, as well as the Residence Life Office and Dean of Students, have wrestled this question. The Admissions Office has awarded roughly the same number of acceptance letters as last year. However, becauseOf an increase in the number of applications, only about 26 percent of applicants received admission. Typically, Davidson anticipates about a 29 percent yield—the term for the number of accepted students who choose to enroll. So far, the yield this month shows no deviation from the usual, which is some comfort to students, faculty, and staff. While there is no sure way to determine the exact yield ahead of time, the basketball team’s success has thrown the inexact science out the window, replacing it with a giant question mark. Admissions, the Dean of Students, and the Residence Life Office have donated many man-hours to developing a variety of contingency plans, just in case Davidson receives, say, 20-100 extra students next year. Director of Residence Life Patty Perillo is currently working on a variety of models based on the number of freshmen exceeding available beds. She will present these models as suggestions to the Dean of Students sometime next week. “It’s good practice to think ‘What if?’” she said. In the past, Davidson has usually had more first-year students than available first-year beds and has thus converted hall lounges into dorm rooms. However, Perillo hopes to avoid this common practice. “We are deeply committed to keeping the freshman lounges,” she said. “Common areas build communities in halls and enrich the cohort experience.” In an effort to replace the beds lost due to the renovation of freshman dormitories Watts and Richardson this summer, Perillo, with the combined input of both staff and students, recently decided to use the larger Cannon Dorm as a freshman building while housing upperclassmen in Little Dorm. Still, Perillo admits that if a larger-than-usual incoming freshman class makes it necessary, lounges might have to be converted into rooms. The use of the Davidson townhomes, as well as Davidson-owned houses in the town, is also under consideration.

Genius brings batteries to life
By Nina Mace
News Editor

On Tuesday night, acclaimed scientist Dr. Angela Belcher visited campus to present the 2008 Smith Lecture. Belcher is the Germeshausen Professor of Materials Science and Biological Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Her talk was entitled, “From Nature and Back Again: Giving New Life to Materials for Energy, Electronics, and the Environment.” Belcher won a MacArthur “Genius” award in 2004, and she was the 2006 Researcher of the Year in Scientific American. Dr. David Brown, Professor of Chemistry at Davidson, described Belcher’s work as “innovative, interdisciplinary, cutting-edge research.” According to her biography on the MIT website, “The focus of Dr. Belcher’s research is understanding and using the process by which Nature makes materials in order to design novel hybrid organic-inorganic electronic and magnetic materials on new length scales.” Last night, Belcher’s lecture focused specifically on her team’s development of a new lithium-ion battery. Belcher said the main questions with which she began her research were: “Can we give genetic information to systems that don’t have genetic material?” and “Can we pass on genetic code to a battery or a solar cell?” Belcher’s research works with a new set of building materials: viruses. Though a virus may sound ominous to the general public, these viruses are benign and...