THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING > WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 2008

Quidditch no longer just at Hogwarts
By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

The game of “Quidditch,” invented and popularized by J.K. Rowling’s multi-million-dollar “Harry Potter” series, has taken on new interest on college campuses. In 2005, current Middlebury junior English major Xander Manshel and 21-year-old art history major Alex Benepe from New York created a land-bound version of Harry’s favorite sport. And now, so popular has Quidditch become at Middlebury, that this small liberal arts college has officially founded the 300-plus member Intercollegiate Quidditch Association to finalize the set of rules and provide an outlet for play. Since then, colleges around the country have literally caught the bug — or snitch, shall we say. In fact, eight colleges across the northeast were in the lead having taken up the art of Quidditch, with schools ranging from Wesleyan to UPenn, Princeton and Dartmouth, and now over 80 colleges and universities across the country, including Vassar, Whitman, Amherst, BU and Bucknell, claim the sport as part of their club recreational and intramural programs.

As strange as it might seem for mere mortals to recreate a sport practiced by a young wizard - none other than Mr. Potter himself, one of the greatest protagonists of our literary era - Harry and Quidditch are not a far cry from active college students. In fact, apart from the obvious lack of magical powers and messenger owl, all you need is a group of students eccentric enough to run around with broomsticks between their legs to propel Quidditch from the books to the field. And college campuses are nearly perfect venues for the sport. Step one: nix the goal posts and hurdles and use any large, grassy athletic field for game time. Set up three golden hoops at each end of the field, suspended a few feet in the air by 2x4 poles. Each team consists of 12 to 15 players, seven of whom are on the field playing at any given time. Uniforms are highly important: like any serious athlete, Under Armour and sweatpants are a must, and so are goggles and colorful capes, which can range from bed sheets to shower curtains. The game’s most humorous feature is the broomstick, held firmly between each player’s legs. Admittedly, the brooms serve next to no purpose apart from forcing the players to invent amusing strategies to keep them secured in place and push the entire ensemble into the realm of the wonderfully absurd. And while it is a sad fact of life, and as much as we might wish it, our Nimbus 2000 just won’t fly. Faced with this slight dilemma, collegiate “Potter” aficionados have adapted the game to be known as “Muggle Quidditch,” to account for this detail.

Eager “Muggle Quidditch” players prep mid-game for a “Bludger” shot.

Therefore to play the game earth-bound, three “Chasers” pass a “Quaffle,” usually a volleyball, amongst each other, attempting to shoot it into the opposing team’s hoops, which would score ten points. The “Keeper” functions like a goalie, trying to prevent the “Chasers” from scoring. In the meantime, two “Beaters” use brightly colored dodge balls as “Bludgers” (apologies to those who have not read the books, but explaining each term would be superfluous — it’s time to brush up on your Quidditch knowledge) to distract and peg opposing team members, who, if hit, must drop any ball he or she is currently holding, and return to the respective team’s line of hoops before playing again — a concept akin to dodge ball. In the Rowling series, the crowning moment of glory and immediate end to the game comes when the “Seeker” catches the golden, winged “Snitch.” This elusive ball takes on the most fantastic characteristics, randomly disappearing for minutes at a time, only to emerge in a frenzied torrent. Because it must be caught in flight, the “Muggle” version becomes rather tricky, thus claiming the most liberties. Instead of a golden ball, the next obvious solution is a quick-footed, long-distance runner dressed head-to-toe in yellow. The runner is expected to leave the field and race through campus in ten-minute intervals until he or she is caught, which usually happens after about 20 minutes. To “catch” the human “Snitch,” a player must remove a lumpy sock hanging from the back of the runner’s shorts, much like in a game of ‘capture the flag,’ earning an instant 50 points and ending the game. And in the spir-Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

It of the game’s inherent high-injury risk - broken arms and knocking opponents off brooms - “Muggle Quidditch” features no fouls, so anything is fair game. A game which appeals equally to men and women, “Muggle Quidditch” is the latest craze resulting when magical pop culture meets stressed college students. And bridging the rather vast gap between literature and athletics, this game is allegedly a down-to-earth way to spend some quality time in competition and capes.

By MICHELLE JESTER Managing Editor

On Tuesday, April 29, at 8 p.m., Davidson’s Theatre 101 class concluded the semester with their performance of “Hansel and Gretel.” Although guided by Assistant Professor Scott Ripley, the play was written, designed, and produced entirely by the 29 students of the Theatre 101 class. The play featured Gonzalo Sanchez-Silk ’11 as Hansel, Stacie Binney ’11 as Gretel, Joey Tabler ’10 as the woodcutter father, Ellie Szykowny ’11 as the conniving stepmother, Mike Hatch ’11 as the fox, and Stephanie Vertongen ’10 as the maiden and witch. It retold the Hansel and Gretel story in a comical framework unlike the traditional fairytale.

In this version, the stepmother convinces the woodcutter to leave his two children (Hansel and Gretel) in the woods so that they can live alone in sexual bliss. Lost in the woods, Hansel and Gretel try to find their way home but their efforts are compromised by their petty sibling bickerings and Hansel’s wandering eye. Entranced by a witch disguised as a beautiful maiden, Hansel finds himself in the throes of a child-eating witch. Despite their earlier fights, Gretel saves Hansel from the witch and they escape together due to sibling teamwork. After they escape from the witch, Hansel and Gretel are able to find their way back home with the help of a sexually deprived Jamaican man trapped in the body of a fox. When they return home, they find that their father has eliminated the evil and controlling stepmother, and thus the source of their family problems. And, as the story goes, Hansel, Gretel, and their father live happily ever after.

The production was clearly a comical piece, but it also had the faintest bit of moral substance with lessons about the importance of families and sibling relationships. The message of the play, although second place to the play’s humor, did make it across to the audience that “familial love conquers all.” Despite the jokes, rap interludes, sexual innuendos, compromising body movements, and awkward moments, the “tree actors” were the hit of the night judging by the audience’s reaction. Standing on stage for most of the time, the slightest movement, act, or facial expression of the trees got the room roaring with laughter. The play received a standing ovation. The audience’s appreciation of the play was not just a tribute to the hard work of the Theatre 101 class but also to Scott Ripley.

Although beloved by his students, Ripley was not asked to come back to Davidson next year, so last night’s production was the culmination of Ripley’s career at Davidson. However, this is most certainly not the end of his theatrical vocation. He will be performing in “I Am My Own Wife” with the Actors Theatre of Charlotte and Blumenthal PAC. After his class’s production last night, attending Ripley’s performance will be an even greater treat. Written by Doug Wright, the play tells the story of a real-life German transvestite who defied and survived the repressive Nazi and Communist regimes through wit and charm. Due to her work as a cultural ambassador, she was awarded Germany’s most prestigious civil award in 1993. “I Am My Own Wife” will be performed at the Booth Playhouse in Charlotte, May 6 to 18. Performances on Tuesday through Saturday are at 8 p.m. while matinee shows on Sunday are at 3 p.m. Students can buy discounted tickets for $15 by calling (704) 372-1000 or visit http://BlumenthalCenter.org/rush.

Other Areas of Practice: Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning, Litigation, Real Estate, Social Security Disability, Wills & Trusts

In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699 (Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)