Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

This with a grateful Sat! anticipating free hours next week to devote to exams and final papers. Our staff will
all miss the Class of 2008, to whom we offer our heartfelt congratulations. That being said, certain behaviors witnessed during
last weekend’s Spring Frolics made us re-think the social choices of certain alumni visiting campus. While few people would deny
enjoying the sight of young children on campus, frolics hardly seems an appropriate time to introduce your toddler to your
alma mater. What is fun for students and, yes, alumni can be dangerous for children left free to run around
the court. We’re not saying that every parent acted irresponsibly, but we do question the extent to which people put
their trust in this campus.

The Davidson community provides a generally safe and trusting environment; however, letting your child run up the back steps of
Warner and only claiming him 15 minutes later from a group of women you have never before seen in your
life remains questionable behavior. Many fraternities and eating houses welcomed their alumni back for drinks and conversation, maintaining the valuable
ties and relationships that extend beyond the four years spent as a student. Between these events and more classy affairs
held under white tents on locations across campus, alumni were certainly here with cause, having been invited and welcomed back.

These alumni were, it seemed, everywhere. Dorm hallways, the court, the Union—you name it; this campus devoted itself to celebrating
graduated and current Davidson students. Students and alumni alike, in turn, celebrated perhaps a bit too hard. We saw a
man passed out in front of Commons who, while not verifiably an alum, was certainly not a student. Another staff
member witnessed a small child drinking a beer in a fraternity’s inflatable pool on their back porch. Some alumni even
tried to prove they’ve “still got it” by hitting on current students. Our advice is to enjoy your time while
you’re here. Not every weekend can be Spring Frolics, but it’s important to take time out and visit Lake Campus
during the beautiful weather.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl

Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Katherine Miller

News Editors
Kate Kelly & Nina Mace

Perspectives Editors
Laura Van Oudenaren & Matt Petit

Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Errington & Caroline Wood

Yowl Editors
James Boswell & Alex Hoyt

Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Patrick McArdle

Photography Editor
Ben Ellinor

Copy Editor
Gretchen Hoffman

Business, Advertising and Circulation Managers
Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Jamie Hofmeister

The Davidsonian is published by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The
Davidsonian, P.O. Box 718, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. Phone (704) 894-2148. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of
the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held
by the Trustees of Davidson College.

---

Diplomacy crucial in dealing with foes

There’s been a lot of talk on The Davidsonian’s pages about how the United States should deal with some of
the most contentious and tricky situations in the world. On the one hand, we have authors who must wear paths
in their keyboards typing the word “terrorist”—a term that can refer to anyone from Ahmadinejad to Osama to Jimmy Carter.
On the other, we’ve seen articles that espouse a more insular, isolated foreign policy in the world’s hotspots. It’s true.
Dealing with this country’s enemies has never been easy. The United States has tried out many different policies, as variegated
as espionage, obliteration bombing, and even sacrifice. And while many ideas and opinions have come to the table, one among
them has rung the most hollow: disengagement. This approach can make its way into policy under the guise of both
liberal and conservative agendas. But the fact stands that leaving the world to solve its own problems or deliberately turning
the nation’s back to an enemy out of principle is an ignorant approach to policy. No matter how despicable the
enemy, they must be dealt with, and not just with a mixture of guns and silence. That’s right. We have
to talk to groups like Hamas, nations like Iran and people like Moqtada al-Sadr. It is unfortunate that many still
believe that conducting all-level diplomacy with negative elements like terrorist organizations “legitimizes” them. Let’s be clear on this: once a
terrorist group kills its first innocent civilian, it has become sufficiently legitimate. The myth that America does not engage in
talks with its enemies is absolutely absurd. Think back to the “red phone” connecting the White House to the Kremlin
during the Cold War. The Soviet Union had the capacity to destroy the world many times over, yet we remained
in constant dialogue. Or go back to Somalia in 1993. The minute we stopped having tea with General Aideed and
began hunting him down, we began to lose Somalia. So whether we’re talking about Iraq, Iran, Hamas or North Korea,
silence should never be an option. The strongest tool in our nation’s arsenal is not our strategy, our military technology
or even our economy—it’s our mouths and our ears. Diplomacy entails some of the most excruciating sacrifices in the most
difficult situations.Reason conflicts remain hot on the ground yet frozen at the table is because neither side is willing to
compromise. Our current, and likely future, position as the world’s most powerful state does not exempt us from sacrifice. In
many cases, the more asymmetrically powerful the state, the further it must reach in order to strike a deal. Surely
there will be some cries of “appeasement” right about now. Of course, diplomacy can be conducted clumsily. But for every
Munich 1938 or Versailles 1919, there’s a Dresden or a Vietnam. Just because a policy is fallible does not mean
it should not be pursued. When it comes to the choice between massive casualties and massive conciliation, however, there is
a clear answer. Giving Iran the cold shoulder, then threatening nuclear attack, plays right into its leadership’s hands. Dealing only
with a notoriously headstrong Israel and an anemic Fatah leaves Hamas to consolidate control among Gaza’s growing number of disaffected
people.

Matt Petit

No matter how despicable the enemy, they must be dealt with, and not with a mixture of guns and silence.
Let Carter talk to Hamas. What further harm can he do? Unless, of course, the Camp David Accords can be
considered harmful, he’s had a decent track record with dealing with belligerents. Yes, let’s talk with Iran about its nuclear
program. Threatening massive destruction only solidifies and confirms its leaders’ rhetoric. Yes, let’s invite al-Sadr to the table in Iraq
and engage with all sides in the conflict to forge a political solution. Keeping one or many out in the
cold or simply dropping the country will only make things worse for men and women in Iraq. Foreign policy is
not a matter of sticks and silence. In order to achieve anything, and with the least loss of life, we
must negotiate, argue and, yes, even make concessions. Even our worst enemies (and there seem to be many) deserve our
ear. So much more is put at risk by our silence.

Matt Petit ’08 is a Political Science and Music major from Seminole, Fla. Contact him at mapetit@davidson.edu

Bad day? Don’t blame it on Davidson

JULIA EDWARDS

If you ever find yourself in an awkward silence, just ask someone what work they have for the week. You
will be guaranteed at least 10 minutes of dialogue. The Davidson workload and the stress it causes are blamed for
all that is evil on our campus. Apparently, our social isolation, our awkward personalities, our binge drinking habits, and our
eating disorders are all directly the result of the enormous stress we shoulder. If it is true that stress inevitably
causes all of these things, I fear for our nation’s CEOs, doctors, and other highly stressed professionals who must all
be coming to work hungover, agonizing over their body image, and returning home to empty houses because they have forgotten
how to interact with other human beings.

The Davidson workload and the stress it causes are blamed for all that is evil on our campus. As a
staff writer for The Davidsonian (and as a person on this campus), I constantly hear my friends and fellow students
complain, beginning with the phrase “Well at Davidson...” Over the past two years, countless students have told me of their
plans to write a Perspectives piece where they can really tell the school what’s wrong with it. I have covered
forums where students and faculty sit down to address the (fill in the blank) problem on Davidson campus. And, apart
from being a writer, I have been bombarded with fliers and e-mails asking me if I am coping with my
workload, readjusting to coming back from abroad, and maintaining healthy eating habits. I am not complaining about complaining. In fact,
I feel that creating so many opportunities to evaluate ourselves and talk often we blame our problems on the school
and an environment we can’t change rather than taking the initiative to make the change ourselves.

The complaints range greatly. “We are too homogeneous and conservative.” “Everyone here is liberal and weird.” “We have a binge
drinking problem.” “People here don’t party enough.” “This would never happen at Middlebury.” “This would never happen at UNC.” “Guys
here suck.” “Girls here suck.” Maybe it’s the “Davidson student in me” that wants to fix everything, but I do
have some advice. If you are unhappy with your social group, actively seek out students who are different (or the
same) as you are. If you are unhappy with the social scene, find a group of people to get out
of town with and go to a concert, bar, or beach for the weekend; or, better yet, plan a social
function on campus. If you are unhappy with the dating scene, try getting to know potential partners before shrugging them
off as uninterested or undatable.

One thing everyone can agree to complain about is the workload. I do not deny the fact that social dissatisfaction
and unhealthy habits associated with stress exist on Davidson’s campus. But they also exist in our generation of college students
as a whole and are not completely the fault of our school. We have more ways to get involved than
humanly possible. Can’t find anything that interests you? Start your own organization. We have a social system that allows students
to drink safely without having to drive home. We hold daily discussions on every topic imaginable. We have a Board
of Trustees that is willing to pay for much of the student body to experience the NCAA tournament in Detroit.
In all, I'd say it’s a pretty great day to be a wildcat...

Julia Edwards ’09 is a Psychology major from Raleigh, N.C. Contact her at juedwards@davidson.edu.
