THE DAVIDSONIAN

Fielder honors media

CLINT SMITH
Staff Writer

Renowned Ancient Greek statesman Pericles once stated, “What you leave behind is not what is engraved in stone, but what
is woven into the lives of others.” And if there was one quotation that captured the essence of James K.
Batten’s life and legacy, that was it. This year’s “James K. Batten Professor of Public Policy,” Virginia Dodge Fielder, delivered
the 2008 Batten lecture on Monday night in Hance Auditorium. The lecture both celebrated the life of the late James
K. Batten ’57 and also focused on the future of the media industry as a whole.

In a room of students, professors, and old friends of Batten, Fielder began by enlightening the crowd to the journalist’s
numerous and illustrious career achievements. As a student at Davidson College, Batten quickly rose through the ranks of The Davidsonian,
eventually becoming its editor-in-chief. From there, he went on to work directly for the Charlotte Observer as a Washington correspondent
who focused particularly on issues dealing with the civil rights movement. While Batten temporarily left Mecklenburg County to become an
editor at the Detroit Free Press, he soon returned to the Charlotte Observer as its executive editor. But that was
not the end of the road for Batten. He went on to become chairman and CEO of one of the
nation’s largest and most successful media conglomerates, Knight-Ridder.

Batten won countless awards for his journalistic work over the course of his career, including the George Polk Memorial Award
for regional reporting in 1968 and the William Allen White Foundation National Citation of Journalistic Merit and Mass Communications in
1990. During his career, “Jim,” as his colleagues affectionately called him, became one of the biggest proponents of what came
to be known as “public” or “civic” journalism. Public journalism supports the notion that newspapers and other media outlets are
meant to encourage civic engagement by urging people to speak out regarding important social and political issues occurring in their
communities. In doing so, the powers-that-be would be forced to come up with a solution that would reflect public opinion.

“Jim believed that newspapers should treat people as ‘citizens’ before ‘customers,’” Fielder said. “The paper had a responsibility to engage
the community both socially and politically.” Fielder claimed that Batten would have been ecstatic about the vast political interest that
the recent election produced, especially with regards to the unprecedented grassroots movement generated by the young. “He would be so
proud to see so many students being so outspoken both on campus and in the community,” she said.

Proclaiming Batten as an advocate of diversity and social equality, she also stated that the renowned editor would be “so
proud” that 65 million Americans voted for an African-American Presidential candidate; something that was seemingly unfathomable during Batten’s lifetime. Fielder
also praised Batten as someone who was preparing for the inception of journalism’s technological age before many in the media
industry were even thinking about it. She said that while some journalists have declared that the onset of online news
sites will lead to the end of print journalism, Batten would have believed and focused on what he would consider
a more important shift than that.

“Jim wouldn’t be surprised or upset by the move from the newspaper to the web,” she said. “Instead, he would
be encouraged by the increased civic engagement that the Internet has brought about.” After going on to speak more about
Batten’s professional success, Fielder shifted gears a bit and began to discuss how outside of all of his career achievements,
Batten was the embodiment of the prototypical “southern gentleman.” She said that when she was suffering from illness, he was
always ather side doing anything he could to help. When Batten fell victim to a malignant brain tumor, she said,
he never complained or let his family see him suffer. After Fielder completed her lecture, she went around the room
and asked people who had fond memories of Batten to share them with the rest of the audience. “He just
loved people,” said one woman who recounted working with Batten. “The best thing about him was that Jim helped people
to discover the best of themselves.”

1/11/08 - 3:18 p.m. Suspicious Basketball Fan 200 Baker Drive

On Tuesday, November 11, 2008, at 1518 hrs, Officer Heinz received a call on the officer cell phone in reference
to a suspicious person at Baker Sports, 200 Baker Dr. The cell phone call advised the male subject asked about
having basketball memorabilia autographed. The cell phone caller advised the subject was driving a silver SUV. The reporting officer observed
a silver 1998 Lincoln Navigator parked near the Knobloch Campus Center, 207 Faculty Dr. The reporting officer found the owner
of the vehicle inside the Campus Bookstore. The reporting officer advised the man of Davidson College policy and that he
could not walk or drive the campus looking for basketball players to autograph items. The individual complied with the investigation
and agreed he would not.

11/12/08 - 7:19 p.m. Unattended Computers Little Library

On Wednesday, November 12, 2008, Officer Heinz conducted foot patrol in and around the following: Little Library between 1919 hrs
and 1950 hrs. During these times, the officer did not observe any suspicious activity or damage to property. The reporting
officer did notice five unattended laptop computers and an iPod. The locations and descriptions are as follows:
- Basement, Group Study room #G-32, one white iMac
- First floor common table, one silver iMac, one white iPod, one grey Dell, and one black laptop with a
book placed on top of it.
- Second floor Group Study room #209, one silver Dell

11/14/08 - 9:30 a.m. Mysterious Sidewalk Chalk Watson Science Building

On Friday at 0930 hrs, Capt. R.L. Hersey was advised by Stacey Hill, administrative assistant, that Irvin Brawley, Physical Plant,
had called and reported some drawings on the sidewalks at Watson Life Science building. The reporting officer responded and found
a red circle drawn with chalk on the sidewalk at the east end arch between Watson and Dana buildings with
the State Farm Insurance Company logo “We Are There.” Another one was drawn at the front entrance to Watson Life
Science on the concrete. Photos were taken and the Physical Plant was contacted in reference to having the walk cleaned.

11/16/08 PKA House Trash Can 5:41 p.m. Strange Smoke

On Sunday, November 16, 2008, at 1741 hrs, Sgt. Tim Ramsey observed smoke coming from a trashcan located next to
the walkway at PKA house. The reporting officer advised dispatch to contact Davidson Fire Department. Upon arrival, the fire department
determined hot embers caused the smoke. It appeared the embers were from a charcoal grill. Davidson Fire extinguished the hot
embers with water then cleared the scene.

“While this will certainly hurt the plan's progress, the commuter train itself, if and when it comes, could almost benefit
from economic downturns like the current one,” Krider said. “Mass transit funding comes from the state and twenty-five to thirty
percent from federal transportation. When money is tight, people will theoretically turn to mass transit, which means federal funding for
the project. However, the towns are still looking to the federal government for money, especially with the imminent inauguration of
President-elect Obama, who is expected to be more supportive of mass transit than President Bush has been. The towns are
hoping that more funding for the city of Charlotte will be available. It is better to fund the northern line
to Davidson, as it will actually benefit from the arenas for the tracks. According to Krider, the recent entrance to
the campus, with the train station, Levine argues that Main, Depot, and Jac...”
