DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Steve Rossiter '10 and Elinor Landess '10 named Homecoming King and Queen during festivities. 
see NEWS, page 3

BEN IRELAND: THE ART OF THE REMIX
Ireland ’12 to showcase unique style at upcoming Live Thursdays event.
see ARTS, page 6

PEELE RECEIVES HONORS AT WILDCAT CLASSIC
Peele ’11 named “all-tournament” despite ’Cats Volleyball losing 3 matches.
see SPORTS, page 11

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009

Composting program continues to expand
BRENNA KELLY
Staff Writer

If you’ve been to the Union lately, you will have noticed the array of additional trashcans surrounding the café level. These new receptacles are not to be mistaken as extra space for your everyday trash, however. They are part of the Davidson Composting Project, a program that began last year when Davidson purchased a “Green Drum” commercial composter and built an on-site compost facility.

“The project was inspired by a class on food and culture taught by Fuji Lozada in the spring of 2008,” said Galen King ’10, one of the students involved with the project. “The class had a service learning component where students were divided into groups and worked for half of the semester on different projects,” Katie Epstein ’10 said. “One of these groups worked with Dee Phillips [Director of Dining Services] to develop a plan for composting.”

The primary students in this Anthropology 267—Food and Culture class who were involved in initiating the composting project at Davidson were Minh Nguyen ’09, Alicyn Isaaclowry ’08, Alex Gregor ’09, Chris Beeston ’08, Josh Hamlet ’10, and Karen Hasty ’10.

So, what is composting? To put it simply, composting is the blending of certain organic wastes, such as food or yard waste, to form compost, which is an organic material that is used as a means to improve soil and cultivate plants — essentially, fertilizer. The goal for composting at Davidson is to reduce the amount of organic waste on campus (mostly food) that the college ultimately has to put in landfills. By combining wastes and converting them into a fertilizer, pollution and excess waste are reduced, and Physical Plant has a new environmental way to fertilize the grounds of Davidson.

“It’s recycling in the most accurate sense of the word,” Epstein said. “It’s a complete circle, which is more than you can usually say for plastic bottles and cans. Plus, the college needs to buy compost every year to maintain the grounds. With our new composter, the college is saving money by creating the compost it would otherwise have to outsource.”

Although Davidson only started this composting program midway through last semester, the campus has already seen positive results. “So far the composter has been hugely successful,” Epstein said. The number of garbage truck pickups on campus has already decreased from three times a week to two, and Commons’ dumpster trash has been reduced by over half. Presently, only Commons and the Union are contributing to the composter due to the amount of waste the composter can process. However, King assures students that “there are pilot programs in motion that will assess the potential of other places on campus being a part of composting as well.”

Common items suitable for composting include cardboard rolls, paper, dryer and vacuum cleaner lint, coffee grounds and filters, eggshells, houseplants, and teabags. Union Cafe manager Michael Henshaw also explained that at the

www.thedavidsonian.com
VOLUME 101, NUMBER 3

photo by Bill Giduz
EcoHouse members buildTwo compost bins next to their new vegetable garden. Union Cafe, compostable items include utensils, napkins, cups, and plates. Many of these items are made of corn starch, which adds to the sustainability aspect of the Union’s programs. “It’s a credit to Davidson students and their desire to create positive change that this composter is here today,” Epstein said.

Roosevelt Institute brings think-tank to campus
Kelly Wilson
Staff Writer

Student researchers who want to contribute their talents to benefit the community through service now have the opportunity to do so. This year, Davidson welcomes its chapter of The Roosevelt Institution, a non-profit, non-partisan national student think-tank based in Washington D.C. The organization was founded five years ago and boasts chapters at nearly 80 colleges and universities around the country. Members carry out policy research on important regional and local political issues, including defense and diplomacy, energy and environment, economic development, health care, equal justice, and education.

Nick Carney ’11 and Matt De Niear ’11 started Davidson’s chapter last semester, but because both are abroad this semester, John Morgan ’12 and co-president Iain Addleton ’12 are now responsible for the organization. Davidson’s chapter of The Roosevelt Institution is chartered under United Community Action (UCA) because of its focus on service and local community issues.

“Davidson is already an incredibly active campus, a national leader in community service and activism,” Morgan said. “What we hope to do is fill a void in student ideas behind all that service, where we take ownership of our projects in the community with our own proposals. There’s so much energy on this campus and in this community as a whole that I anticipate a truly integrated effort from Roosevelt here.”

“We can pool together so many talents, combining both the academic and service-oriented resources at Davidson,” Morgan continued. “In the larger area, I look forward to the opportunity for working with leaders and policymakers to bend regional initiatives in a progressive light.”

Why not just let the professionals do this? “Davidson kids, for one, provide a unique perspective to community issues here, since we come from so many different backgrounds,” Morgan said. “We've all seen different ways of doing things at a community level. When it comes to writing tomes of legislation, let the folks do it who get paid for it. When it comes to local, service-oriented policy, we can find a special niche. We can get on the ground and connect with folks in ways the paid professionals in Washington, or in Charlotte, can’t quite do the same.”

Throughout this first semester, the chapter hopes to establish a presence on campus and “build relationships with community leaders and organizations,” Morgan said. “Ideally, we'd like to get through at least one policy memo that centers on Davidson’s involvement with the community — maybe even something that’s already going on with student groups.”

At the Roosevelt Institution’s first meeting last week, student leaders emphasized that because this is the chapter’s first year on campus, members will have the opportunity to decide the direction of the organization and make a strong impact. The chapter’s organizational structure is concentric, meaning that a core group of members will pick one issue to focus on and then branch out into the community to involve people at varying degrees through event planning, research, writing policy briefs, or activism. Students interested in getting involved or reading more about the Institute can visit rooseveltcampusnetwork.org.