14 THE AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL ISSUE WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29, 2009

CRIER CLASSIFIEDS REMOVED DUE TO CRAIGSLIST KILLER SEE PAGE 3

Tom Ross LEGALLY CHANGES NAME TO T-Boss SEE PAGE 4

Watch Your Mouth

Booze and schmooze > wine and dine

Amanda Ottaway

Amanda Ottaway came halfway into the world at lunchtime on December 14, 1989, in a bowling alley in West Virginia.
(Her shoulder got stuck — we will avoid too much detail here — and dislocated, hence the “halfway”). Her childhood
consisted of pouting, crying, and throwing fits while her mother proceeded to give birth to fourteen more children, all boys.
Growing up in a household of seventeen was far from easy — for example, the entire family shared a loofah
in the shower, an experience that has traumatized Ottaway for many years.

However oppressed she may have been, she was able to achieve at least one act of greatness — at age
ten, she was inducted into the Guinness Book of World Records for the most consecutive hiccups, with a breathtaking (no
pun intended) 395,495,298,098,948,920,928,290. Currently, Ottaway attends Davidson College and carries an impressive 4.99 GPA. She is captain of the gymnastics
team, head of the Mathletes, and enjoys Facebook stalking, collecting roadkill and chewed gum, and drinking copious amounts of Nyquil
in her spare time. She is seeing a psychologist eight times a week for treatment of her loofah-induced PTSD and
resulting ablutophobia (fear of washing or bathing). Her roommate of two years, after trying in vain to get Ottaway to
shower, finally jumped out of their sixth-story window to avoid the stench. Ottaway was forced to see a second psychologist
concerning her guilt over her roommate’s permanently being stuck in an enormous wad of gum that was on the sidewalk
at the time of the jump.

STAR WARS CLUB CRUSHED OVER FROLICS DROID/RJD2 MIX-UP SEE PAGE 5

CRITICS AGREE: SWINE FLU FILTHIEST DISEASE IN HISTORY SEE PAGE 4

ATHLETE DOMINATES GREEK WEEK, BLOWS REGULAR SEASON SEE PAGE 4

Brett Chikowski

Brett Chikowski began contributing to The Yowl at the young age of 18. Amazingly, he worked his way up and
was promoted to staff writer after only a year, becoming the 346th youngest staff writer for The Yowl. He hails
from northern California and always tries to work the word “hella” into his articles but it always gets cut out
by full-time editor Gary Busey. Brett thinks he’s particularly clever when it comes to writing about things that happen on
Davidson campus. He makes astute observations that go unnoticed by ordinary muggles (Brett is so clever he can make Harry
Potter references at will). Some of his more insightful observations include:

- People hook up when they go to Patterson Court
- Girls wear big sunglasses
- Some fraternities cannot tell the difference between the letters ‘c’ and ‘k’.

When he’s not in the Union taking notes on Davidson life, Brett likes to spend his time perusing the Internet
and working out excessively at the gym. And by working out at the gym, Brett means playing Call of Duty
4 on Xbox 360 and straight pwning n00bs. That’s not to say Brett isn’t extremely athletic and muscularly toned to
perfection. He has two championship rings in intramural 3 on 3 basketball as player/coach and one finals appearance in intramural
5 on 5 soccer. If you have any Yowl ideas that Brett can take credit for, please e-mail them to
Brchikowski@davidson.edu. Brett also enjoys...Writing in the third person.

OF THE WEEK SEARCH: **LIKE A BOSS**

THE YOWL

Your Davidson Honor

Section Editors: Alex Greening

Echo & the Bunnymen

Writers: Peter Bruton | Brett Chikowski | Amanda Ottaway

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

ORTA UBERTAS

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

April 29, 2009

The Yowl Special Edition: “Meet the Staff”

Alex Greening

Alex Greening was hatched to loving parents on November 16, 1987. Unfortunately, Alex’s parents were tragically killed in a sweatshop
fire and the young boy spent most of his childhood in various foster homes. Greening’s genius went largely unnoticed during
his youth as his affinity for poop jokes was much more distracting. Nonetheless, two of his 5th grade creative writing
assignments were adapted into wildly popular films: Con Air, starring John Malkovich, John Cusack, and Nicholas Cage; and the Shaquille
O’Neal star vehicle Kazaam! Greening was forced to drop out of homeschool after a pregnancy scare with longtime girlfriend Paula
Dean. Realizing many of his problems arose from his extraordinary success, Greening devoted himself to a life of disappointment. Upon
entering high school, Greening quickly bonded with philosopher, mentor, and general maniac Gary Busey of Point Break fame. Out of
concern for his young progeny, Busey tried to convince Greening to renounce his life of mediocrity. Alex Greening ignored him
because Busey is crazy. Greening’s life at Davidson College has been an exercise in self-restraint. Ever since the Chicken Parm
Incident in his W-course freshman year, Greening has sat quietly in his classes and keeps spare condoms with him at
all times. On weekends he prefers to spend time at the rooster farm he illegally constructed on the cross-country trails.
Greening considers his editor’s post at the Yowl “the pinnacle of mediocrity” and is confident that “the Yowl will continue
to be ignored in favor of the spice and flavor of the rest of the Davidsonian. It is, in fact,
the South’s foremost college weekly.”

Brutang Clan

Peter Bruton was born twenty glorious years ago and has been dominating ever since. Years ahead of his time, Bruton
pioneered the “that’s what she said” jokes in sixth grade but many of his classmates did not understand these witty
references and deemed him creepy. Bruton took up the inferior sport of running to try and fit in somewhere but
even the cross-country nerds thought his humor was stupid and he wasn’t even a good runner. When Bruton arrived at
Davidson, the great Alex Hoyt saw potential in the young ginger. After a two-year apprenticeship, Hoyt passed the torch to
Bruton this semester and he joined the Yowl. Bruton’s entrance into the brotherhood of the Yowl is nothing to be
taken lightly. Similar to the Priory of Sion, the Yowl staff upholds a secret and ancient oath to waste as
much time and money as possible. This would prove to be a pivotal moment for the carrot top. The quintessential
“that guy,” you probably would recognize Peter but have no idea who he actually is. You may have seen Peter
running on the cross-country trails or loitering in the library. The coaches of the Southern Conference awarded him with the
prestigious “Best Hair” award for the 2008-2009 academic year (Really. They did). His golden and auburn locks could not be
denied this award. Bruton is easily the lankiest member of the Davidsonian staff and thinks he has a lot of
friends. BOSS.
