THE DAVIDSONIAN

Clem Butler ’12 makes tackles Lenoir-Rhyne running back James Pone during Saturday’s homecoming game. Butler finished the game with three
tackles.

’Cats fall to Bears in home opener
Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

The Davidson football team’s early struggles continued at Homecoming last Saturday as the Wildcats suffered a 42-0 setback against the
Lenoir-Rhyne Bears. The Bears ran for 370 yards out of their triple-option offense and put up 413 yards total against
a defense that has given up fourteen touchdowns in two games. Andrew Courman led the way with 140 rushing yards,
including a 95-yard run that gave Lenoir-Rhyne a 28-0 lead with 7:03 remaining in the third quarter. Byron Darby finished
with five rushes for 92 yards, including a 77-yard scamper on the first play of the third quarter to give
the Bears a 21-0 lead.

The Wildcat defense played relatively solidly in the first half, only surrendering points when given a short field by the
offense. Michael Blanchard ’11 threw an interception on the first play from scrimmage, setting up a 41-yard drive that ended
with Antwain Ross’ nine-yard carry for a touchdown with just over three minutes gone in the game. The Bears drove
25 yards for a score after Dewayne Jones recovered a fumble by Justin Williams ’11. The drive was capped by
a two-yard run by Justin Sanders.

Lenoir-Rhyne added to its margin in the fourth quarter. Doug Ellis blocked an Andrew Wohler ’11 punt, giving the Bears
the ball on the Wildcat two-yard line. Le’Quan McCorkle ran in on the next play. The final touchdown came when
Brandon Brown forced Blanchard to fumble on a sack, allowing Mike Harold to recover the fumble and run it in
from two yards out.

Blanchard finished with 190 yards on 13-31 passing with three interceptions. Andrew Aldrich ’10 was his favorite target, hauling in
four passes for 70 yards. Jonathan Adams ’12 added three catches for 48 yards. Kenny Mantuo ’11 led the Wildcat
ground game with 83 yards on 43 carries. The Davidson defense was led by Will Pickens ’10 with 10 tackles
and Tyler Lemons ’10 who had nine tackles and a sack.

The Wildcats were plagued throughout the day by poor field position. No Davidson possession started closer than the Wildcat 34,
and 11 of the 14 Davidson drives started inside their own 30. The Wildcats had only one possession of over
31 yards, a 76-yard march spanning the end of the third and beginning of the fourth quarters. Mantuo rushed three
times for 70 yards on the drive, which ended when back-up quarterback Matt Heavner ’12 was sacked at the Lenoir-Rhyne
17 on fourth down.

Five turnovers (three interceptions and two lost fumbles) combined to hamstring an offense that otherwise produced 313 total yards. The
Wildcats ran fifteen more plays than the Bears and had nearly as many first downs, but the field position discrepancy
(aided by four Bear punts that landed inside the 20) helped to ensure that the Wildcats would remain scoreless thus
far in the 2009 season.

“Turnovers absolutely killed us today,” Davidson head coach Tripp Merritt said. “They put our defense into tough spots, and they
got tired and didn’t tackle well in the second half.”

If there is any consolation for the Wildcats, it is in their next opponent, the Campbell Camels. The Camels will
come to Richardson Stadium next Saturday at 6 p.m. to begin the Pioneer Football League season. The Wildcats demolished the
Camels 49-0 last year, rolling up 516 yards of total offense. Blanchard also scored his first career touchdown in that
game on a three-yard run in the fourth quarter.

Football (0-2)
Results:
9/12 vs. Lenoir-Rhyne L 0-42
Next Up:
9/19 vs. Campbell
Notes: The Wildcats open up Pioneer league play when they host Campbell on Saturday night.

Field Hockey (2-4)
Results:
9/12 vs. #17 Indiana L 1-6
9/13 vs. Coastal Carolina L 1-3
Next Up:
9/18 @ Appalachian State
9/20 @ #3 Wake Forest
Notes: Jennie Mostellar ’11 scored the ’Cats lone goal in Saturday’s 6-1 loss to nationally-ranked Indiana.

Men’s Soccer (2-1)
Results:
9/11 vs. UNC-Asheville W 2-0
Next Up:
9/16 @ Radford
9/19 @ Presbyterian
Notes: Charlie Reiter ’10 and Alex Caskey ’11 were named to the Davidson adidas Classic all-tournament team as the ’Cats
split a pair of games.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009

Freshmen QB’s come of age
Logan Lewis
Sports Section Editor

It is just the second week of the 2009 college football season, but certain freshmen are already rising to the
occasion on the grandest of stages. Many players from around the country come into elite programs with loads of hype
and expectations swirling about them. No players had greater levels of pressure upon their youthful shoulders than did...Quarterbacks Tate Forcier
of Michigan or Matt Barkley of the University of Southern California. This Saturday they burst onto the college football scene
with poised performances en route to victory. Forcier suited up first in his afternoon matchup against Jimmy Clausen’s Notre Dame
Fighting Irish in Michigan Stadium, affectionately known as the “Big House” by those who bleed maize and blue. The nickname
is no jest as the stadium was packed with more than 100,000 screaming fans. With Notre Dame carrying a number
18 in both polls, the unranked Michigan Wolverines were not expected to escape this rivalry game with a victory. Forcier
didn’t get the memo. He lifted his team onto his back and propelled them to victory, completing 23 of 33
passes for 240 yards and two touchdowns while also rushing for one. Forcier gave Michigan its biggest lead of the
day with 14:16 remaining in the fourth quarter. On a fourth down and three yards to go, he took the
shotgun snap and scampered 31 yards for a touchdown, making the Michigan lead 31-20.

Preston Eldridge ’10 makes a catch during the Wildcats’ loss to Lenoir-Rhyne.

The Irish did not go quietly, however, and fought their way back, regaining the lead 34-31. Now, it was Forcier’s
chance to write his name in the lore of the Notre Dame/Michigan rivalry. Michigan took over possession of the ball
at its own 43-yard line with 2:13 left in the game with two timeouts. He proceeded to orchestrate a masterful
drive of six completions, culminating with a five-yard completion to Greg Matthews for the game-winning touchdown in the Wolverines’ 38-34
win with just 0:11 remaining.

Less than an hour after the conclusion of Forcier’s performance, Matt Barkley stepped onto literally the biggest stage in the
history of Ohio Stadium. “The Horseshoe” was packed with a record crowd of more than 106,000 people in No. 3
USC’s battle against No. 8 Ohio State University. This game was certain to be an exciting battle, as two titans
of the college football world collided on a gorgeous night in Columbus, Ohio. While the game was low-scoring, the stage
was set for a game-winning drive. This one lay in the hands of young Southern California native Matt Barkley who
turned 19 just the previous Tuesday. With only one game under his belt, the hyped youngster kept his composure throughout
the night, playing it cool under pressure.

With the score 15-10 in Ohio State’s favor, USC took the field on offense with 7:29 remaining in the game.
The USC offense methodically matriculated the ball down the field over a span of 6:10 which included 14 plays and
covered 86 yards. The drive ended in victory for the Trojans as Stafon Johnson ran two yards around the Buckeye
defense for his second score of the game with just over a minute left, giving USC the lead 18-15. During
the drive, Barkley kept a cool head, completing three passes and rushing for a crucial first down on one occasion.
At one point, the Trojans were backed up to their own five-yard line, but two big plays saved USC from
peril. A rush by Joe McKnight followed by a Barkley connection to McKnight as a receiver out of the backfield
helped USC make its way out of trouble. While the numbers for Barkley are not that impressive, he completed just
15 of his 31 passes for 195 yards and threw for one interception with no touchdowns, he utilized his skills
as a game manager to engineer a long drive in a hostile atmosphere when it mattered most.

Saturday was a great day for college football. Two young men, mere teenagers, exceeded my expectations and announced themselves as
gladiators in college football’s most celebrated arenas. Now I wonder who will be the next to make a name for
himself in a critical moment in front of thousands or even millions of viewers. That’s why I will be watching
this weekend and every weekend that remains during this wonderful season of the year, and I encourage you to do
the same.

Women’s Soccer (3-4)
Results:
9/10 vs. Charlotte L 0-2
9/13 @ High Point W 1-0
Next Up:
9/18 @ Winthrop
9/20 @ Virginia Tech

Volleyball (2-8)
Results:
9/11 vs. UNCW L 0-3
9/12 vs. Radford L 2-3
9/12 vs. Canisius L 1-3
Next Up:
9/18 @ Richmond
9/19 vs. James Madison
9/19 vs. Gardner-Webb
Notes: Sarabeth Peele ’11 earned all-tournament honors for her play in the Wildcat Classic.

Men’s and Women’s Cross Country
Results:
“Off”
Next Up:
9/19 Winthrop Invitational
Notes: Lance Harden ’09 was named SoCon Men’s Runner of the Week for his 2nd place finish in the season-opening
Eye Opener at USC-Upstate two weeks ago.
