ARROGANT STUDENTS LOBBY FOR OFF-CAMPUS “EGO House” SEE PAGE 8

FAKE SENATE ELECTIONS MAKE STUDENTS HATE THE CANDIDATES SEE PAGE 3

FREE SPEECH BOARD TAKEN SERIOUSLY FOR RECORD 13 MINUTES SEE PAGE 6

POLICE BLOTTER CONTAINS USELESS INFORMATION SEE PAGE 4

OF THE WEEK SEARCH: ““HoBOo REPORT CARD”?

THE YOWL
Your Davidson Honor Section

Editor: Alex Greening
Writers: Brian Park

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

THE OVERWORKED ISSUE

Life Is Too Short

Michael Vick Returns from Prison “A Changed Man”

Philadelphia—Philadelphia Eagles quarterback returned to NFL play against the Kansas City Chiefs after spending 18 months in federal prison for
running dogfights. “Prison changes a man. As a haven away from the hustle and bustle of everyday life, it was
a place for me to re-evaluate my goals and behavior,” Vick said. “As a professional athlete, I deal with a
lot of stress and pressure. In prison that stress isn’t there. Everyone’s so welcoming and helpful, guiding each other to
become better, fuller humans.”

Vick praised the efficiency and fairness of the American legal system and also lauded the federal penitentiary department. “In prison,
that stress... isn't there. Everyone’s so welcoming, guiding each other to become better humans.”

“It’s great. They treat you politely, and the facilities at the prisons are top-notch! Frankly speaking, the gym at the
prison is better than anything I’ve encountered in the state of Pennsylvania.”

Ricky “Rusty Shank” Marquez, Vick’s roommate during his stay at Leavenworth Penitentiary, says he enjoyed Vick’s company. “He’s a genuinely
good guy,” Marquez said. “We all get caught up in a bad activity every once in a while...selling drugs to
13-year-olds, stabbing your uncle to death with a box cutter...prison is about sharing experiences and trying to grow closer as
a community of convicts.”

Vick has renounced his dog-fighting ways. In an interview Monday, Vick mentioned that he no longer wishes to starve pit
bulls and German shepherds for days, so that they will kill each other over a piece of chicken gristle. “It’s
unfair to the animals, it really is,” he said.

Vick plans on converting the extensive kennel compound he constructed to a more peaceful purpose. “Vick’s Veterinary Center” will be
opening in the fall of 2010. “We have this amazing facility, and we should put it to good use,” said
Dolla Bill, who used to convert Vick’s pets into bloodthirsty killing machines.

Banjo, a stray, is excited to join Vick’s new canine outreach program. “The cages are kind of small, but they
should work fine for lapdogs such as Pomeranians and Chihuahuas. And the fight pit already has grates built in so
that blood can drain out. It will be the perfect spot for a pet washing station!”

The animals that are currently in Vick’s care, however, see the issue differently. When “Number 12,” Vick’s prized pit bull,
was approached about the new program, his eyes turned red and he tore the throat out of a reporter. Experts
worry that the dogs he abused will remain aggressive. Public opinion, though, has turned unilaterally in Vick’s favor. After his
arrest in2007, violent crime and animal-cruelty rates plummeted. Vick explains to the press that he is the “#1 Dog Lover”
in the world. “Michael Vick single-handedly stopped dozens, if not hundreds, of crimes from occurring simply by stopping committing them
himself. He is, I dare say, one of our city’s finest crime-fighters,” a spokesperson for the Philadelphia Police Department said.
Michael Vick is being considered for a vast array of civic awards thanks to his reduction of Vick-committed crimes. He
is excited about the current football season, but is also excited for his upcoming vacation: “I’m bringing my guns to
Africa and getting my own ivory,” Vick said, grinning.

Delicious Chick-fil-A: % *, Chick-fil-A know what I can use to tempt you, Major: Classics

Reasons people choose this major: Interest in the Mediterranean; H.S. diploma from an intense Catholic/Latin boarding school; Insufferable pretension.

Where they study abroad: In the most obnoxious and unapologetic group ever; They enjoy annoying the everloving shit out of
anyone who lives near a museum in “The Med.”

Career options: Professor, high school teacher, librarian, Hardee’s franchise owner.

Why people avoid this major: They would rather do something productive with their time.

Make Your Own Cardboard Box with free Chick-fil-A

Have you ever been in your room and suddenly thought, “I could really use a box”? This Friday you can
finally stop asking yourself that question because the Union Board will be having “Make Your Own Box Day!” Participants are
limited to two boxes per student. Worried that a brown box won't add enough sass to your room? Fear not
since there will be black and white paint! Make those boxes while enjoying free Chick-fil-A.

Join us at the Union this Friday with your friends to rip those pesky sleeves off your shirt. If you
have ever wanted to look like an inbred waste of space, a shirt with ripped-off sleeves is an absolute imperative.
Those sleeves simply cannot be cut off, they must be ripped off! While irreparably damaging your own clothes, think of
that person out of soap. The next time your special someone cheats on you or someone cuts in line at
Commons’ chicken parm night, whip out your soap voodoo doll and hex to your heart’s content. While you are toying
with the dark arts, come have some free Chick-fil-A.

Blazing speeds for decades. As you do, enjoy the safe-to-eat food. This movie will disgust you. It will also open
your eyes to the incredible damage the fast food industry is doing to the world.

Major Disappointment: The Yowl’s Handy Guide

Description: Classics majors are generally spoiled rich kids who are too obstinate to take a language course that actually matters.
Classics majors are tied at third with Political Science majors for attempts to domineer conversations towards material covered by their
major (English takes first and is followed closely by Economics). Classics majors also have the hardest time explaining their majors
to laymen and invariably get frustrated after doing so over and over again. Because Classics covers history and archaeology, it
is barely more useful than Philosophy, which is totally useless.
