THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2009

Davidson love; tradition. Most colleges and universities do (except maybe Brown). Traditions bind current students and alumni and energize all
elements of campus life. Traditions take many forms. They can be serious, such as the formal ceremony for first-year students
to sign the Honor Code. They can be simple, like singing the fight song at a basketball game. They can
even be as silly as the Freshman Cake Race, an event that’s taken place at Davidson since 1934. Traditions are
the small, quirky things that characterize any collective group of people. Traditions are powerful forces, too.

In this week’s article, “Two First-Year Davidson Traditions Change,” investigates the erasure of two of Davidson’s most prominent beginning-of-the-year social
customs: First Night Down and Big Brothers, Big Sisters. The main reason for doing away with both of these rituals
centers on reducing the pressure on freshmen to participate in drinking-related activities and creating a safer social environment. These are
both relevant issues to consider in determining our school’s social culture. No freshman should feel compelled to participate in an
underage drinking culture, and we at Davidson strive to provide a safe and protected social environment.

The Davidsonian staff, however, feels that the recent changes made to the traditional Davidson social life may potentially increase the
amount of underage drinking on campus. Renaming “First Night Down” as the “Opening of the Court” and moving it from
a Friday to a Monday does not change the fact that it will be the freshmen’s first opportunity to attend
a Patterson Court function. At the moment, court parties are scheduled not only at their typical times on Friday and
Saturday nights but also on Monday. The question from our staff members is whether spreading the court parties throughout the
week will reduce the pressure on freshmen.

The Big Brother/Big Sister relationship was maintained well after reaching the legal drinking age. Let’s hope Cats Connect can help
to develop similar mentor-mentee relationships. A tradition can be a good thing.

The Davidsonian
Editors
Brett Willis
News Editors
Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood
Perspectives Editors
Clint Smith & Bryan Norris
Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Gambrell
Yow! Editors
Alex Greening
Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Nami Patel
Business & Circulation Managers
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright
Online Editor
Greg Newman
Assistant Copy Editor
Joel Fineman
Photography Staff
Bill King, Aaron Robinson & Laney Schenk

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to:
The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez
College Union. Opinions expressed in articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Only
the staff editorial represents the views of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Email
Jordan Wall at jowall@davidson.edu for advertising inquiries. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

District “F”: You’re not welcome
CHARLIE REITER, MAURICIO SIMMS, AND MARK “THE SHARK” MARR
Guest Columnists

They come during the night. Six nights ago, Khalil Jolibois ’11 prepared for bed in the same way he has
every night the past three years at Davidson. He brushed his teeth, laid out his outfit for the next day,
and tucked himself in. As he lay peacefully, in what he assumed was the safety of his own room, he
was abruptly awoken by the crashing sound of a battering ram shattering his door. After a flash bang grenade was
thrown, he vaguely remembers chaotic shouting as men dressed in official biotech gear wrestled him to the floor, tightly securing
a black bag over his head. Khalil fought for his life, as evident by the bruises and missing fingernails, before
a tranquilizer dart pierced his jugular. The rest, he says, is a blur.

There are many questions about District F, the quarantine zone that houses over twenty Davidson students. No one knows what
goes on there. Emulating our idols, Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein, we decided to conduct groundbreaking investigative journalism concerning District
F to shed some light on the gross violations of human rights as outlined by the Geneva Conventions. The infected
we interviewed were coerced to say “I feel good,” when asked during phone conversations, but our direct investigation proved otherwise.
The term “black bagging” has become the nightmare of every student who so much as sneezes in public. Davidson has
become a police state, filled with jackals (snitches) who would even report their own mothers to the “black baggers” in
order to get in the good graces of the authoritative regime.

When suspected of being infected, students are taken from their dorms, stripped of their belongings, and transported to District F.
Upon arrival, the diseased are herded into a communal shower and then dressed in white jumpsuits equipped with gas masks.
They are unable to leave. Jolibois remembers how students “try to find beds” during the first night. They are sometimes
encouraged to fight for mattress rights for the guards’ entertainment, but most end up sharing or settling on makeshift beds
sprawled across the cold, hard floors. Even more animalistic is the eating patterns and rituals of the infected, which resembles
a Darwinist society focused on survival of the fittest. Wikus Van de Merwe, a native of Johannesburg, South Africa, former
MNU official and expert of District F, described the feeding process: “When we can remember to do so, we bring
over a box of left-over scraps from Commons. The box is then dropped off at the complex decontamination mechanism directly
connected to the cage. Once the aliens smell the food, armageddon ensues.” The infected battle over the tiniest morsels of
food; many go to bed each night hungry but are commanded to sleep off the hunger. Crime and corruption go
hand-in-hand witha diseased, malnourished population. Smuggling and the illegal sale of unmarked medicine are rampant within District F. During our
examination of the facilities (from a safe distance behind bars and bulletproof glass), the District resembled a third-world shanty town.
Gangs have especially profited from the quarantine zone by exploiting aliens and controlling the medicine market. These crime syndicates have
established a rudimentary currency system by monopolizing the exchange of the miracle-drug, Theraflu. Some humanitarians are sympathetic to the cause
and illegally smuggle in helpful medicine and food. If caught, it remains unclear what actually happens to these philanthropists, but
we can only assume the worst.

One of the main questions surrounding District F is what exactly its purpose is. Many are falsely led to believe
the District is simply a quarantine zone. Unfortunately, however, our findings show the truth is much darker. The human quest
for scientific knowledge has always been marred by the blood of the innocent. It is no different in District F
where experimentations begin when the sun goes down. Steve Rossiter ‘10, a healthy human student living near District F, described
the nightly noises, “I was heading back to my room one night when I heard a blood-curdling scream, followed by
a hand plastered against the window, covered in a foreign substance. This was accompanied by the piercing sound of a
drill.”

Our discoveries were inconclusive, but we were able to piece together a few vague hypotheses: bioengineering of the infected to
form a super race, dissection with an end goal of a swine flu vaccination, and/or the manipulation of brainwaves, which
supports the Manchurian Candidate-type appearance and demeanor of the quarantined upon release. Experimented upon, underfed, deprived of sleep and conversation,
manipulated by gangs, abused by the guards, and discriminated against by the freed world, the infected persevere. Once released, the
recently freed students resemble war-survivors. Smiles consumed their faces, but a closer look at their eyes revealed a sense that
their fellow man had betrayed them. We urge the healthy student body at Davidson to not succumb to the natural
human inclination to discriminate against the infected. They were once humans just like us. We must learn to coexist peacefully;
it’s the only way.

Charlie Reiter ‘10 is a Political Science major from Westport, CT. Mauricio Simms ‘11 is a Philosophy major from Bowie,
Maryland. Mark “the Shark” Millard ‘12 is undeclared. He is from Oak Creek, North Carolina. Contact them at chreiter@davidson.edu, masimms@davidson.edu,
and mamillard@davidson.edu, respectively.

---

Compassionate conservatism revisited

Pundits arguing for a more compassionate style of conservatism seem to think support of the free market neglects humanity. They
would prefer conservatives to think like President Eisenhower: “I am conservative on economic problems, but liberal when it comes to
human problems.” The so-called compassionate conservatives seek conservatism with a heart and use such language to justify their support of
expansive government. This thinking disregards the key component of conservatism: freedom.

Conservatives do not need to support welfare programs, bailouts, minimum wages, or universal health care to be compassionate. The adherence
to freedom and freedom’s principles does not just make one fiscally responsible; it also makes one socially responsible. Freedom is
compassion. Freedom allows for the citizen to live as he sees fit. Freedom does not assume that the federal government
can run lives better than those living them. True, freedom-focused conservatives know that the best way to help citizens is
to let them make the decisions regarding their lives. Let citizens decide what foods to eat, where to shop, where
to send their children to school, and what health plan works best. The best way to improve citizens’ lives is
to ensure that they have control over their lives.

This, of course, is a direct challenge to our existing government structure. Every politician, Republican or Democrat, seeks to expand
his or her powers. What is the easiest way to do this? By creating government programs that insert the government
into our lives. Congressmen and senators love to trot out programs that show how much they are looking out for
the poor, the sick, the hungry, or the children. These programs are designed to show the compassion of those in
power, but instead only serve to erode freedom and its resulting compassion. It is not compassionate to forcibly take money
from one group and give it to another. The giant redistribution of wealth our government engages in daily not only
lacks compassion but also destroys freedom.

The behemoth of these government interventions is health care. Once the government is in charge of citizens’ health care, what
is off-limits? What human action cannot be related to health? Proponents of nationalized health care have tried to court the
Christian Right by pointing out that Jesus Christ devoted his life to bestowing compassion upon others. What could be more
compassionate than making sure everyone has health care? President Obama has talked about being his brother and sister’s keeper and
helping the least among us. However, where amongst Christ’s teachings does it mention the government raising up the unfortunate through
a redistribution of wealth? Christ’s commands were not for governments but for citizens. Christ worked to put each individual on
the path of light. It is acting as private citizens that we truly help the least amongst us. Individuals engaged
in community service by their own free will are the ones who are doing the work of Christ.

Is the President correct in saying we are our brother and sister’s keeper? Absolutely. Should we be concerned with the
less fortunate and mistreated? Absolutely. How do we show compassion for the least amongst us? Through government programs? Absolutely not.
The best way for a compassionate society to exist is to foster a free society. Let private citizens be the
light in the world.

Bobby DesPain ‘11 is a biology major from St. Louis, Mo. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.
