6 The Davidsonian

STACIE BINNEY
Staff Writer

Spring at Davidson marks many beginnings around campus: blossoming flowers, frolicking, Lake Campus trips, and as many have already noticed, formal season.

Each eating house and most of the fraternities organize a special off-campus evening of dancing and dining for their members and their dates. This past weekend, Connor and Turner Eating Houses enjoyed separate nights at the nearby Carrigan Farms Rock Quarry, named for its surprising rock formations that make a popular background for photos.

Patterson Court formals provide off-campus trips

Phi Delta Theta also kicks off their Spring Frolics on April 23rd at the Rock Quarry. “It is always an exceptional night having the whole fraternity and our guests together and we expect the same this year,” Will General '11 said.

Rusk Eating House held their formal on March 28th at the Rock Quarry as well, yet split the nighttime fun into two pieces. The ladies played in the Quarry during the day, returned to Davidson to doll themselves up, and then retreated to the Quarry for dining, dancing, and a live band. “There was a Rusk Week leading up to it with lots of sisterly fun,” remarks Ellen Goodson ’11.

The night before, the brothers of Phi Gamma Delta took some time from busy college life to get dressed up and spend time in Belmont.

“We took Ragin’ Uptown to Belmont where we ate at the Old Stone Steakhouse and then moved to Stowe Manor, an old manor house we rented for the evening. It was especially nice because it had been a while since all of us had hung out because of work and schedules and everything,” Fiji’s Brian Tapfar ’11 said.

MARGARET MARTENS
Guest Writer

Village Green gets a spring makeover

Saturday’s weather was not the only delightful thing to enjoy on the Village Green in Davidson. Fourteen teams of artists and their sponsors converged to create functional works of art at Benches on the Green.

Park benches were transformed from plain and stained to masterpieces. Themes ranged from animal prints and children’s handprints to a taste of Italy, a woman reposing, and Mr. Potato Head. These benches and many more have been placed throughout Davidson as a visual reminder that April is for Arts.

Downtown Davidson Inc. and McIntosh Law Firm sponsored the event. The project was also made possible in part through a Cultural Project Grant from the Arts & Science Council and the Grassroots Program of the North Carolina Arts Council (a state agency).

For information and future April is for Arts events, visit downtowndavidson.org.

Davidson citizens of all ages gather on the Village Green to add a little color to park benches. This endeavor was part of the April is for Arts events series that the town has planned.

“Students & Faculty save 10% Everyday.”

Healthy eating can better prepare you for the challenges of learning and teaching. That is why Healthy Home Market offers a 10% discount to Davidson faculty and students. Just show your ID card and save 10% every day.

- Health & Special Diet Foods
- Organic Produce & Meats
- Area’s Largest Selection Of Name Brand Vitamins and Nutritional Supplements
- Bulk Foods (Nuts, Fruits, Mixes, & More)
- Gluten-Free Food Products
- Natural Deli with Wi-Fi
- Specialty Beer & Wine

261 Griffith Street • 704.892.6191
www.HEMARKET.com

CHARLOTTE’S BEST HEALTH FOOD MARKET

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2009

A month from now, Warner Hall will wrap up the formal season on May 2nd, with their usual tradition of an overnight in Charlotte. This year the ladies and their dates will be dancing and dining in the Embassy Suites hotel ballroom.

Several fraternities also chose the overnight option, with three fraternities celebrating the weekend after Easter Break. Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Kappa Sigma, and the Kappa Alpha Order are all booking rooms in different locations, anticipating a great turnout.

SAE will be spending the night at the Omni Charlotte, renting the top floor of the Forum Lounge for dancing.

Kappa Sigma will be visiting Savannah for a couple of nights and beach days, and KA heads to their usual Charleston location as part of a national KA Old South tradition. Their official nighttime formal will be held on a riverboat cruise on Saturday night.

Sigma Phi Epsilon made a relaxing trip to Myrtle Beach in South Carolina this past weekend for their formal.

“We had over 100 people join us at the Kingston Plantation Hilton. We basically spent the entire time on the beach soaking up all the sun,” Alex Mangone ’09 of Sig Ep said.

Fortunately, students who are not affiliated with any house still had the opportunity to dress up and dance this past weekend. The Black Student Coalition hosted their Spring Semi-formal, “A Black and White Affair,” last Saturday night.

“Our semi-formal is different than the other houses’ because it is open to the Davidson community the whole night and the entire semi-formal is on campus,” social chair Erin Turnquest ’12 said. “They are just like our other parties with a little more pizzazz.”