Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

There is an abundance of Davidson traditions that many students, alumni, and faculty alike participate in for the entire year.
This Friday afternoon (at least, most students begin) in the enviably sunny spring weather (we hope). The Third Annual Spring
Week aims to drag out the student body, making the Patterson area alive. We also need to keep in mind
that we are young.

The Davidsonian

Editors-in-Chief
Katherine Miller & Brian Moran

Managing Editor
Kate Kelly

News Editors
Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood

Perspectives Editors
Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris

Arts & Living Editors
Zoe Balaconis & Jennifer Gambrell

Yowl Editors
Alex Greening

Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis

Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Nami Patel
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright

Online Editor
Greg Newman

Content Manager
Kelly Beggs

Assistant Copy Editors
Alex Kowaleski, Joel Fineman & Jeffrey Roth

Photography Staff
Bill King, Aaron Robinson & Laney Schenk

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to:
The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez
College Union. Opinions expressed in articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Only
the staff editorials represent the views of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Email
Jordan Wall at jowall@davidson.edu for advertising inquiries. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

This month, Afghanistan’s government signed a law that, among other things, essentially legalizes marital rape of Shiite Muslim women. Although
President Karzai later removed the provision in the face of mass protests in Kabul, it is deeply unfortunate that Afghanistan
would almost enact such a horrific law. The response of the American political system, however, went beyond simple condemnation of
the proposed change. Writers across the political spectrum cited this episode, as well as a graphic video of a young
woman being brutally beaten by the Taliban in Pakistan’s Swat Valley, to suggest that the United States should more actively
defend women’s rights in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Some, like The New Republic’s Richard Just, have gone so far as to
criticize the Obama Administration’s plans to co-opt some members of the Taliban-led insurgency in Afghanistan because of its insufficient respect
for women’s rights.

ZEKE WEBSTER

The response to this law demonstrates that, though the U.S. foreign policy elite have condemned the invasion of Iraq as
misguided, the dangerous principles that justified the Iraq War are alive and well. Now, such calls are made with very
good intentions, and these incidents are just as horrible as they sound. More broadly, it’s hard to see how the
state of women’s rights will be anything short of disastrous in these areas for the foreseeable future. But the soundness
of their motives doesn’t make such polemics a good policy. Trying to directly advocate women’s rights in Pakistan and Afghanistan
would be a classic case of wildly unrealistic goals undermining broader policy objectives. No matter how repulsive this kind of
behavior might be—and it is repulsive—there are an awful lot of people in Afghanistan and the Federally Administered Tribal Area
of Pakistan, or FATA, that have no sympathy whatsoever for women’s rights as we know them. Even if we don’t
share their values, many of these people might be inclined to support the United States and the governments of Pakistan
and Afghanistan against the Taliban under the right conditions, but will defect in a heartbeat if America becomes increasingly vocal
about the need to compel Afghanistan’s government to respect women’s rights. Morality has a place in foreign policy, but policymakers
have to be realistic about the consequences of their actions, particularly if the “moral” course involves targeting the country in
question with economic sanctions or military action. Alienating potential allies will endanger U.S. prospects for victory and increase the chance
that millions of women will suffer even greater injustices under Taliban rule. For someone concerned with the moral and humanitarian
consequences of our foreign policy, this possibility can’t be ignored.ignored. The response to this law demonstrates that, though the U.S.
foreign policy elite have condemned the invasion of Iraq as misguided, the dangerous principles that justified the Iraq War are
alive and well. Just as no Iraqis benefited from the invasion and enduring conflict that killed hundreds of thousands and
created millions of refugees, no Afghan women will benefit if we jeopardize the effort to defeat the Taliban in the
name of women’s rights. Morality has a place in foreign policy, but policymakers have to be realistic about the consequences
of their actions, particularly if the “moral” course involves targeting the country in question with economic sanctions or military action.
Many people live in poverty or suffer from unjust governments; but it’s not often that the poor benighted people of
wherever will have their lives improved if the U.S. Army comes in with guns blazing. Nobody will thank America for
well-intentioned policies with horrible consequences, nor should they.

Zeke Webster ’09 is a political science major from Clemmons, N.C. Contact him at zewebster@davidson.edu.

Overturn “Don’t ask, don’t tell”
ANJAN MUKHERJEE
Perspectives Editor

According to The New York Times, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates told reporters on Thursday that if the military’s “don’t
ask, don’t tell” policy were to be repealed, it would be done “slowly,” and suggested that it might not happen
at all. Sec. Gates went on to say that the issue of gays in the military is a “complex and
difficult problem.” Pardon my ignorance, but I beg to differ. While the actual bureaucracy (and paperwork) of all of this
may be complicated, the issue itself could not be clearer. I firmly believe that discrimination based on sexual orientation is
a violation of basic human rights. In the end, that’s what the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy is promoting. As
it stands, those who identify as homosexual may serve in the United States military as long as they aren’t open
about their sexual preference. Suffice it to say, this is a close-minded and foolish way of thinking. Sexual orientation is
not a good enough reason to turn someone away from the military. There are thousands of potential soldiers, translators, and
medical professionals—just to name a few—who are ready to serve their country in a selfless and courageous manner. They also
happen to be gay.

Discrimination due to sexual orientation is a violation of basic human rights. When discrimination results from skin color, most people
rightly recognize racism. When someone faces discrimination because of his or her gender, most people correctly identify sexism. When the
issue changes to sexual orientation, however, the response isn’t quite the same. Like racism and sexism, homophobia must not be
tolerated. If we truly support equality under the law, why shouldn’t the U.S. military stand on the same plane? When
the fundamental question is posed, there exists no adequate justification for turning people away from the armed forces due to
their sexual orientation. This homophobic rule must be eliminated, and it must happen soon. There are thousands of potential soldiers,
translators, and medical professionals—just to name a few—who are ready to serve their country in a selfless and courageous manner.
They also happen to be gay.

In 1948, President Harry S. Truman signed an executive order that integrated the armed services. This decision was undoubtedly a
good one, as the American military became stronger when the wall of racism that divided it came crumbling down. President
Obama has said that he would like to see the armed forces repeal the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy. I
hope that he and Secretary Gates can reach an agreement soon; this way, citizens who wish to serve their country
would not be turned down that chance. I am glad that President Obama wants this change to be part of
his administration’s legacy. These men and women want to step up and proudly serve their country and help protect the
ideals upon which the United States thrives. The very least they deserve in return is the opportunity to do so.

Anjan Mukherjee ’09 is a music major from Chevy Chase, Md. Contact him at anmukherjee@davidson.edu.
