THE INTRODUCTORY ISSUE
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2009

FLICKERBALL TO MATTER EVEN LESS THAN FRESHMAN OLYMPICS
SEE PAGE 3

CHARMING SENIOR DISCOVERS DOWNSIDE OF FAME
SEE PAGE 5

"Hi! How was YOUR SUMMER, AND WHY SHOULD I CARE?”
SEE RANDOM PEOPLE

NEW STUDY PROVES SOPHOMORE APTS. UNIMPORTANT AFTER FIRST NIGHT DOWN
SEE PAGE 4

OF THE WEEK
SEARCH: “AFSCME”

YOWL
Your Davidson Honor

Section Editor: Alex Greening
Writers: Peter Bruton, Amanda Ottaway, Vincent Weir, Lauren Odomirok

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

Don’t eat the chocolate pudding

Discrimination at Davidson: Stupid People are People, Too

Despite over 100 years of criticism, it appears that Davidson College will continue its controversial discrimination policy against stupid people.
Byron McClue is a human rights activist on the Davidson campus, where he is on the board of the Foundation
for the Young, Oppressed, and Underprivileged (F YOU). In recent years, Byron and F YOU have lobbied the cause of
the stupid and have called attention to their plight. Idiots like these have virtually no chance of attending Davidson.

“In my thirteen years at Davidson, the college has admitted over 27,000 students, only fifty-eight of which were stupid,” said
McClue. “When you compare this to the number of stupid people in the population, you realize how horribly prejudiced we
have become. If Davidson wants to prepare its students for the real world, it had better give this issue some
thought,” said McClue.

The integration will no doubt be a difficult process. According to F YOU data, the only way for Davidson to
reach the desired quota of stupid people in next year’s freshman class is to actively recruit them from historically stupid
areas. “Stupid people have stupid children and breed a culture where the smart schools are never a consideration. I’m afraid
the majority of stupid people are too dumb to apply,” said McClue.

Of course, some stupid people are stupid enough to apply anyway. But these idiots are not enough to make a
real difference. It is now widely recognized that because of the harsh discriminatory atmosphere at Davidson and other comparable institutions,
stupid people are being forced to attend less prestigious and, in some cases, lower quality institutions. Another recent study showed
that stupid people received 24 cents to the smart person’s dollar, and were 73% less likely to be hired than
their smart counterparts. “This is the very essence of discrimination,” said McClue. “I am looking for some upstanding Americans who
are stupid enough to do something about it.”

Concert Confusion Stuns Wall-E, Pixar Enthusiasts

Duke Performance Hall—Last week entertainer Wale graced the campus of Davidson College with his presence and thrilled a capacity crowd
with his hip hop performance. While the majority of the audience had intended to see the DC rapper, a small
group of students had very different expectations for their Saturday night.

“We were under the impression that the Union Board was premiering the double disc Bluray edition of the Disney/Pixar entertainment
motion picture ‘Wall-E,’” said The Animation and Technology Club President Ernie Snead. “My kid sister was in town. I thought
she might like to see a night of good clean fun. Instead we were hit with a barrage of lyrics
about loose women and expensive sneakers. I was very disappointed to say the least.”

Foul-mouthed rapper Wale appalled Davidson's tamer students

Snead and the Animation Club arrived very early on Saturday to secure front row seats. They had heard that the
show was sold out. “Naturally we assumed that everyone was excited to see some digital shenanigans in HD,” Snead explained.
“When the rapper came on stage we figured it was Pixar unveiling their new technology.

September 2, 2009 : The Freshman’s First Time
The Davidsonian

Hundreds of Davidson freshmenand their parents flooded campus last weekend as move-in day finally arrived and orientation commenced. “Cramming your
junk inside is always a pleasurable experience,” said President Tom Ross in a speech to the frosh. “You’re going in
and out and up and down for several hours at a time. It’s definitely a workout! I broke a good
sweat my first time too.”

“When my son came for the first time and told me, ‘I love this!’” said one freshman mother, “I knew
he would want to come here for four years. It is such a warm, comfortable environment, although he noted it
was a little damp — we’re not used to the humidity down here!”

“Mikey and his father struggled for hours on the bed,” said another mother. “Those two boys just could not get
those poles into the darn holes! We actually had to ask for some new poles, because the ones we had
were too skinny. They just wobbled around and then fell right out! But fortunately, I’ve spent a lot of time
exhausting myself on beds in my career, so I was glad to be of some help.”

On Saturday, all the freshmen trekked out on the Logan Senken service walk. This is notorious for being very long,
very hot, and very, very hard. “We had to stop three or four times to rest,” said freshman girl Hope
Hartman. “It made my whole body hurt! I was sore for days. But we kept going at it.”

The busy week concluded with an ice-cream social in the Union. Five hundred teenagers wrestled with each other to be
the first to receive a delicious treat from Georgia Ringle, Chester, John, and Sharon. “I want lots of whipped cream
on mine!” the newbies were heard to shout. “And top it off with a cherry!”

We interviewed freshman Logan Senken, who struggled to talk through a mouthful of goodies. “At first I couldn’t even fit
my mouth around it!” she exclaimed, gesturing at her oversized cone. “But once I licked around the edges to stop
it from dripping, it got much smaller and was easier to enjoy.”

Freshmen, it feels wonderful to finally have you. The Davidson community is eager to open up and welcome you inside!

Davidson Students Catch More Than Hangover at “F”

In an unusual display of foresight and keen policy-making, what is arguably the most-frequented residence building on the campus has
been modified to house dangerously contagious individuals. “Beirut” or “beerpong,” one of the most popular neighborhood activities at F, involves
communal cups and ingestion of immune system-hindering fluids. Swine flu, coincidentally, “may be transmitted by touching something with the virus
on it and then touching the mouth or nose.”

Davidson College assures its student body that the quarantine zones are additional “safety measures.” No official statement has been issued
regarding the mustard gas in the Outpost bathrooms, or the general health hazard that is the Tomlinson kitchenette.
