THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2009

Prison Break: Schlosser addresses prison reform

JESSE JOHNSON Staff Writer

Eric Schlosser, author of “Fast Food Nation,” delivered the 2009 Z. Smith Reynolds lecture last Tuesday, speaking on the urgent
need to reform America’s prison system. “His works do not oversimplify issues,” President Ross said in his introduction. Schlosser invites
his readers and listeners to visualize the nation socially. Ross further explained that “Fast Food Nation” is as “disturbing as
it is irresistible.”

After thanking everyone for having him on such a lovely day to discuss such a depressing issue, Schlosser stated that
“prison life becomes more and more a part of mainstream culture... [and is a] constant theme in Hip Hop.”

“We give them [prisoners] an intense and memorable lesson in brutality, then release them and expect them to behave well.”
- Eric Schlosser

According to Schlosser, in the 1970s there were 200,000 people in prison in the U.S. Today, there are 2.3 million
prisoners. “Our [the nation’s] prison population is more than three times [the population] of Charlotte,” Schlosser informed the audience. California
alone has more prisoners than Great Britain, France, Germany, and the Netherlands combined. Schlosser went on to say that China
has 1.5 million prisoners and they are a totalitarian communist state, yet the United States has a larger prisoner population
than they do.

Schlosser believes that the mainstream media makes people believe that the U.S. is placing violent people behind bars. “I’m all
for that... I met some dangerous people,” Schlosser said. “We may all come to a consensus that certain people do
belong in prison, but does everyone currently in prison belong there?”

Schlosser’s best estimates come down to this: in U.S. prisons we have 125,000 murderers, 100,000 sex offenders, 150,000 armed robbers,
totaling 375,000 prisoners. Hypothetically, Schlosser reasons, if we assume he is “unbelievably wrong” and that the figure is actually closer
to 750,000 prisoners, still more than 1.5 million prisoners do not fit into a category deemed “violent.”

In the 1980s, Schlosser informs his addressees, one-half of prisoners were violent, but today only two-thirds are violent. The majority
of these prisoners are poor individuals who had an average income of only $10,000. Furthermore, 70 percent of prisoners are
illiterate and three-quarters had alcohol and/or drug problems when arrested. The mentally ill make up about 350,000-400,000 prisoners because in
the last 25 years the U.S. has shut down hospitals for the mentally ill. “L.A. County Jail is the largest
mental hospital in the U.S.,” Schlosser stated.

Additionally, no country other than the United States has incarcerated so many women, and the majority of the women in
prison are victims of abuse or there because of illegal activities of their boyfriends. Three-quarters of people in prison are
individuals of color, the majority being blacks and Latinos, two groups of people that are “most likely to be poor
and to go to jail,” according to Schlosser. One-third of African-American men in the U.S. are in prison, on probation,
or on parole, a fact that “is a manmade disaster.”Schlosser said, “Young Black and White men use illegal drugs at
almost the same rate, but Black men are five times more likely to be arrested. If you have money, you
can get a lawyer or make a good effort to change ways or even go to rehab.” The U.S. prison
system does almost nothing to assist those in prison who need rehab, usually individuals of low income, as only one-tenth
of prisoners who need drug treatment receive it. The average prisoner spends only two and a half years behind bars.
“We give them an intense and memorable lesson in brutality, then release them and expect them to behave well,” Schlosser
stated. The true lesson taught in prison, Schlosser claims, is that “the strong will always rule the weak.” The weak
either need protection by joining a gang or will learn a hard lesson. Fifty to 60 billion dollars a year
is spent on a system that is a giant “revolving door,” because the “dysfunctional go in and come out just
as dysfunctional, if not worse, and sometimes go back,” Schlosser reasoned.

Canada does not spend half as much money on their prison system as the U.S. does, and their crime rate
has been decreasing since the 1990s. Schlosser wondered how the United States expects the prison rate to decrease when programs
automatically place drug users in prison. Schlosser believes that U.S. citizens should not be apathetic about the issues with our
prison system. After all, some states are paying more for prisons than they are for universities. Prisons assist gangs in
recruitment and they also assist in the spreading of diseases to individuals. According to Schlosser, 1.3 million people leave prison
with Hepatitis C, 150,000 leave with AIDS, and 500,000 leave with Tuberculosis.

Schlosser believes that at the end of the day, individuals should care about this issue. It matters that California has
four times as many Black men in prison than in college. It matters that two million children have at least
one parent in prison. North Carolina decided to rethink long sentencing for violent individuals and also decided to keep non-violent
people out of prison as much as possible, an effort in which, Schlosser informed the audience, President Ross participated. Schlosser
indicates that we may need to reform our society, given that it produced all these prisoners. He is confident that
change is possible in this country, especially with the arrival of a new Presidential Administration in D.C. “The U.S. needs
less greed and more compassion,” Schlosser stated.

Students who have lived or are currently living in Irwin, Akers, and Knox have been emailed by RLO asking for
recommendations about how to renovate the lounges in a way that would be most beneficial to them. All of these
renovation plans are just as Dean Perillo said.
