The administration's strategic plan, presented to Davidson’s trustees last week, included consideration of offering credit for “depth learning,” i.e., potential
inclusion of internships, immersion experiences, and community service. Among the discussion of such expansion (and expansion of class offerings certainly
holds its merits), the aspect we find most appealing is the possibility of allowing students to receive credit for internships
and other hands-on experiences. This effort to expand the curriculum re-evaluates the meaning of a Davidson education—representing an albeit gradual
awareness of the need for a more practical approach beyond just practicality. Many internships are unpaid; legally, students can only
work without receiving pay if they receive, in lieu of compensation, course credit towards their degrees. Given Davidson's historical context,
haven’t we already changed the policy?

Editors-in-Chief: Katherine Miller & Brian Moran
Managing Editor: Kate Kelly
News Editors: Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood
Perspectives Editors: Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris
Arts & Living Editors: Zoe Balaconis & Jennifer Gambrell
Yowl Editor: Alex Greening
Sports Editors: Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
Head Copy Editors: Christy Carry & Nami Patel
Business & Circulation Managers: Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright
Online Editor: Greg Newman
Content Manager: Kelly Beggs
Assistant Copy Editor: Alex Kowaleski
Photography Staff: Bill King, Aaron Robinson & Laney Schenk

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to:
The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail: Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez
College Union. Opinions expressed in articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Only
the staff editorials represent the views of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Email
Jordan Wall at jowall@davidson.edu for advertising inquiries. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Ross WHITE
Guest Columnist

Two weeks ago, I took part in the ongoing Davidson tradition in which each senior gets a chance to have
dinner with Davidson College President, Tom Ross ’72. This is a time for students to reflect on their Davidson experience,
specifically what aspects they most cherished in their time here as well as what improvements the college can make for
future students. I need not describe the good characteristics (the people, the community, the safety, the opportunities, etc.) for we
all see them every day, but I do think it’s worth noting one theme that came up a few times:
the curriculum.

What struck me most among the 25 of us gathered for dinner was that I was the only one who
would be receiving an academic concentration. Davidson prides itself on being one of the premier liberal arts institutions in the
country, and for good reason. I can’t begin to describe the intellectual, mental, social, and personal development that I have
gone through in the “best four years of my life,” but much of this would not have been possible without
me stumbling upon the academic section of the school website devoted to concentrations. Little did I know that I would
soon be committing myself to a concentration in Medical Humanities long before I settled on being a political science major.
Now, a month and a half from graduation, I consider myself more defined by my concentration than by my major.

Through my concentration in Medical Humanities, I have found the true value in interdisciplinary studies; the way in which philosophy,
medicine, political science, religion, sociology, and economics form an enlightening confluence of concepts through which to examine the practice of
effective and ethically sound medicine and science. I am confident when I say that the opportunities made available to me
as a Medical Humanities concentrator are unmatched at peer institutions of similar size. Few other institutions have a formal Medical
Humanities program, let alone a formal affiliation with a teaching hospital (Carolinas Medical Center) that allows students the opportunity for
truly hands-on clinical experience.

This experience is not unique, however, to Medical Humanities. The college website currently lists 13 concentrations ranging from East Asian
Studies and Neuroscience (which are often expanded into majors through the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies) to Applied Mathematics (of which
I’ve never heard of anyone doing). Each of these concentrations provides a means for students to cultivate their interests in
a truly interdisciplinary fashion, defining the liberal arts education. While certainly having core requirements in a variety of subjects provides
students with exposure to fields that they would not otherwise pursue, the value is sometimes lost because it can lead
to a grab-bag collection of the easiest or most “fun” classes in those respective fields. Concentrations, on the other hand,
cultivate the exploration of different disciplines with a common thread through which to link the courses, thereby providing a more
comprehensive understanding of a subject area. This description is similar to the justification of the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies but
is different in the types of students that it attracts. Most students simply want the structure provided within a traditional
departmental major, while others do not want to commit themselves to over a year of thesis research and writing. I
see concentrations as a middle ground, offering the benefits of interdisciplinary studies without the extensive commitment required by the Center
for Interdisciplinary Studies.minors. They provide the value of the Center, with more flexibility and less time investment. For this reason,
concentrations can be tremendous supplements to the traditional department majors. Although I believe strongly in the merits of concentrations, I
do not think that they should be a requirement. I do think, however, that the college should better encourage concentrating
in some type of interdisciplinary field. Concentrations should be better advertised and more accessible to both incoming and current students.
This can be achieved through a variety of means, all of which were discussed in some fashion at my dinner
with President Ross: a redesign of the website that “highlights” concentrations and makes it easier to learn more about them,
more training of faculty advisors to discuss the variety of academic options with incoming freshmen, and departmental chairs encouraging concentrations
related to their fields. These are just a few suggestions, which are currently being discussed as a part of the
ongoing Strategic Assessment, but I think that these are necessary points of discussion for revising the curriculum. The education I
have received at Davidson would be one of the best in the country, whether or not I decided to pursue
a concentration in Medical Humanities, but my decision to do so has helped me to discover, cultivate, and refine my
interests in bioethics and health care policy. Because of this, I am pursuing a future that I never would have
imagined upon entering Davidson. I know there are peers of mine who have had similar experiences. I hope that future
students can find the same. Ross White ’09 is a political science major with a concentration in medical humanities from
Mount Pleasant, S.C. Contact him at rowhite@davidson.edu.

Beyond the limits of a standard departmental major—my Human Rights Council is hopeless. The Age of Obama is fast becoming
the Age of Surrender. Across the country and the globe, the Obama Administration is showing the white flag of moral
surrender. Does the United States still stand for freedom and justice with President Obama at the helm? The announcement at
the end of March that the United States would seek to join the United Nations Human Rights Council suggests otherwise.
The UN is an organization of follies, but the Human Rights Council (HRC) is its biggest lie. It is natural
to assume that an organization with “Human Rights” in its title would be concerned with human rights. The HRC is
concerned with human rights, but only to protect human rights abusers. This is not surprising if you know which countries
are members of the HRC. Of the 47 Council members, Freedom House only ranks 23 as free. Making up the
rest of the body are countries like Russia, China, Saudi Arabia, and Pakistan. Not a single one of those countries
has any business being on a body charged with promoting human rights across the globe. Undoubtedly, these countries will and
do use the HRC not to promote human rights, but to fend off charges of human rights violations. You might
wonder how those countries manage to obtain a seat on the HRC? What are the qualifications needed to promote human
rights? None. A simple majority in the UN General Assembly is enough. Thus, with a large portion of the world
currently choking freedom, it is easy to get on the Council. Just as its parent, the HRC has an obsession
with Israel. While Darfur reinvents the phrase “hell on earth,” the HRC has eyes only for Israel. Israel is the
only country to be on the Council’s permanent agenda. After its inception in June of 2006, the HRC took two
years to condemn another country besides Israel. What tore their attention away from Israel? The situation in Myanmar. Of course,
they could not bring themselves to actually condemn the military junta, but only to say that they deplored the situation.
In other words, through the lens of the HRC, the murderous, aid-stealing generals of Myanmar violate fewer human rights than
the democratically elected politicians of Israel. In this year’s annual session, the HRC passed over two dozen resolutions. Seven resolutions
strongly condemned countries. Of those, one condemned North Korea, one condemned Myanmar, and five condemned Israel. No wonder tyrants are
on the rise. The Council does not look as if it is improving either. Rather than fighting Islamo-fascism, the HRC
is choosing instead to ally with it. It currently seeks to pass a resolution “Combating the Defamation of Religion.” In
other words, it restricts criticisms of religion. And by religion, it means Islam. It is still fine to criticize Christianity
and Judaism. The resolution seeks to justify the jailing and perhaps even killing of people like Danish cartoonists, Dutch filmmakers,
and Iranian writers. President Obama thinks he can reform the HRC from the inside. I would only ask how well
has that worked with the UN? Have North Korea and Iran given up their thirst for nuclear weapons? Has Russia
stopped jailing journalists? Has Sudan stopped bleeding and raping itself to death? What has the United States gained from being
on the inside of the UN? How well do you think the UN represents American interests? Does President Obama really
think the HRC will be any different? Bobby DesPain ’11 is undeclared. He is from St. Louis, Mo. Contact him
at bodespain@davidson.edu.
