10 THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Vick in search of second chance

Logan Lewis
Sports Editor

Michael Vick played in an NFL game Thursday night as a member of the Philadelphia Eagles in a preseason matchup with the Jacksonville Jaguars. This was his first NFL action since his conditional reinstatement by NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, after serving 18 of a 23-month prison sentence for running a dogfighting ring.

Vick took the field with birds of a different feather in his first game since December 31, 2006, when the Eagles beat his former team, the Atlanta Falcons, to end the regular season. On the field, Vick looked rusty to say the least. He participated in six snaps, one at wide receiver. He completed all four passes which he attempted for a total of 19 yards. Two of these plays were shovel passes, one was a swing pass to a running back, and one was a nicely timed 13-yard completion to Hank Baskett. While his performance was not exceptional, he showed that he can still play football in the NFL. He will also keep defensive coordinators up late at night pondering how to stop such an incredible athlete in the newly popular “wildcat” formation.

After the game, Vick reported that he was at about 70 percent, which I consider to be outstanding, having been removed from football for more than two years. Vick will not be eligible to play in regular season games until Commissioner Goodell makes his final ruling by week six (October 18-19). This suspension until the middle of October will allow Vick to hone his skills and get back to 100 percent in time to help the Eagles win a competitive NFC East this season. Vick is scheduled to play in the Eagles’ final preseason game this Thursday night against the New York Jets in the Meadowlands. Although his amount of playing time is still uncertain, the uproar and publicity surrounding him every time he touches the field is not.

Now that Vick is back on an NFL team, a flood of controversy envelopes him off the field. Protesters plead that his crimes were so great that he does not deserve a second chance to play a sport professionally. Some have threatened to boycott his games and others have claimed that they will hold rallies protesting his employment with the Eagles. Those who are crazed with hate toward Vick are now taking it upon themselves to wreck his livelihood, to prevent him from making a living in his profession.

While I think that the crimes Michael Vick committed were heinous offenses, I disagree with those who seem to have forgotten about the American system of justice. When someone commits a crime and pleads guilty, he or she receives due punishment, and after serving the required time goes back to a normal lifestyle. Apparently, those who detest Michael Vick do not believe in this democratic system of justice that has governed this country for some 200 years.

Michael Vick pleaded guilty to running an illegal dogfighting operation. He admitted his guilt and suffered the consequences. He served 18 months in federal prison. He is also currently suffering from a 20 million dollar bankruptcy. If that’s not enough, he missed out on 18 months of his three children’s lives. These were all self-inflicted consequences, but it does not change the fact that Vick suffered all of these things in the public eye while others who have been guilty of much worse (even other major sports stars) didn’t suffer nearly the same public persecution. He apologized to millions of people, vowing to promote awareness to stop dogfighting. Tony Dungy, one of the most well-respected individuals ever to be associated with the NFL, has graciously chosen to take Vick under his wing so that he can get his life back together both on and off the field. Now that Vick has turned over a new leaf, the public should do the same. Vick has done his time and has suffered unfathomable consequences. Let him do his job.

Caskey '11 voted to preseason All-SoCon team as Wildcats prepare to begin season Friday

Zachary Zimmerman
Staff Writer

Davidson men’s soccer team will enjoy the perk of experience for the 2009-2010 season. Along with nine starters, seven seniors will also return to Davidson this year to lead the team. In addition, Davidson brings in four new freshman athletes for the future of the program. Like in past years, Davidson Soccer and head coach Matt Spear have prepared a challenging non-conference slate to get his team prepared for Southern Conference play. The 2009-2010 schedule includes three teams that competed in the NCAA tournament last year. NCAA giants like Duke, South Carolina, Virginia Tech and...Wake Forest will provide intense challenges and fierce competition to prepare the team for the conference season. When it comes to talent, Davidson has a wealth of it. One player in particular needs to be recognized. Alex Caskey '11 was named to the preseason All-Southern Conference team on Thursday. Last year, he registered 10 points including 4 assists which led the team.

Adding more anticipation and mystery to the season is the battle for the goal. Three experienced players, Robby Goldsberry '10, Matt McElroy '11, and Chip Sanders '12 will compete for the opportunity to start in the box this season. While Goldsberry is the favorite, starting 13 of 15 matches last season, no true starter is yet declared. “There’s a lot of excitement within the team given the influx of new freshmen and new assistant coach,” said midfielder Josh Zipin '11, “We have to perform this year and finish in the top four in the conference so we have an opportunity to compete for a Southern conference title in the postseason. It’s going to be difficult, but we’re excited for the challenge.”

Davidson will have three home matches to kick off the season. In this manner, Davidson will be able to mount an enormous advantage if they can capitalize on their early home matches to build momentum. Davidson hosts USC-Upstate on Saturday at 7 p.m. at Alumni Stadium. The following week, Davidson plays UNC-Asheville and Coastal Carolina when they host the Adidas Classic. The season should prove to be exhilarating and very successful due to the experience and talent of the squad this year.

Football
(0-0)
Results:
8/29 vs. Ball State L 1-2

Next Up:
9/5 vs. USC-Upstate

Notes:
The Wildcats face a stern early season test as they travel to Elon to take on the nationally-ranked Phoenix.

Field Hockey
(1-1)
Results:
8/30 vs. Sacred Heart W 1-0

Next Up:
9/5 @ #11 Elon

Notes:
Davidson’s defense looked sharp in the opening weekend limiting its opponents to just two goals in two games.

Men’s Soccer
(0-0)
Results:
9/4 @ Georgetown
9/5 vs. Cornell (@ GU)
9/8 vs. #4 UNC

Notes:
Alex Caskey '11 was voted to the preseason All-Southern Conference team after earning postseason All-Conference honors last year. Midfielder Alex Caskey '11, left, was voted preseason All-Southern Conference by the league’s coaches after leading the Wildcats with four assists and ten points in the 2008 season.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2009

Fifteen minutes into the second half, Ink notched her second goal of the season in the chaotic aftermath of a free kick. Finally, the 'Cats proved they could score against impressive ACC competition, and from there, the team can only build its confidence. Cain topped off her hat trick during the subsequent Wolfpack possession, and the score remained frozen at 4-1 until the finale. Held relatively close in the shot column, six to ten, Ward recorded two saves. Thanks to the career game from Baxa, however, the 0-1 tally at halftime did not hold.

Despite the clear challenge of this matchup, Davidson did not fail to throw some positive performances. Baxa earned 77 minutes of playing time with five saves in the face of 12 shots. Ward closed the game out in goal with a pair of her own saves. On the offensive front, Cain and Conner returned to the shot column along with Courtney Hart '10 and Rachel. These performances are invaluable to the team’s development, especially since they won't factor into the SoCon standings. The conference games will seem more conquerable.

The 'Cats continue their difficult preseason schedule this weekend against Villanova and Francis Marion. Both games will take place in the familiar surroundings of Alumni Stadium. The Wildcats from the Big East will come to town at 7 p.m. on Friday, Sept. 4, while the Sunday game against Francis Marion kicks off at 2 p.m.

Women’s Soccer
(1-2)
Results:
8/22 @ Winthrop W 3-1
8/28 @ N.C. State L 1-4
8/30 @ UNCW L 0-4

Next Up:
9/4 vs. Villanova
9/6 vs. Francis Marion

Volleyball
(0-4)
Results:
8/28 vs. Campbell L 1-3
8/28 Charleston Southern L 1-3
8/29 vs. Morgan State L 1-3
8/29 vs. N.C. State L 1-3

Next Up:
9/5 @ High Point
9/5 vs. Marshall (@ HPU)
9/6 vs. WSSU (@ HPU)

Notes:
After dropping two out of three on the road to begin the season, the 'Cats look to get back on track in Friday’s home opener.

Men’s and Women’s Cross Country
Results:
9/5 Eye Opener at USC-Upstate @ Spartanburg, S.C.

Notes:
The men’s cross country team was selected to finish third in the Southern Conference preseason poll released last week.