6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

For dinner?!

JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Arts & Living Editor

This Sunday, Toast is collaborating with Davidson’s Field Hockey and Volleyball teams for an all-you-can-eat pancake supper. Toast opened its newest location on Main St. last spring and is excited to connect with the student body. The two sports teams decided to hold a fundraiser to help pay for expenses such as traveling costs and equipment.

“Toast hasn’t helped Davidson with a fundraiser before because no one had ever contacted them about it. We wanted to see if they were interested,” said Courtney Tobe ’11. Toast’s owners saw the idea as an opportunity to reach out to the community.

“The money goes to [the Field Hockey and Volleyball teams]...we don’t even have enough money for team socks! But it will bring a lot more people to Toast. We’re hoping to give the restaurant a little bit more exposure,” Tobe said.

With the appeal of unlimited pancakes combined with the fun atmosphere of dining out with friends, a large crowd is sure to be attracted to this event. Team members will waitress the night of the event, which is sure to make the evening even more enjoyable. Tickets to the pancake supper can be purchased this week in the Union for $8 or $10 at Toast. The dinner will be held Sunday, March 29 from 5:30 to 8 p.m.

Arts & LIVING

Pancakes?

Roche’s music blends blues and jazz

JON WOLF
Staff Writer

This week’s Live Thursday will feature the solo piano and vocal music of Waylen Roche ’10. Roche has been very active in the music scene on campus, participating in the Jazz Ensemble and the Off Main Jazz Quintet and fronting the winning group of last year’s Battle of the Bands.

As a child in his hometown of Tallahassee, Fla., Roche’s early influences included Jerry Lee Lewis, Fats Waller, Lightning Hopkins, and Mississippi John Hurt. He also credits the styles of blues, boogie-woogie, and classical music as major sources of inspiration. He began taking piano lessons at age four and wrote his first song at age eight: a simple 12-bar boogie that he performed for his parents. Roche also includes such artists as Tom Waits and Robert Johnson as having influenced his own singing.

Though he has kept a sufficient interest in classical music, Roche’s passion for improvisation—starting at age 10—now pervades his style. The past few years have brought an increased interest in jazz for him, with influences including Keith Jarrett, Chick Corea, and Thelonious Monk. Roche states that he admires artists who can, “thread seamlessly the dissonance and dark truths of reality through the bright and joyous expression of music.”

For his show this Thursday, Roche will be performing several original pieces with heavy rock and blues sounds, as well as a few jazz tunes and covers with Anjan Mukherjee ’09 on drums, Galen Bradley ’10 on bass, and Charlie Ford ’12 on alto saxophone. This concert will certainly exemplify Roche’s compelling stage presence, insightful and inventive improvisation, and his “big fat mound” of soul.

Bring a Straight Edge and a calculator

ABBEY THIBEAULT
Guest Writer

Brendan Riley, ’11 drives to Charlotte almost every weekend. He ditches Davidson to play with his band, Lowbrow. Lowbrow is a hardcore group that often performs in Charlotte on the weekends. Riley’s group and the hardcore movement are part of a growing worldwide phenomenon known as Straight Edge.

Straight Edge is a youth movement that began on the East Coast in the 1980s and is dedicated to clean living. Straight Edge youth make a lifetime commitment to abstain from alcohol, tobacco, illegal drugs, and promiscuous sex. The term Straight Edge was coined by the band Minor Threat in their 1981 song, “Straight Edge.” This song’s lyrics promote the lifestyle advocated by the movement: “I’m a person just like you/But I’ve got better things to do/Hang out with the living dead/Snort white shit up my nose/PassOut at the shows / I don’t even think about speed / That’s something I just don’t need / I’ve got the straight edge.” Straight Edge emerged as a response to the increasingly self-destructive behavior in the punk scene and the growing desire of underage youth to attend concerts where alcohol was served. To prevent bartenders from serving alcohol to minors, clubs in Washington, D.C. began to mark the hands of those under 21 with large X’s. As a result, the X quickly became a symbol of the Straight Edge movement. The cover of the Teen Idles 1980 album “Minor Disturbance 7” showed a punk with his fists crossed, each marked with a large X. The X is often incorporated into tattoos. Ross Haenfler, author of “Straight Edge: Clean-living youth, hardcore punk, and social change” writes, “Tattoos virtually became an obsession,” in Straight Edge. Straight Edge is a diverse movement, but is often associated with political liberalism, veganism, and, occasionally, militancy. “Hate Edge” is a subset of Straight Edge typified by hatred towards alcohol and drugs that sometimes manifests itself in violent ways. Still, most straightedge associates socialize with many different groups of people. Riley is a prime example. Though he adopts Straight Edge values and does not drink or do illegal drugs, he does not claim Straight Edge. Other members of his band, however, do choose to align themselves with the movement. Emily King ’09 lived in eight different states before coming to Davidson, but had never heard of Straight Edge. “I’ve known people who share similar values, but I never knew some groups labeled themselves [as] ‘Straight Edge.’ I think it’s very interesting,” she said. Riley claims Davidson College does not offer enough opportunities for straightedge youth to interact or socialize. This, combined with the college’s reputation and suburban location, dissuades Straight Edge and other similar groups from choosing Davidson. Furthermore, many students have misconceptions about Straight Edge. One Davidson student believes Straight Edge youth are not present at Davidson because, “Davidson is an academic institution.” Learn more about the Straight Edge movement by attending one of Lowbrow’s next shows. The group will perform at The Rosemont in Charlotte April 1.

The doors
Wed. 3/25
4:30 pm Visiting
Thur. 3/26
Noon - 1 pm
7 pm Speaker:
6 pm Enjoy Latin
Fri. 3/27
2:00 pm “Company,”
4:30 pm 22nd Freder-
Sat. 3/28
4 pm Next Thomson Dis-
STINT Professor of
Q&A w/ campus dietitian,
Michael “Mykee”
dance and music
Duke Performance
ick Womble Speas Sym-
tinguished Visiting Pro-
Sociology for Fall ’09
Mattias Strandh
Commons
Fowlin, 900 rm.
in Charlotte
Hall.
posium: “Addiction”
fessor of Environmental
Dr. Mattias Strandh
OLAS! Presented by
Studies to Lecture
will speak about his
6 - 7:30 PM
8:00 pm “Company,”
The Carolina's Latin
3 pm Choral Concert,
7:30 pm Davidson Col-
Dr. Mart Stewart, profes-
course, “Sociology of
Eat free ice cream and
Duke Performance
Dance Company.
St. Albans Church
lege Flute Choir
sor of history at Western
Unemployment”
chat about the big O!
Hall.
Depart Rich circle.
Tyler-Tallman Hall
Washington University,
Alvarez 302
5:30 - 8 pm Pancake
will lecture on ‘“Environ-
7:30 pm Showing of
10 pm Cartoon
8:00 pm “Company,”
Supper at Toast. The
10 pm Davidson
Show,
mental Justice: The Ori-
“The Siamese Con-
7:30 pm Movie Night:
Disney
Duke Perf. Hall.
field hockey and vol-
900 rm
gins of African American
nection” and “Field of
Witchcraft Lecture,
Mania
leyball teams host an
Environmentalism.”
Stone.” 900 rm.
Duke Prof. Thomas Ro-
9 pm BSC Mood-
all you can eat Pan-
bisheaux, Chambers 2164
swings. Email lacraw-
cake Supper. Tickets:
7:30 pm Senior Recit-
ford@davidson.edu
$8 in advance, $10 at
al: Peter Hansel, piano,
8:00 pm “Company”
door.
Tyler-Tallman Hall
Main-stage musical
Duke
10 pm Davidson Col-
Performance Hall.
lege Comedy Explo-
7- 8:30 pm
11 pm Outpost Trivia:
sion, 900 rm.
Faith & Mental Health
International Theme,
10 pm Live.Thursdays:
Panel Discussion hosted by DIA
Waylen Roche & Friends
Sprinkle Room