6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

BEN IRELAND
Senior Staff Writer

Each week Vail Commons puts together seven theme tables, allowing students, faculty, and staff the opportunity to perfect their language
skills, pick up a new lingo, or just unwind from a busy school day. This year’s international students, along with
Davidson’s language professors, will always be at their respective tables to engage in friendly conversation. Though the majority of the
tables are for foreign languages, there are also two non-language tables. Don’t have a meal plan? Simply ask for a
meal ticket, and you’re on your way in!

The W Course table is supervised by Dr. Hillard and held Wednesdays during lunch. Students who are currently enrolled in
a freshman-level writing-intensive course (W-course) can enjoy learning more about the nature of their particular class and the importance of
building a solid foundation in writing to guarantee success in their future Davidson courses.

During Friday’s lunch, Dr. Sarafova hosts the Biology table. Dr. Sarafova, a theme table veteran who enjoys helping with both
the Biology and Russian tables, gives a little taste of what goes on at the Biology table. “Our table aims
to provide informal interaction between students and biology professors as well as between students from different years,” said Sarafova. “As
a professor, I enjoy learning about the numerous talents my students have outside the classroom. I think this activity brings
the entire department closer together.”

The French department also has a table. They meet Thursdays from 5:30-7:00. Even if it’s just to say a friendly
“Bonjour,” you’ll see that the French table will warmly welcome you to join in on the fun. The table’s representative,
Anais Perussault, is an international student who hails from Chateau-Rouge, France. She enjoys the friendly ambiance of la table française.
“It’s a great time to make friends with new people even if those who come don’t necessarily speak French,” said
Perussault. “Plus, I love hearing French in an American accent!”

Dr. Maiz-Pena supervises the Spanish table on Fridays from 12:00-2:00. There is no doubt that knowing even a little Spanish
can be useful in fields such as medicine and law. Come join the Spanish table at the first long table
on the right side of Commons to chat with international student Marina Coma of Madrid. The many native speakers and
the Spanish professors at the table are always delighted to see students and new faces.

Join Dr. Charlie Shen at the Chinese table, also during Friday’s lunch period. The biggest of all, the Chinese table,
which can always be found towards the far end of Commons, encourages all to pick up the world’s most spoken
language. “We’re very proud to be the biggest table at Commons,” said Shen. “It’s very nice to see students who
come and talk to us while having a good time. It’s quite relaxing.” Ms. Li, this year’s Chinese department fellow,
is also there to engage with students over some lunch.

Ever wonder what the word stammtisch means? Come join Dr. Henke and the German students to talk about German culture,
language, music, cuisine, and much more every Tuesday from 11:30 to 1.

Russian Table
Supervisor: Dr. Ewington
When: Tuesday; 12:30-1:30

International student Georgy Khabarovskiy from Obninsk, Russia, will always welcome you with a smile at the Russian table even if
you may not speak his mother tongue. In fact, most students frequent the Russian table for a hearty laugh and
some good old Russian humor. “Even though at first I couldn’t follow Russian too easily, now I’m having a better
command of the spoken language,” said Luke Heil ’12. “What’s just as cool is seeing all the Russian-speaking students getting
together during lunch.” The Russian table is overseen by Dr. Ewington every Tuesday from 12:30 to 1:30.

The next time you feel like adding a little flavor to your typical Commons routine, feel free to grab a
seat at any one of these tables.

Biblical multimedia art
COURTNEY TOBE
Staff Writer

When I look at a blank canvas I see it for nothing other than what it physically is: a 16
by 20 inch piece of cloth stretched over a wooden frame. An artistic mind, however, sees a blank canvas in
a very different way. Lauren Calve, a senior art major from Burke, Virginia, isable to see the life of her
painting in a blank canvas before she even makes her first brush stroke. Calve discovered her profound artistic vision at
a very young age. She began taking private art lessons in the fifth grade and quickly started receiving commissions for
her work. “That’s when I got more serious and I realized it was something I loved to do,” Calve said.
Calve continued taking art classes in high school and committed to seriously studying it in college by declaring art as
her major. Calve displayed her newest technique of multimedia design in her Textured World exhibit that went up last week.
The exhibit consisted of seven paintings inspired by her religion class, The Exodus Tradition. “The book of Exodus in the
Bible has a lot of inspirational stories with a lot of cool imagery,” said Calve. “My faith really influences my
artwork. Painting is such an introspective activity; it requires me to search inside of myself.”

Fri. 2/20
Musical Interludes: Dylan Savage, piano 12:30 p.m. Tyler-Tallman
Tea Time Discussion China and India 3:30 p.m. RSVP by Thur. at 5 p.m.
Symphony Orchestra 7:30 p.m. Duke Hall
Ghost Sonata 7:30 p.m.
Ghost Sonata 7:30

All of Calve’s experimentation led to her recent creation of collagraphs, a printmaking technique that incorporates different materials such as
plaster, stucco, and acrylic mediums onto a mixed media board that is then inked up and imprinted onto a piece
of paper. “I’m really enjoying creating the collagraphs because everything I’ve been exploring has led me to this printmaking process,”
said Calve. “I feel like I am going in a direction.” Calve believes that her collagraphs reveal her progression as
an artist. “I’m more able to take risks. There is an element of accident and I’m not so attached to
the art object as I am to the process or experience. Whatever ends up, I’m pleased with it because of
the process it took to get me there. I’m no longer afraid to show the aspects that come out subconsciously,”
she said. Calve’s collagraphs will be on display in her senior show this April. After graduating this spring, Calve plans
on continuing her exploration with art. She is particularly interested in pursuing art therapy as a career because it would
allow her to explore the transformative aspect of art. “I am fascinated by art’s capability to educate people and change
people’s way of viewing the world,” said Calve. “What greater purpose of art is there but to educate or change
people? I’d like to think that’s why I make art.”

Sat. 2/21
First Annual Davidson Women’s Leadership Conference 8:30 a.m. in Lilley Family Gallery. Registration is required.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2009

Staff Writers

Another Valentine’s Day has come and gone. And while some of us are left with memories of boxes of chocolate,
fragrant flowers, and dinners at Restaurant X, others among us have memories of a different sort. We now present you
with Davidson’s very own Valentine’s Day Hall of Fame.

One sophomore girl had a relationship with a sophomore boy, leaning more toward the weekend-physical than the weekday-emotional. Running late
for AT last Valentine’s Day, she heard a knock at her door, and there was her Patterson Court heartthrob holding
flowers and a card. Expecting her to already be at AT, where he himself was headed, this shocked boy merely
said, “These are for you!” The two then proceeded to take the gruelingly awkward walk to AT session where they
continued the awkwardness for fifty minutes.

A current sophomore was eagerly anticipating her first V-Day with her new boyfriend. Hurrying to school on the 14th, she
would not have been surprised to see roses and balloons ornamenting her locker. Instead, she was faced with her boyfriend’s
empty hands and a simple explanation. Blinded by young love, she accepted his excuse that he forgot presents. He promised
that the missing gifts were fabulous and that she would receive them the next day. The girl was not disappointed;
she got some great stuff. And her boyfriend got it all for a great price. Proud of his accomplishments, he
couldn’t help but express his excitement; his girlfriend got all the same presents the other girls received, but for half
the price. Later, this dejected girl discovered it was true love, after all. The economic and emotional demands of the
Hallmark holiday were just too much to bear for this boy. Valentine’s Day, though traditionally dedicated to love, can also
bring heartache.

Sun. 2/22
Labyrinth now open in Hobart Park.

Mon. 2/23
Career Services Image Management Workshop 10 a.m.
Ghost Sonata 2 p.m.

Tue. 2/24
Career Services Networking for Success Workshop Noon
CIAA Metrolina Career Fair Information Session 2 p.m.
Wilderness Ventures Information Session 6 p.m.
Cavatina Duo Tyler-Tallman Hall 7:30 p.m. Free for students but ticket required.
