ADMITTED CLASS OF 2013
See the complete list of names. PAGES 5-8

DANCE ENSEMBLE ELECTRIFIES
Collaboration allows for unique performances.
see ARTS, page 9

“TURANDOT” MASTERPIECE
Bold set and costume designs stun in Opera Carolina production.
see ARTS, page 9

TENNIS TEAMS FALTER IN ADVANCE OF SOCON TOURNEY
Men fall to 6-16 on season. Women finish at 11-11. Both teams will travel to Elon this weekend for the
conference championships.
see SPORTS, page 15

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2009
www.thedavidsonian.com
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 23

Admissions aims for 490 to join Class of 2013
ANNA STOCKAMORE
Staff Writer

The whirlwind of students and parents on campus for Decision Davidson last weekend served as a reminder that the Davidson
community will welcome 490 fresh faces to campus next August. This year the College admitted 848 students and those accepted
through regular decision have until May 1 to accept the offer. Despite the greater number of applicants, “The standards of
acceptance remain the same,” Vice President and Dean of Admission and Financial Aid Christopher Gruber said.

The Class of 2012 brought 482 Davidsonians to campus last fall, so the school expects a modest increase in class
size of eight additional students. Between early and regular decision commitments, the College has secured over 50 percent of its
490 target to date. Currently, 260 students have enrolled with 213 of those committed through binding Early Decision. While the
number of students who were admitted and have decided to enroll through Early Decision is slightly higher than in the
past, Dean Gruber affirmed that this Early Decision pool is high in quality and consists of a group of students
who represent priorities important to the College. These include a large group of international students, legacies, and recruited athletes.

Dean Gruber applauded the Davidson coaches for doing an “especially fabulous job in recruiting early this year,” and commented that
the number of athletes who have signed and committed early has largely increased. With the current economic state, the college
expected this greater number of Early Decision students committing to the college, which has also benefitted the school in receiving
a greater number of deposits earlier in the year.

Even with the economic difficulties facing the college, Dean Gruber stated, “Davidson is need-blind,” meaning that it does not take
into consideration the financial situations of families before deciding on admitting students. Not only was there a significant increase in
the number of financial aid applications, there was also an increase in the amount of money needed by these students
to meet the cost of college.

Because of the increased number of admitted students last year, the college did not offer any students admittance off the
waitlist. But this year, planning to build a class of 490, Dean Gruber stated that the college hopes to utilize
the waitlist.

Trash talks
EAC to perform recycling audit
ANDREW EVANS
Staff Writer

Davidson College will find out how much trash it is wasting. On April 23 in the Union Parking Lot, the
Physical Plant, in conjunction with the Environmental Action Coalition, will conduct a recycling audit from 3 to 5 p.m. Students
who attend will find out what can be recycled and how much potentially recyclable material the campus community throws away.
They can search through the trash personally, exploring firsthand the types of trash that the community throws away.

The Recycling Audit is a yearly event. “In an effort to recycle and reduce the amount of waste we generate,
we first need to know what we are throwing away,” says the Recycling Audit page on the Davidson College website.
The trash is collected, sorted, and then categorized by type, and the “college strives to improve these ratios [of recyclable
to non-recyclable trash] through education.”and awareness programs.” “Also, it helps Physical Plant and the sustainability [organizations on campus] get data
on the recycling we do on campus,” Claire Naisby, '12, president of EAC, said.

The Recycling Audit, according to Naisby, “connects us with Physical Plant,” allowing them to work together on improving ways to
recycle and create a more sustainable environment on campus. Based on the results, Physical Plant can determine “whether [the recycling
effort] needs revamping, more bins, etc.,” Naisby said. “The data we collect determines the level and what type of action
we need to take to increase recycling on campus.”

This is the second Recycling Audit during the 2008-2009 school year. The first one took place in November and showed
that the school recycled 42 percent more than last year, but 19 percent of the trash could have still been
recycled, according to Naisby. According to the Recycling Audit webpage, 632 pounds of trash were collected, sorted, and categorized, and
of those 632 pounds, 119 were recovered as recyclables.

See EAC, page 2

waitlist in order to access additional traits that Davidson is looking for in molding the class of 2013. With Decision
Davidson taking place a week late due to the late Easter break and other extenuating circumstances, the major scholarship competitions
have not been decided, and other strong candidates looking at the college still have not made their decisions. Currently, only
47 students from the Regular Decision pool have committed to Davidson, and therefore the college has been unable to do
an analysis of the incoming class from regular decision.

Dean Gruber said, “every admittance is extremely intentional. The college looks for students who can not only survive but thrive
in the Davidson environment, and, as the current students do, can benefit the college in a phenomenal way.”

Seniors get fiscally fit
Kelly Beccs
Staff Writer

On Saturday morning, members of the Class of 2009 got out of bed early to train for a particularly daunting
event: entering the real world. From 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., Associate Professor of Economics Ben Baker and former Davidson
President Bobby Vagt supplemented Davidson’s Liberal Arts Education with practical financial skills for Davidson seniors, coaching them in “Fiscal Fitness.”

Vagt and Baker started “Fiscal Fitness” in 1997 when a group of seniors showed up at then-President Vagt’s office late
one night fretting about their survival chances outside of the Davidson bubble. Especially with this year’s economic atmosphere, the typical
anxiety of the graduating class is present. How to pay taxes, how to budget, how to get insurance, how to
build credit, how to get loans, how to invest, and how to buy a car were among the topics discussed
in Tomlinson’s conference room, but Vagt said that the main purpose of the program is to inspire confidence, to show
seniors “that you can do it.”

Professor Baker kicked off the program with the morning session, covering taxes and budgeting. Terms like “modified adjusted gross income”
and “linear reduction” are enough to make any non-Economics or Mathematics major go running, but Baker maintained a sense of
humor throughout his explanations. He asked seniors what they would do if they didn’t have enough money to pay their
taxes, asserting, “Don’t call your parents...it’s YOYO time” (translation: you’re on your own). However, he urged students, “Live your life.
Don’t live your life around taxes.”

Baker also showed how to create a cash flow budget. The room showed united disapproval of Baker’s meager clothing allowance,
letting out a collective groan when, despite Baker’s fashion frugality, the net cash flow equaled zero. When a student asked
Professor Baker for his recommendation for

See Fitness, page 4
