10 The DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Women’s Basketball: The Pure Game

Ashley Lax shot 87.3 percent from the foul line and over 41 percent from behind the three-point line for the
Wildcats during the 2008-2009 season. Women’s basketball continues to grow in popularity and carve its own niche in the basketball
world.

Curtis YOUNG
Staff Writer

Each April, the sports world buzzes with talk of the NCAA Final Four, the Masters, and the beginning of the
new baseball season. And rightfully so. For many sports fans, this time of year represents the pinnacle of our viewing
experience. Many fans treat the Final Four as a holiday, taking off work in order to watch the top teams
in the nation collide one last time. Lost in the shuffle, however, is a sport that provides much of the
same action and drama, with very little of the fanfare: NCAA Women’s Basketball.

I must admit that I have long been in the camp that would immediately turn off the television or change
the channel when women’s basketball appeared on the screen. Despite being a basketball fanatic, I loathed the women’s game. While
I still believe that the WNBA has botched its marketing and become a watered-down, less exciting version of the NBA,
I have grown to really enjoy the women’s game in college. Unfortunately, men’s college hoops have become increasingly similar to
the NBA. Players are allowed to travel at will, and the game revolves around athletes, dunks, excessive physicality, and showmanship.
Fundamentals are taking a back seat to raw athleticism and power, at least in the upper echelon of the men’s
game. This is truly a shame.

The women’s game has become one of the few television outlets for basketball purists that would prefer to see a
perfectly executed backdoor cut than an overpowering dunk. It is a chance to watch remarkable athletes play a beautiful game.
Unfortunately, we have not gotten to see much of that. Women’s basketball has provided an outlet for the basketball purist
in me. While dunks happen in women’s basketball, they are few and far between. Instead, players are forced to finish
with both hands with nifty moves around the hoop. I enjoy watching that far more than a freakish athlete throwing
down a thunderous slam.

The men are still fun to watch. Bracket fever sweeps the country, and the men’s NCAA Tournament is still the
greatest spectacle in sports. But, the women’s game has begun to carve its niche in the college basketball world. In
many cases, it has even become a more enjoyable game for basketball purists to watch. Try watching a women’s game
this week. I promise that you won’t see a LeBron James “crab dribble” or any player take it from 25
feet in for a layup while only dribbling once, a la Kyle Singler in Duke’s Sweet Sixteen loss to Villanova
(even worse, the commentators lauded his “move,” which consisted of one dribble and five steps). You will see fundamental, exciting,
and solid basketball. Who knows, maybe you’ll even enjoy it as I have grown to.

I am also not saying that the men’s game has lost all of its allure. It hasn’t. I am saying
that the women’s game has become worth watching in the face of the growing sloppiness of men’s college basketball. Make
it a point to watch the women’s team from the University of Connecticut play over the next week. The Huskies
have yet to lose a game this season (barring a monumental upset between the time I write this article and
the time you read it) and in fact have yet to have even a single-digit margin of victory. UConn has
the best talent in the country by along shot. But that is not why they are worth watching. The Huskies
switch defenses constantly. They consistently move on offense and make the extra pass to find the open shooter. They understand
when to push the ball up the floor and when to hold back and run a set play. While college
men have idolized NBA players and try to emulate them with inferior talent, women see the college game as the
epitome of their playing experience. Only in extremely rare cases do women leave early to play professionally. The same Connecticut
team that has, along with Tennessee, dominated the women’s game for the past decade has graduated every single one of
its athletes. That, in itself, is remarkable. Contrast that with UConn’s men’s team, which boasts a graduation rate of thirty-three
percent. I have become somewhat disillusioned with how the men’s game is played and officiated. I do not pay to
watch a football game played on hardwood floors. Instead, I pay to watch a basketball game, not a dunk on
a breakaway.

Baseball, from page 12

Davidson did not fare as well in their loss to Appalachian State 15-5 in the second game. Appalachian rode a
six-run seventh inning to blow out the Wildcats on the road. Davidson churned through eight pitchers in the game. Mac
Read ’11 was the pitcher to complete a run-less inning. Chris Kennedy made the start, making it through only three
innings while giving up four runs on six hits to the big-swinging Mountaineer lineup. Chase Fitzpatrick and Brady continued to
hit well. Fitzpatrick went two for three with three runs and Brady went two for three with one run and
two RBIs to lead the offensive attack for Davidson. After the weekend series, Davidson traveled to face the fifth-ranked University
of North Carolina Tar Heels at Chapel Hill on Tuesday. The ’Cats lost 9-4 in a hard-fought game. This challenging
game moved their overall record to 10-12 (5-4 in conference).

Wildcat Roundup

Baseball (10-12, 5-4)
Results:
3/27-3/29 vs. App. State W 9-8
3/28 vs. UNCG L 2-5
3/29 vs. App. State L 5-15
3/31 @ No. 5 UNC L 4-9
Next Up:
4/1 vs. Elon
4/4 @ CofC
4/5 @ Ga. Southern

Golf
Results:
3/27-3/29 Furman Intercollegiate 15th place
Next Up:
4/3 Marshall Invitational
4/3-4/6 @ Samford
Notes:
Michael Saari ’09 recorded a two-day score of 154 on his way to a 35th place in the Furman Intercollegiate
over the weekend.

Men’s Tennis (5-10, 1-3)
Results:
3/29 vs. App. State W 9-8
Next Up:
4/1 vs. Elon
4/3-4/6 @ Samford
Notes:
Following a split with Appalachian State in a rain-shortened SoCon series, the Wildcats are in fifth place in the standings
heading into an important conference series at Samford. The ’Cats hope to end their three-game losing streak as they continue
their conference schedule with three SoCon matches this week.

Danny Weiss ’11 went 3 for 4 at the plate including a three-run home run in the fifth inning during
the Wildcats’ 9-8 victory over Appalachian State on Sunday.

Lacrosse (5-6)
Results:
3/28 @ Lehigh L 4-18
Next Up:
4/4 @ Navy
Notes:
The injury-plagued Wildcats fell under .500 for the first time this year with the loss to Lehigh.

Track and Field
Results:
3/28 Weems Baskin Relays @ University of South Carolina Cancelled- Rain
Next Up:
4/3 Duke Invitational
4/4 Liberty Collegiate Invitational
Notes:
The Weems Baskin Relays were cancelled due to rain over the weekend.

Women’s Tennis (9-8, 4-2)
Results:
3/27 vs. Cal State W 7-0
3/28 @ Chattanooga W 4-3
3/29 @ Samford W 4-3
Next Up:
4/1 vs. UNCG
4/3 vs. Charlotte
4/7 vs. App. State
Notes:
The Wildcats moved up to 4th place in the SoCon standings with an impressive 3-0 week.
