THE DAVIDSONIAN

1 pm: Take Back the Night, Lilly Gallery
7:30 pm: “Sabbath Environmentalism” lecture by Norman Wirzba, Sprinkle Rm
8 pm: Film Festival: “Yes Man,” Belk Lawn
10 pm: Davidson Outdoors sponsors “Into the Wild” screening, 900 Room
11 pm: Outpost Trivia Night, TV Show theme

Arts & LIVING
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2009

Thur. 4/2
10:30-3 pm: Health Fair, Union Atrium
6 pm: April Lake: Luau, Lake
4:30 pm: “Death, Destruction and the Afterlife” lecture by Eric Olson, Chambers 3155
7:30 pm: “Company,” Duke Performance Hall
8 pm: Film Festival: “Twilight,” Belk Lawn
10 pm: Live Thursdays, Waylen Roche and Matt Hayes, 900 Room

Carey LEIGH EVANS
Staff Writer

The Davidson College French Department hosts The Tournées Festival this week, a program provided by the French American Cultural Exchange
(FACE) that brings contemporary French cinema to college campuses. This festival began on the Davidson campus on Monday and will
continue until Sunday, April 5th. The Tournées Festival accepts applications from numerous campuses and awards grants to the winners. Every
year, FACE awards roughly $180,000 in grants. Davidson College received funds to show six films and host one round table
discussion. This is the first time Davidson has received the honor to host this prestigious festival.

Davidson French Department professor and contact for the event, Dr. Caroline Beschea-Fache, opened the week of films on Monday in
the 900 Room. Following her introduction was a screening of “Le Grand Voyage,” released in 2004. Though numerous films were
released this year, FACE also offers an alternative list with earlier choices. As it is Davidson's first year to host,
the Davidson College French Department, Ethnic Studies Program, and the French Club chose a variety of films from the past
several years with the hopes of providing a diverse selection.

Tonight, in CHAM 3155 at 7 pm, the festival will continue with a showing of “Lili et le Baobab,” released
in 2006. “Lili, a thirty-three-year-old French photographer, accepts an assignment to photograph the remote village of Agman, in the Senegalese
desert. It is the first time she has set foot in Africa.” Tomorrow, Dr. David Pettersen will introduce the screening
of “Faat Kine,” a 2001 release, in Hance Auditorium at 7 pm. This film was produced in both the languages
of Wolof and French. “When Kine, a gas-station manager in present-day Senegal, realizes that she is financially unable to provide
for her two college-age children’s desired European travel and study, she starts to reevaluate her own life of dreams deferred
and achievement denied.”

On Friday at 10 am, Professor Slawy-Sutton will host a Round-Table discussion on Women in Africa. Because seating is limited,
please contact Dr. Beschea-Fache to reserve a spot. That evening at 7 pm, “Frantz Fanon: sa vie, son combat, son
travail,” will be shown in Hance Auditorium. “Frantz Fanon was a psychiatrist, originally from Martinique, who became a spokesman for
the Algerian revolution against French colonialism. During the Second World War, he volunteered as a soldier to help France, ‘the
Mother Country,’ against the Nazis. Embittered by his experience with racism in the French Army, he gravitated to the radical
politics, Sartrean existentialism, and the philosophy of black consciousness known as négritude.”

On April 4th, the screenings continue with a film from this year titled “Rêves de Poussière.” The film can be
viewed in CHAM 3155 at 7 in the evening. “Mocktar, a Nigerian peasant who lost his entire family in a
terrible accident, tries to rebuild his life. He goes to Essakane, a dusty gold mine in Northeast Burkina Faso, to
look for work and to forget the past that haunts him.” Professor Nancy Fairley will close the festival on April
5th at 7 pm in the 900 Room. The final screening will be “Daratt,” a 2006 film in both Arabic
and French. “When the long and devastating civil war in Chad ends, survivors are hoping that justice will be served
against those who were involved in the genocide. The Truth and Reconciliation Commission, however, chooses not to condemn them. Young
Atim, whose father was murdered during the conflict, is given a gun by his blind grandfather and ordered to avenge
his family.”

All of the events listed are free and open to the public. The Tournées Festival was made possible with the
support of the Cultural Services of the French Embassy and the French Ministry of Culture (CNC), the Florence Gould Foundation,
the Grand Marnier Foundation,highbrow entertainment, agnés b., the Franco-American Cultural Fund, Davidson College French Department, Ethnic Studies Program, and the
French Club. For more information, contact Dr. Caroline Beschea-Fache at 704.894.2356.

Missing ferret watch

OE BALACONIS
Arts & Living Editor

His name is Eugene, and he is covered in fur. I must admit, I know little else of this slinky
mammal whom I never even met. Looking at this photograph (at right) I wonder, what could be going on behind
that deep, black eye? What could he be feeling when he hears the bell of Chambers ring out across the
verdant lawn each day? Pondering these questions of the ferret’s psyche is futile, but I only want to know what
caused this mysterious, but beloved, fellow to flee.

“He was always such a quiet guy, never would’ve suspected him to go so sudden,” reveals one of Eugene’s neighbors,
who has chosen not to be identified. Eugene disappeared just days ago, but has been seen around campus, moving quickly
between shadows. He responds only to the sound of a recorder and the smell of peanut butter. Contact the Davidsonian
with any information concerning sightings.

Eugene is missing and suspected to be lurking around campus. He was last seen near Belk Lab, but could not
enter; he has no cat card.

Jim Fuller's career-long track record of achieving successful results for his clients has earned him recognition throughout NC and among
his peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named to the Best Lawyers in America publication consistently for
the past 23 years and was recently named as one of the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North
Carolina. As a former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the
state for his commitment to justice and his exceptional litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience, he has dedicated
his legal practice to helping people who have been injured by the negligent or criminal conduct of others. Jim and
his wife Joan live in Spinnaker Cove and attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A member of the Lions Club,
Jim also serves on the boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and
was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

APPEALS * BANKRUPTCY * BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS * ESTATE PLANNING

Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home

Prosser D. “Sandy” Carnegie has spent almost 30 years representing clients who have suffered substantial injuries due to another person’s
negligence or criminal conduct, always with the client’s best interest above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas
of the law including contract preparation and review, residential and commercial closings, land development and acquisition as well as zoning.
Sandy is licensed to practice before all state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia. In addition to his
many responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community. Sandy, a Davidson native, and
his wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy
served many years as a commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town of Davidson committees, he
is a member of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of Williams Masonic Lodge #176, A.F. & A.M., and
has coached youth football, basketball, and baseball in the Davidson, Cornelius, and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION * PERSONAL INJURY
REAL ESTATE * WILLS & TRUSTS

209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill)
Davidson, NC 28036 * (704) 892-1699
www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

Campus

8 pm: “Company,” Duke Performance Hall
9-4: Greenstock
1 pm: April at the Lake: Inflatables and Food, Lake Campus
8 pm: “Company,” Duke Hall
9 pm: Film Festival: “Milk,” Belk Lawn
9 pm: Film Festival: “Slumdog Millionaire,” Belk Lawn

AFTER MIDNIGHT WITH FREE QDOBA
Salsa Lessons: 11:30 pm - midnight
Food: Midnight - 2:30 AM Union Atrium

Sun. 4/5
7:30 pm: “Lied-abend,” musical students perform song selections, Tyler-Tallman Hall

Mon. 4/6

Tue. 4/7
7:30 pm: “Playing Hide and Seek,” play by David Palko for Honors Thesis, Tyler-Tallman Hall
7:30 pm: History Forum, “Colonel Despard goes Mad in Honduras...,” 900 Room
10 pm: The Davidson Show, 900 Room
10 pm: 21 Year Old Night, 900 Room
