The Davidsonian

Editors-in-Chief
Katherine Miller & Brian Moran

Managing Editor
Kate Kelly

News Editors
Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood

Perspectives Editors
Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris

Arts & Living Editors
Zoe Balaconis & Jennifer Gambrell

Yow! Editor
Alex Greening

Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis

Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Nami Patel

Business & Circulation Managers
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright

Online Editor
Greg Newman

Content Manager
Kelly Beggs

Assistant Copy Editor
Alex Kowaleski

Photography Staff
Bill King, Aaron Robinson & Laney Schenck

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to:
The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez
College Union. Opinions expressed in articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Only
the staff editorials represent the views of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Email
Jordan Wall at jowall@davidson.edu for advertising inquiries.

sin cera

What happens when a society demonizes its heroes and honors its villains? The United States is on the road to
find out. In November 2005, a report came out of Iraq that U.S. Marines had killed 15 civilians without provocation.
Pennsylvania Representative John Murtha immediately jumped on the story but not to defend the Marines. Instead, Murtha went on national
news programs, before any trial or investigation was conducted, saying that the Marines, “overreacted because of the pressure on them
and they killed innocent civilians in cold blood, and that’s what the report is going to say.” The report does
not say that. Eight Marines were charged with crimes for their actions that day. All but one had their charges
dropped or were acquitted. The last Marine is still waiting for his day in court. It seems as if the
Marines are not deranged savages lusting for blood, but just men to whom the country owes a great deal.

Thus, what does the Department of the Navy decide to do about John Murtha? Do they call for his resignation?
Do they demand a public apology? Do they protect the honor and lives of their Marines? No. They do something
a Marine would never do: hang a comrade out to dry. Rather than defending the few and the proud, the
Department of the Navy chose instead to award John Murtha the Navy’s highest civilian recognition: The Department of the Navy
Distinguished Public Service Award. In early March, just before he handed over his post, Secretary of the Navy, Donald C.
Winter, bestowed the award on Murtha with a citation that reads in part, “[John Murtha’s] courageous leadership, vision and loyalty
to the men and women of the Department of the Navy greatly contributed to their quality of life.” Did John
Murtha show leadership when he slandered Marines? Did John Murtha show vision when he rushed to talk shows without knowing
the truth? Did John Murtha show loyalty when he chose to believe the enemy’s account rather than the soldiers protecting
him?

Contrast John Murtha with men who actually have shown leadership, vision, loyalty and much more. March 25 (the date the
first Medal of Honor was awarded in 1863) is National Medal of Honor Day. It is a day in which
the United States honors those that have demonstrated unbelievable, extraordinary bravery and self-sacrifice even in the face of certain death.
Only 3,445 men have demonstrated this kind of action. Nineteen of those men demonstrated that kind of action twice. There
are currently only 98 living Medal of Honor recipients. The battles in Afghanistan and Iraq have produced five Medal of
Honor recipients, but they were all awarded posthumously.

What kind of man displays such courage? A man who believes in the greatness of the United States of America.
A man who refuses to accept that evil has a place in this world. A man who gets a foul
taste in his mouth when he sees someone else bearing his burden. A man who will not, cannot, let a
fellow soldier die as long as he is still breathing. These are men who not only know the difference between
right and wrong, but also live as if it matters. These are men who have stared evil in the face
and never blinked. These are men who ask for nothing but give everything. These are men who should be thought
about not just on March 25, but every time you feel freedom’s breath.

Bobby DesPain ’11 is undeclared. He is from St. Louis, Mo. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.

Cap-and-trade is climate’s best hope

In his address to Congress in February, Barack...Obama laid out three big domestic priorities that he intends to push in
his first year in office: health care reform, education reform, and a cap-and-trade system that would reduce American carbon emissions
in order to stop or mitigate catastrophic climate change. Simply put, a cap-and-trade bill requires businesses that emit carbon to
purchase permits at a national auction to allow their emission of greenhouse gases. Firms could then sell the permits if
they found a greener way to run their business and no longer needed to emit so much carbon. The number
of permits auctioned would fall over time. The revenue from the auction of these permits could then be rebated back
to taxpayers or used to fund green investments in clean power generation, public transit, and so forth, leading to an
efficient, market-friendly reduction in carbon emissions.

Unfortunately for us and our descendants, cap-and-trade legislation is the most important and urgent of these initiatives yet the least
likely to pass. Over the past year, scientists studying climate change and its potential effects have become more and more
panicked as increases in CO2 levels, glacial melting, and sea level have been at or above the worst-case scenarios of
their previous predictions. The 2007 report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), a huge international collaboration of climate
scientists, predicted sea level rises of 18 to 59 centimeters by 2100. This year’s international panel in Copenhagen predicted a
minimum of 50 centimeters with a maximum of over a meter. This kind of change would be utterly catastrophic, flooding
vast areas and creating millions of refugees. Similarly, the distortions of weather patterns that such warming would cause have already
begun. We are only now coming out of a once-in-a-century drought here in the American Southeast, and Australia is still
experiencing a drought, which began in 2007, that has reduced its food output by 30 percent, the worst drought on
record for that country. A number of climate models suggest that this isn’t an aberration but the beginning of a
permanently arid climate that would render today’s farmland tomorrow’s desert.

The situation is so important now because there is a critical mass of CO2 in the atmosphere that will make
further warming inevitable. If the atmospheric concentration of CO2 exceeds approximately 500 ppm, feedback loops will exacerbate global warming through
the melting of permafrost and the desertification of previously arable land, thereby releasing more CO2 into the atmosphere. These feedback
effects could push the CO2 level to an intolerable 800 to 1000 ppm at which point enormous and irrevocable changes
occur. Today, we are just shy of 390 ppm, and the level is increasing at around 2 ppm annually. Because
it will take years to reduce our carbon emissions and we will never eliminate them completely, we must take action
immediately to avoid that 500 ppm threshold.

Given all this, it’s hard to look at cap-and-trade’s prospects in Congress with anything but despair. While Obama is certainly
going to try to pass a cap-and-trade bill, he is prioritizing health care reform, the stimulus package, and his plan
to repair our financial system. While the Democrats will have a 59-seat majority in Congress once Al Franken is finally
seated, every major bill is filibustered by the minority in today’s Senate, so the bill won’t pass even if every
Democrat votes yes. While an obscure Senate process called Budget Reconciliation might circumvent the need for a supermajority of 60,
eight Democratic Senators, many of them from states with large fossil-fuel industries like Mary Landrieu’s Louisiana, wrote a letter to
Obama urging him not to pass cap-and-trade without giving Republicans a chance to filibuster.

Moreover, even if a cap-and-trade bill passes, there are a huge number of ways that it could be modified, rendering
it irrelevant. A cap-and-trade system, the best way to reduce carbon emissions in theory, will be partially or completely ineffective
if the cap is set too high, the carbon permits aren’t auctioned, or the bill leaves open loopholes for polluters
to exploit. Unsurprisingly, the oil and coal industry lobbyists are hard at work on creating these loopholes, and the Democratic
Chair of the Senate’s Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Jeff Bingaman, has preemptively ruled out a 100% auction of carbon
permits. Obama and a number of other lawmakers are working in good faith on this issue, so all this pessimism
may be unwarranted. Still, all of these signs illustrate that the U.S. Senate’s dysfunction and the irresponsibility of Republicans and
their pollution industry allies will prevent a real response to climate change; in turn, we are going to irreversibly damage
the world we live in because of it.

Zeke Webster ’09 is a political science major from Clemmons, N.C. Contact him at zewebster@davidson.edu.
