4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SGA approves new funding

FRANCISCO FIALLO
Staff Writer

During its meeting last Thursday, the Student Government Association (SGA) made preparations as student organizations begin submitting their Spring Allocation
requests for funding. The SGA also voted to allow the Cats Connect organization an SGA liaison, further integrating the program—which
pairs first-year students with upperclassmen—into the college community. Student organizations that use school funding for their operations must submit a
budget to the Activities Tax Council (ATC).

Groups can apply for different types of charters, each with requirements for membership levels, on-campus visibility, and unique mission. The
charters have strict budget ceilings along with unique privileges available to each organization. The most fundamental charter level, Provisional, allows
groups to recruit at the Student Activities Fair, advertise in the Crier, and reserve campus buildings.

Over the past few weeks, the Charters and Bylaws Committee of the SGA evaluated all chartered organizations and made recommendations
as to their charter status. The SGA received and approved those recommendations on Thursday; no student organizations received a charter
for a category lower than that which they applied for. The three student organizations that received Charter III-A status were
the SGA itself, the Davidsonian, and the Union Board.

Once an organization submits a budget to the ATC, it is reviewed by the council. Following SGA approval, that becomes
the organization’s budget for the following academic year. The ATC distributes most of the approximately $500,000 budget during the spring
period but retains some funds for emergency allocations and a fall allocation period. Remaining funds from student organizations are pooled
together and rolled over into the budget for the next academic year.

The ATC began receiving budgets and meeting with student organizations last Friday. In addition to the standard budget allocations, the
ATC also reserves $10,000 as part of the Improve Davidson Fund (IDF). Groups must apply for access to the fund,
which is given to special projects that serve the spirit of the college’s mission statement. Those proposals are read by
the ATC, which recommends what it considers to be the strongest.

This year, the ATC recommended a proposal written jointly by the college’s three a capella groups: The Generals, The Delilahs,
and Androgyny. The project would let the singers work with special needs children in area schools and hold singing workshops
with them. These workshops would culminate in a winter benefit concert where the children would perform alongside the a capella
groups. The SGA will vote to approve the IDF allocation next week.

In other news, the SGA took advantage of its new Charter III-A status to complete a year-old effort to add
the paid position of publicity chair to its rank. The SGA voted to add compensation for its publicity chair and
vice chair, who will receive compensation of $600 and $200 for the year, respectively. Those positions, which are currently unfilled,
are appointed by the SGA President. The publicity committee will be tasked with maintaining an SGA website, complete with blogs
and podcasts of SGA meetings, in addition to other responsibilities. Before the measure passed, the only paid positions within the
SGA were that of chancellor and treasurer.
