THE DAVIDSONIAN

Curriculum, from page 1

Faculty members earlier in the process to get as much timely feedback as possible, “about two-thirds of the faculty emphasized
globalization, diversity and inclusivity, and interdisciplinary studies as aspects they’d like Davidson to aim for.” The objectives described above reflect
those opinions.

“Davidson has never reviewed its Strategic Plan or its curriculum on such a broad scale, so this is a much
bigger process than anything we’ve ever done,” Swallow said. As is to be expected when institutions anticipate change, there are
some concerns about the Curricular Review, and more will probably arise. Yet “this is not a change in our core
values, and we will continue to affirm our commitment to honor, leadership, and service,” Green affirmed.

“People are always a little resistant to change,” SGA president-elect Meikaela Zwieryznksi ’10 said, “but the entire process is to
make Davidson better. This is a time for dialogue and getting feedback. Everyone is open to new ideas and to
genuinely look at what needs to change.”

To include students in this process, SGA is holding a series of Academic Policy Forums that students can attend to
learn more about the curriculum development plans. SGA encourages students to attend, because as Green said, “We have an up-to-date
opinion on what we need from Davidson, and we can help the college identify what we could do better to
strengthen our mission.”

ABERNETHY AWARDS ROUND 2 APPLICATIONS DUE: 2/27/09

Again this year, funds from the George L. Abernethy Endowment will be available to support worthy initiatives by current first-year,
sophomore, or junior students. Individual awards fall into one of the following categories:
1) Independent student research, either in the US or abroad.
2) Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year or the summer.

At the request of the donor, applications are limited to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences. Application
forms are available in the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283). Completed application forms are due
back in this office no later than 5:00 p.m. on Friday, February 27, 2009. The announcement of awards should occur
prior to the exam period of the spring semester.

FRANCISCO FIALLO
Staff Writer

In a meeting that was at times tense, the faculty Educational Policy Committee (EPC) met with the Student Government Association
(SGA). The central issue of the meeting involved the prospect of attaching cover letters to outgoing transcripts.

The SGA has passed three resolutions in the past academic year, each granting students the option of attaching a cover
letter that would (in its current form) include information about the college and statistical information about the GPAs of the
top decile and quartile in each class.

The EPC has yet to approve a cover letter; students currently may send a “class profile”—available at the Registrar’s office—separately
from their transcript. The class profile breaks down GPAs by quartile for a given class and includes some information about
the college and the number of students in each major.

The cover letter initiative began in response to data released last year that showed that Davidson had the lowest mean
GPA in a sample of 11 of its peer institutions. This information prompted concerns that the relatively low GPA of
Davidson students may limitTheir opportunities after graduation. Vice President of Academic Affairs and Dean of Faculty Clark Ross began the
meeting by saying that he saw it as an administrator’s responsibility to balance the interests of students, faculty, and future
students, while EPC member and Associate Professor of English Ann Fox was concerned about the substantive negative effects on students
who were not in the top quartile. She mentioned a hypothetical situation wherein students apply to the same job or
graduate school, but only one opts to submit the cover letter. There was also a concern over what Fox termed
the “rhetorical” implications of the cover letters. Independent Senator Severin Tucker ’09 pointed out that he was worried that the
cover letters reflected an emphasis on GPA and a need to communicate how “hard” Davidson is to those not familiar
with it.

Associate Professor of Russian Amanda Ewington mentioned that letters of recommendation should communicate the culture of Davidson and the quality
of students in more detail than a cover letter could. Fox also mentioned that there was no clear evidence that
students were suffering as a result of their relatively low GPAs, to which students responded that many graduate and professional
schools have firm GPA cutoffs for applicants. Registrar Hansford Epes ’61 pointed out that such GPA cutoffs exist to minimize
the reading employers and admissions committees would have to do; therefore, there is no indication that a cover letter would
be read or would then excuse a GPA that was below the cutoff. Epes also described other practical concerns with
cover letters and how they might be perceived in the real world. In particular, Epes was concerned that a cover
letter from Davidson would have the same effect as “an excellent book-jacket blurb written by the author’s brother-in-law.” No action
on the issue was taken, though the topic will be revisited in future meetings of the EPC and its student
counterpart, the Academic Policy Committee.

Also featured in the SGA meeting was a report from the Admissions and Financial Aid Committee. Committee member Laura Cepeda
’10 gave some primary information on the class of 2013. She noted that early applications were up 20 percent and
overall applications were up 1.2 percent. More admissions were granted from the following demographics: legacy students, North Carolinians, African Americans,
first-generation college students, and men. She also talked about changes that will be made to the financial aid system, in
particular work-study: students who fail to work their entire allotment will be charged the difference. The policy is in response
to a decline in students working far fewer than their allotted hours. This behavior forces the college to hire workers
in place of students, increasing the cost of the program.

Courses in a science department to complete a major under the 3/2 program, as stated that its pre-law concentration is
Pre-Law Society (PLS). Their goal is to give students at Davidson insight into the approaches to law school and give
them the background knowledge to make an educated decision about the possibility of law school. For the past couple of
months, Davidson is under construction. Although technically equal appropriateness concentration does not exist yet, there is a logical school. English,
Art History, Psychology, the Sciences, or Philosophy are appropriate. The Army ROTC program entails the following: a leadership development program
that allows students to learn and apply leadership principles through college courses, physical training, and laboratory exercises.
