6 Tue

DAVIDSONIAN

Best-selling author Dorothy Allison serves as the McGee Professor of Writing for the school year. She delivered a lecture Monday
night.

By AMELIA MONTGOMERY
Staff Writer

Dorothy Allison, Davidson’s 2009-10 McGee Professor of Writing, began her reading on Monday night with the following quotation from one
of her novels: “Tell me something I don’t know.” Penn, a character in the unpublished story, utters this phrase with
one hand cuffed to a bench in a Florida police station for attempting to murder her mother. Penn’s aunt, who
is in the room with her, listens to her niece’s proposition and begins to recount a tale Penn already knows,
but swaps the comical outcome of a trip gone awry in California to a haunting nightmare. The new, supposedly factual
version provokes Penn’s realization of the consequences of taking the wrong path and transforms her anger and indifference into fear.
Her aunt’s powerful storytelling will hopefully induce Penn to save her own life.

The aunt in the story and the author that created her have much in common; Allison’s words captivated the occupants
of the 900 Room just as the aunt’s did Penn. Her six books, including bestselling novels Bastard Out of Carolina
(1992) and Cavedweller (1998), have fascinated readers across the globe. Allison has accrued such awards as the ALA Award for
Lesbian and Gay Writing, the Tanner Prize in Ethics from Stanford University, two Lambda Literary Awards, and the Robert Penn
Warren Award for Fiction.

Allison grew up the daughter of a teen mother in Greenville, SC, and was the first in her family to
graduate from high school and college. The early feminist movement highly influenced her writing and gave her the affirmation she
needed. She now lives in Sonoma County, CA with her partner Alix and her son. “I make [my family] into
stories all the time. Sometimes they forgive me,” she said. It is clear from her standing as a prominent southern,
feminist, queer, and working-class writer that her own life experiences highly influence her work.

Allison stresses the importance of true passion in writing. Her writing is full of candor and audacity. In fact, her
readers know she often touches upon uncomfortable subjects, including Daddy Glen, a brutal stepfather from Bastard Out of Carolina. Allison
asserts that, though she relished including elements of her own stepfather into the novel, revenge alone does not make a
good story; a writer must understand a character’s motives more deeply than a singular focus on revenge will allow.

The brilliant insight seen in Allison’s lecture is certainly only the tip of the iceberg of what her English 204
students stand to receive this semester. If you are not fortunate enough to have add/dropped your way into her class,
do not fret. Allison’s most important advice to aspiring writers should be relatively easy to follow: “Write! Make it a
source of joy. Make it a place that you’re happy to go to,” she said.

Also, Allison praises Davidson students, whom she describes as “passionate about justice” and “hot and engaged.” Despite her compliments, it
is certain that the Davidson student body is privileged to have the experience of Dorothy Allison this semester. Allison unquestionably
knows how to engage both readers and listeners, and Penn’s reaction at the end of her aunt’s story could also
be used to describe the audience’s reaction to Allison’s reading: “A hell of a story. A hell of a story.”

Wed. 9/2
Watson Fellowship Informational Meeting, Sloan 201 8 p.m.
Perspective Campus Police BBQ, MCF lawn, 6 p.m.
Outpost Trivia Night, Outpost 11 p.m.

Thur. 9/3
Seniors Only Live Thursdays with Waylen Roche, 900 Room 10 p.m.
David Perry: Ethics and War in Comparative Religious, 900 Room, 12 p.m.
Studio Art Exhibition, Van Every Gallery

Fri. 9/4
Family Vaudeville Extravaganza, Duke Family Performance Hall, 7 p.m.
Film Screening: “I Love You Man,” 900 Room 9 p.m. and 11 p.m. showingsArt Exhibition
Van Every Gallery
10 p.m.
Battle of the Rock Band/So You Think You Can DDR
900 Room

Studio Art Exhibition
Van Every Gallery

"Pitch tall tents and pop open plastic tables" from Mecklenburg, Cabarrus, eggplants, and scrumptious squashes.

The Davidson Farmer’s Market began in 2007 when a group of committed and enthusiastic neighbors approached Kat Macintyre, the late
director of Downtown Davidson, Inc. Since then, the market has grown to include over 30 produce vendors in addition to
fresh fruits and vegetables. The Davidson Farmer’s Market mission statement declares they desire to promote a farmer’s market in Davidson
that will provide a vibrant community gathering with locally grown agriculture from local farms, which helps the environment. The market
benefits from the decision to buy local.

Preparation for The Davidson Farmer’s Market involves unloading crates of crisp apples, purple eggplants, and scrumptious squashes from Mecklenburg, Cabarrus,
Iredell, and Rowan Counties. The market boasts cheese made from fresh milk, and products from the farmer’s market typically taste
fresher and have a better selection. Certain products, such as most fruits and vegetables, are only available seasonally, enhancing the
farmer's market experience. Many vendors have interesting stories to share.

Buying local cuts carbon dioxide emissions from food transport significantly. Global climate change destroys the environment and threatens species diversity.
The local economy, as well as one’s personal health, benefits from supporting local, organic farms. Farmers receive about 20 cents
of every food dollar spent at a grocery store. Food bought directly from a farmer cuts the cost of transportation,
processing, packaging, refrigeration, and marketing. Consequently, the farmer’s profit increases and local produce remains affordable. In fact, organic apples bought
at the market cost less than non-organic apples from the grocery store. The products sold at the market, such as
meat and eggs, should arrive fresh to ensure the best quality, reducing waste of paper and plastic containers. Finally, talking
with the vendors really enhances the experience.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2009

College Cooking with Ellen
By Ellen Viser
Staff Writer

Lentil Salad

This salad is great for our busy college lives. With just a little effort, you can have this delicious bean
salad ready for a quick snack anytime or to pair with a sandwich for a full, nutritious meal. Once prepared,
it’s great straight from the refrigerator, so there’s no need for a microwave!

To cook with lentils:
- ½ pound dry lentils
- 3 cups water
- 1 small onion, not chopped
- 1 cup chopped carrots
- 2 sprigs fresh thyme (or 4 tsp dried)
- 1 bay leaf
- Salt and pepper, to taste

For salad:
- ½ cup onions, finely chopped
- 2 cloves garlic, finely minced
- 1 tbsp red wine vinegar
- 3 tbsp olive oil
- ½ cup tomatoes, cubed
- 2 tbsp parsley, chopped
- 4 slices bacon, chopped
- ½ cup feta cheese, crumbled

Combine all lentil ingredients in a pan. Bring to a boil and simmer for 20 minutes. Lentils should be tender—don’t
overcook them! Drain and remove onion, sprigs of thyme (if used fresh), and bay leaf. In a salad bowl, combine
lentils with chopped onions, garlic, vinegar, oil, tomatoes, salt, and pepper. Toss well and sprinkle with the chopped parsley and
feta cheese. Enjoy right away or refrigerate for up to one week. The flavors will continue to combine and intensify
for several days.

Editor’s Note: College Cooking with Ellen will be a regular column in the Arts & Living section. She intends to
provide affordable recipes for quick, tasty meals that can easily be prepared in a dorm or apartment kitchen.

Sun. 9/6
Bernard Lecture: Tobias Wolff
Lecture, Duke Family Performance Hall
7:30 p.m.

Tue. 9/8
“Using Mathematics to Create Symmetry Patterns,” Dr. Joseph Gallian
900 Room
8 p.m.

The Davidson Show
900 Room
10 p.m.

Studio Art Exhibition
Van Every Gallery
