THE UNCRUSTABLE ISSUE
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2009

DEPRESSED STUDENT PUTS UP RAINBOW CALENDAR, TO NO EFFECT
SEE PAGE 8

NEW HAMPSHIRE FINALLY ADMITS IT’S NOT REALLY A STATE ANYWAY
SEE PAGE 3

80% OF ALL COMMUNITY BIKES ALREADY MANGLED, BROKEN HUNKS OF SADNESS
SEE PAGE 6

**BUILDING TOMORROW** ACCUSED OF PROCRASTINATION
SEE PAGE 4

OF THE WEEK SEARCH: “°C aT MASSAGE”

THE YOWL
Your Davidson Honor Section

Editor: Alex Greening
Writers: Lauren Odomirok, Amanda Ottaway, Peter Bruton, Brian Correa, Brian Park

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

The size of a half a dollar
America’s Favorite!

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER
October 7, 2008

Patterson Court Houses 6 BA. - City Competes for the 2020 Olympics

In response to the recent heartbreaking selection of Rio de Janeiro to host the 2016 Olympics over Chicago, the United
States Olympic Committee is choosing Detroit for its next Olympic candidate city. “We have to pull out the big guns
now,” said Stephanie Streeter, acting chief executive of the USOC. “Looking at Rio, and South Africa, host country of the
2010 World Cup, it is clear that America has to step up its game to compete with these highly developed
and extraordinarily competitive countries. America now has to showcase its finest city, Detroit, to have any hope of hosting a
major international sporting competition.”

Support for a Detroit Olympic bid is strong in the city. Detroit mayor Dave Bing recently explained why his city
is the city to beat. “Detroit’s unemployment rate has hit an all-time low of 30%, not to mention our crime
rate is now just the sixth highest in the nation!” reported a jovial mayor Bing, “with those numbers, we can
definitely compete with places like Rio de Janeiro and South Africa.”

The proposed 2020 Athlete’s Village

Local residents have expressed their passion and desire to bring the Olympics to Detroit, but enthusiasm for the Detroit Olympic
bid has not been ubiquitous. One angry opponent of the Detroit bid, Robert Ritchie said, “I don’t want any damn
people in this city, except for those female gymnasts!” “Get off my property,” shouted another angry denizen of Detroit, “Beardo,”
a local homeless man.

Despite these critics, many, including President Obama, have vocalized their support for the bid. Minutes after Chicago lost the 2016
bid, President Obama remarked, “Detroit is a much better city than Chicago. In fact, Detroit is the best city in
America, and it’s time the world sees this.... Hope....Change.”

Davidson—Eating house Warner Hall has recently decided it will no longer throw its signature party “Madonnarama” every year. Instead, Warner
will replace the tribute with the “Kenny G Gala.” Warner Hall’s tribute to Kenneth Gorelick will feature the smoothest jams
the Court has ever heard.

“We really didn’t feel the enthusiasm was there for this party, even from Warner members. Most people don’t really know
who Madonna is anymore, and the novelty of bad 80s music wears off pretty quickly,” said Warner Hall President Sandy
Westgate. “The fall is critical for making a good impression on the first-year students. We wanted to have a party
around a figure that says, ‘we are smart, but like to have a good time.’ Kenny G was the obvious
choice. We all love Kenny G and you can always hear his music blasting from F on Friday night anyway.”

“Kenny G was the obvious choice.”

Kenny G is a Grammy award-winning alto-sax player who also holds the world record for playing a single saxophone note
for a whopping 45 minutes and 47 seconds. Next year the Kenny G Gala will kick off with a Pre-party
at F with special Mezzo Soprano punch mix. Mayhem will ensue at the house as party-goers will dance the night
away to classics such as “G“Force,” “Breathless” and “At Last...the Duets Album.” “The E-flat he played for 45 minutes will
get things started off right,” said social chair Michelle Smith. “The Kenny G Gala will be one for the ages
and a great night for Warner Davidson.”

The brothers of Alpha Tau fraternity announced a new, better type of court party Monday. With recent star-obsessions enveloping Taylor
Swift, Madonna, etc., the brothers have decided to take Patterson in a completely different direction. In an effort to shy
away from the repetition of spandex and bedsheet togas, the Taus have chosen television’s B-list celebrity bad-boy, Bob Saget, as
the star of their next party. Kevin Stuart ‘10 explained, “We feel like this will really liven up the social
scene at Davidson. Who doesn’t love Danny Tanner? And who could forget his role as the middle-aged cocaine addict in
the timeless classic, Half-Baked? There are so many characters to choose from, I think people will really have fun with
this one.”

This unorthodox maneuver sprung from the internet sensation Rollin’ Wit Saget, a masterful online video that showcased Bob Saget’s talents
as a ruthless thug/rapper who claims to be “the illest motherf--ker in a cardigan sweater” and an overall badass. Trend
forecasters cannot predict the effect this will have on our culture’s has-beens. Alpha Tau will be the first fraternity to
attempt this, but surely the rest of Patterson Court is only a few weekends away. Other possible celebrity themes include
Jackie Chan/Kung Fu Panda Party, Charlie Sheen “Wild Thing Wednesday” and Mike Tyson’s “Meatface Monday” cookout.

Belting Out to Tighten the Belts

This year, Davidson College is initiating a new budget-saving measure called “Singing for Savings.” Since the start of the 2009-10
academic year, the administration has been converting every sports team, eating house, fraternity, and club into a harmonizing singing group,
also known as a cappella. “This way,” explained project coordinator Delilah General, “students can have fun and participate in extracurricular
activities virtually for free. A cappella groups don’t use any instruments—it’s genius! We’ve already locked down our free pianist, and
now this!

“We are especially proud of converting all the athletes. Now we don’t have to pay for uniforms, bus trips, meals,
rehab equipment or hotel rooms. We were able to convert Baker Sports Complex into an auditorium, and we will save
hundreds of thousands per year by not paying coaching staffs, trainers or referees.”

Formerly the football team, the new group Colossus looks forward to taking the stage later this month in their debut.
Principal performer Matt Guerrieri, whose stage name is now “Gooey,” said yesterday, “There’s a lot of chest-bumping. It fits well
with the harmonizing of our former defensive line, which sings alto. And watch for my solo in ‘The Way You
Make Me Feel’.” Colossus will be joined on stage by Legs (formerly men’s basketball), Skirts ‘N’ Sticks (field hockey), and
SkinnySwift (track and field/cross country).

Major Disappointment: The Yowl’s Handy Guide

Major: Psychology

Reasons people choose this major: They love tracking the status of Davidson College’s mental health; they have a crush on
Sigmund Freud; they enjoy unnecessarily psycho-analyzing their friends’ problems; statistics actually make sense to them; they are hooked on Myers-Briggs
and try to guess everyone’s personality type; independent and dependent variables rock their world.

Where they study abroad: In the basement of Dana.

Career options: family, couples, or individual counseling; urban planning; neuroscience research; education administration; marketing; fortune telling out of a bright
purple tent at the annual Renaissance Festival.

Why people avoid this major: They would prefer not to know what horrible mental disorders they have.

Description: Psych majors are those poor, misguided souls who think that learning about this subject will improve their social interactions.
They all secretly believe that they can never fit the ideal of human behavior and spend their days projecting their
own developmental problems onto others. They are terrible with relationships.
