THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES

The ups and downs of competition

ALLEN SMITH ’88
Guest Columnist

It may seem illogical for someone who worked hard enough in high school to become valedictorian or while at Davidson to graduate cum laude to not think of himself as competitive. But, I’ve never liked to think of myself that way. Sure, I sensed that I was competitive, but something about it seemed like a vice to me. Maybe the self-centeredness lurking behind the desire to be number one struck me that way. So, I tried keeping that side of me under wraps as much as possible, while still going about my studies and then later in life my work in the business-to-business publishing industry in a highly competitive way.

There can be an obsessive side to competitiveness that seems just plain unhealthy and feeds off itself. I don’t think I’m the only one who’s approached competitiveness this way. In fact, I think it may be fairly common among overachievers, like the students who are drawn to attend Davidson. The greedy impulse to win doesn’t seem too far off from just plain greed. There are also the tremendous downsides that can attend winning at all costs. These downsides may include ethical, social, and health problems, among many others I no doubt am overlooking. How often have I been short with others because I was working on some assignment that just had to come first? And how often have I gotten all knotted up about whether I’d done things exactly right. Absurdly often. There can be an obsessive side to competitiveness that seems just plain unhealthy and feeds off itself.

There are considerable upsides to competitiveness as well though. The thrill of victory isn’t just some tag line for ABC Sports--it’s real. Just ask any elementary school kid clutching onto a blue ribbon after a swim meet. One of my best friends from Davidson lately has me thinking about the upsides of competitiveness. This friend and I were in one of those packs at Davidson that prides itself on setting much of the rest of the college at arm’s length. So, come Midwinters one year, Sarah Roberts ’89 (now Sarah Roberts-Witt) took a cardboard cutout as her date with “Chris” painted down his front side. On a double date. And when at some Davidson pep rally, the cheerleaders dropped poster boards with “Davidson Wildcats Beat” and whoever Davidson was playing fall to the basketball court, she and a friend of hers picked up some random letters that—almost as if by magic—when put together spelled “Suck Me” and paraded around campus with their discovery. Those wacky alumni stories are the ones I now share with some embarrassment, since alumni were among the ones we parodied the most. We laughed like we were the funniest. If we couldn’t be the smartest at Davidson, maybe we could be the smart assiest.

Sarah now is a mother of two who no doubt would cringe to hear me share these stories. This child of Asheville, where morning’s just like living in a poem if you believe those hokey old North Carolina ads students these days are of course too young to remember and laugh at, has moved since graduating from Davidson to Washington, D.C., to New York to San Francisco and then back to Raleigh while pursuing a career in journalism that has taken her to PC Magazine on Park Ave. and into her own burgeoning career as a technology freelancer, while running marathons to boot. Until her time in one race was inexplicably slower than usual. And other health problems cropped up. And she then went about a year and a half without any doctor being able to figure out what was wrong with her, until she finally found someone who realized, unlike some other doctors, that this was not all in her head. That was the good news. The bad news was she discovered she had primary lateral sclerosis (PLS), which is similar to Lou Gehrig’s (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis), but slower.

Sarah now has lived with PLS for more than five and a half years. She can’t walk or speak above a whisper, but she can and has once again organized an annual competitive road race in Raleigh this Sept. 13 that will attract hundreds of runners. Sarah’s egging us all on, teasing me about how the mother of her husband has raised way more money than I have and asking all participants to really get competitive and raise more money to help find better treatments and, hopefully, one day, a cure. Phyllis Witt is way, way ahead of me in fundraising. But there’s a part of me that can’t give up on maybe being number one. I’ve posted pleas for people to sponsor me on social networking site after social networking site (this hasn’t worked for me) and to friends (this has). It even occurred to me that if every student and professor at Davidson sponsored me for $10, I might sprint out to first in fundraising. Far-fetched? Yes. That’s not keeping me from going for it anyway (to donate, visit http://www.active.com/donate/magmile2009/AllenforSarah2009). And to have a new-found appreciation for some of the possible benefits of being more openly competitive.

Allen Smith ’88 has an essay in the University of Wisconsin's anthology, My Diva: 65 Gay Men on the Women Who Inspire Them (2009), and has published a chapbook of poems, Unfolding Maps (Pudding House Publications (2009). Originally from Durham, NC, he lives in Alexandria, Va., with his partner. Contact him at allensmithathome@yahoo.com.

The struggle of the disempowered

David SHERMBECK
Guest Columnist

In the most desolate areas of the most underdeveloped places, people still exist. And those people, no matter the miles away from us, share common experiences, beliefs, and indoctrinations. Each of us is able to look at something around and see ourselves within it. Whether it is a piece of physical nature, a degree of sculpture, another artistic creation, or another human being, when this reminder is found our uniqueness dwindles. Society repeats itself, both for the good and the bad. The same thoughts run through the minds of several of us and the great difficulties of each generation continue to the next, withstanding the bombardment of political movement, grassroots efforts, and charitable foundations. The beginnings of unified societies start with relationships, not the material. But we keep trying to create unique lives. The ideals and the preconditions of the societies each of us are born into, more often than not, lay the foundation for thelives we will lead. Of course, exceptions will always exist. Yet, even in the cases of unlikely success, repeatedly there is a factor that points to a higher future status than they were born into. Hard work alone doesn’t cut it; the interwoven strands of society play a far greater impact on the outcome of a person’s life than the person themselves. Some would argue this is an invalid argument, and their prerogative is acknowledged. But the inability to see the world through the lens of a poor child if you are a wealthy one, or from the perspective of a white-collar executive if you man an assembly line, is what is contributing to the tearing seams of societies everywhere. As the world becomes menacingly smaller in the political and economical sectors, many have chosen to shelter themselves or, due to the heightening magnitude of big business, are left to fend for themselves. Not only in the known-to-be underdeveloped areas of the world, but in the seemingly put-together United States. And others seem to follow. The mega-corporations dangle low prices and shiny advertisements in front of some, and they form a line behind their neighbors, unknowing of the destruction they are causing to the faraway places, the future children, and to their own backyard. The dollar trumps everything today. Low prices always beat a ‘hello’ as you walk in the store. And the undeniable consumerism of the world is creating societies that will never accept establishment as long as it deters their ability to obtain superficial wealth. The world is getting smaller, yet our pocket of acquaintances is becoming less diverse. Only if this continues will we see the unfortunate slide more severely into poverty and the radicals of society move themselves into power. And hidden within every community, in every state, in every nation of the world, are people waiting for others to agree and join the struggle to allow society to see them. Money, food, and clothes are only secondary necessities in most situations. The beginnings of unified societies start with relationships, not the material. As students who painstakingly believe in creating a positive world for all, many of our own are slowly beginning to fade into the background of their communities. The societal wounds must begin to be mended for those who most do not see. It would be too costly not to. Move. Fight. Create.

David Shermbeck ’13 is undeclared. He is from Holly Springs, NC. Contact him at dashermbeck@davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2009

Guest Columnist

Barack Obama has been the President of the United States for almost nine months, and journalists are already taking his head off over fumbled policy and bad poll numbers. New York Times Op-Ed Columnist David Brooks said in his article on September 1, “Obama's job approval