2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson alum took mission to space

Kara JONES
News Staff

Some professors say that you can do anything with a liberal arts education. This certainly seems true in the case
of Tom Marshburn ’82, who recently fulfilled his lifelong dream to become an astronaut.

After graduating from Davidson with a bachelor’s degree in physics, Marshburn went on to get a master's in engineering physics
from the University of Virginia, a doctorate of medicine from Wake Forest University, and a master's in medical science from
the University of Texas Medical Branch. Wanting to work for the space industry, Marshburn began working for NASA in 1994
as a flight surgeon, not thinking he would eventually be able to travel into space. However, in 2004, NASA selected
him for Astronaut Candidate Training. A rigorous two years of scientific and technical briefings, the process entails instruction in a
number of crucial arenas, including shuttle systems and International Space Station systems, physiological training, flight training, and water and wilderness
survival training. The completion of this program qualified Marshburn as a mission specialist, and in 2009 he was chosen as
an astronaut on the shuttle Endeavor.

Born and raised in Statesville, Marshburn grew up building model rockets and dreaming of going to space. He took up
many other hobbies throughout his life, including flying, scuba diving, and mountain climbing. In 1980, he backpacked the Pacific Crest
Trail from Canada to Mexico. Marshburn’s first walk in space marked the fortieth anniversary of Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin’s
first moon landing. He traveled in order to attach a pump and antenna to the International Space Station. The thirteen-man
crew at the International Space Station comprised the largest crew to ever be in one spacecraft at the same time.
Of the five walks on this mission, Tom participated in three. His roles at the station also included doctor and
crew photographer. Marshburn invited Dr. Larry Cain of the physics department to the launch.

Library, from page I

A student could text, dvdsn how do I get to

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2009

Students enjoy a concert by Wale on Saturday night as a part of Wildcat Welcome Week.

Flu numbers on campus still uncertain

CAROLINE WOOD
News Editor

It’s only the second week of classes, and it seems that the same question is on everyone’s lips: who has
the flu? Nurse Jan Poole explained that the Health Center was not surprised by the outbreak, for which the school
has been preparing all summer. “We knew it was coming,” she said, “We had just hoped it wouldn’t start quite
this soon.” Poole explained that it is difficult to determine the prevalence of the H1N1 virus on campus for a
number of reasons. No swine flu test exists for public health professionals or individual medical centers, so all cases to
be tested must be sent to a state laboratory for analysis. Only hospitals and medical centers classified as “sentinel sites”
are eligible to send test samples to state labs. The State Department of Health uses information collected from these 92
sentinel sites, including Davidson and 16 other universities and colleges, to determine and monitor trends in the spread of the
virus. The Davidson Health Center has permission to send three samples to the lab per week.

Although the Health Center cannot im-

The library now has four PawPrint printers, from which students may print documents sent from any connected computer on campus.
The southeast corner on the main floor is catalogued using the Library of Congress Classification system in place of the
former Dewey Decimal System and inaugurated the Library of Congress call numbers with Davidson professor John “Law and Society in
theh Carolina, Court immediately confirm whether or not a specific case is the H1N1 virus, Poole explained that the health
center knows that the cases it has been seeing this week are not the seasonal flu, since such cases are
atypical during this time of year. Poole explained that if a student tests positive for influenza A, then they most
likely have the swine flu. Although she is not certain of the number of Davidson students who may have the
flu, Poole finds the Davidson outbreak to be consistent with reports distributed by the North Carolina Department of Public Health.
The College has set up a rubric of stringent guidelines for those who believe they may have the flu. Students
living with roommates have been temporarily quarantined on the second and third floors of Martin Court F, where lounges have
been converted into campus-wide infirmaries. The health center asked students living in singles or off campus to quarantine themselves, only
leaving their rooms when necessary and wearing masks when in public. The administration also advises all students who have been
diagnosed or suspect that they might have the flu to avoid attending classes. Commons provides delivered and to-go meals for
students who are isolated because of illness, and professors have been instructed to take the prevalence of the virus into
account. Poole warns, however, that students shouldn’t use class absences casually, since H1N1 and other illnesses will be sweeping the
campus throughout the semester. The Student Health Center emphasizes the need to treat all illnesses, including the seasonal flu and
common colds, with special care in light of the spreading virus. Although only 14 students have tested positive, cases that
test negative may be false negatives, and the ideal testing procedure has not yet been determined. The college expects to
receive a first round of vaccines for the H1N1 virus sometime after mid-October, when the federal government has projected a
supply will be ready. In an email to the Davidson student body, Dean Shandley explained that college students have been
identified as one of the highest at-risk groups for the H1N1 virus.

See Flu, page 4

Social changes, from page 1

Patty Perillo reiterated the idea that the Risk Management and Patterson Court changes are not intended to push parties off-campus
or deny students the ability to have fun. “We know students work really hard,” she said. “The intent [of the
changes] is to allow for safe fun.” In addition, the annual “First Night Down,” the weekend in which freshmen are
traditionally first allowed to attend Patterson Court events, will now be held on a Monday, rather than a Friday, and
is now called the “Opening of the Court.” The changes in Patterson Court operations come in conjunction with President Ross’s
alcohol task force, which started last semester and has continued into the current year. The committee is made up of
both students and administrators, and will present their final report in the coming weeks. Perillo said that the task forces
are taking a “broader, deeper look at the alcohol culture and having students lead the way to make changes.”
