12 Wildcats step right into fire in opener at #11 Elon

Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

The Davidson College football team will open its season on September 5 when the Wildcats travel up Interstate-85 to challenge
the Elon Phoenix. The Wildcats will look to eliminate the memory of last year’s 4-7 (3-5 in the Pioneer Football
League) campaign, a season that was largely undone by injuries and turnovers (19 interceptions proved especially costly).

The Wildcats have a chance to set a program record for victories in a decade. Davidson has won 47 games
since the year 2000, and three victories this season would set a new standard of excellence for the Wildcats. The
decade was started on a note of perfection as the 2000 team went 10-0, and this year’s team will look
to finish the decade on a positive note.

The main question on offense will be how the Wildcats will replace last year’s starting quarterback Ryan Alexander ’09. Alexander
obliterated the school records for career passing yardage and touchdowns last season, setting figures of 9,376 and 72, respectively. Michael
Blanchard ’11 appears to have the inside track to take over the starting position. With Blanchard taking the snaps, the
Wildcat offense will show a spread-option look at times, taking advantage of Blanchard’s abilities as a runner in contrast to
Alexander’s pocket-passing persona. Also figuring into the mix is Matt Heavner ’12, a more stationary gunslinger.

The Wildcats will return two powerful weapons at running back this year in Justin Williams ’11 and Kenny Mantuo ’11.
Mantuo, the stronger of the two, scored 10 touchdowns last season while the speedy Williams averaged 5.6 yards per carry.
Williams, whom Coach Tripp Merritt has compared to Reggie Bush, will also return kicks and be featured as a slot
receiver. He had a 98-yard kickoff return for a touchdown against San Diego last year.

The Wildcat receiving corps will look to offset the loss of Kirk Konert ’09 and Myles Potter ’09 from last
year’s team. Konert led the Wildcats in touchdowns, receiving yards and receptions last year with six, 692, and 53, respectively.
The team will look to fill the void with the contributions of Andrew Aldrich ’10 and Mark Hanabury ’11, who
combined for 77 receptions and 978 yards last season.

The offensive line will be anchored by four seniors, including Mark Iafrate ’10, who was named to the Preseason All-PFL
First Team. Joining Iafrate will be Jason Perillo ’10, Joe Tabler ’10, Shane Purvis ’10, Marshall Ellis ’11, and Zenus
Wilson ’11.

The Wildcat defense will be

See Football, page 11

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2009

Defense holds strong as field hockey secures first victory

ANNA STOCKAMORE
Staff Writer

The Davidson women’s field hockey team opened their season with two games this weekend on Belk Turf Field against the
non-conference opponents of Ball State on Saturday and Sacred Heart on Sunday.

The team looked strong in both match-ups. Unfortunately, they lost against Ball State who defeated the Wildcats 2-1, with a
game-winning shot late in the second half. Davidson returned to the field on Sunday and achieved its first win of
the season by defeating Sacred Heart 2-1 with impressive defensive play and a dominant offense.

In Saturday’s game, Brooke Macgillivary of Ball State was first to score, but less than one minute later Davidson’s forward
Ellie Szykowny ’11 tied the game with her first goal of the season. The game remained tied until the end
of the second half when Hannah Jones of Ball State scored the game-winning shot in the 47th minute.

In the match against Sacred Heart, Finley Amato ’13 scored her first and game-winning goal off her

photo by Tripp Bartholomew

Ellie Szykowny ’11 controls the ball during the Wildcats’ 1-0 win over Sacred Heart on Sunday. On Saturday, Szykowny scoredthe
'Cats lone goal in a 2-1 setback against Ball State. Throughout the game, Amato had four shots on goal, topping
all other teammates in shot attempts. "Finley is an excellent athlete and will come in with one of the strongest
hits on the team. She plays a fast-paced game and is a great presence on the field. With a relentless
attitude, Finley will undoubtedly be an impact player for the Wildcats," Coach Sutton commented. Davidson led Sacred Heart in See
Hockey, page 11

'Cats stumble on opening road trip, begin season 1-2

Defender Amanda Flink '11 recorded a goal in each of the Cats' first two games against N.C. State and Winthrop.

Player of the Week
Krista Goeke '10
Field Hockey

PRINCETON, NEW JERSEY - The senior goalkeeper made three saves on her way to recording her first shutout of the
season in the Wildcats' 1-0 victory over Sacred Heart on Sunday. The three saves moved Goeke into a tie for
4th place in Davidson record books with 255 career saves.

JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

The women's soccer team opened their 2009 campaign with a trifecta of tough road games against top-notch Division-1 competition. In
the first contest versus Winthrop, the 'Cats pulled out a solid 3-1 decision, but they fell short last weekend against
NC State and UNC-Wilmington.

The squad ventured to Rock Hill, SC on Aug. 28 to face the Winthrop Eagles. This Big South conference team
shares several opponents with the Wildcats this fall, and thus provides an excellent gauge for the team's position to open
the season. And fortunately, after a 3-1 victory, that outlook looks promising.

Just four minutes into the first half, Stephanie Gerow '12 found Amanda Flink '11 with a lofted volley in the
six-yard box following a corner kick from Lauren Conner '10. It would be the first of two corner setups from
the senior. The 'Cats pounded the Eagle keepers with 10 shots during the first period, but when the halftime whistle
sounded, the score still held 1-0. Still, the Davidson team maintained all the momentum and energy heading into intermission.

The Wildcats came out of the second-half gates with a fury, sending two shots into the back of the Eagle
net within the first ten minutes. For the first score, near the 48th minute, Gerow knocked another Conner corner directly
into the goal. Just six minutes later, Blakely Low '10 ripped a header off the touch of classmate Kyri Bye-Nagel
'10. In the week prior, Bye-Nagel earned all-SoCon preseason team honors for the second year running.

To Winthrop's credit, the home team did manage a response goal in the 58th minute, but it wouldn't be enough.
The Davidson defense regained its composure and held the Eagles to three shots in the second period, after only three
in the first. For keepers Jessie Baxa '12 and Loring Ward '10, the afternoon provided minimal activity in the box,
each recording one save.

Against the balanced attack of the Winthrop Eagles, the 'Cats maintained a consistent and dominating presence. But facing a one-woman
assault laid on them by the NC State Wolfpack, Davidson was forced to take a defensive stance. In the game's
first 45 minutes, led by a career performance from Tanya Cain '12, the Wolfpack unleashed a 3-0 lead. It was
clearly a different attitude that entered the locker room from the Saturday before, but fortunately, the game didn't count for
much more than the preseason preparation. With that perspective in mind, the 'Cats held their own to See 'Cats, page
10

With the score tied 0-0 late in the first half, Finley Amato '13 found the back of the net to
put Davidson up 1-0. Amato's goal, the first of her career, proved to be the only one of the match
as the 'Cats held on for their first win of the season.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Amato's first career goal lifts 'Cats to win over Sacred Heart
