4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sociology, from page 3

biographies about two inmates. Interviewing inmates can prove frustrating, as “when you hear stories of [these inmates’] lives growing up,
it doesn’t surprise you that they end up in prison.”

The fatalism some inmates have regarding their likelihood of being in prison is especially disheartening to Klaasen, who reveals one
instance when an inmate convicted of murder said, “I’d always assumed I’d go to prison, but for drugs and not
murder.”

Klaasen is also discouraged by “seeing men come back to prison time and time again,” an observation Dr. Ruth confirms
with statistics: “Two-thirds of prisoners return within three to five years.”

Klaasen says she has learned a great deal from the course. “I think it’s great that this type of class
is offered at Davidson,” she said. “It’s really good to put us in a situation where most of us will
never be, especially since some Davidson students will be in a position where their decisions will affect people in prison.”

Another problem inherent in the criminal justice system, according to Collins, is that the poor are disproportionately disadvantaged. This is
largely because accused persons who cannot afford to hire their own attorneys must be represented by state-appointed attorneys. These attorneys
often “have ridiculously large case loads, putting the individuals that are assigned to them at a disadvantage, strictly because they
didn’t have the means to hire a personal lawyer,” Collins said.

Dr. Ruth hopes that students taking his course will attempt to find potential solutions to this country’s crime problem, which
is partially perpetuated by the “educational failures of our school system.”

Dr. Ruth supports this observation, sharing that several former students who’ve taken Sociology 319 now have careers which impact the
criminal justice system. Students have gone on to become law enforcement agents, corrections workers, lawyers, and social workers.

Collins said that she appreciates the value of her experience in Sociology 319. “This class has given me a chance
to see some of the shortcomings of the criminal justice system, which literally can ruin an innocent person’s life,” she
said. “Things have become more real for me, which ultimately results in me learning more.”

CORRECTION

A Feb. 25 article, “New locavore initiative,” misspelled the last name of Christy Shi ’96, who started “Know Your Farms”
for northern Mecklenburg County.

on the opportunity to see the world from a unique perspective

if you are curious and adventurous, then pack your bags and say goodbye to the status quo.

Study abroad to earn college credit, experience a different culture, learn a foreign language, discover who you are and much
more.

USAC, your gateway to the world.™

UNIVERSITY STUDIES ABROAD CONSORTIUM

Watson, from page 1

son. She has assisted Dr. Karen Hales with genetics research since her sophomore year and spent last summer researching behavioral
ecology with Dr. Mark Stanback. She is currently writing a Biology honors thesis on mitochondria in fruit flies.

Bergner’s passion for research led her to Australia for the first semester of her junior year where she studied abroad
on a School for Field Studies program.

It was in Australia that Bergner first encountered bats. “One of our main focuses was bats, so we would catch
them in these traps called harp traps and then put light sticks on them and release them,” she said. “Then
we'd track them throughout the rainforest at night. We also volunteered at a bat hospital, caring for baby flying foxes
whose moms had been paralyzed by ticks.” Her experiences in Australia were one of the main inspirations for her Watson
proposal.

Asked about the significance of bats, she pointed out their unique qualities. “They’re really cool creatures, a product of evolution—flying
nocturnal mammals—there’s pretty much nothing else that fits that description,” she said. “They’ve radiated all over the world, and they
occupy all sorts of niches.”

Despite her fondness for bats, while researching her proposal, Bergner noticed that many cultures harbor aversions toward this animal.

Bergner insisted, “They’re a lot cuter than you would think...they serve a lot of roles that are really useful to
humans, but they’re pretty underappreciated.”

In addition to exploring their ecological role, Bergner will look at bats in relation to human societies, investigating why bats
provoke so much cultural anxiety.

Bergner has been awarded a Watson Fellowship for her work with bats.

Bats, in Bergner’s opinion, may be a symptom of an underlying miscommunication between the scientific community and the community at
large. In the future, Bergner said, “I’m interested in making scientific research accessible.”

By exploring why bats get bad press when they are actually quite harmless and helpful to humans, Bergner will try
to better understand the gap between science and society. With the help of Bergner’s Watson Fellowship, perhaps bats will gain
the social standing they scientifically deserve.
