12 a es Wildcats split games in Davidson Adidas Classic

ZACHARY ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson hosted the Adidas Classic at Alumni Stadium this weekend. The tournament featured UNC-Asheville, Coastal Carolina, Davidson, and Georgetown. On Friday night, Davidson faced off against UNC-Asheville, capturing a 2-0 victory. After a big win, Davidson hoped to remain undefeated but fell to Coastal Carolina by a score of 3-1 to go an even 1-1 in the Adidas Classic.

Davidson dominated on Friday night, recording their first shutout victory of the season. Early in the match, Davidson got to a 1-0 lead at the 3:10 mark when Yannick Pilgrim '11 fired one into the net. In exciting fashion, Alex Caskey '11 passed the ball to Mark Millard '12 on the right side of the box. Evading his defender, Millard sent a high crossing pass through the box to Pilgrim. Pilgrim connected on a diving header to put Davidson up 1-0. Davidson went into the half with the lead.

During the second half, Davidson had many scoring attempts. Not until the 70-minute mark did Davidson convert for the second time on the night. After being taken down by a UNC-Asheville defender, Caskey received a penalty kick and nailed his opportunity, putting Davidson up 2-0 and sealing the match. Davidson improved to 2-0 for the first time since 2005 when they won the Southern Conference regular season championship. Chip Sanders '12 registered his first career shutout stopping five shots on goal.

Unfortunately, Sunday was a different story. On a positive note, Charlie Reiter '10 and Caskey were named to the all-tournament team. Coastal Carolina got off to a quick start when at the 1:52 mark they collected a rebound deflected by Sanders and fired it into the back of the net to go up 1-0. Davidson wasted no time in knotting things up though. In the 19th minute, Davidson’s Reiter had impeccable timing when he jumped up and kicked a ball out of the air into the goal tying things up at 1-1. The score would remain tied at one for the rest of the half.

Coastal Carolina controlled the tempo for the rest of the match. In the 49th minute, Coastal Carolina fired a shot to the left post to put them up 2-1. Despite various close offensive attempts, Davidson could not capitalize. Coastal scored again at the 72:56 mark when they earned a free kick and headed it into the goal.

“We need to learn from our loss today and come back strong in our next game,” Reiter said. “We have the talent and desire to do so, and I have no doubt that the team is hungry to build on our wins.”

Today, Davidson travels to Radford for its first away match of the season.

Photo by Tripp Bartholome:
Alex Caskey '11 dribbles the ball with an eye on teammate Charlie Reiter '10, left, during the Wildcats’ 2-0 win over UNC-Asheville in the Davidson Adidas Classic. Both Reiter and Caskey earned All-Tournament honors as the 'Cats went 1-1 on the weekend.

'Cats nip Panthers

JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

Wrapping up the third week of their fall campaign, the women’s soccer team added one W and one L to their record. On Thursday, the 'Cats dropped a home match 2-0 against UNC-Charlotte, and won a 1-0 shutout on Sunday against High Point. The progression between these games captures the team’s growing emphasis on consistency and defense.

Thursday night’s game at Alumni Stadium opened up as a grudge match between inner-city rivals. The 49ers earned spots in the NCAA tournament the past couple of years, taking the top spot in a competitive Atlantic-10 conference. For 50 minutes or so, Davidson matched the Charlotte caliber of play. Defense was the name of the game in the first half. Over the first few games of the season, head coach Greg Ashton cycled players in and out of the fullback rotation, seeking that ideal personnel match. Between the pipes, Loring Ward '10 snubbed the early 49er attack, which came with a fury. Though neither team found a way onto the scoreboard in the opening minutes, Charlotte controlled possession. The away team rocketed nine shots on goal, to the Wildcat three. Still, heading into halftime, the 'Cats showed no signs of letting up.

Then, just over 10 minutes into the second half, the 49er offense chopped in a cross from the goal line, which was picked up in the box.and rocketed around the near post. Stunned from the game’s first goal, the defense let slip another in the 63rd minute off a corner kick. Just like that, within the span of seven minutes, the game had turned around. It’s this brief drop in concentration that Ashton hopes to erase. “What we’re looking to do is try to put more consistency into our play, so we can last 90 minutes with a consistent, concerted effort,” he said. “When we start doing that, we’ll get the results we deserve.” While the defense eventually recovered and locked down on Charlotte’s assault, the offense still looked tentative, and the Wildcat ball control still lacked its usual vigor. “After we work hard defensively, now when we do have the ball, let’s try to dictate play a little better,” Ashton said. “That’s not rocket science — it’s what we need to do to be successful. I feel like we’ve got the players to do it — we just need to be more stingy at giving the ball away.”

Three days and an hour-and-a-half drive later, the 'Cats earned a chance to redeem themselves. Facing the High Point Panthers, they gathered some lessons learned from the previous loss and focused their efforts on maintaining consistency. “We need to get back to basics, and we need to defend better,” Ashton said. “For us to win games, we have to start with a defensive base where it’s disciplined defending and we don’t dive in. And that’s where we’re going to have to continue that theme throughout the season.” With whatever pregame speech he inspired his players, his approach paid off. The Davidson ball control and possession strength trumped the previous match, and the unit clicked together with intensity and coordination. At the back, Amanda Flink '11, Sophie Newsom '12, Lauren Connor ’10, and Louise Timboe ’13 dug in for a gritty defensive stand.

Merely 15:17 into the first half, the Davidson offense struck first with a vengeance. Off a sailing corner from Allison Drutchas ’11, Kyri Bye-Nagel '10 directed the ball’s trajectory straight into the back of the net. There is a scoring combination we can expect to see for the rest of the fall, particularly as a dangerous threat in corner kicks. For the rest of the first half, the 'Cats continued to pound the home team’s goalposts, tallying up 11 shots to the Panthers’ 5 in the first period. Despite efforts from Flink, Drutchas, Courtney Hart ’10, Suzanne Sitko ’10, and Rachel Barnett ’13, the Davidson offense could not quite get another one past the keeper. The team held onto a tight 1-0 lead after 45 minutes of play.

The next 45 minutes witnessed a reversal in possession and shot count, as the Panthers made ferocious runs at the Wildcat back line. But it seems as if Ashton might have found his combo — the defense contained the attacks and applied just enough pressure to keep Ward in the clear. She contributed a solid five saves as the 'Cats recorded their second shutout of the season. This week, the team faces a pair of away matchups, taking a Virginia road trip to Richmond on Friday and Virginia Tech on Sunday. A week away from conference play, the 'Cats look to solidify their improving strategy and execution. “The nonconference games, yeah, we'd like to win them — we want to be competitive,” Ashton said. “But the important part of the season is those conference games, starting with Western Carolina. We need to know what we’ve got coming into September 25.”

Player of the Week
Loring Ward '10
Women’s Soccer
CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA

The senior goalkeeper had five saves and recorded the shutout in the Wildcats’ 1-0 win over High Point. The shutout was Ward’s second of the season and fourth of her career.

Bye-Nagel’s goals lift 'Cats to 1-0 victory over Panthers

Kyri Bye-Nagel '10 gave the 'Cats an early 1-0 lead with a goal in the 16th minute on a corner from Allison Drutchas '11. The goal was Bye-Nagel’s 23rd of her career and proved to be the difference in the match as the Wildcats held on for the 1-0 victory.