2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Katie VOEGTLI
Staff Writer

Davidson to host fishing championships

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2009

The upcoming North Regional Championship of the National Guard FLW College Fishing Tournament promises to enliven the Nov. 7 weekend
in Davidson. “If we’re going to produce a television show on the world fishing network, broadcast across Europe, Africa, and
Asia, we’re looking for a real, high-energy, fast-paced, modern show,” said Charlie Evans, President and CEO of FLW Outdoors. “Music
plays a great part of that,” Evans continued.

With that in mind, the weekend agenda includes a Battle of the Bands, showcasing aspiring Davidson musicians. Each of five
selected ensembles is assigned a 45-minute slot to air original compositions and uphold the traditional playing of the national anthem.
Morning performances at Blythe Landing will begin at the refreshing hour of 6:30 a.m. on Nov. 7, 8, and 9,
shortly before the take-off of the fishing fleet. Afternoon performances herald the weigh-in ceremonies on the Village Green at 3:30
p.m. each day. Each group receives a handsome $50 for participation and judges select a winning ensemble to star in
a 30-minute gig before the final weigh-in ceremony on Monday. While playing for the lively crowds on the Village Green,
they may receive national television coverage on Versus Country. Rewards also include a $100 prize and 10 hours at a
local recording studio.

On Saturday, head to the Village Green from 12-7 p.m. for the Reel Life Festival. Besides the classic raffle, a
thrilling ropes course, called the National Guard Warrior Challenge, will be available. Festivities will continue on Sunday from 4-7 p.m.

“We'd love to invite everybody out all three days, especially on Monday, from 4-7 p.m. on the Village Green,” Evans
said. “Everything is free.” This flashy festival, however, is simply a ribbon atop the fishing tournament. As Evans said, “Music
will attract attention and bring crowds,” but the “rods” will hook them.

Twenty teams from a dozen colleges and universities will launch off from Blythe Landing in Huntersville every morning of the
competition. Star schools in the Northern Regionals include North Carolina State University and Virginia Tech. A team is a duet
of fishermen, each of whom can reel in a maximum of three live fish. The pair with the highest combined
weight will be rewarded with a sparkling new Ranger boat and a Chevy truck. Moreover, the top five teams will
proceed to the National Guard National Championship to compete to win $20,000 for their school. The grand prize winner of
the nationals will proceed to face the world’s top professionals in the Forrest Wood Cup with an opportunity to win
even greater rewards.

See complete list of who’s coming: www.davidson.edu/careers
Attire: Business Casual

OFFICE OF CAREER SERVICES
414 ALVAREZ
WWW.DAVIDSON.EDU/CAREERS
704-894-2025

OFFICE OF CAREER SERVICES | DAVIDSON COLLEGE | Box 7180 | DAVIDSON, NC 28035
704-894-2132 | CAREERS@DAVIDSON.EDU

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2009
3:00 PM—6:00 PM
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
BROWN ATRIUM, ALVAREZ UNION

60 law schools attending, including: Duke University, Vanderbilt, William & Mary, Cornell, U of Maryland, U of Miami, Yeshiva, UNC,
Columbia, U of SC (Carolina & California), Boston College, Notre Dame, Loyolas of LA, NO and Chicago, SMU, Tulane, Ohio
State, UGA, and MORE!Capture seven-digit sums. The first nationwide program of its kind, College Fishing is basking in the successes
of its first year. The association charges no entry fee for competitions and grants students travel expenses and boats. Evans
reflected optimistically on the last regional, “It was just fantastic. It was a lot of fun.” By offering college students
this venue for lighthearted recreation, the program emphasizes the importance of taking care of our resources, keeping our waters clean,”
he said.

The Davidson International Association put on its annual International Festival this weekend, showcasing food, culture, and performances from around the
world.

10/21/09 00:15 hrs
Officer was contacted on the officer cell phone in reference to a cat on the porch of apartment 201 of
Flowe Dorm, 101 Martin Ct. Dr. The caller advised the cat had not moved in some time and appeared to
be sick. Upon arrival, the reporting officer observed a black cat sitting on a couch outside the apartment. The reporting
officer advised dispatch that animal control would be needed. Cornelius Animal Control arrived on the scene and removed the cat
from campus. No further police action was taken.

10/21/09 18:00 hrs
Suspicious Person
Officer was contacted on the officer cell phone by a Davidson student who was concerned that an unknown male was
trying to find her through Facebook. She stated that she was at a Starbucks in Charlotte on Sunday, October 18,
2009, waiting on friends to join her when the unknown man started a conversation with her. He told her that
he worked as an engineer in Mooresville with an Indy 500 team. The complainant stated that she did not give
out any personal information, other than she was a student at Davidson College. The unknown subject has been going through
Facebook trying to get her contact information, according to students on campus.

10/22/09 23:22 hrs
Vehicle Stop
Officer observed a vehicle go through the stop sign at the intersection of Baker Drive and Faculty Drive. The vehicle
traveled through the stop sign on Baker Drive traveling north past Faculty Drive. The reporting officer advised the Davidson student
that his vehicle also was in need of a student registration sticker. The driver believed that he did not need
one because he lived off campus and he only parked his vehicle on campus at night. The reporting officer advised
him that he still needed a student registration sticker for his vehicle.

10/25/09 02:33 hrs
Fight in Progress
Officer observed a fight in front of the BSC House, 122 Patterson Court Cir. As the officer started breaking up
the fight, the subjects left the area. The officer started questioning people in the area about who was involved and
was informed that the fight was between a former Davidson student and one of the football players. The officer was
not given the football player's name. The officer spoke with the subject he initially came in contact with, who advised
the officer that he was visiting some friends. The subject stated that he and one of his friends had gotten
into a fight and that all was all right now.

10/25/09 03:05 hrs
Fight in Progress
Officer was advised by an Outpost employee that there was a fight going on in front of Vail Commons. The
officer observed about 15-20 people standing and yelling, trying to pull apart two subjects. As the officers approached the area,
they overheard someone yell “here comes the police,” and then everyone started running. The officers were unable to locate the
subjects involved in the fight.
