THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29, 2009

15

Wildcats’ season ends with SoCon quarterfinal loss

ZACHARY ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson faced Samford on Thursday to open this year’s SoCon Men’s Tennis Tournament in Elon, N.C. After a thrilling comeback win, Davidson took on the top-seeded Furman Paladins on Friday in the SoCon Quarterfinals, dropping the match 4-0 and ending the season.

At first, things looked grim for Davidson on Thursday. Samford came out with heat in the beginning and got off to an early 3-0 lead, seizing the doubles points and wins at the No. 6 and No. 2 singles spots. Calum Gee ’12 ignored the lead and cut it to 3-1 for Davidson, winning by a score of 7-5, 6-1 at the No. 4 singles spot. Davidson then registered the last three points of the match to win 4-3. Eric Noble ’10 sent the No. 1 singles match to a third set, winning by a score of 3-6, 6-3, 7-5. Following Noble’s stellar performance, Scott Myers ’09 captured a victory at the No. 3 spot by a score of 5-7, 7-5, 7-5. This was Myers’ team-leading 12th singles win on the season. With things all knotted up at 3-3, the match was left to be decided by Arie Hefter ’11. At the No. 5 spot, Hefter won in a thrilling third set tiebreaker to clinch the match for Davidson and to advance in the tournament. Hefter not only captured the tiebreaker but rallied from being down 5-1 to win in an exciting match.

After dropping the doubles point on Friday to Furman, Davidson lost at the 1, 4, and 6 spots. The season ended in a blanking for Davidson, but definitely had a positive outcome as Davidson advanced to the second round. Davidson’s record declined to 7-17 overall and Furman advanced to 20-7.

Lance Harden '09 led the ’Cats in the SoCon Championships, winning the 10,000-meter run.

Men’s Tennis (7-17, 2-8)
Results:
SoCon Tournament
4/23 vs. #8 Samford W 4-3
4/24 vs. #1 Furman L 0-4
Next Up: Season Complete
Notes: The ’Cats won the final three singles matches to overcome a 3-1 deficit in their first-round SoCon tournament victory over Samford.

Baseball, from page 16

6 straight days without yielding a run; he ended up giving up only three hits over 8 and 2/3 innings in the series against UNC-G batters. Tuesday, April 28, the Wildcats had their four-game winning streak snapped as they lost 11-3 to the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest University. The out-of-conference defeat should serve as a wake-up call as the ’Cats prepare for the final stretch of conference play. Davidson travels to Charleston, S.C. to face conference foe, College of Charleston, this weekend in a three-game series. The Wildcats will look to ride this wave of timely hitting and stifling relief to improve upon their 11-10 record in the Southern Conference.

Baseball (17-22, 11-10)
Results:
4/22 vs. N.C. A&T W 7-0
4/24 vs. UNCG W 5-4
4/25 vs. UNCG W 4-2
4/26 vs. UNCG W 5-4
4/28 @ Wake Forest L 3-11
Next Up:
5/1-5/3 @ CofC
5/5 vs. Duke
5/6 vs. Va. Tech
Notes: The Wildcats swept UNCG over the weekend to earn their first SoCon series sweep since sweeping App. State in 2005.

CURTIS YOUNG
Staff Writer

This year, it has been my job in this space to bring you articles that directly engaged prominent issues in the sports world. This column has discussed myriad issues and sports, ranging from the NBA playoffs and the Super Bowl to women’s college basketball and field hockey. I have expressed opinions that have generally tried to deal with very broad issues in sports. I want to discuss one more that Davidson students are lucky enough to be able to understand.

Individual Davidson teams do not lack coverage in this publication. They receive plenty of ink each week during their respective seasons. I choose not to address any particular sport but rather address the Davidson athletic program as a whole. As one of the smallest Division I schools in the country, Davidson focuses on...Trying to compete at the highest level of intercollegiate athletics without compromising academic standards. I walked out of CVS today to the sight of Frank Ben-Eze ’12 interacting with small children in the parking lot. How many of us have figured out some way to get Stephen Curry ’10 to sign something for us so that we can have a lasting memory of the recent basketball success? I am not saying that athletes at other schools do not interact with fans and participate in their communities. They do. I do think it’s important to realize how much we take it for granted, though. Case in point: I did not bat an eye at seeing Ben-Eze’s interaction today until I sat down to write this article.

Being our school’s flagship program, the basketball team obviously receives more press and attention than the numerous other athletes on campus. But those athletes should be recognized for their contributions as well. Athletes do not come to Davidson seeking glory or having delusions of grandeur regarding where sports are going to take them. Rather, they come to receive a world-class education in a special place. Distance runner Lance Harden ’09 did not arrive on campus hoping to turn into an Olympic athlete. I lived next to Lance freshman year and did not even realize that he was a runner until he ran circles around the rest of our class in the cake race. Lance just finished a stellar track career with a Southern Conference championship in the 10,000-meter event.

Similarly, swimmers Merritt Peele ’09 and Alanna Ream ’09 did not arrive on campus solely trying to re-write the Davidson record books. But they did. Even when an athlete does achieve the pinnacle of athletic glory on this campus, as Stephen Curry has done, he stays the same guy as when he arrived. Curry might be leaving early for the draft, but even he could not have dreamed the level of success he achieved on the basketball court here. He, too, understood that he was receiving an education first. With the disappointment at his decision to leave, we can take solace in the fact that a finer ambassador for the school would have been difficult to find. He handled his role as the face of Davidson College with dignity, grace, and class. Never once did we see a negative headline as is typical at many schools that place athletics over academics. For that, I will always be grateful.

We are very lucky to have the ability to watch our athletic teams play under coaches that understand Davidson and its values. Everyone wants our teams to succeed at the highest level possible, but certainly not at the expense of academics and citizenship. Our coaches and administration have refused to give in to growing pressure to win at all costs. For that, we should be thankful as well. No Davidsonian writer has needed to write about steroids, drug issues, or arrests with our athletes. Complaints from the student body are few and far between. At such a small school, Davidson athletes have no choice but to infuse themselves into the Davidson community like every other Davidson student. They ask for no special treatment and receive none.

With my career winding down, I look back and am thankful for getting to have such positive interactions with our athletes, coaches, and teams. College sports may fast be becoming more like professional sports, but in our small bubble in North Carolina, our teams have managed to avoid that temptation. For having teams actually worth pulling for and athletes worth getting to know, we should all feel lucky.

Track and Field Results 4/25-4/26
SoCon Outdoor Championships
Statesboro, GA
Men - 5th
Women - 9th
Next Up: Season Complete
Notes: Danielle Ruggieri ’11 won the 10,000-meter event at the SoCon Outdoor Championships with a time of 37:45.13. Ruggieri also ran to a fifth-place finish in the 5,000 meters.

Women’s Tennis (12-12, 6-4)
Results
SoCon Tournament
4/24 vs. Ga. Southern W 4-1
4/25 vs. Furman L 1-4
Next Up: Season Complete
Notes: Michelle Fanney ’09 and Virginia Berry ’10 each earned All-SoCon honors prior to winning their singles matches in the Wildcats’ quarterfinal win over Ga. Southern.