THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, April 29, 2009

Senior te its Hea tggh. ie ay. ay by Ne: is early teenage yea sti¢ guitar from hi: ee a
wa caplaysite. ang the songs.on/ Me is Dye eg Nozuka was: hae PyF Ly during the Juno-award,’ 18 million plays
on ola ¥ ‘Carlson’s

JENNIFER GAMBRELL Arts & Living Editor

Duke Family Performance Hall transformed itself into a forum of haute couture last Thursday evening, when students packed the space
for the Greek Week Fashion Show. The event, sponsored by Dillard’s of Northlake, served as the final contest of Davidson’s
third annual Greek Week. Liam Bracken ’10 took the initiative to reintroduce Greek Week after a year-long hiatus. “We decided
to bring back Greek Week this year in part because of popular demand. [...] Greek Week provided an environment of
friendly competition in which all 14 Patterson Court organizations were able to go out and be proud of their respective
houses and Patterson Court as a whole,” he said.

Each eating house and fraternity could be represented by up to two models. Female participants included Cheli Bleda ’10 and
Amelia Richmond ’09 from Connor, Whitney Sufias ’12 and Laura Spencer ’11 from Warner, Elisa Dison ’11 and Lori Pitts
representing Rusk, Angelina Darisaw ’09 and Ambrice Miller ’09 from AKA, and Jordan Cole ’10 and Brittany Narr ’09 from
Turner House. Though the fraternities did not participate to the extent that the eating houses did, a great group of
aspiring male models took to the specially-constructed catwalk in Duke: Reid Tymcio ’12 (PIKA), Alex Mangone ’09 (Sig Ep), Andrew
Foglia ’09 (Fiji), Christian Hambleton ’10 (Kappa Sig), Edison Wilkinson ’12 (Alphas), and DJ Singleterry ’09 (Kappas).

Models chose outfits from Dillard’s own line. A third category, titled “Make Your Own,” allowed the students to channel their
inner creativity and put together their own unique outfit. Deborah Stalnaker and Debra Kennedy, representatives from Dillard’s, introduced the models
throughout the night and provided amusing commentary. Models showed off their casual outfits first. For women, sundresses and tunic tops
frequently appeared, whereas the men had more varied styles. In typical Davidson fashion, preppy outfits prevailed, though Foglia broke the
mold by sporting a pair of stylish dark jeans.

Next came swimwear. Cristina Casal ’12, Jenny Hall ’12, Cam Griffen ’09, IS Dunklin ’11, and Brandon Sykes ’11 modeled
in this category. Sykes worked the crowd (and made many audience members swoon) by flexing his muscles and dancing. All
five swimsuit models exhibited an amazing amount of confidence. After formal wear, the models retreated backstage to assemble their own
creative outfits. Contestants were required, after walking down the runway, to explain their choice of clothes to the audience. Here,
many chose to emulate their house’s personalities. Cole, for example, put together an eclectic mix that included a leopard print
jumpsuit. Her explanation? “Outfits I’ve worn to the Court! And Mardi Gras beads from Turner’s [Mardi Gras Party],” she said.

As the show wrapped up, attention left the runway and turned to the three “celebrity” judges: Fountain Walker, Patty Perillo,
and Jackie Pitzer. The judges would announce both a male and female winner. Walker channeled his inner Simon Cowell and
addressed the crowd in a wonderfully executed faux-British accent. “I have to say, I’ve been quite impressed,” he said. Pitzer
was equally pleased with the students’ modeling capabilities. “I love ‘em all!” she said.End, the winners were decided. Dison (Rusk)
took the gold for the women and Magone (Sig Ep) won the men’s category. After an intense hour of walks
down the catwalk and cheers from the crowd, Greek Week concluded on a high note.

Eclectic petting zoo in the VAC: ‘Fur Me, Feather Me, Felt Me’

Monique McIntosh: Staff Writer

Small heads are scattered across the floor in the Van Every/Smith Gallery. Their bodies are nowhere to be found, but
two wiry and intact statues stare down at the wreckage. One figure cradles a severed head, staring into the depths
of its face and dark eyes. Normally, this would be too macabre for public viewing but both the heads bear
a striking resemblance to Pokémon characters, with round, pastel heads and cute, beady eyes. Both whimsical and ghastly, Andrew 709's
piece “Hanging Men” embodies the range of this year’s Student Art Exhibition. The entire show reflected a similar array of
the humorous, the sinister, and the unexpected.

The award for best in show went to Jamie Knowles ’10 for his piece “Fur Me, Feather Me, Felt Me,”
a series of three top hats covered in the materials described in the piece’s title. One cannot help but wonder
about the hat’s imagined, schizophrenic owner, jumping from Dr. Zhivago fur caps to glorious, parrot-green feathers. Jen Crowley’s ’09 mixed-media
piece “Rebellion” won second place. A multi-colored, yarn monster is stuck in a white box. The creature pokes through holes
with woolen limbs and lumpy hands, reaching out to the viewer. Brian Leahy’s ’11 untitled painting, which won third place,
consists of a massive white canvas and pastel acrylics oozing down and beyond the surface.

The show gave honorable mention awards: “Ian,” an impressionist acrylic by Devin Draudt ’09 shows a man running through smoke,
his body in waves of liquid blue. Katie Laycock’s ’11 white conté pencil sketch resembles an unearthly still life, with
only indistinct baubles and flutes emerging from the shadows. Lauren Cunningham’s ’09 piece, “Nature Study” consists of two acorn caps
attached to pencils that have been whittled down to their points and pinned on the wall.

Highlights of the show included four lithographs done by Carter Eggleston ’11 of the same cartoonish person posing with various
objects. In one, he chews a toothpick and a rat’s tail (rat still attached). Scientific themes also proved to be
popular subjects among the painters. “Unzipping the Secret of Vertebrates” by Alex Hernandez ’10 trails disembodied spines flowing through black
shadows. Grant Clark’s ’10 piece, “Bored in Science Class,” takes the bright colors of microcosms under a microscope and places
them in a three-part acrylic painting. In the corner, an untitled piece installed by Alanna Ford ’11 consists of small,
white claws that crawl up the wall and onto the ceiling. Annie Temmick’s ’11 bronze and mixed-media piece “Signs of
a Serious Condition” hangs down from the gallery’s ceiling and reveals a head split open with coppery green cords spilling
out. Do not miss the bronze head mirroring the one below, attached to the ceiling and still intact. “Dance,” a
plaster sculpture by Grace Posey ’12, shows an elegant woman stretched out yoga-style, with no head. Instead, a pair of
massive, deer antlers spring forth from the neck.

The show will be open in the Van Every/Smith Gallery at the Visual Arts Center until May 6. If you
missed the free cheese and wine at the exhibit’s opening, the show is still worth a visit as it provides
an uncanny escape from the very real and creepy specter of final papers and exams.
