6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

AMELIA MONTGOMERY
Staff Writer

Few students ever wake in time to see Davidson’s campus at 4 AM, but this past Saturday, members of the
Environmental Action Coalition (EAC) gathered behind Vail Commons to commence cooking a 210-pound hog that they served fourteen hours later
at “Power, People, Pork” — an event that provided students and parents with free barbeque, great music, and ideas on
environmental awareness.

Planning for this event began last year when Claire Naisby ’12, the president of the EAC, suggested that Davidson emulate
a successful UNC Chapel Hill event with the same name. “We definitely copped it from UNC, but we wouldn’t have
used [the same name] if it wasn’t so salient to what we want to do on campus,” Hayden Higgins ’12,
the EAC’s historian, said.

The EAC desired to emphasize food and decided that “People, Power, Pork” would be an effective way to raise awareness
about North Carolina’s pork industry and provoke discussion about local food. North Carolina, whose vast history in agriculture was discussed
at the event by Mart Stewart, the Thomson Distinguished Visiting Professor of Environmental Studies, boasts the United States’ second-largest pork
industry. It contributes nine million dollars to the state economy each year. There are many family-owned farms in the Davidson
area, including Wild Turkey Farm, which supplied the hog for Saturday’s dinner. Located in China Grove, NC, the farm is
owned and operated by Lee Menius, who spoke at the event.

Rapid growth of North Carolina cities, unfortunately, has led to a decline in agriculture that Davidson College’s patronage could alleviate.
If on-campus dining facilities bought food from local vendors, nearby farms would see a much-needed boost in their revenue. “We
can find much of the food we want to consume within a 100-mile radius of Davidson,” the college’s Sustainability Fellow,
Kealy Devoy, said. Advocates tout the many benefits that both the community and the environment undergo when an individual chooses
to eat locally. For instance, consuming local food reduces the amount of gasoline needed for transportation, thereby lowering carbon emissions.

Seasons change—so should your food

RACHEL MULLINS
Staff Writer

At what time of the year do you eat tomatoes? Broccoli? Strawberries? Chances are you eat them all year long,
and why wouldn’t you? Almost every produce item is readily available at the grocery store, but abundant availability, which has
numerous repercussions, has not always been the status quo. In North Carolina, tomatoes are a late summer fruit, broccoli a
late fall/early winter vegetable, and strawberries a late spring fruit. Colder climates might see their broccoli arriving earlier and their
strawberries arriving later.

If these plants only grow in certain seasons, then how is it possible that we can consume them at any
time of the year? Sometimes a produce plant is genetically or chemically altered to extend its growing season or shelf
life. These processes have adverse effects on the food’s nutritional quality. The high processing a fruit or vegetable undergoes to
increase its shelf life causes it to lose vitamins and minerals. And, the longer it goes uneaten, the more nutrient-depleted
the food becomes. This deterioration explains why summer tomatoes are typically bright red, while winter tomatoes are a paler shade.
The nutrients that make the tomatoes red are no longer present in the tomatoes found during colder months. Frozen vegetables,
which are frozen soon after they have been harvested, retain most of their nutrients and are therefore healthier than out-of-season
vegetables.

Not only do we sacrifice nutritional value when we eat produce out of season, we also sacrifice flavor. A strawberry
in late May tastes significantly better than a strawberry in early March, yet we have become so accustomed to having
whatever fruit or vegetable we want, whenever we want it, that we often overlook these differences.We want that we hardly
notice the difference in flavor. Transportation and reduces the consumer’s carbon footprint. Coincidentally, October 24th was the International Day of
Climate Action, a day designed to raise awareness about carbon emissions. As meat requires much more energy to produce than
vegetables or grain, simply eating less meat actually has a greater impact on the environment than just eating locally. The
EAC realizes, though, that not everyone is willing to convert to vegetarianism. “If you’re going to eat meat, eating locally
produced meat is the way to go,” Rachel said.

The demand for all types of produce throughout the year has led to produce that is in season to be
of lesser quality. Because the industry has adjusted for the increased yearly demand, grocery stores carry tomatoes in the summer
that still look pale and mushy. Until we start to demand better quality, seasonal produce, as opposed to a large
quantity and a wide variety, we will continue to sacrifice flavor and nutrition. Eating seasonally, however, does not mean only
eating two or three fruits or vegetables, as each month always has an abundance from which to choose. In spring
there are greens and berries; summer provides tomatoes, eggplants, melons, and zucchini; in fall we see winter squash, apples, and
pumpkins; winter harvests include greens like Swiss chard, kale, spinach, and broccoli. Eating seasonally can be a fun and healthy
way to learn more about the sources of our food and to make sure that we do not forget the
natural limits of agriculture.

Mullins ’12, a member of the EAC, said, “Many of the parents and students who enjoyed Saturday’s barbeque will certainly
agree that locally-produced meat is delicious. Local food, from fruits and vegetables to meat and dairy, is fresher, more flavorful,
and nutritionally valuable than food shipped over long distances. There are, unfortunately, quite a few obstacles to eating locally at
Davidson College. The college requires a high level of liability insurance that most small-scale farmers cannot afford. Also, a single
farm would not be able to supply the amount of food the college requires. But solutions exist. The farms that
Davidson chooses to buy from could potentially buy liability insurance together,” said Devoy. So, the dialogue over switching to local
food at Davidson is ongoing. Even if a switch to local food at Davidson College proves impossible, every little bit
counts, and “Power, People, Pork” certainly counted. The turnout pleasantly surprised Devoy and the members of the EAC. “I don’t
think any of us thought it would be the success it turned out to be,” Galen King ’10, the EAC’s
treasurer, said. It certainly sounds like the 4 a.m. wake-up call paid off.

The article, “People, Power, Pork” states that only eleven states have criticized criminalizing photography of farms. This “only” also likes
to clarify that the states that have outlawed photography of farms are infringing upon First Amendment rights.

Wed. 10/28
Thur. 10/29
Fri. 10/30
Sat. 10/31
Sun. 11/1
Mon. 11/2
Tue. 11/3

“Disability in Public: Film Screening with Live Organ Accompaniment: The Hunchback of Notre Dame” 1:30 & 11 p.m.
“Hot, Flat and Crowded--An Update,” Best-selling author and journalist Thomas Friedman 7-8 p.m.
“Getting to Normal: A Conversation” 6 p.m.
“Power, People, Pork” 7 p.m.
HAPPY HALLOWEEN! All Hallows’ Day--Sleep late, clean the punch stains off the sofa, catch up on homework after the weekend
Halloween festivities.
Carney Sandoe & Associates Information Session 7 p.m.
Performance “The Davidson Tradition of Honor and Integrity: Unveiling the Mysteries” 2:30 p.m.
“SOS North Korea: Confronting the Nuclear and Security Challenges of Kim Jong Il’s DPRK” 7 p.m.
“Tartuffe” Duke Performance Hall, 8 p.m.
“Past Contributions and Future Prospects of Memory Studies” Lilly Family Gallery, 7 p.m.
“Tartuffe” Duke Performance Hall, 7:30 p.m.
