4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAROLINE WOOD
News Editor

Tuesday, Nov. 3 will bring many important developments for the town of Davidson, including the election of new seats on the Town Board and the School Board.

Eight candidates will vie for the position of Town Commissioner; five seats are available. The candidates are a diverse group of leaders representing a number of different professions and background experiences.

Three of the candidates are incumbents already serving on the Town Board: Margo Williams, who has been a Board member for fourteen years, has also served on the town Planning Board, Community Relations Committee and the Public Arts Commission and was the founding president of the Davidson Housing Coalition; Laurie Venzon, a two-year Board member and former Bank of America executive who hopes to focus on maintaining community despite Davidson’s continued growth; and Brian Jenest, an architectural firm director who is concerned about the town’s transportation issues, including the commuter rail.

Candidates also include Drew Crawford '01, owner of the Wooden Stone gallery, who believes the town must focus on economic and commercial issues (including small business development) as well as the preservation of public space, and Mickey Pettus, a local pharmaceutical and medical device professional. Connie Wessner, who has worked on the Davidson Housing Coalition and the town Planning Board, stresses the importance of building relationships in order to develop collaborative solutions to issues the town faces.

Nick Gibietis, an employee of Apple Computers and a town resident of 18 months, hopes to use his experience working in similar suburban towns to educate his service to Davidson and is particularly interested in the development of the commuter rail project. Tim Dreffer, who has served on the Downtown Davidson board and the Davidson Elementary School leadership team, stressed the importance of re-prioritizing the financial investments and concerns of the town.

Davidson Police Chief Fountain Walker also planned to run for the position; however, he dropped out of the race in September.

On Oct. 15, the Lake Norman Chamber of Commerce hosted a community forum in which candidates could express their views and speak with voters directly. The forum was divided into six segments, in which candidates discussed several relevant town issues, including ways of preserving Davidson’s sense of community, affordable housing, the financial condition of the town-owned cable system and their own plans for unpopular but necessary developments and legislation.

One seat on the Charlotte Mecklenburg Schools District 1 board (which includes Davidson, Cornelius and Huntersville) is also open, and three candidates will vie for that position: Strayer University writing professor and former primary and secondary level educator Gail Summerskill; Rhonda Lennon, founder of Families United for North Mecklenburg Education; and Huntersville resident Robin Bradford.

Another community forum will take place on October 22 at 7:00 at St. Alban’s Church.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2009

photo by Bill Giduz

Students participate in a sushi-eating contest during halftime of the football game versus Morehead State Oct. 10. The contest, sponsored by Sabi, is part of a season-long football promotion called the Red and Black campaign.

Theatre Department

The play will be in the Duke Family Performance Hall at 8:00 p.m. on Friday and at 2:00 p.m. on Sunday.

To the Davidson Family,

Before I begin the next chapter in my life, I wanted to take this opportunity to personally thank all of the loyal alumni, students and fans of Davidson College who have so passionately supported me over the past three years. Davidson has been a part of making me the person who I am today and I will always remain a Wildcat at heart.

It is my hope that you will continue to support me as I begin my NBA journey. Whether in Golden State or wherever my basketball travels take me, you can be assured that I will always represent Davidson to the best of my ability. I plan on remaining an active member of the Charlotte and Davidson communities and intend on achieving my goal by earning my college degree.

My time at Davidson has left me with many lasting memories that I will cherish forever. I would also like to thank all of the coaches, teammates, professors, fans, alumni, trustees and staff who have mentored me along the way. I am proud to be a member of the Davidson family and look forward to giving back to the school and community that means so much to me.

Go Wildcats!

God Bless,

Stephen Curry
Phil. 4:13