ie a ahs a ae & ‘The Davidsonian’ staff received events. “We maintain a principle of not allowing anyone to write about an activity of which they are a member. Granted, this can prove difficult in a school where many students (and accordingly writers) are involved in a variety of activities and organizations. We also do not allow athletes to report on their team’s games in Sports, or Arts writers to, for example, review a play in which they perform. For obvious reasons, our standards regarding the Perspectives section are very different. The articles in this section are opinion pieces and in no way represent the views of The Davidsonian. The intent and purpose of Perspectives is to serve as a forum for Davidson affiliates. As such, we do not actively direct content unless the section is short on submissions. We generally accept articles dealing with any topic and expressing any opinion—as long as it is within good taste. The realms of good taste are largely discretionary, meaning that we publish articles that occasionally we deem acceptable, if debatable (as you may have guessed, The Yow! demands a rather liberal interpretation of respectability). Space constraints mandate a first-come, first-serve basis, with the exception of time-sensitive submissions. 

We hope for articles that have well-formed, argued, and logical opinions. Although articles dealing with non-Davidson topics are certainly welcome, we encourage pieces dealing with issues affecting Davidson students. As always, any reader is welcome to submit a letter to the editor in response to a previously published article.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief
Katherine Miller & Brian Moran

Managing Editor
Kate Kelly

News Editors
Katherine Johnson & Caroline Wood

Perspectives Editors
Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris

Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Gambrell

Yow! Editors
Alex Greening & Josh Tobin

Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis

Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Kelsey Lilley

Business & Circulation Managers
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright

Online Editor
Greg Newman

Content Manager
Kelly Beggs

Section Copy Editors
Alex Kowaleski & Nami Patel

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Consensus is hard to find in national party politics, but there is at least one thing that Democrats, Republicans, public opinion, and even economists can agree upon: we are experiencing the beginning of a very, very serious economic downturn. More specifically, we are in the beginning of what will probably be the worst recession since the Great Depression. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, over 3.5 million people have lost their jobs since the beginning of this downturn, and job losses show no signs of stopping. This economic crisis, spurred by the collapse of the housing bubble and the frenzy of speculation that it fed, dominated last fall’s elections. Now that Barack Obama is President with huge Democratic majorities in both houses of Congress, the government is beginning to do something about it—in this case, through massive fiscal stimulus.

The case for stimulus is straightforward. As with any economic downturn, rational behavior for individuals makes us all better off. Facing falling demand, businesses cut back production and trim costs, meaning laying off workers. Facing potential layoffs or pay cuts, workers cut back on spending and save more, but of course this means that demand falls further. In addition, government tax revenues drop as business declines and unemployment claims increase, so government revenues fall while costs rise. For state and local governments who have very limited ability to borrow money, this means they must cut services or raise taxes, meaning more layoffs, less demand, and an intensification of the cycle. Ordinarily, we would rely on the Federal Reserve to break the cycle with interest rate cuts, but the Fed has been cutting rates all year, and they are now about as low as they can possibly go. This leaves one economic institution to fill the void, and that is the Federal Government, acting through fiscal stimulus.

In order to improve the situation, Congress needs to spend a tremendous amount of money, and spend it quickly, although it should be spent on worthwhile projects that will have lasting benefits if possible. These imperatives often conflict, so the original bill proposed in the House of Representatives contained a hodgepodge of different components. Some of it consisted of miscellaneous and possibly wasteful spending, but the bulk of the $900 billion bill consists of tax rebates, infrastructure spending, and aid to state and local governments that would otherwise have to cut essential services—or at least it did, before it reached the Senate.

The problem with our current situation is that, while most economists would consider the second paragraph of this column fairly bland boilerplate, the Republicans and a number of moderate Democrats disagree. After spending profligately on tax cuts for the wealthy and the military for all eight years of the Bush Administration, Congressional Republicans have determined that any further spending is irresponsible, no matter that basic macroeconomics disagrees. In the House, where the minority is fairly powerless, no Republicans voted for the bill at all, even though the economy hasn’t shed jobs this quickly since 1929. Instead, the Republicans provided a counterproposal that consisted entirely of permanent tax cuts for the wealthy and a measure that would be less effective as stimulus while still bankrupting the government in the long term. In the Senate, after a debate in which Republicans helpfully...described the physical size of one trillion dollar bills as an argument against the bill, Republicans and moderate Democrats reached a compromise that would reduce the size of the bill by about $86 billion. But while this revision might be a good excuse for some self-congratulatory back-slapping and platitudes about bipartisanship, the cuts make this a much worse bill, which economists like Dean Baker and Nobel Laureate Paul Krugman estimate will cost 500,000 to 600,000 jobs. In particular, $40 billion of these cuts come out of aid to state governments, meaning that states will have to lay off teachers and firefighters in order to balance their budgets. Now, this bill is far from perfect, and any spending bill of its size that makes it through Congress will have wasteful, pointless, or even actively harmful provisions that please some constituency or another, but now is not the time to wait on perfection. We need action now to mitigate the recession, and it’s clear from the debate in Congress that (most of) the Democratic Party is serious about keeping the economy above water, while the Republicans have decided to make a point about some perverse vision of fiscal responsibility. This might not make sense to an economist or to one of the 600,000 Americans laid off last month, but it’s worth remembering that politicians lose their jobs in different ways than the rest of us. After all, if the economy collapses, it won’t be Republicans running for re-election in the middle of a depression. 

Zeke Webster ’09 is a political science major from Clemmons, N.C. Contact him at zewebster@davidson.edu.

---

Caring about the “big questions”

JEFF BANKS
Guest Columnist

Sometimes when I am having a deep conversation with friends, someone will say, “Wow, this is getting really philosophical.” That sentence almost always ends the conversation. It is as if this person has realized that we were in the abstract realm of philosophy and needed to come back to reality. But we were not discussing metaphysics, we were discussing some aspect of what it means to be human, what it means to be a Davidson student. We were discussing the “big questions,” questions about our values, the way we look at the world—our place in the world.

The following is what I mean by a “big question.” A friend of mine lost a member of her family recently and it got me thinking about my own mortality. Life is fragile and I have no idea when I am going to be gone. If I adopt the cliché and live every day like it is my last, then I will do things I enjoy and spend time with people I love. In spite of the fragility of life, though, statistics tell me that I have a pretty good chance of living until I am old. If I think I am going to live past tomorrow, then maybe I have to spend time on the practical aspects of life like doing my school work. It may not be fulfilling to do school work, but I know in the future it will pay off to have done it in college. As many of us realize, though, a tension sometimes arises between doing work and spending time doing something special or being with friends. I know I am guilty of passing up on a potentially memorable experience to concentrate on studying (not going to Detroit last year). This is an instance of the larger conflict of facing the fragility of life while having to deal with the necessities required for a prolonged existence.

And now the big questions appear. As students, how should our mortality affect how we approach our work? What should take priority, making sure every day is lived to its fullest or preparing for the future? What does it mean to find a balance between the two?

Sometime in the course of our thinking as a culture, we have confused these “big questions” about examining our lives with those of abstract philosophy. That is not to say discussing philosophy is bad, but I realize most people think it is useless and meaningless. Yet, questions about our values and our views of the world are not useless and meaningless; they are essential. They are essential to giving us a sense of who we are and what we should be doing right now in college. If these questions are put into the same neglected category as abstract philosophy, then we are all depriving ourselves of something. These questions must be out in the open so that we can discuss and challenge each other with them. At the very least, discussing these questions allows us to connect with others on a deeper level. There may not be a great “aha!” moment when you suddenly discover your values and vocation, as this process is a life-long one, but you will be able to learn from the views of others. Isn’t that why we came to a small, liberal arts college, to connect with others on a meaningful level? To learn about ourselves on a deeper level? Give yourself the chance to get to know others and yourself. Go and explore these questions with friends, professors, parents, or anyone willing to talk. Imagine what the authors you read in class would say about what it means to be human. Talk to someone like yourself or to someone completely unlike yourself. Everyone has important views, but you must give them the chance to express them.

If you read this article and disagree with me that these questions are neglected or avoided, then I ask for your help. If you discuss these questions already, then I ask for your help. You are further along in clarifying your views than I am, than many of us are. Help us through this process, get others interested in talking about the “big questions.” College is the best environment for discussing these questions, and our time here goes by so fast.

Jeff Banks ’11 is undeclared. He is from Wilmette, Ill. Contact him at jebanks@davidson.edu.