4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

KELLY BEGG
Staff Writer

This spring, flowers will not be the only plants on Davidson’s gardening agenda. Physical Plant will introduce a new genre
of landscaping—one that can be enjoyed both visually and gastronomically—as Davidson begins an edible landscaping initiative, shifting the focus of
Davidson’s landscaping to incorporate agriculture into its aesthetics.

Davidson’s Director of Property Management and Grounds, Irvin Brawley, said, “We plan to start out slow and add more as
we go,” so later this month, blueberry bushes will be planted in front of Vail Commons, and, in March, an
herb and vegetable garden will be planted both in the front and the backside of Commons. When the garden begins
to yield its fruits, vegetables, and herbs, “Everything will be harvested by Vail Commons staff and used there,” Brawley said.

Brawley explained that “the plants and seeds will be funded by the grounds department. Most of the soil amendments and
the fertilizer will be compost and leaf mold that we have generated from clippings and leaves from the campus.” As
food prices continue to increase, homegrown food is certainly financially appealing. According to a recent New York Times article, the
Agriculture Department forecasts that food prices will increase 3.5 to 4.5 percent in 2009, so this landscaping innovation could be
both financially and environmentally desirable.

Alex Kowaleski ’11 wants to help Davidson students get involved in the agricultural process. “From my communications, Davidson landscaping is
quite eager to have students help them. Any student who wants to and is willing to get his or her
hands dirty is more than welcome,” he said. Brawley echoed Kowaleski’s hope that students will want to get involved, saying,
“We hope to have some assistance from students for planting and weed control.” Kowaleski noted potential problems that could arise
because of students, especially due to the garden’s proximity to Patterson Court, but firmly advocates student involvement. Kowaleski is trying
to organize a Horticulture Club, “in order to help organize students that want to help out with the gardens.”

This change in landscaping policy is a timely one, as Davidson has recently hosted speakers who have raised awareness over
food issues such as Eric Schlosser, author of Fast Food Nation, and Paul Roberts, author of The End of Food.
These authors shed light on the unfortunate environmental and social costs of the industrialized agriculture system, as well as the
system’s detriments to human health. In Davidson’s Year of Sustainability, the campus must heed warnings to assess food’s role in
the campus’s carbon footprint. Environmentally speaking, eating local food reduces the fossil fuel emissions created.

Shoe Drive, from page 1

Davidson, though noteworthy, is now secondary to headlines surrounding shoes. The Davidsonian is by no means alone in its coverage
of this cause. Already tuned into the Davidson basketball team’s progress this season, national media coverage even extends to the
event (an article found on USA Today.com entitled “Lovedale lends a helping hand on, off the court at Davidson” was
posted in December). Lovedale also received the honor of one of 30 nominations for the Lowe’s Senior CLASS Award. This
award focuses on rewarding Division I athletes for commitment to their school for four years along with outstanding leadership. “I
want to send a message home that you can mixsports, faith, and education. I’m a living testimony that you can
do all three together.” - Andrew Lovedale ’09

Officially titled “Kicks from ’Cats—The Andrew Lovedale Shoe Drive,” fans attending the Feb. 21 game are encouraged to bring a
new pair of shoes. In order to fund the shipment of the donations to Nigeria, the Davidson College Bookstore is
currently selling white shirts designed for the event and will donate proceeds to the cause. Estimated shipping costs are $10,000
for a 40-foot container. The preferred donation is men’s size three and up basketball shoes.

When asked what this year’s involvement means to him, Lovedale said, “it reinforces the strength of giving and what it
means when a whole community comes together.” He explained that the price of new shoes in Nigeria can cost a
family the equivalent of one month’s paycheck. Lovedale hopes that Davidson’s commitment to Kicks from ’Cats will inspire others to
follow his lead. “I want to send a message home that you can mix sports, faith, and education,” he said.
Lovedale explained that many people from home feel they have to trade-off between these three paths. “I’m a living testimony
that you can do all three together.”

Blackout Belk last weekend was a sell-out game. While a mixture of excitement and disappointment permeated last weekend’s game, the
White Out game hopes to both entertain fans and motivate them towards a level of commitment in supporting the lives
of all people at home and abroad. Given the importance of the Butler game alone, attendance at the White Out
game predictably will be high. The effort and commitment from the Davidson community to ensure the success of this year’s
Kicks from ’Cats initiative is seen by Lovedale as “an opportunity for others to be inspired.”

By transporting food long distances, and the processing, refrigerating, and packaging of food creates additional energy waste. Attentive locavores measure
“food miles,” the distance that food travels from a farm to household. Grocery stores average about 1,500 food miles for
much of their produce, but with this initiative, Commons will soon serve some food items that have traveled a matter
of feet. Brawley also asserted that the garden will be conscious of more than just location: “We will be organic.
Fertilizer will be compost, and pesticides, if needed, will be organic as well.”

Though Brawley plans to start the project slowly, the birth of the edible landscaping initiative already shows that Davidson is
examining how it can reassess its food policy to make the campus more sustainable. Perhaps this initiative will eventually lead
to a new meal plan option: the option to eat locally.

Substantial scholarships, up to full-tuition, are now being awarded to top applicants for a new one-year Master’s Program in Finance
beginning Fall 2009. Acquire the expertise you will need to succeed in the marketplace of the future. Leverage a dedicated
career specialist and extensive alumni network in entering the market. Build your leadership potential in the co-curricular program and meet
with distinguished speakers.

For more information, or to apply, visit www.claremontmckenna.edu/rdsgraduate or contact us at rdsadmission@cmc.edu.

THE ROBERT DAY SCHOOL
CLAREMONT MCKENNA COLLEGE
500 E. NINTH STREET, CLAREMONT, CA 91711
TEL: 909-607-3347
