4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

With just eight weeks remaining in his term, Student Government Association (SGA) President Davis Greene ’09 used last Thursday’s SGA
meeting to outline his agenda for 2009: possible changes to the campus TV network, reforms of the chartering process for
campus organizations, and a series of student forums related to a comprehensive curriculum review.

The CAT-TV system currently consists of 56 channels. The package allows for some channels to be swapped for others: alternatives
to the current channels include Food Network, Oxygen, Military, and Country Music Television. In the next few weeks, an e-mail
survey will be conducted asking students about their satisfaction with the current channel selection, and their preferences for which channels
(if any) to drop and which to add.

The charter reform effort will be led by Greene and SGA Senator Emily Cannon ’09. Greene felt there was a
need to reform the process after noticing that 56 organizations were currently chartered and there was a rising trend. Such
growth would dilute the funds available to organizations and leave them without enough resources to meet their goals. Currently, students
need only meet three requirements to receive a charter: they must have an active membership, be registered with the Director
of Student Activities, and have a written statement of purpose. Charters are never renewed, and once an organization has a
charter it can begin receiving funding from the Activities Tax Council.

Some students already had suggestions about the process. Senator Severin Tucker ’09 suggested that the SGA take into account the
ratio of dollars spent to active members of a given organization. Senator Kate Sternstein ’09 expressed concern about using that
metric to evaluate organizations—such as the equestrian club—that have a high cost per student but add significantly to student life
at the college.

The student curriculum review forums will be a joint effort between the SGA and J.T. Kimbrough Professor of Mathematics John
Swallow. Swallow is currently heading a comprehensive curriculum review under the broader effort of the college’s Strategic Assessment. The review
is exploring a wide range of topics including distribution requirements, as well as evaluating the success and future of team-taught
and interdisciplinary courses. Those recommendations may shape future decisions for faculty hires and capital projects. The SGA is discussing a
format for the forums. Senator Meikaela Zwieryznski ’10 suggested that a series of forums be hosted with varying themes, with
the intention of generating feedback from multiple groups.

A new campus publication was also announced at the meeting. Athletic Policy Committee chair Stephen Pierce ’10 unveiled a new
student newspaper that would be distributed exclusively at Davidson home basketball games. The currently-unnamed publication will consist of one to
two articles, one full-page ad, information on the Wildcats’ progress, and recommended chants—including such things as “the names of opposing
players’ girlfriends,” according to Pierce. The first issue will debut at Wednesday’s game.

The topic of basketball prompted a suggestion from Greene. At earlier basketball games in the season, he had noticed that
cheering and chants were not coordinated across the audience. Greene suggested creating the position of cheer coordinator in order to
prevent this problem from recurring.

The SGA has also formed a committee in response to the worsening economic situation and its impact on the college.
The Economic Situation Committee will be chaired by Richmond Blake ’09, and the committee’s focus is to generate student feedback
on ways to cut costs and better inform the student body on any changes to college operations. Blake also pointed
out that the college is committed to maintaining current financial aid packages, and that the Davidson Trust will remain financially
solvent, despite significant declines in the college’s endowment.in the Maine Democratic Party during the midterms, and they were influential in
my decision to apply for a summer internship,” said Watson. He replaced a woman who was quitting because of the
time commitments and started to work full time—“Seven days a week starting in June,” usually working between 12 and 15
hours a day. “My main motivation was the U.S. Senate race” in Maine, said Watson, who worked most specifically for
the Tom Allen campaign. “I really got involved with Tom Allen because I knew that he was an intelligent, compassionate
man who is a very skilled legislator.” Watson stressed the value of having solid Democratic candidates all the way down
the ticket. “Obama was a spark, but the rest of the ticket provided so much substance that [the voters] could
feel confident about the whole ticket...there was a lot of faith in the ticket,” he said.

While Watson’s emphasis was on local races as well as the national race, the Young Democrats here at Davidson College
were more exclusively focused on the Obama campaign, said Carella. The Democrat’s goal was to do “everything we possibly could”
to get Obama elected; there was much less emphasis on the local elections, although Carella noted that other Democratic candidates
like Kay Hagan, N.C.’s new Senator, were included in the Obama campaign’s canvassing efforts. Davidson College students were the main
staffers of an Obama campaign office in Kannapolis, and on the day of the election, Obama campaign volunteers, including Davidson
students, “knocked on a thousand doors and made over a thousand phone calls,” said Carella on election night.

While the Young Democrats were very focused on the campaign results, the College Republicans had a different sort of goal,
said Mike Jucewicz ’10. Jucewicz said that the Republican’s goal was to positively impact the historically negative image the Republicans
had on campus. The Republicans did sponsor some campaign events and activities. N.C. Republican Senator Richard Burr came to Davidson,
students canvassed the town with Fountain Walker and some students went to the local McCain campaign office off of exit
28. Overall, however, the group was much more focused on the Davidson College community. “That’s the way we had to
be,” said Jucewicz. The Republicans generally took much more passive efforts in the campaign. Jucewicz said that the group was
much more dialogue-centered, for example the bi-partisan Political Connection events co-sponsored by the campus Democrats and Republicans. Jucewicz pointed to
the group’s fundraising efforts for charity on September 11 as an example of the group’s magnanimous undertakings.

Both groups are looking toward the future, hoping to continue the progress they have made, although in two different arenas.
Jucewicz wants to “keep the positive momentum going” here on campus by keeping “the profile raised on campus...in a positive
way.” Carella hopes that the Democratic voices will continue to be heard and supported over the next four to eight
years, hoping that the efforts this campaign cycle translate into larger involvement and support for the Democratic Party in the
future. Powers, who worked for the McCain campaign, did not return a request for an interview.

The Ernest Finney Patterson Awards recognize and honor the life of Ernest Finney Patterson, beloved professor of economics at Davidson
College (1957-1979) and social activist. The Department of Economics will grant up to a total of $1,200 a year to
subsidize formal study, research, field work, or community service by currently enrolled students at Davidson College that promotes improving society
and bettering the human condition consistent with the personal ideals of Professor Patterson. Application forms are available at www.davidson.edu/academics/economics/economics.html and
the completed applications are due by February 1 to Dr. David Martin, chair of the Department of Economics.
