THE CONGESTED ISSUE
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2009

SKUNK WINS RUN-OFF ELECTION FOR SGA BATHROOM CHAIR
SEE PAGE 2

SENIORITIS VACCINE DEVELOPED: TOO MUCH SHIT TO DO
SEE PAGE 2

SOPHOMORE GIRL INJURED IN FREAK DUTCH OVEN ACCIDENT
SEE PAGE 5

BASKETBALL PLAYER WALKS SLOWLY, SWAYS FROM SIDE TO SIDE
SEE PAGE 10

A-Rod: “‘I SHOULD HAVE JUST PARTIED WITH PHELPS”’
SEE PAGE 4

THE YOWL
Your Davidson Honor

Section Editors:
Alex Greening
Gary Busey
Peter Bruton

Writers:
Amanda Ottaway
Brett Chikowski

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

Blackout Baroque Deemed a Huge Success

Charlotte—Last weekend the brothers of the Delta Upsilon Fraternity held a successful pledge education/date event at the Charlotte Opera House.

“Dude, The Magic Flute puts the Carolina Cup to shame,” said brother Chad Patrick ’09. “I have never been so wasted in my entire life.”

Charlotte resident Midge Wentworth “scopes the party”

The opera, not traditionally associated with fraternity events, was “Hang Out Central” on Friday. The brothers of Delta Upsilon started their night at their fraternity house with some heavy pre-gaming and then rode charter buses into Charlotte. The DU brothers, pledges, and dates soon found themselves surrounded by the wealthiest and best-educated art patrons in the greater Charlotte area. Undeterred, they proceeded to “bro out” and “frat hard” while being serenaded by the sweet sounds of Mozart’s The Magic Flute.

“I have never been so wasted in my entire life.”

“We knew after the Tchaikovsky rush event last semester we had to go back to the opera house. We got so many acceptances and the staff was cool with us boozing and smoking so we were all down,” Patrick commented.

Rather than conform to the Carolina Opera’s normal standards of decorum and restraint, DU overthrew the security and audience in a wave of smoke, swearing, and distinctly Southern dress.

“I was dressed in a seersucker suit.”

Union Board Hires World Renowned Jazz Pianist

Alvarez Student Union—In an effort to increase student happiness and foster an environment of stimulation and culture, the Union Board has hired a jazz pianist to play in the Union most weekday nights. George Doubtfire, a critically acclaimed jazz pianist, will call the second floor of the student union “home” for the next three years. After a tour throughout the Northeast which culminated in a solo performance at Carnegie Hall, he has decided he wants to get back to his roots and play for students.

“He graciously accepted a very low paying position. In fact, all he wanted was a couple of crackers, a can of spray cheese, and the chance to mingle with the Union Employees,” Union Board Vice President Hilary Flute said. “We are so lucky to have him, the effect on the students has been tremendous. He has been called the Yo Yo Ma of the keyboard.”

Doubtfire, originally hailing from Kalamazoo, Michigan, recently moved to Charlotte. Doubtfire started playing the piano after a freak foosball accident kept him out of contact sports. His love affair with the black and whites began shortly after.

“The summer of ’89 I did nothing but sleep and play piano. I had a bedpan rigged up and a tube to feed me. It was heaven.”

Music Professor Larry Usafwas ecstatic when hearing the news. “The man is a genius; I would argue he has done more for the piano than Picasso has done for painting. I wish our student body was more appreciative of his gift.” When asked to describe Doubtfire’s style, Usaf said, “Imagine Ray Charles, baptized by Judas Priest in a tower of Earth, Wind, and Fire. A magical smorgasbord of sound is created and we are not worthy to hear it.” Doubtfire is excited to be playing in front of a younger crowd and looks forward to his time at Davidson. The sleepy town of Davidson may not be able to handle the excitement that follows Doubtfire.

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER, February 11, 2009

Craig Gregory ’11, DU brother and patron of the arts and a bowtie. Everyone brought out their frattiest clothing for this. It’s a Southern tradition. “My dad told me about the crazy times he had when he pledged DU and saw King Roger,” freshman Ryan Bopkins commented. “I had passed out by the first act, it was just too much for me to handle. The guys were doing keg stands and shotgunning beers on the stage. The conductor took a shot of Jagermeister with me. It was ridiculous,” said president Dale “Dip” Roberts. This annual event has been a Delta Upsilon tradition for as long as anyone can remember. Roberts reminded students, “You know if you want the craziest time and the best party of the year, you go with DU to the opera. Nobody throws down like my boy Tamino. Nobody, bro.”

Phelps’ Big Hit

Michael Phelps, 14-time Olympic medalist and 23-year-old swimming champion, was shown smoking from a marijuana pipe in a University of South Carolina photo last week and is now immersed in controversy. The photo has prompted a wide range of reactions. He has been suspended from competition for three months and has been dropped by several of his sponsors. Many health and fitness professionals, however, are delighting in this new find. “Weedies: Breakfast of champions.”

“We were always aware of marijuana’s stimulating, energizing, and strengthening properties,” World Anti-Doping Administration president Robert Marley stated in a press conference this morning. “However, until Mike confessed to lighting up, we had no idea just how critical this drug actually is in the healthy development and improvement of the world’s greatest athletes.” U.S. Olympic team doctor Mary-Jane Davids has issued a press release of the most recent list of WADA-approved performance enhancers, which includes pineapple juice, Gatorade Fierce, and Captain Morgan. “These new discoveries will forever change the face of Olympic sports for the better,” she said. “They all include important substances which, when inhaled, injected, or snorted appropriately before competition, allow the athlete’s body to perform far beyond its normal limits.”

New sponsorship deals have arisen out of the controversy. High Times magazine interviewed Phelps, and Speedo is currently designing a swim cap that accommodates dreadlocks. A personal victory for Phelps is the creation of a new General Mills breakfast cereal in his honor. Weedies: the breakfast of champions, should be in local grocery stores by 4/20. Coach Bud Blaze sees no reason for alarm. “The boy can still swim fine,” he said between puffs. He first suspected Phelps’ pot use years ago, when “he had blood red eyes, but it ain’t from chlorine!”