The Davidsonian staff is currently engaged in a discussion about the institution and operation of the paper. We must consider the possibility of changing our organizational structure to ensure its existence in the future. Incidental to this discussion, the ensuing debate between print publication and online publication rears its head. Last week we posed the question of how best to approach the seeming decline of print journalism and the possible extinction of The Davidsonian—at least as a physical experience—and also took the side in favor of a continuing print publication. This week we'd like to explore the other side, which looks to the internet as a resolution to the paper’s financial problems and a means of expanding the content and reach of The Davidsonian.

The paper’s chronic financial problems primarily stem from the cost of printing and postage. The drops in funding result from a toughening economy and the decline of print journalism. We typically receive $32,000 in subscriptions and last year saw that figure drop by more than half. Our other source of revenue, advertising, has also declined this year as clients see fewer returns on their investments due to our smaller readership. By contrast, a recently proposed partnership with an online software suite promises to match and exceed our advertising projections this year, and the cost of the online edition remains minimal compared to the expenditures for printing. An online edition could create a hub for the campus’ social life, just as Davidson.edu is a hub for our academic and professional lives.

Editor-in-Chief
Brett Willis

News Editors
Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood

Perspectives Editors
Bryan Norris & Clint Smith

Arts & Living Editor
Yowi Editor Alex Greening

Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis

Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Nami Patel

Business & Circulation Managers
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright

Online Editor
Greg Newman

Assistant Copy Editors
Joel Fineman, Elizabeth Watts, Jeffrey Roth

Photography Staff
Tripp Bartholomew, Carey Leigh Evans, Bill Giduz & Amelia Montgomery

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Only the staff editorials represent the views of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Email Jordan Wall at jowall@davidson.edu for advertising inquiries.

Anpy Jones
Guest Columnist

Much has been made about the public option in the health care reform debate. I'll admit the name sounds pleasant enough, and depending on the poll, Americans narrowly support a “public option.” It’s a common feeling in America—I’m a member of the public, and I’ve seen firsthand the deficiencies of our system. The system now doesn’t work, maybe the government can do something. But what does a public option really mean? Will its addition actually help?

The fundamental principle of a public option is to create a government-run insurance company with the goals of providing uninsured citizens with a low-cost option and also to insert price-lowering competition in the private insurance marketplace. President Obama calls the public option “an additional step we can take to keep insurance companies honest.” Keeping fair competition and honesty in the system really seem to be proponents’ key arguments for a public option. Washington Post columnist E.J. Dionne describes the public option as a “monopoly-buster,” and many others have argued that it is a win-win system: providing a low-cost option for the uninsured and adding competition to the insurance marketplace to lower costs for us all.

Some public option proponents argue that the public option will be successful because of the “obscene and immoral” profits made by insurance companies. They argue that a public insurance plan will not be focused on making profit, and will thus be able to keep costs lower. A quick look at the data proves this effort to demonize insurance companies is false. Last year, health insurance companies posted a paltry 2.2 percent profit margin. A profit margin falling far behind those of such evil-doers as Tupperware Brands, Hershey, Clorox, and—a college student favorite—Molson Coors Brewing. An evil, profit-hungry market? I think not.

If the proposed public option were to be subsidized by taxpayer dollars, and subsequently able to offer insurance to all at incredibly low rates, it would drive private insurers out of the market. Adding to its public allure, President Obama and those in Congress have argued fervently that a public option would not be taxpayer funded and would be self-sustaining. Obama contends that, “like any private insurance company, the public insurance option would have to be self-sufficient and rely on the premiums it collects.” He also argues that it “would only be an option for those who don’t have insurance.” No one would be forced to choose it, and it would not impact those who already have insurance. Still sounds pretty good, right? Wrong. At its best, the public option will be an unnecessary government intrusion into the insurance marketplace. At its worst, the public option will quickly lead to a single-payer healthcare system in the...United States. If we are actually interested in increasing market competition, does it not make sense to allow Americans to buy insurance plans across state borders? Think about the argument for a second. If the public option truly conforms to the competition and regulations imposed on private insurers, there is no reason for it. If it relies solely on the premiums it collects and is not subsidized by the taxpayer, it will not be able to offer any health care alternative lower than what the market currently bears. If it is restricted by the same limitations of the free market, then one can safely assume that it cannot produce any substantively different outcome than current private insurers. In this case, the public option is an uncalled-for government intervention into the marketplace. As George Will summarized, “unless the point of a government plan is to be cheaper, it is pointless.” So, what’s the point? In its worst form, the public option will lead to a single-payer healthcare system. If the proposed public option were to be subsidized by taxpayer dollars and permanently able to offer insurance to all at incredibly low rates, it would drive private insurers out of the market. How does this work? If the government can offer an uncompetitively low-cost insurance option (and, of course, this is exactly what it is meant to do as George Will points out), private insurers will continue to lose business. What company will pay for employee health care coverage when the government is offering it cheaper? What individual will pay for a more expensive health care plan when they are already subsidizing a government program that would offer it to them for less? Considered in this light, the public option certainly looks like a road to single-payer health care. Medical innovation in these single-payer countries is lacking, and there is no doubt that the health care system in America cures a whole range of the most serious conditions better and more rapidly than our single-payer counterparts. This is not just the view of a pessimistic conservative. For many liberal leaders in Congress, this “slippery slope” public option is not a worst-case scenario but the ultimate goal. Massachusetts Democrat Barney Frank has stated, “I think if we get a good public option, it could lead to single-payer, and that’s the best way to reach single-payer.” At a recent town hall meeting, Democratic Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky said bluntly, “a public option will put the private insurance industry out of business and lead to single-payer.” The room erupted in cheers. We’ve all heard horror stories from the United Kingdom, Canada, and elsewhere that tell us of a single-payer system ruining health care. Lack of options, extremely long waits, and inefficiency plague this system. In Britain, nearly 20 percent of those diagnosed with colon cancer are incurable by the time they are offered treatment. In Canada, many wait weeks, months, or even years to see the specialists they need. Because of inefficiencies, many Canadians are either traveling to the United States for effective medical care or utilizing the nascent illegal underground health care system that has taken shape. Medical innovation in these single-payer countries is lacking, and there is no doubt that the health care system in America cures a whole range of the most serious conditions better and more rapidly than our single-payer counterparts. In an effort to make health care a “right” for all, instituting a single-payer system will abridge that right for many. I don’t know what Congresswoman Schakowsky’s constituents were cheering for, but I certainly hope it was not this. To declare that the private insurance market has failed—when, in reality, it is indeed government intrusion that has prevented true competition in the insurance market—is disingenuous. If we are actually interested in increasing market competition, does it not make sense to allow Americans to buy insurance plans across state borders? This allows individuals to take advantage of the diversity of options and true competition that abounds when our nation’s roughly 1,300 health insurance companies compete to meet your needs at the lowest cost. There are other real reforms that can work to lower cost, increase options, and help you get the most out of your healthcare plan: reform tort law to end the need for excessive defensive medicine practices, modify the tax code so that individuals and families receive an insurance tax credit just like employers, allow pooling for greater insurance choice and portability, strengthen existing state insurance programs for those with preexisting conditions, and allow insurers to offer lower premiums for healthy lifestyles. These options are certainly not the silver bullet to effective health care reform, but they’d go a long way in helping to make insurance options more affordable and available for all. Americans can see right through the public option myth. There are 60 Democrats in the Senate and 256 in the House of Representatives. If the public option was an effective solution and popularly supported, Democrats alone could easily pass the bill. They haven’t. It’s time for politicians to stop pushing ideological and political agendas and to reform health care with Americans' true interest in mind.

Andy Jones '10 is a political science major from Wilmington, NC. Contact him at arjones@davidson.edu