THE DAVIDSONIAN

Gamecocks prove to be too much for ’Cats

SPORTS

Wildcat Pulse

A great game for a great cause

JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

The Davidson men’s tennis team faltered against another ranked opponent on Saturday, losing to the No. 51 University of South Carolina 7-0 at the USC Indoor Field House. The Wildcats were outmatched by the strong South Carolina team, losing all three doubles matches and all six singles matches.

Scott Myers ’09 and Calum Gee ’12 played the closest doubles superset, finishing with an 8-4 loss to Diego Cubas and Ivan Machado at the No. 1 spot. Walker Lyons ’11 and Brandon Byrd ’09 lost their No. 2 doubles match 8-2. David Warren ’10 and Carter Braxton ’11 lost their No. 3 doubles match by the same 8-2 score.

The Wildcats fared no better in the singles matches; all six singles spots lost in straight sets. The highlight of the singles matches was the debut of Tareq Alani ’10. He saw the court for the first time this season at the number six singles spot, but was unable to capture a win, losing 6-2, 6-4.

The Wildcats have two games this upcoming week. The ’Cats defeated Gardner-Webb 5-2 to end their four-match losing streak on Tuesday, Feb. 10. “This was a must-win for this team. Coming off playing a string of very tough opponents, we need this for confidence,” Lyons said, “We showed good heart and fought well for the doubles point, which carried over into singles where we were able to come through with big wins to take the match.”

Davidson’s record now stands at 2-4 on the season and hopes to build on the confidence taken from Tuesday’s win. The team returns to the court Valentine’s Day to take on USC Upstate at 10 a.m. at home.

Staff Writer

Women’s basketball’s Saturday matchup against Chattanooga presents major implications for the Cats’ SoCon dreams. It also represents a good humanitarian effort, as the ’Cats host their annual Pink Zone fundraiser for breast cancer. With tip-off set for 2 p.m., the first 200 fans through the turnstiles will pick up a Davidson sign scroll. The first 150 will snag a fashionable pair of pink Crocs.

For the women’s basketball community, this game takes a personal angle. Legendary N.C. State coach Kay Yow passed away this year from the disease. Bringing the connection even closer to home, Head Coach Annette Watts coached the Wolfpack as an assistant under Yow.

The game itself should be thrilling, as the ’Cats face Chattanooga’s league-leading 15-1 conference record. Currently riding a 10-game winning streak, the Mocs just knocked off College of Charleston 72-61 at home. Their sights are already set on March. The ’Cats are hungry to avenge their close 76-69 loss at Chattanooga earlier this season. If Davidson can return to its former shooting glory, especially from three-point range, the game will rest in the home team’s hands. An energetic first half, quashing Chattanooga’s quick offensive attack, is a must.’10 and Mercedes Robinson ’09 will need another double-digit scoring outing against the Mocs. Perhaps even more pressing, the bench players must extend the seven points they contributed against Chattanooga the last time around. With control of possession—snagging rebounds and conquering the press—the Wildcats will run their own game.

Elon, from page 12

In the first half, one variable seemed nearly impossible to control—Greensboro hit 62 percent from the floor, including five three-pointers. After a frenetic run by the Spartans to end the half, Davidson walked into the locker room down 17. The fire, however, was not yet extinguished, especially on defense. The ’Cats responded with a near shutdown strategy. They limited Greensboro to 29 points, and even more impressive, a 28 percent shooting tally. If Davidson only matched this lights-out intensity the first 20 or so minutes, it may have been a different game.

On offense, meanwhile, the Wildcat leading scorers—Robinson and Lax—were held to nine for 32 shooting. Help inside kept the game within reach, as Mandy Halbersleben ’09 pulled down six rebounds and put up 10 points. Davidson even managed to score 17 points off offensive rebounds. Despite her poor shooting, Robinson managed to rack up her 14th double-double this season, tying her career record. Her consistent presence, along with the bundle of energy provided by the likes of Thompson and Halbersleben, must drive the team through its final five SoCon matchups.

With a respectable 8-7 record, the ’Cats head into a tough home stretch against conference leaders Chattanooga and Samford. Both teams contributed to the six-game skid, and Davidson will undoubtedly approach these match-ups with a vengeance. If the squad comes out fired up from the opening whistle, it may prove its initial 7-0 run was no fluke.

Women’s Basketball vs. UTC
Sat. @ 2:00, Belk Arena

In the midst of a three-game homestand, Davidson hosts SoCon-leading Chattanooga on Saturday afternoon. The game is part of the annual WBCA Pink Zone event to raise awareness for breast cancer. The Mocs defeated the ’Cats 76-69 in the team’s first meeting on Jan. 17.

Outside the Den
No. 3 North Carolina at No. 4 Duke
Wed. @ 8:00, ESPN

North Carolina travels a short distance down Tobacco Road to Cameron Indoor Stadium to take on Duke in arguably the nation’s best college basketball rivalry. The winner will take over sole possession of first place in the ACC as both teams enter the game tied for first place with identical 7-2 conference records.

Invest in You
Invest Now

Substantial scholarships, up to full tuition, are now being awarded to top applicants for a new one-year Master's Program in Finance beginning Fall 2009.
- Acquire the expertise you will need to succeed in the marketplace of the future.
- Leverage a dedicated career specialist and extensive alumni network in entering the market.
- Build your leadership potential in the co-curricular program and meet with distinguished speakers.

For more information, or to apply, visit www.claremontmckenna.edu/rdsgraduate or contact us at rdsadmission@cmc.edu.

THE ROBERT DAY SCHOOL
CLAREMONT MCKENNA COLLEGE
500 E. NINTH STREET, CLAREMONT, CA 91711
TEL: 909-607-3347