4 THE DAVIDSONIAN News

SGA welcomes new senators

CRISTINA BUSTILLO
Staff Writer

During its weekly meeting last Thursday, the Student Government Association swore in the recently elected Freshmen Senators. The short ceremony began with a few words by SGA President Meikaela Zwierzynski '10, where she encouraged the new members to participate as actively as possible and to commit fully to their new position. Following this, the new senators took an oath where they promised to abide by the SGA bylaws and to carry out their position to the best of their abilities. The freshmen class President is Naa Amerley Amarteifio '13, and the senators are John David Merill '13, Paul DiFiore '13, Alex Hauer '13, Supriya Wadhwa '13, and John David Ike '13.

After this short ceremony, the SGA got down to business and some of the Committee heads made a short presentation where they explained what their committee does and what the main goals for this semester are. Jenner Gibson '11 began with a presentation of the Academic Policy Committee; in the past, this committee has done things such as the optional cover letter for the transcripts. This year, their main concern is trying to achieve a balance between the classes offered and demand for the classes. They are concerned that some classes are in very high demand and not enough sections are offered for the number of students that need to take them, while other classes are offered and a very small number of students are actually interested or need to take the class.

Following Gibson’s presentation, Elliot Campbell '11 introduced the Admissions and Financial Aid Committee. This committee was designed as a liaison between the Admissions and Financial Aid Office and SGA. At this time, the committee is trying to find an objective for the semester since in the past they have found that it is very hard for current students to affect the admissions process. The committee members are welcoming any suggestions for their committee.

This concluded the committee presentations and Zwierzynski took the floor, with her intervention on behalf of the Information Technology Services (ITS) office. ITS has expressed a strong interest in being in constant communication with the SGA, and has suggested that a member of SGA becomes a student liaison between SGA and ITS. What ITS wishes to achieve with this is the successful integration of technology into the life of Davidson students and to hear the main concerns of the student body concerning technology.

After addressing this issue, Zwierzynski addressed the issue of the SGA Website. There have been ongoing discussions and the idea of creating a website where all Davidson students can participate actively. They wish to include the possibility of asking questions, giving feedback, and participating in discussion boards on this site. There have been some delays in getting the webpage running because it requires a complex set-up. So far, SGA has been unable to find someone that has the time and skills to create this webpage. SGA anticipates the project to be completed in the near future.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2009

Thatcher Professor of Philosophy Lance Stell, who is also the director of Davidson’s Medical Humanities Program, spoke last Thursday on “Physicians’ Integrity and Ties to Industry” in the 900 Room.

Cockman agreed. “We're really trying to do more events.”

WALT, from page 1

OTTER

09/15/09 02:20 Noise Disturbance
Officers received a call from an anonymous person advising of a loud party in Tomlinson. The officer observed six or seven students in the room. In the middle of the room was an apparent drinking game. On the floor next to the wall was a fifth of Canadian Lake whisky. The residents of the room took full responsibility for the party, and the liquor. The officer requested the liquor to be poured out. The subjects were very cooperative during the call.

09/16/2009 13:04 Other
Officers met with a Davidson College employee. The officer spoke with the subject about several recent emails that he had been receiving, along with a few visits, from a female subject. The subject stated that he was a little concerned about the recent contact that the subject had been initiating with him and felt it was necessary to finally contact campus police via email. The investigating officer advised the subject to start formal documentation of the emails and visits from the female subject. The officer advised to contact/update campus police of any further actions that may be taken by this subject.

09/16/09 22:35 Snake
Officers were contacted on the officer cell phone in reference to a snake in Duke Dormitory, 113 Dormitory Dr. Upon arrival, the reporting officer observed a 3-foot black snake in the main lobby near the elevator. The reporting officer placed the snake in a plastic bag, transported the snake to a wooded area, and released the snake.

09/17/09 01:15 Suspicious Activity
Officers, while on routine patrol, observed three people behind Turner House, 119 Patterson Ct. Cir. The reporting officer asked the three students why they were behind Turner House. The subjects claimed they were just talking and trying to stay out of the rain. The reporting officer continued a conversation for approximately ten minutes, talking about several recent campus topics. During the conversation, the reporting officer noticed that one student never took his right hand out of his pocket, even while using his cell phone. The reporting officer also noticed several other nonverbal cues that led him to believe that the student might be hiding something. The reporting officer separated the student from the other two students and questioned him. The reporting officer asked the student what he was...Hiding from the officer, and he stated nothing. Reporting officer asked the student for consent to search his person, and he agreed. While conducting a search, the reporting officer found a glass pipe in the right pocket. The reporting officer called for assistance in the investigation. The reporting officer asked if the other two students had anything illegal on them, and he stated that one of the other students had some drugs. The reporting officer asked for the substance, and he removed a long white sock from a pocket. Inside the sock was a zip lock bag containing a small amount of drugs. The seized items were photographed and placed into evidence.

listentowalt.com broadcasts all of WALT’s shows live and enables friends and parents of students to access the Davidson music scene. To listen to the show currently playing, one simply has to press the “Listen Now” button. Shows broadcast at different hours every day, so there is always something to rock out to. If you're not a very attentive individual, you may not have noticed WALT’s station holed away on the top floor of the Union. However, the executive board is making great efforts to further Davidson community involvement. For example, WALT offers a mobile DJ service for the Davidson College and town communities. They can be hired to DJ events and provide the music and equipment for only $65 an hour (significantly less than other DJs). If you’re interested, WALT will be DJing “After Midnight” this coming weekend in the Union — stop by to check it out.

Parker is in charge of booking shows for Summit and said that she hopes that there will be “a few WALT sponsored music nights this semester and next where we can showcase some crazy talented students.” “I’m really hoping that this year WALT can bring the music community at Davidson together,” Parker continued. “We’ve got some incredible resources, contacts, and capabilities, and I’m looking forward to really utilizing those.”

Jim’s career-long track record of achieving successful results for his clients has earned him recognition throughout NC and among his peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named to the Best Lawyers in America publication consistently for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina. As a former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the State for his commitment to justice and his exceptional litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience, he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people who have been injured by the negligent or criminal conduct of others. Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove and attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. As a member of the Lions Club, Jim also serves on the boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

APPEALS + BANKRUPTCY + BUSINESS LAW COLLECTIONS + ESTATE PLANNING

Jim Fuller and “Sandy” Carnegie

Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill)
Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-1699
www.meintoshlawfirm.com

Over the years, WALT has formed important relationships with promotional companies for record labels. Currently, WALT music directors James Davis ’12 and Alexis Valauri-Orton ’12 are the liaisons between Davidson and these companies. So here’s another reason to listen to WALT: these companies give WALT access to CDs weeks before they are released to the public. The various shows on WALT play the brand-new songs, record the responses from students, and provide feedback for the promotion companies. The participants in WALT are excited for a new year and new listeners. “I really hope people will listen to all the shows on WALT because our DJs put a lot of time into crafting the perfect playlist for your listening pleasure,” WALT DJ Ali Sutton ’10 said. So, if you find yourself bored with your iTunes selection and are in the mood for something different, tune in any day of the week to www.listentowalt.com. If you hear something you like or just really want to talk to the DJs, call the station phone at 704-894-2471. “WALT serves as a catalyst for the expansion of music diversity at Davidson College,” Cockman said. “And we’ll melt your face off,” Cangemi added.

Injury Attorneys

Prosser D. “Sandy” Carnegie has spent almost 30 years representing clients who have suffered substantial injuries due to another person's negligence or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the law including contract preparation and review, residential and commercial closings, land development and acquisition, as well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia. In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community. Sandy, a Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as a commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of Williams Masonic Lodge #176, A.F. & A.M., and has coached youth football, basketball, and baseball in the Davidson, Cornelius, and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION + PERSONAL INJURY REAL ESTATE + WILLS & TRUSTS