THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009

Pirates of Penzance

BEN IRELAND
Staff Writer

Ahoy, mateys! Aye, this Friday and Saturday night will be one of thrills and twists within pirates’ midst! The Davidson College Music Department’s opera workshop will present Gilbert and Sullivan’s entertaining operetta "Pirates of Penzance" on November 6 and 7 at 7:30 in Tyler-Tallman Hall. Jacquelyn Culpepper, the current Artist Associate of Voice at the college, will be directing this operetta along with the eloquent wit and stage direction of accomplished director and regisseur, Carey Kugler.

The cast of sixteen students, four faculty, two staff members, two community members, and an alumnus combine their voltaic cascade of musical and theatrical talent to present an operetta that will ensure hilarity and musical vibrancy. The lead roles are filled by Caitlin McCarville ’10 as Mabel, Rieti Gengo as Frederick, Jared Smith ’11 as the Major General, and Daniel Tart ’11 as the Pirate King. Krista Johnson ’12 plays Ruth and Patrick Scully ’12 fills the role of Police Sergeant.

“This production is very much in ‘workshop style,’” Culpepper said. “That means the set is minimal with only three flats and costumes are not elaborate.” Interestingly, operettas by Gilbert and Sullivan have been quite popular with liberal arts institutions. “The Opera Workshop class has met only one night a week since the first week of school, a daunting task alone,” Culpepper added. “That being said, the cast is doing a fabulous job. I call it ‘laugh therapy’ as well as ‘music therapy,’ and the production has brought people together who might never have met.”

"Pirates of Penzance" is a comical operetta in which Frederick, the son of a wealthy 19th-century gentleman, was originally meant to be apprenticed to a pilot. Instead, because of his nearly deaf nursemaid, he was apprenticed to a pirate. And not just any pirate, mind you, but the Pirate King, leader of the not-so-fierce Pirates of Penzance. Later, Frederick falls in love with the charming Mabel, but his vocation stands between him and marriage to his beloved. What ultimately becomes of this situation? Find out this weekend during the performance!

“Being in the show has offered me the ability to learn about musical expression and effect through an enjoyable medium,” Jared Smith ’11 said. “Often classical singers get caught in the technicality of vocal production and forget that our task is to entertain. That’s exactly what this show is teaching us to do: entertain.”

“Penzance is an opera, so I had to focus on my classical singing and technique more than I have done in other shows,” Johnson said. “It has been a lot of fun to work with all the people in the cast. The leads are all students, but we have professors, community members, and even Fountain Walker in the cast! Overall it has been so much fun, and I can’t wait for people to come and see what we’ve done.”

McCarville also enjoyed her experience. “I’ve never had this big of a role in anything, and it solidified my decision to go to graduate school for vocal performance,” she said. “The hardest part is trying not to burst out into laughter during our rehearsals because Gilbert & Sullivan wereGenius, and the cast is very funny.” Admission to the show is free. Because of limited seating, though, viewers are kindly asked to claim their seats five minutes prior to the 7:30 start time. Tickets are required for attendance and are available at the Union box office. For further information, please contact dafruchtman@davidson.edu. Aye, come then and enjoy Pirates of Penzance with a chum—yo ho ho and a bottle of rum!

In murky waters
ABBEY THIBEAULT
Staff Writer

Students in Davidson frequently dine at Bonsai and Sabi, two popular restaurants in town that are known for top-notch sushi. Sushi was first introduced to the United States in Los Angeles, CA in the 1960s. Today, it seems more popular than ever. But before you gulp down that “Godzilla Roll” at Bonsai, contemplate the origins of that spicy tuna. The risks of consuming fish are often forgotten when in the presence of a tuna roll. Most fish consumed in the United States is farm-raised. So, before you eat your next sushi roll, consider the impact of fish farming on the environment.

Aquaculture, or fish farming, originated in China several thousand years ago, where people raised common carp in ponds. Now, most fish is farm-raised. The reliance on fish farming intensifies as demand for fish increases. The Food and Agriculture division of the United Nations estimates that an additional 40 million tons of aquatic food will be required each year by 2030 to maintain current levels of consumption. Only Japan and China consume more fish than the United States. As more and more people have recognized the importance of seafood as part of a healthy diet, fish consumption has increased. The ocean, unfortunately, is unable to supply enough fish to meet demand. Fish farming compensates for this lack.

There are actually some benefits to fish farming: it creates jobs in production, processing, and sales. In fact, the total number of exports from fisheries around the world generates more revenue than any other traded food commodity, including rice, cocoa, and coffee. In some instances, fish farming aids the environment. Mussels and other filter-feeders are raised on ropes suspended in the ocean. This does not harm the mussels and helps to clean waters.

Despite these positive attributes, fish farming poses several problems. Most of the fish consumed in the United States is imported. Unfortunately, the government cannot regulate aquaculture abroad, so the quality of imports is questionable. There is currently a push for strict global fish farming regulations. Fish farming can also be detrimental to the environment. Salmon are raised in net pens, which allow the waste generated by the salmon to pollute surrounding water. Moreover, without strict regulations, fish farms can skirt ecological and economic regulations. For example, in Thailand and Ecuador, mangrove forests were cut down and replaced with shrimp farms. Mangroves guard the coast, protect against erosion, and are home to a diverse array of organisms, including the endangered manatee. These fish farms degraded the water and most eventually closed. Open water net systems allow uneaten food, fish waste, drugs, and chemicals to enter the surrounding waters and harm the immediate ecosystems. By using a closed recirculating system, fish farms can better control and treat wastewater. Improvement can also be accomplished by a variety

See Fishy, page 6