Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The Manic Issue
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2009

Papa JOHN CLINCHES NOBEL PIZZA PRIZE
SEE PAGE 8

JUNIOR WOWS BIO CLASS WITH NAME OF DANGLY THING IN BACK OF THROAT
SEE PAGE 6

BOOKSTORE TO PARTNER WITH THE SHARPER IMAGE; EXPAND MASSAGE CHAIR SELECTION
SEE PAGE 6

FRESHMAN SOMEHOW CONVINCED THAT “A KNIGHT’S TALE” WAS A GOOD MOVIE
SEE PAGE 6

MICHAEL JACKSON: TOO SOON. RIP
SEE PAGE 3

OF THE WEEK SEARCH: **BLACK DYNAMITE TRAILER**

Your Davidson Honor

Section Editors:
Alex Greening
Nick Nolte

Writers:
Lauren Odomirok
Amanda Ottaway
Brian Correa
Brian Park

Note: The Yow is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

For Parents’ Weekend

Arsh Light of Morn Sage

Do’s and Don’t’s

DO:
* Go out to dinner
* Introduce them to your friends
* Go on a grocery run
* Discuss your workload
* Say you’re low on money
* Meet your friends’ parents
* Show them how you get around campus

DON’T:
* Go out to Shoney’s
* Introduce them to your drunken hook-up
* Go on a naked run
* Discuss how far behind you are
* Say what you will spend it on
* Meat your friends’ parents
* Show them how you get around the Honor Code

A Night With The ‘Cats

It looks like Davidson College has seen the last of its honored tradition “A Night With the ‘Cats,” the dance
performances that highlight the beginning of the men’s and women’s basketball seasons. On a jam-packed, festive night that included tributes
to Miley Cyrus, Michael Jackson, Slumdog Millionaire, rock n’ roll, Beyoncé and even an enthusiastic President Ross’s participation in the
finale, several problems arose.

“I am disgusted,” spat one townie mother afterwards. “Those could not have been the men’s and women’s basketball teams; the
dancing was far too graphic and professional. Those girls were gyrating and grinding as though they were in a rap
video! And the men weren't any better — several groups wore pants that were entirely too tight and revealing. It
was so vulgar, I had to cover my children’s eyes! One group wore tattoos all up and down their arms,
while others had dyed their hair pink! I must say, these are not the kinds of role models I expected
my children to find at Davidson.”

Another discrepancy is now being battled in medical court by one basketball player who, inflicted with a severe concussion due
to a misstep in her dance, actually passed out and vomited several times due to exposure to the strobe lights
and overbearing sound system at dress rehearsal and was forced to participate despite her condition.

Obama’s Confession: Worldwide Recession Also A Hoax

Washington D.C.- Early Monday morning President Barack Obama announced in a White House Press conference that the global economic recession,
just like last week’s “Balloon Kid” incident, has all been an elaborate hoax.

“The global economic recession has all been an elaborate hoax.”

In light of the recent hype surrounding the little boy said to be floating across the Rockies in a balloon,
the Commander in Chief decided it was time to come clean about his own sophisticated practical joke. After nearly two
years of economic turmoil, Mr. Obama decided it was time to finally call it quits on the laughs he had
at the world’s expense. He spoke confidently and casually as he addressed the country from his playroom, formerly the Oval
Office. Occasionally there was a brief pause where he got distracted by the Lego set on his desk, but Obama
was mainly able to stick to his heartfelt apology to the United States and the world.

“My bad,” he nonchalantly admitted. “I just thought it would be funny.”

---Pretty funny to convince people they lost everything. In my experience as a public official, I get no better satisfaction
than seeing my constituents overreact to questionable government policy. They’re clueless! That’s funny to me.”

Mathematical pornography

“Surprise! Haha, fooled you!” shouted Obama as he leapt out from behind his desk in the Oval Office. Obama’s confession
is the latest in a rash of presidential dishonesty. In his memoir, George Bush admitted to rigging the 2000 election
that put his son, George W., in office. A new biography argues that Ronald Reagan did not, in fact, have
Alzheimer’s, but was simply bored with his job and wanted to spend more time on his bottlecap collection. When Bill
Clinton and Ms. Lewinski pulled their famous prank on Hilary Clinton, it nearly cost Bill the presidency. Obama was asked
to comment on whether he would enjoy being pranked in return. He turned around and sharply replied, “No one pranks
me. I’m the f--king President.”

Trash Talk

Davidson College highly values environmental sustainability and cost-effective management. One Dean who wishes to remain anonymous conceded, “We decided to
send tuition bills electronically this year to cut back on postage costs and save trees. Likewise, we are under a
hiring freeze and have eliminated some of the maintenance staff to stretch every penny.” Yet when asked why tuition has
skyrocketed despite the major economic downturn, the Dean was forced to concede huffily that it “takes a lot of cash
to build a planetarium on the roof of the president’s house and send all the professors to Cancun each Winter
Break.”

This sustainability theme has crept into the College Meal Plan as well. “You walk past the Union Café tables now
and all you see are about a mile of buckets and bins. You’ve got one for trash, one for bottles,
one for paper, and one just for composting. I mean, do they really think that Davidson intellectuals will take time
from pondering greater philosophical questions to sort garbage?” questioned junior Bobby Owen. According to a recent survey, composting is the
last thing on any student’s mind. Ironically enough, senior Rachel Connors notes, “Before composting, the Café gave away leftover food
to the homeless. But we can all take comfort knowing it'll be properly sorted and distributed to needy worms and
hippies.”

Major Disappointment: Major: Mathematics

Reasons people choose this major: Masochism, ambition
Why people avoid this major: Life is worth living
Career options: Engineer, accountant, actuary, physicist, hedge fund manager, Wall Street mogul, builder of time machine, and other jobs where
there are extreme scarcities

Description: Math majors are a strange breed. They get lost in a world of 1+1=2 and triangles have 180 degrees.
These people actually enjoy and/or are good at doing math. They also grossly overestimate the math skills of non-majors. When
math majors help non-majors with their math homework, majors assume laypeople understand obscure and complicated theorems and assume proficiency in
what we clearly don’t understand (You don’t know what a derivative is? Haven’t you ever seen NUMB3RS?). Math majors, get
it together. The whole point of tutoring is because we don’t know what the hell we should be doing. Math
majors are easily spotted by their thick glasses, bad skin, and mock turtlenecks. They have an uncanny reverence for Pythagoras
and rank well below physics and chemistry majors in social skills. While these people are by all accounts weird, we
must respect and befriend them as they will likely be our bosses in the future.
