6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009

Souper Bowl V dishes out to benefit HAMMERS

KATHERINE MILLER Editor-in-Chief

American holidays tend to celebrate gluttony as much as the actual occasion that the day observes. The Super Bowl is
one such holiday to capture a food lover’s heart; perhaps that is why, coupled with (stereotypically) hungry college students, the
concept behind the Souper Bowl garners so much success on the Davidson campus.

The Fifth Annual Souper Bowl was held in the Lilly Family Gallery last Saturday, Jan. 31, from 12:00 to 2:00
p.m. Hosted in collaboration by Davidson College and Davidson Housing Coalition’s HAMMERS (Hands Around Mecklenburg Making Emergency Repairs Safely) program,
the purpose of the event is “to celebrate the work of HAMMERS in our community,” President of DHC’s Board of
Directors Margo Williams said during the welcome address. Together with Vice-President Dick Hay, the speakers went on to celebrate the
fact that since the Feb. 2005 inception of DHC, 87 homes have been repaired. The organization provides reduced-cost materials and
no-cost labor to low-income people in need of emergency home repairs.

HAMMERS supervisor Zach Jakob later explained that all the proceeds from the Souper Bowl go directly to emergency home repairs
in the four towns (Davidson, Cornelius, Mooresville, and Huntersville). Their goal, he explained, is to “complete 200 homes by 2010.”
Jakob also mentioned that Sarah Caitlin Mattingly ’06 contributed to the conception of the event during a spring break service
trip, as well as named HAMMERS.

This year’s event anticipated a crowd of 400 people after pre-selling 360 tickets. In fact, the event proved so popular
that excess latecomers were turned away at the door. According to Executive Director of DHC Maria Webster, the organization is
working on expanding the event next year since it is such a “huge success.” Tickets (eight dollars for students) were
cost-inclusive: those attending enjoyed soups donated from local restaurants, dessert, live music, and a silent auction. Restaurants participating included: Campania
Café, eeZ Fusion, Sabi Fusion, Maddi’s Southern Bistro, Toast of Davidson, Restaurant X, The Egg at Davidson, and Sabi Asian
Bistro. Bird and Bear Cookie Co. provided dessert, while entertainers Rusty Knox and Michael Orlando, The Delilahs, and Sands of
Time donated their time.

Tasters had the opportunity to cast their votes in four categories: Best Chunky, Creamy, Vegetarian, and Most Creative. This competition,
according to Webster, is “very fun” for the restaurants and part of the appeal to continue participating from year to
year. It is also an excellent way to advertise their restaurant to a large crowd; “the restaurants really enjoy doing
this,” Webster said, because attendees later come to restaurants reporting the Souper Bowl as the first time they heard of
the restaurant.

Students and community members alike are enthusiasts of the event as well. No one is likely to disagree with Webster’s
call to expand the event; the room was in fact rather overcrowded and it took a dedicated soup fanatic to
brave the long lines. This year’s Souper Bowl also worked to make the event more environmentally sustainable (in keeping with
the College’s sustainability initiative). However, the crowd’s mood remained festive. Standing alone among other events at this college which celebrate
food and music (DCPC Cookie Break, Ice Cream in the Union, Chick-Fil-A at midnight, etc.), Souper Bowl allows the wonderful
satisfaction of donating to a good cause while simultaneously enjoying all the event has to offer.

Future service events were also announced: Engage for Change students spoke during the welcoming address about an event called Greenstock,
which will take place on Apr. 4, 2009, on the Chambers lawn. The event will be a musical festival featuring
environmentally-themed vendors, community activities, games, a fashion show, and a clothing swap, among other offerings. A meeting will be held
this Thursday, Feb. 5, at 8:30 p.m. in the Sprinkle Room for students wishing to get involved. For more information
on DHC, contact them at 704-892-486 or visit www.davidsonhousing.org.

Community members receive soup from local vendors. photo by Kaela Frank

Formalwear store opens

MOLLY DUNCAN Staff Writer

Tired of shopping for four longHours just to find you have the same dress as someone else? Are you looking
for fabulous fashion finds this spring? Well, attention all Davidson fashionistas: there’s a new face in the fashion district! Next
time you’re grabbing a late brunch at Toast, head down a couple of doors and check out the new hub
of the ever-stylish “Davidson, North Carolina: Classic Bride and Formals.” Although this name may sound familiar to the true trendsetters
out there, the store is under new ownership as of last summer. Phaedra Flowers, a former pageant queen turned boutique
owner, is the new manager and has jumped into the project with style (pardon the pun).

“Dare to be different, and just have fun with it!” - Phaedra Flowers, owner of Classic Bride and Formals

Where before the store focused on the sale of bridal gowns, mother-of-the-bride attire, and bridesmaids' dresses, Phaedra has broadened the
scope of the retail to include formal floor-length gowns, as well as shorter cocktail and party dresses (hint: perfect for
formals!). Although the merchandise now is fairly limited, the prices are extremely reasonable ($45 to $100 for cocktail dresses and
starting at $100 for the more formal floor-length gowns). If you think that’s good news, then try pulling out your
ever-handy Davidson CatCard for an extra 5 percent discount available for Davidson students.

Phaedra, a six-year Davidson resident, is still learning about Davidson’s women’s particular fashion needs. When I couldn’t contain my excitement
from detailing Davidson’s social calendar for the entire spring semester, Phaedra quieted me down quickly by explaining that she is
interested in catering to the college community and wants to carry more dresses within a reasonable price range that will
appeal to Davidson students. Moreover, she is excited to talk to more Davidson girls about their specific needs to help
them find the perfect dress for any occasion.

“I love the idea that Classic Bride and Formals will work with each girl’s individual style needs to create a
fabulous look, no matter what the occasion,” Callie Haley '11 said. The owner emphasized her willingness to work with college
students to expand her inventory according to the types of functions on campus as well as individual fashion preferences. Ladies
and gentlemen, Davidson’s first shopping assistant!

Now boys, don’t feel left out. There’s a little something for everyone here. Classic Bride and Formals offers tuxedo rentals.
Since the measurements are done in-store, tuxedo rental is done by appointment only, so start clearing your schedules (helpful tip:
this Saturday’s basketball game is in the evening, so your schedule should be free during store hours).

Phaedra’s fashion advice? “Dare to be different, and just have fun with it!” Her new store seems to be just
the place to do that. Although the merchandise selection is still a bit limited, Classic Bride and Formals offers a
relaxed environment, fun and affordable clothing, and a promise of great things for the future. So Davidson, embrace your inner
fashionista and head on down to experience Classic Bride and Formals for yourself.

Wed. 2/4
Thur. 2/5
Fri. 2/6
Sat. 2/7
Sun. 2/8
Mon. 2/9
Tue. 2/10

Michael Maggen CIS Luncheon in the Carolina Inn 12:15-1:30 p.m. Tickets are required.

RE/FORMATIONS: Disability, Women, and Sculpture through Feb. 27 in the Belk Visual Arts Center.

Casino Night! at 10:00 p.m. in the 900 Room

Student Violin Recital 7:30 p.m. in Tyler-Tallman Hall

Getting Into Grad School Workshop at 4:00 p.m. in Career Services’ Office

Peace Corps Informational Session 2:30 p.m. Union, Room 313.

“SOS: Save Our Scripts” lecture at 7:00 p.m. VAC

After Midnight: Plinko and Pizza at Midnight - 2:30 a.m. Union Atrium

Anne Stanback Reading Series 7:30 p.m. in the VAC Student Lounge

Faculty Chamber Music Concert 8:00 p.m., Tyler-Tallman Hall.

Art Majors Decision Panel at 4:00 p.m. in the VAC Student Lounge

Chidsey Leadership Lecture at 7:30 p.m., 900 Room

ITS study room opening 12-5 p.m., Belk Lab.

Outpost Trivia Night 10:00 p.m. 900 Room

Live Thursdays: Black History Theme 10:00 p.m. - 1:00 a.m. in the 900 Room

The Generals Cupcake Decorating, 10:00 p.m. - 1:00 a.m. in the 900 Room
