12 Cats end early season struggles, open SoCon

JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

After another notorious pre-season schedule orchestrated by Head Coach Annette Watts, the women’s basketball team flew into their conference schedule as if unscathed. They downed Furman and Western Carolina over the weekend, both away, but fell to Appalachian State on Monday evening.

Over those tough first weeks, the ’Cats stayed competitive with programs from some of the country’s top conferences, like Nebraska in the Big 12 and NC State in the ACC. They fell by a mere three points in two tight matchups at the UNC Wilmington tourney. Through it all, “We learned something and did it better in each game after,” Watts said. “I like the way the chemistry is coming along on the team.”

In the opening SoCon games, the earlier contests clearly had their desired effect—confidence and composure, especially along the back stretch. Watts hypothesizes that “if we hadn’t played the teams that we played, we wouldn’t have known that leads can dwindle quickly, or how to keep them.”

The competitive struggles have proven difficult transitions for the Class of 2013, whose members have already earned substantial playing time. “At the high school level, up 23 points you’re going to cruise,” Watts said. “At the college level, in three minutes, that puppy’s tied up.” But “without games like that, we wouldn’t have been successful at Furman.”

The brief drive down I-85 brought the ’Cats into a back-and-forth battle with a scrappy Paladin team, which won’t be underrated this year by SoCon foes. The ’Cats gave up an early lead and entered the intermission down six. But off the promising dominance of Sophia Aleksandravicius '13 at the post, Davidson began to turn the tides. The team then mounted a double-digit lead deep into the second half, but a late Furman run narrowed the lead to a pair. Boosted by experience from the intense early matchups, the team held on with the help of free throws from Alex Thompson '10 and ended the game with a final score of 81-78. Thompson dropped 22 points in the game, including some clutch treys down the stretch, while the freshman sensation down low notched 28, including 12 boards.

Days later, the Furman squad went out and beat Samford, “the hot team rolling” in the SoCon, according to Watts. Proven: the ’Cats can play with anyone.

Two days later, the team’s schedule directed them into the mountains to face Western Carolina in Cullowhee. From the get-go, there was no doubt which team held the upper hand in talent, especially around the perimeter—Thompson and Ashley Lax ’11 dominated the early scoring. The ’Cats finished the first half rolling, up 33-20, but preseason losses still fresh in their minds, they knew not to coast. Even so, the Catamounts dismantled the double-digit lead to a shaky four points, and the finale seemed destined toward a close contest. But even following a record 8-game road trip, the Davidson post players orchestrated the team’s revival with tenacity. Key rebounds from Aleksandravicius and Monica Laune ’10 brought home the team’s second conference victory, keeping possession away from the rallying home team. At the buzzer, the scoreboard read 62-51, the Wildcats’ advantage.

In such close games, Watts relishes her consistent support from Lindsey Martin '11.

Swimming
DALTON, GEORGIA

The junior freestyle specialist was named Swimmer of the Meet at the Nike Invitational at Kenyon College after winning three individual titles as well as a relay event in the meet. Martin swam to victories in the 50-, 100-, and 200-meter freestyle events and also anchoredthe Wildcats’ winning 200-meter freestyle relay team. her bench. They’ve posted impressive minutes all season, and that means less strain on the starters. “The great thing about my substitution rotation this year is that I’ve actually got one. I’ve got a bench,” she said. “We’re at 12, but still, that’s huge.” Finally, with the squad ragged and exhausted, the ’Cats reached their first home match of the regular season on Monday against Appalachian State. It was quite clear they were relieved. And with solid defense, smart shot selection inside, and glowing confidence from the freshmen, the team showed the crowd just how far it’s come. But App. State came to play with a feisty press, looking for the upper hand up top. They controlled the possession with their advantage in quickness, making up for Davidson’s down-low presence. Time and again, their guards penetrated the front line and were met by a strong slide. But the rotation wasn’t always there. As the conference schedule progresses, Watts makes this improvement a priority. “Rotation, rotation—help line defense,” she said. “We’ve seen those quick, penetrating guards, and we’re getting better against them every day.” Down by as many as 18 points in the second half, the ’Cats showed signs of cooling the red hot Moun-

See ’Cats, page 1

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009

Wildcats split SoCon openers in Charleston

Ray Francis Staff Writer

It was the best of times; it was the worst of times. The Davidson Wildcats showed their best and worst sides last week in a road trip to South Carolina, knocking off the Citadel 74-67 behind Will Archambault’s ’10 21 points before shooting 28% from the floor in a 67-55 setback at College of Charleston. The Wildcats did manage to out-rebound the Cougars 55-36, including a staggering 24 offensive rebounds. However, the plethora of offensive boards was made possible by the fact that Davidson only converted 19 out of 68 field goal attempts, including four of 24 attempts from beyond the arc. The putrid shooting performance included a streak of 13 consecutive Wildcat misses to begin the game. The frigid beginning allowed the Cougars to leap out to a 20-6 advantage halfway through the opening half. Davidson demonstrated its resiliency by fighting back, and closed within 28-20 in the closing minutes of the first half. The Cougars’ Donavan Monroe (16 points) canned a buzzer-beating three, however, and Charleston took a 31-20 lead into the intermission. The Wildcats briefly closed the gap to seven points in the second half, but a 15-2 Cougar run allowed Charleston to open up a 52-32 lead with eight minutes to play and served to remove any drama from the outcome. Archambault produced 10 points and was the only Wildcat to break into double figures. Jake Cohen ’13 led the team with eight rebounds but shot only 2-15 from the floor. Jeremy Simmons led the charge for Charleston, tallying 16 points on 8-10 shooting while also hauling in ten rebounds and swatting five shots away. Casaan Breeden narrowly missed a double-double by recording 11 points and eight rebounds. The Cougars also struggled shooting the ball in the first half, hitting only 13-33 shots (39.4%). However, they shot at a 50% clip (14-28) in the second half to salt the game away. They also turned

See Wildcats, page 1

Jake Cohen ’13 shoots over a Charleston defender in Sunday’s 67-55 loss. Cohen followed up his 20-point performance against the Citadel with eight points and eight rebounds vs. the Cougars.

Radsky earns 3-1 decision, clinches first collegiate title

Alex Radsky ’11 earned the first tournament title of his college career after edging Clint Spencer of Newberry College by a 3-1 decision in the Championship of the 133-lb division of the Davidson Open. Radsky was a perfect 3-0 in matches in the tournament.