THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2009

Traditional Asian cuisine, also a popular item, is the Taiwanese Bubble Tea made from tapioca pearls.

Later in the evening, a cultural performance took place on the bottom floor of the Alvarez College Union. Following the acrobatic dancing of three traditional Chinese dragons were martial arts demonstrations by students of the Hung Gar Kung Fu Academy of Mooresville. Davidson sophomore Kim Zhang starred in his own martial arts act. “This is a great event for Davidson to have,” he said. “It shows the community’s strong sense of diversity,” said Zhang. He enjoys partaking in the celebration because he likes the fact that “it is a cultural advertisement that will educate people about the Chinese traditions.” Other performances were put on by the Little Lotus Troupe, which featured young girls from the Davidson community performing traditional Chinese dances.

The celebration ended with a fireworks display located outdoors on the Davidson campus. This year’s event was an immense success, as it drew a plethora of Asian culture enthusiasts eager to participate in the colorful festivities.

SGA Presidential Debate

Thur. 1/29
7:30 p.m.
900 Room
hosted by
The Davidsonian

Ra Ra Riot Press

Opening acts Ra Ra Riot (top) and Cold War Kids (bottom) are scheduled to open for Death Cab for Cutie at this semester’s Spring Concert.

Student Organization Charters

A Jan. 21 article, “Charter reform explored,” incorrectly stated that student organization charters are never renewed at Davidson. In fact, charters must be renewed each year.

Misleading Basketball Headline

The Jan. 21 headline “Cats rolling as record SoCon streak reached 37” was misleading. The Davidson men’s basketball team currently holds the second-longest conference-win streak in SoCon history. The record holder is West Virginia, who tallied 44-straight league victories from 1956 to 1960.

The Davidsonian pledges to rectify any errors in reporting through printed corrections. Please contact us at davidsonian@davidson.edu if you identify any such errors.