OO OQ, D,d, TO EEE EE EEE EEOOOOeEOeellTLllT,eee _—_ Sd a a9 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, INSIDE THIS, . Sr WEEK, &.-
ORIENTATION 2009: PHOTO GALLERY Freshmen of the Class of 2013 begin their Davidson experience see NEWS, page 3 Dorothy ALLISON
LECTURE Visiting Professor and acclaimed author Dorothy Allison gave a lecture Monday evening. see ARTS, page MEN’s SOCCER PREPARED FOR
SEASON AHEAD Returning and incoming players get ready to face the season. see SPORTS, page 10 ~ WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2,
2009 Patricia REID Staff Writer Ever wished you could walk to a movie theater in lieu of driving to Birkdale
or AmStar? Tired of renting movies in the Union instead of watching first-run films? If you answered “Yes, please” to
any of those questions, get ready for Our Town Cinemas, a new four-screen, first-run movie theater coming soon to Davidson’s
very own Sadler Square. A walkable destination for Davidson students and members of the community, the cinema will occupy space
in the same plaza currently housing The Egg and Healthy Home Market. Our Town Cinema brings a twist to the
theater scene. In addition to the traditional movie theater environment, Our Town Cinema will feature a deluxe concession menu, bistro
table seating, first-run films, high-definition entertainment and showings of alternative film series. Individual theaters can even be rented out to
accommodate seminars, groups and special events. Davidson student Mac Gilliland '12 definitely expects to check out the new cinema. photo
by Bill Giduz Davidson welcomes its newest class of 491 freshmen with a photograph of their class year, 2013. RLO,
Patterson Court amend social life policies Kesey LILLEY News Editor Patterson Court (PC) and the Residence Life Office (RLO) will
be implementing some changes this year regarding social life at Davidson. “I really see change in two categories,” Patterson Court
Advisor Andrew Chin said. “We’re implementing what’s been missing, such as clarification on expectations and job descriptions. [Also,] we’ve removed
things that didn’t make the most sense.” Patterson Court Council (PCC) Social Chair Liam Bracken ’10 led the Risk Management
Reform Committee, composed of Patterson Court leaders and independent students with Risk Management experience, in suggesting and presenting these changes
to the Davidson administration. “We’ve made efforts to streamline and centralize the entire Risk Management process,” he said. “We also
tried to address some of the issues brought to us by students, namely PCC stamps. We have eliminated the stamps
themselves, and have also introduced a new ‘21+’ CatCard to speed up the ID’ing process at the doors.” Instead of
stamping hands or showing the “PCC” sticker on a CatCard, Risk Managers will only be checking CatCards this year. In
the event that a student is over 21, they can receive a new card printed with “21+,” free of charge
at CatCard Services located in Belk Basement. PCC stickers will not be required for attendance at Court events. Bracken also
said that the process of acquiring Risk Managers for**Corrected OCR Text:**

Patterson Court parties have been simplified this year. In the past, PC organizations were required to find their own Risk
Managers; however, all requests will now run through the PCC office, “reducing the confusion and inconvenience the old system had.”
Chin agreed with Bracken. “We're trying to build in accountability with the Patterson Court organizations and the Risk Management team,”
he said. “In the past we were told [accountability] has been missing in one way or another on both ends.”
The student-driven and student-supported recommendations began last year with the Risk Management Reform Committee. Policy changes were then approved at
a PCC meeting, including the PCC executive board, PC organization presidents, and PC representatives. After that, changes went to the
Committee on Campus and Religious Life headed by Dean Shandley, where students and faculty approved them. Chin said that he
hoped the changes would not come off as “stricter,” but rather, that they would make way for a more responsible
system. “I hope that what [students] will gain is that everyone will hold everyone accountable because that provides the safest
environment for [having] fun, which we’re all about,” he said.

Associate Dean of Students

See PC changes, page 2

VOLUME 101, NUMBER 1

Square the new cinema. Gilliland said he feels as though Davidson’s social scene won’t be drastically disrupted but is fairly
certain that the cinema will still “provide another good option if you don’t want to drive five or six miles
down the road to have something to do.” Another Davidson student, Alayne Kane ’11, agreed. “Having a movie theater close
to our campus probably will not affect Davidson’s social scene in a big way. It will probably just be something
else to do.” Still, Kane is looking forward to the opening, “I like the idea behind Our Town Cinemas; it
sounds different!” The film series offerings sound particularly interesting, Kane said. The theater anticipates screening

See Theatre, page 4

Services?

KELLY WILSON
Staff Writer

Students often turn to the library for help with a research paper or for a quiet place to study, and
in an effort to improve support for students, the library is offering a range of new services this year. If
they wish to discuss research strategies and potential information sources with a librarian, students have the option of setting up
private research consultations, which may last up to an hour. Appointments can be made online (http://www3.davidson.edu/cms/x6933.xml) or by stopping in
during the librarians’ new office hours in the Consultation Room behind the Reference Desk. For students who simply have short
questions and don’t feel the need to meet with a librarian directly, the library is offering its new “Text a
Librarian” service, which is free, though standard text messaging rates apply. “A number of students are already using the service,”
Susanna Boylston, Assistant Director for Information Literacy and Content Selection explained. To use this service, text to 66746 and begin
the message with the code dvdsn. Common questions might include how to access certain library resources; for example, a
