2 Tue DAVIDSONIAN

Foxx, from page 1

Foxx continued, citing his mother and grandmother for pushing him to excel academically. But he noted that this structure does
not exist for all children throughout Charlotte. “Why are we letting our children fail? We’re seeing them in our schools
not walking into the classroom ready to learn,” he said. “That isn’t something we can fix inside these four walls,
but outside these four walls, we can fix it.”

For example, Foxx pledged time every week to mentoring a young person in a Charlotte school, he explained, and, “If
I can do it...everyone can do it.” But Foxx stressed that what goes on in Charlotte is also important to
the Davidson community as a whole. “What occurs in Charlotte in terms of job growth, in terms of quality of
life—such as public safety and transportation, and how we interrelate with our state government—all of those things impact Davidson because
we are now part of a region that is very much bound together by a common fate,” Foxx said. “So
when Charlotte is doing well, the region does well, Davidson does well. When Davidson does well, Charlotte does well, so
there is a very, very close connection there.”

“I’ve never lost my taste for seeing a community come together to solve problems. And that’s what we did at
Davidson and that’s what I hope to do in Charlotte.” -Anthony Foxx, ’93

Foxx also discussed the importance of the College in his next two years as mayor. “I’ve already talked with [President
Tom Ross] about strengthening the ties between the city of Charlotte and Davidson,” he said. “Early on as I start
looking at who... provides advice to me, I’m going to be looking at lots of resources across Charlotte, but Davidson
is also going to be a place where I look to for guidance over these next two years.”

Despite his successes, Foxx remained humble, thanking past leadership, family, friends, and volunteers for his victory, and looking optimistically toward
the future. “When you look at me, Charlotte, I want you to see not the finished product, [but] I want
you to see the rough stone...[I want you to see] the folks who have made it possible for me to
be here. Let’s take hold of this moment, Charlotte. Now is the time to cast down our buckets and do
a little good to help Charlotte.”

11/24/09
11/25/09
11/27/09
11/28/09
11/30/09

01:06 hrs Officer was contacted via the officer cell phone in reference to a noise complaint from the third floor
of Martin Court F. Upon Officer’s arrival at 0108 hrs a congregation of about 15 students were playing beer pong
on the balcony in the area of the apartment. Officer dispersed the crowd and no further action was required.

21:30 hrs Officer was contacted on the officer cell in reference to a missing computer inside the Knobloch Campus Center,
207 Faculty Dr. Davidson College employee advised that there was a missing Dell CPU on the fourth floor near the
fireplace. He stated he noticed the CPU missing at 1800 hrs and later informed his supervisor. He advised that this
particular computer has had operating problems in the past and IT may have removed the CPU. Upon arrival, reporting officer
observed the screen and keyboard still in place on the desk numbered U-4C1. Reporting officer has emailed IT to see
if they may have removed the missing CPU. This case remains open pending further investigation.

00:59 hrs Officer while on routine patrol observed a suspicious vehicle behind the Baker Sports Complex, 200 Baker Dr. Reporting
officer observed a grey 1992 Isuzu Rodeo. NCIC/DCI advised the above tag was expired 5/08 and was no longer on
a vehicle. The vehicle parked at the northwest corner behind the building, no one was inside and the vehicle displayed
no Davidson College insignia. Reporting officer searched in and around Baker Sports, no one was found inside and nothing appeared
to be missing or damaged. The vehicle could possibly belong to an employee. No further police action was taken.

17:20 hrs Officer Doug was contacted via officer cell phone and advised that a Davidson College student was stuck inside
the elevator located at F Building at 409 Ridge Rd. Officer contacted Physical Plant employee and was advisedthat she would
be at least 35 minutes away from reaching the location. Officer requested that the Davidson Fire Dept. be dispatched to
the location to assist in extricating from the elevator. Upon Officer’s arrival, he received another call advising that the student
was out of the elevator. Officer immediately cancelled the call to the fire department. The physical plant employee was unable
to reset the elevator, so the elevator was disabled and an out-of-order sign was placed on the door. No further
action was required.

21:05 hrs: Officer received a phone call on the officer cell phone from the residence of the Lake Campus in
reference to several unknown vehicles being parked just outside the gates leading into the lake area. Reporting officer arrived to
find Davidson student and several other students. Reporting officer was told that the students were filming for their Film Arts
class. Reporting officer advised the students that the Lake Campus was closed after dark and no persons were to be
on the property after dark. The reporting officer also advised that in the future they contact the campus police for
permission prior to using college property after set hours. Reporting officer allowed the students to finish their film and then
proceeded to the lake house to advise the resident as to what was happening.

Noise Complaint
Other
Suspicious Vehicle
Assist Fire
Suspicious Vehicle

Students attend “Pet a Puppy, Cuddle with a Kitten” Friday afternoon in the Union, an event designed to alleviate student
stress before the start of finals.

Faculty passes resolution
Symbolic statement resists homophobia

CAROLINE WOOP
News Editor

In one of the many waves of backlash to Michael Spangler’s article “Homosexuality Against Christian Tradition,” which appeared in the
Davidsonian on Nov. 4, the Davidson College faculty passed a resolution “resisting homophobia.” The resolution passed at a monthly faculty
meeting on Nov. 10. The original sponsor of the project was Associate Professor of Music Neil Lerner, although Lerner stated
that the proposition underwent many revisions over the course of the approval process.

Lerner said that the faculty’s deliberations remain private, and that the motion went through normal protocol and debate. “There’s a
cliché I grew up hearing in the Jewish community that goes ‘two Jews, three opinions,’ and in my experience the
same thing applies to faculty, although I'd be shocked if two faculty members ended up with only three opinions,” he
said. “We certainly proved that in our discussion of the resolution.”

Lerner noted that the faculty hold a wide array of opinions on this issue, as they do on any issue,
but he was gratified that the faculty reached a consensus here. “I can’t speak for all of the faculty and
their possible motivations, but personally, I know that the anti-homosexual sentiments expressed in the Davidsonian caused pain to people I
know and care about, just as I’m sure they were also hurtful to people I didn’t know,” he said. “It
was in response to that pain that I thought to propose a resolution.”

Although the resolution does not stipulate or involve any course of action, he emphasized that a faculty resolution is a
rare occurrence that holds “symbolic value.” “In an intellectually vibrant community like ours, there will be, and indeed should be,
a wide spectrum of ideas and perspectives,” Lerner said. “Within this open exchange of ideas, the faculty chose to exercise
its right to assert an opinion about the ugliness of homophobia.”

The resolution reads: “Whereas our Statement of Purpose declares that Davidson College values diversity, recognizing the dignity and worth of
every person, the faculty resolves to resist homophobia in its various manifestations; furthermore, the faculty endorses the following community statement:
In holding with Davidson’s traditions, we, the undersigned of the Davidson College community, support people of all sexualities, nationalities, religious
traditions, ethnicities, disabilities, and genders, and do not stand for intolerance or disrespect.”

The community statement reprinted in the resolution also appeared as a petition signed by students, faculty, and staff early in
November. “I’m really proud of us as a faculty for coming together and making a collective statement against homophobia and
intolerance,” Lerner said.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT SEEKS EXPERIENCED WEBSITE DESIGNER
- Needed for the construction of a social media/networking website
- Will pay reasonable hourly rate, starting immediately
- Examples of prior work necessary

All interested parties contact Scott Schreiber at scschreiber@davidson.edu, or 1-646-279-8134.
