THE DAVIDSONIAN

Steve Rossiter ’10 and Elinor Landess ’10 pause for a picture after being named Homecoming King and Queen at Saturday’s
football game against Lenoir-Rhyne. Homecoming included speeches from President Tom Ross and reunion activities. The Class of 2004 celebrated their
5th year Reunion, while the classes of 1963, 1964, and 1965 celebrated their 45th Cluster Reunion. Also in attendance was
the class of 1954 for their 55th Reunion, the class of 1949 for their 60th Reunion, and the class of
1939 for their 70th Reunion.

THIS WEEK THEY LEARNED THE IMPERFECTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL.

News

Grant Funds Davidson Community Players

ALLIE COKER
Staff Writer

The Davidson Community Players have received an outstanding grant of $10,000 from the North Carolina Arts Council to produce a
musical called “Violet” during their spring season. The show, which is slated for March 2010, is a work by Brian
Crawley and Jeanine Tesori that portrays life during the beginning of the Civil Rights movement. According to the group, the
grant will help pay “honorariums for professional artists and royalties to produce” the show.

“It’s very exciting,” Cindy Rice, Executive Director of the Davidson Community Players, said. When asked about the process of applying
for the grant, she responded, “We just completed the online [grant] application, sent in supporting information, and gave data about
our budget and audience statistics.” In the press release detailing the production for the spring, Rice stated, “State funds from
the N.C. Arts Council allow Mecklenburg County to provide quality arts programming for adults and students that would otherwise be
outside this organization’s financial means, while also sustaining our local economy. Last year Davidson Community Players provided entertainment for over
12,000 children and adults. A highlight was our production of ‘West Side Story’ in June 2009, an unprecedented success with
audiences totaling over 4,300.”

With such audience expansion, both theatre professionals and enthusiasts are realizing the importance of sustaining funding during these tumultuous economic
times. Mary B. Regan, the Executive Director of the NC Arts Council, expressed her gratitude and relief relating to the
continuing grants support from the General Assembly.

The Davidson Community Players performed “West Side Story” in June.
Photo by Bill Giduz

And is there truly an impact from the perseverance of funding the arts? According to the press release, “More than
13.6 million people participated in N.C. Arts Council-funded projects last year in schools, senior centers, museums, concert halls, and community
centers. Nearly 4.3 million of these were children and youth. The N.C. Arts Council awards grant money each year to
provide diverse arts experiences for citizens in all 100 counties of North Carolina. In fiscal year 2009-10, the Arts Council
is expected to distribute $7.4 million in state and federal grant funds to arts organizations, schools, and other nonprofit organizations
that sponsor arts programs.”

The collaboration between the N.C. Arts Council and Davidson Community Players isn’t the only one happening this year, however. In
February, PARC and the Town of Davidson will be screening the film “Boycott” and holding a Gospel Choir Concert to
celebrate Black History Month and these events will provide the lead-up to “Violet.”

By combining all these efforts, it should send a powerful message from 1964 to the current times of 2009. “Violet,”
which is apparently based on a play titled “The Ugliest Pilgrim” by Doris Betts, follows the story of a young
woman who is traveling by bus to Oklahoma. She is trying to leave behind not only her town in North
Carolina but the memories of being accidentally scarred by her father as she makes her way towards a TV evangelist
she hopes can heal her. During her journey, she meets a young black soldier who teaches her all about life.

Sure to be a crowd-pleaser as well as a profound glimpse at life from the pre-Civil Rights era, “Violet” will
be produced with enthusiasm by the Davidson Community Players, thanks to the grant from the N.C. Arts Council this upcoming
March 2010.

The Davidson Community Players were founded in 1965, when they performed “Time’s Harvest” as their first production. The theatre has
been growing and developing with the town of Davidson and its community for the past five decades. The group stresses
the need for community engagement and participation in local theatre and sees their role as one of community enrichment.

The Davidson Community Players now produce four plays a year, as well as children’s productions and workshops. The 2009 season
includes productions of “West Side Story,” “It’s a Wonderful Life,” “Driving Miss Daisy,” and “Barefoot in the Park.”
