THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2009

BEN IRELAND
Senior Staff Writer

Last Wednesday, senior art major Ambrice Miller presented an exhibition featuring her newest collection of artwork. Her exhibition, held in the Visual Arts Center, displayed beautiful paintings of African American influence, yet also modeled after the works of Michelangelo. Recipient of the prestigious Bearden Visual Arts Scholarship, Miller chose to present an exhibition examining the belief held by many Southern white Christians since slavery: blacks should be converted to Christianity.

“When I was little, I never was taught to question God or to talk about religion,” said Miller in an interview. “I could really only question humanity. So, through my work, I wanted to show the importance of religion and humanity and that all humans, no matter the race, are corrupted even though we are created in the likeness of God.”

Miller, who is fascinated by the art of the Renaissance, wanted to create an exhibition that reflected her religious education and the themes of African-American aesthetics, modeled after the style of Michelangelo. “You will see that I mimicked the Sistine Chapel,” mentioned Miller. “Take a look directly above you as you enter the gallery, and you’ll see how similar my painting is to the way the ceiling of the Chapel is presented.” 

Taking a glance upward, one could see a beautifully presented suspended canvas that resembles “The Separation of Light and Darkness” within the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel. One could see the emotions on the faces of Miller’s painted figures, a masterfully captured technique. Progressing through the gallery, one is also struck by the contrasts of color in each painting by Ambrice Miller.

Ambrice Miller’s latest installation is currently on display in the VAC. The exhibit features paintings of African-Americans modeled after the style of Michelangelo. Although most of the paintings are in darker hues, there is a brilliant luminosity that attracts the viewer’s eyes. Adding to the color aspect of her paintings, Miller incorporated the technique of depth, making the personages in the artwork realistic, as if the painted characters could seemingly touch its respective viewer.

Miller notes that each artwork encapsulates a memory of its process. “I have many memories attached to each work that it’s so difficult to tell which one is my personal favorite,” said Miller with a laugh. Though I was moved and touched by all of Miller’s magnificent paintings, one particularly stood out to me. This painting was of a black woman holding a white baby. So simple yet so powerful, this work portrays the complexity of racial relations in this country.

“I wanted to take what I learned from growing up in a Christian home in the deep South and incorporate it through a medium of art that would reflect as social commentary,” said Miller. Stepping out of Miller’s exhibition, I interpreted her collection to be a wake-up call to us, Americans, that superficialities of skin color, race, gender, and sexual orientation should be overlooked because real diversity lies in the constellation of talents, ideas, and the range of experiences that each person brings.

Honors theses: a rewarding challenge

Monique McIntosh
Staff Writer

Inside Eumenean Hall gleams a bright, yellow light—the ideal place for the concluding ceremony of the demanding English Honors program. This year’s ten honor students will present their culminating projects on Wednesday, April 8th, from 7:30 to 9 p.m. The English Honors program offers English majors the opportunity to develop a yearlong independent, critical or creative project personally overseen by the English faculty. Dr. Mills, the 2009 Honors program director, views the yearlong program as a valuable avenue for English majors to cultivate and develop an old passion, and has “seen a sparkling of creativity from this senior class.”

Ethan Jaffee ’09, David Orsbon ’09, and Cailyn Rood ’09 all incorporated their academic and professional interests into their projects. Jaffee, who intends to become an architect after Davidson, researched the use and transformation of heterotopian space in the Seattle Central Public Library. Jaffee became fascinated with the library and the concern that surrounds books and the role of the Internet. Rood, a pre-medical student, wrote a memoir on the emotional trials of medical doctors she encountered while interning at a hospital. This project combines both her major and the poignant journey of her future profession. Double majoring in English and Music, David Palko ’09 composed original music for his one-act play, “Playing Hide and Seek.” Palko faced unique challenges while he composed music and rehearsed with actors and had to respond to both factors during the extensive rewriting process. Kendra Chapman’s ’09 collection of poems titled “Aria Robusta,” also explores levels ofPerformance and uses the language of dramatic dialogue to discover a multifaceted identity. The intensive Honors format allowed Neely Meeks ’09 and Cory Cunningham ’09 to focus exclusively on individual writers. Meeks fell in love with Geoffrey Chaucer in Dr. Gail Gibson’s class and chose his "litle laste book," “The House of Fame.” Cunningham eventually narrowed down her thesis to the post-war English poet Philip Larkin. Cunningham was originally drawn to Larkin because of his mixed reputation. “He’s revered and now sort of despised by people,” she said.

Other theses encompass large time spans. Kate Wiseman ’09 focuses on contemporary author Junot Diaz, whereas David Orsbon ’09 studied medieval Chaucer. Each student accessed his or her original sources. Wiseman spoke with Junot Diaz about his novel, “The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao,” at a reading of his novel. “I asked him where the idea of masculine identity came from,” Wiseman said. “And he said exactly the right thing, which was good. Good as in good for my thesis.” Orsbon managed to travel to the British Library in London where he reviewed an original manuscript of “Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.” Orsbon analyzed its size, text, and illuminations to develop his theory that the piece is a physical artifact.

Patrick McArdle ’09 and Eric Morel ’09 both focused on iconic American novelists. McArdle commented on the pressure to contribute to a broader scholastic field. “Taking a canonical author and finding something new to say is of course challenging,” he said. McArdle used his exposure to disability studies with Dr. Ann Fox to glean new interpretations from Herman Melville’s “Mardi.” Morel compared the style of Mark Twain’s “The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn” with Edgar Allan Poe’s “The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nantucket.” “Both novels are hardly ever written about together,” Morel said when asked about the reasoning behind his project. “I just wondered why those books weren’t, and why they should be.”

These ten honor students have fully dedicated themselves to their theses and have truly lived out the idea of a liberal arts education. During a rehearsal for their upcoming presentation, they reflected on their yearlong immersion in an old, literary love. “There is definitely the danger of fatigue,” Wiseman said honestly. “[It can be difficult] to reconnect with the same thing you’ve been working on.” Palko also noted the repetitiveness of such work. “[The play] plagued my head,” he said. “It took me a while to step back and return to the normal world.” “But now I’m definitely reconnecting. Me and Chaucer have made up,” Meeks said. “A second honeymoon?” someone offered. The class laughed in agreement.

Campus life last year is back for a third appearance. Junior Liam Bracken leads the competition and service among all members of Patterson Court. The week leads up to Spring Frolics, which begins Friday afternoon, April 23rd. The dates of individual events have not yet been finalized. One of these competitions is ice ball, where five members of each house compete on each team. Another event guaranteed to inspire a competitive edge is trivia. Rumors have been traveling around campus that some teams have been practicing for months in preparation for this important event.

In honor of elementary school years, “Double Dare Guts of the Hidden Temple,” an interesting hybrid of classic Nickelodeon television shows, is sure to bring out the kid in everyone. The week also involves a competitive fashion show. Dillard’s has agreed to sponsor this event for Patterson Court. Contestants from each house will be invited to Dillard’s to pick out an outfit of their choice from the store’s spring line. After a custom fitting, each contestant will strut his or her stuff on the runway. The show isn’t all about beauty and fashion sense, though; each contestant will also be tested on his or her extensive bank of pick-up lines during an amusing addition to the show. As an incentive for all students to attend, Dillard’s is offering 20% off to all.

For a little added excitement, dollar bills will be accepted on the final day to increase the amount of damage that can be done to the other teams. At the end of the week, the money from all the jars will be donated to the Loaves and Fishes organization. Greek Week is shaping up to be a series of exciting events. Bracken and representatives from each house have been working for months to make this week a memorable one for everyone involved. So put on your t-shirt, save all of your change, and prepare for a tradition that is sure to continue for years to come.