4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Brad Gooch, author of “City Poet: The Life and Times of Frank O’Hara” and “Flannery: A Life of Flannery O’Connor,” chats with seniors Bill Warren and Monique McIntosh after a PBS filming session last Thursday.

Historian to address French race relations

CAROLINE WOOD
News Editor

Next Monday, French historian Pap Ndiaye will visit Davidson to deliver a lecture entitled “Blacks and Blackness in France,” in which he will explore the complex and fraught conditions of being black in a nation that does not officially recognize race. The French government’s policy of refraining from officially acknowledging ethnic or racial minorities dates back to the 18th century, when leaders of the French Revolution banished distinctions of race as an impediment to their ideals of liberty, equality, and fraternity. Many historians and sociologists point out, however, that this policy has actually been detrimental to the conditions of minority individuals, leading to a culture of discrimination in which blacks are an “invisible minority” for whom few official measures can be taken.

Spring Break trip to Honduras

Passion for teaching, social tourism combine to fuel service trip

CRISTINA BUSTILLO
Staff Writer

Throughout the school year, Davidson students are offered various opportunities to take part in service projects during their fall or spring breaks. The trips are usually focused on reaching out to low-income communities or communities that have been affected by natural disasters. One of the new Spring Break trips offered this year is the Honduras Social Tourism trip. The trip is co-sponsored by the Spanish Department and Bilingual Education for Central America (BECA), a non-profit organization based in Cofradia, Honduras, created to promote cultural exchange and affordable bilingual education. This organization is powered by volunteer bilingual teachers who immerse themselves in the community and learn just as much as what they teach.

The trip began to take shape when Laurence Birdsey ’04 contacted Professor Mary Vasquez looking for students who would be willing to work for him and plan a social tourism trip to Honduras, to help teach English in public schools through the BECA foundation. Vasquez asked Claire Petterson ’10 and Anna Stringfield ’11, both Spanish majors and passionate about helping others learn English, if they would be interested and they decided to take this project on and organize a trip for Davidson students over their Spring Break.

“Claire and I decided that this opportunity would be perfect for us,” Stringfield said. “Our goal for the trip is to go to a low-income community, live there for a week, learn about the people, do all we can to help out and then come back and share our experience and insight with other Davidson students.”

Students who participate in this service project will be volunteering in classrooms, working on a building improvement project, and living with a low-income Honduran family for the duration of the trip. In addition to these activities, they will also be traveling to the Mayan ruins in Copan, which are a major tourist attraction in the region. Upon returning from the trip, the students will be sharing their experiences and lessons with other Davidson students and faculty.

Ndiaye, who studies the history of race relations in both France and the United States, is the author of “La Condition Noire: Essai sur une minorité française” (2008) and “Nylon and Bombs: DuPont and the March of Modern America” (2007). He is an associate professor at the Paris Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales. The lecture will take place at 7:30 on September 28 in the 900 Room and will be free and open to the public.

Lansky provided tips for safe travel to disprove a few travel myths such as the need to avoid sampling the local cuisine for fear of getting sick and the common aversion to hostels. He encouraged travelers to avoid relying on...Brochures. Jim’s career-long track record of achieving successful results for his clients has earned him recognition throughout NC and among his peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named to the Best Lawyers in America publication consistently for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina. As a former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the State for his commitment to justice and his exceptional litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience, he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people who have been injured by the negligent or criminal conduct of others. Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove and attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A member of the Lions Club, Jim also serves on the boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

APPEALS + BANKRUPTCY + BUSINESS LAW COLLECTIONS + ESTATE PLANNING

Jerry Fuller and “Sandy” Carnegie

LAW FIRM Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009

New bikes to be released

PATRICIA REID Staff Writer

Running late for class? Need to get up the hill quickly? Why not grab one of the new, student-built community bicycles! Sporting a sleek new shade of black, these eight community bikes are planned to be added to last year’s yellow collection. Whereas the first fleet of yellow bikes were purchased, students participating in a Chidsey Leadership retreat last May built the black models themselves in groups of six or seven students as part of a team-building exercise. With the intent to increase students’ accessibility to transportation around campus in mind, Davidson Outdoors decided to sponsor this project, and will likely be releasing the bicycles this year.

One student, Jeannie Kinnett ’12, enjoyed participating in the exercise. “The retreat was fun, informative and a fabulous way to meet leadership-focused individuals.” Whereas some of the students had prior experience repairing or building bicycles, others, like Kinnett, had never built a bike before. Stressing the simplicity of assimilation, Kinnett described the rewarding process as “a fabulous surprise to discover that I—who understood absolutely nothing about bikes—could work with others to turn something so technical into something quite simple and achievable.”

Not only did Kinnett and other Chidsey and Davidson Outdoors students benefit from accomplishing the task as a group, but the Davidson community at large will likely benefit, too, as long as students take care of the bikes. Responsible for fixing and maintaining the bicycles, student employees of Davidson Outdoors encourage students to remember that their own peers at Davidson spent hours building each bike.

Prosser D. “Sandy” Carnegie has spent almost 30 years representing clients who have suffered substantial injuries due to another person’s negligence or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the law including contract preparation and review, residential and commercial closings, land development and acquisition as well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia. In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community. Sandy, a Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as a commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & A.M., and has coached youth football, basketball, and baseball in the Davidson, Cornelius, and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION + PERSONAL INJURY REAL ESTATE + WILLS & TRUSTS

209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699 www.meintoshlawfirm.com