12. The DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2009

Behind Robinson’s 28, ’Cats top Elon, halt skid

Black Saturday: Home, SoCon streaks end as Cougars nip Wildcats 77-75

Amanda Ottaway ’12 pulled down four rebounds in the ’Cats’ win at Elon, ending the team’s six-game losing streak.

JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

Last Saturday, the women’s basketball team finally breathed a sigh of relief—it erased its stinging six-game losing streak. Defeating Elon 79-65, the ’Cats are riding a wave of confidence that hopefully rolls past Monday’s loss to Greensboro.

On the bus to Elon, Head Coach Annette Watts asked each player to express her concerns about the coming game. By the end of the 40 minutes, most of these fears had been assuaged, including the most prevalent one: that the team wouldn’t have enough fun on the court. After losing six straight, fun should not be underestimated or overlooked.

After a two-hour trip, the ’Cats came out looking alive and energized. Their confidence was back and their defensive fire had returned. Most of all, it looked like they were having a heck of a good time. Mercedes Robinson ’09, particularly, decided to show off her player-of-the-year potential. She dropped 28 points and gobbled up 12 boards for her lucky 13th double-double of the season. Alex Thompson ’10, with 14, and Ashley Lax ’11, with 17, rounded off a trio of double-digit scorers.

Though Davidson started the first half cautiously — its typical tempo the past few games — the team maintained more composure than its opposition — atypical during the losing streak. Against yet another press from yet another speedy team, the ’Cats crossed the court with poise, frequently dishing the ball to Robinson as she coasted across half court.

Elon, an admittedly young and scrappy bunch, was held to less than 40 percent shooting, while Davidson nearly hit half of its shots. By the end of the game, the Wildcats’ experience and tenacity could not be matched. After an Elon player hit back-to-back triples to narrow the lead to eight, Lax and Thompson responded with their own pair of threes, sealing the victory.

Two days later, back to a stressful Monday night on campus, the ’Cats again opened with a slow-paced first half. This time, against a hotshot squad of Spartans from UNC-Greensboro, the home team was not able to overcome its early slip-ups. While Coach Watts will undoubtedly hammer her team for allowing 45 points in the first half, the Wildcats’ second-half effort was not enough to secure a win.

See Elon, page 11

Women’s Tennis improves to 3-1 with home sweep

IAN
Staff Writer

The Davidson women’s tennis team dominated play at Knobloch Tennis Arena this weekend, defeating Wingate 7-0 and Liberty 5-2 in a doubleheader on Saturday. While the basketball team garnered the attention, the women’s tennis team quietly gave the best performance Saturday. The Wildcats moved to 3-1 on the season with two non-conference home wins.

A stellar all-around team performance fueled the success of the women’s tennis team on Saturday. The Wildcats were led by the scorching forehand of Virginia Berry ’10, who swept each of her four matches. Ali Gores ’10, Samantha Galainena ’11, and Molly McDevitt ’12 all earned three wins on Saturday, and Katharine Dicconson ’12, Molly Verlin ’11, and Galainena all earned their first singles wins of the season. Verlin and Dicconson were competing for the first time this Spring and they did not disappoint. Verlin dropped only one game in a 6-1, 6-0 trouncing at No. 6 singles while Dicconson did not drop a single game, defeating her No. 5 singles opponent 6-0, 6-0. This quality play across all singles and doubles matches fueled a successful Saturday for the women’s tennis team.

The Wildcats defeated Wingate in their first match. The women showed no mercy, sweeping all singles and doubles matches to win 7-0. Berry dominated the match; she dismantled her opponent at No. 1 singles 6-1, 6-1 and captured an 8-1 win at the No. 1 doubles spot with Alison .Rauh ’11. McDevitt followed Berry’s lead, winning her No. 2 singles match 6-3, 6-2 and her No. 2 doubles match with Michele Fanney ’09 8-2. Dicconson was the third Wildcat to tally multiple wins in the first match; she won her No. 5 singles match 6-0, 6-0 and her No. 3 doubles match 8-1. Liberty did not fare any better against the Wildcats. Davidson continued to play at a high level despite competing in their second match on the day and won the match 5-2. The Wildcats remained perfect in doubles competition against Liberty, again sweeping all three matches. After securing the doubles point, the team won four of six singles matches to earn the victory. The unbeatable combination of Berry and Rauh won again, dropping only one game in an 8-1 smothering at No. 1 doubles. Fanney/McDevitt and Gores/Galainena captured the No. 2 and No. 3 doubles matches, winning 8-5 and 8-1 respectively. Fanney replaced Berry in the No. 1 singles position against Liberty and did not disappoint; she cruised to a 6-0, 6-0 victory. Berry, playing at No. 2 singles, moved to 4-0 on the day with a 6-2, 6-2 victory. Gores and Galainena ensured the Wildcat victory with wins at the No. 5 and No. 6 singles slots, respectively. Virginia Berry ’10 and Alison Rauh ’11 celebrate a point during their doubles victory over Liberty Saturday.

The combined success of the experienced team members like Berry and Fanney and the emergence of sensational freshmen play by McDevitt have the Wildcats riding a three-match win streak. Davidson will look to extend this streak on Valentine’s Day when they travel to take on Virginia Tech. This match marks the beginning of a rough stretch for the women, who play five of their next six matches on the road against non-conference opponents.

Player of the Week
Virginia Berry ’10
WOMEN’S TENNIS
SPARTANBURG, SOUTH CAROLINA

Berry posted an undefeated record on the weekend as she won both her doubles and singles matches in both team victories over Wingate and Liberty on Saturday. With the wins, the ‘Cats improved to 3-1 on the season.

Photo by Aaron R. Robinson

Bryant Barr ’10 tallied 16 points in the ’Cats’ loss to Charleston.
Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

Davidson’s basketball team received a sobering reminder of its mortality Saturday night, falling to College of Charleston 77-75 and also saw its 43-game conference winning streak come to an end. The Wildcats knocked off UNC-Greensboro 75-54 the night before. The conference winning streak was ended one game short of the all-time record of 44, established by the Jerry West-led West Virginia teams from 1956-60. It also saw the end of a 27-game home winning streak, which was the third-longest in the nation. Stephen Curry ’10 led the Wildcats with 25 points, but scored only six in the second half while shooting 1-11 in the frame. Bryant Barr ’10 contributed 16 second-half points while Andrew Lovedale ’09 posted 13 points and seven rebounds. Tony White, Jr. led four Cougars in double figures with 19 points, while Jermaine Johnson recorded 11 points and 12 rebounds. Forward Antwaine Wiggins, standing at 6’7”, contained Curry for most of the second half, capping his efforts by rejecting Curry’s three-point attempt from behind as time expired. Down by two with 2.2 seconds to play, Davidson traveled the length of the floor, with Ben Allison ’11 passing to Will Archambault ’10 who flipped the ball to Curry. Curry dribbled once before hoisting his shot from the right wing that was destined never to reach its target.

See Blackout, page 10

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Late three-pointers seal streak-ending victory at Elon

With the Wildcats looking to end their six-game losing streak, they had a comfortable lead on the road at Elon, but the Phoenix were charging back when Ashley Lax ’11 and Alex Thompson ’10 hit back-to-back threes at the 1:37 and 1:11 mark to seal the victory.