THE DAVIDSONIAN

JOHN Evans Staff Writer

Monday night, American novelist Russell Banks delivered the College’s annual Conarroe Lecture. Banks has penned over a dozen novels, including “The Sweet Hereafter,” “Cloudsplitter,” “Continental Drift” and “The Reserve,” several of which have been made into films. In previous years, such distinguished authors as Joyce Carol Oates, Annie Proulx, Michael Cunningham, Michael Ondaatje, Salman Rushdie and, last year, Michael Chabon, have given the lecture.

The lecture commemorates the achievements of Joel Conarroe ’56, former president of the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation and the PEN America Center, by hosting a prominent writer on campus “to enhance the literary experience of Davidson students.” In his gracious introduction, Conarroe said of Banks, “He writes with a poet’s eye and ear. He got his knowledge the old-fashioned way: he learned it.”

Banks’ speech traced the historical relationship between literature and political engagement and focused on the writer’s placement within the larger political world. He examined the political impact of “protest novels” such as Sinclair’s The Jungle and Stowe’s Uncle Tom’s Cabin. He claimed that these novels do not read as literary works of art, but as political and social arguments. “A true novelist,” he said, “has no thought for his or her audience, at least not while writing...not while submitting oneself to the traditions of form.” He defended the literary artist as a source of morality, as someone who “dramatizes what it means to be human” and who “inspires others to listen and to see.”

Banks exampled the late writers Susan Sontag, Kurt Vonnegut, and Norman Mailer as the last great literary public figures for some time to come, since, according to Banks, no one among the younger generations seems capable of taking their place. Banks grounds this belief in what he perceives to be literature’s steady relegation from high art form to a marketable product of entertainment. “We need human decency in government,” he said, “and linguistic moral clarity in letters.... Can the Twain ever meet?” With a government more concerned with policymaking than moralizing, Banks cautioned those in attendance to remain vigilant: “We must not allow ourselves to forget what it is to be human.”

Banks did not speak about his own work until after the lecture, when he opened the floor for questions. A reception and book signing followed the Q&A session.

“You need to find your contemporaries. Be around them. Learn from them.” -Russell Banks

The Davidsonian had the opportunity to speak with Mr. Banks prior to the evening’s lecture. Mr. Banks discussed his motivation as a writer and his writing process, and offered advice for aspiring Davidson writers.

The Village Voice described you as “a writer we, as readers and writers, can actually learn from, whose books help and urge us to change.” Is this what really motivates you to write, or does your writing develop at a more personal level?

“Actually, it’s good you started with that question, because sometimes I get categorized like that, and I need to resist it. The fact is, I don’t write in order to change anybody’s mind, unless it’s my own mind. But not anyone else’s. I’m really trying to penetrate to an understanding of something which is mysterious to me, and which is impenetrable except through the process of writing the novel. Something I can’t get to, a depth I can’t get to, without sitting down and spending three or four or however many years of my life to write that specific novel. What I really do, as I think most serious artists do, is write for myself, first and foremost. Otherwise, I’d know the answer before I even started. And that would be pretty boring.”

You do extensive research for a novel like The Sweet Hereafter. How does the research aspect of your work both challenge and revise any preconceived ideas you may have had about your subject?

“Well, lots of times you learn things that you had no idea were there by happenstance and accident over the course of research. But a novelist’s research is very different from the way a historian or a scholar does research. I don’t want to necessarily become an expert on a subject, whatever it might be. I’ve written historical fiction, fiction that is set in the distant past, which required me to do a lot of historical research. But what I’m really doing is researching to obtain material that will create...”in the novel a certain plausibility, a reality, a fictional world that I couldn't otherwise do.” -Russell Banks

But what I’m really doing is researching to obtain material that will create in the novel a certain plausibility, a reality, a fictional world that I couldn’t otherwise do. E.L. Doctorow was asked how much research he did for his novels, and he said, ‘Just enough.’ That’s kind of a tricky answer. But that’s true. You don’t do it in order to become an expert on the subject. You do it because your purpose is to create a world, a fictional world. See Russell Banks, page 4

Storage project threatens trail ecological preserve

ANNA STOCKAMORE
Staff Writer

Roughly one hundred meters from the two-mile mark on the 5k cross-country trails, a clearing in the woods appears where Davidson is constructing a large fenced-in storage building. The college is creating this new facility, which will have access to DunMurray Road, to serve the storage needs of Residence Life, Davidson Outdoors, and the President.

When the Johnston Gymnasium was renovated to become the current Knobloch Campus Center, Davidson Outdoors and Residence Life lost a considerable amount of storage space. Davidson Outdoors has been utilizing space at Lake Campus to house boats and equipment on trailers covered by tarps. Residence Life has been forced to store its equipment on the IMAC fields in tractor-trailers.

The idea for the construction of the storage facility in the area surrounding the cross-country trails was formed in 2000, but it was not until 2007 that the budget was available to fund the project. Both Davidson Outdoors and Residence Life will benefit greatly from the more convenient and protected storage facility. Enclosed by a fence, the area includes a large light brown storage building with double garage doors that are surrounded by several open areas of red clay designed deliberately for future expansion.

For those students who have not wandered out to the cross-country trails, they can be accessed through an opening in the woods behind the Baker Sports Complex, across the football practice field. They include about 200 acres of forest and 5k and 8k trails, which are all part of Davidson College Ecological Preserve, established in the spring of 2001. Created to offer research experiences and hands-on learning opportunities for students, the ecological preserve has been used and enjoyed by students, professors, and community members alike.

The trails also provide opportunities for recreation, such as running, walking, biking, and enjoying nature. The area offers a beautiful and peaceful place for students to relax, as well as a dirt surface for running and walking with reduced impact. The preserve is a great venue for connecting the community and the college; on the weekends, members of the community can be seen walking with their families and pets, while students jog or walk with friends.

Along with its benefits for the Davidson community, the undeveloped land also provides a home to a great number of plants and animals. A variety of habitats are found in the ecological preserve: mixed-hardwood pine forest, fields, creeks and streams, new forest growth, scrub, kudzu, and edge habitats. These differing environments create homes for an extensive number of animals and plant species found surrounding the trails, including turtles, lizards, sixteen different species of snakes, a multitude of amphibians and birds, opossums, bats, skunks, foxes, raccoons, deer, and mice. This vast variety of wildlife creates a remarkable yet delicate ecosystem.

Although the storage facility is not technically on the land dedicated to the Davidson College Ecological Preserve, the close vicinity of the building and the clearing of vegetation cannot be ignored as having an impact on the surrounding habitat. The area where construction is underway was a former wetland area and amphibian breeding ground. But as with any construction, the needs of the community have to be weighed with the ecological costs.

According to Dr. Michael E. Dorcas, a biology professor who has done research in Herpetology and Conservation Biology on the Ecological Preserve, the Physical Plant has been especially cooperative and thoughtful in valuing the undeveloped land. Although he hates to see the habitat destroyed, Dr. Dorcas mentioned that the land where the construction is taking place was already partially disturbed. While upsetting a part of the natural habitat, the facility provides essential storage space for other campus needs which will benefit the college in the long run.

Since the creation of the preserve in 2001, Davidson has certainly done an excellent job of maintaining this great resource, which will hopefully remain for future generations of the Davidson College community.