THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ray Francis
Staff Writer

The twin storylines of competitive play and heartbreaking defeat found themselves at work again for the Davidson football team on Sunday as the Wildcats dropped an agonizing 14-7 decision to the league-leading Butler Bulldogs. The defeat overshadowed a career day from Kenny Mantuo ’11, who rushed for a career-high 147 yards on 16 carries and a touchdown to pace the Wildcat attack.

The Davidson defense turned in a solid performance but gave up two long touchdown drives for Butler’s only points. The Bulldogs got on the board with just under four minutes to play in the first quarter when Ryan Hitchcock jaunted into the end zone from eight yards out. Butler drove 64 yards to the Wildcat 17 on their next drive but came up empty after David Lang’s field goal attempt failed. The score remained 7-0 for the remainder of the first half.

The Bulldog lead was short-lived in the second half, however, as Mantuo put on a one-man show. He sprinted 61 yards to the Butler nine on the first offensive play of the third quarter. The Bulldogs called a timeout in an attempt to regain their composure, an effort that was fruitless as Mantuo scampered the remaining nine yards to pay dirt on the next play.

Davidson’s defense looked to continue the momentum gained by the offense, but their efforts were undone by a truly unbelievable play on special teams. When the Bulldogs lined up to punt from their own 39, Nick Savarino ’11 broke through and blocked Michael Wilson’s kick. The ball bounced right back to Wilson, however, who recovered it and booted the ball 60 yards downfield to pin the Wildcats at their own one.

Davidson would be pinned at the one on their next drive as well, but the Wildcats managed to put together a 67-yard march to the Butler 32. On the outer fringes of field goal range, Wildcat coach Tripp Merritt eschewed the placekick and instead sent out Andrew Wohler ’11 to punt. Wohler was up to the task, dropping in a perfect kick that trapped the Bulldogs on their own 2 with 8:26 to play.

Displaying remarkable composure, Butler quarterback Andrew Huck marshaled his troops and led them 98 yards for the go-ahead score. Aided by a roughing the passer penalty, the Bulldogs covered the distance in 11 plays. Huck passed for 42 yards on the drive, which he concluded with runs of 17 and one yard to give Butler a 14-7 edge.

Davidson had two chances to tie the game, but both quickly ended in failure. After picking up one first down, the Wildcats gave up possession when Nick Caldicott stopped quarterback Michael Blanchard ’11 on a 4th-and-one run at the Wildcat 40. An intentional grounding penalty hamstrung the Wildcats’ final effort, and Blanchard’s desperation throw on 4th-and-21 from his own 11 fell despondently to the turf.

Blanchard finished with 91 yards on 12-23 passing and also produced 41 yards on nine carries to complement Mantuo’s efforts on the ground. Mark Hanabury ’11 hauled in five passes for 40 yards to pace the Wildcat receiving corps. Patrick Hunt ’12 led the Wildcat defense with 11 tackles and was closely followed by Peter Kidwell’s ’12 nine tackles.

Scott Gray led the Bulldog ground attack with 117 yards on 14 carries. Huck added 81 yards on 16 carries and a score to go with his 136 yards on 14-26 passing. Wilson played a huge role on special teams, placing four of his six punts inside the Davidson 20, including his quick-thinking actions on the blocked punt.

Penalties plagued the Wildcats as Davidson was whistled for seven penalties totaling 79 yards. The Wildcats also converted only three out of 13 third down attempts.

“I’m proud of

---

THURSDAY NOVEMBER 5, 2009
3:00 PM—6:00 PM
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
BROWN ATRIUM, ALVAREZ UNION

60 law schools attending, including:
Duke University, Vanderbilt, William & Mary, Cornell, U of Maryland, U of Miami, Yeshiva, UNC, Columbia, U of SC (Carolina & California), Boston College, Notre Dame, Loyolas of LA, NO and Chicago, SMU, Tulane, Ohio State, UGA, and MORE!

See complete list of who’s coming: www.davidson.edu/careers

Attire: Business Casual

OFFICE OF CAREER SERVICES
414 ALVAREZ
WWW.DAVIDSON.EDU/CAREERS
704-894-2025

OFFICE OF CAREER SERVICES
DAVIDSON COLLEGE
Box 7180
DAVIDSON, NC 28035
704-894-2132
CAREERS@DAVIDSON.EDUOur kids’ effort against an undefeated team that is at the top of our conference,” head coach Tripp Merrit said. “I told them in the locker room that we’ve got to find a way to get it done on those three to four plays that we have to make in order to win.” The loss dropped the Wildcats to 2-6 overall, with a 2-4 mark in the Pioneer Football League. Butler improved to 8-0 and 5-0. The Bulldogs remain in a three-way tie for the PFL lead with Drake and Dayton and have also posted an 8-0 mark for the first time since 1961. The Wildcats will continue their season on Saturday when they fly to the West Coast to take on San Diego. The game will be the 1,000th contest in the history of the Wildcat football program.

Ected for the first score of the game; “AS. Low: dribbled into the box, ‘agel raced down the middle. Low saw a brief window and lofted a volley to the far post, only to be deflected by the Southern keeper. Off the rebound, the streaking Bye-Nagel snuck the ball into the back of the net. The offense could finally breathe a sigh of relief—they had the lead.

For the next 30 minutes, the Wildcats cautiously avoided any fatal error. But with less than 4 minutes to go, the Eagles, outshot, refused to be outscored. Zooming along a low-lying trajectory, their third shot all game raced past the outstretched arms of a diving Ward. It was all tied up. But the ‘Cats had been in this situation before. After starting the year with a 3-6 record, they turned themselves around midseason to go 6-3 in the SoCon. Their success relied on an ability to bounce back, steadying the defense with a ferocious offensive attack.

In their sticky situation, Rachel Barnett led the charge into the Southern half of the field, gathering up a long cross and redirecting it to the tenacious Eagle keeper. Blocked. In the ensuing chaos, the rebound deflected off an opponent and trickled past the plane of the goal line. In one of the few successful finishes, the Wildcats secured a 2-0 victory earlier in the year, advancing to the Southern Conference tournament. They play the number-one seed UNC-Greensboro this Friday, Nov. 7 at 7:30 p.m.

The offense halved its shooting to 8 attempts, ending the Spartans’ 33-game conference unbeaten streak. “For us, really, the pressure’s off now. We did what we had to do to get here. Let’s go out and continue what we’ve been doing. If we do that, we give ourselves a chance,” said head coach Ashton. “When chances come along, you have to finish them,” he said. “And that’s what we’ll focus on this week—being ruthless and clinical with our finishing.”

Men’s Basketball vs. Lenoir-Rhyne
Saturday 7 p.m. Belk Arena
The ‘Cats begin life without Stephen Curry in their first and only exhibition game of the 2009-2010 season. Will Archambault ‘10 is the Wildcats’ leading returning scorer after averaging 8.3 points per game during the 2008-2009 season.

Outside the Den
College Football
#9 LSU (7-1) at #3 Alabama (8-0)
Tuscaloosa, Alabama
Saturday 3:30 p.m.
The SEC West division title is on the line as LSU travels to Alabama to take on the Crimson Tide. The winner of this game will most likely face Florida in the SEC title game in what could be a de facto semi-final to the National Championship game.

With the win, the ‘Cats tied the Elon Phoenix for fourth in the league; and by virtue of their 2-0 victory earlier in the year, advance to the Southern Conference tournament. They play the number-one seed UNC-Greensboro this Friday, Nov. 7 at 7:30 p.m. The ‘Cats won the first meeting this season at Alumni Stadium, ending the Spartans’ 33-game conference unbeaten streak. Though outmanned, the Davidson defense sent shockwaves through the formidable Spartans. “For us, really, the pressure’s off now. We did what we had to do to get here. Let’s go out and continue what we’ve been doing. If we do that, we give ourselves a chance,” Ashton said. “When chances come along, you have to finish them,” he said. “And that’s what we’ll focus on this week—being ruthless and clinical with our finishing.”