THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Alternative breaks branch out
Interfaith collaborates on fall trip

JESSE JOHNSON
Staff Writer

Over the course of the fall or spring, students have the option of taking part in several short-term alternative break
service projects. These projects are held every year and are organized and led by trained student leaders. Past trips have
included projects focused on housing, disaster relief, homelessness, youth issues, energy conservation, and environmental issues, and have visited locations such
as New Orleans, Florida, Washington D.C., and South Carolina.

The Community Service office pays for the Alternative Break trips, but participants must pay $15 to reserve their places; later
during the trip, they can use the money as a stipend to use as they wish.

One of the new fall break trips offered this year is co-sponsored by Davidson’s Interfaith organization, an organization where students
of any faith join together for meals and discussion and to visit a variety of houses of worship. Last year
was their first trip to Washington D.C., where the group visited a variety of places of worship, including a Mosque,
a Buddhist Temple, and a Greek Orthodox Church.

Court, from page 1

moved to a Monday to try to decrease the importance of First Night Down, but I think it will simply
transfer all of Friday’s normal shenanigans to a Monday night.”

While some strongly oppose the changes, others favor them. “I feel that the new Opening of the Court will be
an improved and more relaxed introduction to Patterson Court for our first-years,” said former hall counselor and current Residence Life
Office (RLO) staff member Heath Pelham ’10. “The change in date will enable the first-years to enjoy the full Patterson
Court experience without the pressure to drink.”

As President of the Patterson Court Council, Charles Brodsky ’10 explained that decisions about First Night Down this year were
made with the intent to “create a scenario in which first-year students are able to become more comfortable with Patterson
Court over the course of the week as we try to maintain a safe environment for all students and organizations
involved.”

Some students believe the changes are ultimately insignificant. “I don’t think that either of the changes are going to affect
the first-year experience,” said Jeff Banks ’11, a hall counselor on First Little. “There are plenty of court parties, and
while First Night Down generates more excitement, I suppose, than other nights at the court, it is really only that:
another night at the court. And by the end of their freshman year, I think they will have experienced more
than enough of those to compensate for the loss of one night.”

In past years, the “Big Brothers, Big Sisters” program was informally organized by hall counselors who paired first-year students on
their halls with opposite gender big brothers and big sisters. “It has never been organized by the school,” Perillo said.
“Most students would tell me that these big brothers and big sisters really just provided alcohol for the first-year students.”
Since Residence Life policy prohibits hall counselors from supplying alcohol to residents, this presented an issue. Even though they weren’t
directly supplying the alcohol, by organizing a program that was known for such behavior, hall counselors “The traditions... moved in
a way So we’re making a change with...Orthodox Church. The students involved also had the opportunity to witness a traditional
Muslim wedding firsthand. As with any alternative break group, they also did community service. The group made sandwiches and walked
around D.C. in order to give them out to the homeless. They also built a trench in a community park
so that rainwater will not flood in the future. Tiffany Pham ’12 described her participation in the Interfaith trip as
“a great experience for me. I was able to learn about different faith backgrounds, which allowed me to see things
in a different light.”

The interfaith trip, unlike other alternative breaks, is not financially sponsored by the Community Service Office. Participants must fundraise around
$150 from private sources as well as organizations on campus. Upon the students’ return, they visit sponsoring organizations and share
their experiences. An informational meeting about applying for alternative breaks will take place on Wednesday, September 9 at 8:30 p.m.

At the same time, campus leaders did not want to eliminate the upper-class mentoring that resulted from Big Brothers, Big
Sisters. “There’s so much wisdom that comes from being a veteran community member,” Perillo said. “We really want upper-class students
to do all that they can to share their experience with the newest members of Davidson, but we also want
that to happen in a way that’s safer and perhaps more inclusive.”

Although Cats Connect was never intended to replace Big Brothers, Big Sisters, its mentoring component maintains the positive guidance aspect
of Big Brothers, Big Sisters while eliminating the distribution of alcohol. “It is a mentorship organization that seeks to unify
the student body through fostering inter-class relationships,” said Pelham, one of the co-founders of the two-year-old Cats Connect program. “Our
organization is meant to provide the first-years with an upperclassman who can offer advice and guidance and simply be a
friendly face in a new environment.”

“Additionally, Cats Connect strives to better Davidson as a whole through service events that help to bring the mentees and
mentors closer together as well as connecting them to the community,” Pelham continued. “Ultimately, Cats Connect seeks to promote trust,
guidance, and accountability within the greater community of Davidson.”

Perillo noted that these changes are not intended to be intrusive. “It’s really about trying to create an environment where
fun is done most safely. What we do know is that we’ve got hard-working, high-achieving, smart young people at Davidson.
At the same time, they apply that kind of hard-working mentality to their play, which creates this real high-intensity play,
and when you couple that with alcohol it has a tremendous potential negative impact.”

“The traditions of First Night Down and Big Brothers, Big Sisters moved in a way that nobody intended or hoped
for,” Perillo said. “So we’re making a change with the hope that it keeps the good and lets go of
the not-so-good.”

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2009

Last Thursday in the 900 Room, Vann Center for Ethics director David Perry delivered his lecture, “Ethics and War in
Comparative Religious Perspective.”
