AN 2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAROLINE WOOD
News Editor

Local food initiatives have been garnering more and more attention on campus, but students are certainly not the only ones
invested in sustaining Davidson’s agriculture and community. For over a year, the Davidson Farmer’s Market (DFM) has been transforming town
Saturdays into festive market days, and as a new Spring season approaches, more markets are cropping up in the area.

The DFM is run with sponsorship from its parent organization, Downtown Davidson, and an organizing committee, which includes Davidson Associate
Professor of Religion Lynn Poland, Scott Sherrill '08, and Katie Epstein '10. “I would say the biggest challenge, planning, has
become one of our most important assets,” market co-chair Mary Jane Leach said. “At the beginning, we were required by
the Town and Downtown Davidson to write a detailed business plan, and it has become second nature for the committee
to make decisions based on careful planning and group discussion.”

Products sold at the DFM are held to the highest standards of quality, purity, and freshness. The market carefully controls
the freshness of baked goods (which must be made within 24 hours prior to selling) and the usage of terms
like “organic.” Prepared foods must be made from locally grown ingredients (the market encourages their vendors to grow as many
as possible themselves), and all meat, eggs, and dairy are required to have been raised on the seller’s own property.
The vendors who sell meats and prepared foods at the DFM must be licensed by the North Carolina Department of
Agriculture in order to sell at any market. This licensing includes a kitchen inspection and proper labeling for all products.

“DFM just makes sure they are complying with the law,” Leach explained; “It’s a best practice we picked up from
some of the markets we aspire to be like—Carrboro, Matthews, Asheville.” Leach explained that the DFM has received advice and
assistance from many established farmer’s markets in the region in the past and hopes to use their success to be
a resource for smaller markets.

Most of the market’s shoppers are from nearby, reinforcing the focus on local community-building, but the market has also attracted
attention from neighboring communities. “We did a one-day study at the market last year and about 75 percent were from
Davidson and surrounding towns,” Leach said. “There were a few from Charlotte.”

The DFM welcomes farmers from all over the Piedmont of North and South Carolina. Farmers and producers apply in February
for either a full or half season at the market. Leach explained that it is the market’s policy to maintain
a 75/25 ratio of fresh produce and meats to non-produce items such as baked goods, soaps, and crafts. “We have
no exclusively craft vendors,” she said, “because our focus is on the food.”

Many Davidson students are enthusiastic about having a community market so close by. “I love farmer’s markets,” Kara Jones '12,
a volunteer at the Davidson Farmer’s Market, said. “They’re really great. And it’s getting more popular. It brings the community
together, because people come out and see each other. And it helps the local farmers, because they don’t have to
worry about shipping as much if they can sell more locally, and it cuts down on gas costs. And people
have fresh food.”

Edie Surratt, the co-chair of the organizing committee, explained that the market’s advertising comes mostly from their partnership with DavidsonNews.net
and their own ads and press releases in such publications as Lake Norman Magazine and the Charlotte Observer. She also
credited the Davidson Farmer’s Market bumper magnet that cars all over town display.

Town to receive first public sculpture: “A Bouquet for Davidson”

JESSE JOHNSON
Staff Writer

Many students may not have noticed, but the town of Davidson does not display any public art. However, in April,
that will all change with the installation of “A Bouquet for Davidson,” a 15-foot metal sculpture, in the plaza between
Main Street and the Post Office. The artist is Andy Dunnill, “Davidson’s first artist-in-residence” according to a “Davidson News” network
website. Art commission member and Davidson Professor of Art Cort Savage said that the art contribution “will make a great
addition to the town, county, state, and region.”

When asked his opinion on why it took Davidson this long to get a public art sculpture, Savage said, “I
don’t thinkMembers of town government were never uninterested; it was just never presented in a way that was feasible for
the town to pursue. But, after a two-year process that led to the expenses and development of “A Bouquet for
Davidson,” which consisted of meetings, proposals, a visit and lecture by Dunnill, and discussions about public art, Davidson is finally
one step away from this gift. As a sculptor, Savage said that he is “skeptical of anything that undermines the
meaning of an artist’s creative efforts or waters down the potential significance art can have... The potential meaning of art
is so, so much bigger than function.” Savage is an advocate for getting a public work that was more significant,
rather than only decoration.

There are individuals who may be skeptical about the idea of a public work in the town, but “A Bouquet
for Davidson” is more than just a sculpture in Downtown Davidson. It can be used as motivation for students in
the art department or just a visual artwork for interested students. “Some people will like the work immediately, others may
not,” Savage said. “Like anything, the more you know about it, the more interesting it gets.”

Who is Dunnill? He has work displayed in New York, at the Sculpture Center, Roosevelt Island, and Long Island University;
with work also located in Chicago at the Navy Pier, St. Paul’s Western Sculpture Park in Minnesota, and Franconia Sculpture
Park in Minnesota. On April 25 at 11 a.m., Dunnill will be able to officially say he has an exhibit
located in Davidson, North Carolina, with the dedication ceremony during the annual Art of the Green Festival.

---

Farmer’s Market furthers emphasis on local initiatives

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2009

Residents shop at the Davidson Farmer’s Market, one of many local food initiatives. Over the area, people sport to display
their membership in and allegiance to the market. The Davidson Farmer’s Market isn’t the only Saturday market around town, however.
The Bradford Store, a small, independently run farm shop on Davidson-Concord Rd, has just opened a Saturday Fish Market in
collaboration with Carolina Seafood, an expansion of the Davidson-based Hattie’s Fresh Market. The store sells local and organic produce (including
items grown right on the family farm), homemade dairy products, baked goods, and a selection of old-fashioned dry goods and
now, on Saturdays, fresh fish.

Last July, David and Josh Meeks decided to open a shop inspired by local coastal markets and their own childhood
memories of wholesome family dinners, and Hattie’s Fresh Market was born. They offer North Carolina flounder, crab, and oysters, along
with a wide selection of freshly caught fish and seafood. Now shoppers can stop by the Bradford Store after their
visit to the Davidson Farmer’s Market to check out the tempting selection on Saturdays from 10 a.m.-3 p.m.

There are more ways to get involved in local markets than simply shopping, however. Leach and Surratt stressed that the
DFM always needs volunteers to set up and take down the tents in late spring and summer and to help
with advertising in the spring. Office work, including help with grant writing, is also in demand. Interested volunteers should contact
Surratt at info@davidsonfarmersmarket.org.

---

Link yourself into Washington, Georgetown University this summer.

CHOOSE CHANGE THIS SUMMER at Georgetown University.
- Learn with students from all over the world while you experience life in the nation’s capital.
- Network with professionals who can help you advance your career.
- Enjoy the Georgetown shopping district, area parks, national monuments, museums, art, nightlife, and nearby Maryland and Virginia beaches.
- Take advantage of an opportunity that can happen only this summer at Georgetown.

HTTP://SUMMERSCHOOL.GEORGETOWN.EDU
202.687.8700

CHOOSE FROM OVER 300 COURSES
Take courses that span the intellectual spectrum—including art, math, science, business, public policy, languages, international studies, theology, gender studies, and
more.

ADDITIONAL SPECIAL PROGRAMS

Intern and Study: The Semester in Washington Program
June 1 - August 7, 2009
Intern at Washington, DC area government agencies, firms, nonprofits, corporations, and the Congress while earning academic credit through related courses.
scs.georgetown.edu/washington

Summer Arabic and Persian Language Institute
1st Session: June 1 - July 2, 2009
2nd Session: July 6 - August 7, 2009
Learn Modern Standard Arabic, Arabic dialects (Egyptian, Levantine, and Iraqi), Persian, and Turkish this summer.
scs.georgetown.edu/arabicpersian
