THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009

ARTS

Fountain Walker: The Man, The Myth, and The Legend

LAUREN ARMSTRONG
Staff Writer

Whether he is sitting in a lawn chair in front of F on First Night Down or patrolling the campus,
Fountain Walker is undeniably one of the most loved and recognized figures on Davidson’s campus. But do we really know
the man behind the infectious smile and glistening badge? I sat down with the chief himself to get some answers.

Born and raised in Miami, Florida, Fountain grew up as the class clown, always looking to make other people laugh.
When high school ended, however, the road ahead was unclear. No college acceptance letters or job offers rolled in, and
Fountain was unsure of where he would go next. Then, some concise wisdom from his mother pointed him in the
right direction. Holding up a mirror to her son, she told him to look at who he was and decide
who he wanted to be. She gave him three options: college, a career, or the military. Fountain picked the third
option: in 1986, he entered the Marine Corps and served for 8 years in locations from the Strait of Gibraltar
and the Mediterranean Sea to Okinawa and the mountains of Norway (although he says none of those places compare to
the beauty of the Blue Ridge Mountains). The military taught him the quickness of response and deep understanding of others
that has served him so well in his law enforcement career.

After his military service, Fountain moved to Cornelius, NC, after accepting a job with the Cornelius Police Department. He worked
there for 8 years and moved up in rank from a patrol officer to a sergeant. For Fountain, this job
was much more than just a paycheck. He became deeply involved with the families he met, and told me of
dinners he had with the abandoned families of convicted drug dealers. He began working with local nonprofit organizations to ensure
that the people affected by crime were given the help to overcome their situations.

Fountain’s involvement in Cornelius soon expanded to Davidson. During one spring break, he watched in awe as a group of
Davidson students braved the frigid cold to build the Habitat for Humanity home he would soon inhabit. Fountain knew he
had found something unique. He began working for Davidson’s police force in 2003 while simultaneously enrolled as a full-time student
at Gardner-Webb University. He earned his Bachelor’s in Criminal Justice there in 2007.

Currently, Fountain lives in Davidson with his four children, three boys and one girl ranging from 9 to 21 years
old. He enjoys spending time with his family, reading comic books, walking his dog, and listening to music by Linkin
Park, Sting, and Enya. He loves Davidson. The students there are “frickin’ phenomenal, always in flux and always ready to
resist authority,” he said. His favorite book is Sun Tzu’s The Art of War while he remains tied between “We
Were Soldiers” and “Saving Private Ryan” as his favorite movies.

Beyond all these details, however, anyone talking to Fountain Walker quickly realizes that he has a big heart. He loves
his family, his community, and the students he serves; he works diligently to ensure that they are safe and in...good
care. He is understanding, personable, and humble, and openly shared his thoughts with me. I cannot imagine anyone better to
watch over the place we all call home. One last thing: if he could have any superpower, Fountain would choose
the ability to repulse—a complex power that uses opposing forces to move objects. It looks like our beloved police chief
has more of the Davidson nerdiness (whoops! I mean, intellectual fervor) than we thought.

AMELIA MONTGOMERY
Staff Writer

Flannery O’Connor insisted no biographies of her would ever be written, yet she couldn’t have been more wrong. Multiple biographies
delve into her life, and Brad Gooch, author of the recent Flannery: A Life of Flannery O’Connor, gave a reading
of his work last Thursday. O’Connor’s ability to capture truth defined her writing, and she covered a vast array of
contemporary issues in her work.

Gooch discovered the complexity of her work in his research. One of the most interesting topics was the peacock feather
that is featured on the cover of his biography. O’Connor felt a particular attraction to this bird, which, despite its
gaudiness, reveals a map of the universe in its tail. Gooch applies this trait to O’Connor: though his biography makes
it clear that she led a normal life, it also demonstrates the ways in which her writing reveals a complex
and awe-inspiring map of the universe.

In grade school, for example, she sketched satirical caricatures of classmates that exposed her observant nature, a characteristic that would
serve her well during her later career as a writer. Gooch learned that O’Connor, though shy, certainly left an impression
on her peers. For the book, he spoke with fifty of her female classmates. A celebrated writer and professor at
William Paterson University, Gooch’s work includes a biography of Frank O’Hara, three novels, collections of poems, and two memoirs. Gooch
has won awards and fellowships and has been published in numerous magazines including The New Yorker.

Many years ago, this same magazine sent O’Connor “mighty fine rejection slips,” yet this slight from The New Yorker did
not stop her from becoming one of the South’s most renowned writers. When asked on Thursday if he omitted any
details in his work, Gooch replied that he could easily have written much more on O’Connor. But “[I had to]
step back and realize everyone doesn’t care about every square in Savannah,” he said. Gooch’s biography appears to focus on
the ordinary activities that defined O’Connor’s life. At the reading, he chose a selection that described a visit O’Connor received
from a New York filmmaker. The man arrived at O’Connor’s childhood home with his camera, ready to film a chicken
the young girl had taught to walk backwards. Gooch uses this story, innocent as it may seem, to illustrate O’Connor’s
relationship to fame and pop culture.

When asked about O’Connor’s anathema towards biographies, Gooch believes that the writer was actually offering an invitation. “She knew we’d
be here talking about her tonight,” he said Thursday. In the end, Gooch has crafted an excellent portrayal of this
enigmatic southern writer.
