PERS Staff Ed

STAFF EDITORIAL

As students at one of the premier NCAA schools in the United States, we are presented with an incredible opportunity. Not only are we able to enjoy high-quality games in a variety of sports between our own teams and perennial powerhouse programs, but we also get to watch our very own friends, hallmates, and peers battle it out against some of the very best athletes in the country. One would be hard-pressed to go to any sporting event on campus without being able to see someone on the field that they know personally. It adds an entirely different dynamic to the notion of being a fan when the same person who scored the winning touchdown or goal over the weekend will also be the one leading a group discussion in class on Monday. This is not something that we should take for granted.

Why was our basketball team making it to the Elite Eight two years ago such an incredible experience for the student body? We think that most people would agree that it was because these guys—who had suddenly become the faces of college basketball—were also the same friendly, approachable people we would see in Commons or Chambers every day. We were proud of them, but they didn’t carry themselves around campus like celebrities. They had that same paper due when they got back from Detroit that we did.

We all have friends at other schools where athletes are seemingly pampered, untouchable entities that normal students can only see from afar. Thankfully, Davidson is not like this. Considering that nearly every student has the chance to attend games, the idea that the crowd provides victory is all the sweeter when they can share it with friends who supported them. We at The Davidsonian believe that students should take full advantage of the chance to support their peers.

Editor-in-Chief
Brett Willis

Managing Editor
Greg Newman

News Editors
Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood

Perspectives Editors
Bryan Norris & Clint Smith

Arts & Living Editor
Jennifer Gambrell

Yowl Editor
Alex Greening

Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis

Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Nami Patel

Business & Circulation Managers
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright

Online Editor
Greg Newman

Assistant Copy Editors
Joel Fineman, Elizabeth Watts, Jeffrey Roth

Photography Staff
Bill King, Aaron Robinson & Laney Schenk

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Only the staff editorials represent the views of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Email Jordan Wall at jowall@davidson.edu for advertising inquiries.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2009

In Honduras, there was no coup

ALEXANDER PITSINOS
Guest Columnist

Removing Manuel Zelaya from office was the only democratic and constitutional thing to do. Last week, Zelaya returned to Tegucigalpa, Honduras for the first time since he was removed from office in June. Mainstream media and news wire services continue to refer to the government now in power as de facto. It is, in fact, de jure.

Earlier this year, Zelaya attempted to create a new constitution for Honduras; one that would allow him to seek another term as President. The problem with this is that the current Honduran Constitution is very explicit when it comes to Presidential term limits. To prevent perpetual reign, Article 239 prohibits the head of the Executive Branch from serving another term as President or Vice-President. Anyone who violates this prohibition, or even proposes its reform, must be immediately removed from office and is barred from serving in public office for ten years. Despite this, Zelaya ordered the military to distribute ballots for a referendum on the issue. Both the organization which oversees elections and the Supreme Court declared that act to be illegal. The Congress and Attorney General condemned it.

Yes, Zelaya was removed from office by the military but that does not make this incident just another Latin American coup d’état. Having judged Zelaya to be in violation of Article 239, the Supreme Court used their constitutional authority to order the military to remove Zelaya. (That the military may have expatriated Zelaya in an unconstitutional manner must not be overlooked but is separate from the fact he should have been removed from office.) The Congress, also acting in accordance with the constitution, elected Roberto Micheletti, a member of Zelaya’s Liberal Party, to assume the office of the President until a new one can be elected.

We ought to commend a government that goes to this length to defend democracy and the rule of law. Instead, presumptuous media sources describe the situation as a coup and refer to Micheletti’s government as de facto. World leaders have failed to take the time to learn the details of the situation. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton found herself on the same side of the debate as Venezuela’s Hugo Chavez and Cuba’s Fidel Castro when she condemned Honduras for removing Zelaya. The State Department warmly received Zelaya this summer and recently announced they would be suspending economic aid to Honduras until Zelaya returns to power. Why, in the name of democracy, is the United States backing a power-grabbing politician who violated his country’s constitution in an effort to become the next Latin American dictator? It is no coincidence that Hugo Chavez, who overcame term limits in Venezuela, ardently supports Zelaya.Returning to Honduras, Zelaya took up shelter in the Brazilian embassy. Clad in his signature cowboy hat, he is trying to rally his supporters in an effort to initiate an uprising. In an interview with The Miami Herald, he claimed that “Israeli mercenaries” are conspiring to assassinate him. He is pushing the State Department to enact sanctions on Honduras which would absolutely devastate the Honduran economy. Imagine the suffering and poverty the United States would cause if we stopped letting the Honduran people trade with us; the United States accounts for about 75 percent of Honduran trade. What a humanitarian! Zelaya certainly has the best interests of Hondurans at heart. For him, his return to power is much more important than the economic trade that keeps Hondurans fed. This man is no shining beacon of enlightened democracy. So what will it take for the mainstream media to reconsider the way they cover this story? When will the stories stop referring to Micheletti as the de facto President, implying he seized control, and start recognizing him as Zelaya’s legal, constitutional successor: the de jure President? What will get the folks in Washington to give this situation a second thought and take a principled stance in defense of the rule of law? The world should embrace the cries of Honduran demonstrators who shout, “NO HUBO GOLPE!” or, in English, “There was no coup!”

Alexander Pitsinos ’10 is an economics major from Newburgh, NY. Contact him at alpitsinos@davidson.edu.

---

Re-examining the Afghanistan War

What is going on in Afghanistan? Who is supposed to be doing what? What is the United States’ purpose there? Can the Obama Administration answer these questions? Commander, US Forces Afghanistan General Stanley McChrystal put a plan on the President’s desk at the end of August and is still waiting on the President’s orders. A disconnect is growing between the President’s language regarding Afghanistan as a “war of necessity” and his actions. Why is the President hesitating if the Afghan theater truly is a necessity?

As General McChrystal waits for the President, new Rules of Engagement (ROE) have been issued, presumptively with the approval of the President. In short, the ROE sacrifice American lives in the short term with the hope of saving more in the long term. The ROE seek to significantly decrease collateral damage thereby saving civilians through limiting the applications of close air support and other bombardments. The key with Afghanistan is that the United States really has to commit.

I am willing to give General McChrystal some latitude. If he thinks these ROE will do what they are designed to do, he should get the chance to prove it. The man has devoted his life to the United States in the hardest way possible. He graduated from West Point and the Special Operations School. Before 9/11, he spent most of his time in military intelligence and, post 9/11, became the commander of the Joint Special Operations Command. It was there he did his best work. He has tracked and eliminated the worst of the worst. It was his boys who hunted through the Iraqi deck of cards. He personally walked in the rubble to identify the body of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi.

The problem with the ROE is inherent in their design: American lives being sacrificed in the short term without evidence of an improved long-term future. Seventy-six soldiers were killed in July, seventy-seven in August, and sixty-one so far in September. I can barely stomach the deaths of our soldiers, but I deplore the notion that our boys are being killed due to limitations imposed on their fighting. However, if a man like General McChrystal believes the limitation will ultimately save lives, I will give him the benefit of the doubt. What I cannot go along with is a President and a country not in whole-hearted support of the General and his soldiers. Part of that support includes setting an objective. What does the President want our soldiers to do? Someone must be able to explain what the deaths of 840 American soldiers have and will achieve. Can the administration explain why America is sacrificing her own in a country that seems unconcerned about the whole affair?

After 9/11, even though we danced around with the Northern Alliance and its various tribes and generals, we still were out for the blood of al-Qaeda and its Taliban support system. That mission then seemed to grow into a half-hearted nation-building. The key with Afghanistan is that the United States really has to commit. We have to pour resources into the country and give our soldiers exactly what they need to complete their duties. As with most wars, the victory depends not on our soldiers (they can always be counted on to be the best), but on our politicians (they clearly are not the best, but what we are stuck with). General McChrystal has defined a plan he believes will work. The President of the United States must shoulder the burden of chief executive and act. He has said the war in Afghanistan is a “war of necessity” and “fundamental to the defense of our people,” but now he needs to act like it. The President must show the commitment with actions, not just his famed rhetoric. Beyond demanding support within our own government, the President must demand accountability from Afghanistan. If Afghanis want to live in a society where girls can go to school without having acid poured on them, they too must act. The Afghanis have the luxury of American soldiers, but ultimately they must do the work to create their democracy.

Bobby DesPain ’11 is a biology major from St. Louis, MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.