THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Award-winning poet reads from work
Pablo Medina presents Writing Awards, poetry

JOHN EVANS
Staff Writer

Last Thursday in the 900 Room, award-winning poet Pablo Medina read from selections of his work and presented prizes for the Vereen Bell Memorial Award in Creative Writing. Founded in memory of Vereen Bell '32, the annual award honors the best work from submissions among the sophomore, junior, and senior classes. Bell was a promising young writer who died while fighting in the second battle of the Philippine Sea during World War II.

“I’m trying to find myself in my voice, and that voice is bilingual. It’s a voice that shifts identities.” - Pablo Medina

This year, Kendra Chapman ’10 won first place for her poetry collection “The Bathtub.” Marshall Worsham ’09 took second place for a short story entitled “The Library of Gosslin County Catastrophe,” and third place went to Julia Leventhal ’10 for her short story “The Gambler.” Medina also recognized several honorary mentions.

Born in Havana, Cuba, Medina now lives in New York and teaches creative writing at the New School University. He has authored eleven books of poetry and prose, including “The Cigar Roller,” “Points of Balance/Puntos de apoyo” and an English version of Garcia Lorca’s “Poet in New York.” His work often examines the definition and interpretation of how “translation” affects literature. “You can argue that all literature is translation,” he said, “and we live in a translated world.” He writes many of his poems in both English and Spanish.

During the reading, Medina read several poems first in English, then in Spanish. He described the poems in his bilingual book, “Points of Balance/Puntos de apoyo,” as “not translations, but reflections of each other.” Medina also read passages from his fiction. As a Cuban living in America, Medina explores the idea of identity in his poetry. “Identity is always fluid and always changing,” he explained. “I’m trying to find myself in my voice, and that voice is bilingual. It’s a voice that shifts identities.” For Medina, English and Spanish often merge to shape this bilingual identity. “Sometimes I wasn’t aware of what language I was writing (in ‘Puntos de apoyo’),” he admitted. “It was a very satisfying experience for me.”

Even more important to Medina’s poetry than its linguistic features is the challenge to create new work. “It’s what keeps us writing,” he said. “That next time, the sense of insufficiency about your writing will be gone.” A question and answer session followed the reading. Medina’s visit concluded the English Department’s 2008-2009 visiting writer series. The Spanish Department and OLAS co-sponsored the event with the English Department.

Children’s Services Ambassadors - From summer camp to parents night out, we are looking for high energy, creative, dedicated staff who love working with young people to join us for the summer. Help shape the great summer memories of our youth and make some of your own. Enjoy working hand-in-hand through daily activities while looking out for the welfare of our participants. Call Becky Taylor at: 704-766-2222 or email: rtaylor@hffa.com.

Lifeguards - Join our team of aquatics enthusiasts who are dedicated to providing a safe and exciting aquatic experience.For our members of all ages and experience levels. Become a Lifeguard at HFFA and find a rewarding opportunity with a flexible schedule! Not certified? Sign up today for our May certification classes and learn a skill that will last you a lifetime. Space is limited. Call Anna Kirkland at 704-766-2222 or email: akirkland@hffa.com.

Huntersville Family Fitness & Aquatics

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2009

Photo by Kelsey Lilley

Andy Dunnill’s “A Bouquet for Davidson” was installed in the courtyard of the Davidson Post Office this past week.

Senior gift passes 85% participation

CAROLINE WOOD
News Editor

As this year’s seniors prepare to graduate in only a few short weeks, their Senior Class Gift, a sizeable donation to the Davidson Annual Fund, is nearing completion as well. Already a successful fund-raising endeavor, the donation process will continue through the next few weeks. Cary Wright ’09, co-chair of the Senior Class gift, announced this week that the class has achieved the first stage of President Ross’s matching program, in which he promised to match the full gift, up to $10,000, provided that the class achieves at least 85 percent participation. Class participation has already reached 88.6 percent, and the President will be matching over $9,000 this year. The organizers of the gift are adamant that every student yet to participate is still needed, however. President Ross has also agreed to donate an additional $1,000 to the gift for every 5 percent of students who participate in addition to the first 85%—so the Senior class will have the opportunity to raise $13,000 to supplement their own gift, more than doubling their donation to the college’s funding. The class of 2008 reached 94 percent participation, a record level Wright hoped this year’s class can surpass.

Although the Senior Class gifts have been objects or items for the campus in the past (this tradition persisted until the 1990s), donations to the annual fund have become the new gift tradition. The annual fund, which represents ten percent of the college’s operating budget, helps fund athletics, WDAV, The Davidson Trust and the college Living Endowment, which funds routine expenses such as electricity, water, salaries and scholarships. The gift organizers point out that this financial donation is more expansive in scope and impact than the stationary objects previous gifts have added to the campus and will be able to touch the lives of every student. Wright stressed the importance of this project for all seniors, pointing out the sense of gratitude, commitment and community that participation reflects and creates in the student body. “The Senior Class Gift is meant to show seniors the importance of giving back to Davidson,” he stated. “Thus, participation is the most important part of our efforts. Although bigger donations of $20, $50 and maybe even $100 are an important part of helping us raise a high dollar amount, those gifts of $1 and $5 are equally important because they still show that seniors are actively participating in giving back to the college.”

Students who still wish to participate may make gifts in person (to Cary Wright or Alex Kalita), online (www.davidson.edu/giving) or by mail (Annual Fund Office, Box 7170).