THE DAVIDSONIAN News — WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2009

Theatre in literature studies | GSA kicks off “Gaypril” to raise awareness

CAROLINE WOOD
News Editor

This Wednesday, English Professor Ann Fox will present the department’s spring colloquium on “Edward Albee’s Eugenic Theatrics.” Fox, who curated this spring’s ReFormations exhibit, focuses much of her work on 20th-century theatre and disability studies. Her presentation will highlight recent developments in her research in both fields.

A student and professor of feminist literature, Fox is also the coordinator of Davidson’s Gender Studies concentration. The colloquium will take place Wednesday, Apr. 1 at 6:00 p.m. at the Carolina Inn.

Fox’s presentation is not the only campus event this week to highlight the important role of theatre in literature studies, however. David Palko ’09 is one of the ten English majors this year pursuing honors, and as his thesis project, he chose to write an original one-act play, “Playing Hide and Seek.” Palko has been conducting independent research with Dr. Fox and Davidson’s McGee Professor of Writing, Rona Munro, a playwright who first visited Davidson with the RSC and presented her work-in-progress, “Little Eagles,” over the course of two semesters in preparation for next week’s performance.

He explained that “Playing Hide and Seek” is the first honors project in over ten years to take the form of a theatrical performance, and possibly the first English honors project ever to do so. Palko, who will spend the next week rehearsing with three student actors and an ensemble of six student musicians, will also direct the play and has composed an original score for the piece. The play, an interdisciplinary collaboration, features John Rogers ‘11, Kelly Lence ‘11, and Patrick Scully ‘12. The performance, which will be Monday, Apr. 6 at 7:30 p.m. in Tyler Tallman Hall, is free.

Dr. Fox will deliver this spring’s English Department Colloquium, sharing her recent research on “Edward Albee’s Eugenic Theatrics.”

Independent SGA senators
Stephen Pierce ‘10
Danny Langley ‘10
Emily Glaser ‘12
Ariel Adamson ‘12

An intensive one-year Master's program, designed to accommodate students with little or no previous experience or coursework in Computer Science, the CSPP provides an up-close, in-depth perspective of the current art and practice of computing. With a focus on computer science fundamentals and the requirements of business today, the CSPP provides the instruction and training essential to harnessing new technologies and putting them to use in real-world environments.

Computer Science Professional Program
masters.cs.uchicago.edu

This issue of The Davidsonian suffered from several problems in the department of factual verification, more specifically that the entire first page is a total falsehood. Happy April, Fools.

KELLY BEGGS
Staff Writer

This April will not only bring spring showers to Davidson, but also a flood of events emphasizing lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender awareness as the Gay-Straight Alliance turns April into “Gaypril.” GSA President KC Currie said that Gaypril “serves the purpose of having a time that is devoted to promoting GSA activities. Just like there are other awareness weeks and months, having Gaypril is GSA’s way of promoting awareness for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) issues that are on this campus.”

Currie imported the term “Gaypril” from Middlebury College, but Davidson will have its own unique line-up of events. Gaypril started off on a celebratory note with its “Kappa Sigmos” party at Kappa Sigma last Wednesday, and the GSA will...Continue its promotional efforts this week with an awareness table at Thursday’s Health Fair and Friday’s Ice Cream and Tie Dye Social. “Awareness and homophobia are inversely linked. Fear is the cause of many kinds of prejudice, so by creating more awareness on campus we can decrease homophobia.” - GSA Member Robert Morris ’09

Throughout the month, the GSA will sell t-shirts that state, “Gay? Fine by me,” and accept Questions for Queers. Students, staff, and faculty can submit their questions for LGBT persons in Questions for Queers boxes in the Union, the Library, and Chambers. “We hope that students will feel comfortable enough to ask questions in this anonymous format, and that we can provide answers,” Currie said. Questions for Queers aims to create an open dialogue about LGBT issues, bettering the campus’s understanding of the LGBT community.

In addition to improving campus-wide communication, the GSA will also use film to broaden students’ perspectives on LGBT concerns and culture, showing “In Sickness and in Health,” a documentary about a couple struggling to legalize same-sex marriage, and “Priscilla, Queen of the Desert,” an Australian camp classic.

In addition to movies, ice cream, and tie dye, board games will be another awareness-increasing device used during Gaypril when the GSA teams up with Alpha Phi Alpha on April 22 to host Drag Bingo in the 900 Room. Tickets will cost $1 (open bar included), and funds will be donated to Time Out Youth, a local organization which provides “support, education, and advocacy for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youth between the ages of 13 through 23.”

Gaypril will not be all fun and games, however. April 17 will mark the National Day of Silence. On this day, students across the country take a vow of silence in order to bring attention to the verbal harassment endured by LGBT students. The Day of Silence began at the University of Virginia in 1996 and has since expanded to include over 8,000 K-12 schools, colleges, and universities. The website for the National Day of Silence states that the goal of the day is “to make schools safer for all students, regardless of sexual orientation and gender identity/expression.” The National Day of Silence is sponsored by the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network (GLSEN), whose website says that nine out of ten LGBT students report verbal, sexual, or physical harassment at school.

By embarking on a month-long awareness-raising campaign, the GSA will attempt to create an accepting, safe, and comfortable community for students of all sexual orientations. “Awareness and homophobia are inversely linked,” GSA Member Robert Morris ’09 said. “Fear is the cause of many kinds of prejudice, so by creating more awareness on campus we can decrease homophobia.” Gaypril will seek to increase awareness and decrease homophobia with both entertainment and education. “I hope that Gaypril provides a mix of social activities and informative events,” Currie said.

By hosting a broad assortment of events in collaboration with a diverse mix of organizations, the GSA hopes to reach its widest audience possible, aiming to make Davidson an all-inclusive and supportive environment where students of all sexual identities can peacefully coexist. Gaypril will culminate with a Drag Ball at Rusk on May 1, but the GSA’s hope is that the awareness and understanding created by this month’s events will be timeless, lasting far past the month’s end.