@ “THE SOUTH’S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

MEET THE 2009 CANDIDATES

Elections for SGA, Union Board, ATC, and UCA positions will be held on Monday.

see ELECTIONS, pages 6-7

AQUILA COMPANY TO PERFORM “ILIAD” AT DAVIDSON

Aquila Theatre Company visits Davidson campus tonight as a part of the College’s Artist Series.

see ARTS, page 10

WOMEN’S BASKETBALL FALLS TO APP STATE AND W. CAROLINA

Team loses five straight after leading SoCon 7-0.

see SPORTS, page 15

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2009

Kimberly Bunting ’10, Rachel Winston ’10, A.J. Grant ’10, Meikaela Zwieryznski ’10, and Andrew Humphrey ’10 pose in front of
the Washington Monument.

A Lunar New Year

Bianca Mitchell
Staff Writer

Food, fun, and fireworks lit up the spirits of at least a hundred people of the Davidson community during this
Sunday’s Lunar New Year celebration held in the Alvarez College Union. The events, which were sponsored by the Davidson College
Asian Cultural Awareness Association, drew members from all over the community, bringing many cultures together to celebrate the holiday.

Kevin Green works at the Davidson Community School and has attended the events for the past four years with his
wife and daughter. “I love to see the Asian community come together. I have a Chinese daughter so it’s always
good for her to be able to celebrate and also see similar faces.”

The Lunar New Year, which is also referred to as Chinese New Year or Spring Festival, is the most important
of the traditional Asian holidays. The festival begins on the first day of the first lunar month on the Asian
lunar calendar and ends on the fifteenth day. ACAA secretary, Pallavi Penumetcha ’11, loves being involved in the club’s biggest
event of the year. “We really try and incorporate many different aspects of Asian culture,” she said.

Each year of the calendar is represented by an animal, and 2009 is the year of the ox. Red is
the traditional color of the celebration, as it is believed to steer away bad fortune and evil spirits that could
come in the New Year.

Sunday’s celebration included many of the traditional Lunar New Year elements. The night started off at five o’clock with a
free meal in

See New Year, page 5

Photo by Bill King

Students visit D.C. for inaugural pilgrimage

Krista Timeus
Staff Writer

On January 20th, 2009 members of the Davidson community joined more than 2 million people in front of Capitol Hill
to watch Barack Obama take the oath of office and assume the presidency of the United States of America. Summoned
by a sense of history and the “hope for change” that marked the President’s campaign, the crowd was one of
the largest ever to gather for the occasion.

The day began early for those wishing to attend. The mass of people heading to the mall clogged the Metro
system, making it challenging to move around the city. Due to security measures, all the bridges around the city were
closed to traffic and waiting lines to get onto the Mall could be as long as 4 or 5 blocks.

Even at 8:00 am, hours before the ceremony, visitors were already incredibly exhausted, cold, and overwhelmed.

Nonetheless, excitement imbued the nation’s capital. For many people, including Davidson College’s own President Tom Ross, it was the first
presidential inauguration they had ever attended. “It was a very cold day,” President Ross said, “but very historic, very rewarding.
The history of it made you happy to be there.”

“It always reminds me of the real strength of our democracy,” President Ross added, “that we can transfer power in
such a peaceful manner. It’s very rare in the world.”

The composition of the crowds reflected this same democratic sentiment. The smiles and tears Obama evoked during his 18-minute long
speech belonged to a colorful, multi-ethnic, multilingual, bipartisan audience of all ages. “An amazing number of young people and African
Americans were around me,” Political Science Professor Russell Crandall said, “it was great.”

Amidst all the celebration, however, there were some frustrations. Despite holding tickets to enter the secured area in front of
the

See D.C., page 3

Death Cab to headline Spring Concert

Bianca Mitchell
Staff Writer

Death Cab For Cutie will headline the Spring Concert this April with The Cold War Kids and Ra Ra Riot
as the opening acts. All three groups are classified under the indie rock genre.

“I’m really excited about the concert coming up. It’s going to be a lot of fun to organize and I
hope that the students will really enjoy it,” Union Board Concert Committee Chair Michael Mellody ’11 said of the event.

Concert tickets will cost $20 for Davidson students and $30 for the general public. On Wednesday morning at nine thirty,
students will have the exciting opportunity to attend a special ticket-release party in the Alvarez College Union.

At the party, students will be able to purchase tickets, as well as enter their names into a raffle for
a chance to win special VIP tickets to the show. Those lucky VIP ticket holders will get their choice of
seating, as well as the chance to meet the bands before the show. Tickets will go on sale to the
general public sometime in the following week. This eagerly anticipated event will be held April 9th in the College’s Baker
Sports Complex.
