sand to our plane only that, but living green also promotes the forgotten virtues of simplicity and sustainability. It may
seem an impossibility in everyday life; it still remains a necessity. Living green requires one to put into perspective the
fact that our lifestyles, especially in America, all too often include frivolous waste, overconsumption, and environmentally and economically irresponsible practices.
By cutting back and saving more, we gain more. Not only in terms of resources, but also in terms of
general happiness and contentment. This week's issue of The Davidsonian features an article on the expansion of a composting program
implemented just last year. The program's objectives include saving the College money for grounds maintenance by creating organic fertilizer. Like
many other simple green initiatives, this project provides a cost-efficient method of reducing excess waste and pollution. Galen King, a
current member of this project, has also organized an audit program. Over the course of the year, King intends to
recommend to the College how best to incorporate this waste with the current compost generated by Vail Commons and the
Union. These ideas of living green and sustainability present a difficult adjustment, often negatively characterized. However, with our ingenuity, we
can find an efficient means to respect our natural habitats.

Editor-in-Chief
Brett Willis

News Editors
Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood

Perspectives Editors
Bryan Norris & Clint Smith

Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Gambrell

You! Editors
Alex Greening

Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis

Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Nami Patel

Business & Circulation Managers
Jordan Wall & Lauren James

Online Editor
Greg Newman

Assistant Copy Editors
Joel Fineman & Jeffrey Roth

Photography Staff
Bill King, Aaron Robinson & Laney Schenk

Special thanks to Bill Warren

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to:
The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182, E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez
College Union. Opinions expressed in articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Only
the staff editorials represent the views of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Email
Jordan Wall at jowall@davidson.edu for advertising inquiries.

THE REPUBLICANS OF POL 311
Guest Columnists

On September 30, 2009, you have the unique opportunity to vote in a United States Senate Election simulation here on
campus. This election simulation is fictitious in that neither Walker Texas Ranger (R-NC) nor Bob McKillop (D-NC) is actually running
for the Senator of North Carolina. Over the next two weeks, students from our POL 311 class are running campaigns.
Cordell Walker, a sheriff in the hit series, Walker Texas Ranger, is played by the one and only Chuck Norris.
We, the Republican Party, support Cordell Walker “Texas Ranger” as our candidate for the United States Senate seat in North
Carolina.

Born in 1946 in Cornelius, North Carolina, Walker’s comfortable youth was shaken early in life. At age ten, Walker’s parents
were murdered during a home invasion. Fortunately, Walker escaped unharmed, but the tragic event marked a turning point in his
life. Walker developed a strong interest in criminal justice and sought a career in law enforcement to serve his community
and to protect families from experiencing the tragedy he suffered. Orphaned, Walker was sent to San Angelo, Texas to live
with his uncle, a member of the Navajo Nation. When he turned 18, Walker returned to North Carolina and attended
Davidson College, just miles away from his childhood home. At Davidson, Walker was a political science major, graduating magna cum
laude and serving on the prestigious honor council. Upon graduation, Walker attended Officer Candidate School and entered the United States
Marine Corps as a commissioned officer, spending three years in Southeast Asia during the Vietnam War. Walker’s Marine service in
the Force Reconnaissance Company was honorable, earning him two Purple Hearts and a Bronze Star. Despite his courageous service, Walker
knew he would pursue a career in law enforcement after completing his tour with the Marines. Walker moved back to
Texas and became a member of the Texas Ranger Division. Based in Austin, Texas, Walker targeted political corruption, drug cartels,
human smuggling, and counterfeiting rings, participating in over 2,000 arrests.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009

Walker’s tenure with the Rangers was successful and rewarding, but he always wanted to return to his North Carolina roots.
When the sitting Mecklenburg County sheriff retired, Walker returned to his hometown to run for office. Walker won the election
in a landslide, and today, he is the sheriff of the most populous county in the Tar Heel State. Mecklenburg
voters have not only re-elected Walker as sheriff, but also elected him to serve on the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education.
Walker takes a keen interest in the lives of area youth and works to expand extracurricular opportunities for students in
the local school district. Walker’s philanthropic endeavors are as impressive as his professional resume. In 2000, Walker founded Kids Improving
Character through Karate (KICK), which teaches karate to at-risk youths in the Charlotte metropolitan area. Today, the $15 million private
charity helps nearly 4,000 area youths stay in school and out of jail each year. The federal government, Walker believes,
should help individuals to the extent that they can be helped. But he also knows that big government will not
eliminate crime, unemployment, or even poverty. The marketplace, not bureaucracy, delivers the most.goods at the highest quality to the American
public. He knows that government-controlled health insurance will not expand quality health care coverage, either. Walker is a Washington outsider,
running for the United States Senate to keep the federal government’s hand out of the issues that can be solved
by our robust private sector. In Texas and Mecklenburg County, Walker has kept the streets safe and the politicians straight.
Now, Walker is ready to protect Americans from another enemy: big government. Believers in liberty have a friend in Cordell
Walker “Texas Ranger,” Davidson’s Republican candidate for the United States Senate. Look for an article from Walker Texas Ranger in
next week’s Davidsonian!

This piece was written as part of an exercise in Dr. Sellers's POL 311: The Legislative Process, simulating a fictitious
national senatorial race.

~ Huffington Post in my Davidsonian?

Ryan Gough
Guest Columnist

I honestly don’t know where to begin. Wednesday’s column, “Let Obama Work” by Scott Matthews floors me. I’ve heard arguments
similar to Mr. Matthews’ in the hallowed columns of the Huffington Post (and, alas, the New York Times), but I
suppose my faith in Davidsonians disallows me to believe that a student cannot see through the partisan fog that clouds
those pages.

Last November, the United States witnessed a historic election. What an achievement. I will never forget when the first African
American man was elected President of the United States. And yet, President Obama has experienced incredible loss of support from
every age group and category of people one can delineate. Just as his election was historic, his fall in popularity
has been historic. Other than Bill Clinton and Gerald Ford, no other modern president has seen such a sharp decline
in poll numbers.

Mr. Matthews obviously laments this fact and the press coverage that has come with it. He assumes that the press
has some force that exacerbates these numbers and then mitigates the President’s ability to get things done. And yet, he
points out that Obama has, in only 9 months, worked on much of his agenda (Anyone see a contradiction?). “Never
let a good crisis go to waste,” Rahm Emmanuel stated, and the White House went to work. Assuming it had
a mandate, the Obama team pushed reforms, initiatives, and legislation to the point that Congress couldn’t keep up and pundits
were left dizzy trying to figure out what was happening in Washington.

Obama ran his election on “change,” but people are often resistant to change. We are witnessing this fact now. Health
care will be the straw that broke Obama’s back. He is learning very quickly that the American people will stomach
only so much. The limit has probably come. The pushback that we have seen this summer is unprecedented and historic
as well, and politicians should take notice. Callers shut down the House phone switchboard during the cap-and-trade debate and upset
and angry citizens have shown up at town halls around the country. Tea parties have erupted in dozens of cities,
and just last week, angry voters descended on Washington to protest Congress’ actions.

Many have argued that the GOP or other sinister conservative forces have been rallying the troops to shout down Congressmen.
And yet, I recall that only a few months ago, Democrats were asking, “Where’s the leader of the Republican Party?”
The GOP has gone through a massive restructuring. It has new personnel, ideas, and a fresh Chairman. To claim that
this young administrative body could orchestrate such an uprising is, well, giving them way too much credit. And yet, there
have been cries from the Left that the American people are stupid and fake, that health insurance companies are “villains,”
and that America simply does not know what is best for it. Obama-Pelosi-Reid (the axis of taxes—sorry, I had to
do it) can continue to slander these insurance companies—until they need to work with them on legislation. They can continue
to call Americans stupid and fake—until they need them to vote for them.

If we were to follow Mr. Matthews' thought, “nobody has the right” to squander the President’s vision. There should be
no opposition to the President. Citizens, media, commentators, opinion-makers, pundits—anyone in opposition to the President’s plans should remain silent. I
have one thing to say to Mr. Matthews, and all those who agree with him: we live in a democracy,
and I have the right to oppose the President’s policy vision. Thank God that in this country, I can oppose
the most powerful man in the free world. To claim that “nobody has the right” to oppose the President is
simply un-American.

Democrats cannot continue to ignore the will of the people with their legislation. Our “post-partisan” president has either lobbied for
or signed into law enormous pieces of legislation—cap-and-trade, the budget, the stimulus—with fewer than 15 Republican votes in total. People
will not be walked on forever. The Obama Administration cannot be judged as a failed administration yet, but I can
assure you that if he continues the current path—campaigning and not governing, representing far-left interests, and ignoring the American people—he
will not be reelected in 2012. The same goes for the dozens of freshman and conservative Democrats in Congress.

Let Obama work? I agree, let him work. But I hope that he will work harder to represent the American
people that elected him instead of working to promulgate a vision that many Americans do not share.

Ryan Gough ’10 is a political science major from Elizabethton, TN. Contact him at rygough@davidson.edu
