THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

Commons changes for the worst

CHARLIE REITER, MAURICIO SIMMS, AND MARK “THE SHARK” MILLARD
Guest Columnists

Let us preface this article by saying that we love Commons (why else would we spend over 30 hours during
exam time making a video about the place?). Besides being on the soccer field or in the classroom, most of
our waking hours are spent in the one and only cafeteria that provides so much happiness to our campus. Although
we could write a few verbose novels on why Commons is the cradle of civilization, certain changes have disappointed us.
Simply because Barack Obama was elected president, does not mean that Commons needs to be swept up in the quest
for change; it should stay true to its well-established traditions.

The first week is always a bit bittersweet, especially after falling into a familiar routine the previous year. Having just
spent the whole of last year adjusting to the unwritten rules of Commons, a new change sweeps through. Obviously, we
are overjoyed to be back in our natural habitat with an influx of new eye candy, but some of the
freshman/prospie etiquette needs to be addressed: Freshmen must learn that the traffic pattern at the drink machine is not a
two-way street. There have been countless times this year in which two freshmen have faced off in a game of
chicken simply to get a Coke. And, like Anakin Skywalker, freshmen seem unable to resist the allure of the Dark
Side. It pains us to admit that one of our own freshman teammates innocently suggested, “we should try sitting over
there... I like the hardwood floors and round tables.” Finally, two or three-man freshman clusters with no rhyme or reason
make it increasingly impossible for battle-tested veterans such as ourselves to secure prime seating for a hearty meal. We can
only hope that next year Davidson 101 will replace Realizing Your Risk with Commonomics.

Besides Chester’s slimmer figure, Commons’ furniture is easily the most visible change this year. It seems that Extreme Home Makeover’s
Ty Pennington gave utility and comfort the shaft in favor of a gaudy face-lift. As the old adage goes, “if
it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.” Instead, focus on censoring trash like the Davidson Quarterly Journal, which just about ruined
our breakfast. Furniture topics that are just as disturbing: One wouldn’t send a soldier into battle without ammo, so why
send us into a 2-hour Commons marathon after a long day of classes without armrests or cushioning? It makes playing
footsie with your Commons date difficult when you are brutally forced to sit 3 feet away from the table due
to the absurdly large steel bases. Those who elect to sit on the Dark Side would be wise to avoid
a similar fate to Humpty Dumpty while sitting on the new high chairs. Perhaps a new addition next year could
be guardrails for those afraid of heights. If the old maroon Commons chairs equipped with armrests were suitable enough for
former Commander-in-Chief and Davidson graduate Woodrow Wilson, there is no reason why 5-year senior Steve Rossiter could not tolerate them
for at least one more year.

In a further attempt to confuse old Commons war hawks, corporate has decided to make logistical and culinary adjustments that
have many Davidson scholars scratching their heads. No one would argue that efficiency and gastronomic upgrades are a bad thing,
but who authorized these dubious legislations? The new location of the line for the special at the sandwich bar (no
longer next to the grill line but near the pizza station) and the complex 2-line maze has dumbfounded even the
most wily of sandwich connoisseurs. The result has been increased congestion, longer wait times, and the impossibility of stealing someone
else’s special order. Lastly, no fro-yo. We repeat: no fro-yo. Not only does this deny students of a tasty treat,
but also it encourages the unhealthy option of real ice cream, thus promoting the dreaded Freshman Fifteen. Instead of creating
mass hysteria from these changes, Commons should have simply brought back grilled cheese to the grill line, added roast beef
to the sandwich bar, and created a separate but equal line for those who move slowly through the cat card
line.

In the end, while we strongly object to these changes, none of them are blasphemous enough to sour our taste
or diminish our love for the glory that is Commons.

Charlie Reiter ’10 is a Political Science major from Westport, CT. Mauricio Simms ’11 is a Philosophy major from Bowie,
MD. Mark “The Shark” Millard ’12 is undeclared. He is from Oak Hill, NC. They can be contacted at chreiter@davidson.edu,
masimms@davidson.edu, and mamillard@davidson.edu, respectively.

Finding the good life at Davidson

Bryan Norris
Perspectives Editor

Every year, the perspectives section gets an article from a sad, jaded senior who has, in their estimation, failed to
fully utilize their all-too-brief time at Davidson College. Inevitably, the article carries on about courses not taken or extracurricular groups
not joined, and this senior, because of his or her generosity, has taken time and energy out of their final
year in college to let the freshmen and sophomores (sorry juniors, it’s already too late for you) know how to
best fulfill their potential on campus. This, hopefully, is not exactly that article.

Maybe it is my sudden and pessimistic realization that the last four years of my life will be totally and
completely unlike anything else for as long as I live, or maybe it is my potential future in grad school
weighing down on me in the form of 5 massive LSAT preparation books, but I just recently felt pressed to
reflect on my time here at Davidson so that I might help myself come to terms with my present reality.
Currently, it appears to me that I have a lot of stuff to work through for my own sake. So
no, I’m not writing this article for the benefit of underclassmen. I’m not trying to pass along some kind of
grizzled wisdom or hard-learned lessons.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Sorry readers, but this one’s all for my benefit. That said, I do genuinely hope that someone will read this
piece, maybe a fellow senior, and see some of their own experiences or mistakes in it. Or, maybe an underclassman
will read this article and think to themselves, “Yeah, this guy really screwed up. Gotta make sure I never do
that.” If you are an underclassman reading this, then take care to heed my first warning: don’t listen to upperclassmen
and their advice. Yes, it’s a paradox, I get it. I’m still serious. Hall counsellors are an incredible resource. Some
of my best friends during my time at Davidson were either my hall counsellors or hall counsellors for incoming students.
Still, they are upperclassmen, and I’ve received some bad advice from those more acclimatized to life at Davidson. I was
told once by a junior that not figuring out your major or your area of study (Sciences vs. Humanities) was
totally fine, and that it would give me the opportunity to both grow as a student and maybe stumble upon
a field of study or department that I’d absolutely love, a discovery I might not have made had I not
taken that Intro to Psychology class for fun freshman year. Well, as it turns out, honing in on a major
and coming into your first two semesters with a plan is of enormous benefit. I’m not saying that students shouldn’t
branch out and learn something new, this is a liberal arts college after all. I only mean that if you
come from high school loving Marxist political theory and, after taking a few courses on it, still find Engels’s gargantuan
beard endlessly alluring, just major in political science. Failing to focus on something that you truly find fascinating and want
to study for the next four years is dangerous and perhaps even damaging to your academic career. Incidentally, this brings
me to another point that, given the previous sentence, is also a paradox. I figure I’m doing pretty good so
far. At some point in the last academic year, Just Peace asked the campus via the Free Speech Board: “If
you could go to Davidson all over again, what would you do differently,” or at least something to that effect
(In truth, I feel bad putting that in quotes because I’m fairly certain that’s not the actual quote, but that’s
what I took away from it anyway. And even if that wasn’t the actual question, it’d be a good one,
so suck it up and deal with my bad memory). The board was covered with insights from different students, and
maybe faculty as well, all of which offered different thoughts about how they’d approach their time here if there were
things like second chances (I could go off on Michael Vick here, but I’ll leave that to Logan in Sports).
Intrigued by some of the comments from my more overworked peers, I grabbed a brown marker and scrawled, “Folks, school
ain’t a job.” I really think it is that simple. You should be concerned about your grades, your work ethic,
and your method for efficient time management, but don’t think your boss is going to fire you if you aren’t
completely freaked out about getting an A on your paper, or that you won’t get that promotion to graduate student
if you take some of your time off to hang out with friends. Davidson is a tough school, but it
is much more than tough, and much more than a school. Anyway, if anybody reading this found what I had
to say helpful in planning their coming years at this institution, then hallelujah and huzzah. If not, well then that’s
alright too.

Bryan Norris ’10 is a political science major from Charlotte, NC. Contact him at brnorris@davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2009

We are told of examples of compassion and the need for more of it. We are told to have compassion
for the uninsured, for the afflicted, for murderers, pedophiles, and terrorists. It is a great compliment to justice. However, with
all of these calls and praise for compassionate individuals, have we lost the real meaning of compassion?

Libya finally handed them over to Scottish Authorities for trial in the Netherlands. In 2001, Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed Al Megrahi
was convicted and sentenced to life in prison with the possibility of parole. In late 2008, it was announced that
the mass murderer was dying of cancer (a diagnosis which has been questioned), prompting Scotland’s Minister of Justice to release
him home to Libya on August 20. The release has also been questioned because it appears that the UK is
receiving energy deals in return. During Justice Minister MacAskill’s press conference, he uttered several statements of unconscionable ignorance; one of
which was, “Our beliefs dictate that justice be served, but mercy be shown. Compassion and mercy are about upholding the
beliefs that we seek to live by, remaining true to our values as a people, no matter the severity of
the provocation or the atrocity perpetrated.” Exactly how was justice served? Al Megrahi served 11.5 days per murder he committed.
What values is Scotland still true to? The release repudiates any idea that they support freedom or the need to
stand firm against evil. Scotland has shown that they value the need of a dying terrorist to spend his last
days at home more than actual victims, innocent individuals whose lives were wrecked the instant Flight 103 landed. It is
not as if the previous administration was the best at this either. Compare President Obama’s response to the arrest of
Henry Louis Gates and his response to the release of Al Megrahi. Will terrorists now see the West in a
better light and cease their destructive tendencies? No; instead, they see a dying terrorist being released and are emboldened.

Bobby Despain is undeclared. He is from St. Louis, Mo. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.
