THE DAVIDSONIAN

MLK, from page 1

generation to lead and to lead by serving,” but urged this new generation to lead America into a better era
of education. Dr. Hrabrowski was a child-leader in the Civil Rights Movement, a Birmingham, Alabama native who marched with Dr.
King. In his speech, he shared his account of leading a group of children through police officers and dogs to
Birmingham’s City Hall. Hrabrowski recalled how the officers whispered insults at the group so that news cameras wouldn’t pick up
the sound, trying to provoke them to violence, but their provocation was unsuccessful. “We were taught to sing to deal
with the fear,” Hrabrowski remembered. Hrabrowski’s group made it to City Hall, and when they arrived, the police commissioner asked
him, “What do you want, little negro?” Hrabrowski said he shakily replied, “We want to kneel and pray.” When the
commissioner asked “What for?” Hrabrowski said, “We want to pray for our freedom.” With that, the commissioner threw Hrabrowski into
the paddy-wagon and sent him off to jail where he fended off aggressors by passionately reading the Bible. He still
vividly remembers Dr. King’s words to him and his fellow activists: “What you children do today will have an impact
on children yet unborn.”

As the audience emerged from the Community Convocation, they were greeted with the music of The Mallard Creek House of
Prayer for All People shout band. Then they were free to choose from a variety of seminars. Darrell Scott ’10
presented a seminar entitled “From King to Obama: Reevaluating College Student Activism Across Identities,” Prof. Nancy Fairley and Natasha Rivera
’12 spoke about “Songs of the Movement,” and Political Science Professor Susan Roberts explained “The Election of Barack Obama: Beneath
and Beyond the Historic Movement.”

Professor Roberts’s lecture opened a discussion of the international celebration over President Obama’s victory. One woman spoke of people dancing
in the streets of Madagascar and words of congratulations from Spain. The audience questioned whether the world’s optimistic reception was
due to the end of the Bush era or if it was also a celebration of America’s progress past racial
issues. While Dr. Roberts pointed out that throughout the election “Barack Obama did not play the race card,” she said
that his

Grameen CEO
By Francisco FIALLO
Staff Writer

The global profile of microcredit as an anti-poverty tool has increased over the past decade, culminating in the 2006 Nobel
Peace Prize, awarded to microfinance pioneer Dr. Muhammad Yunus and his Grameen Bank. Next Wednesday evening, Alex Counts, President and
CEO of the Grameen Foundation, will detail microfinance’s current success and future development in a lecture entitled “Microfinance: A Platform
for Change.”

Microfinance was born in 1976, when Yunus began to make small loans to impoverished women in Jobra, Bangladesh. These women,
who made bamboo furniture, were unable to obtain credit from commercial moneylenders at a reasonable interest rate but could pay
back Yunus’ loans once their businesses. Yunus, who was able to make a net profit on the loan, founded the
Grameen Bank to develop the use of such direct loans to the poor in order to fight poverty in Bangladesh.
While it continues to offer traditional microcredit (loans of less than $200), the bank has also expanded into other financial
services, such as savings and insurance.

The Grameen Foundation was founded by Counts, a pupil and colleague of Yunus, in order to marshal resources in the
United States and apply the Grameen Bank model on a global scale. The foundation works by providing funding and expertise
to its partners, known as microfinance institutions (MFIs). The MFIs then provide those loans directly to those in poverty. The
Grameen Foundation has grown from

PME: Students share a moment of reflection with civil rights leader, university president and education activist Dr. Hrabrowski.Victory does show
that “The US is transcending some questions of race.” After the seminars, a viewing and discussion of the documentary *Tim
Wise on White Privilege: Racism, White Denial and the Cost of Inequality* took place. Dean Ernest Jeffries said that he
saw “more consensus reached,” and that “people walked away yesterday in a good place.” The celebration ended with a Gospel
Extravaganza in the Duke Performance Hall featuring guest Pastor John P. Kee and New Life of Charlotte, who just returned
from performing at inauguration events in Washington, D.C. Other performers were Brothers in Christ of Gethsemane Baptist Church of Davidson,
The Chosen Disciples of Asheboro, N.C., and guest Pastor Jeffrey Thomas.

Though no one at Davidson’s celebrations claimed Dr. King’s dream complete, Dean Jeffries said of President Obama’s inauguration, “Some of
the pieces of his dream are coming together.” As the Davidson community looked from one leader to another, reflecting upon
where America was in Dr. King’s day to where America is now in President Obama’s time, the satisfaction that comes
with change and the pride that comes with progress were unmistakably present. Dr. Hrabrowski spoke the minds of many when
he said, “Thank God for Dr. King, and may God bless President Obama.”

The foundation also supports technology initiatives in Cameroon, Kenya, Rwanda, and Uganda. The current structural process of microcredit involves lending
to a group of five peers, who are then responsible for paying back the loan. Lenders meet weekly with the
peer groups, in order to train borrowers, monitor their performance, and get feedback from borrowers on successful (and unsuccessful) business
strategies. The majority of loans from the Grameen Bank finance artisan projects in less developed countries.

The money available for microfinance comes not from deposits—as it does in traditional commercial banks—but from grants and donations from
governments and the philanthropic sector. It is not immediately clear just what impact the credit market disruptions of the past
year will have on microfinance. As economic growth in developed nations declines, there may be fewer donations and grants to
fuel microfinance activity. Nevertheless, since the recipients of microcredit tend to be outside formal economic structures, it is possible that
repayment rates—measured as the percentage of loans that are repaid by peer groups—will stay about the same (around 97 percent
for the Grameen Bank). And since microfinance profits are reinvested rather than paid out to shareholders, the amount of capital
available for lending increases. On the other hand, the emergence of microfinance divisions in large commercial banks—Citigroup started its microfinance
group in 2005—could extend the liquidity crisis to the bottom of the global economic ladder.

The lecture is jointly sponsored by the Dean Rusk Student Advisory Committee and the Davidson Microfinance Club (DMC). The DMC
itself acts as a lender, using donations and grants to fund microcredit in the developing world. DMC members research different
entrepreneurs and loan structures and then pitch those loans to the general membership, which votes on whom to lend to.
Those loans are then carried out through the non-profit organization Kiva, which distributes and collects on them. The DMC is
then free to use the principal and interest of those loans on additional projects. The DMC will also be starting
a loan drive, which will match donations from the Davidson community and package them into loans. Donors who make large
enough donations ($10 or more) will be allowed to select the recipients of their loans.

The lecture will take place next Wednesday, January 27, at 7:00 P.M. in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room, in
the Alvarez College Union.
