2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Despite economy, bookstore continues

KATHERINE MILLER
Editor-in-Chief

While the College administration strives to ensure that the economic downturn does not affect the lives of Davidson students, one
facet of College finances remains largely unaffected—the Davidson College Bookstore. Despite current economic concerns, the bookstore actually continues to bring
in higher earnings than preceding years.

Last season’s successful basketball run contributed incalculably to the College’s renown and reputation. Benefits of heightened national awareness since the
2007-2008 season continue to impact the campus. According to Bookstore Manager Gwen Gardner, most college bookstores are currently experiencing a
decline in sales, while Davidson’s national exposure ensures the opposite from occurring on this campus.

The Bookstore garnered approximately $419,000 from clothing sales during the 2006-2007 school year. Due in large part to the basketball
team’s extraordinary run last March, the 2007-2008 school year saw an increase in clothing sales to $1,020,000. Equally impressive is
the fact that, compared to Jan. 2008 versus Jan. 2009, sales on clothing were up by 160 percent, even though
Jan. falls before March Madness. This increase is “very indicative of the interest people have in Davidson,” Gardner said.

Where, then, does the money go? The Bookstore is self-sufficient, in that all employees and orders are compensated out of
the Bookstore’s own profits. After breaking even on costs, all additional income from the Bookstore directly contributes to the College
General Fund.

Another indication of Davidson’s merchandise popularity is the Bookstore website. In 2007, the website received 26,006 hits, versus 2008’s 96,842
hits. At one point, staff feared the website would crash during the height of last season’s popularity. Luckily, the website
managed to stay running but received orders so rapidly that staff could not fill the number of orders that came
in every day. The Bookstore was given a room in Baker for the sole purpose of fulfilling web orders.

Six full-time employees, in addition to seven work-study students, comprise the regular payroll. During busy times (e.g. the beginning of
the semester book rush), the Bookstore hires temps to ease the demands on staff. Given that the Bookstore employees experienced
significantly greater workloads last spring, one would assume hiring extra help a necessary next step. In fact, “last year was
amazing because we had so many people volunteer,” Gardner said. These volunteers and the existing staff, “felt like we were
all a part of the same wonderful phenomenon.”

The stress on staff extended to our vendors, including the Russell vendor from Charlotte, who came to campus every day
for two and a half weeks. In fact, the Nike Witness shirts were a special deal; generally, the order would
have been too small to warrant Nike participation. The success and notoriety of the team, however, earned Nike’s involvement and
cooperation.

“This increase is very indicative of the interest people have in Davidson.” -Gwen Gardner, Bookstore Manager

The phenomenal season inevitably engenders the question: what’s next? No one could have anticipated the enormity of last year’s public
response to the basketball team’s success. This year, however, the Bookstore will be prepared for any outcome—but not without securities
in case of a (knock on wood) less victorious season. Every clothing order is already placed, including the quantity and
design for each step of the tournament. In fact, Gardner revealed the designs for shirts all the way up to
the NCAA Championship.

Given the eventuality of a win, an order will be filled the next day and shipped as soon as possible.
The set quantity will be increased according to demand. Should the team not progress to the next step of the
tournament, the order will not be filled, ensuring the College does not sustain any financial loss from unsold apparel. Last
year, luckily, the Bookstore sold almost the entirety of its basketball line, as well as an unprecedented amount of regular
Davidson ware.

As anyone who attended a game this season is aware, the Bookstore now sells merchandise at home games. GardnerReports indicate
that this stand definitely contributes to increased sales. The Bookstore also extends its hours before home basketball games, as community
members and other fans enjoy the opportunity to buy shirts or jerseys. Merchandise will also be going on the road
for the first time. Six Bookstore staff will accompany the team to Chattanooga for the SoCon Tournament with two vans
full of gear. The athletic department reserved a space in the Sheraton Hotel where the team and their families will
be staying. This decision came in response to unmet demand at previous important games, when fans wanted to buy gear
and found no source of merchandise on hand. Preparations have been collaborative in order to ensure a professional, impressive, and
well-planned display; “we don’t want to go and have people think Davidson is not a classy place,” Gardner said.

SGA is seeking student input on potential curriculum changes. SGA is conducting seven forums next week to hear student concerns
related to the curriculum. The faculty and executive staff of the College are considering major changes to the curriculum and
will draft a final proposal for review by the Trustees later this semester. SGA hopes to influence this process by
providing student input. Email any questions to Davis Greene at dagreene@davidson.edu.

Forums:
- Monday, Feb. 23rd: Union 302 - 7 to 8 PM, Union 302 - 8 to 9 PM
- Tuesday, Feb. 24th: Union 302 - 5 to 6 PM, Union 302 - 6 to 7 PM
- Wednesday, Feb. 25th: Union 313 - 4 to 5 PM, Union 313 - 8 to 9 PM
- Thursday, Feb. 26th: Union 302 - 6 to 7 PM

Housing Lottery Dates:
- Feb. 18, 7:00 p.m.: Lottery 101: Lottery Overview, Lilly Gallery
- Feb. 20, Noon: Substance-Free Applications Due, RLO Office
- Feb. 24, 4:00 p.m.: Sub-Free Selection, RLO Office
- Feb. 25: Lottery Numbers Available on RLO Website
- Feb. 27, Noon: Special Housing & Off-campus Apps Due, RLO Office
- March 10, 4:00 p.m.: Theme / Eco-house room selection, RLO Office
- March 12, 8:00 p.m.: Off-Campus Meeting, Sprinkle Room
- March 16: Deadline for on-leave forms
- March 17, Noon: 5-person apps due, RLO Office
- March 18, 5:00 p.m.: 5-person selection, Tomlinson Conference Room
- March 20, Noon: 4-person apps due, RLO Office
- March 26, 6:00 p.m.: 4-person selection, Tomlinson Conference Room
- April 1: Off-campus housing granted (2nd round) if openings
- April 2, 6:00 p.m.: Singles lottery, Lilly Gallery
- April 8, 6:00 p.m.: Clusters, suites, & double room lottery, Lilly Gallery

Incident Reports:
- 02/09/09, 21:28: Fire at Duke Dormitory. Officer was dispatched to Duke Dorm in reference to a fire alarm. Upon
arrival, the officer along with Davidson Fire observed smoke coming from the kitchen on the 1st floor. A student advised
that she had been cooking pasta and had left the room for a minute, and when she returned it was
smoking. Davidson Fire reset the alarm and all was all right.
- 02/06/09, 00:30: Other incident at Jackson Ct. Officer conducted a zone check at Jackson Ct, 429 Concord Rd. While
in front of the Business Services building, the reporting officer observed a yellow pry bar on the ground in front
of a window. The window faces Faculty Dr. on the Northwest corner of the building. The reporting officer searched the
exterior of the building; no visible pry marks were observed on any windows or doors. The pry bar was seized
and is now in possession of the Campus Police, pending further investigation.
- 02/05/09, 17:53: Crime Prevention at Duke Dormitory. Officer conducted a community meeting for the residents at Duke Dormitory. Officer
spoke with six students attending the meeting. Officer presented material from the outlined information and opened the floor for questions.
The only two questions asked were about parking, which the officer explained to the students.

Study Abroad:
If you are curious and adventurous, then pack your bags and say goodbye to the status quo. Study abroad to
earn college credit, experience a different culture, learn a foreign language, discover who you are, and much more. USAC, your
gateway to the world.
