THE DAVIDSONIAN

80 different oat vendors - for phone service, so each phone vendor is going to address that incoming message one
particular way, just as our system is going to address 2,200 phones, emails, and texts. Basically, we choked the system
to what it could take. The test was successful but revealed several areas where the system can be fine-tuned to
effectively meet campus needs. As a result of this test, Poli will now be able to decide what aspect of
the system it wants to employ based on the emergency situation. “Now that I know it works, next time I
can actually make a conscious decision to only...

One concern voiced by some students involved the number of messages. They noted that letting it happen and then writing
a program that will prevent this from happening at this point, logate and contact people. Cer warned that the process
and people need to continue on. Keep on waiting for the public address. If you see the threat, then you
get away.

Students and guests participate in a group panel discussion on “The Faces of Homelessness” hosted by United Community Action last
Thursday in the 900 Room.

Rave 11-11 a success, thanks to seminar
Maria FACKLER
Guest Columnist

Last Wednesday, Nov. 11, Vail Commons was the site of Davidson College’s first flash mob: a rave, complete with glow
sticks and electronica, in the “Dark Side” of the room. Rave Eleven Eleven had been publicized widely—and enigmatically—for the two
weeks leading up to the event. Posters were strewn around campus (even tucked into napkin dispensers), announcements appeared in the
Crier, a puzzling sidebar allusion popped up on the front page of The Davidsonian, a Facebook page appeared devoted to
the dance (with friend requests and updates to boot), and someone chalked the campus overnight to publicize it.

But important information was withheld: Who was hosting this so-called rave? Would it be in the middle of the night?
On Patterson Court? Since details were not forthcoming, rumors began to circulate: it was a fraternity event, a Ben and
Jerry’s stunt, a sociology experiment. But very few students sussed out the true identity of the event planners—the twelve students
of English 492, the seminar on Gossip.

As part of their semester-long investigation, these students were asked to imagine a group project that could reveal something about
the operations of gossip in a closed community such as Davidson’s. On the first day of class, they studied YouTube
videos of flash mobs: events in which a large group gets together in public all of a sudden and performs
some choreographed activity, only to disperse just as quickly and unceremoniously. Since “flash mobs” are often arranged via email, the
idea of organizing one at the college dovetailed nicely with the students’ concerns with networking and the circulation of gossip
on campus.

As 11/11 approached, Sarah Bennett, Meryl Breeden, Kiki Diven, Nikki Gutierrez, Stacey Helmerich, Lizzie Hyland, Brenna Kelly, Elizabeth Lacks, Billy
LeBas, Katie Miller, Amanda Whitton, and Laura Zulliger worked overtime to organize the rave and drum up the gossip necessary
for its success. The rave had to have a patina of mystery: it had to be...Alluring in order to get
people talking and curious enough to show up at the appointed hour. With everything in place—thanks in no small part
to the help of Dee Philips, Director of Dining Services at Commons—all that was left to do was email the
chosen flash mob with the details. On November 10, the twelve gossip students sent out a cryptic missive that included
instructions such as, “When the music stops your moves should too. Act like nothing happened and go back to your
tables (nonchalance is the goal...).” The email signature—“You know you love me. Xoxo”—with its allusion to Gossip Girl, was the
single clue as to the organizers’ identity. Though the classmates sent it only to their immediate friends, the information spread
rapidly. Freshmen with no discernible links to the seniors in the course knew the full details of the flash mob
and were planning on participating.

With email and Facebook messages getting bandied about with viral speed, the interest seemed to grow exponentially. As students filed
into Commons, the line was abuzz with expectation and excitement. People lingered in their seats, in no hurry to leave
in case they missed the action. The room was packed to capacity and, according to the CatCard reader, the number
of people dining in Commons jumped from 332 students at 6 pm to over 600 at 6:50 pm. “It’s the
first I’ve seen it this busy with no seats. I didn’t believe it when they told me to come and
look,” Executive Chef Craig Mombert remarked. At no other time, other than Thanksgiving Dinner, has Commons hosted so many students
in such a concentrated time period. The mob was working its charm and it hadn’t even begun yet.

Meanwhile, the class members responsible for all this energy were understandably nervous. What if no one got up to dance
with them and they were left alone, in the middle of Commons, fist pumping to “Sandstorm”? And for two whole
minutes that would surely pass like treadmill minutes? The indignity of it could have been completely mortifying. But as soon
as Hyland and Kelly gave the cue and dropped their empty trays, hundreds of students poured over into the “Dark
Side” to dance frenetically amidst the tables.

As our class looks back on the flash mob, what the event tells us about gossip at Davidson might not,
finally, be as important as what it tells us about our community more broadly. To see hundreds of students check
their egos at the door with their umbrellas and backpacks and let loose for two minutes was to see an
exercise in solidarity. Though it might seem a Pollyanna-ish notion, perhaps the idea we can take from the flash rave
is that such enthusiasm, harnessed to other agendas, can be a kind of inspiration capable of taking us outside of
ourselves and raising us to action. If we can be this efficient at organizing gossip, what else can we do?

Maria Fackler is an Assistant Professor of English and teaches the Gossip seminar.

Interested in writing for News in the Spring? Contact kelilley or cawood for more information and stay tuned for an
informational meeting.
