10 The Davidsonian WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009 SPORTS | 

Current BCS system pleases no one

Sree, hel ZERO LEE
Athle Logan LEwI
Sports Section Editor

Now that the conference championships have been decided, college football enthusiasts who are not residents of Tuscaloosa, AL or Austin, TX have an age-old bone to pick with the BCS. Once again, an entire college football season full of excitement and breathtaking performances has culminated in an ultimately inconclusive national championship match-up. With no playoff system in place and five undefeated teams remaining from various conferences, critics of the BCS rear their ugly heads, complaining that college football has become more about the money than the game. The bowl games are sponsored by various companies and organizations and they all bring in a substantial amount of money, especially the popular BCS games.

A restructuring of the current bowl system could allow for sponsors to keep bringing in the dough while leaving fans even more enthused by crowning a legitimate national champion—an accomplishment the current system cannot boast this year, no matter the result of the Jan. games. This restructured system would maintain the current BCS ranking system but would eliminate the conference championship games. The new system would limit schedules to 11 games, removing an unnecessary game with an FCS opponent. The conclusion of the regular season would be the weekend before Thanksgiving. The top 8 teams at that point according to the BCS would be awarded a chance to decide the national championship on the field in a playoff format. The remaining teams would participate in the same lackluster bowl games which exist now in order to appease the fans of those teams and to fill the pockets of corporate sponsors. This new system would take the top seven bowl game venues and use them for playoff sites, rotating each year so each sponsor would have its turn to host the national championship game. In this way, the national championship would still be set by this time of December and the championship game would be played on Jan. 1, beginning the New Year with a bang.

Under this new system, no team would play more than 14 games, the same number of games Boise State could win this season, without so much as sniffing the national championship. This new system would help to eliminate conference bias and unfounded assumptions. This year’s second-ranked Texas Longhorns made it into the national championship by about eight inches when their placekicker Hunter Lawrence squeezed in a 46-yard field goal as time expired. Texas has narrowly escaped with victories in their last two games in a subpar Big 12 Conference, but will participate in the national championship because their conference is considered stronger than TCU’s. While TCU’s Mountain West Conference is often considered weak, it currently boasts three teams ranked in the top 25 compared to the same number in the Big 12. TCU has also defeated their opponents by a large margin of victory this year, averaging nearly 41 points per game and allowing only about 12. Texas has similar numbers to its credit, scoring about 41 points and giving up about 15. Why is it then so clear that Texas should

Martin ’11 leads ’Cats at Nike Invitational

ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

Davidson swimming finished off its 2009 season with a tough meet in Gambier, Ohio against various other schools at Kenyon’s Nike Invitational. On Thursday, the competition heated up in the 800 free relay and the miles. Starting things off for Davidson was the women’s 800 free relay where the ’Cats’ A and B squads took third and ninth, respectively. For the men’s same relay, Davidson brought home 10th and 15th place finishes. For the distance contestants, the ’Cats swam well in both the men’s and women’s miles. For the ladies’ 1650 yard event,Jessica Delgehausen ’11 took home seventh place. Her teammates Caitlin Sheetz ’10 and Meagan Madden ’12 also swam the race, finishing in 11th and 19th places. For the men’s mile, David Kerman ’12 and Chris Leonard ’13 finished in 17th and 19th places, respectively. 

Competition continued on Friday with another prelims and finals session. Multiple Wildcat Davidson swimmers made it back for the Friday night swimming. The evening started with the women’s 200 freestyle relay which the Davidson A Relay dominated. The team of Emily Castle ’11, Jean DeOrnellas ’13, Alexa Richardson ’11, and Lindsey Martin ’11 finished the race in a time of 1:36.17. For the men’s relay, Davidson took home seventh place. Other top finishers for Friday night included Kelsi Hobbs ’13 with a fourth place finish in the 200-yard fly, Lauren Kamperman ’12 with a sixth place finish in the 400 IM. Martin won in the 200-yard freestyle and Drew Onken ’13 swam the 400 IM in school record time.

Saturday was full of tough racing once again as the Cats competed in both prelims and finals. Highlights for Saturday night included Emily Castle’s first place finish in the 100-yard fly with a time of 56.41 seconds. Other stellar performers included Martin with another first place finish, this time in the 100-yard freestyle. The ’Cats will continue training and competing into the second semester.

Play for the national championship and TCU should be snubbed? It doesn’t make sense to me either. The numbers do not lie. When Texas has played legitimate defenses in Nebraska and Oklahoma, the Longhorns have failed to score more than 16 points. This past weekend, golden boy McCoy and the high-and-mighty offensive attack from Texas were snuffed out for only 202 total yards and one touchdown. They won because they played against a team with an inferior offense. A new system would allow all of this to be settled on the gridiron instead of on spreadsheets. Each of the five undefeated teams along with Florida, Oregon, and Ohio State would be allowed to write their own script, rather than have it done for them by a faulty computer system.

Men’s Basketball
Results:
12/3 @ The Citadel W 74-63
12/5 @ C of C L 55-67
12/5 @ Western W 62-51
Next Up:
12/12 @ Gonzaga
12/18 vs. Chattanooga
Notes: Jake Cohen ’13 and JP Kuhlman ’13 each tallied career-highs in points in their first collegiate starts as the ’Cats topped Citadel on Thursday for their first SoCon win.

Swimming and Diving
Results:
Fall Season Over
Offseason
10/3 Nike Results
12/5 Davidson Open NTS
Next Up:
1/24 UNC Classic @ Chapel Hill, NC
Notes: Drew Onken ’13 led the Wildcat men with three titles in the 200 backstroke, breaststroke, and individual medley events.

Tennis
Results:
Offseason
Next Up:
1/16 @ Clemson
Notes: Both the men’s and women’s teams are hopeful that their strong play in the fall will carry over to the spring as both teams open play January 16.

Track and Field
Results:
Offseason
Next Up:
1/16 @ Virginia Tech
Notes: The Wildcats continue to prepare for their season opener, the UNC Classic, scheduled for January 24.

Women’s Basketball
Results:
11/30 @ Furman W 81-78
12/2 @ Duke L 13-36
12/7 vs. App. State L 59-68
12/13 vs. Wofford
12/18 @ Radford
Notes: Sophia Aleksandravicious ’13 registered her second double-double of the week, also the first two of her career, in Monday’s loss to App. State.

Wrestling (2-6, 1-1)
Results:
12/2 @ Duke L 13-36
12/7 vs. TCNJ
Notes: Alex Radsky ’11 won his first career tournament title in the 133-lb class at the Davidson Open. Charlie Wolff ’11 and Ben Altman ’10 also placed in their respective classes.