4 Tue

DAVIDSONIAN

By Alissa Irei
Staff Writer

Jon Sawyer, founding director of the three-year-old Pulitzer Center for Crisis Reporting, opened his lecture in Tyler-Tallman Hall Monday night
by solemnly intoning, in a dirge-like cadence, the series of unfortunate events that have befallen the journalism industry in the
last several years—since, in Sawyer’s words, “the bottom dropped out” of the news business. The Chicago Tribune is filing for
bankruptcy and contemplating closing its Washington and foreign bureaus. National Public Radio is letting seven percent of its staff go.
The Miami Herald is for sale, but no one wants to buy it—at least not for the right reasons. (Apparently
the most attractive part of the Herald package is not its tradition of journalistic excellence, but rather the ocean view
land on which it sits.) Everyone is slashing budgets, laying off staff and trying to do more with less. The
news for the news industry is bad, and getting worse.

“So that’s the really depressing part of my message tonight,” Sawyer said with mock brightness. The audience laughed, sounding relieved.
After all, no one was dressed for a funeral.

Certainly, there was plenty in Sawyer’s presentation, and in his subsequent interview with The Davidsonian, to roundly discourage journalists and
those who value good journalism. In just one example, the Anna Nicole Smith story received more coverage on American television
cable and network news last year than did any foreign country other than Iraq (according to the Pew Research Foundation).
Ultimately though, Sawyer’s message was a sincerely hopeful one, more prophetic than funereal.

“I’m not naive about the dark news in journalism,” Sawyer said. “The evidence is all around us and scarcely needs
elaboration. Assuredly these are not easy years for journalists.” But Sawyer said he thinks we will “look back on these
as the best of times, when we worked together to reinvigorate this craft that is so important to us all.”

A center facilitating reports on underreported global crises, the non-profit Pulitzer Center for Crisis Reporting is also a center fighting
to address the crisis facing American news. Sawyer articulated the goal of the center concisely and often, “to raise the
quantity and coverage of global issues in American mass media.” The vision sounds straightforward, but the means by which Sawyer
and his colleagues are pursuing this end are potentially revolutionary. While newspapers and other outlets have been cutting their foreign
reporting budgets at alarming rates, claiming that the costs are simply prohibitive, Sawyer argues that if done efficiently, reporting from
abroad does not have to break the bank. The Center itself runs on a relatively tiny budget ($330,000 in its
first year, $540,000 in 2006, and $750,000 last year), still managing to create 30 to 40 extensive, high-quality, innovative multimedia
stories annually.

“That says something about the naysayers in my business who say that we simply can’t afford to do this sort
of coverage,” Sawyer said. It might cost a newspaper $250,000 to $300,000 a year to operate one foreign bureau, as
estimated by Sawyer. In contrast, he said, the Pulitzer Center never spends more than $20,000 on a project, with an
average cost of about $10,000. Successful global coverage takes “passion and will, and a willingness to reach out and collaborate,”
said Sawyer, not necessarily a huge bottom line. Projects at the Pulitzer Center are far-reaching, running on multiple innovative platforms,
in print, film, radio, and online.

Chem renovation delayed

Alex Kowaleski
Staff Writer

Throughout the past decade, Davidson’s campus has undergone many improvements. The Alvarez Student Union was moved from what is now
the Sloan Music Building to its current location, Chambers Building was expanded, and the Physics, Biology, and Psychology Departments all
received additional space. Most recently, Richardson Dormitory was remodeled, and Cunningham Theater was renovated. One building, however, that has not
been improved recently is Martin Chemistry building. Unfortunately, current economic conditions are forcing a delay in renovating Martin.

Two years ago, Davidson met with architects to discuss the possibility of expanding and renovating Martin to meet the Chemistry
Department’s needs. Martin suffers from a number of deficiencies. Firstly, the Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning system (HVAC) was assembled
piecemeal, with separate systems installed whenever the building was renovated in the past. According to Dr. Erland Stevens, Chair of
the Chemistry Department, “Martin is a maintenance nightmare.” The system takes up more space than needed, and with multiple systems,
theChance of any one breaking down is more likely. Additionally, Dr. Stevens said, proper ventilation is particularly important in Martin
because it is necessary for the safety of chemistry experiments. Another problem that Martin currently suffers from is a lack
of laboratory space. Dr. Stevens states that Martin currently does not have sufficient laboratory space for the entire faculty to
conduct the research that is expected of them. The Chemistry Department has improvised by moving equipment and other objects around,
but there is still not enough lab space. Unfortunately for the Chemistry Department, it appears that the renovation and expansion
of Martin Chemistry Building will be put on hold because of difficult economic conditions.

When Martin Chemistry Building is renovated and expanded in the future, a number of challenges will have to be overcome.
Because the Chemistry Department needs laboratory space in order to continue conducting its courses, the existing part of Martin must
be functional while the expansion is occurring. Unlike classrooms, which could be moved to Chambers or another building, laboratories have
specialized equipment and features that cannot be recreated anywhere else on campus. According to Dr. Stevens, the need for sufficient
lab space could be met through building all new lab space in the expansion of Martin. The renovation of the
existing structure of Martin could not begin until the expansion was complete. Therefore, when the expanded part of Martin is
complete, labs could be held in that part while the original part of Martin is being renovated. This renovation, Dr.
Stevens explained, would be comprehensive. It would take Martin down to its floors and redo it entirely, creating a new
HVAC system.

Dr. Stevens and the rest of the Chemistry Department eagerly await the time when financial conditions will allow Davidson to
renovate Martin Chemistry Building. Dr. Stevens said, “It’s a hassle in the short term, but in the long term, it’s
fantastic.”

A series on HIV/AIDS in Jamaica even used the talents of Kwame Dawes, poet-in-residence at the University of South Carolina.
Past projects have appeared in some capacity in The Washington Post, The New York Times, The Newshour with Jim Lehrer,
public radio in Boston, National Public Radio, YouTube.com, The Virginia Quarterly Review, C-SPAN, interactive web portals, and lecture venues across
the country. Remarkably, this list is far from exhaustive.

The Pulitzer Center also has an extensive educational outreach program that is growing rapidly, bringing journalists and their work into
the learning environments of middle schools, high schools, colleges, and universities nationwide. In one instance, a group of American school
kids even had an online conversation about water availability with a class from Nairobi’s worst slum. That interactive experience was
part of the “Water Wars” series, about the politics of water or the lack thereof in Africa. Ultimately, Sawyer says
the Center seeks to achieve “better coverage of [global] issues, [and] to engage the broad public in these issues. The
journalism is just a means to that end.”

Sawyer became the founding director of the Pulitzer Center in 2006, after a distinguished 31-year career in print journalism, spent
entirely with the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. “It took me a long time to get my second job,” Sawyer joked. While
at the Post-Dispatch, Sawyer reported from five-dozen countries. In the last ten years, he has made extensive special reports from
the Middle East and Africa. He is the recipient of a myriad of prestigious journalism awards for foreign and investigative
reporting.

CORRECTIONS

Basketball Streak Misstated

The Jan. 28 article “Cats continue home, SoCon dominance” incorrectly stated that the men’s basketball team held the nation’s longest
active home win-streak. In fact, Davidson currently holds the third-longest active streak at 27 games, after Kansas (36) and Utah
State (29). The Davidsonian pledges to rectify any errors in reporting through printed corrections. Please contact us at davidsonian@davidson.edu if
you identify any such errors.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009

When asked if he saw any end in the foreseeable future for this market downturn, Adams was unsure. He said
that the general lack of credit has prevented companies from growing, but that unfortunately for job seekers, jobs come from
corporate growth. That networking becomes an incredibly valuable part of the job search process, according to the Parents Newsletter. Some
companies are turning their summer internship programs into their full-time job search. Peace Corps. Life is calling. How far will
you go? 800.424.8580 www.peacecorps.gov
