4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 2009

EAC shows ‘WALL-E’ for lights-off Earth Hour

KELSEY LILLEY, News Editor

Last Saturday at 8:30 p.m., the Environmental Action Committee (EAC) and Residence Life Office (RLO) sponsored a showing of the
film “WALL-E” in order to promote Earth Hour, an hour in which individuals across the globe turn off lights and
appliances in order to promote environmental consciousness and give the earth “a break.”

“It’s actually quite amazing the effect Earth Hour has if a large enough group of people participate,” Ian Mangum ’11,
member and former Publicity Chair of the EAC, said.

According to Earth Hour’s official website www.earthhour.org, Earth Hour was first practiced in Sydney, Australia in 2007. In one hour,
2.2 million people turned off their lights. That number grew to 50 million in 2008, and as earthhour.org noted, “Global
landmarks such as the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco, Rome’s Colosseum, the Sydney Opera House and the Coca Cola
billboard in Times Square all stood in darkness.”

Earth Hour is sponsored by the World Wildlife Foundation, who symbolizes turning off lights as a “vote” for climate change;
leaving them on, however, is a “vote” for global warming. After the immense success of Earth Hour 2008, the WWF
set a target of 1 billion “votes” across the globe for 2009, calling it “the world’s first global election.” The
numbers are not in yet, but an estimate by eweek.com clocked over 1,000 cities participating in the hour. Once proper
numbers on participation are in, the WWF notes on the Earth Hour website that they will be “presented to world
leaders at the [United Nations] Global Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen 2009.” At the conference, which begins Dec. 7 of
this year, officials will be determining new environmental policies to combat global warming, which will be the last global meeting
before the Kyoto Protocol runs out and must be renewed in 2012.

At Davidson, Mangum said that the EAC hoped to get people to turn off their lights and then leave their
rooms, increasing the amount of time that lights are turned off. “WALL-E” was intended to give people something to do
after turning off their lights. “[‘WALL-E’] was an excellent movie choice due to its meaning and the entertainment it provided,”
Mangum said, especially noting the appropriate environmental theme.

FRANCISCO FIALLO, Staff Writer

Internal changes and reforms led the Student Government Association’s (SGA) agenda during its meeting last Thursday, as its members looked
to implement some of the ideas developed during the retreat it held on Mar. 22. The SGA was also able
to act on some of the remaining issues of former Student Body President Greene ’09’s agenda.

Early on, the SGA voted unanimously to approve a set of reforms to the charter and charter renewal process for
student organizations. The reforms would divide student organizations into four tiers, each with budget allowances set by the Activities Tax
Council. The categories would also determine access to college resources—such as the privilege of reserving rooms in campus buildings and
the opportunity to operate a table at the student activities fair. In addition, the changes would also give the highest
tier of organization—a category limited to The Davidsonian, the Union Board and the SGA—flexibility in providing stipends to some of
its members. Previously, salaried positions were limited to a few positions, with no means of altering their payroll. Now, organizations
are free to add stipends, subject to ATC approval and the constraint that total student compensation equal no more than
five percent of the total student activities budget.

The SGA currently pays stipends of $800 and $200 per year to its chancellor and treasurer, respectively. Those stipends are
justified by the claim that the positions require more time spent on unglamorous tasks, and that those tasks would go
unfulfilled unless those students received compensation. With this flexibility, the SGA can move forward on another part of this year’s
agenda: making the appointed position of publicity officer a paid one. The officer is responsible for communicating the SGA’s activities
to the student body, and will be tasked with implementing and maintaining an SGA website with a blog and podcasts
of SGA meetings. Student Body President Meikaela Zwieryznski ’10 hoped to add a stipend to the position, which was created
at the beginning of the academic year. The position is currently unfilled. Zwieryznski and Vice President Baker Shogry ’10 are
also considering giving the officer authority over a committee, with the intention of having them staff out more menial tasks.

During the discussion over adding the salary—which has been initially set at $600—some students felt that the roles and responsibilities
of the office should be made explicit and that potential appointees should demonstrate the skills necessary for the position.

On other issues, the SGA considered granting Cats Connect its request for a non-voting representative in the SGA. Cats Connect
is a program which seeks to pair upperclassmen with groups of first-year students in an effort to ease their transition
into college life. The measure was met with some initial reluctance, as weekly SGA meetings are open to the public.and
the addition of a non-voting member would be nothing more than a formality. Shogry also voiced the concern that SGA
was not in the role of legitimizing other student organizations and that granting this request would be seen as an
endorsement of the program. However, Zwieryznski replied that Cats Connect had official support from the President’s office and that its
contact and dialogue with first-year students could be a valuable source of input and feedback that would not normally reach
the SGA.

Before ending, the treasurer mentioned that $5,300 of the SGA’s budget from the previous administration remained unspent, and the SGA
was encouraged to come up with ideas on how the money might be spent. However, there is no requirement that
the budget be spent—any remaining balances for student organizations roll over in the Student Activities Budget that funds all student
organizations. The salary and Cats Connect issues will likely be put to a vote at next Thursday’s meeting.

Last Saturday, the Environmental Action Committee and RLO sponsored a showing of the film “WALL-E,” intended to augment “Earth Hour”
efforts, in which students and citizens all over the globe turned off their lights for an hour to call for
action on climate change. Mangum said that the bike was originally created for the Eco-House two years ago, but is
now property of Davidson Outdoors. Though the EAC planned on showing the movie on Belk Lawn, rainy conditions moved it
to the Sprinkle Room. “If all the people that came to see the movie turned off their lights, I would
say the event was fairly successful,” Mangum said. “People had a great time and the message was felt.”

In addition to asking students and faculty to turn off lights and appliances for an hour, the EAC powered the
showing of “WALL-E” not with electricity, but with a bike. Assistant Director for Operations Tim Stroud rode the bike to
generate energy to power the showing of “WALL-E.”

3/24/09 00:36
The officer was contacted in reference to a subject begging for money at the Student Union. Officers approached and he
gave his name and advised that he lived in Cornelius. When asked for his ID he said that he did
not have it with him, but that he was a student. The officer asked him again about being a student
and he stated that he was not a student but that he knows an individual who is a student. Upon
further investigation, the referenced individual is not a student either. The subject was then placed in handcuffs and transported to
the Campus Police office for further questioning. The subject advised that his mother had run out of gas and he
was trying to get money for her. The subject changed his story again and stated that his mom had dropped
him off so he could help another woman with her car. He was then trespassed from the college and the
officer transported him to his residence in Cornelius.

3/26/09 20:55
The officer observed an unattended dog (brown Lab) near Tomlinson Residence Hall. A tag on the dog's collar identified the
dog as Lacey Ford. After talking with the dog's owner, the officer returned the dog to Hobb Street in Davidson.

3/27/09 16:00
A Davidson student walked into the Campus Police office and reported that a hook rug was missing from outside of
her dorm room in Belk. The student stated that she last saw the rug on Friday, March 20 at 22:00
hrs and she discovered it missing at 10:00 hrs on Saturday, March 21. The hook rug was white in color
with a red Davidson Wildcat outlined in black, handmade. The student has checked around asking if anybody has seen it
to no avail.

3/27/09 19:12
Officer responded to a call of a suspicious person near Patterson Ct. The caller advised of an elderly female wearing
a knitted hat standing outside of KA. Reporting officer, assisted by Officer Combs, spoke to the subject who advised she
was with the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. She also advised she was waiting for her fellow church mates that were
inside Vail Commons. Reporting officers verified the information.

3/28/09 00:41
Officer Heinz, while on routine patrol in the Upper Satellite parking lot, observed a suspicious vehicle. Reporting officer observed the
vehicle parked alone at the far north end of the parking lot. Reporting officer did not recognize the vehicle, nor
did the vehicle display any Davidson College insignia. Reporting officer spoke with the juvenile female driver and a juvenile male
passenger who advised they were just talking. Reporting officer informed the two juveniles on Davidson College policies and advised them
to find a better place to have a conversation.

3/28/09 22:47
Officer conducted a zone check on N Main St. The officer observed a broken chair at the WDAV building. The
chair was the large chair that was located on the outside porch. The chair had been knocked over by an
unknown person, animal, or possibly high wind. The chair sustained damage to the rocker leg and upper chair backing. The
officer has no reason to believe that the damage happened intentionally.
