THE PLEASURABLE ISSUE
Wednesday, March 25, 2009

AN EVENING OF CHAMBER MUSIC: NOT IN CHAMBERS
SEE PAGE 2

DISNEYLAND, THEME PARKS RAISING PRICES TO MATCH EXTORTION LEVEL OF UNION CAFE
SEE PAGE 10

DAVIDSON HOSTS SPECIAL OLYMPICS, OBAMA NOT INVITED
SEE PAGE 2

Bru-TAnG CLAN: AIN’T NOTHIN TO F--K WITH
SEE PAGE

Protect YA NEcK OF THE WEEK
SEARCH: *“*Binc Bonc Bros’’

Your Davidson Honor
Section Editors: Alex Greening, Tim Allen
Writers: Peter Bruton, Brett Chikowski, Amanda Ottaway

Note: The Yow is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth: Word.

Connor’s “Skin Cancer Awareness” Campaign Sizzles

Chambers — To raise awareness among college students for melanoma and other deadly forms of skin cancer, Connor House has
decided to sponsor a “Lay Out for Life” movement. Members of Connor, since the beginning of March — and several
times during February — have spread towels, blankets, and quilts across Chambers Lawn at a number of different stations. These
girls, clad only in bikinis and sunglasses, naturally attract an abundance of attention from students heading to and from class.

A pair of Connor girls speak with a professor about the merits of sunscreen, the hazards of ozone-layer depletion, and
how hot the new cashier at CVS is.

“Davidson College’s male population has recently jumped aboard the skin cancer-awareness train with unbounded enthusiasm...”

Signs that say things like “If I Collect $300, I’m Allowed To Go Back Into My Dorm And Avoid The
Sun’s Damaging Ultraviolet Rays” and “Save Me From the Sun — Donations Welcome!” are posted next to the towels. The
fundraisers’ indignant fellow females, bundled in hoodies and jeans, simply scoff and point to the nearest thermometer, but Davidson College’s
male population has recently jumped aboard the skin-cancer-awareness train with unbounded enthusiasm.

“I think it’s great that these girls are making this sacrifice,” said Kappa Sig junior Keith Lytle. “It takes a
lot of guts to expose your skin to ultraviolet rays.” Lytle said he personally donated $50 to one Connor girl’s
cause — but blushingly admits that he added a generous tip in the hope that “when she makes it inside,
she comes to my room.”

Want to make $10 the easy way?

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER
March 25, 2009

Injured Mathlete Uses Golf Cart for Cross-Campus Transport

Davidson — After an intense three-day math competition at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Davidson student Brett Mitchell ’10 suffered a devastating
injury. Mitchell was innocently eating a cheeseburger at a diner when a fellow, jealous competitor shoved him into a table.
Mitchell felt something hit his funny bone.

“...the College has recently taken a more liberal approach in approving the use of golf carts.”

“I was masticating my meal, minding my own business and then everything went black. I can’t remember the next 72
hours. I am not sure if the bone is completely shattered but our coach says it is one of the
worst injuries he has seen on the circuit. It is by far the most painful thing I have ever experienced,”
said Mitchell.

Mitchell has been called the Stephen Curry of trigonometry. He consistently dazzled the competition with his use of sine and
cosine until the injury. When he returned to campus...The funny bone injury was so bad he could not even walk
from the library to the Union for his 10:15 black bean quesadilla. Fortunately, he was able to rent a golf
cart from the college. While golf carts are usually traditionally reserved for serious injuries and longstanding medical conditions, the College
has recently taken a more liberal approach in approving the use of golf carts. Alex Madison ’09 had a horrific
hangover after a late night at the Brickhouse last semester. One of Madison’s friends got permission for him to use
a golf cart and Madison safely made it to Commons the next morning. When Madison had made a full recovery,
he realized that life in a golf cart was much more convenient than the pedestrian life he had previously experienced.

More effective than CPR? Golf carts have been linked to dozens of miraculous recoveries. One unlucky fellow, Brad Lithgow ’11,
had the unfortunate combination of getting a bad haircut and a toothache in the same week! The only remedy was
a golf cart. This writer hopes the trend of golf cart use will continue for the rest of the academic
year.

“Octo-Mom” Confusion Revealed

An illustration of the misinterpreted “Octo-Mom” Birkdale—Jeff’s Comic Lair, a well-established comic book shop and licensed Dungeons and Dragons retailer,
was the site of a controversy late Wednesday as the “bubble of secrecy” broke around Nadya Suleman, the mother and
sole parent of 14 young children. “It’s unbelievable!” Huntersville resident Jerome Clark exclaimed. “You mean she doesn’t have special regenerative
capabilities or anything?” Clark, a self-professed gamer with a penchant for anime, is part of a sizable minority of poorly-informed
Americans who misinterpreted the tabloids’ coverage of the “Octo-Mom.” “Naturally we thought this was something bizarre and spectacular. When we
learned that her only claim to fame was pumping out test tube babies, we were pretty disappointed,” Clark explained. “There’s
no evidence for biohazardous waste affecting the Octo-Mom, unless you count those collagen injections in her lips.” Clark and the
other dweebs were shocked to discover that Nadya Suleman is little more than an insecure woman with access to modern
medical equipment and unscrupulous doctors. “This explains a lot,” said Jeff Duffel, owner of Jeff’s Comic Lair. “For the longest
time I considered saying something. She’s an exact ripoff of Spiderman Vol. 64.”

AIG Executives Complain About Privacy Violations

Over $165 million has been funneled to AIG executives and their cronies, but many social crusaders and protesters are championing
an unusual cause. Michelle Shepard, a 24-year-old waitress at a bagel/coffee shop in Manhattan, is outraged. “Just who do these
federal and state investigators think they are? Those executives have every right to swindle and extort the working American, and
I’m not about to stand by idly while their own rights are violated.” Prying, intrusive queries about how money has
been spent have made many of these executives “uncomfortable.” They have been singled out unfairly for such banal purchases as
a fourth golf-course home, or collector’s items such as George Lucas’ complete flannel collection. Civil rights advocates have universally condemned
the trials, which are “just plain nosy.”
