THE COMPENSATING ISSUE

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009

DRUNK GIRL
WAITED FOR HER
QUESADILLA FOR
SERIOUSLY LIKE AN
HOUR, OMG

SEE PAGE 3

SOGGY BABY FOUND
IN UNION COMPOST BIN

SEE PAGE 4

BLOODY MARY
TAKES TOP HONORS
AT COMMONS

TASTE-FEST

SEE PAGE 5

LOCAL PERV TO
LEAD ALTERNATIVE
BREAK TRIP TO HIS
BASEMENT

SEE PAGE 8

THE YOWL

Your Davidson Honor Section

Editor:
Alex Greening

Writers:
Peter Bruton
Lauren Odomirok

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

Well the fun’s over and he’s gone to church

Kanye West, American Hero,

New York, New York—On Sunday night America witnessed a heroic act from rapper and entertainer Kanye West. At the MTV
Video Music Awards, Kanye West bravely removed a microphone, which he believed to be infected with swine flu and anthrax,
from teen music sensation Taylor Swift.

Mr. West heroically endangered his own well-being and successful career to keep the younger generation safe.

West had been backstage when the Best Female Video winner was announced. West, with his keen skills of observation (generally
directed towards fashion), saw a disgruntled and conniving Lady Gaga smear something from her/his infamous bulge on the microphone before
it was handed back to the master of ceremonies. When Swift accepted the microphone along with her award, West bravely
intervened.

“I knew something bad was going to happen if she accepted that award,” West explained on his blog. “It’s like
how I rap: I don’t think, it just happens. If anyone else was as rich or as perfect as me,
they would have done the same thing,” he added.

West did not want to create a state of panic because of the potentially infected microphone and dexterously thought up
a reason why he took the microphone.

“I’m one of the best freestylers ever! I just screamed something about Beyonce. It didn’t even make sense. The crowd
loved it.” West asserted that Ms. Beyonce Knowles had created one of the greatest music videos of all time. In
an off-the-record interview, Ms. Knowles confessed that she was “pretty turned on by how unapologetically rude [West] was on my
behalf.”

Cameras didn’t show Kanye quickly cleaning the microphone with anti-bacterial disinfectant before he handed it back to Swift. West notified
the event’s security shortly thereafter. Security escorted West out, to avoid any further incidents with the mischievous Lady Gaga. NYPD
officers were on hand to collect evidence and build the best possible case against Lady Gaga in court. After the
event concluded, Gaga was taken into custody.

“If anyone else was as rich or as perfect as me, they would have done the same thing.”

New York Governor David Patterson said “we owe this man an incredible debt. What he did was heroic and selfless.”

The media frenzy over the episode has done Kanye West well. His own plans of renaming every Monday “Kanyeday,” are
more likely to succeed. West has also received invitations to dozens of unrelated awards ceremonies.

“I’ll be hosting the Pulitzer Prize shit this year. Whatever.”

September 16, 2009

Student Prevents Popularity
Saves Teen Superstar’s Life with Terrible First Impression

Freshman Evan Estrada unwittingly committed social suicide on Monday afternoon. A panel of experts is convinced that an error as
great as his is already working against him to prevent any valuable friendships here at Davidson.

“I was excited to go down for burgers and dogs at Warner,” said Estrada. “A couple guys from the hall
came with me and we started talking to some of the freshmen girls. That’s when it happened.”

Estrada made a casual reference to a Hootie and the Blowfish song as an ice-breaker and it blew up in
his face.

“I don’t actually like the band!” he exclaimed. “It was a joke. My dad owns a record store. I’m not
some kind of dumbass!”

Estrada, an athletic and sociable young man from Gainesville, FL, normally enjoys meeting people. Estrada was vice president of the
student body at his high school and helped start a non-profit organization that promotes literacy, saves the whales, and breastfeeds
blind orphans.

His genuine and engaging personality and good sense of humor are apparently not enough to live down his faux-pas.

“Blackballed,” said one fraternity brother who overheard the comment.

“He’s an ugly pervert,” said a freshman girl.

“The inbred fool can’t even tie his shoelaces,” said Hansford Epes.

Estrada will do his best to overcome this enormous social obstacle, but the future looks grim.

Major Disappointment:
The Yowl’s Handy Guide

Major: English

Reasons why people choose this major: They already dress like they live in Greenwich Village; they have a deep fear
of the sciences; words just “speak” to them; they want to fit in at Summit; they think they can write.

Where they study abroad: Cambridge, England. End of story.

Career options: Publishing; news media; teaching; advertising; and if you’re really lucky, Career Services will hook you up with Wachovia!

Why people avoid this major: They still want to be able to associate with “the little people;” they are international
students.

Description: English majors are people who take pleasure in the art of human expression in written form. They typically enjoy
quoting verses of poetry to each other and creating snobby, intellectual jokes where none actually exists. As either a result
of their studies or the fact that they are naturally gifted, English majors often escape into abstract language when threatened
so that nobody knows what the hell they are talking about.
