THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2009

Faculty Art Exhibition opens in VAC

By Carey Leigh Evans
Staff Writer

Last Thursday, Davidson College Art Department opened their first show of the academic year. The annual Studio Art Faculty Exhibition,
held in the Van Every Gallery, features the work of Cort Savage, Rebekah Tolley, and Herb Jackson. At the opening,
professor Tolley, who joins the Art Department this year, held an artist talk in which she discussed her printmaking influences
and the evolution of the art.

One of Savage’s pieces, a sculpture that stands alone in the front room, combines the complexity of a human hand
with the simplistic shape of a ball. Each ball in the sculpture represents one of the 27 bones in the
human hand. In the work’s statement of purpose, Savage discusses two sorts of forms when hands touch. First, “inevitable form—any
form, when wrapped randomly, moves toward a common spherical shape by way of time, pressure, tension, and accumulated layers,” Savage
said. Also, “Phenomenological fissure” which “references the plane created by two objects pressed against each other; the ever-present divide between
two entities.” Because of Savage’s innovative design, the viewer focuses on the motion of the objects, rather than on their
appearance. The choice to use only brown and turquoise, save for the large gold ball in the center, adds to
the mobility of the piece.

In the next room, Tolley’s work initially feels small, almost misplaced in such a large room. Such an installation, however,
forces the viewer to closely inspect and appreciate each work—its detail and combination of mediums and images. Her piece Xerox
Work No. 5 shows a print of the artist’s hand with a scraping of tree bark. Tolley collected the bark
several years ago. A trip to China for a printmaking workshop heavily influences her recent work. She collected numerous types
of paper for her prints and adopted some Chinese artistic customs, like the stamp work seen in her piece, Snake
in a Bottle. Tolley’s piece Serpent’s Egg, from 2006, exemplifies the three-dimensional qualities printmaking can encompass. It enlarges and stretches
a serpent’s egg to magnify its detail.

Finally, in her most distinguishing work, Tolley takes printmaking to the next level. She uses light to make a print
onto a surface. When the prints were originally exhibited on a wall, Tolley realized the series of images seemed to
be animated. She desired to experiment with the idea of animation and now projects her prints onto structured ceramic forms
as seen in Fire Bowl (2006).

In the side room is Jackson’s show, titled “Herb Jackson: Come Up and See My Etchings.” In his charcoal drawings
of the human form, Jackson transforms the “outward symmetry” of the human body into something more abstract and expressive.

Festival offers tastes of food, diversity

By Land
Staff Writer

The pitter-patter of rain, thunder, and clatter did not stop over two hundred ‘Cats from attending Dean Rusk’s student-sponsored International
Festival this Friday afternoon in Duke Residence Hall. Following the success of last year’s Festival, The Dean Rusk Student Advisory
Committee (SAC) and international student organizations co-hosted a kick-off event that reinforced the importance of cultural diversity on campus. Also,
the event allowed freshmen to discover the school’s many cultural clubs. Representatives from the French Club, Curry Club, Just Peace,
Davidson International Association (DIA), Asian Culture and Awareness Association (ACAA), Organization of Latin American Students (OLAS), Global Zero, and the
Middle Eastern Cross-Cultural Association (MECCA) manned booths and offered a cornucopia of delicious delicacies.

“What is being presented here today was made possible through individual student effort in promoting international and cultural awareness,” said
Larissa Hohe ’08, this year’s Dean Rusk Fellow. “Issues such as these are best explored through enjoyable means, and this
is a great way to spread the importance of diversity on a campus that is home to students from all
over the world.”

Several members of the Dean Rusk SAC hail from different areas of the world. Mallika Kirti ‘12, newly-selected Dean Rusk
Communication Coordinator, believes the walls built up between different languages and customs can be eradicated through cultural awareness. “Even students
who cannot get the opportunity to go abroad can be a part of Davidson’s close-knit, cross-cultural awareness programs,” said Kirti.
“Having nice booths like these set up on campus shows that we [...] can be motivated to find beauty in
differences, whatever one’s race, gender, culture, or ethnicity.”

Along with the many representatives who welcomed students, Lauren Khater ’12 enjoyed sharing a slice of Middle Eastern culture by
helping MECCA prepare various food items. “At MECCA, we are all about having good music, food, and an overall great
time,” said Khater.“Feel-good experience,” Khater said. “The main goal of this event is to help spread the knowledge of important
issues that students may be hesitant to talk about. What better way to appreciate ‘dynamic asymmetry [...] with a gentle
twist’ as his artist’s statement describes.” Jackson’s work triumphs with remarkable precision. His boundaries are distinct despite the sketchy and
scrape-like qualities of his etchings. Initially, the subject matter may be jolting, but then the direct nudity becomes sensual, rather
than explicit, as the gentle positions of the forms add softness to the images. All proceeds from the sale of
Jackson’s work will benefit the Davidson College Art Galleries. This exhibition runs from August 27 until October 7, 2009, in
the William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery in the Katherine and Tom Belk Visual Arts Center. Contact Brad Thomas at
704.894.2519 with questions.

Rain eventually forced the festival indoors, but students did not let the weather ruin the good cuisine and energetic atmosphere.
“This hummus is just superb,” said Nikki Gutierrez ’10 while holding a plate filled with a colorful variety of food.
“The food is amazing and most of all, the company that we have today makes for such a pleasant experience.”
Christina Brown ’11, after getting a scoop of Nutella and pastries from the French Club, found the camaraderie of fellow
‘Cats just as agreeable. “Some students here just got back from abroad, and having them all back home along with
meeting new students is quite exciting.” The organizers, as well as the attendees, undoubtedly made the event a huge success.
“I finally was able to catch up with people I haven’t seen in a long while,” said Monique McIntosh ’10.
“This was an enlightening experience and was very enjoyable to take part in.”

The Dean Rusk International Studies Program believes that a knowledge of world affairs forms an integral part of a liberal
arts education. Dean Rusk also works with other programs to promote international awareness through education in the Charlotte area.

Live Thursday series
By Kelty Wilson
Staff Writer

On Thursday, September 3 at 10 p.m. in the 900 Room, junior Waylen Roche will be performing with his band.
Waylen’s musical style includes blues, rock and roll, and modern jazz. This week “we will be performing some jazz standards,
a few folk tunes, some original indie rock songs I’ve been working on, and a few indie covers,” said Roche.
Waylen started performing at age eight, when he wrote his first song (“I’m Not the King of Anything, and Nothing
Is the King of Me”). “I sang it for my parents and brother. About ten thousand times,” he said. “I
love sharing my passion for music and narrative song with everyone [and] anyone who cares to listen,” Waylen said. “I
am interested in performing for the rest of my life, maybe as a career, but one which would include composition,
music therapy, and world travel as well.”

Waylen has been performing for Live Thursday events since his freshman year. “He usually brings an eclectic group of students
to play highly improvised music with him,” said Paul Sayed ’10, the Union Board’s Student Performers Committee Chair. “The purpose
of Live Thursday is to provide a venue for students to perform music, dance, recite poetry, or act,” Sayed said.
“Different on-campus bands, solo performers, a capella groups, dance groups such as Shades of Brown, and comedy groups such as
Oops have performed.” Live Thursday performances, which are typically attended by 100-250 students, must be live and include only current
Davidson students. As long as these two conditions are met, performers have complete freedom as to what they do.

“I love sharing my passion for music and narrative song” - Waylen Roche, ’11

This year’s performances will be affected by one notable change. Beginning this fall, performers may choose to have up to
two short opening acts (15-20 minutes in length) for each event. “Historically on Live Thursday, one act would perform a
full set lasting typically an hour or more,” said Sayed. “However, student solo acts or new bands who only have
a few songs could feel discouraged from performing.” The new addition of opening acts to the program allows for the
promotion of more student performers each week, and it provides a venue for those who prefer showcasing their talents in
a shorter performance.

Live Thursday events take place every Thursday at 10 p.m. in the Union’s 900 Room. This weekly outlet for student
performers was initiated in the 2005-2006 school year by Russell Howard, who “wanted to provide a weekly venue for students
to perform in front of their peers,” Sayed said. Students who are interested in performing, organizing, or publicizing for Live
Thursday events should email Paul Sayed (pasayed). Check out the Union Board’s website for more information on upcoming events.
