2 THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2009

Students from Davidson, abroad sow Seeds of Peace

CAROLINE WOOD
News Editor

This Monday, Muna Al-Hadeed visited campus to discuss Seeds of Peace, a non-profit summer camp dedicated to establishing relationships and opening discussion between youth of war-torn nations. A current junior at Lehigh University, Al-Hadeed grew up in Amman, Jordan and first visited the United States in 2004 as a camper at Seeds of Peace near Portland, Maine. She returned to the camp as a participant in 2006, and again this summer, when she served as a counselor for a new generation of campers. In 2009 she met Kaela Frank ’11, who was also working at the camp and encouraged Al-Hadeed to visit Davidson.

Al-Hadeed explained that her family was heavily invested in the dynamics of the conflict and that she was well-versed in the rhetoric of the debate long before hearing about Seeds of Peace. Her mother grew up on the West Bank, which her family was forced to vacate when she was eight years old. “I didn’t know what to expect,” Al-Hadeed recalled, “other than that I had an image in my mind of an Israeli being a person in a uniform, holding a gun.” She explained that her family had known many people who had died and suffered as a result of the conflict, and that she called Israelis “the Enemy” growing up.

Seeds of Peace was founded in 1993 by John Wallach, editor of the Hearst newspaper, after he attended a dinner party where several international presidents and ambassadors were in attendance. Asked to give a toast, Wallach proposed the idea of an interactive project for the national youth of war-torn nations. His speech was met with dismissive laughter, but the next day, Wallach held a press conference confirming his intention of realizing the project. Although the founding committee did not have access to the necessary resources, they managed to pull their venture off, and 46 Israeli, Palestinian, and Egyptian students participated.

“Not every kid comes out of Seeds of Peace saying, ‘In ten years I just want to write a peace treaty and make the world a better place.’” - Muna Al-Hadeed

Jim’s career-long track record of achieving successful results for his clients has earned him recognition throughout NC and among his peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named to the Best Lawyers in America publication consistently for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina. As a former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the State for his commitment to justice and his exceptional litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience, he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people who have been injured by the negligent or wrongful conduct of others. Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A member of the Lions Club, Jim also serves on the boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

APPEALS • BANKRUPTCY • BUSINESS LAW • COLLECTIONS • ESTATE PLANNING

Jim Fuller and “Sandy” Carnegie
Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Homein the first Seeds of Peace camp in 1993. Today, the camp serves about 160 to 190 students per session, focusing on two major regions of conflict: the Middle East and South Asia. Participants, who range from 14 to 17 years old, travel to Maine from Israel, Palestine, Jordan, Egypt, India, Pakistan, and Afghanistan, and students from the United States participate in the camp as well. Students from every country are present at each session, but discussion groups and activities are divided so students from combating nations can have a focused, productive encounter with individuals they may have once considered their country’s “enemy.”

Al-Hadeed explained that the selection process differs by region: Israel is the strictest, sending candidates through administrative hoops in the Ministry of Education and other institutions. In India and Pakistan, students are drawn from pre-selected schools supported by the U.S. State Department. In Jordan, news about Seeds of Peace spreads by word of mouth, since the program is not well-regarded by many local individuals and institutions. Al-Hadeed recounted that she first heard about the program through family friends who suggested it to Al-Hadeed’s parents as an alternative to sending her to study in the U.S. for an entire year. She explained that the application process was rigorous and intense, including interview panels with six or seven interviewers grilling her on recent current events and political awareness.

In addition to academic and social inquiry, Seeds of Peace introduces campers to other activities, like sports, music, art, drama, and dance. “It’s a different way for them to interact with each other,” Al-Hadeed said. “Instead of vocalizing what they want to say, they can express their emotions through activities.” The core of the experience is daily two-hour “dialogue sessions,” where students share their own backgrounds and discuss the international conflict. Al-Hadeed recalls coming to her first dialogues prepared with documents supporting her arguments about the Israel-Palestine conflict. “It definitely gets heated,” Al-Hadeed said.

See Seeds, page 3

---

Attorney Prosser D. “Sandy” Carnegie has spent almost 30 years representing clients who have suffered substantial injuries due to another person’s negligence or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the law including contract preparation and review, residential and commercial closings, land development and acquisition, as well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia.

In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community. Sandy, a Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town of Davidson committees, is a member of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & A.M., and has coached youth football, basketball, and baseball in the Davidson, Cornelius, and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION + PERSONAL INJURY
REAL ESTATE
WILLS & TRUSTS

209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill)
Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-1699
www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

---

2009 campers participate in Seeds of Peace’s annual International dinner, when students dress in traditional attire and counselors prepare their national cuisine.

VISIT 14316 REESE BLVD, STE B OR CALL 1-888-827-5301 TODAY TO LEARN MORE

©2008, Paid for by the United States Army. All rights reserved.