4 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2009

Film challenges audience to consider Charlotte’s future

~ Katre Lovett
Staff Writer

Charlotte finds itself at a crossroads with a population that is rapidly growing more diverse. Crossroads Charlotte is an initiative that took root after a 2001 survey of 40 U.S. communities revealed that although Charlotte-Mecklenburg has high levels of faith-based involvement and philanthropic activity, the levels of social and interracial trust in the area are quite low. In 2000, 64% of Mecklenburg County’s population was white, and this percentage decreased to 60% by 2006. Studies predict that by 2015, whites will compose only a little over half of the county’s population. These changing demographics increase the need to focus on creating trust between people of different races and ethnicities in order to steer Charlotte towards a positive future.

Crossroads Charlotte, funded primarily by the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation, as well as the Wachovia Foundation and Foundation for the Carolinas, produced “Crossroads Charlotte: The Movie” in order to facilitate discussion of the issues of access, equity, inclusion, and trust and to create a community response. On Tuesday, Feb. 3, Davidson College provided one of the viewing locations for the world premiere of the “Crossroads Charlotte” film. The crowd, which consisted of a diverse group of primarily Davidson, Cornelius and Huntersville residents, gathered in the Lilly Gallery and was electronically linked with five other locations including the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, Johnson C. Smith University, the Charlotte Museum of History, Epicenter Theatres and the Ballantyne Village Theatre.

The program began with a welcome from Foundation for the Carolinas President and CEO Michael Marsicano, who emphasized that “now is the time for us all to create the tomorrow that we want.” Set in the year 2015, the “Crossroads Charlotte” film consists of four stories: “Fortress Charlotte,” “Class Act,” “The Beat Goes On” and “Eye to Eye.” These stories present four possible scenarios for the future of the Charlotte community.

“Fortress Charlotte” depicts a Charlotte suffering immensely from a faltering economy, with a chasm widening between the “haves” and the “have-less.” This segment of the film includes a drive-by shooting that is a result of conflict between different ethnic groups, a widening gap between public and private school test scores, and an unemployment rate that has reached an all-time high. By far the bleakest of the four stories, “Fortress Charlotte” outlines the consequences of a divided community and the ramifications of this interracial distrust.

At the opposite end of the spectrum, “Class Act” portrays a community enjoying a thriving economy, an abundance of jobs, a soaring housing market and booming tourist attractions. This portion of the movie emphasizes that Charlotte’s success has stemmed from the positive influence of a new, diverse group of people outside of the traditional white corporate powerbase. Although the old patterns of racial, ethnic, and social divisions retain a small role, the public school test scores have risen substantially, and Charlotte is ranked as a Top Ten city. Characters in this segment of the film quote Gandhi’s “be the change you wish to see in the world” and encourage one another to see the world through others’ eyes.

“The Beat Goes On” shows a Charlotte that appears to be thriving with its abundance of professional sports, banks, museums and theatres. Simmering under the surface, however, is growing anger, resentment and distrust among people of different racial and ethnic backgrounds and between those of different economic standings. Featuring a juxtaposition of the situations of a prosperous upper-middle class white mother and son and a homeless African American mother and son struggling to make ends meet, this segment of the movie highlights the fact that race relations continue to walk on uneven ground. The privileged people who have always had the power and made the decisions continue to exert influence and authority over people of color and residents with modest and low incomes.

The final possible future for Charlotte presented in the film, “Eye to Eye,” constructs a city that is booming due to a vigorous economy and an influx of talented and diverse people. With a decreasing crime rate and the possibility of hosting the 2004 Olympics, Charlotte has a reputation for being an open, tolerant, and trusting community that welcomes diversity. In this Charlotte of the future, diversity is the rule, not the exception.

Crossroads Charlotte seeks to promote community involvement and awareness of the changing demographics in Charlotte-Mecklenburg. Over forty organizations, including AT&T, Bank of America, The Charlotte Observer, Catawba Lands Conservancy, and YMCA are involved in promoting the organization’s ideals. The four “Crossroads Charlotte” stories seek to answer the question, “What course will Charlotte-Mecklenburg chart for all its residents over the next 10 years as we deal with issues of access, equity, inclusion and trust in the social, political, economic and cultural life of the community?” The organization emphasizes that from this crossroads, the choices we make and actions we take today will create our tomorrow.

Woodenfish encourages students to find their zen

Mike Anderson
Staff Writer

Two Davidson students travelled to southern Taiwan last summer to participate in a program focusing on Buddhism and Chinese culture. The Woodenfish Program takes place over the course of one month in the Fo Guang Shan Monastery outside the southernTaiwanese city of Kaohsiung. The program pays for the cost of room and board, with program participants responsible for covering travel costs. This coming summer, the program will run from Jun. 16—Jul. 15. Applications are due March 23. Although the program is recommended for students studying Buddhism, non-religion majors are encouraged to apply. According to former program participant Kelly Beggs ’09, the program organizers “want Western students to be exposed to their lifestyle so they understand it.”

This particular monastery is not typical of Buddhist organizations. Rather, Fo Guan Shan is one of the few Buddhist groups engaged in a more socially involved approach to teaching the religion. According to Assistant Professor of Religion Hun Lye, “Fo Guan Shan is a very innovative organization in that it’s one of the first Buddhist organizations that has made an impact beyond the local area.” Lye, who has advised the group’s organizer on Woodenfish’s development and recruiting, said that the monastery’s way of teaching is very different from that of traditional monasteries. Fo Guan Shan is much more engaged in contemporary life in the surrounding area of Taiwan. Still, despite the monastery’s progressiveness, Western students often find life at Fo Guan Shan radically different from what they’re accustomed to. The program may challenge the students, but, according to Beggs, the different discipline was used to “keep yourself always aware of what you are doing and to avoid the auto-pilot experience.”

During the weeks spent at the monastery, Beggs and Bennett Smith ’09 lived a very disciplined lifestyle, which consisted of wearing a uniform, waking up at 5:30 a.m. to the sound of bangs on a wooden board, silent meals, Buddhism classes, and community service for the monastery. Classes were run very differently from typical Western classes. At the beginning of class, when the professor entered the room, students would stand, bow, and show a sign of respect. Learning was based on repetition rather than class discussion, and students were strongly discouraged from questioning the teacher. For meals, the way students would eat was based on certain rules. That kind of routine may sound constricting, but Smith called it a different kind of freedom. “You have freedom of discipline—having to order your life. Individual autonomy is gone, but you learn the lessons of Buddhism,” he said.

Silence was often the most challenging part of the program for most participants, especially during a one-week retreat in which no one could speak and students meditated for five hours a day. Two non-Davidson students left the program because it was too difficult. “It’s very challenging for sure, but you learn that some of the things you say are unnecessary or negative. You learn what you need to say. It’s really rewarding in that especially in Western culture we live in a very noise-driven society,” Beggs said.

---

Show, from page

Show’s sudden increase in funding within the past year. The show received approximately $30,000 for renovation of studio facilities and the purchase of additional technical equipment. Once this information was made public, many students began to question how necessary this funding was and, more specifically, where it was coming from. “I’d really hate for people to think that we’re getting $30,000 just to make fart jokes,” the show’s executive producer and founder Austin Bell ’10 said. “We’re creating an institution that brings the community together.”

Officially, the ATC allocated $23,000 for the Davidson Show and the remainder of the $30,000 came from President Ross. Of the amount received from ATC, approximately $4,000 was used for facility renovation and equipment. “The space is pretty rockin’,” Bell said. “It’s basically the difference between a few kids shooting stuff in their dorm rooms and a TV show.”

While Smith said that it was certainly extremely difficult, he never thought about quitting. “It demands more concentration than I had ever done. At the end, you realize you’ve been through something,” he said.

In addition, the studio functions as a safe home for the show’s new equipment. The crew has yet to decide on a name for their new studio, but is flirting with the name “Catcave.” “We’re definitely evolving into a more sustainable and entertaining production, which I think is a really positive thing for the college community as a whole,” Bell said. “If you had asked anyone a year and a half ago if we had a student video production company on campus, they probably would have laughed at you.”

No one is laughing now, as the 10:00 p.m. Monday night Davidson Show premieres, often accompanied by free Chick-fil-A in the 900 Room, have become a staple in the routines of students from all ends of the spectrum.

The Davidson Show crew plans to hold an open house for all parties interested in seeing the new studio and will announce additional information in the Crier or on the show. Additionally, Bell said, “I think everyone’s pretty pumped about season three because of the new space, equipment, and cast we have,” but insisted, “we’re always looking for new talent, ideas, or just suggestions for the show.”