2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Kara JONES
Staff Writer

Decision Davidson, an event intended to allow admitted prospective students to have a close encounter with Davidson and many of its aspects, took place on campus this past Saturday. 848 students were offered admission into the Class of 2013, and the majority are still deciding between their options. Prospective students who received scholarships, or are still competing for awards, were invited to campus on Thursday and Friday. Saturday was a full day of events geared towards students learning more about the people on campus and opportunities that Davidson has to offer.

This year’s Decision Davidson did not change much by way of program, as the school annually seeks to present a general overview of the different aspects of being a student. The day began with campus tours, and an introduction by President Ross ’72, SGA president Meikaela Zwieryznski ’10, and Dean Gruber, Vice President of Admissions and Financial Aid. Afterwards, prospective students had the choice to attend lectures by Dr. Gail Gibson of the English department on ninth and tenth-century “riddle poems,” Dr. Fuji Lozada in Anthropology on the changing nature of politics, and Dr. Julio Ramirez in Psychology on the brain’s ability to function after an injury. The students also had opportunities to meet with professors of different departments, enjoy a delicious lunch on the Chambers lawn while being serenaded by the Generals, and explore student organizations at an activities fair. This year over 80 organizations involved themselves in the program, up from last year’s 60.

One of the other special opportunities that Decision Davidson provides for prospective students is a panel for students independent of their parents so that they can hear from Davidson students by themselves and feel comfortable asking any sort of question. In the introduction, they are encouraged to walk around in their free time and get to know who Davidson students are by asking them anything, for instance, help with something, or what they think of the dining services, or if they think professors are really accessible. Davidson has great confidence in itself, in the place and in the people, as everyone has been carefully selected and has also made a conscientious decision to be here. Together with the organized group sessions, they get a very real picture of Davidson and learn how to see themselves as a student here. Since this is a program for admitted students, the college seeks to have them understand that their message is still the same.

4/13/09 01:27 Fire News
Chambers

An officer was dispatched to Chambers in reference to a fire alarm. The alarm had been set off in the mechanical room in the basement. Upon checking that area, there was a strong odor of marijuana coming from inside the room. There were also several beer cans located inside along with a firecracker. The officer was informed by one of the firemen that the students remove the foundation vent and crawl inside. The officer located the vent and it had been removed from the wall. The officer replaced the vent and will send the Physical Plant an e-mail to get that fixed. Davidson fire reset the alarm.

4/16/09 16:40 Vehicle Accident
Patterson Ct.It is true to what it says it is in pamphlets and brochures. These students have been admitted intentionally, and in this critical time, they are weighing their college decision between a number of excellent institutions to which they have been admitted. “Now what we want them to do is pull back that curtain and find what it is about this place that will allow them to achieve the greatest opportunity,” Dean Gruber said. In their admissions process, these students tried to make themselves wanted by Davidson. Now that Davidson wants them, they are taking a step back to survey Davidson alongside their other options. “We have made the marriage proposal, and now we are waiting to see if it has been accepted or not,” Gruber said. “This is an opportunity to put ourselves in front of them and let them enter the world of Davidson.”

Change a issue is the de oro AS Officer was advised of a vehicle accident with property damage that occurred near the Outpost, 120 Patterson Ct Cir. Reporting officer spoke with a Davidson College employee who advised around 14:30 he was driving a Davidson College-owned golf cart and attempted to make a right-hand turn onto a sidewalk just past the Outpost. As he was turning, a silver Volvo tried to pass him on the right side of the road. The employee advised he spoke with the female driver; neither vehicle had any visible damage, so both drivers decided to leave the scene. The employee stated that later that afternoon he noticed that the golf cart was not steering properly. The reporting officer inspected the golf cart, and it appears that the right front tire is now turned inwards.

4/17/09 23:55 Disturbance Library Officer received a phone call in reference to people running inside Little Library. Upon arrival at the library, the officer was met by another officer. Both officers canvassed the library, finding a large group of Davidson College students on the second floor. All students were escorted to the main floor. Upon getting the students grouped together downstairs, the officer was able to find out that the students were playing a game called Mafia, which was described as a live-action game of Clue. The officer was advised that someone stayed inside the library until the employees left and allowed the other students to enter after hours. All students were cooperative when confronted by the officers.

4/16/09 15:39 Suspicious Person WDAV Officer was advised of a suspicious person near WDAV Radio Station, 423 N Main St. Upon arrival, the reporting officer searched the area but was unable to locate the individual. The suspect was described as a man in his mid-sixties to early seventies with a scruffy face, wearing a green jacket and green hat. The man walked into the WDAV Radio Station and asked to speak with a Davidson College employee. He advised he was a donor to Davidson College and was just visiting. A Davidson College employee received a voice message just before this incident occurred on her campus phone from a man who advised his name. In the voice message, he left a contact number. He advised in conversation that he was from the Virginia area and now lives in the mountains of North Carolina. The officer contacted him on the above phone number and explained not to come around the campus or the WDAV Radio Station.