DAVIDSON COLLEGE: INSIDE THIS WEEK

RAVE ELEVEN-ELEVEN

KOREA EXPERTS TAKE ON ISSUES
Experts Peter Beck and Kevin Logan discuss recent policy and security changes in North Korea during last week’s panel
see NEWS, page 3

“PIRATES OF PENZANCE” SINGS
Davidson College’s Music Department puts on entertaining comical operetta this Friday and Saturday night
see ARTS, page 5

‘CATS SWIMMING AND DIVING SPLIT WEEKEND MEETS
Weekend meets against William and Mary and College of Charleston produce mixed results for Men’s and Women's Swimming and Diving
see SPORTS, page 10

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009

KELLY WILSON
Staff Writer

The entrance to the library has recently undergone a temporary change: A wall has been erected several feet from the front doors of the building. Construction of this wall and a graffiti contest, which took place Friday, marked the start of the event series “Freedom Without Walls,” hosted by the Department of German and Russian to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall.

“The fall of the Berlin Wall 20 years ago, on November 9, 1989, marked the beginning of a new era in history,” said Dr. Burkhard Henke, Professor of German and Chair of the German Department. “It was the end of the Cold War, the beginning of a fully united Europe and proof that peaceful change is possible, even in the moments when it seems most unlikely.

“The building of the wall represented a desperate attempt by the East German government to put a stop to the tremendous brain drain that plagued the new country,” Henke continued. “Almost ten percent of the population had fled the regime, many of them highly qualified individuals. On August 13, 1961, the government blocked all access to the western part of the city, itself an island in East German territory. In the next 28 years, several hundred people were killed by border guards as they tried to escape.”

Other events in the series include an ongoing exhibit and slideshow in the Library until Nov. 16, a screening of the film “The Lives of Others” in Semans Lecture Hall in the VAC on Nov. 5, and a celebration on Nov. 9, entitled “Tear down this wall!” At this event, the wall outside the library will be struck down. “We’ll have sledgehammers and a chainsaw to bring it down,” Henke said. “There’ll be bratwurst and sauerkraut and hot cider.”

A week later, on Nov. 16, Dr. Lutz Goergens, Consul General of the Federal Republic of Germany, will speak at the Carolina Inn. “He will talk about the Wall and the divisions it signified,” Henke said. Goergens has been the German Consul General in Atlanta since 2007. “Before that, he served in the German Federal government as head of the EU Internal Market Affairs section, and held diplomatic posts in Ankara, Mexico City, Tunis and Algiers,” Henke said.

“He was German Foreign Service desk officer for the Maghreb and Arabian Peninsula states and was political counselor to the Organization of American States for the German embassy in Washington. He was trained in German literary history as a medievalist (PhD Tübingen) before entering the Foreign Service.”

Several seniors helped organize the event series, including German Major Moriah Wood ’10, who is responsible for the exhibit in the library. “The Graffiti contest featured mostly German 101 students, some seniors and international students,” Henke said.said, also encouraging all Davidson students, regardless of major, to attend the events. “The screening of ‘The Lives of Others’ is for students, and we won’t be able to tear down the thing without their help. Students are also the primary audience for Goergens’ visit.”

photo by Bill Gid

“Freedom Without Walls” series, was sponsored by the Departments of German and Russian.

‘Master Plan’ to act as framework for campus development

CRISTINA BUSTILLO
Staff Writer

Over the course of the past few days, Davidson students have been hearing a great deal about the Davidson Strategic Plan. Campus planning is a process, and one of the culminating events in this process is the creation of a Master Plan. This plan is a framework for future campus development. Davidson has been working with Shepley Bulfinch, a consulting and architectural planning firm that identified the changes the physical campus needs in order to support Davidson’s Strategic Plan. In order to do this, a Master Plan was created to show all of the changes that the physical campus will need in order to support the Strategic Plan.

“The Strategic Plan calls for hiring new faculty to increase interdisciplinary programs,” Shepley Bulfinch team leader Annie Newman said. “Hiring new faculty means that the College will need to have offices and research space available for them. There is also a need for enough classrooms to accommodate the new courses they will be teaching. Not all aspects of the Strategic Plan will have direct impacts on the physical campus, but many will.”

In addition to planning new buildings and workspaces, the Campus Master Plan also offers an opportunity for the current organization of campus to be revised and improved. The timeline of the Master Plan is 20 years, which gives enough time to revise, improve, and add to the current campus, but it also allows for enough flexibility to accommodate any challenges or opportunities that can’t be foreseen but that will inevitably occur.

In order for the Campus Master Plan to be as good as it can be, it needs to have input and feedback from all of the constituents of Davidson College, which include students, faculty, staff, alumni, etc. Since every one of these groups has a different experience regarding Davidson, any problem areas will be identified.

This coming Monday, the Shepley Bulfinch team that has been working on the Davidson Master Plan will be coming to the College to present the options that they have developed to address all the issues and needs that the campus has. They will be presenting the options in Commons, from 12:15 p.m. to 1:15 p.m., and in the Union from 1:45 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. They will then be moving to the Lilly Gallery to present the plan to faculty and staff. This allows all students, faculty, and staff to attend and identify what they like and what they don’t from the options that are provided. In addition to this, students and staff will also be able to present new ideas to the team for their consideration.

The team said that they hope to get as much feedback as possible because it is their goal to improve the physical campus without changing what Davidson feels like.

“While aspects of the master plan will not be complete, or even start, before many of you graduate, we want to be sure that when you come back for homecoming and other alumni events that you feel that Davidson is still Davidson (albeit improved),” Newman said. “We need your input to ensure that future.”