DAVIDSON COLLEGE ALUMNI NEWS

STELL CALLS FOR INTEGRITY IN HEALTH CARE INDUSTRY
Medical Humanities Professor Lance Stell spoke last Thursday on “Physicians’ Integrity and Ties to Industry” in the 900 Room. See
NEWS, page 4.

PUNCH BROTHERS
Punch Brothers to jump start Artist Series with concert next Wednesday. See ARTS, page 5.

WOMEN’S SOCCER BATTLES TO THE WIRE
'Cats drop close matches against Spiders, Hokies in VA road series. See SPORTS, page 10.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2009

Weinsteins give $2.2 million in honor of past president
KELLY WILSON
Staff Writer

Carole and Marcus Weinstein (pronounced “wine-stine”) recently donated $2.2 million to the College in honor of former President Sam Spencer
’40 and his wife Ava. The main lobby of Chambers will be named the Spencer Lobby, and Duke Residence Hall’s
non-residential section, currently known as The Dean Rusk International Studies Center, will be named The Weinstein Center. The Dean Rusk
staff offices will be known collectively as the Spencer Office Suite.

“This gift is an acknowledgment of the outstanding education that Davidson has provided for generations of students, and it is
also an investment in the college’s future,” Marcus Weinstein said. “In particular, I hope this gift will support Davidson’s ongoing
efforts to bring the college the most talented students from all backgrounds, so that bright people can engage with and
learn from a broad spectrum of their peers.”

The College has not yet decided what exactly the money will be used for. “Because these buildings already exist, this
gives us some flexibility with how we choose to use the money,” Director of Donor Relations Denise Howard said. “It
will be used to fund some college priority, and this will be the decision of President Ross. In this economy,
there are all sorts of different priorities we can identify.”

Spencer, who was Davidson’s president from 1968 to 1984, spearheaded conversations to establish the Dean Rusk International Studies Program and
helped reinforce the College’s emphasis on international studies. He also was known for his efforts to recruit underrepresented minorities and
international students. Under Spencer, Davidson was integrated and women were first admitted.

Spencer explained that he was not aware of the gift until “the day it was announced. This was a surprise
to me and my wife, but I thought it was wonderful that they would be so generous to Davidson.”

See Donation, page 2.

Students spend weekend serving
ALLIE COKER
Staff Writer

Once a month, the Community Service Office at Davidson College offers a service and reflection opportunity called Service Saturday. Students
are welcome to sign up online for any opportunity they wish—and the opportunities vary. Working with sites such as the
Second Harvest Food Bank, Urban Ministry Center, and Florence Crittenton Services, Service Saturdays aim to have a wide range of
service sites in order to appeal to everyone. The goal is for 10-12 students to gather with faculty and staff
at a local service site in order to help the community, while learning about non-profits at the same time. A
portion of the Saturday is also...Devoted to reflecting on service and their views concerning different social issues, Ashley Lyles ’10
led a Service Saturday this past weekend to Florence Crittenton Services, an organization that provides services such as medical care,
adoption and parenting support, and substance abuse intervention to single mothers and their babies. The group’s main service was to
clean and maintain the building these services are supported in, while learning more about the purpose of Florence Crittenton. The
organization’s mission statement is, according to their website, “providing single mothers and their babies comprehensive medical/prenatal care, social, educational, adoption
and parenting support services, as well as substance abuse intervention, treatment and prevention. Promoting health and hope for tomorrow’s children,
Florence Crittenton Services provides an opportunity for a healthy pregnancy, healthy baby, and positive life choices.” The agendas usually span
from 8:30 a.m. to around 2 p.m. so that students still have plenty of time to tend to homework and
other afternoon responsibilities. All students are eligible to participate. To learn more, go to the Community Service Office page on
the Davidson website and look under the Service Trips section. Or, you can email emmoser or striemer. To learn more
about Florence Crittenton, visit www.fcsn.com.

www.thedavidsonian.com
VOLUME 101, NUMBER 4

WALT: Returns
BRENNA KELLY
Staff Writer

Last Wednesday marked the first WALT broadcast of the 2009-2010 school year. This year, the student-run radio station, which has
been in operation since the 1980s, is in the hands of the “Holy Trinity,” that is, its three station managers:
Craig Cangemi ’10, Ryan Cockman ’10, and Laura Zulliger ’10. Cockman and Cangemi report that WALT, which broadcasts on radio
station 1610 AM on the Davidson campus, has shown an increase in student involvement since last year. They said that
there were many seniors who hosted shows who graduated in 2009, but fortunately, this has not hindered the participation of
other students. “We had more freshmen join this year,” Cockman said. Cangemi added that “the freshman class seems to be
really excited about it.” There are nearly 50 DJs this year, and around 30 shows. The shows on WALT are
mainly musical, though there are several sports talk shows as well. “It’s a diverse group,” Cangemi said. “Some play world
music, some play rap... we play metal.” (Cangemi and Cockman’s show is called “Blood Death, Etc.” and airs on Sundays
at 10 p.m.). Jessie Parker ’12, along with Rebecca Hawk ’12 and Hannah Wright ’12, has a show called the
“Family Hymnal Earth Thumping Sisters.” This show, which airs at 10 on Wednesday nights, plays “a pretty sweet and eclectic
playlist,” according to Parker, and loosely centers on the title’s theme. “We each have slightly different music tastes, but our
tastes complement each other well, and usually combine for a pretty hilarious night,” she said. “One of my favorite weeks
was themed ‘Nassty,’ and we played some good ol’ funk tunes with some blatant sexual innuendos and also threw in
some Spank Rock, Chaka Khan, James Brown, etc.” While WALT does broadcast via the radio, most listeners can access it
through the internet. “Two years ago we started live-streaming so people off-campus could listen to it,” Cockman said. The website,
www.

See WALT, page 4
