12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

CHINESE NEW YEAR DRAGON DETAINED ON NUMEROUS NOISE VIOLATION CHARGES SEE PAGE 8

UNION FIREPLACE ACCUSED OF PLAGIARIZING FROM REAL FIRES SEE PAGE 9

SCULPTURE GARDEN REVISITED: DO WE NEED MORE BOOGERS? SEE PAGE 5

LAUNDRY DRIED ONLY PARTIALLY, CURSING ENSUES SEE PAGE 10

DIVISION 1 ATHLETE TAKES ELEVATOR FROM 1ST TO 2ND FLOOR SEE PAGE 4

THE YOWL

Your Davidson Honor

Section Editors: Alex Greening, Gary Busey
Vestal Virgin: Dan Killian
Big Lebowski: Brett Chikowski

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

RISK MANAGEMENT EDITION

NAN U BI ORTA UBERTAS

Disappointing in fun new ways!

Nostradamus MC’s Apocalyptic Step Show

Duke Family Performance Hall — Sororities and fraternities from schools around the state sent groups of performers to Davidson’s campus
to participate in the third annual “Revelation of the Divine Greek Step Show.” In what has been called “an innocent
mix-up,” confusion about the host of the show left many in the audience scratching their heads. Many Davidson students were
excited to see Nasir Jones, better known by his stage name “Nastradamus” or simply “Nas,” but “the planets will align
and the sky will burn.” were greeted instead by a bearded, prophesying Frenchman. Nostradamus, born Michel de Nostredame in 16th-century
France, is a legendary seer, healer, and author. Nonetheless, he seemed out of place as he MC’d the step show.

“Homie was out of it,” audience member Monica Rodriguez noted. Nostradamus first argued to reschedule the show for Dec. 12,
2012, “when the planets align and the very sky will burn!” Rather than the “Illmatic” encore Nas was expected to
deliver, Nostradamus went on to praise the wonders of bloodletting as a plague/hangover remedy but was astonished that human waste
was found only in front of the senior apartments. Nostradamus was taken aback not only by plumbing, but by the
thousands of technological innovations that have become commonplace in our “Hell-fated kingdom.”

“Your magic music contraption is wondrous!” he exclaimed, examining an iPod. “It truly is regrettable that humanity has come so
far, only to be wiped away in a whirlwind of poisons and collapsing planets.” When asked what he thought about
the night’s performances, Nostradamus smiled and nodded his head. “These cats got a heavy step. Shit was tight.” Nostradamus closed
the performance with an impromptu freestyle rap. Though in some verses his meter and diction were outdated, many students regarded
his lyrics as the highlight of the night. A particular favorite was his closing verse:

“Seas will thunder
And pull the world under!
The paupers will perish as will the rich:
the Apocalypse gonna be a bitch.”

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

January 28, 2009

Republicans Concerned about Size of Obama’s Stimulus Package

WASHINGTON, D.C. -- With President Barack Obama whipping out his enormous stimulus package, currently valued at $825 billion, Republican critics
have raised their voices in protest. House minority leader John Boehner stiffened with objection during meetings earlier this week. “This
package is too big, too unwieldy, and reckless in general. I don’t see how we can really control the thrust
of it. I can barely wrap my head around the package we’re facing.”

“I can barely wrap my head around the package we’re facing.”

Other representatives in the Capitol shared similar sentiments. Senator Richard Little (R, Delaware) worried that the Obama package would create
a problem of overstimulation. “We really have to consider whether or not this is what the American people want. Are
they prepared to take a package of this size?” Critics of the package are worried that some of its measures
will inevitably stretch the common American far beyond his or her comfort levels. Another concern is the apparent lack of
protection to go along with a package.that will touch millions of Americans. President Obama plans to include specific information about
the package on a government-run website. The hope, said a senior advisor, is that “by putting this package on the
internet, which is already the number one package resource in the world, we should be able to increase stimulus interest,
awareness, and participation. The more people stimulated, the better.” Democrat Rod Johnson, one of the authors of the bill, asked
critics to be patient. Due in part to the package’s large size, he said, it could take as long as
two years for the package to reach full potency. Obama promises, “If we give the package the time and attention
it deserves, there should be enough to go around for everybody. I can only hope that this stimulating package doesn’t
shrink in a cold sea of partisan criticism.”

Middle-School Boys Protest Davidson-Charlotte Commuter Rail

Davidson — Scores of pubescent boys and concerned members of the community gathered Tuesday to protest the development of a
railway service between Mooresville and downtown Charlotte. Concerns about noise, cost, and overexpansion were listed, but the primary issue was
a sentimental one. “We risk losing access to an important part of the American tradition. If we give up these
train tracks, where do our youth mature?” American folklore has long romanticized little-used railways. The protesters fear that refurbishing and
frequent use of the Davidson line will prevent small bands of boys from rambling along, getting to know each other
better, and finally standing up to their bullying big brothers. “If we lose this treasure of folklore, how will the
youth of Charlotte-Mecklenburg County come to terms with the maturation of their bodies and minds? They need to be able
to enjoy a swimming hole and cook hot dogs on branches every once in a while,” 5th grade English teacher
Diane Aldridge said. The youngsters themselves were especially concerned. “I don’t see how else my friends and I can get
the true bildungsroman experience without those train tracks. Plus, I really want to carry around a handkerchief on a stick.”

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2009

Filmore Clemens commented Monday from his Charlotte, N.C., apartment. Clemens, an auto mechanic who lives on the seventh floor of
an apartment complex, has been trying to figure out if the “close door” button on his building elevator actually does
anything at all. “One afternoon I actually timed it on my stopwatch to see, but the problem is I don’t
think I pressed it just once, so I didn’t really know when to start the watch. See, I can never
press it just once. It usually takes about 5 pushes for it to have any actual effect. But of course,
that could just be when it would normally close. Ah shit, I don’t know anymore.”

“See, I can never push it just once?” He reported pressing the comfortably indented, moon-colored button all the way in
but stated that it is “generally confusing because the light never goes on.” While he mostly uses the close door
button to try and speed up getting to work, he also cited nervously pressing it when he hears his neighbors
coming down the hall to try to use the elevator. “If it’s 80% of the way closed, to the point
where they won’t risk the door-sensor-thing, I’m home free. Then I usually just say something like, ‘Oh, oh no, damn,
sorry sorry!’ as the door is shutting. Pretty standard.”

When questioned about why he didn’t have a problem with the “open door” button, he stated it was “utterly useless”
and for “philanthropists” and “hippies without schedules or any general purpose in life.”
