6 The Davidsonian

Ron Keas has painted several works that feature Barack Obama, including a family portrait. Obama artwork exploded after his nomination
this summer.

Obama, from page 5

An unusual manipulation of Obama’s facial features into a classic portrait of Abraham Lincoln, complete with beard and Lincoln’s signature
ears. Ron English created this Obama-Lincoln hybrid before Obama was elected. English is a self-declared “popagandist,” and likes to subvert
corporate and iconic images. Before the Obama piece, he made his name in transforming billboard advertisements into political statements. Along
with these earlier works, the Obama portrait was designed to encourage an open dialogue on topics many Americans choose to
ignore.

Finally, prominent California painter Ron Keas has completed several oil portraits of Obama posing alone, with other leaders, and with
his family. Like English, Keas chose to connect Obama with Lincoln in the first work of his series. Here, the
Commander-in-Chief stands with his arms folded in front of the Lincoln Memorial. A gold light illuminates the background, while a
young boy stands in a shadow while admiring the statue.

Art is sometimes viewed as elitist, especially when Klimt paintings auction for millions off at Christie’s. But one common thread
of all Obama artwork is approachability. These pieces seem to reflect a more egalitarian agenda, a change that may parallel
many of Obama’s favored policies.

Check us out at: 704-483-8981

ATTN AD/PR/MARKETING MAJORS

All Students - Part time work
Can make $8-$10/hour
Earnings can exceed $20,000 in a School Year
Flex hours (8-15/week)
Great Experience!
Fast-paced work
Must be energetic and creative
Send resume w/cover letter to bobh@ffadvertising.com

JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

We first meet Elizabeth Gilbert, somewhere in her mid-thirties, caught between the onslaught of a mid-life crisis and a foreboding
divorce settlement. And ironically, she has everything an educated, successful New York journalist should want, including a high-paying job, husband,
and well-kept home. In that order. However, instead of feeling fulfilled, Gilbert cycles through grief, pain, and confusion like a
champ, reaching an all-time low in the middle of the night on her bathroom floor. In a dejected heap of
self-pity and Kleenex, Gilbert makes one last-ditch effort to save herself, and does the personally unthinkable. She prays. To whom
or what, even she doesn’t know. Nor does she care. Apparently, people ask for God’s help when they are in
life-threatening despair, or so she feels. In this moment of tear-drenched desperation, Gilbert has her first encounter with a universal
“God,” and vows to quit her job to undertake a year-long journey.

Initially, I was hesitant to read “Eat, Pray, Love.” Very hesitant. I had seen the book in stores everywhere, admired
its contrite cover design, but questioned its application to my life. In a moment of consumer weakness, I bought it.
The next morning, I started Gilbert’s book bleary-eyed, miffed at subjecting myself to 108 chapters of someone else’s problems, as
well as the fact that I was now down 15 dollars. I finished the book a week later with a
total sense of accomplishment and introspection. This story is part travelogue, part confessional diary, and a wholly candid testament of
Gilbert’s quest to find personal and spiritual happiness. Leaving behind family and friends, she travels to Italy, India, and Indonesia
to “explore one aspect of myself set against the backdrop of each country,” she writes. “I wantedTo explore the art
of pleasure in Italy, the art of devotion in India, and, in Indonesia, the art of balancing the two.” Thankfully,
Gilbert begins her story at the beginning, instead of in medias res, which just about always confuses me. Her road
to personal discovery is incredibly readable because she’s incredibly human. Her subject is herself, and she is also the object
of her frequent satire. It is impossible not to be impressed (and relieved) by her willingness to admit failure. Over
and over again. Her prose is fueled by insight, intelligence, and wit, which she uses to take her quirky sense
of humor and knack for meeting downright weird people to an international stage.

One encounters a variety of superb work: from artists Sanderson, Nancy Fric as WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009. However, despite her
many moments of light-hearted jest, the greatest endeavor she undertakes is to heal herself from emotional torment, which also includes
a lingering, anguishing love affair with a younger man, David. At one particularly sad point in Italy, she claims that
her only friends are depression and loneliness, who flank and haunt her conscience. “They don’t need to show me their
badges. I know these guys very well,” she writes. And more than once she admits to toying with the idea
of suicide. Despite her fluctuating degrees of suffering, Gilbert refuses to continue wading through pools of self-pity. She often humors
her melancholy tone to maintain the interest of her readers, who cannot help but equate to some dark cloud or
another in their own lives. Particularly in Rome, Gilbert gives in to bouts of despair, which she fights off with
the best gnocchi and white bread Italy has to offer. Her longing for romance surfaces frequently in the presence of
an attractive native Italian, Giovanni, who is also, conveniently, Gilbert’s language partner.

After four months and gaining 23 of the happiest pounds of her life, Gilbert arrives in Mumbai, India. With the
help of a dodgy taxi driver, she makes her way to an Ashram, or Indian temple, to pursue the art
of spiritual devotion. Here, Gilbert faces the hardest obstacle of her life: herself. Between unnerving silence and minimal amounts of
food, she spends part of her day bitterly chanting Sanskrit prayers, fighting off recurring mental demons, and getting big-time slack
from Richard, a witty and ribald cowboy from Texas.

While finding balance in Bali, Gilbert meets a host of bizarre characters. She puts herself under the spiritual care of
a native medicine man, Ketut, who approximates his age to be somewhere between 65 and 105. Gilbert dapples in Balinese
traditions, including an austere, ritualistic healing and flat-out dirty gossip with a fellow native divorcée. And before she knows it,
Gilbert finds herself head over heels in love with Felipe, a Brazilian man more than twenty years older than herself.

Articulate, amusing, and thought-provoking, this memoir is anything but a lofty, existential commentary on philosophical transcendence. What makes “Eat, Pray,
Love” so appealing is Gilbert’s willingness to admit her own weakness and constantly search for something greater. Not to mention
she gives some pretty flavorful cultural commentary. Gilbert’s story is a testament to what can happen when you claim responsibility
for your own contentment and willingness to recognize that, sometimes, change is the best answer. And some ravioli never hurt.
