The place you call home says a lot about you. But “home” is more than a vacation spot during summer and Christmas. In fact, I’m from Mayberry. Mayberry, however, doesn’t exist; it’s the name of a fictional town from the 1950’s TV program “The Andy Griffith Show.” Mt. Airy, my town’s actual name and Mayberry’s real-life inspiration, is the basis of the idea of quintessential small-town America—a concept that today lives on exclusively in TVLand re-runs. But for those of you who aren’t couch potatoes or nostalgic for the days of Elvis and Marilyn Monroe, my point is that the idea of “home,” fictional or not, is a mindset that defines you. As The Davidsonian’s incoming Editor, I'd like to share a recently encountered new perspective on the community we all live in for the majority of the year.

This past summer was the first summer that I’ve spent in the town of Davidson. I bused tables at Restaurant X, I bought my fruits and vegetables at the Davidson Farmers’ Market on Saturday morning, and I went to each of the events in the Concert on the Green series with a picnic basket and a beach towel. After three years of attending Davidson College, I feel more at home here than in my hometown.

Editors-in-Chief
Brett Willis
Managing Editor
Katherine Miller
News Editors
Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood
Perspectives Editors
Bryan Norris & Clint Smith
Arts & Living Editor
Jennifer Gambrell
Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Nami Patel
Business & Circulation Managers
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright
Online Editor
Greg Newman
Assistant Copy Editor
Alex Kowaleski
Photography Staff
Bill King, Aaron Robinson & Laney Schenk

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Only the staff editorials represent the views of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Email Jordan Wall at jowall@davidson.edu for advertising inquiries.

Scott Matthews
Guest Columnist

The Chinese, with the effort of their massive government spending, have just ramped up their green initiatives, particularly in producing solar PV cells used to harness the sun’s energy and turn it into electricity. They are using adapted American technology and plants inside the United States to avoid the protectionist tariffs on foreign goods. At their increased rate, they will soon surpass the United States as a greener producer, particularly if they continue to apply pressure while the United States continues to pass only symbolic 2.3 billion dollar tax credits. This is scary stuff. If America does indeed fall behind China as it fell behind the Middle Eastern, energy-rich nations, it could well be the beginning of the end of the American way of life.

In his books “The World Is Flat” and “Hot, Flat, and Crowded,” New York Times economist Thomas L. Friedman convincingly argues that the next great round of prosperity for the United States will be the result of a national green revolution. This would be similar to the American creation, production, and exportation of automobiles and airplanes before other countries developed the technologies. Both common sense and Friedman say that such a national revolution would be large enough to cause a sustained period of prosperity for the United States. The only question is: why hasn’t Congress or President Obama gotten the ball rolling on multiple green fronts? The possible cost of not becoming the world leader in alternative clean energy could sink America. Currently, “green-tech” contains the economic power to lift the country that spearheads it into superpower status. It is simply imperative that the United States lead this charge into the Global Green Revolution, or it will be the start of a downward spiral resulting in America rejoining the league of ordinary nations.Behind the Middle Eastern, energy-rich nations, it could well be the beginning of the end of the American way of life. What we are seeing now is the price of mortgaging our future for the benefit of the present. We bought so much oil that we grew complacent rather than hungry for further innovation. Over the past thirty years, America has stopped serving its purpose in the world economy, which according to Mr. Friedman is “creating the future.” When you think about it, it's true. Throughout the 20th century, other industrialized nations were constantly playing technology catch-up with the United States; we were always a step ahead. 

There will be a legislative battle that will cost hundreds of billions (if not trillions) of dollars, and it will affect nearly every initiative of the government, from education to housing and urban development. For years, that was America’s position in the global community. We were the world’s innovators and inventors, we were “creating the future” and it was indeed a prosperous lifestyle. But now, the wheels have stopped turning. Maybe we became too complacent, maybe we became too focused on our national security, or maybe we became so ingrained in a service economy that we stopped innovating and inventing. By the time the competing nations were able to produce the same goods as us for a fraction of the cost, there was no next great thing for America. The possible cost of not becoming the world leader in alternative clean energy could sink America. 

So now we come to the question, “What the heck should we do now?” It is indeed a difficult question to answer. Everyone who has the power to shape our future is either complacent, pandering to special interests, or is unable to get a legislative majority together in order to pick the USA up by her bootstraps and kick-start those long silent wheels of America’s brain trust. It is an enormous challenge. There will be a legislative battle that will cost hundreds of billions (if not trillions) of dollars, and it will affect nearly every initiative of the government, from education to housing and urban development. Our leaders, both the elder statesmen of the previous generation and the new gung-ho representatives of the new generation, will need to follow the lead of a Democratic president and re-create America. 

We need to go over every single line of government policy and remove non-functioning programs while pouring money and resources into more important ones. America needs an overhauled health care system. Employees with benefits simply work better than those without them; it is an indisputable fact. Next (or possibly simultaneously), America needs to raise its CAFE (fuel economy) standards and demand that American auto manufacturers produce a 40-50 m.p.g. car while continuing to work on a 60-70 m.p.g. version. If America does indeed fall behind China as it fell behind the Middle Eastern, energy-rich nations, it could well be the beginning of the end of the American way of life. Furthermore, America needs to heavily invest in green technology to help American companies supply the world with equipment to capture the energy of the sun, in some cultures the energy of God. Also, America needs to invest in its future by ensuring that every child goes to high school and college; our math and science rankings worldwide show that our complacency will make us a far weaker society than we are today. Finally, America needs to cut frivolous military spending. We need to stop buying equipment that we don’t use and put our resources in the best places possible, in communications, in diplomatic efforts, and in foreign relations because neighbors who talk and share rarely fight. 

What I’ve just described may be nearly impossible. However, if such an effort is framed and marketed correctly to the American people, it will have the power to restore America to its former status as the world’s only true superpower. It's time to wake up!

Scott Matthews ’13 is undeclared. He is from Greenwich, CT. Contact him at samatthews@davidson.edu.