THE DAVIDSONIAN | WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2009

Professor ponders place and culture in Davidson

CAROLINE WOOD
News Editor

Dr. Michael Branch, a professor of Literature and Environment at the University of Nevada, Reno, is Davidson’s first Thompson Distinguished
Visiting Professor of Environmental Studies and is one of the founding influences of Davidson’s brand-new Environmental Studies Concentration. He will
give a reading of some of his works on Thursday in Dana 146. I spoke with him about his time
at Davidson and several of his more incisive opinions.

Tomorrow you’re reading from a piece of creative nonfiction. Is this a memoir?

No, I’ve spent most of my career as a writer and scholar and writer of scholarly articles, but in the
last few years, I have started doing a lot of creative writing, and it’s mostly environmental non-fiction. So, I’m going
to read a couple of different pieces tomorrow. One is a book project I’ve had in progress, which is a
collection of place-based personal essays that have mostly to do with how my understanding of environment and home has changed
as a result of my being a parent. I have a five-year-old and a two-year-old girl, and a lot of
my ideas about environment and culture have changed profoundly. The other piece is an essay that has to do with
how strange and interesting it is to move from a very remote rural area in the high desert in the
west to Davidson. I miss home terribly, but I love the scale of life here.

How exactly has your perspective changed?

I think the main thing is the fact that I can walk to everything. A lot of it has to
do with being in a human-scale world. I think people interact with each other differently depending not only on the
size of their community but also on what kind of environment they’re in. So if you live in a place
where it’s remote and high elevation and windy and snowy, it sort of breeds a certain kind of character. It’s
not that people aren’t friendly; it’s just very different.

FRANCISCO FIALLO
Staff Writer

On Thursday, Feb. 26, the Student Government Association (SGA) inaugurated Meikaela Zwieryznski ’10 and Baker Shogry ’10 as its new
president and vice president. Each of them brings a diverse perspective to the job: Zwieryznski is the first African-American female
to hold the position, while Shogry had previously served as a Patterson Court Council (PCC) representative, the first in the
past four years to make the transition to higher office in the SGA.

Outgoing SGA president Davis Greene ’10 began the ceremony by delivering a short speech, where he outlined some of the
efforts of his administration that would be continuing in the spring and next academic year. He discussed the Multicultural Resource
Center and its successful proposal: the Center would have two full-time staff and one student fellow and seek to provide
organizational and personal support to students of different ethnic backgrounds and sexual orientations, though the administration had yet to designate
a location for the Center. Greene also talked about the Alcohol Task Force that he assembled in the fall. He
said that the group would continue meeting until May, at which time it would compile a report and any recommendations.

Greene then administered the oath of office to Zwieryznski. She followed with a speech identifying other currently unresolved issues that
required attention: attaching cover letters to outgoing transcripts, continuing student input on the curriculum review, reforming the chartering and re-chartering
process for student organizations, and bringing the ZipCar car-sharing service to the college. While work on those issues proceeds, Zwieryznski
plans to identify and develop new initiatives—work that began with the SGA’s retreat, which took place over the weekend.

Zwieryznski followed her speech by soliciting outgoing representatives for advice. Senior Class President Richmond Blake ’09 recommended not pursuing reform
of alcohol policies, noting that many administrations before it had wasted time and social capital on the effort without real
progress. Representative Lauren Robles ’10 spoke about problems faced by PCC representatives to the SGA. She pointed out that they
often failed to communicate among each other or with their constituents in the Patterson Court organizations. The comments led to
a conversation about closer organizational ties to the PCC; Blake said that formal rules are already in the bylaws, but
not followed. Zwieryznski used this topic as a springboard to talk about other ways to make...the SGA more transparent to
the greater student body, announcing a policy of “office hours” that would give students face time with members of the
SGA. In addition, the SGA would have occasional “town hall” style meetings in the 900 room in order to draw
as much student feedback as possible. Senior Representative Duncan Bowling ’09 raised the issue of “tobacco limitation initiatives,” public health
measures that would limit the exposure of students, faculty, and staff to secondhand smoke. This would be done by creating
a radius around some (or all) college buildings where smoking would not be permitted. Bowling mentioned the “smoker’s corral” that
has formed outside of Chambers, which many students had found unpleasant, as well as noting that there are external grants
available to prevent and reduce tobacco use with the ultimate goal of banning smoking on campus. Not all students were
supportive of the initiative. Shogry expressed concern about the philosophical implications of banning smoking on a residential campus. Representative Caroline
Parke ’11 responded to the proposal by praising its goal of improving the health of the college community but was
worried about the social effects such a policy would have. She pointed out that the act of smoking was viewed
as counter-cultural by most students and worried that there was a risk of stigmatizing those students.

Do you think that some of those regional differences are disappearing as rural areas disappear and people lose touch with
the kind of environment they’re in? One of the classes I am teaching this semester is a class on bioregionalism,
which is the concept of how our understanding of a region changes when we think about it in the context
of a natural environment. Instead of thinking of ourselves strictly as identifying ourselves by telephone area code or a postal
zip code, what happens when we think in terms of a watershed or an ecosystem or a valley or our
relationship to public lands and the distribution of other non-human species? So I do think that regional awareness depends on
a relationship to place that is embattled in the culture. But I don’t subscribe to the blanket idea that the
culture is homogenized, that there’s a Wal-Mart wherever you go, and therefore regional culture no longer exists. In fact, being
in Davidson has helped to remind me that there are a thousand things that happen every day that people can’t
see because our local environment always becomes invisible to us, that are really quite specific to this place.

Do you collaborate often with scientists at your home university, and have you done so here? I’m actually teaching a
course here in Interdisciplinary Science Writing, and one of the things we’re talking about in that class is how scientists
get their data about the environment and the way regular folks tend not to change their behavior even though they
know that science exists. So we’re trying to ask the question, why is it, in our culture, that scientific information
isn’t sufficient to change the way we think or the way we act? So I don’t tend to collaborate with
scientists in my work, but in my own writing, what I tend to do is write the work of scientists,
but re-present that work in a narrative form, often a humorous form, that will be entertaining and accessible. Now you
would think that scientists would see this as stealing their stuff and vulgarizing it, but it’s just the opposite. What
I found was, when I talked with the biologists later, what they said was, this is so gratifying for us...because
we devote our lives to this research and we hope that the product of our

See Dr. Branch, page 4

Candidates for four independent SGA senator positions:
Ariel Adamson ’12
Andy Dunn ’10
Keneya Edwards ’12
Emily Glaser ’12
Daniel Langley ’10
Jack Peterson ’12
Stephen Pierce ’10
Justin Stafford ’12

Get a year. Get a career’s worth of returns.
An intensive, one-year Master's program, designed to accommodate students with little or no previous experience or coursework in Computer Science,
the CSPP provides an up-close, in-depth perspective of the current art and practice of computing. With a focus on computer
science fundamentals and the requirements of business today, the CSPP provides the instruction and training essential to harnessing new technologies
and putting them to use in real-world environments.

Computer Science Professional Program
masters.cs.uchicago.edu
