THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES

Seniors deserve registration flexibility

Everyone has an opinion on the courses offered at Davidson. “There are too few options in my major.” “I love that professor!” “All the classes I want are at the same time.” “I want to slay ‘that kid’ in my class.” “If I don’t eat or sleep between Tuesday and Thursday, I might get all the reading done!” Through the sea of the usual college-student complaints, one has actually begun to worry me. Over the past few weeks, I’ve heard of far too many seniors having to cry, claw, and argue their way into classes—if they end up getting into the class at all. At a small school like Davidson, shouldn’t seniors be able to get into any class they want, especially if that class stands between said student and graduation? Alas, after almost four years in the Bubble, I’m starting to wonder.

In the words of Bill Nye, consider the following: As a freshman, you gaze, doe-eyed, fondly at the Davidson course offerings. COLLEGE! Whoo party! Living away from the ’rents! Senior boys! Freshmen girls! Classes!? Your freshman fall courseload: RUS 203: Russian Trapeze in Film. HIS 174: How to live like a Bedouin. ART 103: Paint until you get locked in the VAC. SPA 275: Why are all Spanish novels so bloody? These classes entice and invite you into the world of being a real college student. The college classroom is a sexy world of the unknown. You still get lost in Chambers. (Um...I still get lost as a senior. Don’t worry.) The world is your oyster. Cultural diversity requirement? Check. History? Done. Art? Boo yeah. Foreign language AND literature in one Spanish class? Heck yes! After all, finding those elusive classes that knock out two requirements with one punch is like finding a $100 bill on the ground. That is, if you could pick it up and not violate the honor code. You are wise, young freshman, but you have a ways to go.

You have officially emerged from first-semester freshman year. You’ve now frolicked your way through months of college-induced fog, rekindled high school friendships over break, driven your parents sufficiently insane, and you're once again ready to take on the Davidson Bubble. You have seven semesters to complete seven classes. Piece of cake! But...you declare yourself an English major having taken only two courses. And you go abroad. And suddenly it’s the summer before your senior year and you have to take math, three requirements for your major, and a lab science in one year. Here’s where we get into student versus registrar. Get ready—the gloves are about to come off.

Here I present an extreme example. There are obviously ways to work the system in your favor. You can enter Davidson with up to four AP credits, thereby knocking out a few requirements. You can choose a major that allows you to complete both major and core requirements at the same time. But more often than not, the above example manifests itself in some way, shape, or form. I argue that Davidson seniors, regardless of major, should be able to push their way into any course they desire. Yes, I know, you can think of eight million reasons why I’m wrong. Perhaps I’m idealistic. Perhaps I shouldn’t feel so entitled. But honestly, after weeks of pondering the matter, I don’t see why my proposal is so unreasonable. If a senior might not graduate because they can’t get into the course he or she needs, who is the system hurting?

I’ve loved Davidson for its small class sizes, but sometimes it escapes me why the integrity of a lecture-based class would be compromised if certain professors could raise the ceiling by less than five people. This fall, I was able to take Politics of Africa via a raised ceiling and it easily became one of my favorite classes of my college career. Isn’t that what college is all about? Right about now my former biology, physics, and chemistry professors are fuming that I would suggest the possibility of raising the ceiling for seniors in lab science classes. Lab space is extremely limited—a problem that can’t be solved by raising ceilings. If the school is going to require a lab science, however, they must offer more than enough sections to complete the requirement. One of my friends put Chemistry of Art and Artifacts at the top of his first webtree every single semester since freshman year. He never got in and put another lab science at the top of his tree as a second-semester senior for fear of not graduating.

Some questions still remain. Will students abuse such a hierarchical system? Why should the registrar feel bad for the lowly student who waits until senior year to complete his or her [insert core/major requirement here]? Sometimes graduating or not graduating doesn’t ultimately come down to laziness. Things happen, people go abroad, and majors must be completed. Some people are lazy or irresponsible, but most Davidson students are not. If a senior wants to get into a course and makes a strong enough case, why wouldn’t we want that student enrolled? In fact, the only time I’ve ever been denied entry into a class was this semester—as a senior. So what Ashley? Does taking the classes you want really matter? I argue yes, it does matter. College is about finding your niche—what makes you passionate in a confusing world. Shouldn’t this concept reign supreme at Davidson?

Ashley Semble ’09 is a history major from Winston-Salem, N.C. Contact her at assemble@davidson.edu.

A tragedy of the Commons?

Bryan Norris
Perspectives Editor

There are many, many things on campus that connect the Davidson community together. Basketball games in Belk, After Midnight in the Union, and self-scheduled exams in Chambers are all uniquely Davidson. Perhaps one of the most emblematic institutions on campus is Vail Commons. Every student, and I’d assume almost every professor, has eaten in Commons. Some spend only freshman year in Commons, but what a big part of freshman year it is. However, of all of these things we have experienced together, this large spaceship/military bunker-looking building is, somehow, among the most divisive elements on campus. Many students absolutely love Commons; the “Phi Beta Commons Semi-formal” is evidence of just how special Commons is to some people. At the same time, there are folks on campus that find the dining hall to be too expensive for the quality, though certainly not quantity, of food available. Personally, I fall somewhere in the middle. I’m not quite as fanatical about Commons as some of my friends who eatthere for every meal, but I enjoy the company, the convenience, and the generally acceptable quality of food provided. That said, I think there are most definitely some areas requiring improvement. The food in Commons is outstanding at best, and downright ugly at worst. I use the word ugly for its cosmetic connotation; some of the food served looks hardly edible. I understand that Commons makes enough food to feed the student body, and that presentation is far from the top of the chefs’ lists, but making the food look edible is certainly something worth attempting. Take, for instance, the tamales served a few nights ago. The very simple fact that they were wrapped in a corn husk immediately made them more appealing and more enjoyable. This is a small problem that can be easily remedied through equally small actions. Menu diversity is also something that I’ve heard complaints about. To put it plainly, it comes down to the fact that every day there will be, at some point, a variety of chicken and rice occupying the Express Line. Yes, there are alternatives to the Express line in the du jour, pizza, sandwich, and grill lines, but they aren’t particularly healthy or varied either. With the exception of the du jour line, the other stations serve the same foods every week. They may have specials, but a pizza is a pizza, a sandwich is a sandwich, and a burger is a burger, just as chicken and rice are chicken and rice. I have left two options in Commons untouched. I’ll go ahead and say that the desserts are delicious and I have no gripes on that front, which leaves the nearly perfect salad bar. The new special salads are a great, great idea. However, more days than not there are no special salads and the inadequacies of the salad bar show themselves outright. While the ingredients offered to create a great salad are there, quality dressings to go on the salad are simply too few. Going down the line, every single dressing offered is cream-based. All these cream-based dressings would be fine, in my opinion, if there was a good vinegar and oil-based vinaigrette offered as an alternative. Yes, there are the bottles of olive oil and vinegar there to be used, but they simply aren’t the same thing as a honey or mustard vinaigrette dressing. Commons is a wonderful convenience for students. The people who serve us patrons clearly work very hard, and it’s a real joy to see them every day. I imagine preparing a meal for 1600 students three times a day is a logistical nightmare, and Vail Commons is already excellent. I’ve simply attempted to offer a few areas that could use improvement to make the experience more enjoyable. Bryan Norris ’10 is a political science major from Charlotte, N.C. Contact him at brnorris@davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2009

Guest Columnist

Obama’s interview with Al-Arabiya’s Hisham Melhem with the claim that Muslims need to do more to stop terrorism. He supports this argument by citing human rights abuses against women perpetrated in Pakistan, an alleged lack of Muslim action against Islamic terrorism, and the claim that there are 70,000 potential suicide bombers in London. Upon investigation of these premises, it is clear that Mr. DesPain has failed to reveal any of the sources from which he draws his statistical evidence and his statistics contradict figures compiled by the State Department. Furthermore, he omits information about law in Muslim countries concerning rape allegations and makes a logically flawed assertion about the number of suicide bombers in London.

Without naming his source, DesPain tells us that it is estimated that 75 percent of Pakistan’s female prisoners are incarcerated because they were raped. While false accusations of fornication and adultery against alleged female rape victims is a serious problem in Pakistan, the State Department’s Country Report on Human Rights Practices for Pakistan puts the percentage of female prisoners incarcerated for such crimes at 33 percent. Furthermore, while Mr. DesPain is correct in saying that Sharia law does require the testimony of four men to ensure a rape conviction, he omits the fact that some Muslim nations also accept a lower standard of proof in rape allegations. In Pakistan, for example, the standard of proof in rape cases depends upon if the accused will be subjected to Koranic or Secular punishment. Koranic punishment requires the testimony of four men against the accused and ranges from public flogging to stoning. Secular punishment requires a lower standard of proof, which is not specified in the Country Report. Secular punishment can result in up to 25 years in prison for the accused, in addition to 30 lashes.

According to the State Department, such punishment was bombers themselves. Mr. DesPain decries the seeming lack of action of Islamic Arabia and asks, “What has Saudi Arabia done to ensure that no more of its citizens fly planes into buildings?” Well, an article in the Economist entitled “Powers of Persuasion” (July 17, 2008) says that Saudi Arabia is seen by many as a model for fighting terrorism. The article cites a “hard-nosed security policy and deradicalization program in the prisons” as evidence of Saudi Arabia’s initiatives to abate Islamic extremism. Muslim intellectuals, as well as organizations such as Muslims Against Terrorism, are also rebuking Islamic terrorism. I recommend Mr. DesPain listen to Dr. Rafey Habib’s poem “To a Suicide Bomber” on YouTube.

Finally, DesPain cites a poll conducted in 2004 that asked British Muslims if they believed that further attacks by Al-Qaeda or similar organizations on the US would be justified. Mr. DesPain misrepresents the question and gets the statistic wrong. He says that seven percent of British Muslims agree similar attacks would be justified; however, the correct figure is 13 percent (Time, “Struggle for the Soul of Islam,” Sept. 13, 2004). Further, DesPain makes the claim that because there are over one million Muslims in London, there are at least 70,000 potential suicide bombers in the same. He commits a logical flaw by taking a statistic about British Muslims across the UK and using that statistic to make a generalization about the Muslims in the city of London. Even if seven percent of Muslims in London did agree that further terrorist attacks against the United States would be justified, that does not mean that those Muslims would become suicide bombers themselves.

Mr. DesPain’s article was poorly researched, and his claim that the Muslim world needs to do more to stop terrorism cannot be supported by the evidence he gives. He ended his article about President nations to prevent terrorism. He specifically cites Saudi