6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wade Morgan plays Live Thurs

ABBY PERKINS
Staff Writer

If you took a break from studying or final projects last Thursday night, I hope you found a chance to
go to the last Live Thursday of the semester, featuring Wade Morgan and an opening by Tom and Taylor Hogan.

Tom and Taylor, a vocal-guitar duo, performed four country songs to start the show. Their rendition of the Zac Brown
Band hit “Chicken Fried” rivaled the original, and they also played a cover of “Washed by the Water” by Needtobreathe,
but my favorite was their performance of “Walking in Memphis.” Originally written and performed by Marc Cohn, this song has
been covered by acts as varied as Cher and Lonestar. Tom and Taylor’s version was up-tempo and sounded well-rehearsed.

When Morgan took the stage with his guitar, he was met with an enthusiastic welcome from the audience. Before starting,
Morgan gave a heartfelt introduction. “The reason I came to Davidson was to be able to perform like this in
front of a group of friends,” he said.

Morgan performed 22 songs that ranged from classical to Christmas-themed pieces. The first song, a medley of “God Rest Ye
Merry Gentlemen” and “We Three Kings,” was festive and complex; the songs harmonized together nicely. Among the rest of the
Christmas carols Morgan played were “O Little Town of Bethlehem,” a fast, traditional rendition of “Good King Wenceslas,” “What Child
is This,” “Away in the Manger” and an absolutely flawless “Hark! The Herald Angels Sing” which was my favorite piece
by far.

He also performed several traditional classical pieces, including Spanish and Japanese folk songs and Bach, many of which made me
feel like I was sitting in a Mediterranean café instead of the 900 Room. The last piece, a rendition of
“O Holy Night,” ended the show perfectly with magical chords and a resounding final note. Wade shared, however, that his
experience with the song was not so perfect: he had to apply a fake cosmetic nail to his pinky finger
because it was too short to hit some of the notes, a revelation that elicited laughter and applause from the
audience.

The last Live Thursday of the semester displayed a variety of student talent and gave the large audience of student
attendees both a welcome break from their studies and a dash of holiday spirit. Look for even more Arts &
LIVING

Retailers offer gifts that help others

CAREY LEIGH EVANS
Staff Writer

On December 6th, Davidson hosted its 17th annual Alternative Gifts Fair in the Brown Atrium of the Alvarez College Union.
The alternative gifts available this year ranged from helping to provide food and shelter for the homeless in the United
States to providing a greenhouse for a poor North Korean family. Gift prices started at $5, proving that even a
small amount of money can help a worthy cause. Here are some other ideas that give a different sort of
holiday cheer.

Mercy Ships: Mercy Ships is a global charity that operates hospital ships in developing nations and “seeks to become the
face of love in action, bringing hope and healing to the forgotten poor.” Their gift catalogue this holiday season includes
donation opportunities to provide eye exams, dental work, bandages, surgical gowns, agricultural training as well as many other procedures and
supplies. Visit mercyships.org for more information.

Best Buy: Bestbuy.com lists twenty-four different products that are a part of Best Buy’s @15 Fund “which enables teens to
direct $1 million from the Best Buy Children’s Foundation.” Items available range from Band Hero to Sony Readers to DVDs.

Giftback.com: This website offers a variety of gifts from food and flowers to personalized money clips and bracelets. 10% of
every purchase will bedonated to the charity of the buyer’s choice.

Heifer.org: Heifer.org provides the opportunity to give animals and agricultural baskets to individuals in poverty. The mission of Heifer is
“to work with communities to end hunger and poverty and to care for the earth.” After a donation is received,
the donor can print out a holiday card letting the gift recipient know that a donation has been made in
his or her honor.

Kiva.org: Kiva desires “to connect people through lending for the sake of alleviating poverty. The organization is the world’s first
person-to-person micro-lending website, empowering individuals to lend to unique entrepreneurs around the globe.” Gift certificates from the group can be
given as presents. The money used to purchase these certificates provides loans to individuals in poor communities that are involved
in entrepreneurial projects. Pictures and goal statements are provided for each individual requesting a loan. After a certain amount of
time, individuals repay their loans. The money, then, re-circulates and is given to another start-up business.

TOMS Shoes: This company, founded by Blake Mycoskie in 2006, sells unique but casual shoes via its website, tomsshoes.com. For
each pair of shoes purchased, Mycoskie and his crew donate another pair to a child in need. Since the company’s
inception, over 150,000 pairs have been donated. TOMS sells a wide variety of styles for men, women, and children. Prices
range from about $50 to $80.

Food Network: This culinary media giant has decided to combine forces with Share Our Strength, an organization dedicated to ending
childhood hunger in the US. A set of cooking knives ($144 at foodnetwork.com) makes a thoughtful gift for any cook.
Proceeds will go to Share Our Strength.

Lush: This unique soap company has gotten into the holiday spirit as well. 100 percent of the profits from their
“Charity Pot Hand and Body Cream” goes into a donation fund for selected charities, some of which include Animal Rescue
Network and UNICEF. Lush’s website (lushusa.com) describes the lotion’s fragrance as that of a “spring garden.” The product comes in
a 7.9 oz tub and retails for $20.45.

St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital: Famous for their celebrity-endorsed television commercials, St. Jude partners with a wide array of retailers.
Every dollar of purchases made through their website (http://shop.stjude.org) or in stores that post the St. Jude logo goes toward
the organization’s hospital for children. The money is then used to fund research and provide sick children with the care
and attention they need.

Cook’s Corner: Holiday Glogg
ELLEN VISER Staff Writer

This sweet, comforting drink is a holiday tradition in my family. It’s great enjoyed both hot and cold. The alcohol
does cook out of the glogg, but those under 21 can easily substitute red grape juice for the wine.

2 quarts cranberry apple juice
1 bottle red wine (or grape juice)
1½ cup water
¼ cup sugar
2 cinnamon sticks
8 whole cloves
several whole cranberries (optional)

Combine all ingredients in a large pot. Simmer (don’t boil) for one hour. Serve hot or cold. Garnish with cranberries
or thin orange slices, if desired.

Wed. 12/9
Thur. 12/10
Fri. 12/11
Sat. 12/12
Sun. 12/13
Mon. 12/14
Tue. 12/15

Electric Music Recital, Tyler-Tallman Hall, 10:00 p.m.
Exam Period!
DCPC Cookie Study | Ice Cream Study, 10:00 p.m.
Exam Period!
Exams!
Exam Period!
Break, Good Luck!
The Eye of the Storm! Remember to Relax | Break is Almost Here!
Union Atrium, 900 Room, Reading Day Eve, 10:00 p.m.
Cappella Concert, Union Atrium, 9:00 p.m.
