THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

SGA continues business
SGA website, Commons discussed

CRISTINA BUSTILLO
Staff Writer

During its weekly meeting last Thursday, the Student Government Association (SGA) received Shauna’h Fuegen, a representative from ITS. Fuegen wanted to gather feedback from SGA regarding the change from Clean Access to Bradford. The change was made because Clean Access was not effectively checking for patches and viruses on Macintosh computers and Bradford would be more comfortable for most students. In addition to this, ITS is working on improving the wireless system, and they wish to receive information via email from students who are not getting correct wireless access in their rooms.

Following the ITS representative, Chipper Jones ’12 took the floor to talk about the Building and Grounds Committee. This committee is working with the creation of new dorms that will allow the college to increase the number of students. The first draft of the plan will be presented in November, and in January the final draft will be presented to the Trustees.

After Jones' short statement, Ben Carey ’12 came in for the final vote on the Charters for the Davidson Microfinance Club and Gamut Dance Company. The charters were passed with no votes against.

Once the vote was over, Meikaela Zwieryznski ’10 presented a proposal for a “Stress Management Event” that is planned to take place during the time right before final exams in the Lily Gallery. This event will provide an alternative and sustainable study space to what is currently available on campus, as well as supply students with healthy snacks. SGA is currently trying to find organizations to co-sponsor this activity.

Zwieryznski also introduced the topic of the SGA website. She met with representatives from ITS in order to fully explain what SGA wants in their website. ITS was very supportive and agreed that there should be a personalized student page containing news and other channels of communication between the college and the students. This webpage would also contain a more organized calendar that can compile all the events on campus. In addition to this, SGA also wishes to have all the information for grants, study abroad, classes, and other programs available on this website.

The last topic addressed during the meeting was that of some freshmen concerns on Commons. Faheem Rathore ’12, head of the Auxiliary Services Committee, brought up some suggestions that he had received from the freshmen class, and they will be properly addressed. Some of the concerns will be impossible to satisfy due to the fact that there is not enough space in Commons to add espresso and smoothie machines, or a sushi bar.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2009

Photo by Bill Giduz
College Republican debaters (left to right) Ryan Gough ’10, Andy Jones ’10, Reade Jacob ’10, and Jenner Gibson ’11 discuss healthcare reform during Thursday night’s debate in Tyler-Tallman Hall. Debaters for the Young Democrats included Chris Marsicano ’10, Walter Kucera ’10, Katherine Johnson ’10, and David Lloyd ’13. The debate was also co-sponsored with Engage for Change, the Eumenean Society, and the Roosevelt Institute and included a section of panel debate and rebuttals, as well as town-hall style questions and answers. “This was important because this is an issue that will affect all of us, and we all should be prepared with the knowledge about the decisions our congressmen and women are making and be able to hold them accountable,” College Republicans co-chair Ellen Thomas said. “Providing students with a school-wide debate allows them to see that this issue matters to their classmates and friends, and that it’s important to get involved in the discussion,” added Young Democrats President Allice Phillips.

Union Board, OLAS, Library host Halloween events

BRENNA KELLY
Staff Writer

Every year, Davidson holds some very unique Halloween traditions and celebrations, many of which begin tomorrow, Thursday, October 29. Tomorrow evening, children from the Ada Jenkins Center, a local nonprofit organization where many Davidson students volunteer, are invited to trick-or-treat on the Davidson freshman halls. The children of Davidson faculty and staff will also be joining them. Hall counselors and students work hard to prepare their halls for the trick-or-treaters, investing in hallway decorations, costumes, and candy to pass out. Additionally, there will be a number of activities for the children to participate in on the Belk Lawn. Student members of the Canterbury Episcopal Fellowship will be accompanying the children while trick-or-treating.

We'd Like You to Know

Jim’s career-long track record of achieving successful results for his clients has earned him recognition throughout NC and among his peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named to the Best Lawyers in America publication consistently for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina. As a former NC Court of Appeals Judge,Jim Fuller is a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the State for his commitment to justice and his exceptional litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience, he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people who have been injured by the negligent or criminal conduct of others. Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove and attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A member of the Lions Club, Jim also serves on the boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

APPEALS + BANKRUPTCY + BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS + ESTATE PLANNING

THE MCINTOSH LAW FIRM
Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill)
Davidson, NC 28036 • (704) 892-1699 • www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

Elizabeth Marie Melchionna, the Episcopal priest at St. Alban’s Episcopal Church in Davidson and the Episcopal Campus Minister on Davidson’s campus, said that “the Canterbury students are looking forward to spending some time with children from the local community.”

On Friday, October 30, the Little Library is hosting an event called “Ghosts in the Library.” Davidson storyteller Sauni Wood and retired Davidson professor Gill Holland will be telling their favorite ghost stories in the Rare Book Room at 8 p.m. Two Davidson seniors, Sarah Adams and Aimee Nieuwenhuizen, will also be reading a spooky story. Davidson librarian Sharon Byrd said, “It’s primarily for Davidson students, faculty, and staff (stories not really the kind that small kids would enjoy).” This is the first year we’ve done this, but we hope it’s a success and will be the ‘First Annual Ghosts in the Library’ event. Since we can’t have food in the Rare Book Room, we’re going to be handing out treats as people leave. No tricks; we promise!” Boylston continued.

On Friday, students have the opportunity to visit Scarowinds through the Union Board Special Events Committee. The themed amusement park (normally Carowinds) will be open on Halloween night and offers eight haunted mazes, three “scare zones,” a “dreadful new show,” in addition to regular rides that will be open for the night.

Finally: the big night. On October 31, aside from students taking advantage of an excuse to dress up and have a good time at the Halloween parties down the hill, the Union Board and OLAS have organized fun Halloween events for Davidson students. OLAS will also be hosting an event on Halloween, in the Union 900 room at 7 pm. To commemorate Dia de los Muertos, or Day of the Dead, OLAS has invited Alejandro Galvez to come to Davidson. Galvez is the founder of Grupo Painalli, a Charlotte-based group dedicated to the recounting of Pre-Hispanic customs. Jesse Johnson ’12, president of OLAS, said that Galvez “will do a brief demonstration of the Aztec Dance known as La Danza Azteca, a ritual performed to honor the forces of the universe. Each movement in the dance represents certain elements, like water, earth, air, the soul, fertility, and the sun.” In addition to a wonderful performance, OLAS will also be serving the attendants free pan de muerto, or “Bread of the Dead.”

Take advantage of all the celebrations Davidson has to offer this week, and have a Happy Halloween!

Prosser D. “Sandy” Carnegie has spent almost 30 years representing clients who have suffered substantial injuries due to another person’s negligence or criminal conduct, always with the client’s best interest above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the law including contract preparation and review, residential and commercial closings, land development and acquisition as well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia. In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community. Sandy, a Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as a commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & A.M., and has coached youth football, basketball, and baseball in the Davidson, Cornelius, and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION + PERSONAL INJURY
REAL ESTATE + WILLS & TRUSTS