THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Wildcat Pulse

Wildcats fall to Longwood 3-2

ANNA STOCKAMORE
Staff Writer

Davidson field hockey competed against New Hampshire on Friday, Sept. 25 on the Belk Turf field. They also played a NorPac member, Longwood, Sunday, Sept. 27 in Farmville, Va. New Hampshire defeated the Wildcats 6-0, as Davidson struggled offensively to find the back of the net. Melyssa Woods of New Hampshire scored the first goal at 2:27, followed by 2 other goals in the first 10 minutes of the match. After the first half, the score stood 5-0 and the Davidson Wildcats were able to hold UNH to only one goal in the second half. Christa Goeke ’10, goalkeeper for Davidson, made seven saves, which now places her in third in Davidson history at 288.

In Farmville, VA the Wildcats fell to Longwood by a close score of 3-2. Courtney Tobe ’11 scored the first goal of the game in the first seven minutes for her first goal of the season. Taylor Bender and Julia Hernandez of Longwood scored the next two goals bringing Longwood to a 2-1 lead in the first half. Hernandez scored again in the first 10 minutes of the game, but her goal was soon answered by Davidson’s Finley Amato ’13 to bring the game to the one-goal margin. The Wildcats were unable to score again in the second half. Davidson field hockey now stands at 2-8 overall and 0-2 in the NorPac conference. The next match is scheduled for a Thursday night game at home versus NorPac competitor, UC Davis, at 6 p.m. The team will also travel Sunday to Catawba for a 12 p.m. match.

Finley Amato ‘13 scored her second goal of the season in the Wildcats’ 3-2 loss at Longwood on Sunday.

Terriers, Paladins top ’Cats in SoCon action

ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

The Wildcats opened their season of Southern Conference play this weekend with decisions against Wofford and Furman. The ’Cats hope to regroup with a pair of road games on tap for this week.

Saturday afternoon, the team traveled to Spartanburg, SC where they took on the Terriers. Wofford pulled through for the win, defeating Davidson 3-0 (25-21, 25-21, 25-16). Leading players for the Wildcat offense includedsisters Madison Benedict ’12 and Jorden Benedict ’11 who each tallied 10 kills. Hayley Lawson ’11 racked 31 assists for the Wildcat attack. For the Davidson defense, Molly Crenshaw ’13 played strong with 14 digs. The ’Cats continued their weekend of play with a Sunday afternoon decision against Furman University. The Paladins swept the match in three games, winning 3-0 (25-18, 25-14, 25-11). Leading strikers for the Wildcats included Sarabeth Peele ’11 and Madison Benedict with seven kills each. The ’Cats stepped out of conference for a Tuesday decision against NC A&T, winning 3-0 (25-10, 25-19, 25-8). The ’Cats will play at Gardner Webb this Friday at 7 p.m., looking to pick up another win.

Sandy Cannes, fs gee alee wan repeacerg cen ha rant adie | eandags ie 2 poles pres we. Sopra aetas, day Si i heels ii ee shore sd che. Sendy och wubtied 2 she amet be lew ching cannes peepumare and eview, esata wed peers doerps, be Grebe ad ymin: ive meres lon’y a leemnie peetiee hier thie al nerd oon eb Comion md Vip, looks 0 le cay pein 2 ni thkows, Sandy if dodicnc de We fends andta Ser cermeay, Sandy. Cowie mite, wd St we Aas, cerry le tite ban dy Serecpiare. Sandy wd Dethe bave wa gree | hides, dirk: wt Peeatt Saal ered tap CRA toe mion aii Trad Daves, be erat © satin Teen el Darden comme, te aa meee Cae thc Cobege Prabyet oe Chard, 23 aorket ot Wilton Varn Lage d AES AM odo be wanal yk Ended bedi wad bisctal tae Vee sore: Convdon: seal Weenie rama TITTLE © RT OAL INN WALLIS WL as ‘200 Delbare Succi, Batic 20) fia the Howe Davide Cotses Mill] Ceniduen, SC 28h + (904) B-1GH + wow netreecieo fier coe

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2009

tience and focus began to ne divi nds. For the first 27 minutes of back-and Men’s Soccer vs. #14 Duke Tuesday 7 p.m. Alumni Stadium Kick, the home team in Boone slipped in header over the head of ave up tn Ward 0. The Wildcats enter the week coming off a huge 4-1 victory over #25 South Carolina in front of nearly a thousand fans at Alumni Stadium. The team, off to its best start since 1990, will be looking to capture yet another win over a ranked opponent.

Outside the Den

Green Bay (2-1) at Minnesota (3-0) Minneapolis, Minnesota Monday 8:30 p.m. Vikings quarterback Brett Favre faces his former team for the first time in the Monday Night Football match-up. Last week, the Packers defeated the St. Louis Rams 36-17 while the Vikings rallied past the San Francisco 49ers for a 27-24 victory. Favre found Vikings wide receiver Greg Lewis on a 32-yard touchdown pass with three seconds remaining in the game.

SoCon action, But that’s no deterrent to th ing to have fo ge’ beat So we’re going to go out and train hard with a game plan. There's no reason that if we play to the best of this year’s program will te on the Poel connections on and off the field ame unbeaten streak i imr regular season. e them a a challenge.

Alison Drutchas ’11 slide tackles a Villanova opponent during a recent home game.