Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

OE BOYFRIENDS START CAFFEINE-LOADING IN ANTICIPATION OF DANCE ENSEMBLE SEE PAGE 8

CHUBBY KID GETS FOUR HELPINGS OF CHICKEN PARM SEE PAGE 3

NEW CAMPUS WALKWAY FINALLY FORMS DIRECT ROUTE BETWEEN TWO BUILDINGS SEE PAGE 2

NEW YORKERS, A-HOLES YANKEES FANS; EVERYONE ELSE HATES THEM SEE PAGE 6

STUDENT WHO FALLS ON BIKE IN FRONT OF CROWD "TOTALLY FINE." SEE PAGE 7

OF THE WEEK SEARCH: ‘PROFESSOR BROTHERS BIBLE HISTORY’

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Honor

Section Editors: Alex Greening, Michael Biehn

Writers: Lauren Odomirok, Amanda Ottaway, Peter Bruton, Brian Correa.

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

Almost good enough

Maulings, Brawls, Copulation Mark Halloween ‘09 at Davidson College

Halloween 2009 at Davidson College was not just another holiday. The tiny, rain-soaked campus was overrun by bizarre and random
creatures of all shapes and sizes, and chaos reigned. Spiderman, grinding up on Little Bo Peep at Sig Ep, caught
a man in work clothes and thick glasses trying to cut in. He threw a punch, only to find that
the cutter was none other than Clark Kent, a.k.a. Superman, who tore off his work clothes and savagely battled his
fellow superhero. Bo Peep remained nearby, beating both men over the head with her cane.

An English major in a “Freedom” T-shirt and a Santa hat confused the masses until he explained that he was
an Independent Clause. English professors all over campus gave extra-credit points to students who mentioned the story in class.

Two separate sets of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, one comprised primarily of females and the other of males, were found
mating on the Vamanos Van. The two referees sitting up front could be heard blowing their whistles vehemently, signaling unnecessary
roughness.

The Commons staff was out in full force, mixing liquid concoctions of the all-you-can-drink variety; Branjelina took advantage of the
free booze and poured it into several baby bottles to perk up the fifteen sleepy children they were dragging around.

The Cowardly Lion accidentally bit off Rugrat Chuckie Finster’s head outside Connor, while the Scarecrow was torn to pieces by
an enthusiastic panda bear a few feet away. The Flying Monkeys kidnapped a delicate butterfly and the Wicked Witch of
the West drooled on her mini corn dogs in the Outpost.

The Davidson College Police Department has decided to omit these events from the Blotter this week, since thanks to the
costumes, the identities of the miscreants remain a mystery.

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER - November 4, 2009

Marijuana, Meth Added to List of Performance-Enhancing Drugs

Lausanne, Switzerland - In a statement released Tuesday morning by the International Olympic Committee (IOC), President Jacques Rogges has officially
banned crystal meth and marijuana from Olympic competition. Following the latest incident of drug use by high profile athletes, scientists
have decidedly confirmed reefer and meth are in fact performance-enhancing.

Last week world-renowned tennis juggernaut, Andre Agassi, attributed much of his success on the court to his raging addiction to
crystal meth. In his critically acclaimed autobiography, My METHods To Tennis, Agassi discusses his rampant use of the potent substance
to improve his tennis game and lead him to several Grand Slam titles in the 1999 and 2000 seasons. He
confesses in his memoir, “I never really found my comfort zone on the court until I cranked my first bag
of Twack during my finals match against Pete Sampras at Wimbledon back in 1999. It made me feel so alive,
it made me ready to dominate.”

This is just another headache the IOC has had to address in 2009. Just last January, 14-time Olympic gold medal
winner, Michael Phelps, came clean about his experimentation with glassware and Buddha cess to improve his ability to compete. Phelps’
extensive use of marijuana during his record-breaking Summer Olympic performance was what allowed him to perform at a “higher” level,
reported Smoke-Show Martinez, Phelps’ coach/dealer. Phelps al-Allegedly released the pictures of himself ripping a bong. “I couldn’t keep this a
secret. I want to see people succeed like me—swimming, breaking records, and rising to the top—all while chiefing the gas
mask in the locker room of the U.S. Olympic swimming team.” Rogges claims “he had no choice” but to ban
the substances: “It’s just not fair when you have guys like Agassi and Phelps using these sophisticated drugs to gain
the upper hand and lighting up the rest of the competition.” Further action has yet to be taken, but ESPN’s
drug analyst Marion Berry speculates that soon more athletes will turn to such methods to set their careers ablaze.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009

The Davidsonian Blade

Discussion Opens New Film Appreciation Program

Davidson—Monday night, the Biology, Philosophy, Religion, and English departments contributed to an interdisciplinary film panel on the cult classic movie
Blade Runner. By all accounts, it was a marvelous success for students and faculty alike. CIS Chair Robert Stacks said,
“We hope this is the first of many panels on film and ultimately we would like to offer more classes
on movies. We will offer a couple more panels throughout the year.” The next panel will be held December 10th
and will focus on social problems presented in Iron Man, Con Air, and Battlefield: Earth. The Con Air panel will
be the capstone presentation by students and professors from the English Department’s seminar, Reading Nicolas Cage: Contemporary Fiction and Bazookas.
The Biology Department hopes to address the growing climate problems with a screening of the film Bio-Dome followed by an
interactive discussion with Pauly Shore. “We are very excited to have Mr. Shore on campus,” Stacks said. “His curriculum vitae
is very impressive,” Stacks added. The History Department will also sponsor a screening of Muppet Treasure Island. “While it may
be a bit dull, this is really the only historically accurate film that investigates the political sphere of the seventeenth-century
New World colonies,” said Stacks. The Department of Religion is currently debating their next film screening. Department Chair Roger Bagley
explained, “The faculty can’t reach common ground right now. At our next departmental meeting we have to vote: Dogma or
Bruce Almighty? I am personally a huge fan of Morgan Freeman, so I’m voting for Bruce.” In a less formal
setting, the sophomores of second Akers will get high and watch Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle next Tuesday.
“I am not sure how we are going to incorporate that into the formal schedule,” Stacks said, “but it’s definitely
worth your time to check it out and hear the discussion. It should be fascinating.”

Major Disappointment: The Yowl’s Handy Guide

Major: Biology

Reasons people choose this major: Pre-med; they enjoy slicing carcasses open; sitting in labs is better than socializing with others;
no creativity or sense of humor.

Why people avoid this major: Running to check on a Petri dish at 11 pm on a weekend night is
not their idea of a good time; they don’t want to sit through labs they get no extra credit for;
they would rather analyze the hell out of society or art instead of cells; anatomy in practice is more fun
than anatomy in theory.

Career options: Doctor; surgeon; environmentalist; veterinarian; geneticist; Bill Nye left a pretty big slot open, why not fill that?

Description: Biology majors do indeed walk among us in fair numbers at Davidson College. While not off exploring the cross-country
trails for insects or mapping the human genome, they might be found watching the Discovery Channel or reading a book
about diseases for fun. They tend to be serious-minded, work-oriented individuals who enjoy problem-solving and digging into the concrete realities
of life on Earth. Unfortunately, it can be difficult for arts and humanities majors to find Biology people since so
much of their time is concentrated in labs or taking untimed take-home tests.
