The Davidsonian
Wednesday, April 22, 2009

Molly Duncan
Staff Writer

Students, faculty, staff, alumni, prospectives, and parents alike eagerly flocked to this year’s spring Dance Ensemble performance. Both shows last Friday and Saturday night packed Duke Family Performance Hall, creating a lively atmosphere for the over 200 dancers involved in the production. Stephanie Vertongen '10, Dance Ensemble President, made it clear from the beginning that all cheering was encouraged. The diversity of the organizations involved helped to make each dance special. The 21 different dances made Vertongen’s request an easy one: the two fun-filled acts had the audience on their feet both nights.

Dance Ensemble represents a unique collaboration of several Davidson campus organizations. This semester’s performance was a joint effort that included four prominent student groups: Shades of Brown, Gamut Dance Company, Davidson Dance Team, as well as the Swing and Salsa Club. The diversity of the organizations involved helped to make each dance special.

Gamut Dance Company wowed the crowd with their performance of “City Square.” This ballet piece showcased the talent of all the dancers involved. On a saucier note, “Time to Salsa!” and “Pink Panther Mambo” showcased the school’s talented salsa dancing students. Then, always a hit at athletic events, the Davidson Dance Team took their talents to the big stage. With their upbeat performance of “Only You,” the girls showed that they can master any performance venue.

“Stomp the Schoolyard,” one of the biggest hits of the evening, showcased Davidson’s step group Shades of Brown. This upbeat number featured classic recess games such as jump rope with some original step routines choreographed by Shantay Mobley, Erica Wallace, and Erin Turnquest. The 20 dancers involved stepped in perfect rhythm.

Many students choreographed dances. Veronica Thomas '11 designed “Have A Little Faith In Me,” a sequence that featured the Dance Team and Gamut Dance Company. “Although putting together a dance is a lot of work, it is all worth it when the crowd really appreciates what you have created,” Thomas said. In the end, the months of hard work by the executive board, choreographers, and dancers really made this show shine. The 25th Anniversary season has surely been one to remember!

A wide range of campus organizations collaborated to put on this spring’s Dance Ensemble. Above: Blair Swift '09, Sara Petrino '09, and Kristi Muscalino '09.

Opera Carolina performs ‘Turandot’

Ben Treland
Senior Staff Writer

Pop quiz: Name an opera that’s a killer for its singers but a thriller for its viewers? I’ll give you a hint: “Nessun Dorma.” If you guessed “Turandot,” you got it! This past Thursday in uptown Charlotte’s Belk Theatre, Opera Carolina concluded its 2008-09 season with a blockbuster drama: Giacomo Puccini’s final masterpiece, “Turandot.” The show was led by world-renowned conductor and Opera Carolina General Director James Meena.

When we think of Puccini, the names Madama Butterfly or La Bohème certainly come to mind. “Turandot,” completed by Franco Alfano, is a meritorious piece that culminates the operatic tradition of the nineteenth century. The choral and orchestral writing is skillfully laced with harmonies that reflect twentieth-century musical art. If an opera company is lucky enough to find willing tenors and performers to undertake its daunting roles, then it’s a go. Maestro Meena said in a recent interview with the Charlotte Observer, “It’s extremely difficult to find a tenor and soprano who can sing these roles without doing irreparable damage to their vocal cords.”

Internationally recognized stars including Lori Phillips, as Princess Turandot; Jee Hyun Lim, as Liu; and Roy Cornelius Smith, as Prince Calaf, gave outstanding performances. Lori Phillips has previously performed the role of Princess Turandot with New York City Opera and Atlanta Opera. Roy Cornelius Smith has portrayed the Prince for companies in both Europe and the United States.Costume design by Anna Oliver and set design by the Minneapolis Opera stood out as nothing short of elaborate. Complete with two intermissions, this performance of “Turandot” proved especially intense for the audience. “Turandot” could be considered a dramatic fairy-tale and love story. 

Opera Carolina staged a production of Puccini’s opera, “Turandot,” last Thursday evening at Charlotte’s Belk Theatre. Turandot, a princess of ancient China, has decided that she will never experience love. Any male that is brave enough to woo her must answer three riddles. Wrong answers could be lethal. In the first act of “Turandot,” the audience learns that a group of executioners have been sent to behead an unsuccessful suitor. “No one will ever possess me,” Princess Turandot says. A new suitor, Calaf, is tested and ultimately, to the horror of Turandot, he answers each riddle correctly. But Liu, a slave girl in love with Calaf, is denied happiness because of Calaf’s love for Turandot. Little by little, Princess Turandot begins to understand love and gives in to the tenderness that Calaf demonstrates. Liu ultimately dies, her love unrequited, in front of both Turandot and Calaf.

Puccini had written the music for “Turandot” up to Liu’s death when he was diagnosed with throat cancer. On Nov. 29, 1924, Puccini died without completing “Turandot.” One of his protégés, Franco Alfano, was enlisted by Puccini’s publisher to finish “Turandot” by writing a piece suitable as a climactic love duet. As Meena says, “It’s not Puccini but it’s an effective way to end the opera.”

“Puccini created two of the most vocally demanding roles in the history of Western Opera,” says Nolan Boyd ’12 who attended the opera. He went on to say, “Princess Turandot and Prince Calaf, both of whom were brought to vibrant life by the performers of Opera Carolina. The vibrant costumes and elaborate stage props used in the performance complemented the grandiose drama of Puccini’s most elaborate and experimental score.”

Interested in seeing a performance by Opera Carolina later this year? The future performances are scheduled to be “Carmen,” “La Boheme,” “Love Notes Concert,” “Party,” “Othello” and “Transit of Venus.” A weekend trip to Charlotte, combined with a culturally enriching opera experience, can provide a great getaway from Davidson.

---

Make summer work for you!
TACIE BINNEY
Staff Writer

Are you looking for work this summer? Are you trying to make money for study abroad? Just looking to pad that résumé? Summer experiences can range anywhere from waiting tables to lifeguarding, camp counseling to research pursuits. If you’re absolutely clueless where to begin your search for jobs, the Career Services website has useful information to help you find the perfect experience. Last January, Career Services put on a Summer Job and Camp fair. Links to popular databases of internships and counseling opportunities are still available on the website. Several options, such as the Calvin Center, do not have deadlines on their application forms and are yearlong programs. Camp Spearhead, an organization that works with children and adults with special needs, currently has multiple positions available for their summer camp. Search around and you are sure to find something that interests you.

Also be sure to check out the posters and flyers near the offices of your major department in Chambers. Professors and department heads post informational bulletins about specialized schools of study for students. If you’re still at a loss, talk to your advisor. Major advisors are a wonderful source of information especially for on-campus positions. Working at Davidson over the summer may seem like a daunting task, but many who accept research positions in their department often return to similar jobs later on. Talk to your professors, and find out if they know of research grants and opportunities.