14 Tue

Davidsonian

Curtis Young
Staff Writer

Over the next few months, we sports fans will be lucky enough to see a rare occurrence. The NBA playoffs will show us an athlete, just entering his prime, who is already on the brink of being talked about with the greatest ever hype. LeBron James has been a basketball sensation since his junior season in high school. Before his senior season, he was featured on the cover of Sports Illustrated. James is already worth tens of millions of dollars. But just how amazing is the greatness that we’re witnessing?

Many basketball fans have been quick to condemn James because of the attention that is lavished upon him by the sports media. He was anointed the savior of basketball and the “next Michael Jordan,” a blasphemous comparison to many die-hards. I agree that the media love gets tiresome. His every move is chronicled. Dozens of microphones record nearly every word he says. “The King,” at 24, has become a sports icon without even winning a title. It does tend to grind on the nerves.

I am writing to plead that we, as basketball fans, stop and smell the roses. We must remember that James is only 24. At 24, Michael Jordan was still a high draft pick with the potential to bust. At 24, Kobe Bryant was just achieving stardom. LeBron has already led a moribund Cavaliers franchise to an NBA Finals appearance (in 2007). He will undoubtedly capture his first MVP trophy sometime in the next few weeks. We should also not forget that James has started on a USA Basketball team that reclaimed Olympic gold.

That, however, is only the beginning. James puts up remarkable statistics, recording astronomical numbers in points, rebounds, assists, and steals. For a player so young, he has always shown impressive unselfishness and the desire to win above all. In other words, James fills the stat sheet without trying to do so. He plays to win.

For James, the winning has begun to arrive in spades. With the 2007 Finals appearance already in his pocket, LeBron led the Cavs to a league-best 66-16 record this season. That would be impressive even if a cast of all-stars played around him. Let’s examine James’ actual teammates. A lineup boasting Zydrunas Ilgauskas, Mo Williams, Delonte West, and Anderson Varejao does not exactly strike fear into the hearts of opponents. Without James, the Cavaliers likely would not even reach a .500 record. With him, they were the best team in the league.

One could argue that plenty of great players have won big with lesser supporting casts. Let’s take the Lakers, the league’s second-best team, as an example. Led by Kobe Bryant, the Lakers managed 65 wins. As great a player as Bryant has become, his supporting cast consists of former all-stars Lamar Odom and Pau Gasol. He has a young center in Andrew Bynum that is drawing comparisons to great centers of old. There is absolutely no comparison between the two supporting casts. In spite of this, LeBron’s team captured the best record in the league.

We are watching greatness before our own eyes. LeBron James keeps getting better. Most basketball players tend to hit their primes somewhere around the age of 27. Yet, at 24, we still haven’t even seen James perform at the highest of his athletic capability. Already a phenomenal athlete, the game’s brightest star is only getting better. We are lucky enough to see James play.

Baseball (13-21, 8-10)
Results:
4/17 @ #23 Ga. Southern L 7-12
4/18 @ #23 Ga. Southern L 8-20
4/19 @ #23 Ga. Southern L 2-11
4/21 @ Radford L 6-12
Next Up:
4/22 vs. N.C. A&T
4/24-4/26 vs. UNCG
Notes: After dropping four straight, the 'Cats hope to get back on the winning track in their upcoming weekend series against UNCG.

Golf
Results:
4/13-4/14 Palisades Invitational

Men’s Tennis (6-16, 2-8)

Jim's career-long track record of achieving successful results for his clients has earned him recognition throughout NC and among his peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named to the Best Lawyers in America publication consistently for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina. As a former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the State for his commitment to justice and his exceptional litigation skills.With 32 years of courtroom experience, he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people who have been injured by the negligent or criminal conduct of others. Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A member of the Lions Club, Jim also serves on the boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

APPEALS • BANKRUPTCY • BUSINESS LAW COLLECTIONS • ESTATE PLANNING

Charlotte, N.C.
4/16 vs. App. State L 0-7 12th Place
4/17 vs. Charlotte L 2-5
4/19-4/21 SoCon Championship Florence, S.C. Next Up: 7th place
4/23 SoCon Tournament Next Up: First Round Season Complete vs. Samford

Notes: Michael Saari ’09 led the Wildcats in the SoCon tourney and received All-Conference honors while Jackson Taylor ’12 was named to the All-Freshman team. The Wildcats are looking for a spark of life in the SoCon Tourney.

D. “Sandy” Carnegie has spent almost 30 years representing clients who have suffered substantial injuries due to another person's negligence or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the law including contract preparation and review, residential and commercial closings, land development and acquisition as well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia. In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community. Sandy, a Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as a commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town of Davidson committees, is a member of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & A.M., and has coached youth football, basketball, and baseball in the Davidson, Cornelius, and Mooresville communities.

Jim Fuller and Sandy Carnegie, Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home

LITIGATION • PERSONAL INJURY REAL ESTATE • WILLS & TRUSTS
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 • (704) 892-1699 • www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

season on a disappointing note,

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2009

in an era that is burgeoning with great young players. Carmelo Anthony, Dwight Howard, Chris Paul, and Bryant all possess some of the best talent the game has ever seen. Their stars shine brightly, and they will not simply lie down for James to hog all of the glory. These playoffs will provide plenty of drama, suspense, and great basketball. The story to watch, though, is the maturation of James into an all-time great. Yes, I said it. LeBron James is a breed that we have not yet seen. He has remarkable athleticism, but that is not what sets him apart. LeBron plays a beautiful, unselfish game that is absolutely fun to watch. You may get tired of the hype, but I suggest you stop and watch greatness unfold.

Lebron James (center) reacts to a long three-pointer made by Stephen Curry ’10 during the Wildcats’ 72-67 victory over N.C. State on December 6 in Charlotte.

Lacrosse (6-10)
Results:
4/17 vs. Stanford L 4-19
4/18 vs. Furman L 1-6
4/19 vs. Duke L 5-17
4/21 @ Presbyterian W 20-9

Next Up: 4/24 SoCon Tournament First Round Season Complete vs. Ga. Southern

Notes: Davidson lacrosse ended their season on an impressive note with a 20-9 shellacking of Presbyterian College.

Track and Field (11-11, 6-4)
Results:
4/11 Joe Hilton UNC Invitational

Next Up: 4/25-4/26 SoCon Outdoor Championships Statesboro, G.A.

Notes: Alex Hoyt ’09 set a new school record in the 3,000-meter run in the Joe Hilton UNC Invitational which was good enough for a third-place finish in his event. The "Cats are looking to finish strong in the SoCon Championships.

Women’s Tennis
Results:
4/17 vs. Stanford L 4-19
4/18 vs. Furman L 1-6
4/19 vs. Duke L 5-17

Next Up: 4/24 SoCon Tournament First Round Season Complete vs. Ga. Southern

Notes: Despite a spoiled Senior Day, the Wildcats finished the season with a .500 mark overall and a winning record in the SoCon as they hope to make a run in the SoCon Tourney.

3BR/2BA Lakefront Condo
Furnished w/3-4 beds & Washer-Dryer
School-Year Rental: $1200/mo August — May
Portside @ Davidson Landing

Notes: Leather sofa, 2 TVs, desk, grill, huge furnished patio w/lake view, tennis courts, and lakefront pool. Largest sand beach on Lake Norman. Incredible sunset views. Lakefront gazebo on docks.
634 Portside Drive / Jpavers@aol.com