4 Tue DAVIDSONIAN

Russell Banks, from page 3

...that feels and looks like the world you’re trying to place your characters in. And to do that, you need
information and details.

The setting for your novel “The Reserve” is your home. Why is it important to you to write about your
home, and to fictionalize it like that?

Well, I’ve also written about places where I’ve never lived, places I have visited, like Liberia and Africa, Haiti and
the Caribbean, Jamaica, and so on. But specifically upstate New York, I’ve only lived there since 1987. I grew up
in New Hampshire and Massachusetts. But it happens that that region has a kind of resonance for me, an emotional
liveliness, I guess is the way to put it, or vitality, for me. Not for everybody else. I don’t know
if it’s the landscape or the people. You know, so much depends upon what you bring to a place when
you go there. Other parts of the country, New York City, I’ve never written about. And I’m not sure why.
But I think it’s because of what I brought to that place, who I was when I went there. I
was responsive in a way that I wasn’t when I was in New York City or in New Jersey or
North Carolina. Can’t tell you why. It’s like some places enter into your dream life and others don’t. Why is
that? Why are your dreams set in one place and not in another? One place where your dreams are set
may be a place you only lived briefly. And then another place, where you lived a lot of your life,
you never dream about.

Do you have any advice for aspiring writers at Davidson?

Yeah, don’t quit your day job! That’s the first piece of advice! No, seriously, don’t quit your day job. Get
a day job! Here’s the thing I found: you need three things for your apprenticeship. You need your peers. You
need to find other young writers and to have regular access to them and their reading lists, the books that
excite them, their point of view, the world that is moving them. What issues are important to them are the
same ones likely to be true for you too. You need to find your contemporaries, other young writers. Be around
them. Learn from them. And sharpen your own blade against their steel. And then you do need a mentor, I
think. You need someone in your life. It doesn’t have to be for very long. It can be rather brief,
as it was in my own case. But someone you can use not necessarily as an editor or teacher, but
as a model. And the third thing you need in your apprenticeship is some way to get out of the
economy, at least for a few years. I pumped gas in Florida and lived in a little ten-dollar-a-week trailer. Spent
a couple of years bumming around, you know, getting by. Writing my first stories and poems. But I was out
of the economy. Your parents will hate you for that, and they'll try to get you not to do it.
But you do need that. You’ve got to find a way to step outside. It’s almost impossible to write and
read as much as you have to, especially during those early years, unless you can somehow find a way to
get yourself out of the economy. And I mean out of the rat race. I basically cut myself loose from
the template that society was trying to move over me to guide and organize my life for me. And that’s
difficult. I think it’s especially difficult today, since there’s so much more coercion on young writers and artists to conform.
You really have to be willing and able to float freely for a few years and withstand the kind of
criticism you’re going to get when people think you’re wasting your time and your talent and your dreams. But you’re
not. You’re gaining experience that will stand you in good stead later.

APPLICATIONS DUE: 2/27/09

ABERNETHY AWARDS ROUND 2

Again this year, funds from the George L. Abernethy Endowment will be available to support worthy initiatives by current first-year,
sophomore, or junior students. Individual awards fall into one of the following categories:
1) Independent student research, either in the US or abroad.
2) Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year or the summer.

At the request of the donor, applications are limited to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences.

Application forms are available in the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283). Completed application forms are
due back in this office no later than 5:00 p.m. on Friday, February 27, 2009. The announcement of awards should
occur prior to the exam period of the spring semester.

Inauguration, from page 1

Capitol, some people found it impossible to get through security in time to hear President Obama take the oath. Katherine
Johnson ’10 woke up in D.C. at 7:00 a.m. and, ticket in hand, walked towards a very crowded Mall. After...Futilely
standing in line for two-and-a-half hours to clear security, she turned back to go watch the inauguration ceremony on the
television in her hotel’s lobby lest she miss the whole event because of inefficient management. Johnson, who worked for the
Obama campaign before and during the primaries, put her disappointment into perspective. She said, “Ultimately, it is a good thing
that our President can drive those crowds to D.C. and get people enthusiastic about U.S. politics again.” In the end,
it didn’t matter to people where they watched the ceremony or that President Obama and Chief Justice Roberts stumbled through
the oath of office. As the magazine The Economist remarked, “For many, the thrill of the moment lay not in
what [Obama] said, but in who he was.” Watching the inauguration on TV, along with the other 38 million Americans
who did, was performed. The agreement stipulated that he would double funding student supporters could raise.

So much opposition from the student body was encountered. The labyrinth had strong support.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2009

The emotion that Obama inspires. People everywhere were crying and cheering simultaneously... It was like one giant celebration,” she remarked.
Yet amid the cheers, neither the President nor his audience forgot the country’s economic downturn, the ongoing wars abroad in
Iraq and Afghanistan, or the looming energy crisis. In his address, President Obama confronted such issues, asserting that “the challenges
we face are real. They are serious and they are many. They will not be met easily or in a
short span of time. But know this, America—they will be met.” Now, a week after this exceptional event, people are
turning to see how the new presidency acts on these real issues. “This appears to be a new era of
politics,” Matt Bondaryk ’09 said. “I simply hope that the interest and the democratic participation that we saw during the
elections and on January 20th can continue. If President Obama wants to ensure change, he’s going to have to engage
the American public in politics in a way that no president has before.” Based on the unprecedented enthusiasm surrounding the
inauguration ceremony, it seems President Obama has already begun.

If the ATC had sensed that the student body deemed this artistic and spiritual project worthy of addition to campus,
the committee could have voted, cut the check, and built the labyrinth without much hassle. While there have been serious
discussions regarding losses to the endowment due to the falling market, and the College has considered areas in which to
cut back, many spending initiatives on campus seem to have remained the same. So it seems odd that something so
promising as a labyrinth...

Crisis reporter to visit
Katie Lovett
Staff Writer

Jon Sawyer, director of the Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting, will be speaking at Davidson College on Feb. 2 at
7 p.m. in Tyler-Tallman Hall, located in the Sloan Music Center. The lecture is free and open to the public
with no ticket required. The Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting is a non-profit organization that funds independent reporting with the
hope of raising the standard of media coverage regarding international affairs.

After a 31-year career with the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, the only major citywide newspaper in St. Louis, Missouri, Sawyer became
the center’s founding director earlier this year. He was the Post-Dispatch Washington bureau chief from 1993 through 2005 and had
been a member of the newspaper’s Washington bureau since 1980. Prior to this, he worked as an editorial writer before
transitioning to work as a staff reporter. Sawyer’s assignments have allowed him to travel to about five dozen countries, including
Cuba, Haiti, the former Soviet Union, Bosnia, Israel, and China. However, since September 11, the Middle East and predominantly Muslim
countries have been Sawyer’s focus. In 2003 he reported on a four-nation tour through the Middle East prior to the
Iraq War before reporting from Afghanistan in 2004.

The National Press Club has named Sawyer the best foreign reporter three years in a row, and the Overseas Press
Club, the Inter-American Press Association, and the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University have also honored his work. After
reporting on defense procurement contract abuses, Sawyer received the top investigative reporting prize among large newspapers from IRE (Investigative Reporters
and Editors). Additionally, the Atomic Industrial Forum and the American Association for the Advancement of Science honored his reporting on
the issue of nuclear waste disposal.

Sawyer was born in Winston-Salem, North Carolina and graduated from the Phillips Exeter Academy. Sawyer’s educational background includes a B.A.
degree from Yale University in 1974, where he majored in English Literature and History before moving on to be an
Alfred Sloan Fellow in Economics Journalism at Princeton University’s Woodrow Wilson School of Public Policy from 1978-1979. Sawyer was a
research fellow affiliated with the Center on Press, Politics, and Public Policy at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of
Government in 1992. Attending this lecture will be an excellent opportunity for those wishing to gain exposure to such a
pioneering force in the field of journalism.
