THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

“Evo devo” at Davidson

Kara JONES
Staff Writer

This year’s Smith lecture brought renowned evolutionary scientist Sean B. Carroll to Davidson, presenting a lecture entitled “Remarkable Creatures: Epic
Adventures in the Search for the Origins of Species.” As we celebrate Charles Darwin’s 200th birthday this year, the biology
faculty thought he would be an excellent speaker. Carroll currently stands at the forefront of the field of evolutionary developmental
biology, more commonly known as “evo devo.”

This field observes developmental processes in plants and animals in order to find ancestral relationships between organisms, and how they
evolved. His personal studies have explored DNA and found it to be more than a genetic blueprint, but a detailed
record of how species adapt and change over time. He teaches molecular biology and genetics at the University of Wisconsin,
in addition to serving there as an Investigator with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute.

In the dinner at President Ross’s home preceding the lecture, selected students and faculty had the opportunity to ask Dr.
Carroll questions. His answers were light-hearted and jovial. When Dr. Mike Dorcas, professor of herpetology, asked Carroll about interest in
snakes, Carroll replied, “I love flipping logs, reaching hands into ponds and there catching snakes.” Apparently, it was in this
childlike excitement of nature that his biology fever first hit. “Even still I have the same visceral thrill seeing what’s
under the next log or around the next corner,” he said.

Dr. Denham made the comment that today in his humanities lecture on Darwin’s “Origin of the Species,” when he stopped
to admire the intricacies and beauty of the language in the text, students immediately defaulted to discussing social theory and
social wars. Carroll called this the CNN effect, saying that we have lost that shared culture experience of watching television
before there were hundreds of channels available to us. “I worry that our students have been brought up by CNN
talking heads,” he said. Perhaps this was some of his inspiration for penning a number of readable books on his
findings.

Carroll has written eye-opening books including “Into the Jungle,” “The Making of the Fittest” and “Endless Forms Most Beautiful.” His
most recent work, “Remarkable Creatures,” was the subject of Monday’s presentation, celebrating the lives and collaborative work of scientists Alfred
Wallace, Charles Darwin, and Henry Walter Bates. While Darwin officially developed the original theory of evolution, his contemporaries Wallace and
Bates were pioneering adventurers, too. The three men became great friends over the years, and together promoted the theory of
evolution. “Their voyages and work,” Carroll said, “mark the first golden age of evolution.” He then went on to say
why he believes we are now in the second golden age. Our range of technology, as well as partial DNA
sequences and miladon fossils as a record for keeping genomes demonstrate our incredible accomplishments in this field.

Immediately after the lecture, students were already buzzing with discussion. Shamita Punjabi ’12 appreciated more about Carroll’s lecture than the
pure content: “He made it an emotional thing—it wasn’t just science,” she said. “He brought a lot of pathos into
it, which made it special.”

Category III Election Results

Class of 2012
Class President: Chipper Jones
SGA Senators: Faheem Rathore and Jordan Starck
Honor Council: Andrew Evans, Daniel Keller, Rebecca Weidler

Class of 2011
Class President: Elliott Campbell
SGA Senators: Rayna McKenzie and Ethan Dunn
Honor Council: Courtney Tobe, Jenner Gibson, Andrew Wilkins

Class of 2010
Class President: Laura Sousa
SGA Senators: Jessica Givens and Lauren Robles
Honor Council: Sarah DeLoach, Hunter Hedrick, Elizabeth Krebs, Chris Marsicano

FRANCISCO FIALLO
Staff Writer

The charter reform initiative for student activities came one step closer to reality on Thursday as Student Government Association (SGA)
President Davis Greene ’09 and Senator Emily Cannon ’09 unveiled a proposal to the SGA for public comment. As currently
written, the reforms would alter limits on how much organizations could spend on student pay, which would have a particularly
dramatic impact on The Davidsonian.

The initiative was the product of discussions between Greene and Cannon, who is currently serving as Charters and Bylaws Committee
Chair. As part of that position, Cannon was tasked with annually approving the charters of each student organization. However, Cannon
was given no criteria on which to base that decision. Those charters are a prerequisite to accessing the school’s Student
Activities budget, a fund paid by one percent of tuition dollars that came to $546,150 for the past academic year.year.
The reforms would divide student organizations into five hierarchical categories, with additional privileges allotted to higher organizations. Those categories would
be: Registered, Provisional, and Charter I-III. Registered organizations would have access to basic resources, such as using rooms on campus,
holding fundraisers, and being able to recruit at the activities fair, though they cannot obtain funding from the Student Activities
budget. Provisional and Charter categories allow for funding (with limits on funding defined by category) but must adhere to membership
requirements, demonstrate a unique mission on the campus, and satisfy waiting periods before moving to a higher classification. SGA President-elect
Meikaela Zwieryznski '10 voiced her support for this part of the reform, noting that the membership requirement was connected to
an organization’s longevity—if an organization was dependent on the participation of a few key members that then graduated, then that
organization would be more likely to stagnate and waste funds.

The town has the ability to opt out of the contract and finalize it. Davidson got money from the stimulus.
I am not sure how the stimulus will help or if it will fund shovel-ready projects. We do not have
many projects of the size being looked at nor do we have many shovel-ready projects, he said. Everyone is trying
to figure it out. According to their website, jm-aq.com, McAllister & Quinn is a mid-sized government relations firm that works
with not-for-profit organizations before the Federal government. In addition to lobbying the federal government, they provide strategic advice. He has
asked us to reach out to the grassroots level of the town’s citizenry, she said. He indicated a certain amount
of general confusion about the role the stimulus package will play in funding town projects. The first round of stimulus
is for legislative assistance. His network of contacts on Capitol Hill and knowledge of congressional procedures is extensive. Tracking the
stimulus is difficult, he said.

The highest category of organization, Charter III, will be allowed to spend up to $5,000 of its budget on student
pay (other organizations are barred from paying students), capped at $1,000 and $750 for the two highest-paid members of an
organization. In addition, total student pay would be limited to less than 3 percent of the Student Activities budget. If
enacted, this would relax the stringent rules on student pay, which are frozen. Given the current criteria, the only Charter
II organizations on campus would be the SGA, The Davidsonian, and the Union Board; of those, only The Davidsonian’s $9,800
student payroll violates the proposed limit. That payroll is used to pay stipends to section and copy editors, as well
as business and circulation managers. In reference to the problem, Greene expressed a desire to reduce the ranks of paid
staff at The Davidsonian, though he was reluctant to demand reductions that might reduce the quality of the newspaper. Several
representatives had comments on the issue of student compensation. Senator Jordan Starck ’12 said that he would prefer a measure
of accountability for paid student officers. Representative Caroline Parke ’11 elaborated, noting that The Davidsonian competes with other on-campus publications.
Therefore, the newspaper and campus would benefit from more accountability to the SGA and Activities Tax Council, the body that
allocates funding to student organizations. Nevertheless, it is not guaranteed that such changes could be achieved or practically enforced. The
Davidsonian is unique in that only some of its budget comes from the Student Activities budget; it also receives revenues
from advertisements and subscriptions. As Representative Hannah Pommersheim ’11 pointed out, there would be no way of determining whether The
Davidsonian was spending independent revenues or ATC dollars on student stipends. Given the breadth of the reforms, no immediate action
on the proposal will be taken. Such large-scale changes would require changes to SGA and ATC bylaws, at least some
of which would require the student body to vote on a referendum.

Levine indicated that Dye has already started to give some strategic advice and counsel to its clients. Dye himself, according
to his bio on the firm’s website, brings over 13 years of congressional and government experience. Levine said that the
town, through Dye, is hoping to bang the drum really loudly in order to bring attention to its projects. Hopefully,
it will bring some good.
