2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2009

Students enjoy friendships with local senior citizens

News Editor

Of the many comforts of home that college students often miss, one can be the relaxation and peace of spending
time with family. But participants in the Davidson Adopt-a-Grandparent program have found a refreshing way of dealing with this challenge:
meeting and enjoying the company of a local senior citizen who is happy to be their “grandfriend.”

The program, which has been active for over 30 years, works in conjunction with the Town of Davidson Department of
Parks and Recreation. The Department helps Lindsay Howard ’10 and Liz Rollins ’10, the President and Vice President of the
program, identify senior citizens who have shown interest in being friends with a college student. They then review student interest
and attempt to find the best personal match for every student.

“We work hard to pair grandfriends and students that have similar hobbies and interests,” Howard said. She explained that the
Parks and Recreation Department is particularly helpful in matching students and grandfriends, since many of the senior citizens have been
participating in the program for numerous years, and the department staff knows them well. The Parks and Recreation Department also
helps the Davidson student coordinators plan campus programs and often provides food and refreshments for participants.

About 50 Davidson students and local senior citizens are currently involved with the Adopt-a-Grandparent program. Howard reports that more students
express interest each week as the program continues to grow. Howard explained that the program hours are flexible, but students
are expected to stay in touch with their grandfriend throughout the year and to attend a small number of group
social events that the program coordinators plan and host. Beyond that, students and their grandfriends can pursue their friendship in
any way they want, planning their own activities and meeting times.

Group events, which are held on campus, usually focus on sharing a meal and company. Recently, the program organized a
game and cookie night, to which seniors and students brought their favorite board games and treats for an evening of
lighthearted fun. Adopt-a-Grandparent also hosts a number of annual events, including their Thanksgiving Potluck, which will take place this Thursday,
and a catered farewell dinner at the end of the year. Program participants also attend formally organized activities, like sporting
events and choir performances, together.

The Adopt-a-Grandparent program started in the 1970s, when Davidson Senior Services, a public program disbanded in 2004, founded it as
an avenue to encourage students to assist the elderly. The program, which was originally entitled the Student Senior Friendship Program,
soon switched focus from the assistance students could provide with daily tasks and chores to the meaningful relationships that were
developing between students and grandfriends.

The program coordinators emphasize the fun and relaxing nature of the program, which many students find a pleasant alternative to
the stress and pressure that they often experience on campus. Howard also focused on the enrichment that can arise from
a friendship with an individual of another generation, who has life experiences and insights that are encouraging and inspiring for
students.

“This program works to break the intergenerational divide, and connect Davidson College more with the Davidson Community,” Howard said. “It
is really a great way to meet people from the Davidson area and foster meaningful connections with them.”

SigEp hosts Turkey Trot

KELSEY LILLEY
News Editor

This Saturday morning at 9:00 amidst Bruegger’s Bagels and hot chocolate, Davidson students, faculty and community members will gather on
the Town Green for the 5th annual Sigma Phi Epsilon Turkey Trot. The Turkey Trot will be a 5K race
to benefit the Free Clinic of Our Towns at Ada Jenkins, a non-profit volunteer organization that seeks to bring healthcare
to those in the community who can’t afford it.

“The Free Clinic’s services are in more demand than ever with the state of the economy,” SigEp Vice President of
Programming Bryce Jones ’11 said. “Unfortunately, much of the charitable donations that keep the Clinic running have fallen off just
when our community needs the Clinic the most.”Of the brothers of SigEp volunteer for the Clinic itself or Ada Jenkins,
Service Chair Scott Connors ’11 revived the Turkey Trot after “a three-year hiatus.” “The race course will take the runners/joggers/walkers
through the beautiful fall streets of Davidson,” Jones said. “There will be fabulous prizes for the top men and women
running and walking finishers. Prizes include Fox and Hound gift cards, Fox and Hound party starter gift pack, Brixx gift
certificates, and Fox and Hound appetizers.” To sign up, students, faculty, and staff can register at the bottom floor of
the Union from 11:30 a.m. to 1:15 p.m., as well as from 3:30 to 5:00 p.m. Registration is $10 in
advance, or $12 Saturday morning beginning at 8:30, and comes with a t-shirt. So far, SigEp has raised around $2,500
for the Free Clinic, and hopes to total $3,500 after the race. In addition, all proceeds from registrations will go
directly to the Free Clinic, as SigEp has donated $1,500 to cover the race costs. “The response from SigEp alumni,
many of whom remember the Turkey Trot from their time here, has been outstanding,” Jones said. “We certainly hope that
our event can raise awareness about the Free Clinic and its mission. Davidson students are already very involved in this
cause, and we would like to let the whole campus know.” Besides raising money for charity, eating bagels, and getting
some exercise, Jones cited one last reason to be excited for Saturday’s Turkey Trot. “Chris Ryan, SigEp’s President, has been
training for two weeks for this race,” Jones joked. “He will also be wearing all Under Armour.”

Howard went on to explain that when she first joined the program, her relationship with her grandfriend helped ease the
transition into college life. “My freshman year, while adjusting to Davidson’s academic and social atmosphere, it was comforting to have
someone close by care for me,” she said. “My grandfriend took me out to lunch and invited me over to
her house anytime.” Howard even went on a trip to Winston-Salem with her grandfriend and her daughter during her freshman
year.

Like the students who prefer their heated rooms, the citizens of a nation may not be able to conceptualize the
costs not indicated in a good or service—costs to greenhouse gases, and so forth. The inability to date of pricing
in an environmentally-friendly manner. Because the cost of pollution from coal burned exceeds a cap, the cost to offset the
effects of emissions.

Liz Rollins ’10, Vice President of Davidson’s Adopt-a-Grandparent program, enjoys a meal with her adopted grandparents at a campus community
event for all participants. The program is also a good way to meet other Davidson students, since many of the
grandfriends have relationships with a number of students. Howard explains that she often goes over to her grandfriend’s house with
the other two Davidson students she has been paired with so that the group can enjoy some “family time” together.
Students who are interested in participating in the Davidson Adopt-a-Grandparent program should contact Howard or Rollins.

The most energy drives competition between dorms and has in the past resulted in the Dark competition. Are any of
relevance? Turn off your lights before you leave! Do you really need your overhead light and your desk lamp on
at the same time? Does your Xbox need to be plugged in 24-7? Gaming systems, TVs, and DVD players all
draw electricity even when they’re TURNED OFF! Plug them into a power strip and flip the switch off when you’re
not using them; power strips cut the electrical current entirely when in the off position. Do you really need to
be logged into Facebook while you sleep? Computers also draw copious amounts of electricity when plugged in, even in sleep
mode. Even though heating is from natural gas and not electricity and therefore doesn’t factor into the calculation of Do
It In The Dark standings, it is always better to use layers instead of cranking up your thermostat.
