2 Tue DAVIDSONIAN

Kara JONES
Staff Writer

One of the exciting new opportunities of this year of sustainability is the introduction of the Green Grant program. Students
with ideas for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and improving sustainability on campus can apply for a grant of up to
$2000 and see their idea come to fruition. Through this program, students can leave a lasting impact on campus and
focus on issues that interest them in regards to sustainability.

“Sometimes it is hard to know how to get students involved in sustainability on campus,” Sustainability Fellow Kealy Devoy ’08
said. “This program allows students to personally get involved.”

Three grants were awarded this year. Alexis Valauri-Orton ’12, Erin Betsch ’11, Madeline Dick-Godfrey ’12, Anna Stockamore ’12, and Erin
Keitel ’12 received a green grant for an idea from their Introduction to Environmental Studies class last semester. All of
the students had to work in groups on a project in which they came up with a feasible plan to
reduce carbon dioxide emissions produced by the campus. When brainstorming, one of the girls remembered having heard about a gym
in Oregon that converted the energy exerted on workout machines into energy to power the gym. The team called the
owner and found out information about a company called ReRev that can fix machines in this special retrofit process. When
a person exerts force on a machine, such as an elliptical, the circular motion can be harnessed to a generator,
which will go back into a power grid. This power grid can be wired straight into the building grid and
contribute to the power of the building.

The team got the grant and is now working with ReRev to decide how many elliptical machines in the Union
gym can be retrofitted over the summer.

ALEX KOWALESKI
Staff Writer

On April 18, the Davidson Biology Department, in association with several local and state conservation groups, will sponsor Reptile Day.
This event is an effort to help the student body and the people of Davidson learn more about local reptiles
and amphibians and efforts to protect them. Reptile Day will take place in the Blanche Knox Parker Memorial Garden, between
Dana and Watson science buildings.

According to Dr. Michael Dorcas, 2009 is the ninth year featuring a Reptile Day, which he describes as an “outreach
to the community about amphibians and reptiles—especially ones that live near Davidson.” Dr. Dorcas adds that one of the main
goals of the program is to dispel the negative myths about reptiles that many people believe. He believes that without
an understanding of these creatures, it is difficult to understand their importance. “The first step to conservation is appreciation,” Dr.
Dorcas said.

Reptile Day will feature a wide variety of local amphibians and reptiles. Some of the highlights are a six-foot-long black
rat snake, a young alligator, and a snapping turtle. The exhibit will also include many species of frogs and multiple
species of venomous snakes such as the rattlesnake, copperhead, and cottonmouth. Dr. Dorcas will give a presentation about these venomous
snakes at 11 a.m. and 12 p.m.

Peggy McKay ’10, the student charged with planning Reptile Day, said the goal of the event is “to promote awareness
about reptiles and amphibians and the different con-

NEWS - Green Grant program debuts

“The project is mostly for awareness,” Valauri-Orton said. “We might not be able to retrofit that many machines, but it
will be a visible education project. We also want to turn a corner of the gym into a green corner.”
This green corner would feature information about how much power we use for even simple tasks like charging a cell
phone, and advertise ways to cut down on energy use.

Sonia Huang ’10 is a resident of the Eco-House. Her grant will be going towards efforts to make the Eco-House
even more sustainable with several new retrofit appliances.

“Sometimes it is hard to know how to get students involved in sustainability on campus. This program allows students to
personally get involved.” - Kealy Devoy ’08

Kaela Frank ’11 received a grant to revamp the clothing and furniture drive started by the EAC five years ago.
Shewanted the grant to assist in forming a group with more sponsorship and is working with RLO and Physical Plant
to get the drive started again. Her grant will improve sustainability by collecting things usually thrown away by students moving
out of their dorms at the end of the year and donating them to various local charities including Goodwill, the
Salvation Army, and Lydia’s Loft. “The collection is the hardest part,” Frank said. “We are using the grant money to
buy reusable 50-gallon plastic storage bins to put in residence halls to collect their leftover food, electrical items, school supplies,
and clothing that they would otherwise throw away.” A separate box for furniture will be in a different location.

One visitor enjoys learning about snakes at Reptile Day 2008.

Wednesday, April 8, 2009

Below are the circumstances and outcomes of the five cases considered by the Honor Council during the fall 2008 semester.

Aug. 30, 2008:
Charge: Cheating
Plea: Admitted guilt
Result: F and 3 withdrawals for spring 2008

Oct. 2, 2008
Charge: Cheating
Plea: Admitted guilt
Result: F in 2 classes where cheating occurred

Oct. 18, 2008
Charge: Cheating
Plea: Admitted guilt
Result: F and 3 withdrawals for fall 2008

Oct. 28, 2008
Charge: Harassment
Plea: Not guilty
Verdict: Found guilty
Result: Apology letter, required counseling

Dec. 17, 2008
Charge: Cheating (2nd offense)
Plea: Admitted guilt
Result: F and 3 withdrawals for fall semester and indefinite suspension

The renovation plans for Cannon dormitory have been finalized for this summer after a vote by the executive committee of
Davidson’s Board of Trustees. RLO has projected that the expenses, which include labor, furniture, and electrical fixtures, as well as
external site renovations such as sidewalk repairs and a sprinkler system, will come to $1,510,000. This figure also includes conservation
efforts.

Among the local groups with representatives at Reptile Day will be Davidson Lands Conservancy and Davidson Parks and Recreation. State
organizations will include North Carolina Partners in Amphibian and Reptile Conservation, the North Carolina Herpetological Society, and the North Carolina
Wildlife Resource Commission. Despite the presence of these groups, McKay described Reptile Day as “[entirely] run by student volunteers.”

Davidson College’s efforts to protect local reptiles and amphibians also include the preservation of 92 acres of local wetland. According
to Dr. Dorcas, the area was slated for development, but Davidson had worked to preserve the property since 2000. Recently,
Davidson’s efforts succeeded, as Mecklenburg County purchased the land to make it into a nature preserve.

Reptile Day is open to both the Davidson College student body and the local community, including children. Dr. Dorcas describes
the event as “very family-oriented.” “Bring your kids,” he added. McKay concurs. The main goal, she agreed, “is to have
a fun event where children and community members can interact with these animals and come away with a greater appreciation.”

Associate Dean of Students Patty Perillo explained in February that a number of students had contacted her with complaints that
Cannon dormitory did not need repairs, or that other buildings are in more urgent need of work. Perillo explained that
the voting committee unanimously judged Cannon as the residence hall most in need of renovation, based on both its physical
condition and its importance in the condition that Davidson and its leadership feel that this kind of expense is necessary.

“Jamie Knowles ’10 said of the project, however, committee members point out that the estimate is cheap and reasonable for
such an important large-scale project, considering market prices and standard rates.”

Perillo seconded that sentiment. “We are very mindful of these economic times we are in, and President Ross has been
dutiful, thoughtful, and deliberate in making this decision,” Perillo stated. “We are very mindful of the project and we are
keenly aware that while we are finding ways to reduce and minimize costs, we also have the responsibility to ensure
the appropriate upkeep of our treasured architecturally-designed buildings.”

“They make a lot of noise all the time,” explained Sydney Rockwell ’12, a resident of the dorm. “In comparison
to the other buildings, Cannon is just not as nice.”
