2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Kesey Lilley
News Editor

Her first thought: “Thank God I’m alive.” Dr. Haleh Esfandiari was on the way to the Tehran, Iran airport to
fly back to the United States after visiting her mother on December 30, 2006, when her car was forced to
the side of the road. Three men jumped out, brandishing knives, and began searching through Esfandiari’s car and luggage, taking
her US and Iranian passports with them. At first, Esfandiari believed that she had been the random victim of a
robbery. She went the next day to get a new passport but quickly realized that the “robbery” was not as
it seemed. What started as a “random” crime quickly turned into a lengthy ordeal when Esfandiari was arrested on charges
of intending to overthrow the Iranian regime. After her release in 2007, Esfandiari returned to the US to write her
book, “My Prison, My Home.”

An Iranian-American scholar, Esfandiari came to the US in 1980 and taught at Princeton University before becoming the Director of
the Middle East program at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington, D.C. It was this past summer that Anna Van
Hollen ’12 worked for her; Esfandiari’s visit to Davidson was the result of Van Hollen’s work on behalf of Justice
Dialogues, a student-run organization that promotes discussions of issues regarding justice.

Back to 2007. Esfandiari became suspicious of the “robbery” on her way to the airport while she was applying for
a new passport. She said that the questioning she was subjected to was not standard; rather, she was asked questions
about her family, her husband’s religion, and her salary. When she received a phone call telling her to report to
a particular address, Esfandiari realized she was being summoned to the Iranian Intelligence Ministry. After reporting for the first time,
Esfandiari was required to return for questioning that lasted eight hours a day for eight months. The reason? “To find
out how the United States intend[ed] to overthrow the regime in Iran,” she explained. Though Iranian Intelligence was not worried
about a direct U.S. invasion, it was very concerned with the prospect of a “soft rebellion,” or promoting the idea
of a regime change without playing a direct role.

Esfandiari explained that the interrogators kept asking about a “hidden agenda” of academics in the U.S.; they believed that the
U.S. government had universities like Harvard, MIT, and Stanford at their “beck and call” and intended to promote the idea
of a regime change in Iran. After providing no intelligence to the Iranian government, Esfandiari was served with an arrest
warrant on May 2, 2007. She was to be transported to the infamous Evin prison. “For a brief moment, I
was paralyzed,” she said. “I had read about people being tortured in Evin, people being killed, people disappearing. I was
familiar with the notoriety of the prison.” Esfandiari was allowed a brief phone call to her mother and was then
transported, blindfolded, into a single cell. For three months, Esfandiari was held in solitary confinement, in which she lost 20
pounds and slept on a stone floor.

After months of the same routine, Esfandiari said she had accepted her fate. “[I]f I started thinking about my life,
I knew I would fall apart,” she said. “I didn’t want to give them the joy [of seeing me broken].”
On Sep. 2, 2007, Esfandiari was suddenly given her passport and told to leave the country immediately, which she happily
did.

Among the harsh conditions, Esfandiari noted a few light moments. Once, while under house arrest, four men broke into and
searched Esfandiari’s mother’s house before taking her laptop. Upon finding wrapping paper, they accused Esfandiari of using invisible ink to
secretly message the Americans; her Skype phone used for video chatting, they thought, must have been used to send coded
messages to the American government. Despite being able to laugh at instances such as these, Esfandiari looks back on the
experience with mixed feelings. “I am in love with the flora and fauna of Iran,” she said. “I’m also upset
and disappointed that they did this to me. [It leaves] a bitter taste for me, but I think my love
for Iran surpasses [this experience].”

Esfandiari reflects on her experience from a deeply personal perspective. “I learned to value and cherish freedom and the rule
of law. It is terrible to live in countries where you are dependent on the rule of people.”

Ndiaye brings questions of race in France to campus

Jesse Johnson
Staff Writer

Last Monday, Dr. Pap Ndiaye visited Davidson to lecture about his findings on race relations in France. After teaching for
several years in France, Ndiaye taught at the University of Virginia for one year, and then taught at theUniversity of
Pennsylvania for three years. He is currently teaching at the School for Advanced Studies in France, with the majority of
his work focusing on the history of race relations. His work concentrates on and questions the history of blacks in
the U.S. and in France. Ndiaye is the author of several books, including “Nylon and Bombs: DuPont and the March
of Modern America” (2007) and “The Black Condition: An Essay on a French Minority” (2008). Ndiaye explained that many observers
of race relations in France seem to have recently discovered blacks. The French do not collect statistics on racial minorities,
claiming themselves to be colorblind. For example, when filling out forms, there is no section to self-identify oneself as black,
as would be possible for an African-American in the United States. Ndiaye has recently stepped aside from teaching history to
look more in depth into the issues presented for French blacks, the once almost nonexistent group in France. He mentioned
that the black population in France remained small up until World War I (WWI), when there were only about 5,000
black citizens living in France, mostly in Paris. African American soldiers came to France in 1917 and when the war
ended in 1918, many stayed. Ndiaye explained that in addition to WWI, in the 1960s the arrival of African migrants
and Senegal workers was encouraged by agreements signed by the French. Thus, by the mid-1970s, there were over half a
million blacks living in France. At this point, the French closed their borders to non-European migrants. However, in the 1980s,
women and children were allowed into the country, encouraging a continued significant increase in the black population in France. Ndiaye
then went on to talk about his conviction that there exists no strong black community in France. He interviewed one
French black child who stated, “I like black Americans: they’re proud of who they are. I'd like to visit America,
but they have their problems.” Ndiaye shared this sense of what kind of impression some French blacks may have of
the United States’ African American community. “The experience of race is not the same for every black person,” he stated.
While the government in France might be “colorblind,” the French-Blacks still face discrimination. Many of them go to England, Canada,
and even the United States to find work. After his initial research, Ndiaye wanted to do a study, one that
the French government has never conducted. He fulfilled the first quantitative study on black citizens in France, with 13 groups
of people consisting of 1,000 persons each. He learned that of those people, 581 of them declared themselves Black or
“Mestizo,” a person of mixed racial ancestry. Ndiaye explained some of his data. He asked the 581 self-identified blacks if
they considered themselves a minority, since the concept of visible minorities is a common expression used to designate persons who
aren’t considered white. However, 90.2 percent of those he questioned did not consider themselves a minority. Ndiaye’s findings would suggest
that 4% of the French population considers themselves to be black. Of these individuals, 75 percent declare French as their
background and most of them have their citizenship in France. Nineteen percent of the population are what Ndiaye called “foreigners,”
or non-naturalized immigrants; however, Ndiaye suspects that this number is most likely higher, as he felt that not everyone was
honest, due to fear of being deported. Six percent of the population consider themselves of a double nationality. Ndiaye reported
that 20 percent of French black individuals have no education. A significant number of black French citizens have a low-paying
job, estimated at about 45 percent, 35 percent for those of mixed race. Ndiaye explained that even those who have
university degrees aren’t finding jobs, and many of them resort to security jobs or leaving the country, mostly due to
discrimination. When Ndiaye asked the 581 individuals he was working with if they’ve faced discrimination, 56 percent of them reported
that they have, whereas 19 percent reported that they sometimes did. Discrimination in public spaces has the highest rating occurrence,
with 62 percent reporting, followed by the workplace, with 42 percent. When a student asked Ndiaye if the problem of
discrimination is more vivid in the United States or France he replied, “In the 1920s African American soldiers married French
women without problems, which would not have happened here (in the southern States).” Interracial couples are a common thing in
France, but Ndiaye does not consider that to be the case in the United States. Ndiaye, who is married to
a white woman, told his audience that when he would walk around with his wife in the United States he
would get looks from those passing by, something that does not happen in France. Ndiaye is determined for French blacks
to be recognized officially, rather than remaining an invisible population. “French blacks want to be visible and invisible,” he stated.
