Davison HEMP CLUB LOOKING TO RENOVATE THE MATH CENTER SEE PAGE 3

SOPHOMORE ASKS PROSPIE TO SEMI-FORMAL SEE PAGE 10

30 HOUR FAMINE, A.K.A. RAN OUT OF MEAL PLAN ON THURSDAY SEE PAGE 2

OT APPLICANTS TO UNDERGO SEXUAL PREDATOR SCREENING SEE PAGE 5

AREA MAN MOVES OUT OF AREA SEE PAGE 4

YOU OF THE WEEK SEARCH: “PING PONG CELEBRATION”

THE YOWL

Your Davidson Honor

Section Editors: Alex Greening, Nick Nolte
Writers: Peter Bruton, Brett Chikowski, Amanda Ottaway

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

THE NON-FICTION ISSUE

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER
April 1, 2009

Senior Citizen Denied Social Security Due to Facebook Pictures

New York—John Encitas likes to party. A brief glance at his Facebook profile makes this pretty obvious. He can be
seen drinking, dancing, or exhibiting lewd and unsavory behavior in almost every picture. His favorite musical artists include Van Halen,
Kiss, and Kool Moe Dee. John Encitas is also 91 years young.

“He can be seen drinking, dancing, or exhibiting lewd and unsavory behavior...”

Mr. Encitas’ behavior has finally caught up with him. While school officials usually warn students of the repercussions of Facebook,
Encitas never thought this would apply to him. Employers can weed out job applicants by surfing Facebook photos. Now the
U.S. government is taking the same approach.

“I haven’t worked in 15 years, and one day Uncle Sam pulls the plug. This is un-American! I should be
allowed to enjoy my golden years with all the malt liquor and marijuana I want,” said Encitas, who does not
have glaucoma. A spokesperson for the local Social Security branch said they reserve the right to review applicants and, furthermore,
Mr. Encitas’ behavior is “deplorable.”

This case represents a great change occurring on “the Book.” Most younger members on Facebook find it a bit creepy
that 50+ relatives and random third cousins, who blew their hand off at the last Fourth of July picnic, want
to be a part of this online community.

Ennui, Despair Prevail at ‘Counter-Cup’

Armour Street—Each Spring, the frattiest students Davidson College has to offer board buses for the Carolina Cup in Camden, SC.
The day is spent in Madras cloth and a state of shameful intoxication, and usually coincides with a horse race
(it is estimated that less than 3% of guests actually know about the horses). However, bad weather forecasts deterred many
from going to the frat fest and instead holding their own, more sensitive fête, the Emo Cup.

Instead of seersucker and sundresses, the Emo Cup featured skin-tight jeans. “Emos” paint on heavy eyeliner to symbolize their devotion
to the dark arts and terrible music. Their hair is typically plastered to their head with gel so when they
dance it doesn’t get in the way. The standard emo dance consists of throwing one’s arms and legs around in
fits of rage, in the hope of collisions and resultant bodily harm.

This year’s Emo Cup was so successful, event coordinators are considering renting the Carolina Cup buses for next year. They
will find “authenticity” by getting dropped off in front of the movie theater and slouching around all Friday evening in
Birkdale.

91-year-old Encitas shows no signs of slowing down

Obama Threatens to Fine Auto Industry Unless it Stops Losing Money

Detroit—President BarackObama has given many companies in the auto industry just a few weeks to comply with the fine print
of the government bailout plan. GM has been given a month and Chrysler has 60 days to follow President Obama’s
strict guidelines. The plans are simple: incorporate eco-friendly cars and stop losing money. “If you don’t create a viable vehicle
to transport tourists to and from the moon you will face bankruptcy. If you can’t make an amphibious tank that
runs on its own nuclear reactor affordable to even the lower class, you don’t deserve government aid. If you don’t
make the Transformers affordable to all Americans, we will let you go bankrupt. If you don’t create a viable vehicle
to transport tourists to and from the moon you will face bankruptcy. Also, please stop losing money,” said Obama in
a recent press conference.

These developments have caused quite a debate amongst industry giants. Recently, the CFO of Chrysler resigned saying, “These demands are
impossible. Transformers Megatron was a movie, Obama's personal favorite, and that technology doesn’t even exist!” Obama, on the Cadillac line,
said, “Year after year, decade after
