THE BLOTTER ISSUE WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2009

GREEK WEEK COMPETITION HEATS UP WITH “SMALLEST ARMS” CONTEST

SEE PAGE 3

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

Greek Week April 22, 2009

THE DAVIDSONIAN

TIK1, TRK1, LET’S GET FREAKY: HO, HUM, THAT SOUNDS DUMB

SEE PAGE 10

Davidson—Due to the size of the Class of 2013, RLO is facing a serious housing crisis. It appears that there are literally not enough rooms on campus to accommodate all students. RLO insists that they do not want to alter the freshmen experience and as a result, a group of rising sophomores have no housing at the moment. But unbeknownst to many, RLO has been testing a number of solutions that should provide adequate housing for all students.

Last semester’s “Do It In the Dark” sleepover on the Chambers lawn in tents was actually a social experiment with very real consequences for participating students. RLO would ideally like those students to rent tents from Davidson Outdoors for the entirety of the next academic year. While this may seem unconventional, it will also serve as the derelict themed hall. RLO Director Joseph Fitzgerald commented, “We hope to convert the 900 room into a female quad. Things might get a little awkward during Live Thursdays but the girls can deal with it.”

Tom Ross was unusually excited to have sophomores sleep over at his house every weekend. Ross stated emphatically, “The first person to fall asleep is a weiner!” Visitors will have to vote on watching either “10 Things I Hate About You” or “A Walk to Remember.” Rumors of pillow-fight mixers with Fifth Cannon residents have yet to be confirmed.

Many students also have been found sleeping in the library.

Here at the Yowl, we pride ourselves on excellence in reporting, often on events and occurrences that ordinarily escape the public eye. Our staff is committed 110% to bringing you, our reader, the most up-to-date information regarding all the insignificant happenings on campus and elsewhere. Reporting the news is no small task. The endless interviews and investigations we must undertake after long periods of travel can be taxing. The Yowl staff has found that one of the best releases from these pressures is the pleasure of reading. We are proud to present to you a Yowl favorite of the highest literary caliber. Its genius lies in its universality: everybody poops.

Ode to the Public Restroom

Toilet paper on the seat
Sometimes there are drops of water or other things, and it gets wet in patches
But you really gotta go, so you have no choice but to sit down.
A powerful rush of synchronized peeing
Like a waterfall
Or eerily eccentric music.
Hopefully you don’t have to take a dump, because if you do, you know she’ll be listening in the next stall.

CONNECTION TO SOMALI PIRATES

SEE PAGE 5And judging you. Not traditionally a hall, the site — library, which should also provide housing. Even though she poops too, sometimes, she will be included with the Cannon. Fitzgerald commented, “People already sleep on those library couches. There are two beds right there.” RLO North Carolina’s temperate climate will continue to use its creativity to accommodate all students seeking on-campus housing, especially if it smells a little funny.

SPRING FROLICS: Flush with your foot, open the door of the stall while you fasten your belt. Look at yourself in the mirror, turn your head from side to side, touch your hair, and lean in. Make a face and a noise of disgust. Someone on your left is doing the same thing. But you don’t really know her, so you smile awkwardly into the mirror and hope she sees you, because if not, it just looks like you’re admiring your reflection. She smiles back, and you both emit slurred guttural squeaks that sort of sound like the word “hi,” which is how unacquainted girls say hello to each other in situations like this. You look back at yourself in the mirror and continue to scrub your hands. You’re pretty sure they have to be clean by now.

You both make a move for the paper towel rack at the same time. Boom. She stumbles backward to let you go first. You mumble something that’s supposed to be “Thanks.” You get there, and it seems to be stuck. You struggle with it. She says, “Oh, is it stuck?” You say, “Yup.” You both titter uncomfortably. You wipe your hands on the seat of your pants and walk out as quickly as possible, hoping she will not be heading in the same direction. You wait outside for her to leave, pretending to be on the phone, then sneak back in to excrete your fecal matter in peace.

Your Davidson Honor Section Editors:
Alex Greening

Writers:
Brett Chikowski
Peter Bruton
Amanda Ottaway

Note: The Yow! is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.