12 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2009

Baseball takes 2 of 3 at Samford | Exclusive Interview with Bob McKillop

The Davidsonian sat down with Men’s Basketball Coach Bob McKillop to review the 2008-09 season and examine prospects for the year ahead.

Wildcats sweep doubleheader, improve to 7-5 in SoCon

TAN QUACH
Staff Writer

The Davidson baseball team took two of three games in a Southern Conference battle against Samford in Birmingham, Alabama this past weekend. The Wildcats dropped the opening game on Friday 6-4, but they bounced back on Saturday with 10-9 and 4-1 wins to secure the series. With the series, the team edged closer to that elusive .500 mark; Davidson is now 12-13 overall and 7-5 in SoCon play.

Davidson began the weekend slowly, losing 6-4 on Friday. Pat Brady ’09 hit well in the loss, finishing two for four with a home run and Ian Horkley ’11 pitched four and one-third scoreless innings out of the bullpen to keep the ’Cats in the game. Despite these performances, Davidson was unable to surmount the Samford lead and was held scoreless over the final five frames.

Davidson captured a 10-9 victory in their first game Saturday. The team led 10-5 entering the eighth inning, but had to buckle down to put away Samford’s late inning rally and secure the win. Mike Frongello ’11 earned the win, tossing one inning of scoreless relief, and Matt Webb ’09 entered the game in the ninth to halt the Samford rally and save his third game this year. Webb induced a fly-out to left and a grounder to second to finish off the game. Five Wildcats had two hits in the first game, propelling the team to 10 runs on 14 hits. Zach Kayne ’09 set the tone atop the batting order, going three for five with two runs and two RBIs. Kayne propelled a three-run first inning for the Wildcats, setting the tone for the rest of the game. Brady, Chase Fitzpatrick ’09, Seth Freeman ’12 and James Cerbie ’12 joined Kayne with multi-hit games. Brady and Freeman both went deep to hit their seventh and fifth home runs of the season, respectively.

The final game of the series was a pitching battle between Webb and Samford’s Andrew Jones. Webb tossed six and one-third innings, giving up one run on five hits while his counterpart pitched eight and two-thirds innings giving up four runs. “The series win was important because it showed the resiliency of the team and gives us momentum for the next couple of series,” Zach Kayne ’09 said.

Samford drew first blood in the game, going ahead 1-0 with a home run to left field in the bottom of the sixth. That was the last run Samford earned against the tough Davidson staff. The Davidson bullpen combination of Mac Read ’11, Frongello and Matt Sliwiak ’11 shut out Samford over the final two and two-thirds innings.

Not one Davidson batter managed a multi-hit game in the nightcap. The first Davidson run came in the eighth inning after Graham Chapman ’09 singled to second base and Kayne sent him home with a two-run home run. Kayne’s bomb gave Davidson the lead for good. Calvin Sigelbaum ’12 added a two-run single through the right side of the infield to provide insurance runs in the top of the ninth.

Davidson returns to the diamond today, hosting Gardner Webb on Stars & Stripes Day at 6 p.m. at Wilson Field. Stars & Stripes Day will feature an exciting eating contest, taking place on the field. Davidson hopes to continue their solid SoCon play with a victory as they also look forward to a weekend series against SoCon opponent, The Citadel.

The Davidsonian: There have been reports that the SouthernHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Conference is considering moving the championship tournament to Charlotte in 2010 and that Davidson College officials have been involved in pushing for such a move. Can you comment on the school’s involvement and what the prospects for moving the tournament are?

Coach McKillop: The Charlotte Regional Business Authority has proposed that the tournament be moved to Charlotte. The Southern Conference under the direction of [Commissioner] John Iamarino, as well as conjunctive with Jim Murphy, our Athletic Director, and Scott Applegate, our Assistant Athletic Director, has been looking at a presentation from them. And they are in the process of making a presentation to the Southern Conference Athletic Directors and Presidents at the conference meetings at the end of May.

D: I understood that the tournament was scheduled to be in Chattanooga again next year. But it is possible that the tournament would be moved to Charlotte next year?

CM: From what I understand they’re investigating the possibility of moving it to Charlotte in 2010.

D: How significantly has being the coach of this program changed over the past year?

CM: What jumps off the page immediately to me is the way we have been received by our...

See McKillop, page 10

---

Barr, ’Cats to hold charity tournament ‘Nothing but Nets’

Will benefit malaria prevention group

Ray Francis - Staff Writer

On May 3, Davidson Wildcats’ basketball player Bryant Barr ’10 will headline a 3-on-3 tournament in the Baker Sports Complex on May 3. The tournament will support Nothing but Nets, an organization dedicated to preventing the spread of malaria in Africa.

Nothing but Nets was founded in 2006 by the United Nations Foundation. It attempts to prevent the spread of malaria by purchasing mosquito nets for African families. Mosquitoes are the primary method by which the disease is spread. Malaria is the leading killer of children in Africa and affects 500 million people worldwide. Because of the poverty endemic in many at-risk regions in Africa, it is estimated that only one in 20 people own a protective net.

The tournament will be split into three divisions. The first will be comprised of third and fourth graders, the second of fifth and sixth graders with the final division to consist of seventh and eighth graders. The registration fee of $50 pays for five mosquito nets. As an added incentive, the team raising the most money in each division will also have the opportunity to choose first in a draft of Wildcat basketball players to serve as coaches for the teams. The winners of each division will receive T-shirts from Nothing but Nets as well as a fly-swatter themed trophy.

Bryant Barr ’10 and the Davidson basketball team will hold a 3-on-3 basketball charity tournament on May 3 in Belk Arena.

---

Two auctions will take place in the week preceding the tournament. An online auction will begin on April 26 and last until 4 p.m. on May 3. Items in this auction include a jersey signed by star point guard Stephen Curry ’10, a jersey signed...

See Nets, page 10

---

Zach Kayne ’09

BASEBALL

ROSWELL, GEORGIA

The senior shortstop batted .417 (5-12) in the Wildcats’ series win at Samford this weekend, including two home runs. Kayne’s second home run came with the ’Cats trailing 1-0 in the 8th inning of the third game. His two-run homer propelled Davidson to a 4-1 victory. Kayne is hitting .379 with seven home runs on the season.

---

Martin breaks school record in triple jump... again

At this weekend’s Liberty Collegiate Invitational, Kennesia Martin ’09 broke her own school record in the triple jump with a mark of 11.78 meters. Martin's performance earned her second place in the event and bested her previous record jump of 11.70 meters set at the Charlotte 49er Classic two weeks ago.