THE CONTAGIOUS ISSUE
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2009

Tila TEQUILA INHERITS RIHANNA’S CURSE
SEE PAGE 3

SAFE RIDE VAN: A DUMPY VERSION OF THE VAMANOS?
SEE PAGE 2

FOOTBALL: IMPROVING FOR HOMECOMING ‘‘A POSSIBILITY’’
SEE PAGE 4

BLUE, PINK MOUTH FLU MASKS TO COMPETE WITH POPULAR SNUGGIE
SEE PAGE 5

SENIORS IN CATS CONNECT: COUGAR SEASON!
SEE PAGE 8

THE YOWL
Your Davidson Humor Section

Editor: Alex Greening
Writers: Peter Bruton, Amanda Ottaway, Brian Park, Lauren Odomirok, Jess Wentling

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

Deal with it re Flu on Davidson Campus

Davidson Health Center - a new trend is emerging in student injuries. Bruised knees, flushed cheeks, and leaves in one’s
hair are not signs of a lovers’ tryst in the bushes but the results of avoiding unpleasant social situations. Freshman
Mitch Wiese threw himself in front of a golf cart after a particularly embarrassing night in the sophomore apartments.

“Diving under a park bench really works,” attests Helen Richards '12. “Except for the grass stains and bruises on my
legs, I’m fine. I didn’t have to speak with him.”

Originally baffled by these symptoms, health workers soon realized that another season of drunken hookups had begun. “It came a
little early this year and we weren’t exactly ready for it,” admits nurse Stacy Gunkel. “I think this year it
could become an epidemic and First Night Down is still a week away.”

Students have noticed too. “I saw some unusual behavior,” said Joe Conway, who witnessed a friend’s accident. “Walking quickly, looking
at the ground, trying not to make eye contact... I thought maybe he was schizophrenic, but then I realized it
was all because he saw that girl from last night come into Commons.”

Other witnesses report a shortening of the breath, a reddening of the cheeks, and general deer-in-the-headlights behavior in the subject
before he or she leapt sideways into a solid wall or came crashing to the ground under a park bench.
The health department asks that anyone who observes these precursory symptoms in a friend to kindly grab him or her
and prevent them from falling down the stairs of Chambers in their social confusion.

The Center for Disease Control officially added “Awkwardness” to its list of contagious diseases especially prevalent among college students, and
the Davidson Health Center intends to take serious measures to protect its students.

Questionably Breaks Hiring Freeze

The English Department has hired legendary competitive eating champion Takeru Kobayashi to fill a recent vacancy. While he will be
teaching Creative Writing and Early British Literature, he will also be participating in the hot dog eating contest sponsored by
the Varsity Field Hockey team. The English staff have finished dead last for the past two years but their latest
addition should help them turn the tide.

The head of the English Department Robert Shields said, “Kobayashi will bring a wealth of knowledge and experience to our
faculty. While he doesn’t have the traditional qualifications such as a Ph.D. or any teaching experience, accusations flew that the
English department only hired Kobayashi to help them win the hot dog eating contest. Shields responded in a public statement
saying, “That is preposterous. I can’t think of anyone better to lead the Faulkner Seminar.” However, a few other comments
Shields made were picked up.ence, he will still be a great asset.” At the last faculty meeting, allegedly said, “I
can’t wait to see the Physics Department go down. They have ruled the roost for too long.” There are reports
that the Classics department is looking to sign American Joey Chestnut. The Classics department has not released any statements, but
Chestnut reportedly taught a 2-Year Humes course last week. This weekend’s should be one of the most exciting Hot Dog
eating contests yet.

Social Malady Rival Rivals Swine | Student Celebs | Hog Spotlight |

Davidson College has a quickly increasing number of new celebrities on campus this semester. Vail Commons has chosen these students
through a random selection process involving the recipients of a gourmet type of bacon, and these lucky young men and
women are living the suite life these days. They have been moved to President Ross’s mansion on Main Street, where
they exist under a veil of secrecy and are attended to daily by a number of regular students who use
the opportunity as a work-study program.

“My professors all told me to stop doing my homework,” bragged freshman Wilbur Swynn. “The New York Times called me
today for an exclusive interview. We’re all on first-name terms with the reporters at Good Morning America, too.” Paparazzi have
been known to camp out in the front yard, hoping to capture every sneeze and sniffle of these new, high-profile
students.

“My professors all told me to stop doing my homework,” added junior Rose Hamm. “They told me I should just
sleep all the time and let people bring me things. I’m OK with that.” At press time, the number of
students living this mysterious celebrity life was expected to triple by next week, for unknown reasons. The random selection process
will continue. No doubt every student still hopes he or she will be next.

Major Disappointment: The Yowl’s Handy Guide

Major: Sociology

Reasons why people choose this major: White man’s guilt; to try and have something in common with Steph Curry; not
good enough for pre-med.

Where they study abroad: Sometimes, inner-city neighborhoods, third-world countries, and generally anywhere where parasites are prevalent. Usually Cancun.

Career options: Pretentious documentary filmmaker; Sociology teacher; whatever your rich father does.

Why people avoid this major: They would rather do something productive with their time.

Description: Sociology majors are people who want others to think they care. They drone endlessly on about all the people
who were, and currently are, horribly oppressed by the bourgeoisie WASP males: Native Americans, African Americans, Hispanics, Asians, Persians, Polish
Americans, Irish Americans, Italian Americans, Jews, Muslims, Catholics, Buddhists, Hindus, Sikhs, Baha’is, and women. After learning about how marginalized some
people in America are, Sociology majors work hard to teach the general public. The study of sociology, in fact, does
not make one more sociable.
