THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, February 18, 2009

Grammy nominee explores traditional, modern

Jon WOLF Staff Writer

Ursula Oppens made an immediate connection with her audience in Tyler-Tallman Hall last Thursday evening as she strode confidently onstage behind her warm, maternal smile. Her stark lack of hubris was also apparent even before she sat before the Hamburg Steinway. After a short introduction of her first piece, Oppens’ playing reminded the small group of onlookers that they were indeed in the presence of a two-time Grammy nominee.

It is perhaps true, traditionally speaking, that the “best” recitals are those in which the instrumentalist executes his or her program as faithfully to the composer as possible, missing no notes, exhibiting flawless form and not allowing his or her presence onstage to detract from the music in any way. Oppens clearly could have done this—and certainly she has many times in her career—but she chose a slightly different approach for her recital on our campus, and this choice made her performance an especially enjoyable one for the listener.

Often it is said that a world-class athlete or musician will make their task “look easy” to those watching, as though they could do it in their sleep. Oppens’ musicianship instead constantly serves to remind the listener just how difficult it is to perform at her level. Her audience felt the constant thrill of seeing someone play as hard as they possibly could, squeezing every bit of dynamics and expression from the piece that her own limitations would allow. Rather than leave the show saying “she played all of that perfectly,” this audience left knowing that she played her program with everything she had, with complete passion and commitment, and this approach left a profound effect.

The most striking component of Oppens’ musicianship is her intensity. She gives the impression that a piano key could not be depressed with more force. It is the surprise of seeing such an immediately amicable and approachable lady play with such ferocity which makes her memorable. Most instrumental instructors tell their students that they must be as relaxed as possible to play fast, but Oppens showed that dedication and experience have allowed her the virtuosic ability to play both blindingly fast and incredibly forcefully at the same time. Think of the intensity with which Stevie Ray Vaughan is known for having played the electric guitar: this is her approach to concert hall piano.

Oppens is known for programming traditional and contemporary pieces together in her shows, and her recital here was no exception. She began with Beethoven’s Fantasy in G Minor/B Major, Opus 77, which he composed in 1809. As she introduced it, the piece sounds almost improvisatory, feeling its way from the key of G Minor to eventually settle in B Major. The early stages of the composition are marked by extremely fast cascading lines which are choppily broken by short dissonant chords. Next was Chopin’s Ballade Number Three in A-Flat Major, Opus 47, composed in 1841, which is also a kind of fantasy. John Corigliano’s Etude Fantasy, composed in 1976 for the United States’ Bicentennial, provided a modern check to Beethoven and Chopin. The piece’s first half is played with only the left hand, though it sounds like both are hard at work. Ranging from sparse to metallically thunderous, Etude Fantasy is a dissonant and expressionist departure from what is commonly thought of as “patriotic” music.

After a brief intermission, Oppens continued with Corigliano’s Fantasia on an Ostinato, which borrowed its ostinato from the Second Movement of Beethoven’s Seventh Symphony. This is the connection which inspired her to place Corigliano’s works alongside Beethoven’s in the program.

Fantasia on ‘Ghost Sonata’ haunts Barber Theatre

Monique McINTOSH Staff Writer

Only the second production in the newly renovated Barber Theatre, “The Ghost Sonata” continues the old Black Box tradition of dark and intimate theatre. Written by August Strindberg in 1907, “The Ghost Sonata” is a German chamber play following the encounter between a young student named Arkenholz and the intriguing inhabitants of a stylish apartment in Stockholm. Arkenholz, with help from a mysterious old man named Jacob Hummel, gains entrance into the apartment and revels in its monstrous atmosphere of ghosts, mummiesand vampires. Yet both characters eventually face betrayal and misery in the hellish realities that lie within the apartment. This year’s student director, Steve Foglia '09, first read the strange play as an assignment freshman year and became fascinated by its “grotesque gallery of characters” and insight into human hardship and empathy. “The student character comes in as the classic naive young man who is in love with the house; it’s like Disneyland to him,” said Foglia. “Yet as he goes deeper, he eventually realizes that everything he has been in love with is diseased from the inside. It sounds harsh, but the play’s real core is about compassion—that you have to have compassion for the people who are suffering.”

Despite the play’s surreal world, Foglia insists that it has a comedic side that can be found in characters such as a massive and gluttonous vampire cook and a Colonel’s wife transformed into a mummy that lives in a closet. “There’s Horror, Romance, Comedy. One rehearsal the cast decided to purposely overact all the lines,” said Foglia. “We were then really able to discover the real humor in the play. It’s a pretty dark, weird comedy. Dr. Gardner [Professor of Theatre and faculty advisor] said the other day that the play is the kind of thing where you laugh for a little while, then you realize how terrifying it really is.”

In keeping with the traditional intimate atmosphere of the Second Stage performances, audiences will be able to completely submerge themselves into the play’s dreamlike reality. The audience will get to sit on the floor of the stage space, literally propped among the actors. “We’ve tried to make this [staging] arrangement pretty tight,” said Foglia. “About thirty to forty students will get to sit right in the stage area. This play really is a nightmare and I want people to walk into it and fully experience that. It really depends on the audience for the play to come to life.”

This student-directed production also seeks to encourage and inspire more student involvement in theatre productions. “New blood is good,” said Foglia. “I want the students to be watching the play and become inspired to try it out for themselves.” The small cast includes four underclassmen acting in their first Davidson production, including Will Ames '11, who plays the lead role of the student Arkenholz. Student Carolyn Bryan '12 also designed all the costumes for the play. Music major Mario Silva '09 composed original music for the Davidson production (music in the original “Ghost Sonata” was arranged by August Strindberg). Deciding to create an original score marks the overall artistic freedom felt by cast and crew. “The play is so theatrical,” Foglia said. “[It’s] a playground that really allows us to invent what’s there. The most rewarding thing about this experience has been to work in an atmosphere of creative people who just love their work and are so dedicated to the play.”

The combination of student artistic freedom and a rich dynamic text promises to create a unique experience for Davidson audiences. “We hope to put on a show that’s otherworldly and gripping, that sometimes people won’t know what’s going on, but they won’t be able to take their eyes away from it,” said Foglia. “The Ghost Sonata” runs from Feb. 18 to 21 at 7:30 p.m. in Barber Theatre in the Cunningham Theatre Center.

An Ostinato was played with more relaxed posture than Etude Fantasy, but was every bit as modern and dissonant. The piece builds like a train accelerating to a wreck, then falls off into a sparse and almost pastoral conclusion. Having read both Corigliano pieces from sheet music, Oppens played her final piece from memory. Beethoven’s Eroica Variations, written in 1802, felt far more consonant, melodic and accessible than the Corigliano pieces, but the technical skill, speed and dexterity displayed in its playing were simply astounding. Oppens has played with the New York Philharmonic and in Carnegie Recital Hall, among an incredibly long list of superlatives. She returns to New York to continue giving piano lessons and teaching as Distinguished Professor of Music at Brooklyn College and at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York.