Curry’s 32 lead Wildcats past South Carolina in first round NIT play

Davidson now faces Australian star Patty Mills and St. Mary's (CA)

Ray Francis
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats extended their season last night with a dramatic 70-63 victory over the South Carolina Gamecocks in the opening round of the NIT. Stephen Curry ’10 led the Wildcats with 32 points, including 5-9 from three-point range. Andrew Lovedale ’09 chipped in 17 points and nine rebounds while Will Archambault ’10 added eight points and six rebounds. Devan Downey led South Carolina with 18 points.

The game was sloppy and disorganized, with 51 fouls and 37 turnovers creating a choppy feel to the game as neither team was able to pull away in the second half after the Gamecocks erased an early 11-point deficit. Both teams were guilty, as Davidson committed 19 turnovers and 24 fouls to South Carolina’s 18 turnovers and 27 fouls. Not even the coaches were safe from the whistles, as Gamecock coach Darrin Horn received a technical foul with 8:40 to play after vehemently criticizing the officials. Curry’s two foul shots gave Davidson a 55-51 lead, part of an 11-4 spurt that broke a 51-all tie and gave Davidson the lead for good. Archambault’s lay-up gave Davidson a 62-55 lead with five minutes to play. South Carolina cut the margin to five twice in the closing minutes, but Curry scored his team’s final eight points to account for the final margin.

The Wildcats started the game on fire, streaking out to a 25-14 lead with five minutes to play in the first half. Curry picked up his second foul on the next possession, however, and without him Davidson gave up a 12-3 run to end the half and ended up clinging to a 28-26 edge at the intermission. The Gamecocks continued their momentum in the second half, grabbing a 44-43 lead on Downey’s lay-up with 13 minutes to play. After a timeout, Curry buried a deep three to restore Davidson to a two-point edge. South Carolina would tie the game twice more, but would never regain the lead. Davidson broke the final tie (51-51) on Lovedale’s lay-up before Horn’s technical foul gave Davidson just enough momentum to bring the game home.

Foul trouble dogged both teams throughout the second half, as Davidson lost starters Stephen Rossiter ’10 and Max Paulhus Gosselin ’09 for the majority of the second half after each picked up his fourth foul early in the second session. However, the Wildcats ultimately benefitted from the close officiating in the second half, as South Carolina was whistled for 14 fouls over the final 16 minutes against four on Davidson over the same time. Dan Nelms ’10 was the only Wildcat not to commit a foul, having played only six minutes. The only Gamecock not to commit a foul was Robert Wilder, who was credited with a single minute of action. Twelve of the remaining 17 players were charged with at least three fouls. Interestingly, Rossiter and Zam Frederick of South Carolina were the only players to actually foul out.

Davidson nearly threw away its chance to win with poor foul shooting. The Wildcats shot only 16-30 from the charity stripe for the game, or 53 percent. Davidson managed to out-shoot the Gamecocks from the floor, shooting 47.1 percent (24-51) to their opponents’ 37.5 percent (21-56). The Wildcats also owned a significant edge in assists, recording 16 to South Carolina’s seven.

The loss ended South Carolina’s ten-game winning streak in the NIT. The Gamecocks had won the tournament in 2005 and 2006. It also ended South Carolina’s eight-game winning streak over Davidson, which reduced its deficit in the all-time series between the two clubs to 39-26. Davidson also handed South Carolina its third home loss of the season.

The victory ensured that Curry’s spectacular career as a Wildcat will continue for at least one more game. He has been named a finalist for the Wooden Award and Naismith Awards, both awards for the national player of the year. He has also been named a First Team All-American by the Sporting News and the U.S. Basketball Writers Association. He has yet to comment on whether or not he will enter the NBA Draft after the season.

The Wildcats will return to action later this week against St. Mary’s on the west coast after the Gaels defeated Washington State 68-57 on Tuesday night. Patty Mills scored 27 points to lead three Gaels in double figures.

For more NIT Coverage, see page 11

The DavidsonianWEDNESDAY, March 18, 2009 photo by Lee Kayne © | Chase Fitzpatrick '09 went 2-5 at the plate including a two-run home run in the eighth inning in the Wildcats’ 7-1 win over Elon.

Middour silences Elon
By Tan Qua
Staff Writer

The Davidson men’s baseball team toppled Elon, the SoCon preseason favorite, 7-1 Friday night at Elon University’s Latham Park. Elon struggled to tally three base hits on Friday night against the stifling Davidson pitching staff. The Davidson lineup equaled this total in home runs, belting three to fuel their dominating performance. The victory cemented Davidson as a serious contender in the Southern Conference. Davidson avenged Elon’s three-game sweep of the Wildcats last year. The Wildcats are now only one SoCon win away from equaling last year’s four total conference wins and have moved to an overall record of 8-6 with the win.

Thomas Middour '10 picked up the win for the Wildcats, allowing only one run on two hits in six and two-thirds innings. Middour was a horse for the Davidson staff, tossing 111 pitches in the victory. Mike Frongello '11 and Matt Webb '09 finished off the game with two and two-thirds of solid relief, only giving up one run on a solo shot by Melillo in the bottom of the eighth. Centerfielder Brett Shore '09 led the attack, going three for six at the number two spot in the lineup. Drew Gadaire '12, Chase Fitzpatrick '09, Chris Fitzpatrick '09, and Seth Freeman '12 also had multi-hit performances to propel Davidson to seven runs on 13 hits.

The ’Cats took an early lead when Freeman took Elon pitcher Ken Ferrer deep to left to start the third inning. The bats continued to heat up in the fourth when Pat Brady '09 tripled to left and the next batter, Drew Gadaire '12, hit a two-run bomb. A final home run came in the eighth inning. An error put Danny Weiss '10 on base and Chase Fitzpatrick capitalized with a two-run shot to left-center.

The Wildcats’ planned doubleheader against Elon on Sunday was canceled due to rain. As a result, the team’s next game is a SoCon battle against Wofford in Spartanburg, S.C. on Friday. The team will look to pick up their fourth SoCon win and in the process equal their total number of conference wins last year.

On Tuesday, March 17, Davidson traveled to Columbia, SC to battle the Gamecocks of the University of South Carolina. The 'Cats suffered a 6-0 loss, dropping their record to 8-7 overall and 3-1 in conference play.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Strong second day earns Lane 26th place in NCAA Zone B Diving Championships
Ben Lane '12, the 2009 CCSA Diver of the Year, represented Davidson at the 2009 NCAA Zone B Diving Championships over the weekend. After a disappointing first-day score of 207.70, Lane responded with a strong second day to finish in 26th place with 276.10 points.

Late goals down Cortland
By Zach Zimmerman
Staff Writer

The Davidson women’s lacrosse team played SUNY Cortland on Thursday night at Richardson Stadium. Davidson had an impressive match and captured a 13-10 victory over the Red Dragons. Davidson then took on Loyola on Sunday and fell 20-3. Their record is now 5-3.

After two goals by Liz Wall '12 at the 26:30 and 22:27 marks in the second half, Davidson leisurely cruised to a 10-4 lead scoring five goals in the first ten minutes of the second half. The cushion may have made Davidson too comfortable as the Red Dragons came surging back to bring the game within one at 11-10 with 5:48 left in the second half. Davidson collected themselves after the run, illustrating their depth and composure while regaining control of the match. To close out the game, Heather Frohman '09 and Jenna Muegele '12 scored two crucial goals to put Davidson up 13-10 and seal the victory. In addition to Frohman’s and Muegele’s clutch efforts, goalkeeper Michelle Pav '10 made multiple saves in the final minutes to secure the victory and registered eight saves for Davidson.

On Sunday, Davidson showed their weariness as they played their fourth game in seven days against Loyola. Davidson allowed 13 first-half goals and looked very tired. Tallying two of Davidson’s three goals was Jen Crawford '10 who recorded her 18th and 19th goals on the season. Wall recorded her third collegiate goal after registering two on Thursday versus SUNY and Davidson fell 20-3. Davidson plays Marist at home on Wednesday at 7 p.m.