10 The Davidsonian

McKillop, from page 12

community—the professors, the staff, the students, the alums, the townspeople. Unprecedented levels of support making us feel so wanted and so welcome and so supported. Giving us inspiration, affirmation, a boost in our energy. To think that could happen here on our campus is the unfolding of a dream I had 20 years ago. To live it has been an experience that I’ll cherish forever.

The disappointment I have in this year is a disappointment I have for our guys in how hard they worked and how despite winning 27 games they never got to that point that was such a part of our experience last year. And I’m disappointed for them, not disappointed at all in them. Their work ethic was without parallel. Their commitment to do it the right way was incredible. And they gave everything they could. Everywhere we traveled, people were hiding behind pillars looking for autographs, greeting our bus trying to get pictures. We never had that kind of experience before. And our guys handled it with poise, they handled it with maturity, grace, humility. But it takes its toll on you.

D: As the team leader, how do you try to manage all that attention and how do you try to make it easier on your guys, the emotionally taxing aspect?

CM: You address it candidly. You confront it head-on. You can’t hide from it because there is no hiding from it. You turn on the TV, you turn on the computer, you walk into town, and someone is going to say something or someone is wearing a shirt. There was no frustration whatsoever, but our players had an awareness. And the awareness builds on you and it was a first-time experience for them. It was a first-time experience for me as a coach. It made us stronger, yet sometimes your strength comes from your weakness.

D: Has this been your most challenging season?

CM: When you say challenging sometimes you want to say difficult. This was not a difficult season at all. A challenging season is when you’re looking at the fourth year of your contract and you haven’t had a .500 record. This was a challenge of a different kind. It was like playing the best schedule you’ve ever played in which every game was a big-time opponent. That doesn’t make it a difficult season. But the challenge of every game was there.

D: It seemed like almost every game this season sold out. Is that something Davidson can sustain moving forward?

CM: I have great optimism that this program is on very sound footing. I also have great optimism that what we have accomplished has been a process and the process continues. The excitement that has been generated this year was the result of, yes, our Elite 8 run, but it’s also the result of years and years of work by teams of the past. I have a sense that a love affair has developed between the way our guys play, the way our guys act, the way our guys represent the program, and the community of supporters we have.

D: Some have described the incoming recruiting class as your best ever. What can we expect from this group and are you currently pursuing any additional scholarship players?

CM: The recruits that we have signed are all very skilled, they all have a high work ethic, they all fit the profile of the typical Davidson player and they want to be here. They’re coming into a program that has won 27, 29, and 29 games. So it’s going to be challenging for them to make an immediate impact. Do they have the capability of doing that? I certainly believe they do. They’re very talented and I think they answer a lot of needs to continue to move our program forward. Programs become great when you have class after class with one or two or three players that are strong building blocks. And I think these guys are going to be very strong building blocks in our program.

D: Is there going to be a fourth?

CM: There is a good chance there could be a fourth, yes.

D: What was the atmosphere like in McKeon Pavilion?

CM: It was a court very similar to what Johnson Gym was. Chairs were set up along the baseline to accommodate the overflow crowd. We walked through a lobby filled with fans to get to the locker room. Every seat was occupied. People were hanging from the rafters. It was a very decisive home-court situation for St. Mary’s. A very raucous atmosphere. The game was played at a very fast pace—and that fed the energy of the crowd. It was high intensity from opening tip until the end of the game.

D: Can you comment at all on Frank Ben-Eze’s injury?

CM: Frank was going through a process of getting better and better as the year progressed. He was playing his best basketball in the conference tournament. That was after considerable rehabilitation for his first injury.(5-13, 1-6)

Results:
4/3 @ Samford L 4-6
4/4 @ Samford W 10-9
4/4 @ CofC L 2-5
4/4 @ Samford W 4-1
4/5 @ Ga. Southern L 1-6

Next Up:
4/8 vs. Gardner-Webb
4/8 vs. Wofford
4/10-4/12 vs. The Citadel
4/10 vs. Charlotte
4/11 @ The Citadel

Notes:
Jackson Taylor ’12 led the ’Cats with a three-day tournament score of 221 (+8) to earn a 25th place individual finish in the Marshall Invitational.
Following Saturday’s double-header sweep at Samford, the Wildcats have already matched last year’s win total of 12.
Wildcats’ lone point at No. 2 singles in Sunday’s loss at Ga. Southern. Walker Lyons ’11 recorded the win.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2009

Coach McKillop and crew celebrate last year’s second round NCAA tournament victory over Georgetown at the RBC Center in Raleigh. McKillop says the attention the team has received since the Elite 8 run has been a new experience for the program.

Three months here on campus and not being immersed in the early stages of practice and being a Freshman, that’s always a big challenge. His progress was superb. Then he caught a pass, and went up for a shot. The guy tried to avoid fouling him and brushed him. The brush threw him off balance and he landed awkwardly on his right leg. He just had surgery two weeks ago. We expect him to be fully recovered prior to the opening game next year.

In an email after the interview, Coach McKillop expressed the following thoughts on the results of the 2008-09 season:
We set the bar very high, and in our pursuit of excellence, we weren’t able to grab the golden ring. Yet, we did accomplish much. We were 1 of 23 teams who won 27 games. We had the 15th best winning percentage in the country. We beat teams from the Big East, ACC, and SEC. We attracted record crowds at Belk Arena and on the road. We played and won on the great stage of Madison Square Garden. We had a 1st Team All-American and Conference Player of the Year in Stephen, an All-Conference Player in Andrew, and Max was the Conference Defensive Player of the Year. The roses may not be as sweet as last year, but there are still roses to smell.

’Cats finish 13th at Marshall Invitational
PETER COSTA
Staff Writer

The Men’s golf team came into this weekend’s tournament, the Marshall Invitational, having come off of a rain-shortened 36-hole event, the Furman Intercollegiate, in which they finished in a tie for 15th. This past weekend, the Wildcats traveled to Huntington, W.V. for a 54-hole tournament. Progressively getting better with each round, the Wildcats as a team had rounds of 313, 299, and 297 on the 6,481-yard Par 71 course.

Individually, Jackson Taylor ’12, a freshman who has had a very solid rookie year, took top honors for the Wildcats. He posted a three-day total of 221 (t-25). Just as the team improved with each round, so did Michael Saari ’09, who fired rounds of 79-77-72 to shoot a total of 228 which earned him t-52 overall. Also in with a total of 228, Chris Rollins ’11 fired rounds of 76-80-72. Rounding out the five-man roster for the Wildcats were Bobby Urso ’11 and David Fowler ’09. Urso tied for the team low round with a 72 in the second round. Also firing one-over 72 were Saari (final round) and Rollins (final round).

The University of Illinois took home the team title with a three-day total of 855. They won handily, with Xavier University and Ball State University finishing in a tie for second place fourteen shots behind the Fighting Illini. Rounding out the top five team scores were William and Mary (880) and DePaul University (882). With a tournament low round of 66, Illinois’ Zach Barlow was propelled to the Individual Championship. He turned in a three-day score of 211. Xavier’s Sebastian MacLean finished one shot back with 212 strokes. Rounding out the top five individuals were: Alberto Fernandez (Univ. of Cincinnati — 214), and a four-way tie for fourth at 215.

The Wildcats hope to continue solid performances when they co-host the Palisades Collegiate in Charlotte, N.C. on April 13-14.

Lacrosse (5-6)
Results:
4/4 @ Navy L 6-13
4/12 @ American

Notes:
Jenna Mugele ’12 and Anna Smith ’12 each scored two goals in Saturday’s loss at Navy.

Track and Field (10-10, 5-3)
Results:
4/3 Duke Invitational
4/4 Liberty Collegiate Invitational
4/11 Joe Hilton UNC Invitational

Notes:
Kim Colley ’09 broke her own school record in the 100 meters with a time of 12.57 on her way to a fifth-place finish at the Liberty Collegiate Invitational.

Women’s Tennis
Results:
4/1 vs. UNCG L 2-5
4/3 vs. Charlotte L 3-4
4/7 vs. App. State W 7-0

Next Up:
4/10 vs. Elon
4/18 vs. Furman

Notes:
The Wildcats bounced back with an impressive victory over the Mountaineers on Tuesday and hope to continue their strong play.