4 THE DAVIDSONIAN News

Giving thanks at Davidson
One student reflects on four years

LIE COKER
Staff Writer

I’ve had the pleasure of writing a list of small things to be grateful for in the Davidsonian for all
four years here, and now I’m completing it with my final installment. Here are some ideas to remember all the
good parts of our college before you sit down to munch turkey. Enjoy, and Happy Thanksgiving!

1. Fun out at the Lake Campus.
2. Interacting with brilliant and complicated individuals at every turn. Davidson people are different and wonderful.
3. Enjoying a Starbucks vanilla frappuccino from a vending machine at the bottom of the library or Belk.
4. Laughing at a professor’s sense of humor—whether it was funny or not.
5. Letting loose on the dance floor at the court.
6. Late-night quesadilla runs to the Outpost or Union with friends.
7. The Honor Code: enough said.
8. Staff and food at Commons/Wildcat Den/and Union Café.
9. The friends we made as freshmen.
10. The friends you reconnect with as seniors.
11. Knowing that there is always someone looking out for you at Davidson. They will watch out for you like
they are part of your family.
12. The abundance of community service opportunities offered here at Davidson. We like to help people.
13. Marveling at Dance Ensemble.
14. Basketball games.
15. Spending time making connections with other students through CatsConnect.
16. How patient and helpful our hall counselors and RAs are every time we lock ourselves out, get seriously ill,
or just need information.
17. Paint Your Own Pottery Night.
18. Taking a class you never thought you would enjoy. And then enjoying it.
19. Getting the opportunity to take a class with a “special guest” professor.
20. Applauding the amazing theatre productions.
21. Going crazy with your own eating house or fraternity. Or ones that you don’t belong to at all...
22. Spring Frolics.
23. The elegance and excitement of Red and Black Ball.
24. Hearing the acapella groups croon to us.
25. Finding those hidden and relaxing spots on campus we can’t get enough of.
26. The sheer bluntness of a lot of professors, staff, and students alike.
27. Listening to people speak in different languages as they glide down the halls of Chambers.
28. Never having to walk that far. Truly. Compared to other campuses.
29. Every single quirky detail that Davidson days encompass. You’re a wildcat, which means, it’s a great day.

Hang in there. Live it up. Enjoy life. Don’t forget to breathe. And remember: even when you don’t love Davidson,
there’s a lot to be thankful for.

Cork. It actually does grow on trees. To keep a natural balance between manufacturing practices and the environment, Birkenstock supports
using renewable resources like cork. Balance and support? Just like a pair of our clogs.

Now in stock at WHIT MILLER’S Shoe Store & Repair
122 North Main Street
Mooresville, NC 28115
704-664-4109
fax: 704-660-6461

Receive $20 off purchase price with this ad
Expires 2/1/10

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2009

» Bill Giduz

As part of the Vann Center for Ethics dedication, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell spoke Monday night in Duke Family Performance
Hall about his career and the role of ethics.«With active tuberculosis: rarely results in infectious disease, the possibility of spread
through casual contact is low. The Health Center stresses that students should wait to be contacted about testing.

11/14/09 16:53 hrs Vehicle Accident
Davidson College student contacted Officer via officer cell phone. Complainant called requesting assistance getting a college-owned vehicle she had been
driving out of a ditch near the end of South Thompson Street in Davidson. The officer advised the student that
even though it was a college-owned vehicle, her accident was outside the jurisdiction of the Campus Police. The officer advised
her that the Davidson Town Police would be the agency investigating her accident.

11/14/09 13:30 hrs Suspicious Persons
Officer was contacted on the officer’s cell phone and was advised of numerous juveniles in the area of Martin Science
Building skateboarding. Several of the subjects had previously been warned not to skateboard on college-owned property. The officer found the
juveniles to be disrespectful and taunting. He attempted to contact all of the parents of the kids and had no
positive results. Officer left messages for the parents to contact the officer cell phone as soon as possible. The officer
documented the names, addresses, and dates of birth of all juveniles and released them after advising them that Davidson College
was private property.

11/14/09 17:44 hrs Assist Fire
Officer received a call on the officer cell phone from an unknown caller in reference to a lady choking on
her food at the Baker Sports Tennis Complex. The caller also advised that another person was calling the medic via
911. The officer walked with her to the ladies' room area. Davidson Fire performed medical checks on the subject. Reporting
officer learned that a doctor performed the Heimlich maneuver on the victim five times before officer arrival. He stated that
she spit up no “plug,” but her airway was unobstructed. Medic 33 arrived and checked her out. Medic 33 transported
her to Presbyterian Main in Charlotte.

11/14/09 23:24 hrs Alarm
Officer Combs was dispatched to 405 N. Main St., the Grey House in reference to burglar alarm activation. Officer was
contacted on the officer cell phone by a Davidson student stating that he had activated the alarm when he opened
the door. He reported to the officer that he was participating in the scavenger hunt and thought one of the
items might be in that building. Officer reset the alarm and secured the door. No further action was taken.

11/17/09 00:21 hrs Fire
Officer, while on routine patrol, observed a fire at 117 Patterson Ct. Cir. Upon arrival, the reporting officer observed about
30 students sitting around a campfire. The fire was inside an outdoor fireplace on the concrete slab behind the house.
Several house members advised that they have had these campfires five times a year for the last five years; they
advised last year it was approved by RLO. Several other house members stated that as long as no one was
drinking it was okay; the reporting officer observed empty Coors Light bottles of beer on the picnic table behind the
fire. Two house members put out the fire and most of the students left the area. The reporting officer stopped
back approximately 30 minutes later to verify the fire was still out and the Davidson Fire Department was not needed.
