THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Wildcat Pulse

Saari and Garner capture conference honors on way to 7th place SoCon finish

Lacrosse to join new

PETER COSTA
Staff Writer

The men’s golf team closed out the 2008-2009 season with a seventh-place finish at the Southern Conference Tournament in Florence, S.C. this past weekend. They improved from a ninth-place finish in last year’s tournament. Michael Saari ’09 received all-conference honors while Jackson Taylor ’12 was named to the all-freshman team.

The men’s golf team came into the SoCon tournament after a 12th-place finish in the Palisades Collegiate, a 54-hole tournament that Davidson co-hosted with UNC-Charlotte and Belmont Abbey. In the Palisades, the Wildcats posted back-to-back rounds of 296 on the 6,800-yard Par 72 track, which put them in 12th place after day one. On day two, they could only post 301, which kept them in 12th place.

The course played soft last weekend. Scores in the 60s were posted by several players. One of those players was Saari, who fired a career-low round of 68, four-under-par, in round one. Saari continued his fine form with scores of 72 and 71 in rounds two and three to finish in a tie for eighth. Saari claimed his first Southern Conference Player of the Week Award. Taylor also played well in rounds one and two with a combined total of 145, but a final round 81 knocked him down to a tie for 45th overall.

Following Saari and Taylor were Bobby Urso ’11, tying for 61st overall, Ryan Crum ’11, tying for 72nd overall with 233, and Christopher Rollins ’11, who shot a three-day total of 236 to finish in a tie for 77th. Three Wildcats played as individuals: Andrew Goyzueta ’10 tallied a three-round total of 237, tying with fellow teammate Adam Lewicki ’11 for 80th place, and Robert Mayo ’11 placed 86th.

As mentioned, the course played easier—23 rounds were shot in the 60s over the three-day span. The lowest round of the tournament was shot by Louisville’s Riley Wheeldon, who returned an 11-under-par 61 in round two. He went on to finish in third place as he surrounded his brilliant second round with rounds of 71 and 72. The medalist of the Palisades Collegiate was Marquette University’s Mike Van Sickle, who shot a three-day total of 200. Finishing two behind Van Sickle was VCU’s Vincent Nadeau. Rounding out the top five individuals were Louisville’s Adam Hadwin and West Florida’s Kyle Scott, who fired three-day totals of 209. VCU was the Palisades Collegiate team champion, with a three-day total.

Baseball vs. UNCG
Fri. at 7, Sat. at 2, Sun. at 1
Wilson Field

Davidson enters the weekend having lost six of their last seven since a doubleheader sweep of Samford three weeks ago, while the Spartans come into the series arguably the SoCon’s hottest team, having won seven of their last nine, including victories over ACC opponents N.C. State, Wake Forest, and Duke.

Outside the Den

NBA Playoffs
No. 2 Boston vs. No. 7 Chicago
Game 3: Thur. at 8, TNT
Game 4: Sun. at 1, ABC

The defending world champion Celtics travel to Chicago for game three of this Eastern Conference quarterfinal series. Derrick Rose tied a playoff rookie record with 36 points in the Bulls’ series-opening overtime win at Boston. The Celtics salvaged game two at home despite not having All-Star forward Kevin Garnett, who is out for the playoffs with a knee injury.of 836. Louisville finished seven shots behind at 843. Marquette, Old Dominion, and Belmont Abbey College rounded out the top-five team finishers.

’Cats fall to Paladins in season finale
ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

The women’s tennis team hosted SoCon rival Furman on Saturday as Davidson competed in its last conference match of the season. Davidson fell short to the Paladins, losing 6-1 against a tough squad. The ’Cats, prior to the start of the game, honored their two seniors Michele Fanney ’09 and Lora Dushanova ’09. Dushanova was the team’s lone scorer, winning her singles contest, 5-7, 6-4, and 10-7. Dushanova’s win brought her season total to 3-1 for her individual record. The ’Cats’ next play will be this weekend as the team will travel to Elon, N.C. for the Southern Conference tournament.

conference in 2010
MIKE FRONGELLO
Sports Editor

Davidson’s women’s lacrosse team has played as an independent the last three seasons, but Davidson Director of Athletics Jim Murphy and Davidson women’s lacrosse coach Kim Wayne announced on Tuesday that the Wildcats would be joining the new National Lacrosse Conference (NLC) for the 2010 season. The ’Cats last played in a conference in 2006 when they were a member of the American Lacrosse Conference. Joining the Wildcats in the NLC will be Liberty, Presbyterian, Howard, Jacksonville, Longwood, and Detroit Mercy. Davidson concluded its 2009 season with a 20-9 victory over Presbyterian on Tuesday and also faced Longwood this spring. All schools in the new conference have exhibited strong commitment to academics, athletics, and community involvement. The NLC expects to immediately be a premier NCAA Division I lacrosse conference. Davidson looks forward to competing for their first conference championship next spring. The inaugural NLC tournament will be held at Longwood next April.

Walker Lyons ’11 and the Davidson men’s and women’s tennis teams travel to Elon this weekend to compete in the Southern Conference tennis championships.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2009

Men’s tennis preps for SoCon tourney
ZACHARY ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson men’s tennis suffered two defeats this week, ending their regular season and posting an overall record at 6-16. Davidson had their last Southern Conference match on Thursday as they hosted Appalachian State and lost by a score of 7-0. To conclude the season, the team faced UNC-Charlotte on Friday at Davidson, falling 5-2. Thursday’s score does not do the team justice. Though Appalachian State swept Davidson in both doubles and singles points, Davidson put up a great fight. Both Scott Myers ’09 and Calum Gee ’12 forced third set super tie breakers. Despite their stellar efforts, Davidson still fell short. After regrouping from Thursday’s shutout, Davidson put up another valiant effort dropping a match to UNCC on Friday. UNCC took two of the three doubles matches to take the initial doubles point and set the pace for the afternoon. At the No. 2 spot, Walker Lyons ’11 registered an exciting come from behind victory winning by a score of 4-6, 6-3, and 7-5. Lyons has nine singles wins on the season. Myers tallied his team-leading 11th victory of the season by a score of 7-6, 6-3 in straight sets at the No. 3 spot. Davidson now prepares for the Southern Conference Tournament on Thursday in Elon, N.C.

morningstar mini-storage | Store your college belongings in a secure, 5 x 10 heated and cooled unit while you are away for the summer.
Morningstar of Brawley School | 704.288.4759
522 Brawley School Rd. Mooresville, NC 28117
www.morningstarstorage.com