_interviews, what happens when there are no interviews available? How do students benefit in this situation? During difficult economic times,
students need more ways to find internship and job opportunities, and it seems that this summer could be the first
of several in which students find themselves ill-prepared. Like so many Americans today, Davidson students now find themselves asking, with
resumes in hand, "Where do we go from here?"

The Davidsonian

Editors-in-Chief
Katherine Miller & Brian Moran

Managing Editor
Kate Kelly

News Editors
Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood

Perspectives Editors
Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris

Arts & Living Editors
Zoe Balaconis & Jennifer Gambrell

Yow! Editors
Peter Bruton & Alex Greening

Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis

Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Nami Patel

Business & Circulation Managers
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright

Online Editor
Greg Newman

Content Manager
Kelly Beggs

Assistant Copy Editors
Katie Irby, Alex Kowaleski, Patricia Reid

Photography Staff
Bill King, Aaron Robinson & Laney Schenk

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to:
The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez
College Union. Opinions expressed in articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Only
the staff editorials represent the views of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Email
Jordan Wall at jowall@davidson.edu for advertising inquiries. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2009

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Cheerleading squad Davidson's best in years

I am a 1953 graduate of Davidson now living at The Pines. I am a loyal and proud alumnus and
have attended most all of the men’s and women’s basketball games as well as the football games. I have attended
these games for many years and I think the current cheerleading squad is the best I have seen here. They
work hard and are talented and enthusiastic. They deserve some recognition and thanks.

H.L. (Jack) Ruth Jr., Class of 1953

Buy albums, not singles

ANJAN MUKHERJEE
Perspectives Editor

Much popular music these days is packaged and presented to have a very limited impact. Songs are created to be
instant hits, only to be forgotten the following week. Countless charts are fluidly welcoming and saying goodbye to songs all
the time. Think of some of the most popular songs today. Some of you have probably purchased them off of
iTunes. Each song is most probably part of a larger record. Have you heard any of the other songs off
the record? If you’re like most people in today’s society, the ever-decreasing attention span to all things entertainment has prevented
you from doing so.

I contend that the idea of a record, or an album, has lost importance in American popular music. Often, it
seems as if albums are compiled in order to satisfy a quota. The formula seems to be such: write a
song that will hopefully become a temporary hit, and then write some other mediocre (at best) songs in order to
sell something that is overpriced as well as an incomplete product. Gone are the days when musicians would put out
albums that were greater than the sum of their parts.

I believe that records are put together the way they are for a reason. That is part of the enjoyment
I get out of listening to a musician’s work. Why did the artist choose to include these particular individual songs
on this album? Why are these songs in this particular order? What is the importance of the cover art? In
my experience, the “hit song” is rarely my favorite song on the album. I like the artist to challenge me
and make me think about the song to which I am listening. The aforementioned “hit song” suffices for those who
prefer instant gratification, but I like to be a little more mentally stimulated. The real gems of the album are
those tracks that get better each time you listen to them.

The next time you’re listening to a song or artist you really like, take some time and listen to the
entire album from which that one song comes. If the artist has taken the time to create a complete album,
with multiple well-written songs — and not a disc with one hit and nine terrible songs — ask yourself the
questions I posed above. I hope that if you do so, your time spent listening to the album will be
a little more rewarding.more worthwhile. In case you’re having trouble finding good albums, start with these: “August and Everything After”
by Counting Crows, “Octavarium” by Dream Theater, “There Is Nothing Left To Lose” by Foo Fighters, “Ten” by Pearl Jam,
and “Deadwing” by Porcupine Tree. Anjan Mukherjee ’09 is a music major from Bethesda, Md. Contact him at anmukherjee@davidson.edu.

Living Davidson
Mario Silva
Guest Columnist

I am somewhat of an anomaly at Davidson College: I don’t stress about homework. While I hear my fellow students
bemoan their papers and tests, I blithely procrastinate, socialize, and remain—on the whole—stress-free. I would like to argue that while
I appear to be a lesser student, my approach is actually perfectly in line with Davidson’s identity as a liberal
arts institution.

First, I will explore what it means to be a liberal arts college. According to the College’s Statement of Purpose,
Davidson “intends to teach all students to think clearly, to make relevant and valid judgments, to discriminate among values, and
to communicate freely with others in the realm of ideas.” What this implies is that a Davidson education should focus
on connections. One should be able to “think clearly” about any subject and make connections between subjects. Likewise, one should
cultivate connections with others intellectually and personally. This is what separates our mindset from that of a large, production-oriented university.
In that setting, academics are explored largely in isolation without a sense of their interrelatedness. At Davidson, the interrelatedness of
subject matter is essential.

This mindset is essential for two reasons: it strengthens each academic discipline and it raises the value of a Davidson
education. As a music major and theatre minor, I am in a unique position to consider connections between disciplines. The
arts depend on history, science, politics, literature, etc., for subject matter and inspiration. They also continually make connections between their
ethereal pursuit and the concrete pursuits of other disciplines. But it is also possible to make connections between these concrete
pursuits. Scientific knowledge strengthens political thinking; knowledge of religion strengthens historical thinking, etc. In this way, no knowledge is useless.
As long as one is willing to apply what one is learning, every discipline is vital to every other. Finding
these vital connections and being able to think critically also allows one to use a Davidson education flexibly. It compounds
the value of the specific knowledge we gain here by allowing us to apply it to virtually any field. If
we learn how to think critically about Latin, we can think critically about chemistry. The specific knowledge may be different,
but the process is the same. Furthermore, if we can apply a particular field of study to another, we can
make novel conclusions that will be of practical value to an employer.

What also sets Davidson apart is our commitment to “developing humane instincts.” The College recognizes that an education devoid of
human application is severely lacking. Those “humane instincts” lead to a focus on service and foreign study. We are encouraged
to use our intellectual abilities to improve the lives of others and engage with the wider world outside our enclave.
I would argue, however, that this instinct should also be applied in one’s personal life. Focusing on one’s academics to
the exclusion of social stimulation undercuts the purpose for which one is studying. Therefore, every time one ignores work temporarily
to cultivate personal relationships, it actually serves the higher purpose of that work. Play reinforces work. Focusing entirely on the
work prevents one from connecting to others and applying one’s studies in a human context. Without that human application, one’s
work is not serving the purpose the college intends.

Now I will make the connection to my approach to work. I realize that academics are our central focus in
college. Ignoring work entirely would be rather misguided. But so would focusing on academics to the exclusion of all else.
Apart from engendering an unbalanced lifestyle, this exclusion undercuts the purpose of our study. By not stressing about the assignments
themselves, I allow myself the freedom to explore outside of academics. I can read the newspaper, watch television, or listen
to “This American Life” and not worry that I am taking precious time away from my studies. I can also
stay up late talking to friends, console a friend, or chat while work sits idly by. This is because these
pursuits reinforce my academic work. They allow me to apply academics, to focus on connections. And that, it seems to
me, is the higher purpose of my time at Davidson.

Mario Silva ’09 is a music major from Bloomington, Ill. Contact him at masilva@davidson.edu.
