THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcats, from page 12

yards on the drive. The Bulldogs were not ready to quit. After the two teams exchanged punts to begin the second half, Platek broke a tackle near the line of scrimmage and roamed down the sideline for a 63-yard score with eight minutes to play in the third quarter.

The Wildcats tried to organize a response. Blanchard hooked up with Andrew Aldrich '10 for a 25-yard completion and rushed for 20 yards on the next play to set up the fateful field goal attempt that would never have a chance to sail through the uprights.

The Wildcat offense went three-and-out after the Bulldogs’ final score, but received a huge burst from the defense when Tyler Lemons ’10 and Peter Kidwell ’12 combined to stop Platek’s dive on fourth-and-one short of the first down marker at the Davidson 26. After Blanchard dove to convert a fourth-and-two at their own 34, the Wildcats reached into their bag of tricks to set up another touchdown. Lined up in the Wildcat formation, Justin Williams ’11 handed off to Mantuo on an apparent sweep. Rather than run, Mantuo flipped the ball to Blanchard, who had lined up at receiver and was coming on a reverse. Blanchard found a wide-open Williams for a 22-yard connection to the Drake 12. Three plays later, Blanchard broke the plane from five yards out with 5:54 to play.

Wildcat SPORTS Pulse:

Michael Blanchard ’11 hands off to Justin Williams ’11 during the Wildcats' 21-16 loss to Drake on Saturday. Williams totaled 84 all-purpose yards in the game. After gaining five yards on two plays, Blanchard was hauled down for a sack by John Sawhill inside his own one-yard line. A desperation fourth-down pass sailed over Mark Hanabury’s head, ensuring that the Wildcats would go down in defeat.

When Blanchard lined up in the shotgun for the two-point conversion, however, the snap sailed by him and he was forced to fall on the ball, leaving the margin at 21-16. The defense gave up two first downs on Drake’s next drive, but stiffened in time to force a Drake punt from the Wildcat 39. Unfortunately, Bulldog punter Brandon Wubs dropped a beautiful pooch punt, pinning the Wildcats on their own five with 1:57 to play.

The frustration of another close loss was evident from head coach Tripp Merritt after the game. “It’s like a broken record,” he said. “It boils down to four or five big plays every game. We missed a block on that field goal, and we work on it and talk about it every day.”

The Wildcat defense was led by Kidwell’s eight tackles and second interception in as many weeks, and by Lemons’ six tackles and two sacks. Davidson recorded six sacks in all. Blanchard finished with 35 yards rushing and two touchdowns, while also throwing for 125 yards on 14-25 passing and an interception. Mantuo contributed 48 yards on 11 carries. Aldrich wasBlanchard’s favorite target, hauling in six receptions for 54 yards. Platek finished with 75 yards rushing on five attempts and two scores. Mike Piatkowski produced 226 yards on 17-26 passing and an interception. Drew Blackmon and Spencer Cady caught five passes for 72 and 47 yards, respectively. Wildcat punter Andrew Wohler ’10 had a moment of glory in the second quarter, booming a 69-yard punt that was three yards shy of the school record. The kick would have broken the record had it not rolled into the end zone. The loss drops the Wildcats to 2-5 overall, and 2-3 in the Pioneer Football League. Drake improved to 6-1, 4-0 in the Pioneer Football League. The Wildcats will travel this Saturday to challenge the third team currently tied atop the PFL with a 4-0 record when they take on the Butler Bulldogs. Butler is also 7-0 overall. Kickoff is at noon.

Jennie Mostellar ‘11 recorded a goal and two assists in the Wildcats’ 5-2 win over Appalachian State on Saturday.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2009

Women’s Soccer vs. Georgia Southern
Saturday 5 p.m.
Alumni Stadium

The Wildcats enter the season finale unbeaten in their last four games following a win and tie on their road trip to Chattanooga and Samford over the weekend. With a win and an Elon loss to first place UNCG, the ‘Cats will secure a spot in next week’s SocCon tournament.

Outside the Den
MLB
Philadelphia Phillies at N.Y. Yankees
Yankee Stadium
Wednesday 7:57 p.m.

The defending champion Phillies travel to the new Yankee Stadium to take on baseball’s most storied franchise in Game 1 of the World Series. ALCS MVP C.C. Sabathia will start on the mound for the Yankees while the Phillies will counter with midseason acquisition Cliff Lee who has been superb in the playoffs.

Mostellar, Perry shine as ’Cats rout Mountaineers 5-2
ANNA STOCKAMORE
Staff Writer

The early morning rain cleared for the parents’ weekend field hockey match against NorPac opponent Appalachian State. The team celebrated their 5-2 win with an afternoon picnic on the Belk Turf Field. Clare Perry ’11 scored the first goal of the game in the 28th minute off a penalty shot, and then followed with a second goal only 3 minutes later off an assist by Jennie Mostellar ’11. In the opening of the second half, Annie Evans ’13 scored again to create a 3-0 lead over the Mountaineers. Appalachian State came back with fervor in the middle of the second half, scoring two back-to-back goals leaving the score at 3-2. Fortunately, the ’Cats put two more goals in the back of the net in the end of the second half. Hannah English ’12 scored the first goal off a penalty corner, and Mostellar scored the second goal off an assist from Perry. The ’Cats dominated the match by outshooting the Mountaineers 30-13. Perry now leads the team in scoring with 3 goals and 4 assists. This was the ’Cats’ first NorPac win of the season, now placing them 1-4 in the NorPac division and 5-11 overall. Hopefully, this win will give the ’Cats confidence when they face Longwood Saturday, Oct. 31 at 1 p.m. on the Belk Turf Field.