THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 30, 2009

display until October 7.

BEN IRELAND
Staff Writer

Imagine concocting an artistic potion of Korean folk tigers and Frida Kahlo’s hypnotic self-portraits. Fire burn and cauldron bubble, this
final aesthetic creation is what renowned artist Cristina Toro brings to Davidson in her exhibit “Alive on the Intricate Earth
Under Trees,” which runs through October 7 in the VAC.

Toro, who hails from upstate New York, is pleased to highlight her first institutional solo exhibition at Davidson. The seven
paintings were created this summer specifically for this exposition.

Though born in Puerto Rico, Toro credits an American writer, Annie Dillard, as one of her major influences. Dillard’s 1974
Pulitzer Prize-winning novel, “Pilgrim at Tinker Creek,” is a nonfiction work that describes the beautiful, ever-changing environment of rural Virginia.

“Abundant detail is essential in order to truthfully communicate how brilliantly small we are,” Toro said in an interview. Upon
entering the gallery, one cannot help but see the mutual affinity that exists between the artist and her work, gracefully
reflected in Toro’s collection of new paintings.

The seven canvases presented in Toro’s gallery display a mesmerizing cascade of historical, literary, and contemporary undercurrents.

Looking at each canvas, one can clearly see the influence that other artists have had on Toro. There are particular
echoes to Gene Davis’ striped paintings, Frida Kahlo’s enigmatic self-portraits, and Korean folk artists.

Toro’s masterful command of color, balance, texture, and proportion infuses her collection with a flowing river of harmony, where frenetic
eddies of energy seemingly engulf the eyes and imagination of its viewers.

“I really appreciate the colors that Toro used in this gallery,” said Madeleine Evans ’12. “I find Toro’s exhibition very
complementary to the other galleries and displays here in the VAC. I’m very impressed.”

In each painting on canvas, Toro focuses on four basic shapes—triangles, circles, squares, and rectangles—to provide for the varied abstractness.
The variegated paintings of animals, such as birds, tigers, and humans, echo the artist’s outlook on the importance of nature.

Although one may not completely understand the meaning of each painting, Toro still manages to portray enigmatic beauty to her
viewers. Specifically, she conveys that one’s experience of nature is based entirely on personal perception.

As one looks at a painting, he or she will interpret the abundance of shapes and color differently from another
onlooker. Toro’s work suggests ambiguous individualism, though the paintings’ colors and shapes provide paradoxical clarity. This underlying motif of definitive
beauty juxtaposes masterfully with the abstract orientation of Toro’s collection.

Katie VOEGTLI
Staff Writer

Friday afternoon, students and faculty gathered in the Sculpture Garden for the “First Annual Jam Thingy.” So dubbed by good-humored
orchestra director Dr. Tara Chamra, this casual open-air concert featured the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra (DCSO) and the Jazz Ensemble.

The orchestra previewed selected movements from Dvorak’s Symphony No. 8, which they will play in full at their first formal
concert, which will take place tonight.

The symphony draws its inspiration from Bohemian folk music and is at times both cheery and tempestuous. The first movement,
full of glowing energy, was sweetened by a recurring “bird call” flute melody, while the third movement eased into a
melancholy waltz.

“We usually like to save the last movement for the concert, but it’s so great that I can’t resist,” said
Chamra before the finale began. Rich with the interplay of turbulent motion and graceful melody, the piece triumphantly forecasted a
brilliant year for the orchestra.

Impressively enough, the orchestra played wonderfully despite the threat of rain. While the dancing wind and moody horizon complemented the
music beautifully, performers were still a bit on edge.

“[I was] really distracted by the threat of rain,” said Hannah Jordan ’13, a violinist.

The Jazz Ensemble, a select group of around twenty musicians, performed next under the steady guidance of director Dr. Bill
Lawing. Whimsical selections included “Out of the Doghouse” and “Stompin’ on a Riff,” both were executed with great pizzazz until
the impending showers finally put an end to the performance. Thanks to the competence of the sound system coordinator Nick
Jennison ’11, panic did not ensue.

“We had an exact plan for what to do if it rained,” said Jennison.

Matt Lee ’11 reflected on the weather: “I was just disappointed that we got rained out after two songs. We
didn’t get to play some tunes that sounded great in practice, but hopefully people liked what they heard and are
eager to hear some more,” he said.

The DCSO also looks forward to a promising year of musical excellence. Drizzling icing over the cake of sonorous success,
the DCSO hopes to branch out into the realm of community service. There will be five concerts throughout the year
in the series dubbed Concerts for a Cause, all of which will endeavor to benefit those in need.

They hope to branch out to the surrounding community with a series of “Concerts for a Cause,” which will benefit
those in need. While admission will remain free and open to the public, donations will be accepted at the door.
All of the proceeds from each concert will be given to a selected charity. This year’s charities were chosen by
the orchestra members and include the Hole in the Wall Gang Camps, the American Stroke Foundation, VH1 Save the Music,
Building Tomorrow, and Habitat for Humanity.

The first concert will be held on October 7 at 7:30 in Duke Family Performance Hall, and will benefit Hole
in the Wall Gang Camps. Selections include Torke’s Ash, Villa-Lobos’ Choros No. 7, and Dvorak’s Symphony No. 8.

Friday’s jam launched a thrilling year in the land of jazz and orchestra performance at Davidson, so be on the
lookout for opportunities to hear them for yourself.
