www.thedavidsonian.com

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Dr. HALEH ESFANDIARI LECTURES ON IMPRISONMENT IN IRAN

Iranian-American Scholar Dr. Haleh Esfandiari lectured Thursday about her detainment in Iran and her three months spent in solitary confinement
in Iran’s infamous Evin prison. See NEWS, page 3

JAMMING IN THE SCULPTURE GARDEN

Davidson College Symphony Orchestra and Jazz Ensemble perform in “First Annual Jam Thingy.” See ARTS, page 5

FIELD HOCKEY DROPS TWO OVER WEEKEND

Freshman talent Finley Amato scores two against Longwood in Wildcat loss. See SPORTS, page 11

Katie Lovett Staff Writer

On Tuesday, Sep. 22, town officials received word that Davidson has been accepted into the North Carolina Main Street program.
According to the North Carolina Main Street Center, the program “helps small towns to recognize and preserve their historic fabric”
by utilizing local resources to “build on their unique characteristics to create vibrant central business districts that meet the needs
of today’s communities.”

Developed by the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the program offers funding for the renewal of small town main streets
and has proven successful in over a thousand smaller communities across the United States. Since the establishment of the program
in 1980, North Carolina Main Street downtowns have experienced a gain of $1.1 billion in new investments, a net gain
of 13,000 jobs, a net gain of 3,100 businesses, and the renovation of 3,000 buildings. Nationwide, Main Street communities have
received more than $41.6 billion of new public and private investment in their downtowns.

The Main Street program utilizes a four-point approach to implement its objective of downtown redevelopment and revitalization: organization, promotion, design,
and economic restructuring in central business districts. Building partnerships between diverse groups including merchants, bankers, public officials, civic groups, and
the chamber of commerce promotes effective management and downtown leadership. The program aims to restore downtown areas as attractions for
shoppers, investors, and tourists by improving retail merchandising and rejuvenating community involvement. The four-point approach also includes enhancing the aesthetic
quality of the downtown area with attention to environmental elements and public improvements. Finally, the program seeks to diversify the
economic base of the community while maintaining and strengthening the existing economic assets of the business district.

The town of Davidson hopes to benefit from the program guidance, technical assistance, training, networking, advocacy, and leadership that the
North Carolina Main Street Center offers. Over the past year, Davidson has been devising a new comprehensive plan for the
redevelopment of the downtown area. Beginning with a restructuring that shifted the director of the nonprofit Downtown Davidson Inc. (DDI)
to a department head position in Town Hall, town officials have been seeking to improve the local business climate.

Although brokers consider Davidson a great place to live, it is not often considered an ideal place to locate their
businesses. A non-scientific survey of local residents uncovered that most Davidson residents consider the town indifferent to business here. For
this reason, Davidson has hired the consulting firm Arnett Muldrow & Associates of Greenville, SC to develop a branding and
marketing plan that will promote downtown.Davidson. Main Street Program spurs new development

Arnett Muldrow & Associates specializes in economic development and community branding and have conducted studies in more than 100 other
communities in 17 states, including the North Carolina communities of Burlington, Reidsville, Mount Airy, and Hendersonville.

See Main St, page 3

---

Photo by Bill Giduz

Students participate in the Community Bicycle Repair in the Union Atrium last Thursday, after which the new fleet of community
bikes was released.

---

Vann Center expands with new programs

KELLY WILSON
Staff Writer

The study of ethics on campus moves to a higher plane this year with the opening of the Vann Center
for Ethics and the attendance of four seniors at the Symposium on Ethical Decision-Making and Moral Values to be held
at Hilton Head in November.

The Vann Center for Ethics serves as “a catalyst for moral inquiry, interdisciplinary reflection, civil dialogue, careful analysis, and responsible
action regarding ethics,” said Dr. David Perry, Professor of Applied Ethics and Director of the Vann Center for Ethics. Jim
Vann '50 and his wife Lee donated a major gift to the College to establish an ethics center about two
years ago. College President Tom Ross established an advisory committee to develop the Center’s mission, which was adopted last May,
and Perry was recruited to become the Center’s Director.

“Davidson’s campus has always been infused with honor and ethics,” Perry said. “One of the reasons folks were attracted to
founding the Center this year is that this is the centennial year of the student-run honor system. Later this fall
we will host a panel discussion about the Davidsonian tradition of honor and integrity.”

The Vann Center is housed on the first floor of Eumenean Hall and partners with a variety of organizations on
campus to brainstorm ethical issues that people are interested in discussing. The Center hosts events such as lectures and open
discussions about ethical issues. There have already been three events this fall that were well attended by students, including the
presentation “Physicians’ Integrity and Ties to Industry,” given by Dr. Lance Stell, Davidson’s Thatcher Professor of Philosophy and Director of
the Medical Humanities Program, and Perry’s own lecture entitled “Ethics and War in Comparative Religious Perspective.”

Funding for the Vann Center also allows for two additional ethics courses to be offered each year, both taught by
Perry. “The Vann Center emphasizes Davidson’s approach to facilitating well-rounded growth in all Davidson students,” said Athan Makansi '10, Chair
of the Honor Council and Member of the Vann Center’s Advisory Board. “It encourages students to grapple with questions of
conduct. These questions are just as important as questions of academia that we all encounter in the classroom.”

While many organizations on campus already inform the current ethical climate on campus, the Vann Center focuses on ethical deliberation
across disciplines, and it provides venues for dialogue around ethics. The Vann Center currently is establishing a Student Advisory Group,
which will evaluate the Center’s events, help plan future programs, and moderate discussions. The group will meet once a month.

See Ethics, page 4
