10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Phillies look to make World Series history vs. Yanks

Logan Lewis
Sports Section Editor

The Philadelphia Phillies are back in the World Series for the second straight year, looking for their second title in
as many years. They have the tough task of taking on the highly talented and equally highly paid New York
Yankees tonight in Game 1 of the series. If the Phillies are going to succeed, they will have to overcome
more than just the unforgiving bats of Alex Rodriguez and Mark Teixeira and the powerful pitching of C.C. Sabathia and
A.J. Burnett. They have to face what is sometimes the most difficult opponent in sports — history.

History tells us that National League teams who win the World Series, in all likelihood, will not win it the
next year. Only six times in MLB history have NL teams been able to repeat. No NL team has done
it since Pete Rose and the “Big Red Machine” in 1976. The last NL team to win the pennant two
years in a row was the Atlanta Braves in 1996 who, coincidentally, proceeded to lose to the Yankees.

The Phillies’ counterparts, the Yankees, are arguably the most successful franchise in all of sports history. In fact, the Yankees
have made repeating as World Series Champions look relatively easy. Their record in the World Series when they have had
the chance to repeat is an exceptional 16-5. The Yankees are making their 40th appearance in the World Series and
are looking for their 27th championship, the most of any MLB franchise by far. In the Phillies and Yankees' most
recent meeting in the World Series (1950), the Yankees won 4-0.

More recent history, however, favors the Phillies more so than the heralded Yankees. In their last two appearances in the
World Series, the Yankees have lost against underdog teams like the Arizona Diamondbacks (2001) and the Florida Marlins (2003). This
season, the head-to-head matchup has favored the Phillies. While the Yankees lead the all-time series 15-10, the Phillies won two
out of three in the season series this year in Yankees Stadium.

This Fall Classic features some of the most prominent players in the MLB. Former Cy Young winners Pedro Martinez, Cliff
Lee, and C.C. Sabathia along with World Series MVPs Mariano Rivera and Cole Hamels will toe the rubber against some
of the best hitters in the game. These sluggers include the likes of former World Series MVP Derek Jeter and
regular-season MVPs Alex Rodriguez, Ryan Howard, and Jimmy Rollins. This caliber of players is sure to produce late-inning drama and
a long series of six or seven games. In the past five years, three of the Series have been four-game
sweeps while the other two were only five games. No World Series has gone the full length of seven games
since the Angels defeated the Giants in 2002. With evenly matched teams this season, I cannot imagine a Series that
will not go at least six games.

All the superstars aside, the teams’ bullpens could likely be the decisive factor in who claims the championship. Besides Mariano
Rivera, the Yankees have no one in the bullpen who has proved reliable this postseason. Joba Chamberlain and Phil Hughes
have been the Yankees’ go-to guys out of the bullpen this season, but this postseason neither of them has performed
consistently in pressure-packed situations. On the Phillies’ side, Brad Lidge, who was perfect both in regular season and postseason play
last season, struggled throughout this regular season. He blew 11 saves and posted an earned run average of 7.21. In
the playoffs, Lidge has returned to his postseason form of a year ago, but Philadelphia fans still have to be
nervous every time he comes in to close the door with a small lead.

Now, it’s time to see how all of these exciting matchups play out as the teams take the field in
Yankees Stadium tonight in Game 1 of what will...Hopefully be a fantastic series.

Late goals stun ’Cats in heartbreaking losses

ZACHARY ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson men’s soccer team got off to a great start this season, but recently has hit a rough patch. They
traveled to Blacksburg, Virginia on Tuesday to face off against Virginia Tech but came up short and lost by a
score of 1-0. Despite playing a great defensive game, Davidson lost as a result of an own goal in the
last minute of play. Virginia Tech’s Andrew Baden kicked the ball in the six-yard box off of a corner kick
and it deflected off a Davidson defender into the net giving Virginia Tech the 1-0 lead and the game.

Davidson had many offensive scoring attempts but could not capitalize. In one instance, Alex Caskey ’11 and Charlie Reiter ’10
had back-to-back scoring attempts with 18 minutes left in regulation but could not convert. Yannick Pilgrim ’11 nearly scored with
12 minutes remaining, but the Virginia Tech keeper registered his third save of the game.

In their last home conference match, Davidson hosted Wofford on Senior Night on Saturday. Putting up a great fight, they
fell by a score of 1-0, nearly sending the match into overtime. The Davidson crowd was immense and there were
over 1700 fans at Alumni Stadium for the matchup against Wofford. Until the 87:37 mark, the game was scoreless. Wofford’s
Kentrel Owens took advantage of a ball misplayed at midfield and sped past the fierce Davidson defense. Chip Sanders ’12
came out to challenge Owens and did a good job deflecting his first shot. Owens collected the ball ten yards
out and was successful with his second attempt, to put Wofford up 1-0 and seal the game.

Davidson played a great defensive game despite the loss, only allowing one shot on goal which decided the match. As
it stands, Davidson is third in the SoCon and has one more match against a SoCon opponent, at UNCG on
Halloween. The Wildcats lost 4-1 to No. 2 Wake Forest on Tuesday night in Winston-Salem, N.C. The Wildcats were just
not able to keep up with one of the best teams in the country. This loss brings the ’Cats’ record
to 10-6 overall and 3-3 in SoCon play.

Football (2-5, 2-3)
Results:
10/24 vs. Drake L 16-21
Next Up:
10/31 @ Butler
Notes: The Wildcat defense loss to Drake as Tyler Lemons ’10 led the team with two sacks on the afternoon.

Field Hockey (5-11, 1-5)
Results:
10/24 vs. App. State W 5-2
10/27 @ #2 Wake Forest L 1-4
Next Up:
10/31 vs. Longwood
Notes: Clare Perry ’11 and Jenny Mostellar ’11 combined for three goals and three assists as the 'Cats notched their
first NorPac win of the season.

Men’s Soccer (10-6-0, 3-3-0)
Results:
10/24 vs. Wofford L 0-1
Next Up:
10/31 @ UNCG
11/3 @ Campbell
Notes: The Wildcats conclude conference play with a trip to UNCG to take on the Spartans in a game with
major SoCon tournament implications.

Women’s Soccer (10-9-1, 6-3-1)
Results:
10/23 @ Chattanooga W 4-2
10/25 @ Samford T 1-1
Next Up:
10/31 vs. Georgia Southern
Notes: The ’Cats extended their unbeaten streak to five games with Sunday’s tie at Samford.

Volleyball (6-20, 3-7)
Results:
10/23 vs. WCU W 3-2
10/25 vs. App. State W 3-2
Next Up:
10/30 vs. Wofford
10/31 vs. Furman
Notes: With a pair of come-from-behind victories, the Wildcats won back-to-back games for the first time this season.

Men’s and Women’s Cross Country
Next Up:
10/31 SoCon Championships
Notes: The Wildcats took a week off in preparation for next week’s Southern Conference Championships to be held at Elon
University.
