12

Curry earns first team All-America honors

Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

Stephen Curry ’10 added to his already extensive list of accolades on Monday when the Associated Press named him a
First Team All-American. Curry was joined on the first team by Oklahoma forward Blake Griffin, Pittsburgh forward DeJuan Blair, North
Carolina forward Tyler Hansbrough, and Arizona State guard James Harden.

Curry is an All-American for the second time, having been named to the second team last year after Davidson’s run
to the Elite 8, which culminated with Curry being named the Most Outstanding Player of the Midwest Regional. Curry had
already been named a first team All-American by the Sporting News and the United States Basketball Writers Association.

The award comes after Curry led the nation in scoring with 28.6 points per game. He was also 13th in
the nation in steals at 2.6 per game and 6th in the nation in foul-shooting at 87.6%. Curry supplemented his
scoring with 4.3 rebounds and 5.7 assists per game.

The honor is the latest in a staggering list of Curry’s accomplishments over his three-year Wildcat career. He is currently
a finalist for the USBWA player of the year award and a finalist for the Naismith Award, also given to
the nation’s player of the year. In addition, he is a finalist for the Bob Cousy Award, given to the
nation’s best point guard.

Among his myriad of honors from previous years are the 2008 Sporting News College Athlete of the Year, 2008 Southern
Conference Male Athlete of the Year, 2008 and 2009 Southern Conference Player of the Year, and 2007 Southern Conference Freshman
of the Year.

Curry’s nigh-endless string of accolades came despite the fact that Curry spent the season making the transition from shooting guard
to point guard. It was a transition he made relatively seamlessly, leading Davidson to the Southern Conference regular season championship.
It was Curry’s sprained ankle on Valentine’s Day against Furman that began the downspin that characterized the end to the
Wildcats’ season.

Davidson managed to grind out an ugly win without Curry against the Paladins before being humiliated by the Citadel 64-46
without Curry and falling 75-63 to Butler with Curry still gimpy from the injury. These defeats ended any chance Davidson
had of receiving an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament.

See Curry, page 11

---

Photo by Aaron Robinson
Stephen Curry ’10 was selected as an AP first team All-American after leading the nation in scoring with 28.6 ppg.
Curry also averaged 5.7 apg while helping Davidson to a 27-8 record.

---

Player of the Week
Virginia Berry ’10
TENNIS

SPARTANBURG, SOUTH CAROLINA

The junior rallied from behind to earn a 4-6, 7-5, 6-1 victory in No. 2 singles in the Wildcats’ 4-3
win over Samford on Sunday. The singles victory was Berry's team-leading 12th of the season and fourth in a row.
She is now a perfect 6-0 in SoCon singles matches.

Molly Verlin ’11 takes a swing in the Wildcats’ improved to 9-8 overall and 4-2 in SoCon play.

Women’s tennis finishes big week with sweep of SoCon foes

ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

The women’s tennis team played three matches over the course of three days starting with a home decision on Friday.
The Cats easily defeated Cal State Bakersfield 7-0 on Friday afternoon. Both of the Wildcats’ doublesPairs took home a win
for the team. Number one spot team Virginia Berry ’10 and Michele Fanney ’09 and number three seed duo Ali
Gores ’10 and Molly McDevitt ’12 both won their decisions. In the individual contests, Fanney, Berry, Gores, McDevitt, Samantha Galainena
’11, and Alison Rauh ’11 all brought home wins. The Wildcats continued their weekend of play with an away match
against UT-Chattanooga. The ’Cats secured a 4-3 win over the Mocs. In doubles play, Gores and McDevitt once again proved
to be a tough match for the Mocs. Fanney, Berry, and Galainena all won their individual matches, as well.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, April 1, 2009

Photo by Aaron Robinson

On Sunday, the ’Cats traveled to Birmingham to take on Samford University. Davidson walked away with a 4-3 win over
their conference foe. The Wildcats won four of their six singles matches. For the doubles play, the Gores and McDevitt
tandem played a tough match, winning over their Samford competition. The ’Cats return to their home court for their next
match as the team takes on UNC-Greensboro April 1 at 3 p.m.

Baseball splits with App. State
Jan Qua
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats split a rain-soaked series against Appalachian State this weekend at Wilson Field. Davidson’s game on Friday was
cancelled and the Saturday game was suspended in the fourth inning, leading to a Sunday day-night doubleheader. The Wildcats finished
their Saturday game during the day on Sunday and won in walk-off fashion, with center fielder Chase Fitzpatrick ’09 belting
a solo shot in the bottom of the ninth to secure a 9-8 victory. Davidson was unable to muster any
more heroics in the nightcap, which the Mountaineers won 15-5.

Davidson powered their way to victory in the first game, scoring six of their nine runs off of home runs.
Davidson came back from Saturday’s rain delay on Sunday swinging the bats well. First baseman Danny Weiss ’11 and left
fielder Drew Gadaire ’12 hit back-to-back bombs to propel Davidson to a five-run fifth inning; Weiss hit a three-run shot
that drove in Pat Brady ’09 and Sam Payne ’11 while Gadaire followed with his solo shot. Fitzpatrick continued the
home run trend with his ninth-inning blast to finish off Appalachian State.

The Wildcats sent five pitchers to the mound in the win. Lefty Thomas Middour ’10 made the start for Davidson,
going a solid four innings giving up two runs (one earned) on three hits while striking out five Mountaineer batters.
Chris Lamb ’12, Mac Hunter ’11, Mike Frongello ’11, and Matt Webb ’09 combined to finish off the game with
Webb picking up the win. Frongello had the strongest bullpen performance of the four; he made quick work of Appalachian
State in the seventh, allowing no hits and needing only 15 pitches to retire the side.

See Baseball, page 10

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Fitzpatrick’s walk-off home run gives ’Cats 9-8 victory

With the score tied 8-8 in the bottom of the ninth, Chase Fitzpatrick ’09 hit a one-out walk-off home run
to left field off of Appalachian State closer Zach Quate to give the Wildcats a 9-8 victory in the first
game of Sunday’s Southern Conference doubleheader.
