2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRANCISCO FIALLO
Staff Writer

Upcoming changes to the chartering process could introduce limits on funding for student organizations. At the Student Government Association’s (SGA) meeting last Thursday, President Davis Greene '09 outlined a set of reforms intended to maintain the “sustainability and uniqueness” of organizations that would include annual reviews by the Charters and Bylaws Committee.

Currently, charters are renewed by the Charters and Bylaws Committee chair, who operates without guidelines or requirements. The new system, which was developed by Greene, Charters and Bylaws Committee chair Emily Cannon ’09, and Coordinator of Student Activities William Brown, would split organizations into five groups: those that are registered, those with a provisional charter, and those with class I, II, and III charters.

Registered organizations would be allowed to reserve rooms, hold fundraisers, advertise in The Crier, and recruit members at the activities fair, but could not receive funds from the Activities Tax Council (ATC). The ATC would approve provisional charters and allow up to $350 in funding, providing the organization had drafted a written constitution. Organizations with class I and II charters would have their funds capped at $1,000 and $10,000 respectively. Organizations with class III charters would have unlimited funds and be able to pay their members. To avoid runaway increases in compensation to students, pay would be limited to one percent of total funds (which were $546,150 for the 2008-09 academic year).

If this system were implemented, members of the ATC and the Charters and Bylaws Committee would classify existing organizations into the three classes of charters, based on evaluations of an organization’s “activities, uniqueness, co-sponsorships, and use of funding.” Future organizations would have restrictions imposed on how much they could grow in a given year: an organization would have to be registered for 45 days until it could apply for a provisional charter. Organizations with a provisional charter would have to hold it for either a calendar year or until March of the next academic year, whichever is shorter, at which point they could apply for a class I charter. The same waiting period would be required for class I organizations seeking class II status, and class II groups seeking class III charters.

The limits on growth worried some students: first-year senator Jordan Starck '12 asked whether an organization with even modest start-up costs could get started. Kiara Boone ’11 responded that emergency allocations were available from the ATC for organizations that need more than $350 to accomplish their goals.

At the meeting, Greene mentioned one way the school is coping with the difficult economic climate: the trustees will be expanding the class of 2013 to 495 students to make up for the shortfall in revenue caused by the endowment’s steep decline. He was asked by Director of Residence Life Patty Perillo to consider adjustments to accommodate the larger freshman class. Independent Senator Severin Tucker ’09 suggested that rooms on the first and fourth floors of Belk Dorm be used to house first-year students. Greene replied that those options were being considered, but the fact that most rooms on the fourth floor of Belk were singles made it unlikely that they could be used as first-year housing. Senator Lauren Robles '10 expressed concern that having such a large class would weaken the student/faculty ratio, especially in light of the college’s announced hiring freeze, to which senior class president Richmond Blake '09 pointed out that the class of 2007 included 485 students, and reminded the SGA of former Davidson College President Robert Vagt ’69’s metaphor of the College as a snake that would sometimes “swallow a large meal” which would then work its way out of the snake.

SGA President
SGA Vice President
Union Board President
Union Board Vice President
Activities Tax Council Vice Chair
Defense Advisors
Student Solicitors
Student Conduct Council Reps
Council on Campus and Religious Life Reps
Review Board Rep
Student Election Result
United Community Action President

Colby Howard ’12, Brian Platter '12,
Meikaela Zwierzyński '10
Baker Shogry '10
Allison Ruhe '10
Quentin Graham '10
Elizabeth Lacks '10
Christie Mason '10
Claire Peterson '10, John Jertson '10
Jennifer DeKnight '10, Marshall Oelson '10
Annaliese Rosenthal '10, Andy Jones '10
Michele Torsiglieri '10, Chelsea Heath '10
Daisy Karlson '11

TOWNHOME FOR RENT
2 bedroom, 2 bath townhome in Davidson, within 1 mile of the school featuring: cozy fireplace, appliances, water utilities, and a nice courtyard
CONTACT: BECKY STARR 704-662-6049 $750Month 1 week free for the first month! 

Green Week events continue Year of Sustainability

-RACHEL ANDERSON AND UPASANA KHATRI
Environmental Interns

Davidson’s Year of Sustainability continues with a week perhaps even greener than the rest. Green Week, an annual Davidson tradition, will take place this year from Feb. 9 to 13 and will consist of several days of programs put on by the Environmental Action Coalition (EAC), a student organization whose work is targeted at raising environmental awareness on campus and promoting efforts toward making Davidson College more sustainable. Events will include everything from arts and crafts to service projects, and even a ball will top it off.

Davidson alum Kealy Devoy ’08, current Sustainability Fellow and former EAC secretary, describes the organization’s motivation for hosting Green Week and its approach to appealing to a campus-wide audience. “The EAC wanted to educate Davidson’s campus about environmental issues, both locally and globally,” Devoy explained. “We felt that a good way to do this would be to hold several events over a short period of time that would draw students from many backgrounds and groups. We aim to keep programming varied and interesting, so that something appeals to everyone.”

With its diverse assortment of programs this year, Green Week might just offer something of interest for everyone. The week will start off Monday, Feb. 9, with “Wear Green Day” and the inclusion of special “green” items like “Green Eggs & Ham” (spinach and ham quiche) on the Union Café menu, which will be offered throughout the week.

For the service-oriented, on Wednesday, Feb. 11, the EAC will host a community service project at the Ada Jenkins Community Center, organized by Peggy McKay ’10. Volunteers will work on Ada Jenkins’s community garden, a local project which provides fresh produce to its gardeners—the senior citizens who take their lunches at the community center.

In the evening, award-winning journalist Paul Roberts, author of “The End of Oil” and “The End of Food,” will present a lecture, “The End of Food: Injustices in the Global Food System,” at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union. Roberts plans to examine the complex interplay of the environment, politics, economics, and technology which he explores in his books and through his work as a journalist, paying close attention to the issues of energy and oil. Roberts, whose most recent book addresses injustices in the food system, is a long-time observer of energy issues and politics. His vast experiences in the field of journalism include writing for such prestigious publications as The Washington Post, USA Today, Newsweek, The Christian Science Monitor, and Rolling Stone, and appearing regularly on national and international television and radio news shows such as CNN American Morning and NPR’s Morning Edition. The lecture will be followed by a book signing.

Roberts will also host a roundtable discussion, open to all, at 3:00 p.m. in Union 302, and a Wednesday Dean Rusk Breakfast Series on the oil crisis Thursday morning.

Thursday night, from 7:00 to 9:00 p.m., the EAC will hold a valentine-making workshop in the Union Atrium, with a sustainable twist. Participants will have the opportunity to make valentines for their loved ones out of recycled and reused material collected from campus recycling bins.

Green Week will culminate Friday, Feb. 13, with the EAC’s Fifth Annual Green Ball, a fundraiser for the Davidson Lands Conservancy, a local non-profit that works to preserve green areas and protect biodiversity in the town of Davidson. Contra dancing—a form of traditional folk dancing comparable to square or line dancing in which couples dance in two facing lines—and bluegrass music, performed by Asheville band Appalachian Storm, will be the order of the night. According to Devoy, neither previous contra dancing experience nor a date is required, as guests will be given dance instructions before each song and will be encouraged to switch partners after each dance, as is tradition. The Eco-House, Davidson College’s very own ecological cooperative, will provide refreshments, and a silent auction featuring prizes such as vacation rentals, cooking lessons, and the work of local artists will be held throughout the night. The Green Ball in the Lilly Gallery will run from 7:30 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. Tickets for the event may be purchased throughout Green Week at the Union for $10 ($12 at the door, $5 children).

In their capacity as Environmental Interns, Rachel and Upasana seek to publicize both on- and off-campus environmental happenings.