16 Wrestling secures first SoCon victory Team’s first-ever win over VMI PETER COSTAS Staff Writer

After dropping their last two meets to top ACC teams Virginia Tech and UNC, the Wildcats came home on Sunday
to take on the Virginia Military Institute in a Southern Conference battle. VMI came into the meet with a record
of 0-1 in the Southern Conference and 0-5 overall, so the Wildcats saw this as an opportunity to get their
Southern Conference record back to .500 (1-1).

The match started at the 141-pound weight class. Vitaly Radsky ’11 took an early 6-2 lead over VMI’s David Yost
and won 10-5, giving the Wildcats a 3-0 lead. Davidson extended their lead to 7-0 after the 149-pound weight class
match, as David DeCamp ’12 took down VMI’s Joe Munno by a final tally of 13-5. VMI got on the
scoreboard after the 157-pound weight class match as Michael Long defeated Carl Sandercock ’10 10-3, which cut the Wildcat lead
to 7-3. Tyler Mullen ’12, wrestling in the 165-pound weight class, pinned VMI’s Kyle Elgert in 1:28 to give the
Wildcats a commanding 13-3 lead. VMI fought back in the 174-pound weight class, as Andrew Szymborski defeated Kevin Cook ’09
4-0, which cut the Wildcats' lead to 13-6. In the 184-pound weight class, Sam O’Hair ’09 extended the Wildcats' lead
to 17-6 after he defeated VMI’s Jayme Gordon 15-3.

The Wildcats seemed to have the meet pretty much locked up until VMI’s Ronnie Ellsworth and Josh Wine each won
a match at the 197 and 285-pound weight classes respectively. Ellsworth defeated Jorge Estrada ’12 4-1, which cut the Wildcat
lead to 17-9, and when Wine defeated Charlie Wolff ’11 5-0, the lead dwindled to just five. With just two
matches remaining, the Wildcats needed strong performances from Ben Altman ’10 at the 125-pound weight class and Alex Radsky ’11
at the 133-pound weight class. Altman came up with a clutch performance as he wrestled away a victory from VMI’s
John Pope. Down by a score of 6-3 early in the match, Altman was able to tie the score at
six heading into an overtime period. Just twenty seconds into the overtime period, Altman scored a two-point takedown, giving him
the 8-6 win. This takedown pushed the overall lead for the Wildcats to 20-12. In the final match, Radsky fended
off VMI’s Michael Bowman by a score of 4-2, which gave the Wildcats a 23-12 victory.

The Wildcats now own a 4-8 record overall and a 1-1 record in the Southern Conference. They will go for
their second consecutive victory when they host UNC-Greensboro on Jan. 29 at 7 p.m.

‘Cats continue ho Ray FRANCIS Staff Writer

Davidson’s search for competition in the Southern Conference continued to be unfruitful as the Wildcats buried Wofford 79-56 on Saturday
and destroyed Furman 83-43 last Wednesday. The 23-point victory over the Terriers allowed Davidson to extend its conference winning streak
to 39 straight games. The Wildcats were led by Stephen Curry’s ’10 33 points and seven three-pointers. Curry also had
seven rebounds and seven assists. Will Archambault ’10 continued his recent hot streak with 12 points and Andrew Lovedale ’09
scored 12 points and hauled in six rebounds despite missing a significant portion of the first half with foul trouble.

The Wildcats flew out of the gate, taking a 20-6 lead eight minutes into the game and looked as though
they would put the game away easily. The Terriers, however, maintained their poise and mustered a 17-7 run to close
within 27-23 with six minutes to play in the first half. Curry asserted himself at that point, hitting a 3
to begin a 19-6 run to finish the half that placed Davidson in firm control of the game. Wofford could
come no closer than 20 points over the final 16 minutes of the game, allowing coach Bob McKillop to substitute
liberally as the game came to a close. Reserve Can Civi ’09 and highly-touted freshman Frank Ben-Eze ’12, each scored
a field goal in the game's waning moments.

The game was the 25th in Cur-ee. Curry’s career in which he scored 30 or more points, breaking the school
record held by all-time leading scorer John Gerdy ’79. It was also the 10th game of the season of over
30 points for Curry, one off the record he set last year. Junior Salters led the Terriers with 16 points.
Earlier in the week, Davidson was at the height of its powers against a hapless Furman squad.

See Wofford, page 13

Alum examines final moments of NCAA run

Michael Kruse ’00 is the author of “Taking the Shot: The Davidson Basketball Moment.” Kruse’s book examines the final moments
of last year’s NCAA regional championship game between Davidson and eventual national champion Kansas—how people experienced the conclusion of Davidson’s
March-run and the years of dedication that went into the creation of that moment. The Davidsonian sat down with Kruse
before last Saturday's match-up against Wofford. The following are excerpts from the interview.

D: Could you describe for our readers, those who haven’t read the book, what the underlying focus is and how
your idea came about?

MK: I chose to focus on the last moment of the Kansas game, just because I found it so powerful
and packed with emotion. I don’t just mean tears-emotion, but people experienced that moment in a very meaningful way. I
know I did, and other people around me did, and as I started to ask rudimentary questions of different people,
it became clear that I wasn’t alone in that. That moment, even though it ended the way it did, maybe
because it ended the way it did, meant a lot of things to a lot of people. So, the aim,
the goal, was to examine that moment and explore the concept of loss, and what was gained in spite of
loss, what was gained because of loss. I should also say, I experienced that moment the way I experienced it
because I knew, maybe more than the casual follower of Davidson basketball, how much had gone into the creation of
that moment. Regardless of how that moment ended up. Nineteen years of McKillop here, of building the program from zero,
essentially. Four years of Jason, two crazy years for Stephen, all the other guys on the team, Andrew making the
improvements he had made to get to that point. So, to me that moment was important because it was the
reward for sticking with something you believe in. Here was this reward, but the ending wasn’t ‘Hoosiers.’ But in a
way, the reward was more interesting than ‘Hoosiers.’ I don’t know if I would have written this book—a book, certainly
not this book—if that shot had gone in. That would also be fine, but it’s not as interesting to me
as the shot doesn’t go in and now what. What’s the response to coming up a yard short. Not to
take too many leaps, and turn too philosophical, but there are lots of ‘coming up a yard short’ in your
life, your work, your relationships. What do you do when that happens—because it does inevitably happen. How do you deal
with disappointment, how do you deal with loss? And how do you take what’s good and what’s teachable out of
a moment like that?

D: You described your own reaction to the moment as very powerful and packed with emotion. What type of emotion?
Both anticipating the shot, and after—

See The Shot, page 13

Player of the Week: Stephen Curry

MEN’S BASKETBALL

The junior guard earned SoCon Player of the Week honors for a conference record sixth time this season. Curry averaged
31.5 points and 6.0 assists while shooting 63% from the field in the Wildcats’ victories over Furman and Wofford last
week. He has now earned conference player of the week honors 14 times in his career.

Sieracki runs to 3rd place finish in mile at UNC Classic

CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA

Thad Sieracki ’09 recorded a 3rd place finish in the finals of the mile run at the UNC Classic with
a time of 4:21.95. The 3rd place finish was the senior’s first indoor podium finish of his career.
