Just BARELY

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009

40% OF REMAINING ENDOWMENT GAM-
BLED AWAY ON ARIZONA CARDINALS
SEE PAGE 2

CAMPUS POLICE BROADENS SEARCH
FOR CHALK VANDALS
SEE PAGE 5

PRETENTIOUS STUDENT HIGHLIGHTS
ENTIRE PAGE OF TEXT
SEE PAGE 10

98% OF HANDICAP BUTTON USERS
ARE COMPLETELY HEALTHY
SEE PAGE 4

OF THE WEEK

SEARCH “BOOGIE BOOGIE HEDGEHOG”

Your Davidson Honor Section
Editors:
Alex Greening
Gary Busey

Writers:
Amanda Ottaway
Brett Chikowski

Note: The Yow! is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

Temporal Ambiguity Strikes Again; Chaos Reigns

Duke Dormitory - Junior Aaron Murphy composed a message to his fellow members of the Davidson Grandfather Clock Enthusiast Club
shortly before going to bed Monday.

“I just fired off a reminder about the meeting on Tuesday afternoon. Now I feel like I unintentionally flipped the
bird to God, Father Time, and my grandpa all at once.”

Murphy sent his email at 12:11 a.m. Though in his mind it was still Monday night, the seamless transition to
early Tuesday morning had already occurred. When the rest of the club accessed the message mid-morning on Tuesday, they took
“tomorrow” to mean Wednesday.

“The results have been catastrophic,” Julie Tompkins ’10 said. One of the few students to get the email while awake,
Tompkins understood the message from the author’s perspective and showed up on time.

“We were supposed to complete an application for a grandfather clock in Commons! Now we’re just going to get more
of those flatscreens like in the Union!” she ranted. “No character or personality at all.”

Murphy has sworn to never repeat his error, but the GCE Club is reportedly considering a vote of “No Confidence.”

Area Man “Too Friendly”

Davidson - Jeff Caldwell, 33, was dining by himself at Toast Thursday evening when he caught himself being “too friendly.”
Caldwell had just finished ordering dinner when his attractive, young waitress took his menu and told him to enjoy his
meal.

“Thanks, you too!” Caldwell said. The waitress looked confused for a moment before continuing back to the kitchen.

“Then I realized my mistake. She wasn’t about to enjoy a meal. What have I done with myself?”

Caldwell, who owns and maintains the website PuppyClipArt.com, says he is too embarrassed to ever return to the restaurant.

Caldwell: too nice?

Football Broadcast Interrupts American Commercial Finals

Tampa - Super Bowl Extra-Large 3 consisted of the usual amount of tackles, catches, field goals, and gorilla-sized men pounding
their chests and slapping each other’s rear ends. Yet according to a recent AP poll, America no longer tunes in
for the shenanigans on the field, but concentrates instead on the equally time-consuming commercials that fill in the gaps every
time somebody falls over. NBC, in cooperation with this emerging trend, sponsored a nationwide text-message vote for Commercial MVP, as
opposed to Game MVP.

“Who watches the football anymore?” said NBC spokesperson John LaRus. “My family loves nothing more on game day than to
TiVo straight to the commercials and eat our pigs in a blanket.”

Defending champion Budweiser continued to dominate the commercial scene with its “Drinkability” campaign. Doritos, the dark horse, pulled out a
fantastic showing thanks to its Crystal Ball ad, and Pepsi Max’s “I’m Good” delivered an admirable performance despite injuries. But
it was underdog Bridgestone Tire that stepped its game up to a new level, thanks to clutch performers Mr. and
Mrs. Potato Head.

“My wife and I have worked very hard to get here,” Mr. Potato Head stated in a press conference this
morning. “If you want to go all the way you need to be prepared to make sacrifices.” Sacrifices listed included
loss of facial features, ears, and credibility in the spud community. Mrs. Potato Head was unavailable for comment due to
the unfortunate loss of her lips during the filming of the commercial.

New Psychology Study Reveals Truth Behind Seat Choice

A ground-breaking new study conducted by students and faculty of the Psychology Department reveals the true reasoning behind seat choice
in the classroom.

“This is revolutionary. Our findings are important within the scientific community but have astonishing real-world importance and applications as well,”
said department head Faroush Jadeed.

Researchers report that the relative distance from the professor is the strongest link to performance on written work, involvement in
discussion, and overall likelihood to succeed in life.

“The further back you go, the less likely it is the student did the work. They are more prone to
daydreaming during class than the front-row kids.”

This contrasts sharply with the findings for discussion-style classrooms.

“In the discussion-circle classes, much work remains to be done. It occurs most frequently in English classes, which in my
opinion, are hardly worth the student’s time.”

Jadeed explained that much of this is due to the more casual nature of the English classes.

“Two out of every three students are actually reflecting on the material, drawing links with other texts and analyzing their
reading assignments. The final third is inexplicably and invariably pondering how birds mix #1 and #2 into the same mixture.
We call this the ‘number one and a half’ syndrome.”

If you see someone in the library, they have a lot of work to do. Don’t waste their time asking
them if they have work.
