10 The Davidsonian

Cats end losing streak

JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

After enduring a three-game road trip to open the season, the women’s soccer squad returned home this weekend for competition against Villanova and Francis Marion. The teams netted 10 goals on the weekend, with one lopsided loss and one equally lopsided win for the Wildcats.

Friday night’s action at Alumni Stadium witnessed Davidson taking on the Villanova Wildcats. In the first ever meeting between these two programs, the visiting squad from Pennsylvania unleashed a brief offensive fury from which the home team couldn’t rebound. For the first 20 minutes or so, the game shifted back and forth inside the lines, suggesting an even match between the blue and white jerseys. If anything, the ’Cats controlled the flow of the game. Following a Villanova corner in minute 22, however, a scramble in Davidson’s box led to the visiting Wildcats’ first goal of the game. Five chaotic minutes later and the visiting team had extended that lead to 3-0. Each goal provided a distinct challenge for the Davidson defense, ranging from goalpost deflections to long crosses across the box. It was a prime exercise, if nothing else, for the variety of situations the team will face heading into conference play in three weeks.

Even during those frantic minutes in the first half, the Wildcat offense frequently struck at Villanova’s back line, sending a slew of shots on goal. But despite the repeated efforts of Allison Drutchas ’11, Blakely Low ’10, and Courtney Hart ’10, the attempts narrowly missed grazing the back of the net. The second half started off as evenly as the first, while Villanova refused to budge to the Davidson advances. Fifteen minutes in, another Villanova goal more or less put the game away at 4-0. In the midst of the scattered and sporadic gameplay, Jessie Baxa’s ’12 solid four saves in goal prevented a more lopsided score.

The home team wasn’t quite through. Shifting substitutions in and out throughout the half, the team finally let its veteran star work her magic in the match’s closing minutes. After a loose ball reached the Villanova end of the field, Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10 took a rip from the corner of the box, putting Davidson on the board.

Sunday’s game against Francis Marion began slowly, as the ’Cats were still rebuilding their composure from Friday’s loss. The first 44 minutes saw an empty scoreboard, though the home team steadily improved its offensive possession in front of the supportive Alumni Stadium crowd. Veteran attackers Bye-Nagel, Low, Drutchas, and Katharine Laco ’10 pelted Francis Marion with shots on goal. Eventually, the Patriots from Florence, SC, gave in to the continuous assault. The final push would come from a rookie renegade. As a Davidson lob sailed high into the Francis Marion box, several defenders jumped for a header. Rachael Newmister ’13 thwarted their attempts and sent the ball into the back of the net for a 1-0 Davidson lead.

For the first time in three games, the ’Cats rallied in the halftime locker room with all the game’s momentum behind them. From Newmister’s first collegiate goal, the squad propelled itself into a second half offensive fury. Drutchas tallied her first career goal just a minute and a half into the period off a free kick from just outside the box. Her corners and set balls provided the Wildcats a dangerous threat on offense that played to their advantage for the rest of the game. Finding the net for the third Davidson score of the afternoon, Low shook her defender right in front of the goal and wrapped a volley past the near post. Less than seven minutes after Low’s performance, another freshman etched her name into the scoring column. Rachel Barnett ’13 earned her first NCAA score, releasing a laser from 25 yards out. In the first four instances, Wildcat scorers...

Oregon makes right call on punch

MIKE FRONGELLO
Sports Section Editor

The University of Oregon football team entered the 2009 season with a preseason national ranking and national title aspirations. Ducks’ star running back LaGarrette Blount fostered Heisman and NFL dreams of his own. In Thursday’s season-opening 19-8 loss at No. 14 Boise State, all of those dreams were shockingly crushed. Blount ran eight times for a loss of five yards, but it was his actions after the game that proved to be far worse than his ugly rushing performance.

During the postgame handshake at midfield, Blount was tapped on the shoulder pad by celebrating Boise State defensive end Byron Hout. Before Boise State head coach Chris Peterson could pull his taunting player away, Blount landed a right hook to Hout’s jaw. Had Blount’s unsportsmanlike display stopped there, I may not be writing this article. Unfortunately for Blount, he did not seize control of his emotions after the initial punch. As teammates and coaches attempted to restrain him, Blount began fighting his own team, including hitting two of his own teammates in the facemask. Just when it seemed that he was finally restrained, Blount began bickering with the Boise State fans as he exited the field. Police had to restrain the senior running back from the heckling fans, and he finally made his way to the visiting locker room.

To his credit, immediately following the game, Blount did apologize for his actions during an interview with reporters. “It was just something that I shouldn’t have done. I lost my head... I couldn’t have envisioned anything worse than this right here,”Blount told reporters after the game. Unfortunately for Blount, it did get worse on Friday when Oregon head coach Chip Kelly suspended his star running back for the entire 2009 season. It was obviously a very difficult decision for the first-year coach, but one that needed to be made. Some will consider the penalty too harsh. Some will consider the penalty too light and believe Blount should no longer be a member of the Oregon football team. As the Oregon President and Athletic Director pointed out, Blount’s actions were the kind that cannot be condoned, but ultimately a stern, yet fair punishment was reached. Now, Oregon will be without one of their best players for the rest of the season, making their goal of a Pac-10 conference championship that much more difficult. But all is not lost for Blount who still has ample opportunity to redeem himself. Rather than dismiss Blount from the team, Kelly merely suspended him, which means Blount will still be on scholarship and still be able to practice with the team.

Football
(0-1)
Results:
9/5 @ #11 Elon L 0-56
Next Up:
9/12 vs. Lenoir-Rhyne
Notes: Justin Williams ’11 led the Wildcat offense with 132 all-purpose yards in the loss at Elon.

Field Hockey
(2-2)
Results:
9/4 @ Georgetown W 1-0 (OT)
9/5 vs. Cornell L 1-3 (OT)
Next Up:
9/8 vs. #4 UNC
9/12 vs. Indiana
Notes: Annie Evans ’13 first career goal was the difference in the ’Cats’ overtime road victory over Georgetown.

Men’s Soccer
(1-0)
Results:
9/5 vs. USC-Upstate W 3-2
Next Up:
9/11 vs. UNC-Asheville
9/13 vs. Coastal Carolina
Notes: Preseason All-SoCon selection Alex Caskey ’11 recorded his first goal of the season in the 3-2 victory over USC-Upstate.

The political science major should make the most of this opportunity by completing his degree and helping his team get better in practice every day. Blount will most likely have a long way to go in repairing his image with his teammates and NFL scouts. Experts say Blount entered the season as a 2nd or 3rd round NFL draft prospect, but after Thursday’s incident he is no longer a draftable prospect. Blount may still have a shot at making an NFL roster as an undrafted free agent next fall, but much of that will depend on how much he grows as a person in the next year. With his NFL prospects appearing dim, it’s more important than ever that Blount earn a college degree to prepare himself for a life without football. It is sad to see a young man throw so much away with one foolish act, but Blount still has everything ahead of him. Being forced to watch his team play without him this season will undoubtedly be difficult, but hopefully this situation will have a lasting effect on him. By allowing him to retain his scholarship, Coach Kelly and Oregon have given Blount a chance to redeem himself. I hope Blount learns from his mistake, and one day I hope to see him on an NFL football field, but at the very least he'll have a college degree to fall back on if he makes the most of this opportunity.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2009

with five-goal outburst against FMU-ers took matters into their own hands with unassisted performances. But thanks to the adept coordination of Newmister and Callan Elswick ’11, Davidson put together a team effort for the fifth and final goal of the game. Elswick received a through ball from the freshman inside the box that she deftly maneuvered into the near side of the net. The ’Cats dominated the record books for this match. The squad more than tripled the Patriot shot total, 27-7, with Davidson providing two-thirds of that tally in its second half barrage. Nearly every player on the home team sent one shot toward the net, including almost all of the relief players. For a team that struggled through a long road trip and tough home opener, this game gracefully capped off the weekend. Of course, credit must be allotted to the defensive ferocity of the Wildcats, who posted their first shutout of the season. Between the pipes, Loring Ward ’10 recorded her first shutout of the season. With support from seniors and freshmen alike, the team spread out its array of talents.

This week, the squad hosts local rival UNC-Charlotte in Alumni Stadium at 7 p.m. on Thursday, September 10. The ’Cats then embark on a five-game road trip, with a Sunday game at High Point leading into the final stretch of the pre-conference schedule. Callan Elswick ’11 notched her first goal of the season in the Wildcats’ 5-0 rout of Francis Marion on Sunday. Elswick was one of five different Wildcats to score in the game.

Women’s Soccer
(2-3)
Results:
9/4 vs. Villanova L 1-4
9/6 vs. Francis Marion W 5-0
Next Up:
9/10 vs. Charlotte
9/13 @ High Point
Notes: Rachael Newmister ’13 and Rachel Barnett ’13 each scored their first career goals in the Wildcats’ 5-0 win over Francis Marion.

Volleyball
(2-5)
Results:
9/5 @ High Point W 3-0
9/5 vs. Marshall L 1-3
9/6 vs. WSSU W 3-0
Next Up:
Wildcat Classic
9/12 vs. Radford
9/12 vs. Canisius
Notes: After opening with two road tournaments, the ’Cats play three home games this weekend.

Men’s and Women’s Cross Country
Results:
9/5 Bye
Opener at USC Upstate
Women- 2nd
Next Up:
9/19 Winthrop Invitational
Notes: After their impressive showing at the Eye Opener, the ’Cats have a week off to prepare for the Winthrop Invitational.