Comeback ’Cats rally to top Catamounts, Mountaineers at home

ANNA STRINGFIELD

Sarabeth Peele ’11 (left) blocks the ball while Jorden Benedict ’11 (right) looks on during the Wildcats' 3-2 win over App. State on Sunday. Peele led all players with 24 kills in the victory.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2009

Wildcats tie Samford, extend unbeaten streak to five games

JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

The women’s volleyball team had a huge win over Western Carolina Friday night. Not only did the ’Cats celebrate their annual Dig Pink event with a silent auction, but the team also rallied from a 2-1 deficit for a win over their conference rival Catamounts. The ’Cats took home the win 3-2 (25-20, 20-25, 20-25, 25-20, 15-11).

For the offense, Hayley Lawson ’11 had 43 assists, 10 digs, and eight kills. Another kills leader for the ’Cats was none other than Sarabeth Peele ’11, snagging 20. Jorden Benedict ’11 and Madison Benedict ’12 each had double-digit figures, 11 and 10 kills respectively. For the defense, Molly Crenshaw ’13 tallied a career high of 27 digs.

The ’Cats continued their weekend of play with a Sunday afternoon decision against the Appalachian State Mountaineers. The ’Cats reigned victorious with a win over the Mountaineers, sealing the deal in 5 games, 3-2 (25-20, 22-25, 19-25, 25-23, 15-12). Peele led the team in kills, bringing in 24. Christine Perezinski ’12 had 14 kills while the Benedicts had a combined total of 25. Anna Bradbury ’11 had 62 assists for the offense and 11 digs for the defense. Crenshaw had 23 digs while classmate Ariel Ley ’13 had 10.

Davidson continues their SoCon play this weekend with decisions against Wofford, Friday at 7 p.m. and Furman, 4 p.m. Saturday.

Blocked FG dooms Wildcats in loss to Drake

Ray Francis
Staff Writer

Davidson’s football team continued its recent streak of tough losses on Saturday, giving up big plays and falling against the PFL-leading Drake Bulldogs 21-16. Stephen Platek proved to be a one-man wrecking crew for the Bulldogs, scoring on a 63-yard run and recording a 64-yard reception to set up Drake’s other offensive touchdown.

The backbreaker, however, came with five minutes to play in the third quarter. Trailing 14-10, the Wildcats lined up for a 43-yard field goal. Drake broke through the Wildcat protection and Ben Morrison blocked Ben Behrendt’s kick. The ball rolled loose on the ground before being picked up by Michael Lahart and returned 58 yards for the touchdown that decided the game.

Drake dented the scoreboard first after Platek’s reception gave the Bulldogs the ball on the Wildcat seven. Three plays later, Platek scampered in from nine yards out for a 7-0 Drake lead. Davidson would knot the score in the second period, capping an eight-play, 62-yard drive with Michael Blanchard’s ’11 three-yard plunge to pay dirt. The decisive play came when Kenny Mantuo ’11 took a handoff on third-and-eleven and scurried 34 yards to the Bulldog one.

Taking advantage of a poor Bulldog punt that traveled only 19 yards and gave the Wildcats the ball at the Drake 44, Davidson marched 32 yards to set up Behrendt’s 29-yard field goal.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

yard field goal with one second to go in the half that gave the Wildcats a 10-7 lead going into intermission. Blanchard rushed four times for 23 

See Wildcats, page 11

Staff Writer

Nearing the end of a wild conference schedule, the ’Cats topped UT-Chattanooga and drew even with Samford over the weekend. After a whirlwind three weeks with only one loss, Davidson rests just one spot away from a berth in the Southern Conference tournament.

Friday evening’s trip to the Tennessee mountains showcased one of our squad’s most prolific offensive performances all year. The Wildcats totaled 23 shots on the goal, overcoming an evenly matched start to eventually dominate the game. Just a couple minutes in, it seemed the ’Cats might pull away with a quick win. Courtney Hart ’10 made a smooth pass to Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10, who snagged the ball in the six-yard box and redirected it into the back of the net. Nearly as quickly as Davidson put a digit on the board, the home team whipped out a response, leveling the score early in the half’s tenth minute.

While the scoring balance refused to shift over the next 25 minutes or so, the Davidson offense dosed out relentless pressure. Bye-Nagel, Blakely Low ’10, and Callan Elswick ’11 all sent shots flying toward the opposing goalposts, but none crossed the plane of the goal line. In the 37th minute, Chat took advantage of a brief possession reversal and robbed the lead 2-1.

Eventually, the steady flow of Davidson offense burst through the Mocs’ defenses. Just five minutes later, with the half nearing a close, Callan Elswick ’11 assisted Bye-Nagel for her second goal of the game. After the halftime break, it was all Davidson. Hart again dished the ball over to Bye-Nagel, who wrapped up her hat trick with 33 minutes left on the clock. With that goal, she tied Low on the season with seven scores. And just a half minute later, Drutchas positioned herself for a penalty kick, her first on the year. With a stroke of her foot, she notched Davidson’s fourth goal of the game and put the match out of reach. Neither team would score again as the game concluded 4-2.

Two days later, the ’Cats combed the Deep South toward Birmingham, Alabama, for a contest against the Samford Bulldogs. Though not a perennial rival of the Davidson soccer program, Samford

See Soccer, page 10

— photo by Tripp Bartholomew

Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10

Women’s Soccer

HANAU, GERMANY

The senior forward scored three goals including the game-winner in Friday’s 4-2 win at Chattanooga. With the hat trick, Bye-Nagel moved into a tie with fellow senior Blakely Low for the team lead in goals with seven. The game-winning goal was Bye-Nagel’s third of the season and eighth of her career.

Wohler’s punt just short of school record

During the second quarter of Saturday’s 21-16 loss to Drake, Wildcat punter Andrew Wohler ’11 boomed a punt 69 yards. The punt was a career best for Wohler and was just three yards shy of the school record of 72 yards.