THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES

The harsh reality of US politics

Ryan Gough
Guest Columnist

Two articles rebutted my editorial last week. Both were well written, but both also disregarded the realities of political history and displayed an overly optimistic naiveté. One was a gross mischaracterization of my argument. The notion that I would ever write that supporting the president is un-American is absurd. It offends me that Scott would attempt to misconstrue my argument as such, and to do so discredits those who read and understood my argument.

Scott wrote in his original editorial that “no one has the right to... squander [the president’s] vision.” I said that was an un-American statement. Indeed, I stated, “I agree, let [Obama] work. But I hope that he will work harder to represent the American people that elected him instead of working to promulgate a vision that many Americans do not share.” How that is stating that supporting the president is un-American is beyond me.

The naive aspect of Hayden’s response is his assumption that reasoned debate leads to good solutions and excludes emotion in political discourse. Scott makes the same assumption when he argues that emotion has penetrated “traditional politics.” Today’s age, they argue, is one of irrational debate, and my response is merely an example of the conservative, overly emotional, irrational, non-factual politics of contemporary society.

Logic tells us that when two people have diametrically opposed worldviews and each knows that he is right, they are going to disagree. This debate normally becomes emotional, and indeed heated. A cursory scan of American political history shows us this as well. Well-behaved, unemotional “traditional politics” as Scott and Hayden would have us see it has never existed in this, or any, country. O ye days of old, when politics was enlightened and rational. When John Adams and Thomas Jefferson surreptitiously spread libelous claims about each other during the 1800 Presidential race. One might also recall the 1804 Burr-Hamilton duel, or when Preston Brooks beat Charles Sumner with a cane on the floor of the U.S. Senate in 1856.

Let’s fast forward. Maybe they’re considering that chorus of rational voices that claimed that George Bush engineered 9/11. Or maybe they’re speaking to the reasoned, calm, rational Joint Sessions of Congress in 2004 and 2006 when scores of Democrats booed President Bush. That was reasonable. Of course, what is happening today is totally out of character when considering these enlightened folk of old.

Nevertheless, Hayden implored for reasonable discourse. I agree. Unfortunately, some striking numbers and trends relating to our government provide much fodder to stoke the emotional fire that we have seen erupt this summer. I would like to note that these problems cross partisan lines and have been perpetrated (and perpetuated) by both Republican and Democrat administrations.

We have a federal deficit that will quintuple in 10 years due to this President’s budget. This budget will double the national debt ($11.8 trillion currently) in five years. We have a $787 billion “stimulus” bill that was sold to us with the promise that unemployment would not go above 8%. It is now over 9%. Coupled with underemployment, it is at 16%. The legislation will only provide 4% of its funds for shovel-ready construction jobs this year. We should also mention that this is borrowed money.

Each U.S. household today has $516,348 in unfunded promises made by federal, state, and local governments. $255,280 is due to Medicare liability, $144,251 to Social Security, $43,380 is due to federal debt. In sum, taxpayers owe $59.1 trillion in liabilities (85% of that coming from the federal government). It will take every U.S. household 75 years, at $31,000 per year to cover the government’s financial obligations.

With this in mind, we should definitely pile on a new $900 billion health care bill and a cap-and-trade system that will stunt economic growth. Did you know that this energy legislation dictates what kind of windows, light bulbs, and appliances you can use in your home? Did you also know that the bill was not even pieced together before the floor debate began? Did you know that an amendment one-quarter the size of the bill (which was 1,200 pages) was attached at 3 A.M. the morning of the vote? Did you know that one of its authors, Henry Waxman of California, admitted on C-SPAN that even he didn’t know what was in the bill?

Our President and his party have promised a “new era of responsibility.” This notion is laughable considering these facts. Furthermore, the sense that Washington is disconnected from the common American family is beyond palpable. Scott says we should trust politicians. Hayden says that our enlightened politicians and their debate will save us. A sobering fact is that well-intentioned, intelligent lawmakers have...captained us to our current state of affairs. You obviously haven’t spent much time with politicians, guys. In short, our country is directing itself down an unsustainable path. The fact that you and I and our distant posterity are going to have to clean up this mess has caused outrage. I think that is reasonable. Save me the self-righteous “don’t get emotional talk.” If you are not emotional about the fact that our representatives—the holy, enlightened ones as Scott and Hayden would have us believe—are continuing to direct us down a path of ostensible economic and political destruction, then we have issues bigger than ideological differences and factual knowledge. Passing these systemic problems to posterity (which will be living in an increasingly competitive global economy) is beyond unconscionable—it is immoral. I think I have reason to be emotional, gentlemen. Ryan Gough ’10 is a political science major from Elizabethton, TN. Contact him at rygough@davidson.edu.

Union Cafe: let them eat quesadillas

When starving French peasants protested outside the gates of Versailles in the 18th century, pleading for scraps of bread, Marie Antoinette rationally responded, “Let them eat cake.” In today’s world, this scene is being replicated at the Alvarez Student Union Café. The recent economic recession has depleted the endowment, convincing the Board of Trustees to take unprecedented action by inflating Café prices. The high prices in the Café have caused what amounts to rising poverty rates amongst the proletariat: the rapid annihilation of bonus bucks and declining balance alike. Some students, such as Steve Rossiter ’10, have considered taking out student loans in order to reduce their tab at the Union. Here are some helpful hints for students to avoid receiving government-issued food stamps: Instead of a $6.95 Philly Cheese Steak, one could feed their whole hall with 7 double cheeseburgers off the McDonald’s Dollar Menu. Instead of buying a Grilled Garden Chicken Focaccia with grilled cheese sticks ($10.25) and a 15 cent cup of water, one could go to R.J. Gators and eat unlimited wings and drink unlimited water and still have enough money to leave a philanthropist-sized tip. Instead of buying 2 pieces of gluten-free Hippie Kitchen banana bread ($7.00), a gluten-free hippie could get surgery to cure his/her gluten problems. Instead of buying 50 Uncrustables ($50.00), one could buy 30 bags of bread (crust included), 5 barrels of peanut butter, and 5 industrial-sized tubs of jelly at Costco to feed all the girls’ athletic teams. Instead of buying food at the Union ($0), one could consume a never-ending amount of food at Commons. After emptying one’s pockets and taking out a third mortgage on his/her dorm room to summon enough cash to buy the slightest morsel of food, insult is added to injury. The complex process of disposing of one’s trash is on par with defusing a hydrogen bomb. The red, green, and gold colored trash bins transform into the red, green, and gold wires of the bomb, mystifying students on which wire to cut. Many times, “eenie meenie miny mo” fails and students cut the wrong wire. Some are too dumbfounded to make any move, and assume Rodin’s inert Thinker pose. It’s not unreasonable to imagine a student so befuddled that he would begin to weep, call his mom, and throw his trash on the ground before scampering out with his tail between his legs. It’s not likely that it will rain down Manna bread as it did upon the Hebrews in biblical times, so unfortunately students will always need to find a place to eat. Therefore, if you are one of the unlucky few who have been tempted to eat out of the compost bin in the Union because your coins have been plundered, we cordially invite you to join us at the land of milk and honey, where food flows freely. This glorious place is better known as Commons. As for the Union Café, we cannot guarantee that you won’t suffer a similar fate as Marie Antoinette.

Charlie Reiter ’10 is a Political Science major from Westport, CT. Mauricio Simms ’11 is a Philosophy major from Bowie, Maryland. Mark Millard ’12 is undeclared. He is from Oak Tree, North Carolina. Contact them at chreiter@davidson.edu, masimms@davidson.edu, and mamillard@davidson.edu, respectively.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2009

We are setting up the major parties for the mid-term election only fourteen months away (note the sarcasm). However, a much larger problem is becoming evident: the institution of partisan politics has changed. The notion of partisan politics has shifted from representation of dominant and minority opinions in proportion, to all or nothing radicalism. People need to be educated by their leaders and...