THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009

ARTS & Exhibit highlights women and disabilities

Ben IRELAND Senior Staff Writer

A discussion panel of four female artists and art historians offered insightful commentary on the Davidson-hosted RE/FORMATIONS Art Exhibition last Thursday evening in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room. The panel discussion set the stage for the opening of the exhibition, which displays the work of several physically disabled female artists. Co-curators Jessica Cooley ’05, Assistant Curator of the Van Every/Smith Galleries, and Ann Fox, professor of English, came together with the hope of using sculptural art to shed a brighter light on the intrinsic relationships between disability and femininity. The exhibition, currently on showcase in the Belk Visual Arts Center, is the nation’s first gallery to explore this connection.

The panel discussion consisted of feminist disability studies scholar Rosemarie Garland-Thomson, art historian and author Ann Millett-Gallant, and artists Harriet Sanderson and Laura Splan. “This exhibition attempts to bring further insight on how one should interpret disabilities through Feb. 27, and how disability can effectively shape art,” Fox said. “There have been many exhibitions of disabled artists and painters, but none that actually focus on the relationships between disability and female identity.”

Millett-Gallant stressed the importance of practicing acceptance and viewing disability in a positive light. “I never feel disgusted or repulsed when I see objects or people with deformities or disabilities,” she said. “Rather, my hope is that one day disability will be of interest to all people, and this art gallery is here to help depict this in a new way.”

Garland-Thomson noted that in order to understand disability, one must recognize its multifaceted nature. “This exhibition will also show that, through art, one can learn that disability is not only an identity but is a concept that is to be respected,” she said.

A former student of Fox, Daniel Cook ’12, also commented on the panel. “To hear from the disability scholars we studied in class took what I learned from Dr. Fox to a new level,” Cook said.

After the panel, the exhibition’s opening took place. The gallery is divided thematically into two sections. The first gallery highlights Laura Splan’s “Trousseau” series, which uses cosmetic facial peels as fabric. RE/FORMATIONS is open in the Visual Arts Center, showcasing the sculptures and artwork of featured female artists, whereas the second presents a collection of artwork from a Davidson archive that illustrates aspects of disability.

Upon entering the first gallery, one immediately encounters a series of beautiful collections of garments and accessories. Part of Splan’s “Trousseau” series, these aesthetic items were created using cosmetic facial peels to function as fabric material. Later, each peel was sewn to resemble heirloom fans, negligées, handkerchiefs, and gloves. Also on display are Splan’s “Doily” series. These doilies, or pieces of meticulously embroidered lace on a black surface, are modeled after the biological structures of different viruses such as SARS and herpes. Although Splan does not consider herself disabled, she aims to communicate to a broad audience the importance of bodily acceptance—no single body is one that embodies perfection. “Through my work, I want to show how both science and biomedicine connect with aspects of women’s studies and disability,”

See Exhibition, page 6

Warning: avoid pushing this Button

VERONICA THOMAS Staff Writer

I’ve really hated New Year's Eve in college. You either have to pay 100 dollars for a ticket to New York to hang out with your college friends, or awkwardly hang out with high school pals you haven’t said a word to in two years. Or, like me, you go see “The Curious Case of Benjamin Button” with your sister to keep yourself busy and entertained until the ball drops and Taylor Swift starts lip-synching. Needless to say, the two hour and 45 minute film about a man’s strange life felt like it lasted a lifetime. Fortunately, thanksTo my good friend Starbucks,

I actually stayed awake to watch Benjamin Button (Brad Pitt) regress from a wrinkled old man with arthritis to a gorgeous adult with a motorcycle and finally back into a toddler with dementia. This sensational plot, adapted from the 1920s story by F. Scott Fitzgerald, is reminiscent of similar allegorical blockbusters like “Big Fish” and “Finding Neverland.” Unfortunately, unlike these captivating, feel-good films, “Benjamin Button,” directed by David Fincher, was about 20 minutes too long to keep my interest.

Brad Pitt gives a strong performance at many different stages of Button’s life, whether it be as a diminutive (newborn) old man, or a gorgeous 20-year-old who leaves his girlfriend and baby so that he doesn’t have to raise a child as an adolescent. Yet, it’s hard not to prefer Pitt’s role as Ed Norton’s rebellious alter ego in “Fight Club,” another surreal film directed by Fincher.

The most impressive performance, however, is in fact by Taraji P. Henson, a relatively unknown television actress who plays the role of Button’s adoptive African-American mother, Queenie. Abandoned by his father because his mother died giving birth to the deformed “baby,” Button is discovered by Queenie on the steps of her nursing home and selflessly decides to take him in as her own child. Her unconditional, immediate love brought my sister and most of the audience to tears. I’m sure Henson’s touching, riveting performance would have done the same to me if “Lion King” wasn’t the only movie that can make me cry.

Because he grows up around others that look like him and must also use a wheelchair, Button never faces the extreme bullying or fear that such a strange man would likely confront. Button has one love in his life, Daisy (Cate Blanchett), who he meets when they are both “kids,” one with a balding head with a few gray hairs, and one with porcelain skin and long red hair. They run into each other again and again, yet never can stay together for long. Because of this, the fantastical effect of the story starts to fade and is replaced by frustration. Of course, like the romantically optimistic and sappy film “The Notebook,” the film closes with Daisy returning to Benjamin, a sick newborn, cradling him until he dies.

Button’s abandoned daughter actually narrates the story, reading his journal in 2005 to a dying Daisy in New Orleans, as Hurricane Katrina rages outside. The haunting tragedy of these exchanges — between a woman and her dying mother in a flooding hospital — are the most commanding, yet beautiful, scenes of the entire film. While I enjoyed the idea of a man aging in reverse and appreciated the cinematography of an older, pre-Katrina New Orleans, I only recommend this film to people who have time to fill. Maybe those who dread Valentine’s Day, like I resent New Year’s Eve, will find it a great way to distract themselves from the hours of red, pink, and mushy holiday festivities.

For the first time in history, the official presidential portrait was captured by a digital camera. Pete Souza, the White House’s new photographer, snapped the shot on Jan. 13. He used a Canon 5D Mark II and took the picture without using a flash. In the photo, Obama wears a light blue tie with small red and white stripes over a crisp white shirt. His jacket, which is navy, features the small American flag pin that has become an unspoken requirement of the Washington uniform. All of these frame Obama's head. One artist used acrylic paint on wood and writes that he “wanted to create something that reflected the hope and optimism I feel.” Artists and activists try to maintain the momentum to bring about true change in the United States. The gallery opened its doors to the public during the inaugural.