4 Tue DAVIDSONIAN

Cats on Main grand opening a success
CRISTINA BUSTILLO
Staff Writer

If you’ve walked on Main Street this semester, you will have noticed that some new windows are decorated with Davidson
gear and paraphernalia. It’s the new store “Cats on Main,” an extension of the campus bookstore that has crossed the
street as a gesture of the relationship between the college and the town. Last Saturday, many Davidson students, staff, and
townspeople attended the grand opening of this store. It was an event full of prizes, special speakers, and a great
deal of enthusiasm.

The invitation was set for 10 a.m., when President Ross, Mayor John Wood, and landlord Tom Clark all gave small
speeches that shared some very thoughtful comments and expressed their excitement about this new partnership. This excitement was clearly shared
by the store employees, townspeople, and college faculty that were present. When constructing this new store, planners tried to preserve
the character of the building and its history by reusing some of the wooden shelves and the signs from the
drug store.

The Davidson cheerleaders were present all day supporting the event and welcoming visitors. Chidsey Leadership groups also stopped by to
earn clues for a scavenger hunt by singing the Davidson fight song. Many students and townspeople stopped by throughout the
day. Some were curious as to what was going on, but many expressed their support for the college’s new store
and the idea that Davidson College should connect and reach out to the town as much as possible.

“Davidson is an amazing town, and this new store on Main Street is a symbol of the union between the
town and the college,” said Kiana Zakar ’12, one of the students who attended the grand opening of Cats on
Main. “The event was very exciting for the staff to plan and there were some wonderful moments in the day.
The ‘liquid sunshine’ didn’t dim the smiles of staff, distinguished guests, or cool customers,” said Gwen Gardner, the Bookstore manager.
“Tom Ross kindly shared some thoughtful comments to the group, as did town Mayor John Wood and landlord Tom Clark,
before cutting the ribbon and officially opening the store. All are such kind gentlemen and huge supporters of the store.”

The event was a complete success, thanks to the hard work of the employees, and because it brought the entire
community together. Store manager Jill Lazarus said, “It is such an honor to be part of Davidson College. I look
forward to growing this wonderful, exciting new venture. We have a terrific staff; they come with experience, knowledge, and enthusiasm.
We strive for great customer service, a fun atmosphere, and helpful staff.”

CORRECTIONS
L.E.A.D.
A Sep. 23 article, “Students support Ada Jenkins program for Latinas,” incorrectly stated that Marianne Daniels ’12 is the president
of L.E.A.D. Daniels is actually co-president with Katherine Fahy ’12. The Davidsonian pledges to rectify any errors in reporting through
printed corrections. Please contact us at davidsonian@davidson.edu if you identify any such errors.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2009

relating to business, organizational and personal ethics; public policy and the common good; bioethics; and personal experience. The symposium will
be academic in nature, so students need to read all the assigned background documents and case studies beforehand. Interested students
should contact us for more information about applying for the event. The selection of four seniors will be based on
why they are interested, what they can bring to the symposium, and their personal experiences.

BLOTTER
09/24/09 02:24Officer received a call advising Davidson Fire Department had been dispatched to Ryburn in reference to a fire alarm
activation. The fire alarm was activated when a Davidson student overcooked the hotdogs he was frying in the apartment. Davidson
Fire Department permitted residents to reenter the dorm after clearing the smoke and resetting the alarm.

09/25/09 09:33
Officer responded to the Davidson Laundry in reference to damage to property. Reporting officer met with a Davidson College employee
who stated that her vehicle had minor scratches and she was not sure what happened. She stated that she wanted
to notify campus police because she had seen a new scratch on her vehicle each day for the past week.
The officer observed minor scratches to the left and rear passenger doors, driver side door, and the left side of
the trunk.

09/25/09 13:05
Officer responded to Sloan Music Center in reference to a suspicious female. Reporting officer received a call on the officer
duty cell phone from a Davidson College employee who advised that he observed her in the music library. The officer
met with the female and advised her that she needed to leave the campus immediately. The officer escorted and trespassed
her off of the campus.

09/25/09 23:00
Officer was contacted in reference to a suspicious person near Martin Ct. F. The caller advised of a black male
approximately 35 years old, about 5 foot 10 inches tall, wearing a dark blue rain jacket, who was trying to
party with students. Reporting officer received a second call advising that the individual was now outside Ryburn. Reporting officer searched
the area by foot and vehicle but was unable to locate anyone matching the above description. Reporting officer later received
a call advising the subject left on a bicycle and was last seen traveling north on Ridge Rd. towards N.
Main St.

09/27/09 02:00
Officer, while conducting patrol at the Outpost, observed a subject come in with a red cup. The officer requested that
the subject take the drink outside because it is not allowed in the Outpost. The subject then proceeded to try
and finish the drink. The officer again told the subject to take it outside. He then threw the cup away
and tried to walk past the officer. The officer stepped in front of the subject and advised him that he
had to leave. The officer went outside and observed the subject standing on the porch. He stated that he was
waiting on his friends. The officer asked if he was a student and he stated yes. When the officer asked
for his ID, he stated that he did not have to give it and then walked away. The officer walked
down to the curb and the subject then went back inside the Outpost. The officer went into the Outpost and
brought the subject back out. It was at this time he gave the officer his ID and stated that he
was not a student. The officer advised the subject that he was trespassed and he needed to leave campus.

09/27/09 01:00
Officer received a call in reference to several students on the roof of Vail Commons. Officer responded to the area
and observed several students on the roof. Reporting officer climbed onto the rooftop and escorted the students from the roof.

09/27/09 13:19
Officer received a call from a Davidson College student, advising that his girlfriend’s vehicle was broken into sometime during the
night. The student stated that while his girlfriend was visiting, she was parked in the greenhouse parking lot when an
unknown subject smashed in her windows and tampered with the ignition in an attempt to steal the vehicle. The student
stated that he wanted to contact campus police in hopes of additional patrol in the area.
