4 Tue DAvIDSONIAN

The Rotaract Club, whose aims include leadership and selfless service, meets to discuss the year.

photo by Bill Giduz

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2009

Subscriptions for the paper will terminate.

Author Tobias Wolff addresses questions of honor

Katie VOEGTL
Staff Writer

Tobias Wolff has been showered with honors from the PEN/Faulkner Award to the Los Angeles Times Book Prize. Yet when he sat down for a midmorning interview on Tuesday, his intelligent blue eyes glowed with warmth, not pride, as he spoke of his life and experiences as a writer.

Wolff attributes his initial love of reading to the example of his mother, asserting that, “A lot of the appetite for reading comes from parents. We learn everything by imitation, then take off from there if we’re lucky.” He began toying with stories as a young boy and kept on because, “I was blessed with very clear limitations. I cultivated the one thing I felt I could do well.”

Driven also by his appetite for the act of writing itself, he has come to think that “writing isn’t religion, but it is a release from the prison of yourself.” He relishes writing, not because it is effortless, but because he is “addicted to self-forgetfulness. You lose yourself...dragging it out syllable by syllable. Thinking about language. Rewriting a sentence 20 times.”

Despite his careful attention to language, Wolff does not feel that stories can be forced into existence. When writing, Wolff thinks that he is “not always in conscious command. Writing should be better than it is meant to be, by serendipity. When design is superseded by something inexplicable, a surprise.”

Among his previous works, “This Boy’s Life” stands out as a memoir marked by powerful, and sometimes painful, self-revelation. “In all honesty, sometimes I wept, remembering my mother and her trials.”

But he pressed on, sketching a portrait even of his dreaded stepfather, a figure whom he had avoided for years. To his surprise, though, he “began to see him as a comic figure as well... When you put things in a corner and don’t write about them, they take on a power they shouldn’t have.”

As much as he cherished writing the book, he did undergo trepidation about the release of a novel which so openly exposed both himself and others. “If you write a memoir and you’re not afraid when it comes out, you need to go deeper.” Yet he recognizes that he “would be held hostage as a writer by the queasiness of others about appearing in my work.” To be fair, though, “I make sure that I put myself under the same moral scrutiny as others.”

Themes which Wolff observes in his own work include “identity, formation of identity, authenticity, truth and falsehood, politics of family life, obligations to each other... Are we in a morally vacant universe? What is our calling in this world, in our relations to each other?”

All of these subjects are delicately explored in “Old School,” a novel set in an elite private school which, on the surface, resembles Davidson in many ways, a place where, “little things grow large.”

Chosen as the freshman class’s summer reading book in light of its showcasing of honor and integrity, “Old School” highlights the workings of minute webs of deception which wrap around the protagonist as well as the dean of the school.

“Both of them have allowed, if not encouraged, misunderstandings about themselves which are profitable to them,” explained Wolff. These white lies lead to “festering self-doubt and self-contempt.”

As he struggles to form his own identity, the narrator becomes infatuated with a series of authors, going so far as to type out works of Hemingway. The months fly by, his own voice ever changing as he repeatedly steeps himself in the works of others.

Wolff, who declares imitation a vital part of learning, believes that originality comes “as your own particular interest becomes more pressing than the recapitulation of what others have said... When you write truly, tentatively about your story.”

When the narrator at last discovers a story that seems to be, by all accounts, his story, he plagiarizes the work and is subsequently expelled in a scene where the merits of a strict honor code are sharply questioned.

Wolff himself candidly declared, “Honor is a very, very difficult subject. On the one hand, there are poles, things that are clearly dishonorable and honorable. There are areas in between, though, that are difficult to navigate and parse morally... Writers grapple with it all the time...endlessly picking [their] way through a minefield of values.”

Though he came to Davidson at a time when the centennial of the Honor Code is being celebrated, Wolff openly admitted, “I have a very ambiguous feeling about honor codes. Our sense of honor is so deeply bound up in our souls and our sense of self-regard.”

He argues that it is impossible to divine the mystery of others’ motives, and the implications of condemning their actions can be vicious. He also fears fostering an environment of moral superiority instead of kinship but allows that he loves “the idea of a community where authority is not outside in the form of rules but is guided by integrity.”

Wolff discusses honor and the life of the writer with Professors Parker and Mills.