2 Tue

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Katie MILLER Editor-in-Chief

One of the strongest foundations of creating and maintaining a sense of community at Davidson is the high percentage of
students living on campus. Every year, approximately 95 percent of students live in housing provided by the College. The combination
of a large portion of the junior class (as well as a few token sophomores) returning from abroad combined with
the need for on-campus placement, however, habitually creates a headache for the Residence Life Office staff. This school year, 192
students returned from studying abroad during the Fall semester, while only 63 left.

This obvious disparity has called for creative solutions. Last year, some students were placed in the N. Main townhouses. The
townhouses were originally built to provide affordable housing for College faculty and staff. In effect, they were on loan to
RLO for two years. According to Associate Dean of Residence Life and RLO Director Patty Perillo, however, continued student use
of the townhouses was never a possibility. In light of the resulting shortage, Perillo spoke to her advisory group, composed
of Davidson students from organizations including the SGA.

NEWS

Housing crunch leads to new student dormitories

Students show off a triple room in the renovated Carnegie Guest House basement.

Perillo told The Davidsonian that during the year and a half long course of her tenure, every housing solution has
been implemented at the suggestion of students, since “the culture at Davidson is understood so much more by students.” For
this and other reasons, Perillo believes it is important to consult students for ideas and opinions on issues that will
affect them.

1/12/09 01:23 Noise Complaint Martin Court

Officers responded to a couple of noise complaints that came in at the same time. One complaint was at Martin
Court B and the other was at Martin Court F. The officer advised four students playing a beer drinking game
at Martin Court B to take it inside for the night. Officer checked Martin Court F due to extremely loud
music. As officer was approaching the building, a student on the third floor made eye contact with the officer and
he immediately went to the room directly behind him. As the officer was walking up the steps to address the
party, multiple students hurried down the steps. When the officer got to the apartment, the music was turned completely off
and there were only two students in the apartment.

1/14/09 15:37 911 Hang-up Chambers

Officer responded to a 911 hang-up at Chambers Building. The reporting officer was unable to locate the phone and later
learned that the phone was in Elm Row. Apparently, when the victim fell into the hole near Elm Row, it
activated the phone and called 911. No one was in the building at the time.

1/15/09 17:18 Assist Fire 439 N. Main St.

Officer Thompson responded to 439 N. Main St., Eco-House, in reference to an assist fire. Reporting officer met with Davidson
Fire Dept. who stated that several Davidson College students were cooking and accidentally had a small stove top fire. The
officer did not observe any damage during this time.

1/16/09 07:25 911 Hang-up Belk Dormitory

Officer was dispatched to Belk Dorm in reference to a 911 hang-up in the elevator. While en route, the officer
was contacted by dispatch and advised that three females were on the elevator and pressed the emergency 911 button by
mistake. The officer arrived at Belk Dorm and checked around the floors, but was unable to locate the females. No
further action was taken.

1/17/09 19:04 Suspicious Person Martin Court

Officer was contacted on the officer cell phone in reference to a suspicious person seen around Martin Court B. The
caller, a Davidson College student, reported that an unknown female had knocked on her door and had asked for an
egg. She described the female as wearing all black with a black hat, around thirty years old. Reporting officer searched
the area by foot and vehicle but was unable to locate anyone matching the description.

1/18/09 18:22 Other Duke Dormitory

Officer was contacted on the officer cell phone in reference to a water noise in the Duke Dorm elevator, 113
Dormitory Dr. The caller advised, while riding the elevator from the first floor to the second floor, she heard a
strange water-type noise. Reporting officer responded and took the elevator to the basement floor. Reporting officer heard what sounded like
water dispersing from the bottom of the elevator shaft; at this time the basement floor was still dry. Reporting officer
contacted the Physical Plant on-call personnel and advised them of the situation. Reporting officer advised students in the area not
to use the elevator at this time.

1/19/09 13:40 Alarm Visual Arts Center

Officer was dispatched by communications to an alarm at the Visual Arts Center, 315 N. Main St., coming from the
art gallery. The reporting officer responded and met with Brenda King, administrative assistant, who stated the custodian, Doug, had opened
the door when he found it unlocked, which activated the alarm. Brad Thomas, Director of the Center, reset the alarm
and locked the door. No further action was taken.

“I will always do this work finding solutions for students with students,” she said. In fact, a student suggestion generated
the idea to house the 14 women returning from abroad in the basement of the Carnegie Guest House. Perillo felt
very strongly that dormitory lounges should notbe converted into dorm rooms since common spaces are important for fostering relationships. Currently,
the women living in the Carnegie basement have no cat-card access, due to technical obstacles with external wiring. Instead, they
all have keys which open the basement door facing the Belk parking lot. The students have no special privileges or
access to the rest of the Guest House—in fact, other than the extremely wide hallway and varied size and shape
of the rooms, the dorms are much the same as any other hall. Fourteen women are also living in off-campus
houses provided by the College.

Students can expect more changes in this year’s upcoming housing lottery. Last year, the College expected 472 freshmen and received
482. Cannon, with the capacity to house a greater number of students than Little, was therefore converted into a freshman
dorm (again, initiated at the suggestion of a student) while Little was transferred to upperclassmen housing. The Class of 2013
is expected to weigh in at 490, meaning RLO is again anticipating an increased demand for freshmen housing. Increased off-campus
permission is one likely change. The application process for off-campus permission will also change this year. Instead of the one-round
process from years past, there will be two rounds of off-campus permission applications.

Round one will occur before and independently of all on-campus placements, in order to give those students who strongly desire
off-campus housing a preliminary opportunity. Although permission will only be granted to a limited number of students, those denied permission
will be permitted to re-apply when they enter the regular housing lottery. This second round will follow the established format
of years past. The division into two rounds aims to allow off-campus access to students who strongly desire that option
while affording more students the opportunity to pursue a Martin Court apartment. The new system should prevent apartments from opening
up by students who later receive off-campus permission. As this year’s housing lottery approaches, more details regarding changes affecting students
will be clarified.

The sub-free application process also will run differently this year. Unlike previous lotteries, sub-free housing will be assigned before any
student receives their lottery numbers. This change seeks to reduce the number of students who apply for sub-free housing only
to attain a desirable location, and thereby ensure that sub-free living remains available to those who truly desire it.

Site aids students with study abroad research
By ALEX KOWALESKI
Staff Writer

Every year, hundreds of Davidson College students study abroad in distant corners of the world. However, for students who are
searching for programs to attend, it can be difficult to distinguish which programs are excellent and which are not worth
a student’s semester. Seeking to remedy this problem, Davidson alumni John Henry ’07 and Henry Van Wagenberg ’07 created the
website “Rate Your Study Abroad.” The site went online last September and has been growing ever since. It has just
finished its beta phase.

According to Van Wagenberg, the inspiration for the website was a result of the different levels of satisfaction that he
and Henry experienced during their time abroad. “He went on the Davidson Classics trip and loved it,” said Van Wagenberg.
“I went to Germany and didn’t. We realized there was no way to know how good [trips are,] what people
thought.” He added that “there are 7000 programs in the country, and the number grows every year. There is no
way of knowing how good they are—no accountability.” Van Wagenberg also stated that the vast majority of online literature about
study abroad programs is produced by the programs themselves, and that it is therefore very difficult to find unbiased information
about the programs.

In order to realize their goal, Henry and Van Wagenberg brought together a team of programmers and web designers to
build a website where students could write reviews about their study abroad experiences. A major goal of the team was
to make the website “simple” and “user-friendly,” as well as aesthetically pleasing, according to Van Wagenberg. During the construction of
the website, Van Wagenberg and Henry met with the Institute for International Education, which approved of their efforts.

To access the website, visit www.rateyourstudyabroad.com. A map of the world appears; click in order to bring up a continent.
From there, click on a specific country to bring up a list of the programs in the country which students
have reviewed. If the database does not list a program, a student can add it and create a review for
it. To review a program, a student rates his opinions on various aspects of the program, such as academic quality,
living situation, and cultural exposure on a scale of one to five. Then, the student gives the program an overall
rating from one to ten, and can write his or her own comments about the program. Currently, about 100 programs
have been added, with a total of 120 ratings. Under each country, the programs are listed on the page from
highest-rated to lowest, a feature which Van Wagenberg says will become more useful as the number of rated programs grows.

Van Wagenberg and Henry hope their program will fill an important void and prove highly useful to college students across
the world. Traveling abroad is “expensive, a huge amount of time [and] an experience so many people love,” Van Wagenberg
states. “If you can help them find the programs they love, that is good.”
