THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES

In many ways, Barack Obama has been very good to civil libertarians, not to mention everyone else that found the ACLU more and more prescient as the Bush Administration progressed. Obama repudiated the “enhanced interrogation techniques” of his predecessor and began the closure of the Guantanamo Bay prison camp in an executive order on his first day in office, and last week, he made the admirable decision to declassify a number of memos written by the Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) in 2003. Those memos discussed the legality of interrogation techniques which the CIA had used on Khalid Sheik Mohammed and Abu Zubaydah, two Al-Qaeda members that were captured in Pakistan.

What the memos contain confirms the iron rule of Bush-era declassification: no matter how much incompetence and criminality previous disclosures suggest, the truth is worse than you thought. Not only did these memos somehow determine that all manner of techniques were legal, like waterboarding, sleep deprivation, “walling,” in which the prisoner’s head is repeatedly struck against a wall, or even enclosing a prisoner’s head in a container filled with insects, ala 1984’s Room 101, but the memos went into excruciating detail on the manner in which the techniques were applied. They even established strict limits on the number of times a prisoner could legally be waterboarded, a procedure for which the United States executed Japanese war criminals after World War II, at ninety times per month.

The politicians and pundits that defend these barbaric practices are quick to evoke the ticking-time bomb scenario: an elaborate counterfactual that purports to justify the legalization of these techniques. In it, heroic Jack Bauer-esque interrogators know that a massive attack, usually nuclear, is imminent, and only through torture can they coax life-saving information out of some captured terrorist. It would be crazy not to torture in such a situation, they argue, and it is — but not as crazy as believing that such a fairy tale resembles the world we’re living in.

Webster Doctrine

Do we really want our government convinced that it can get away with war crimes? These memos, and the flurry of other disclosures that have followed them, prove that Jack Bauer differs from the Bush Administration in a crucial way: Jack’s methods might be unethical, but at least he knows what he’s doing. This week, it came out that the CIA employees and Administration officials that cooked up the torture program borrowed techniques from the Army’s SERE program, which trains servicemen to resist torture in the event that they are captured. The program’s planners were unaware that SERE models its techniques off of the methods used by the Communist North Koreans and North Vietnamese to elicit false confessions, even though the Army warned that such techniques were ineffective and would produce bad intelligence. Ali Soufan, one of the CIA agents that questioned Abu Zubaydah before traditional, legal techniques were discarded, wrote in the New York Times last week that this is exactly what happened: Zubaydah provided useful information under normal procedures, but led the CIA on a number of wild goose chases.

D. “Sandy” Carnegie has spent almost 30 years representing clients who have suffered substantial injuries due to another person’s negligence or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest above all else. Sandy’s career-long track record of achieving successful results for his clients has earned him recognition throughout NC and among his peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named to the Best Lawyers in America publication consistently for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the law including contract preparation and review, residential and commercial closings, land development and acquisition, as well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia. In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community.

Sandy, Davidsonnative, and his wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as a commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town of Davidson committees, and is a member of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. He is also a member of the Lions Club, the MT Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & A.M, and has coached youth football, basketball, and baseball in the Davidson, Cornelius, and Mooresville communities.

Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A member of the Lions Club, Jim also serves on the boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players, and was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

APPEALS + BANKRUPTCY + BUSINESS LAW + LITIGATION + PERSONAL INJURY + COLLECTIONS + ESTATE PLANNING + REAL ESTATE + WILLS & TRUSTS

Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home:
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill)
Davidson, NC 28036
(704) 892-1699
www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

Wednesday, April 29, 2009

Torture architects deserve justice

According to Soufan, Zubaydah did not produce any useful intelligence under torture. Even more disturbingly, McClatchy’s News Service reported last week that Zubaydah and other detainees were tortured because the government believed, largely without evidence, that he was withholding evidence of a connection between Al-Qaeda and Saddam Hussein. Zubaydah had no such information because no such relationship existed, but that didn’t stop the CIA from torturing Zubaydah and sending another detainee, Ibn al Sheikh al Libi, to be tortured in Egypt, where he confessed to a fictitious relationship with Saddam Hussein’s regime in Iraq.

In a very direct way, the CIA’s torture program contributed to the agency’s biggest intelligence failure since 9/11, and the Bush Administration’s disastrous decision to invade Iraq. It’s hardly surprising that the hardliners in the Bush Administration, who had long believed that executive power had become too restrained to properly defend the country, would resort to extreme, illegal measures in secret. To a certain extent, these actions are understandable, if not exactly forgivable. It’s true that, when the decisions were made, all of the relevant people were operating under what Glenn Beck might call a 9/12 mindset: namely, a state of shock and blind panic, coupled with a conviction that the old rules didn’t apply and that we should do whatever it takes to prevent another attack.

But it’s also not surprising that decisions made in this way would be horribly bad ones, and the evidence we have now strongly suggests that the Bush Administration harmed our intelligence-gathering operations and jeopardized our security while dragging this country’s principles through the mud. This is precisely why we should make sure that the architects of this policy pay a real price for their crimes, and why it is so troubling that Obama and the Democratic leadership in the Senate have indicated that they won’t do so.

In 2002, Bush, Cheney, and their subordinates like David Addington and John Yoo, probably expected not to pay a serious professional price for their actions, and certainly not a legal one. After all, Richard Nixon was pardoned after he left office, as was Oliver North after the Iran-Contra scandal broke. Yet if the lawyers at the OLC or the interrogators at the CIA were thinking clearly about the legality of their actions, or even the long-term consequences, they might not have done this. “Looking forward, not back,” as the President is suggesting, won’t just confirm that the law means one thing for powerful American politicians and another for the rest of the world, it will create a powerful lesson for people managing future emergencies. Do we really want our government convinced that it can get away with war crimes?

Zeke Webster '09 is a political science major from Clemmons, N.C. Contact him at zewebster@davidson.edu.