THE DAVIDSONIAN

Strategic Plan, from page 1

Small class size, liberal arts focus, and sense of community ranked as the top three issues that needed to be
addressed in future strategic assessments. President Ross appointed an “I team” of five faculty and staff to lead the strategic
development process. Five study groups formed in the fall of 2007, exploring five areas (the liberal arts, demographics, globalization, regional
change, and technology) in which external forces would have a significant impact on Davidson in the upcoming years. From these
foci, 21 other, more specific groups formed, comprised of faculty and staff who were asked to serve on the teams
based on their areas of interest in particular issues. Students were later added to certain teams.

The teams explored teaching and learning, integration of knowledge, diversity and inclusivity, global community, and sustainable community. Each was asked
to imagine two different scenarios for the purpose of bouncing ideas and creating reactions from the situations. The first, called
Hedgehog, had a focus on studying in depth, with full emphasis on the academic programs and digging deep into subject
matter. The second, the Fox, focused on breadth of education.

One year later, all of the groups met together to discuss what they could draw from each scenario to bring
to Davidson. After this, another committee formed for curriculum development in order to actually write strategies. All of the groups
understood from the beginning that certain ideals about Davidson, such as honor, respect, community, and trust, should never change. Dr.
Verna Case of the Biology department, a member of the “I team,” called these the “sacred cows” of Davidson, and
while they were not part of the strategies, they were considered part of the heart of the college, and the
assumption is that they will continue for as long as the school stands.

While the different committees have proposed small changes to the ways Davidson operates, for example, making slight modifications in freshmen
orientation, diversity increases, or the way the core curriculum works, Davidson will not morph into a different school than it
has been in years past. Actions growing out of the strategic plan are forthcoming, some of which will probably be
announced this year. Davidson’s next steps are to create a facilities master strategic plan and a financial plan to pursue
the development of ideas from the strategic plan.

Excited about the plan, President Ross looks forward to the next steps: “The plan developed with input from a lot
of people, alumni, faculty, staff, and students, and it does represent a consensus on our direction. It provides a road
map to the future, and as circumstances change around us we have to act upon them and make better decisions.”

In her 35 years at Davidson, Dr. Case noted, “This is the first time a president has committed to creating
a comprehensive strategic plan. It is certainly a tribute to Tom Ross’s leadership.”

Lutheran Corps seeks student volunteer workers

KATIE VOEGTLU
Staff Writer

“We're really just looking for anyone who’s passionate about peace and justice,” declared Kristin Danielson, who recruited on Friday for
the Lutheran Volunteer Corps (LVC). This program was founded in 1979 by Luther Place Memorial Church in Washington, DC with
the aim of promoting peace with justice. Their approach to this lofty goal is threefold. Direct service focuses on the
immediate relief of needs, from housing toeducation to medical care. Community organizing conducts rallies, fundraisers, and other outreach events which
inspire social change. And public policy rallies forces to push for reform in governmental laws and policies. They seek the
realization of all these goals through matching volunteers with one-year placements in social justice organizations. Selected by application, fresh volunteers
gather in August each year at a one-week orientation held in Washington, DC. After training, workers scatter to 16 cities
across the United States. Waiting in each city is a support committee of citizens invested in the success of LVC.
They welcome each team of four to seven volunteers into a pre-furnished house located in a modest, racially diverse neighborhood.
The living situation is designed to foster sustainability of the environment through green practices as well as the sustainability of
the self through healthy relationships. While all household members have unique job placements, they are invested in the same core
goals of peace and justice. House names honor concepts such as simunye, “we are one” in Zulu, as well as
brave figures like Sojourner Truth. The house is designed as a center of revitalization and community. Though some tensions inevitably
arise, the experience is ultimately constructive. As Danielson said, “Learning how to be with people, how to be authentic, is
an art.” Besides holding weekly community nights, houses also organize a monthly spiritual night. This is intended to be a
time for stimulating discussion and growth, and each house has freedom over the shape of this occasion. Past events include
the viewing and discussion of the noble film “Chocolat” with mandatory confection consumption. Each year, members attend three regional retreats
in order to rest, reflect upon their experiences, and rejuvenate their spirits. Past locations include Chesapeake Bay and the hills
of the Appalachians. Retreats involve a review of the core principles of LVC as well as training, often in the
realm of “active, intentional anti-racism work.” Danielson stressed that social justice cannot be realized without addressing ethnic issues, and LVC
equips its volunteers with the tools to spot and resist racist tendencies in themselves and others. Danielson urges prospective volunteers
to explore, “What excites you.” Choices are abundant. Clusters of offerings include education, HIV/AIDS, environmental awareness, food programs, health care,
refugee services, and scores beyond. Each volunteer receives a comprehensive list of all job descriptions, organized by city. Next come
interviews for the top three positions. LVC then matches each volunteer with the most lucrative job offering, based upon voiced
preferences. The program does require a one-year commitment, from August to August, and volunteers must be 21 or older at
the beginning of their year. The program is by no means a dead end, for 30 percent of participants go
on to graduate school. The directors insist that it can be an excellent opportunity to focus on an issue of
interest and even to sample a career field. They point out the fact that benefits are plentiful, as placements cover
costs of housing, utilities, food, travel, and transportation, as well as medical insurance. Two weeks of vacation are allowed, as
well as a monthly stipend of $100. Often, positions qualify for AmeriCorps Education Awards of up to $4725. Generally, federally
guaranteed student loans may be deferred. Applications are available on the LVC website and are considered through a rolling application
process beginning January 15 and ending in June. LVC is careful not to discriminate based upon gender, sexual orientation, race,
disability, religion, or major. While LVC is affiliated with the Lutheran Church, half of the volunteers hail from other faiths.
The vital credentials are simple: commitment to LVC’s mission of peace and justice.
