4 THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009

Project Life hosts on-campus blood typing drive

ALLIE COKER
Staff Writer

On Nov. 9-10, Project Life will be holding its 20th annual Bone Marrow Typing Drive in the Union Atrium. Project Life is Davidson’s on-campus bone marrow typing and awareness organization. The organization hosts fundraisers and awareness events throughout the year, including the Spaghetti Dinner, Ben and Jerry’s Day, and Tulip Days. The organization was founded by David Lindsay, who conceived of Project Life under the presidency of Dr. John Kuykendall.

“As a college freshman at Davidson whose leukemia had recently returned with a vengeance, I was blessed to be cured by a bone marrow transplant during that spring of my freshman year,” Lindsay said. “[Typing is important] for those folks who desperately need a bone marrow transplant, and yet don’t have a family member whose marrow matches their own. The math gets pretty simple and compelling -- the more people we get signed up to the registry -- the greater the chances for creating a cure for others.”

Current Davidson students can relate as well. Sarah McIlroy ’11 stated, “My father received a bone marrow transplant from an anonymous donor. Had this donor not been typed, my dad may never have received a transplant because the matching process can be extremely difficult.” Walker Shaw ’10, who joined the organization as a co-coordinator in the past year, said, “I feel that people often fail to realize the fact that many people die waiting for life-saving transplants, and that bone marrow typing is an easy, logical solution to help those in need.”

Over the past 20 years, many aspects of bone marrow typing have changed. Even in the last four years, the process of being typed has gone from drawing blood to a painless and noninvasive routine of swabbing the cheek with a cotton swab. Project Life has changed over the years as well. The annual Spaghetti Dinner, which 300 people attended and which raised over $1,200 this year, has gotten larger as well as more popular.

When asked what she enjoys about Project Life, Iris Leung ’12 replied, “Spaghetti Dinner definitely.” Shaw agreed: “I love the spaghetti dinner,” he said. “It is so nice to see the entire community surround a single cause, all while getting to socialize and eat tasty food.”

But all the fundraising and awareness centers around the Bone Marrow Typing Drive itself. “Being typed through Project Life is the best way to spend 10 minutes of your day,” McIlroy said. “After those 10 minutes, you can truly say that you have helped someone and something and that later down the road you may even have the opportunity to change lives forever. In 10 minutes, you could take a nap, eat a sandwich, run a mile, or give someone the opportunity for a new chance at life.

“Get typed,” she continued. “Your decision to be typed now may later come with the blessing of giving life-saving cells to another human being. Even if you’re not sure if that decision would be easy later, the decision to be typed now is the easiest one. At least make it possible.”

Once an individual is typed and registered,they may be called on in the future at any time to be identified as a match for someone who needs a transplant. At that point, however, the potential donor has the freedom to think the decision over and decide whether to donate or not. Many students cite donating as one of the most positive experiences they have had. Weston Sacco '10 realizes the importance of getting typed and commented on Project Life’s work here at Davidson. “Project Life promotes bone marrow typing by spreading awareness and making it absolutely free for students,” he said. “This organization takes away any possible excuse not to get typed.” Those interested in learning more about bone marrow typing or becoming registered can stop by the Union Atrium between 11:00 a.m. and 3 p.m. on Nov. 9 and 10. “The day of the drive stands out to me as a celebration of life -- it is a joyous and hope-filled experience,” Lindsay said.

Jim Fuller’s career-long track record of achieving successful results for his clients has earned him recognition throughout NC and among his peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named to the Best Lawyers in America publication consistently for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina. As a former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the State for his commitment to justice and his exceptional litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience, he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people who have been injured by the negligent or criminal conduct of others. Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A member of the Lions Club, Jim also serves on the boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

APPEALS • BANKRUPTCY • BUSINESS LAW • COLLECTIONS • ESTATE PLANNING

THE MCINTOSH LAW FIRM
Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill)
Davidson, NC 28036 • (704) 892-1699 • www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

Sandy Carnegie, a Davidson native, has spent almost 30 years representing clients who have suffered substantial injuries due to another person’s negligence or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the law including contract preparation and review, residential and commercial closings, land development and acquisition as well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia. In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community. Sandy and his wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as a commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & AM. and has coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the Davidson, Cornelius, and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION • PERSONAL INJURY • REAL ESTATE • WILLS & TRUSTS