16 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29, 2009

Baseball sweeps UNC-G Spartans
Tan Qua
Staff Writer

The Davidson baseball team won all three games they played against UNC-Greensboro this weekend at Wilson Field. The Wildcats seemed to feed off the stellar North Carolina weather and the “spring frolics” atmosphere that pervaded campus to put together a great weekend performance. Playing games on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, the Wildcats beat UNC-G 5-4, 4-2, and 5-4 respectively. The Wildcats have won four straight, catapulting their SoCon record above .500 to a respectable 11-10 mark. The win streak also brings the team’s overall record to 17-21 on the season.

Mike Frongello ’11 was sensational in the series, garnering SoCon Baseball Pitcher of the Week for his performance in the games from April 20-26. Frongello earned two wins and logged 11 and 2/3 innings of scoreless relief work over the week and was an integral contributor in their sweep of UNC-G.

In Friday’s game, Frongello’s three shutout relief innings, combined with Chase Fitzpatrick’s ’09 two home runs, propelled Davidson to a 5-4 victory. Fitzpatrick went 2 for 4 with 3 RBIs and two home runs, one of them the game-winner in the sixth inning. Fitzpatrick now leads the team with 12 home runs on the year. Danny Weiss ’11 began the game with a pop, belting a two-run home run to right field in the bottom of the first inning. Fitzpatrick’s pair of dingers was all Davidson needed after that to hold on to the 5-4 victory. Frongello’s three shutout innings earned him the win and Matt Webb ’09 came in and mowed down UNC-G with a one-two-three ninth to secure the save.

Davidson continued to live by the long-ball on Saturday. The Wildcats beat UNC-G 4-2, fueled primarily by Drew Gadaire’s ’12 three-run home run in the eighth inning. Chris Lamb ’12 gave Davidson a great chance to win with his pitching performance. Lamb struck out eight over 5 and 1/3 innings while surrendering only two unearned runs. Frongello and Webb combined again to finish off the Spartans with three and 2/3 innings of yet-again scoreless relief.

Mike Frongello ’11 earned Southern Conference Pitcher of the Week honors after tossing 8 2/3 shutout innings against UNCG. Webb came on in the ninth to close the game. After giving up a lead-off single, he struck out the next three UNC-G hitters to end the game. Danny Weiss continued to swing a great bat in the game, going a perfect 3-3 with one run and Seth Freeman ’12 went 2-4; they were the only two Davidson players who provided a multi-hit performance on Saturday.

Sunday, the Wildcats demonstrated some timely hitting, coming back from a 3-1 deficit to start the bottom of the seventh to eventually win 5-4 in an impressive 11th inning rally. Graham Chapman ’09 tied the score in the seventh with his two-run home run. Brett Shore ’09 began the 11th inning rally with a single to the left, going 3-5 on the day. Chapman then popped up to the catcher and Zach Kayne ’09 followed up with a walk after Shore advanced to second on a wild pitch. Kayne then moved to second and into scoring position with Drew Gadaire’s fielder’s choice that eliminated Shore at third. With the score tied at three and two on and two-out Weiss sent his third hit of the day in front of the center fielder to score Kayne and win the game for the Wildcats. Frongello was the only Davidson pitcher not to give up a run, pitching three innings of one-hit baseball. It was Frongello’s third.

See Baseball, page 15

Lance Harden ’09 Track and Field
APEX, NORTH CAROLINA

’Cats fall to Paladins in SoCon semis
ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

The Davidson women’s tennis team recently competed in the Southern Conference tennis finals in Greensboro, North Carolina. Competing in the conference tournament for the eighth consecutive year, the Wildcats fell short of the title after being eliminated in the semi-finals against top-seeded Furman University on Saturday morning. The ’Cats ended their season with an even 12-12 record.

In the team’s final match of the season, the doubles competition was stiff. The duo of Ali Gores ’10 and Molly McDevitt ’12 lost 8-4 in the No. 3 spot but with the play by Alison Rauh ’10 and Lora Dushanova ’09, the team was able to redeem themselves with the No. 2 spot win. The overall team winner for the doubles play came down to the decisive match at the No.1 spot as Davidson was represented by JOHN MORGAN Staff Writer. Both the women’s and men’s track teams posted solid performances at the SoCon outdoor championships last weekend, dominating the long-distance events in Statesboro, GA. The men brought home a fifth-place finish while the women earned the ninth spot in a competitive field. Both teams boasted first-place finishers in the 10,000 meters, the longest race in outdoor track. Danielle Ruggieri ’11 took the gold with a time of 37:45.13, clearing her nearest competitor by over 18 seconds. Emily King ’11 crossed the line in sixth for her scoring contribution to the Wildcats. Lance Harden ’09 also cleaned out his championship heat with a personal best performance of 31:27.20. Behind him, Ryan Hopkins ’12 and Greg Marcil ’11 snatched the fourth and fifth spots, respectively, giving the men’s team a further scoring boost. In the 5K, Harden again placed highest for the ’Cats, taking the conference silver, while Charlie Schmitt ’11 and Tom Divinnie ’10 rounded off the team’s domination of the heat with third and sixth place finishes, respectively. Ruggieri provided the women’s squad support in the race as well, scoring points from fourth place with a time of 18:09.38.

The 1500 meter race also witnessed another Davidson runner in the scoring column, as Alex Hoyt ’09 grabbed a fourth-place finish. Hoyt was plagued by ankle problems earlier in the year, and despite the challenges, concluded his collegiate career with a solid sub-four time of 3:57.21. Strong showings in the field events provided the final scoring for the teams’ resumes. Kittery Neale ’09 launched a discus throw of 39.39 meters to earn her the fourth-place position. Neale also placed tenth in the shot put and ninth in the javelin events. Her classmate Will Funderburg ’09 found a fifth-place finish in the shot put, firing his best shot put throw of the season at 14.68 meters. He also took eighth in the discus throw.

With the performances of Ruggieri, King, and Neale, the women’s team totaled 23 points over the weekend. Their ninth-place showing put them just four points behind the Citadel, showing positive signs for upward mobility in the coming years. The women’s team will look for its top finishers this year to carry the torch. While the ’Cats will miss the competitiveness of sprinters Kim Colley ’09 and Bea Bush ’09 and triple jumper Kennesia Martin ’09, they will gain an edge from Sarah Cline ’11, who grabbed the 11th spot in the 1500 this year. Lauren Childs ’11 hung in the middle of the pack during the 3000-meter steeplechase, picking up ninth, and is positioned for a scoring spot in the future.

The men’s team notched an even higher overall score at the SoCon Championships, with 63 points. Next year, rivals Citadel and Samford will be ripe for the picking, as they led the ’Cats by only 3.5 and 7 points, respectively. Leading the future charge will be Taylor Martin ’12, whose 51.48-second performance in the 400 garnered him an eighth-place finish in his first conference championship.

See Track, page 15

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Gadaire’s three-run blast in 8th propels ’Cats to 4-2 win

Competing in his final SoCon Outdoor Championships, Harden won the 10,000 meter run and earned a runner-up finish in the 5,000 meters as well, helping Davidson to a fifth-place finish. The victory in the 10,000 was the senior’s first conference win of his career as he garnered All-SoCon honors in both events. The Wildcats were trailing UNCG 2-1 with two runners on base and two outs in the bottom of the 8th inning when Drew Gadaire ’12 hit the first pitch from Spartan closer Rob Gilliam over the right field wall to give the ’Cats a 4-2 victory.