“It’s old advice that everyone needs a little “R and R.” Even Davidson students. This week, while discussing the Staff Editorial with The Davidsonian staff and even casually with friends, a variety of possible topics came to surface: midterm exams; upcoming grant, internship and grad school applications; summer research and study abroad plans; and, fittingly, stress management techniques. All of these potential themes suggest that the Davidson lifestyle is back in full swing. After slightly more than six weeks of being back on campus, we look up from our textbooks and see that the summer has cooled off and turned into fall, the work has stacked up around us and the anxiety of struggling to keep up with the pace has set in. The honeymoon is over. Breaks here at Davidson are precious time! Nevertheless, it always surprises me as to how Davidson students choose to spend those few free days on the school calendar. Several are pursuing an interest, hobby, or project that was pushed aside during the waning days of summer vacation. It speaks volumes to the character of Davidson students who willingly sacrifice one of their only mid-semester breaks in order to give back to others or to challenge themselves in some new and different way. Whether staying in Davidson, traveling on a service trip, or returning to your hometown, each of us has a unique perspective on how to spend Fall Break. More importantly, however, each of us has our own idea of how, as Davidson students, we spend our free time. We, at The Davidsonian, want to hear your Fall Break stories. We want to see what makes us Davidsonians outside of Chambers. How do we act outside of our “Davidson bubble?” What does it mean to have “free time” — a concept that’s too often foreign to us during the school year? Do we really go on “breaks,” or do we simply start new projects? Is taking a little “R and R” only something our parents do?

The Davidsonian
Editor-in-Chief: Brett Willis
Managing Editor: Greg Newman
News Editors: Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood
Perspectives Editors: Bryan Norris & Clint Smith
Arts & Living Editor: Jennifer Gambrell
Yow! Editor: Alex Greening
Sports Editors: Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
Head Copy Editors: Christy Carry & Nami Patel
Business & Circulation Managers: Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright
Online Editor: Greg Newman
Assistant Copy Editors: Joel Fineman, Elizabeth Watts & Jeffrey Roth
Photography Staff: Bill Giduz & Tripp Bartholomew

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Only the staff editorial represents the views of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Email Jordan Wall at jowall@davidson.edu for advertising inquiries.

JED SMYTHE
Guest Columnist

Bobby DesPain is, for me, a very interesting fellow. Mr. DesPain almost always manages to make the most intriguing generalizations, such as the one two weeks ago about our Associated Press. Mr. DesPain maintains, “The AP has never been an organization which supports the United States Military.” I have found a few AP articles which portray the fallacy of Mr. DesPain’s statement: “Shock Trauma Doctors Praise Military” describes the excellent level of care medics give soldiers in poor conditions, such as a helicopter deck; “Harvard professor deploys to Afghanistan” favorably profiles a current Army officer; “Ohio soldier killed in Afghanistan has Mississippi ties” favorably profiles an exemplary member of the Army; “Army has its say after King’s remark” reprints favorable statistics about Army literacy given by an Army spokesman; “Army Corps of Engineers releases Cape Wind Draft Environmental Impact Statement to public” details the findings of an Army Corps of Engineers inquiry, demonstrating the Army’s engineers as thorough and competent; and “Democrats praise military progress” outlines Democratic praise of the surge in Iraq. A quick read of these articles will suffice to conclude that the AP chooses to quote most subjective matter, a prudent choice as news organizations are supposed to present facts. Opinions, whenever they appear in news, ought to come from interviewees, not from interviewers. Taking these articles as a sample of AP work, it is quite clear that the AP refrains from letting its writers publish their own personal opinions. In fact, almost every article contains differing views from several people. I would assume any argument which holds Mr. DesPain’s generalization as its thesis would contend that quoting favorable statements about the United States Military and its members made by individuals outside the AP does not equate to the news wire service praising the US Military. As a matter of fact, I agree with the previous premise. Such a contention also releases the AP of responsibility for quotations which attack the US Military. In fact, news is meant to function in this capacity, quote proponents of both sides, present some facts about the interaction between those two sides, and move on to the next story. Impartiality is the governing principle. Furthermore, as a news wire service, the AP is responsible for procuring news stories, not distributing them. Historically, news wires would write the article and then sell it to local papers which generally lack the resources required to cover the globe. Only recently has the AP had a direct link through the internet to the private consumer. In terms of tradition, compare the AP website to Thomson-Reuters’. The AP is certainly more staid, restricting access to its stories. Such a traditional news wire can hardly be considered as espousing the private opinions of its employees upon the public.news-reading public. Editorials exist in newspapers. I searched “Associated Press Editorial,” what I found were several transcripts of an interview with the AP’s Editorial Board. To accuse the AP of selling us employee opinions is like accusing a farmer of selling us rotten produce. The generation of the good was done independently of the retail. The retailer is responsible for the condition of the final product; if the tomatoes were initially bad, the retailer should never have bought them in the first place. The most horrific part of Mr. DesPain’s argument is not his invective against the American news industry giant. Mr. DesPain makes a very dangerous assertion without ever stating it as such. He writes, “Robert Gates [called] the image’s publication ‘appalling,’...[and] asked the AP’s president to prevent publication.” Mr. DesPain approves this desire to not print the gruesome image of a soldier’s “worst, most private moment.” Using Mr. DesPain’s logic, a derivative of Defense Secretary Gates’, pictures of war do not deserve to be printed because they violate the privacy of warriors. If this thought were to be carried to its logical conclusion, military historians ought to be executed! How dare they analyze the lives of soldiers, let alone generals! The real danger of this argument is that it seeks to limit knowledge of warfare to those who suffer its evils. In our country, it is illegal to accept other people’s ignorance of danger as grounds for responsibility. Think of the McDonald’s coffee lawsuit. An idiot burnt themselves and was deemed to deserve monetary compensation because there was no warning that a hot beverage was hot. If our people are this dumb, they will never know that war is bad unless they see it for themselves. Furthermore, the violation of the young man’s privacy occurred when someone made a conscious decision to kill him. If by publicizing his death, it is possible to prevent a single person from ever considering violence, then the photographer is morally obligated to publish the photo. I have one last question that will really toy with your mind: if it is morally bankrupt and the epitome of disgraceful evil to publish the anguished last moments of a victim of institutional violence, then the Bible ought to be burned, since Jesus died in practically the exact same way. Jed Smythe ’10 is an English major from Medfield, MA. Contact him at jesmythe@davidson.edu.

Defining the President we need

Two Barack Obamas exist when it comes to dealing with the world’s evils. One Barack Obama orders special operators to shoot pirates in lifeboats and blow up trucks with high-level terrorists inside. The other Barack Obama bows to Saudi Kings, caves to Russians, and thinks Iran’s thirst for the bomb will be quenched if the US just listened to the Mullahs. Guess which President is better for the United States. It is not the President who spoke at the UN General Assembly and still believes in that body’s effectiveness. The UN is merely a larger microphone for the world’s worst to spread their evil. Every time the United States speaks in a body, which also hears Ahmadinejad and Chavez, the line between good and evil smudges. The recent UN Assembly surpassed its usual amount of lunacy even disregarding Gaddafi’s rambling monologue. When Israel’s Prime Minister has to produce physical evidence in order to show the anti-Semites the Holocaust occurred, the body is beyond reproach. Of course, physical evidence does not prevent Ahmadinejad and company from acknowledging the Holocaust but rather their own political aims. The day before Benjamin Netanyahu held up the blueprints of Auschwitz, Ahmadinejad took the podium and delivered his normal rhetoric but found several countries (US included) walking out on him. That is a great gesture but an empty one. Does the walk-out mean Iran will stop murdering its own people? Does it mean Iran will cease and desist its quest for the bomb? Unfortunately, “no” is the answer to these questions. How could it be otherwise when the US was simultaneously setting up talks with Iran? What has our championed liberty, capitalism, and military gained? A walk-out. The countries who walked out seemed to be shocked Ahmadinejad would once again espouse his anti-Semitism (at the UN no less). Why are they surprised? The UN has always been a friend to the oppressors of the world. Whether it was Arafat in 1974 or Gaddafi in 2009, the UN is a place for evil to gain legitimacy as the lights of liberty dim. Evil also likes the UN because it provides time. What is the one thing Iran needs? Time to build a bomb. Thus, they will agree to talks, inspectors, more talks, outside enrichment, and even more talks. Talks do nothing to prevent them from getting the bomb but only help them. Want to move from the street to the big top? Build a nuclear bomb. So why would talks sway Iran? What can we give them that a nuclear bomb cannot? Meanwhile, this is what the supposed leader of liberty, the President of the United States is saying: “I am well aware of the expectations that accompany my presidency around the world. These expectations are not about me. Rather they are rooted, I believe, in a discontent with a status quo that has allowed us to be increasingly defined by our differences.” Of course, the world is defined by its differences as it should be. There is a difference between liberty and tyranny. Between those who regard women as equals and those who find rape as socially acceptable as a handshake. Between those who champion tea parties and those who torture protestors. American exceptionalism exists for a reason. It is the reason the world does not fly the swastika, the rising red sun, or the hammer and sickle. Bobby DesPain ’11 is a biology major from St. Louis, MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.