Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN ELECTIONS 2009

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2009

Student Government Association Candidates

SGA President

DARRELL SCOTT

While SGA is a strong force on campus, we should maintain our force by strengthening our current initiatives rather than expanding through new programming. My goal is to take SGA back to the basics by focusing on student activism. Since freshman year, through SGA and other organizations, I have been involved with many aspects of student life surrounding social awareness such as Town Hall Discussions, Jena 6 forums, the Rally for Change, and Engage for Change. As students, we have a lot of influence and must continue to spearhead institutional change and to strengthen relationships between students, faculty, and other groups in our community. My platform is simple: increasing awareness of what affects students, bursting the Davidson bubble, and boosting student-community activism on a local and regional level. I want every voice heard and understood clearly while keeping things creative and fun. This can only happen with your support. Each of us has something different to offer this campus regardless of our affiliations and identities; therefore, we owe it to ourselves to make this campus what WE want it to be. Let’s come together as a community to work more efficiently. Please exercise your right to vote and elect me as your next SGA President.

MEIKAELA ZWIERYZNSKI

As the current President of the Class of 2010, I am running for SGA to continue my work and dedication to Davidson College. Through my various roles and positions on campus, I have connected with both students and faculty in the Davidson community, allowing me to develop effective leadership skills and a strong Davidson network both inside and outside the College walls. I worked closely with faculty and administration during the conversation about grades at Davidson. I have represented students on the Curriculum Study Group, evaluating the current curriculum during the College’s Strategic Assessment, and have also represented students for two years on the faculty Educational Policy Committee, overseeing all academic policy and academic changes in the College. Furthermore, I have focused on student input while serving on the SGA’s Academic Policy Committee, where I led a forum series that addressed various academic issues and questions with the student body, ensuring that student voices and opinions were heard. And this semester I have served as the current Student Life Committee Chair, working all year on research and development of the ZipCar initiative, a car-sharing program that would increase student mobility and access to both personal and group transportation. My past leadership roles on campus have equipped me with the skills and experience needed to lead the SGA as we work through challenging times to make Davidson a stronger and better community.

SGA Vice President

ANDY DUNN

Working in the Student Government Association requires not only experience as a Senator, but also experience as a Davidson student. From my positions within the SGA, the RLO Advisory Committee, the Library Advisory Committee, and many other ad hoc groups, I have actively spoken out on behalf of the student body and initiated improvements in the quality of life for Davidson students. For example, the renovation of the Carnegie Guest House for students returning from abroad emerged from my discussions with RLO. The need to educate and communicate campus-wide feelings concerning financial aid and tuition as many students and their families quietly suffered devastating financial setbacks developed when I did not think the current SGA administration addressed the situation appropriately. The duty of Vice President of the SGA is to make sure those concerns of the student are brought forth and communicated to the administration as both work to ensure the quality of the Davidson community for everyone. This next term is an important and critical time. From my platform as a Vice President, I want to emphasize my commitment to student voice and representation. I want you to know that I will continue to serve with your best interests in mind in order to protect the privileges you and your organizations have worked hard to achieve and to foster positive change on campus for the whole student body. It’s time to actually take a stand and influence change. Please vote Andy Dunn for Vice President.

ANDREW HUMPHREY

This is the best time of our lives... four years of unadulterated bliss, freedom, and gettin’ jiggy? If this is the case...

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.For you, then Davidson has truly done well to satisfy your wants and desires. If this is not the case for you, I would suggest you make the necessary measures to make your experience at Davidson a better one. That being said, I want to extend myself to you to help make your college experience exactly what you want it to be. As a minority student and former RA, I have experienced situations that have caused me and others some discomfort. In response to the few issues that have arisen, dialogue was initiated, forums were created, bonds were made, and problems were settled. That’s the Davidson way. At Davidson, appeal directly to the human spirit in a personal manner is all that we need to accomplish change. As a former member of RLO, a member of fraternity life, and a recent returner from studies abroad, my appreciation for Davidson College has grown to heights I never knew it could. Through my efforts here at Davidson, including the academic ups and downs, I have realized that these four years are totally up to the student in question. As an aspiring Vice President for SGA, I desire to use my experiences in leadership to serve as a promoter/encourager for students standing in the need of innovation. Davidson is what YOU make it, and a vote for HUMPHREY will help YOU take it.

Vice President: 
————
LAUREN ROBLES

After spending a year on the Student Government Association as the representative for Connor House, I have come to a better understanding of how the SGA currently operates and what improvements are needed to increase the transparency of this organization. Most students at Davidson do not understand what SGA does; and therefore, do not think that much can change with any given SGA Vice President. The Vice President is responsible for overseeing the nine standing committees of the SGA ranging from student life to auxiliary services to academic policy. These committees should serve as the gateway to gathering the views of the student body, but so far have not done their job in informing the public of what their involvement is within Davidson College. My main goal as Vice President is to open up SGA to the student body, so that each person knows that their voices will be heard and their ideas put into action. I am not going to make specific promises, and those who do should do so with caution. I would like to promise you a means of communication, rather than pledging grand plans that realistically cannot be carried out. Frankly, it is not my ideas that are most important. As SGA Vice President, what is most important is allowing the student body to get their ideas across, and to let the student body know the workings of their student government, so they finally believe that SGA is a pathway to improving Davidson College.

BAKER SHOGRY

My priority is to ensure that all of us, as students of Davidson College, have every opportunity possible to constructively impact our campus and each other. I currently serve as a Representative to SGA, and the past year has afforded me the chance to observe and learn from Davis, Ali, and all the dedicated participants in student government. Student government exists for the benefit of students, and I feel that I have gained the knowledge necessary to help coordinate SGA to achieve its highest potential in this regard. In addition to my SGA involvement, I participate in various extracurricular student organizations, club sports teams, and am a second-generation member of Patterson Court. I have seen firsthand the ways in which these groups contribute to a healthy and fulfilling collegiate atmosphere. But most importantly, I have seen how the different activities and passions of all students on campus not only enrich their own lives, but enrich the lives of all those living and learning around them. Thus, SGA must always take into consideration the rights and representation of every student and group on campus, and I endeavor to uphold this consideration as paramount in my actions and the actions of student government. I recognize that during our time at Davidson, our greatest assets are those who surround us. As Vice President, I will strive always to place this understanding at the core of our Student Government, and ensure that it drives all we undertake.