12. Res photo by Evan Mintz; Stephen Curry '10 drives for two of his game-high 39 points in the Wildcats’ 83-68 win over Elon. The ’Cats return to the court tonight as they host Furman at 7 p.m.

’Cats rolling as record SoCon streak reaches 37
Ray Francis
Staff Writer

Davidson’s march through the Southern Conference continued unabated last week as the Wildcats defeated Appalachian State 70-52, Elon 83-68, and Georgia Southern 89-68 to run their record conference winning streak to 37 games.

The Wildcats knocked off the Mountaineers before the largest crowd (8,350) ever to witness a game at Holmes Arena. Those fans may have been disappointed, as superstar guard Stephen Curry '10 experienced foul trouble and garnered only 18 minutes. Nevertheless, Curry added sixteen points, six assists, and three steals. Defensive specialist Max Paulhus Gosselin ’09 and Will Archambault ’10 each added 14 points while Brendan McKillop ’11 totaled 13 to pace the Wildcats and offset Curry’s absence. Gosselin also led the Wildcats with six rebounds.

Curry picked up his fourth foul with 15 minutes to play in the game with his team up by nine. Rather than fold with their star on the bench, Davidson instead expanded the lead to 16 points. The lead eventually reached 21 in the closing minutes of the game. The Mountaineers trailed 33-30 at halftime despite shooting only 2-of-11 from beyond the three-point line. Their efforts in the second half were hamstrung by a 2-of-9 performance from the foul line. Appalachian State also turned the ball over 17 times. Kellen Brand led the home team with 21 points.

Davidson’s streak continued on Wednesday night as the Wildcats notched the 200th victory in Belk Arena history with their defeat of the Elon Phoenix. Curry rebounded from his off night against Appalachian by scoring 39 points. Paulhus Gosselin added ten points while Andrew Lovedale '09 contributed nine points and seven rebounds. Curry almost outscored Elon by himself in the first half, pouring in 23 points as Davidson raced out to a 46-24 halftime edge. The Phoenix rallied in the second half, briefly closing to within 13 points before a 9-2 Wildcat run closed the deal. Davidson shot 13-of-21 from beyond the arc and led the battle of second-chance points 25-17. The game was the fifth sell-out of the season at Belk Arena.

The Wildcats continued their conference dominance on Sunday against Georgia Southern. In the arena where they clinched a perfect conference record last year, the Wildcats were dominant from start to finish. Curry led Davidson with 28 points, while Lovedale added 16 points and 15 rebounds. Bryant Barr '10 added 11 points and Dan Nelms '10 added a career-high seven points and five rebounds off the bench. The ’Cats were never seriously threatened, leading 17-7 early before going up 41-19 with four minutes to play in the first half. The lead would eventually expand to 28 and the Eagles went down quietly in defeat. Davidson out-rebounded Georgia Southern 52-34, including an 18-8 edge on offensive boards. The ’Cats’ dominance allowed them to extend a remarkable streak of having not trailed in the past 157 minutes and 50 seconds of game action. They last trailed by a single point just over two minutes into their game against The Citadel on January 10th.

The three games pushed Davidson’s record to 14-3 overall and 7-0 in the Southern Conference. The victories in conference have given the Wildcats a boost after suffering double-digit defeats to powerhouses Purdue and Duke over Christmas break. Davidson will continue its conference campaign with home games Wednesday against Furman and Saturday against Wofford. Both contests will be at 7 p.m.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009

Delgehausen shines as Wildcats swim past Eagles
PETER COSTA
Staff Writer

The women’s swimming and diving team traveled south on Saturday, Jan. 17 for a meet against theEagles from Georgia Southern. At the end of the meet, the Wildcats had squeaked out a 123-118 victory. Each of the swimmers continued their strong performances from the meet at Duke University a week earlier. This meet began with the 400-yard medley relay, in which the Wildcats’ ‘A’ Team took top honors. Anna Stringfield '11, Caroline Curtiss '10, Emily Castle '11, and Courtney Sanders '09 teamed up to win the race with a time of 3:59.63. In the 1000-yard freestyle event, Jessica Delgehausen '10 finished first with a time of 10:22.13. Next up was the 200-yard freestyle, and Stringfield picked up another win with a time of 1:54.56. In the 50-yard freestyle, which is known as the “splash and dash” because of its fast nature, Lindsey Martin '11 and Castle finished second and third respectively with times of 24.11 and 24.74. Martin’s time was .01 behind the winner, Courtney Martz from Georgia Southern. In the 400-yard individual medley, Lauren Kamperman '12 finished second, with a time of 4:36.97. Linnea Buttermore '10 backed up her performance.

The Davidson men’s swim team fell just short in Durham at a tri-meet against USC and Duke on Jan. 10.

After 7-0 start, Wildcats drop first conference games
JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

While most of Davidson’s campus emptied over winter break, it was business as usual for the women’s basketball team. With the pressure of exams behind them, they tore apart the beginning of the SoCon schedule. Opening 7-0 in conference, a school record, the 'Cats have positioned themselves for the season’s second-half sprint after recent losses to Charleston and Chattanooga.

The break began with a trip to Ohio for matchups against Xavier and Cincinnati Universities. As part of the nation’s 34th most difficult out-of-conference schedule, those games posed major challenges for the young team. Though the 'Cats dropped both games, they benefited from such athletic competition. Head Coach Annette Watts even admitted some concern over the strenuous schedule. “I felt like it was really almost too tough for us. We were playing teams that were, athlete-for-athlete, absolutely phenomenal.” Though the benefits of the Xavier and Cincinnati losses are clear now, they were not initially recognizable. “We were 1-6, 1-7, and 1-8, and that’s tough,” Watts said. The team’s response, however, focused entirely on what lay ahead. “We didn’t even talk about [our record],” she said.

After a brief holiday break, the 'Cats returned to Belk Arena to face Wofford. Though they entered the game with shaky confidence, the Wildcats managed to pull out a solid 15-point victory. The Wofford game was followed by successful campaigns against SoCon opponents Elon, UNC-Greensboro, and Georgia Southern. The Elon game at home on Jan. 3 was particularly special — it marked a new record for the team, a 5-0 start to conference play. Finally, the 'Cats could appreciate the importance of their early struggles. “The players saw what the non-conference schedule had done for us,” Watts said. “They didn’t see anything they hadn’t already seen.” Along with the excitement came new expectations.

Player of the Week
Ben Altman '10
WRESTLING
WILMINGTON, DELAWARE

The junior wrestler went 3-0 in his matches when the Wildcats squared off against Virginia Tech, Lock Haven, and Gardner-Webb on Jan. 10. After his strong performance, Altman earned SoCon Student-Athlete of the Week honors for the second time in his career. The mathematics major also excels in the classroom with a 3.81 GPA.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Women’s 400 medley relay sets pool record at Ga. Southern

The women’s 400 medley relay team consisting of Courtney Saunders '09, Caroline Curtiss '10, Emily Castle '11, and Anna Stringfield '11 set a pool record with an event-winning time of 3:59.63 at Georgia Southern. It was one of four pool records set by the Wildcats on the afternoon as they triumphed over the Eagles 123-118 in the CCSA meet.