THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES

The danger of forgive and forget

ZEKE WEBSTER
Guest Columnist

George W. Bush made many mistakes that we can now correct only by doing things differently. The only thing Barack
Obama can do to undo Bush’s disastrous foreign, economic, and environmental agendas is to implement better policies. But when President
Obama addresses the myriad abuses of presidential power to wiretap, imprison, and torture, simply reversing Bush’s mistakes will not be
enough.

An overwhelming body of evidence compiled by journalists like Jane Mayer and Ron Suskind, as well as whistleblowers within the
administration, suggests that terror suspects were subjected to previously proscribed interrogation techniques, and that such practices were authorized by very
senior officials, if not the President himself. Many of these techniques, particularly waterboarding, are regarded as torture by the Geneva
Convention and U.S. law. This means that there is considerable evidence that several members of the Bush administration are, in
fact, war criminals. Dozens of terror suspects and suspected insurgents in Iraq have been killed in U.S. custody in the
course of these “harsh interrogations.”

Unfortunately, while Obama seems committed to ending such practices, he does not intend to investigate these crimes or explore prosecution.
Speaking on “Meet the Press” on Jan. 11, Obama said, “We need to look forward as opposed to looking backwards...I
don’t want [intelligence operatives interrogating terror suspects] to suddenly feel like they’ve got to spend all of their time looking
over their shoulders and lawyering.” This is a huge mistake. If we do not act now to deny the nearly
unlimited powers that Bush has asserted, we leave the door open for future presidents to abuse them even more seriously.

There are many reasons that those responsible will never stand trial or disclose their abuses, but the most significant is
also the most worrying: the American people just don’t seem to care very much about these issues. Rather, they are
inclined to give the government the benefit of the doubt when it says that these powers are being used to
keep Americans safe. Since all of these programs have been conducted in secrecy, we have no idea whether the allegations
are true, though the rampant politicization of the Justice Department under Alberto Gonzales does not bode well.

There are many reasons that those responsible will never stand trial or disclose their abuses, but the most significant is
also the most worrying: the American people just don’t seem to care very much. But even if we take Bush,
Cheney, and their minions at their word, there is ample cause to hold them accountable for their crimes and abuses.
Today, we rightly remember Richard Nixon’s administration for its lawlessness and disregard for the constitution, but the abuses of power
that led to Watergate didn’t come out of thin air. Nixon’s predecessors amassed expanded executive powers over many years before
he took them to such extremes. J. Edgar Hoover wiretapped Martin Luther King Jr.’s phones long before Nixon was inaugurated.

If we do not act now to deny the nearly unlimited powers that Bush has asserted, we leave the door
open for future presidents to abuse them even more seriously. The former president has spent the last eight years insisting
upon his authority to spy on American citizens without authorization, to kidnap and imprison people, including American citizens, without legal
recourse, to torture prisoners, and to engage in such behavior without the knowledge or approval of Congress. Do we really
think that these powers will not be used on journalists, political opponents, or other innocents if such behavior is allowed
to continue?

If we are to truly free ourselves of these abuses, and truly comply with international law, and truly stand for
human rights, we need to ensure that we aren’t letting Americans get away with war crimes, even if it is
politically convenient to do so.

Zeke Webster ’09 is a political science major from Clemmons, N.C. Contact him at zewebster@davidson.edu

Student-generated music vital to collective self-awareness

MARIO SILVA
Guest Columnist

As I contemplate the end of my Davidson career, I experience a varied mix of emotions: hope, fear, happiness, pride.
I cannot believe that four years can go by so quickly. And although those four years were filled with a
seemingly endless string of activity, I cannot help but contemplate what could have been. No matter how much one does,
there always seems to be more to do. In my time at Davidson, there is one thing that I wish
I had done. In this article, I'd like to explain to you why this issue is important to me and
why it matters to Davidson.

In my four years at Davidson, I wish I had done more to promote new, student-written music. This is not
to sayThat Davidson is lacking in student-written music. At “Live Thursdays,” at “New Music Davidson,” at Summit and at the
Outpost, I’ve heard really fine student-written music of every stripe. But too often students are content to play someone else’s
music. I submit that more student-generated music will make Davidson a stronger, more self-aware community. In order to make my
case, I’ll first describe the role of music in a society and then explain why it is particularly beneficial to
a community like Davidson’s.

If one takes the music of a community as a whole, it reflects the collective experiences and biases of that
community. I understand art as a prismatic mirror. Art takes in life, refracts it through the prism of one’s experience
and biases, and reflects it back on the observer. Art requires both the creator and the observer to fulfill its
purpose. This conception of art applies particularly well to music. Music is the most abstract art. It cannot directly reflect
life and, thus, more clearly reflects the creator’s prism. It allows one a direct image of its creator’s experiences and
biases. If one takes the music of a community as a whole, it reflects the collective experiences and biases of
that community. And when a community is both a prolific creator and an attentive observer, it can clearly see itself.

In order for our community to grow in this way, we need a view of ourselves. We need self-knowledge on
a large scale. Student-created music provides this vital knowledge. This kind of self-analysis is what college is about. The years
we spend at Davidson are meant to prepare us for lives of scholarship and service. We are meant to grow
from naive teenagers to intellectually gifted adults. And this transformation cannot occur without self-knowledge. And while we are here to
be transformed by Davidson, we also have an obligation to change Davidson for the better. We, as a community, should
continually strive to be a community of intellectually gifted adults. In order for our community to grow in this way,
we need a view of ourselves. We need self-knowledge on a large scale. Student-created music provides this vital knowledge.

In order to experience the benefits that student-written music can offer, I encourage you to both create and observe. Take
the opportunity to present your view to our community, and examine the views of your peers. This will make each
of us more aware of who we are as a college and allow us to grow.

Mario Silva ’09 is a music major from Bloomington, IL. Contact him at masilva@davidson.edu

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009

Bush fundamentally altered American foreign policy. No longer would Islamic terrorism be treated as a criminal act to be punished
in courts of law. Rather than reacting to attacks, the United States would take offensive action against Islamic terrorists and
the states that sponsored them before attacks occurred. This was a preemptive approach to terrorism. The cost of not anticipating
an attack was too great. A fundamentally different policy was required—one that targeted not only individual terrorists but also the
networks to which they belonged. But even that was insufficient. The decentralized and global nature of terror networks, like al
Qaeda, makes destroying them cell by cell, terrorist by terrorist, impossible. Only by targeting the states that supported them could
the U.S. hope to succeed. President Bush made this clear in declaring, "We will make no distinction between the terrorists
who committed these acts and those who harbor them." In keeping with this declaration, President Bush ordered the invasion of
Afghanistan, whose Taliban regime had given safe haven to al Qaeda.

The most controversial aspect of the Bush presidency was the invasion of Iraq. The prevalence of the belief that the
Sept. 11 attacks were connected to Iraq was never found to be true. But, in judging the decision to go
to war, what is important is what was understood at the time of the decision. And, at the time, not
acting would have been seen as a greater risk.

After years of violence and chaos, for which President Bush deserves much blame, he defiantly sent more troops to Iraq.
Today, we owe President Bush much for his defiance. The surge likely prevented still more violence and, even worse, the
establishment of an Iranian satellite state or a Taliban-style exporter of terrorism. The surge provided the security needed for the
political reform Iraqis are currently conducting. And, perhaps most importantly, it demonstrated to the world that war is not a
quick fix but a long-term commitment.

President Bush’s policy and our national security seem more than coincidental. He understands that our enemies are firm in their
resolve. He understands that if we tire, we will falter.

Contact him at zabennett@davidson.edu
