I think it’s fair to say that Davidsonians love being on top. It’s also fair to say that this mentality has a deep-rooted tradition in Davidson culture. Look no further than our fight song to hear us boast: “O Davidson! You are the best/ Old college in the East or West./ You play a fair game;/ You play a square game;/ And you win in everything.” Despite some slight bias in our reputable fight song, we, at Davidson, do pride ourselves on having built a culture of overachievement. The more we do, and the higher our expectations of ourselves, the better. This isn’t an all-around bad mentality. Why shouldn’t we be proud of ourselves, and our school, for doing well—for always wanting to be, and usually ending up, the best?

A professor recently brought to my attention the fact that Davidson recently received yet another major accolade. The Princeton Review ranked the College's faculty first in the nation under the category of “Professors Get High Marks.” We, at The Davidsonian, would like to commend the College’s faculty on this impressive recognition. This only adds to the many forms of positive national attention that Davidson has received in the past few years.

Hearing this made me reflect on another recent college rankings article published in the August 24, 2009 issue of Forbes magazine. The article, “The Best Colleges and Business Schools,” ranked Davidson first among North Carolina colleges and universities, beating UNC-CH and, yes, even Duke. Davidson was ranked 60th overall, however, placed behind many competing liberal arts institutions that the College consistently surpasses in other national rankings, such as U.S. News and World Report. Given that the criteria for all such ranking systems vary according to the nature of the publication and the publication’s readership, these results nevertheless represent a huge disparity. In the Forbes report, Duke, a perennial top-10 university in U.S. News and World Report, was ranked well outside of the top 100.

As much as I...

Editor-in-Chief: Brett Willis
News Editors: Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood
Perspectives Editors: Bryan Norris & Clint Smith
Arts & Living Editor: Jennifer Gambrell
Yowl Editor: Alex Greening
Sports Editors: Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
Head Copy Editors: Christy Carry & Nami Patel
Business & Circulation Managers: Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright
Online Editor: Greg Newman
Assistant Copy Editors: Joel Fineman, Elizabeth Watts, Jeffrey Roth

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Only the staff editorials represent the views of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Email Jordan Wall at jowall@davidson.edu for advertising inquiries.

By Hayden Higgins, Guest Columnist

Last week, Ryan Gough ’10 wrote an article for this paper titled “Huffington Post in my Davidsonian?” (The Huffington Post is a left-leaning news publication), deriding the fact that a fellow Davidsonian “cannot see through the partisan fog that clouds these pages.” His ostensible point is that the author of the previous column, Scott Matthews ’13 (“Let Obama Work” 9/9/09), wrote a politicized, one-sided argument that contributed little of value. Excuse me, but... hypocrisy? The very title of Mr. Gough’s article implies that he views any liberal viewpoint as illegitimate and unwelcome. It suggests that he does not even want to recognize the significant liberal presence at this school and in America as a whole. When he says “there have been cries from the Left that the American people are stupid and fake,” he makes no effort to indicate who on “the Left” has made such a pronouncement. He does not cite numbers or bother to present a logical argument, which is an insult to the intelligence of the average Davidsonian reader; it must be, then, that he thinks anyone who does not accept his assertions is not worth arguing with. Mr. Gough does not have to change his ideas about the world; indeed, many of them are accurate. Nonetheless, before he can make a cogent argument, he needs to accept opposing viewpoints as part of the spectrum of American political discourse.

On the other side of the coin, I am sure that there are politically-liberal individuals who, like Mr. Gough upon seeing the sanctity of his Davidsonian defiled by an opponent’s view, have choked on their Commons lunch at the weekly conservative rant they can rely on from Bobby DesPain, who miraculously sneaks the neologism ‘Islamofascism’ into almost every column he writes (to his credit, he wrote a very compassionate piece for last week’s Davidsonian). The point is not that I take offense to a conservative objecting to a liberal; the scenario could easily have been reversed. What I object to is how Mr. Gough, and others in the Davidsonian and in the wider news media, have gone about making their own assertions and denunciations. Whether one agrees or disagrees with Mr. Gough’s comments, his approach to writing is unhealthy, unlikely to persuade his opponents, and indicative of troubling larger social trends. In rebuking Mr. Matthews’ politicized, one-sided argument, he comes up with a partisan rant of his own.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2009

An Appeal for Reasoned Discourse

The scarier thing is that today this is the norm, rather than the exception. My point is twofold: firstly, the politicization of today’s media is harmful. When television anchors are in competition for viewers, they will necessarily differentiate themselves, and the first way this happens is by becoming nominally ‘liberal’ or ‘conservative’ (never mind that contemporary American politics should be looked at upon two disparate axes, one regarding economic policies and the other social policies). After this primary division, it will come to pass that those voices that yell loudest and most absurdly are the ones most listened to. This is why we have Bill O’Reilly and Keith Olbermann, neither of whom is a good source for the...news (I particularly lament Olbermann’s fall from grace; whereas O’Reilly has, as far as I can tell, always been a bad apple. Olbermann shaped my childhood as a SportsCenter anchor in the nineties). This is why middle-class families who will actually have lower taxes under the Obama administration protest against his “socialist agenda.” This is why voters whose views actually conformed with McCain voted for the more hip Obama. This is also, I would argue, a very big problem—much bigger than this column—that greatly distorts modern American domestic politics.

Secondly, the parameters for a Davidsonian editorial need to be clearly defined. Instead of the partisan polemics and drab summaries that now dominate these two pages, I would like to see well-reasoned, thought-out arguments promoting a particular point of policy. This is how we will advance, not through the he-said-she-said bickering (actually, not so much she-said—for the last two weeks at least a woman has not been published on the Perspectives page, which is probably more a testament to feminine wisdom than anything else) that characterizes Mr. Gough’s line of thought. We need, as a democratic people, to demand substantive debate based on point-by-point policy, not vague promises of ‘change’ and McCarthyist accusations that Obama is a communist/fascist/Muslim/Indonesian. Davidson has a wealth of students who, I am sure, feel passionate enough about one issue or another to write eloquently on the topic. I appeal to them to recognize the legitimacy of an opponent’s position, and then move to dissuade him, writing with clarity and not acrimony, and doing so with the aim, not of inflaming passions, but of moving forward to improve the lives of our fellow Americans.

Hayden Higgins ’12 is undeclared. He is from Danville, Ca. Contact him at hahiggins@davidson.edu

Walker Texas Ranger: The Right Choice
By THE WALKER TEXAS RANGER CAMPAIGN
Guest Columnists

With the election simulation only a week away, you, a student at Davidson College, need to ask yourself: do I want to vote for someone who has a proven background in leading with effective policies? Or, should I vote for a man who leads on the basketball court, but does not advocate for the policies that affect my life?

There are three major differences in the agendas of Cordell Walker “Texas Ranger” and Bob McKillop. We believe these differences are essential for you to understand before you vote.

The most important issue for all Americans is the debate over healthcare reform. Our current rate of health care costs is simply unsustainable. Health insurance premiums for the average American family have nearly doubled since 2000. Walker Texas Ranger believes that healthcare reform is necessary because the current system is bankrupting the nation. However, taking more money out of the pockets of hard-working Americans is not the solution. He believes that every American should have access to affordable healthcare. But having access to privatized healthcare does not mean giving it away. Walker strongly disagrees with the idea of a “public option,” and thinks that a patient-focused system will provide the highest quality and lowest cost when patients are able to choose among competing private plans. Also, Walker is committed to eliminating interstate restrictions on health insurance companies that limit individual choice and artificially inflate the price of health insurance premiums. McKillop’s passive healthcare agenda does not offer any solutions to this horrible problem. McKillop doesn’t even address the healthcare crisis and instead hides behind typically Democrat-owned issues. Green technology? How will developing environmentally friendly technology aid the nation in this healthcare crisis? The environment is a very important issue, but focusing solely on it when the healthcare crisis hangs in the balance is irresponsible.

Another key issue that is currently on the forefront in this election is the differences in philosophy over National Defense. Walker Texas Ranger has shown the ability to target political corruption, drug cartels, human smuggling, and counterfeiting rings, earning him over 2,000 arrests in both North Carolina and Texas. Furthermore, he attended Officer Candidate School and entered the United States Marine Corps as a commissioned officer, spending three years in Southeast Asia during the Vietnam War. McKillop may know how to put on a great full-court press on the basketball court, but can he put the full-court press on Congress when it comes to keeping the nation and the Tar Heel State safe? He cannot, and that’s why you should vote for someone who knows what it takes to keep you and your family safe.

A third point of emphasis in this election is the economy. No one thought the economy could get any worse when President George W. Bush left office in January of 2009. But guess what, it did. The blame lies squarely with President Obama and his fiscally irresponsible agenda (i.e., Federal Stimulus). Walker will be fiscally responsible with your tax dollars and will make sure that the government keeps its hand out of the private sector. The federal government, Walker believes, should help individuals to the extent that they can be helped. He knows that when you leave Davidson, you’ll be looking for a job, and in this economy you won’t find one, and he vows to change that. McKillop doesn’t address his plans to turn around the economic problems currently plaguing us. As a strong Democrat, McKillop is on-board with President Obama’s agenda. The federal government debt is now more than $11 trillion, and our nation’s deficit stands at $1.84 trillion. The Obama Administration claims to be ushering in an era of responsibility, but Walker Texas Ranger believes that the Obama budget has ushered in an era of taxing too much, borrowing too much, and spending too much. How will taxing the people of this great nation pump money back into the private sector? It won’t, and that’s why Walker Texas Ranger has decided that it’s time to stop spending. Enough is enough!

Editor’s Note: This piece was written as part of a simulation for Dr. Sellers’s class, POL 311. The candidates, their views, and the election are fictitious.