CO UNION BURRITOS EXHIBIT BLATANT DISREGARD FOR MEXICAN FOOD SEE PAGE 8

CAREER SERVICES NETWORKS WITH UNION CAFE FOR FREE UNCRUSTABLE SEE PAGE 3

OUTPOST EXPECTS BIG PLEDGE CLASS AFTER GETTING RUSHED THIS WEEKEND SEE PAGE 4

MISERABLE STUDENT SPENDS SATURDAY NIGHT IN 24-HOUR ROOM SEE CAROL OF THE WEEK

SEARCH: **NUMBER TO HEAVEN’?

THE YOWL
Your Davidson Honor Section

Editor: Alex Greening
Writers: Peter Bruton, Amanda Ottaway, Lauren Odomirok, Vincent Weir, Jess Wentling

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

THE DENSE ISSUE

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2009

Gravediggaz

Washington—Tempers have flared in recent months over healthcare reform in the United States. President Obama has proposed a government-provided healthcare system which has all political parties up in arms. In the chaos, one group has sadly been overlooked by many politicians: the undead.

Many of America’s creatures that go bump in the night have had trouble finding affordable health insurance. Count Wilbur Von Drobstein, a resident of Pennsylvania and a vampire, has gone through a nightmare trying to find coverage. “I have been to every major health insurance company in the United States and none of them will cover me.” A spokesman from Blue Cross Blue Shield said that it is technically impossible to cover Von Drobstein since he is not living. “It’s a pre-existing condition that we will never ever cover.”

“They all told me that. What is Obama doing about this? I thought things were supposed to change. YES WE CAN!” Von Drobstein shouted before turning into a bat and flying away.

In Obama’s new healthcare plan, nothing is mentioned about coverage for the undead. Only living citizens will be guaranteed coverage. “It makes me think he doesn’t really want to change anything, just let the fat cats keep getting their paycheck,” said a melancholy zombie. “I know I am a high-risk client, I am made from rotting flesh. But in this day and age, if I can’t afford a trip to the morgue for a new human limb, there is something seriously wrong with our society.”

Vampires, Zombies, Wraiths, Ghouls, Mummies, and Spectres are amongst the highest numbers of uninsured citizens in the United States. Vermont Senator Thomas Rinaldi said, “It really is a shame no one has said anything about this group. Sad really.”

Davidson College Displays Selfish Acts of Lawn Care

Recent data published by Davidson College officials indicates that the college plans to spend $115,190 on lawn maintenance this year while some third world countries do not even have water parks. Many students were outraged by the implications of this spending agenda. “Essentially what they are saying is that our yard work is more important than these third world countries having water parks,” said Amy Chestnut ’12. “I am pretty sure that no one here is ok with that.”

Chestnut has already made plans to draw attention to this problem. Next Thursday she has called for the school to boycott looking at the lawns in hopes to raise overall community awareness. The protesters will distribute commemorative blindfolds and seeing-eye dogs to the first one hundred participants. “This is something we have needed to do for a long time now,” said Chestnut. “Hopefully by the end of this the school will realize how trivial a well-mowed lawn is when so many countries are still without basic water parks.”

In addition to the boycott, Chestnut recently unveiled her new agenda for this dream of recreational facilities a reality. The plan, designed by Chestnut herself, will involve a $6.4 billion dollar collapsible water park that will tour third world countries each summer. “It is basically a mix between a traveling circus and a huge, normal water park,” said Chestnut. “And,Like all our assistance to third world countries, simplicity guarantees its success. All they have to do is add water.

Wardrobe

If It Matters, Uncertainty | Get a Bigger Rampant

A recent psychology survey has linked childhood trauma to a disorder that prevents differentiation between tights and pants, between shirts and dresses, and between skirts and belts. A recent study conducted on NYU’s campus concluded that today’s college students simply aren’t prepared to dress themselves. Many experts agree that the blame for “wardrobe mismanagement” should be placed on the parents or guardians of adolescents. “We’ve found a lot of evidence that points to parental neglect in this simplest of areas: appropriate attire,” commented Dr. Peter Denzel, who led the study. “The desire to tell the girl with the fringe bangs that her tights were in fact, tights and not pants, was nearly uncontrollable.”

A glance around Davidson’s campus would seem to indicate that yes, there are students on campus whose mentors never explained the difference between underwear and shorts. A representative from the Admissions Office chose to comment, “We can’t turn away students simply because their parents never taught them right and wrong, or the difference between shirts and dresses. These students just need more love and attention.” Administrators seek to equal the playing field for these underprivileged students so that they can feel at home in a pair of boat shoes and a polo.

Backpack

The Davidson College Police Department is putting a new spin on its public outreach this year. The catchy slogan posted on large signs all over campus instructs students: “If it matters, take it with you.” “We’re using this campaign to weed out dishonest students who were perhaps unworthy of their admission here,” explained Honor Council president Joey Jonas. “We’re hoping it will tempt them into theft and robbery, and rest assured, we will catch them.”

The movement has resulted in mass hysteria on campus as students rush to protect their most treasured belongings. Many a wary student has been spotted towing a large wagon or army-sized knapsack to class, which usually holds his or her computer, television, most of his clothes, and his stereo system. “I tried to bring my Vespa into Chambers, just to keep an eye on it,” said freshman Roger Stoudemire. “I was just gonna park it in the hall, you know? But my professor wasn’t really OK with that.”

Many other Davidson residents have observed students walking to class with another person slung over his or her shoulder. “He’s my boyfriend,” explained one women’s basketball player matter-of-factly, of the large football player draped across her back. “He matters. I’m taking him with me.”

Discover Davidson Adds Fun

Saturday kicks off the College’s annual “Discover Davidson,” a program designed to help high school seniors decide if Davidson is right for them. The Admissions Office admits that tour guide enthusiasm has plummeted in recent weeks. They are hoping for Discover Davidson to boost morale among those sick of walking backwards and repeating the same old library statistics. “We’ve added a terrific attraction to the tours for this weekend! Everyone will get to climb to the roof of Little Library and pelt passing professors with water balloons to show families that Davidson students know how to have fun!” explained Senior Admissions Fellow Sarah Prier.

The good times will not be limited to tours. Watts Hall counselor Mary Wright exclaimed, “Our girls are so excited for the prospectives to sleep over! They’re already planning on covering the hallway in shaving cream and chocolate sauce to create a slip-n-slide. RLO won’t know what hit them!”

An inside source also admits that a plan to keep faculty from droning on at lectures is being implemented. “As soon as the first person starts nodding off, we’re going to lob grenades at the speaker and blast ‘Don’t Stop Believin’’ on the PA system.”