16

Stanford, Duke drop ’Cats

JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

After traveling up and down the east coast, the women’s lacrosse team returned to campus for its first home game in a month. The two games this weekend afforded no respite for the squad, as the ’Cats faced two top-20 opponents.

First up on Friday night was Stanford, who is currently ranked 14 on laxpower.com. As was the case for both weekend match-ups, the visiting team attacked early and left no opportunity for an upset decision. Stanford racked up the evening’s first 11 goals, taking complete control early in the first half. The Cardinals doubled Davidson’s tally in ground balls, 10 to 5, and launched 19 shots. Anna Smith ’12 broke the drought with an unassisted goal 23 minutes into the first half. Any potential spark in the Wildcat offense was extinguished by two more Stanford scores before the intermission. The superior Cardinal depth, 10 subs to Davidson’s four, enabled the guests to prevent any morale-boosting back-to-back scoring.

The second half drew steadily into a drudge match, as each side went back and forth with equal possession and shot attempts. Stanford capitalized on six more scoring opportunities, while Davidson tallied three to close the gap. Again, Smith got things started with an unassisted goal — this time the first in the half — just over seven minutes into the period. Jen Crawford ’10 and Haley Cook ’10 rounded the final tally to four, against Stanford’s eventual 19. Against the deluge of shots, goalie Michelle Pav ’10 grabbed two saves. On a positive note, the ’Cats showed consistent composure on draw controls, owning that stat column with 15 to Stanford’s nine.

Then on Saturday afternoon, Davidson took on Duke, laxpower’s third-ranked program in Division I. Coming off a loss to the North Carolina Tar Heels, the Blue Devils exploded out of the gates. The visiting team would net 8 goals before Cook put Davidson on the scoreboard with a goal off a free position shot. Duke continued the offensive pressure by scoring six more in the last 10 minutes of the first half.

In the second half, the game’s rhythm leveled in Davidson’s favor as the ’Cats held the ball more on offense and sent a few more to the back of the net. Smith took on a support role midway through the period, feeding Callie Seymour ’09 for the team’s second goal. Their efforts were followed by three straight Wildcat goals, one from Crawford and two from Cook’s free position shots. Both Crawford and Cook lead the team in scores this season, with 26 and 23, respectively. Pav stifled an impressive eight Duke shot attempts, keeping both the score and the Wildcats’ spirits in check. The Blue Devil offense simply maintained more control, with 35 shots in the match to Davidson’s 14. The visitors held a slight advantage in ground balls, 17-12, but dominated draw controls 17 to 7.

In both games, the ’Cats undoubtedly benefited from the experience of playing top-notch competition. The fluidity of the Stanford and Duke offenses, their confidence in clearing, and their unrelenting tenacity are aspects for the Davidson squad to emulate. On Tuesday, April 21, the team got its last opportunity to show off its development, taking on Presbyterian in Clinton, SC in which they proved themselves well, winning 20-9.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2009

SoCon basketball tourneys heading to Charlotte in 2010

RAY FRANCIS
Staff Writer

The Southern Conference men’s and women’s basketball championships will move to Charlotte in 2010, the conference announced two weeks ago. The tournaments were previously scheduled to take place in Chattanooga, which played host this year. The Tennessee city will host again in 2011. The move ensures that the Charlotte area will still be the most important site in the Southern Conference. The decision seeks to reduce travel costs for teams, as Charlotte is closer to the conference’s geographic center.

“We are thrilled with the opportunity to host the tournaments next year and are looking forward to hosting the conference, its schools and fans in Charlotte next March,” Mike Crum, CEO of the Charlotte Regional Visitor’s Authority, said.In a SoCon press release, the tournament will be held on March 4-8, 2010. The first three days of action will be held in Bojangles Arena (seating capacity 9,605), with the semifinals and finals to take place in Time Warner Arena, home of the Charlotte Bobcats (seating capacity 19,026).

“We think this is a step that will help ensure the future growth of our basketball tournament,” SoCon Commissioner John Iamarino said in the same press statement. “This decision is not a negative response to our recent experience in Chattanooga. On the contrary, the tournament has had some of its best financial outcomes and has been run extremely well in Chattanooga, and we’re pleased to be returning in 2011.” Next year’s tournament will be the conference’s 89th, making it the nation’s longest-running conference tournament.

No. 27 Georgia Southern sweeps Wildcats - Tan Qua Staff Writer

The men’s baseball team lost all three games in their series against No. 27 Georgia Southern last weekend in Statesboro, Ga. The team gave up a staggering 42 combined runs in three games, losing 7-12, 8-20, and 2-11 on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, respectively. Davidson dropped to 13-20 overall and fell below .500 in Southern Conference play, at 8-10, with the series sweep.

On Friday, Davidson could not survive Georgia Southern’s seven-run seventh inning onslaught. Thomas Middour ’10 made the start for Davidson, giving up a respectable three runs in six innings of work. Georgia Southern got to the Davidson bullpen, however, tacking on eight runs in the final three innings. The Davidson hitters came alive in the ninth inning, instigated by Drew Gadaire’s ’12 leadoff home run to left field. Jay Honeycutt ’10 continued the rally with a double to right center-field and Seth Freeman ’12, Chris Fitzpatrick ’09, Will General ’11, and Graham Chapman ’09 drove in four runs on four straight hits to bring the score to 7-12. However, Davidson could not complete the unlikely comeback; Gadaire grounded out in his second at-bat of the inning to end the game.

Saturday wasn’t much better for the Wildcats. The Wildcats trailed by at least seven runs all game in the 8-20 loss and were down 1-17 after seven innings. Chris Lamb ’12 gave up seven runs on six hits in the first inning, fueled mostly by Brian Pierce’s three-run double to left field. The Davidson staff surrendered eight extra-base hits and 23 total in the loss. Jake Brown stifled the Davidson offense all day, tossing six innings and giving up only one run on six hits for his Georgia Southern squad. The lineup finally rattled the Georgia Southern staff in the eighth, putting together another seven-run inning. Gadaire continued to swing well; he hit his second home run in as many days with a three-run shot, scoring Zach Kayne ’09 and Chapman. The blast was Gadaire’s team-leading 10th home run of the year.

Georgia Southern completed the sweep on Sunday with a 2-11 win. Matt Webb ’09 made the start and struggled through four innings, giving up nine runs (eight earned) on nine hits. Georgia Southern’s Matt Murray stifled the Davidson offense; he scattered nine hits and surrendered only one run in six solid innings. The Wildcats could not buy a run off of Murray—the lineup left 13 men on base, seven in the first three innings. Gadaire tried to fuel the offense in the first inning; his double to right field scored Kayne to give Davidson the early 1-0 lead. Gadaire, however, would finish 1-5.

See Baseball, page 14

Hilton UNC Invitational

After three rounds of 73, Michael Saari ’09 was named to the SoCon’s All-Conference team as the senior finished his career with a three-day total of 219, just three strokes over par in 18th place. At the Joe Hilton UNC Invitational, the senior set a new school record in the 3,000-meter run with a time of 8:31.61 to lead the Wildcats.