THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2009

“I Love You, Man”
By GARRET SAUEY
Staff Writer

After jumping into comedy writing for huge hits “Meet the Parents” and its sequel “Meet the Fockers,” director John Hamburg moved to directing. His first project was the Ben Stiller comedy “Along Came Polly” followed by this year’s “I Love You, Man,” which was shown in the Union last weekend.

Hamburg’s newest comedy could easily be confused with comedy maestro Judd Apatow’s work. It is molded in the same way that Apatow’s films are: easily accessible, split into clear parts and, of course, raunchy. “I Love You, Man” begins with views of skyscrapers piercing through a city full of lights. Deep within the metropolis, real estate agent Peter Klaven (Paul Rudd) has dreams as big as the very skyscrapers that tower over him. One of those dreams, a loving marriage, is quickly realized as he proposes to his girlfriend Zooey Rice (Rashida Jones), who excitedly accepts. Zooey immediately calls her girlfriends, who immediately begin to recall Zooey’s sexual history with Peter. A similar discussion occurs with Peter and his family. Whereas Zooey’s chat with her friends is completely silly, Peter’s is awkward. Rudd brilliantly arouses pity throughout the film, though he portrays Peter as a happy-go-lucky character. Other than the talented Rudd, Jaime Pressly and Sara Burns stand out as Zooey’s hilarious friends Hailey and Denise; their comedic timing and realistic, relentless portrayals of their characters are exceptional.

Pity for Peter grows when Zooey is told that Peter has never had a best friend—or any friends, for that matter. To remedy the situation, Peter asks his gay brother Robbie (Andy Samburg) to use his “connections” to find him a guy friend. The search throws Peter into awkward situations that fail every time. Ultimately, Peter finds the friend he needs on his own. Sidney Fife (Jason Segal), the man he meets, is an expert in human body language and thought, and therefore Peter’s foil. Where Peter is high strung and uptight, Sidney is cool and relaxed. Where Peter is uncertain, Sidney has an answer. Since opposites attract, they make the perfect match, and develop a modern-day “bromance.” Sidney is so kind and selfless that the audience may think he has ulterior motives. But he doesn’t; he just wants a friend. Peter and Sidney hit it off and develop a deep friendship. They spend so much time together that Zooey begins to feel Sidney is tearing her and Peter apart. The happy and seemingly perfect beginning of the film ends and ushers in a middle section full of separation and sadness. Zooey cannot handle the lack of attention and decides to leave Peter, which breaks down his carefully sculpted lifestyle and forces him to “break up” with Sidney. Peter lives his life as before without Sidney, while Sidney is equally alone. This anticipated separation hurts the flow of the movie because the audience knows the two men miss each other, but must separate to placate Zooey.

The final third of the movie ends well as Peter and

By RACQUEL MULLINS and AUDREY TIE
Staff Writers

How many times have you found yourself in a rush and grabbed a banana as a quick snack? Probably countless times, as the average American consumes 26.2 pounds of bananas each year. The apple doesn’t even come close; Americans eat only 16.7 pounds of apples a year. People have been reaching for the banana since 5000 BCE, when it was first cultivated in South East Asia.

The banana ranks high among healthy snacks. Its combination of high fiber and potassium helps prevent high blood pressure and bone decomposition. In many developing countries, people often rely on the banana as their sole form of carbohydrates. The disappearance of the banana would devastate humans worldwide because at most supermarkets, the Cavendish is the only

Paul Rudd and Jason Segal star as a loving pair of guy friends in “I Love You, Man,” the latest movie from director John Hamburg.Zooey make up and wed in a ceremony that is oddly similar to Apatow’s “40-Year Old Virgin.” Peter and Sidney finally see each other again at the wedding and fix their friendship. The movie ends just as it started; in a perfect state of happiness. Hamburg’s film does indeed work as a toy. It’s exciting when first opened, eventually breaks as expected, but then works again to provide the much-missed entertainment. Although “I Love You, Man” has some lapses in focus, it provides a very raunchy and accessible rom-com, which, these days, is apparently a very hard thing to do.

Student Artist Series: An interview with Wade Morgan, guitarist
By Ben IRELAND
Staff Writer

Wade Morgan ‘12, known for his appearances on “The Davidson Show” and for his uncanny Bob Ross-like haircut, has an unknown musical side. In this edition’s Student Artist Series, I had the pleasure of interviewing a talented classical guitarist whose passion has led him to fame.

The Davidsonian: “Wade, tell us a little bit about you. Many of us know you through “The Davidson Show,” but what is this other passion that you have?

Wade Morgan: “Absolutely. I’m currently in my sophomore year, planning to be one of the very few Physics majors; but inevitably, it’s possible that it can change to Music or English or maybe even to Poli-Sci. About nine years ago, I started classical guitar. At first my parents made me, but ultimately it has grown into a personal passion.”

TD: “That’s interesting. Now, in what ways has your musical career blossomed over the years?”

WM: “Well, I studied classical guitar under the guidance of Paul Holt, a professional guitarist from the band “Puddingstone.” I took what I learned from him and shaped it through the influence I experienced from listening to Per-Olov Kindgren, a well-known Swedish guitarist and teacher. Throughout the years, I learned by mimicking the styles and techniques of advanced guitarists and have come up with my personal way to interpret and play music.”

TD: “I see. How have you used your classical guitar to reach out to your audience?”

WM: “Early on, I started out playing with my brother and dad, and later moved to playing in local senior citizens’ homes. At the end of my junior year [of high school], I landed a gig at an upscale restaurant called ‘Michaels on Fourth,’ playing classical guitar during special events and during dining hours. I ultimately was very humbled and was delighted to have had the pleasure of being individually acknowledged by the Western Piedmont Symphony Orchestra for my abilities during my restaurant performances.”

TD: “That’s amazing. Now, any news on a possible upcoming CD?”

WM: “I’m very excited to announce that I have an excellent line-up of relaxing guitar music and a collection of Spanish songs that I have mastered. Back in the day, I recorded my music and have sent them as demos to national universities. As you may know, timing is everything, so stay tuned!”

TD: “Very exciting. Don’t worry; we’ll definitely stay in-the-know. Now, do you have any plans on playing a Live Thursday gig or somewhere in the Charlotte area?

WM: “Playing at Live Thursdays this year is something that I will love to do. Additionally, I may head on out to Summit Coffee and do a show over there during the week. Guitar is just one of those things that, if you take it with you, you can play it and find enjoyment anywhere you go. I’m really excited about the prospect of sharing my music with others through an on- or off-campus concert. Absolutely.”

TD: To close our interview, how is music going to play a role in your future?

WM: [laughing] “I’m letting the stars guide me on this one. One day if a music talent agent comes my way, I’ll be delighted to work with him or her to bring my music into a professional sphere, to maintain and build a vast audience, and to make my fan outreach as strong as ever. I’d love to make it big in the world; and with my guitar, I know that that’s always a possibility.”