12 Tue DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2009

Fitzpatrick, Cats outslug competition | Wildcats split games on Start season 4-1

Tan Qua
Staff Writer

The baseball team kicked off their season this weekend, playing host to Ohio, Lafayette, and Army at Davidson’s Wilson Field. The Wildcats began the season with a successful first weekend of baseball, winning three of four games. The Wildcat team channeled their excitement and anticipation of the season ahead into three quality wins this weekend.

“It felt good to get out there, get the jitters out and get some wins under our belts,” Brett Shore ’09 said. “If we play our game and take it to the opposing teams, we will have a season to remember.”

Chris Fitzpatrick ’09 hit a three-run home run in the Wildcats’ 12-5 win over Lafayette Sunday as the team opened the season 4-1. The baseball team was fortunately able to play through those jitters at home this weekend. The Wildcats kicked off the home stand with an 8-6 victory Friday over the Ohio Bobcats. Davidson combined some timely hitting with a solid pitching performance to defeat Ohio in the battle of the cats.

Davidson sent the lefty, Thomas Middour ’10, to the mound to kick off their season. Middour kept the Wildcats in the game, giving up four runs on six hits while striking out three Bobcat batters over five quality innings. The Wildcats found some timely hitting in the bottom of the seventh when James Cerbie ’12 stroked his first collegiate hit into left field for a two-run home run. Cerbie’s first hit, and first home run, gave the Wildcats an 8-6 lead that they would not relinquish. Matt Sliwiak ’11 (2-0) pitched one inning of no-hit relief in the 7th to pick up the win while Mac Hunter ’11 and Zack Kayne ’09 combined to pitch two innings of hitless relief. Kayne closed out the game, pitching 2/3 of the ninth inning to earn the save.

On Saturday, the Wildcats played a day-night doubleheader. The early game ended in a disappointment.

See Baseball, page 11

JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

In the final stretch of the regular season, the most a team can hope for is knock-out, grind-out defense. Holding both opponents over the weekend to less than 60 points, the Cats proved their mental toughness to the conference, and most importantly, to themselves. After one win and one loss, the team gazes straight ahead at the SoCon tournament.

To start the weekend, the squad traveled to Statesboro, Ga., to face Georgia Southern, with whom Davidson runs neck-and-neck in the standings. In typical Wildcat fashion, the visiting team opened the first half hesitantly, knocking down only 38 percent of its shots. Five three-pointers from Ashley Lax ’11, Monica Laune ’10 and Alex Thompson ’10 kept the Cats in the mix as they entered the locker room down 26-27.

In the second half, the team followed a season-long trend of runs. On the back of strong post play from Kristen Johnson ’12 and Julia Paquette ’10, the Cats pulled ahead by as much as 10, leading.

Bracket Busted: Wildcats fall to No. 24 Butler

Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats continued their recent slide, falling to Butler 75-63 on Saturday before a national television audience and 64-46 to the Citadel last Wednesday. Both losses were at Belk Arena, extending Davidson’s home losing streak to three games, the team’s longest-such skid in 14 years. Stephen Curry ’10, the nation’s leading scorer, was never able to find an offensive groove. Hounded by Butler’s defensive pressure, he missed his first eight field goal attempts, failed to score until 6:27 remained in the first half and finished.6-23 from the floor, including 2-13 from beyond the arc. After the game, Curry downplayed the effects that his sprained left ankle might have had on his performance. Nevertheless, his 20 points led Davidson in scoring. Andrew Lovedale ’09 attempted to make up for Curry’s struggles by providing 15 points, including 6-6 shooting from the field to go with his seven rebounds. His rebounding total was equaled by Frank Ben-Eze ’12, who continued his recent pattern of strong play. Will Archambault ’10 poured in 11 points as Davidson’s other scoring option.

The game began in a ragged fashion, with neither team scoring for nearly four minutes early in the game. Ben-Eze finally broke this streak with a lay-up with 13:22 to play that evened the score at seven. Butler responded with a 10-0 run over the next four minutes to take a 17-7 lead. Matt Howard scored eight of the 10 points during this run. Davidson fought Butler’s pressure for the remainder of the half, drawing within five at halftime when Curry’s buzzer-beating floater from the baseline made the score 34-29. Curry then drilled a deep three to begin the second half that brought the sell-out crowd of 5,223 to its feet. The roaring crowd was soon silenced, however, as the Bulldogs went on an 18-7 run giving them a 52-39 edge with 14 minutes left, capped by Shelvin Mack’s banked-in triple to beat the shot clock. This stole the life from the crowd and seemed to epitomize the Wildcats’ inability to break through even when they had opportunities.

Davidson controlled the game, outscoring Southern 14-8 inside the paint in the second half. Two turnovers and a couple of missed free throws later, the Wildcat offense started showing signs of fatigue. The home team capitalized on its deeper bench, drawing the score to a nerve-racking 51-49. Over the course of the second half, Southern earned 13 points from 12 Davidson turnovers. At the tipping point, the game would again come down to the three hottest shooters on the court—Laune, Thompson, and Lax. With a layup from Laune and two crucial threes from Thompson and Lax, the ’Cats sent the game to free throws. The team hit six straight, leaving Statesboro with a 65-57 win. Lax tied her career high with 24 points, including four baskets from behind the arc and a perfect 4-4 at the charity stripe. Also boosting the scoring presence from up top, Thompson hit 15 points on 3-for-4 three-point shooting.

A trip up the coast on Sunday brought the ’Cats to College of Charleston’s new venue, the Carolina First Arena. In the teams’ first meeting at Belk Arena, C of C pulled out a heartbreaking 74-71 win that sent Davidson on a six-game losing skid.

Ben Lane ’12 DIVING ASHEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
The freshman was named CCSA Men’s Diver of the Year after winning both diving events at the CCSA Championships in Athens, Georgia over the weekend. In addition, Davidson diving coach Aaron Hintz was named CCSA Co-Men’s Diving Coach of the Year.

Peter Bruton ’10 ran to 2nd place in the mile at the Clemson Invitational with a time of 4:21.47. Bruton’s mile time was the fastest for a Davidson runner this season and puts him on Davidson’s all-time top 10 performance list for the event.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Bruton runs fastest mile of season at Clemson Invitational.