‘“SINTERACTIVE TOUR OF JERUSALEM” ALTERNATIVE EASTER BREAK! SEE PAGE 3

LIBRARY BASEMENT VOTED ‘“‘BEST PLACE TO POOP ON CAMPUS”’ SEE PAGE 10

HANSBROUGH: THE OAFISH CHAMPION SEE PAGE 5

OUTPOST TO OPEN GOLFCART DRIVE-THRU LANE SEE PAGE 4

YOU OF THE WEEK SEARCH: “CHIEF ROCKA”’

THE YOWL
Editors: Yount, Peter Bruton, Chevy Chase
Writers: Brett Chikowski, Amanda Ottaway

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

THE DANGERFIELD ISSUE

I don't get no respect

Uses Academic Motivation

Lake Campus—Dozens of students converged throughout the weekend to enjoy the warm weather and sunny days of spring in North
Carolina. The fun, however, was short-lived. An abrupt reversion to winter weather Monday night upset many students. Megan Anderson ’09
summed up what the majority of campus was feeling: “What the hell is this bullshit?”

After a weekend that saw temperatures rise into the low 80s, professors were concerned with the amount of time students
were spending outside, actually enjoying themselves. Citing his presidential authority, Tom Ross decided to take matters into his own hands
and “restore the sanctity and preeminence of the classroom at Davidson College.” Ross’ strategy involved a high-tech weather manipulation system
purchased on the black market from a corrupt North Korean general. The device, which cost an estimated $13 million, can
be used to manipulate weather patterns within a 30-mile radius. Ross started the contraption around 2:00 p.m. Monday, after spending
all morning collecting its unusual fuel of puppies, kittens, and orphans’ tears. The device began by sucking all the warmth
and happiness from its environment. Sometime around 4:15 p.m., the machine also began generating winds described by one sophomore as
“colder than a witch’s teat.” Hoses connected to Lake Norman chilled the water to an unbearable degree, rendering swimming impossible
to anything without a coat of blubber several inches thick.

Ross considers his first attempt at weather manipulation a success. “Well, if you look around campus, the library is full
again, and I know of at least two Spanish majors who haven’t left the Belk Lab in over a day.”
By making the natural world as miserable as possible, Ross encourages students to remain indoors and catch up on a
semester’s worth of Humanities reading. It has been rumored that Ross was responsible for melting the light sprinkling of snow
earlier this year with a hair dryer. As Ross sprinkled broken glass on the chairs outside the Union, he explained:
“If you are a student at my college, your nose should be in a book, not a flower.”

Davidson—Tom Ross recently announced he was unfortunately forced to close the new Madoff Wing in the E.H. Little Library. The
wing included an addition of 11,000 brand new books and original manuscripts, along with access to almost every American newspaper
and rare artifacts from antiquity. It also included state-of-the-art computers, televisions, headphones, and foot massagers. Bernie Madoff generously donated $5
million for the design and construction of the new wing after the success of the Davidson Wildcat Men’s basketball team
in 2008. Unfortunately, the 2008 investment and Ponzi scheme scandal revealed that he had actually laundered and stolen most of
the money. Tom Ross stated that Davidson, with its strict honor code, could not knowingly accept this money...Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

ORTA UBERTAS

President Ross Library’s Luxurious “Madoff Wing” Rejected this money but wishes Davidson could keep the library. This has not been
the first instance a college had to reject a donation from an alumni or donor. The College of William and
Mary was founded in 1693, and in 1769 a young Benedict Arnold founded a trendy café and bakery named “Benedict’s
Bistro.” Needless to say, William and Mary officials were forced to close shop after the American Revolution. John Wilkes Booth
donated generously to the University of Richmond Theater Department, but the University was also forced to give back his donations
after his famous 1865 performance. More recently, Kenneth Lay, former Enron CEO and chairman, donated extravagant amounts of money to
his alma mater, the University of Missouri, and helped fund a brand new economics center. The Enron meltdown was too
embarrassing for the University of Missouri to associate with, and they closed the center.

While unfortunately the Madoff wing would have been a valuable addition to Davidson College’s campus and would drastically improve the
library, students laud the administration for its honesty and commitment to ethics. Jan Stevens ’11 says, “I think it’s good
we hold our donors to the same standards as students and faculty. I can truly appreciate the honesty of the
orange statue brooding in the corner near Chambers.”

Next Year’s Semi-formal Event: The Rock Quarry

Due to recent occurrences during Davidson College’s 2009 spring formal season, one eating house has decided to turn off the
beaten path and host their next formal at the Charlotte Presbyterian Hospital (CPH) in Charlotte. CPH offers a wide variety
of dining and beverage choices. Speaking on the condition of anonymity, one member said, “We had an emergency Britney Spears
themed sisterhood and decided that for formals, at the end of the night when all is said and done, this
[the hospital] is where we wanna be.”

Eating houses and lesser fraternities are famous for hosting formals at the place called the Rock Quarry, a venue where
the Carolina Blonde flows like Powerade at Commons and cheap bands play mediocre music until everybody’s clothes are stained with
red wine. Let’s face it: the Quarry is getting old, people are literally getting sick of it. The CPH is
the new place to be.

“...Carolina Blonde flows like Powerade at Commons...”

CPH has a lot of features that this particular eating house is looking for. It has a bomb cafeteria for
the pre-party meal, a sick conference room that can easily be turned into an iPod-and-speakers dance party, and the security
is so concentrated on mental patients escaping, it’s easy to sneak flasks in. Additionally, there are on-call doctors and nurses
prepared to assist anyone who gets sick of the formal and, for lack of a better example, needs to get
their stomach pumped.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2009

It is now clear second-place finisher Michigan State was fed spoiled food at their catered pre-game meal. “This particular bacteria
is known to cause explosive, excruciatingly painful diarrhea,” a Chili’s spokesperson said. Goran Suton of Michigan State revealed, however, “I’m
not sure it was the food poisoning. Even locals feel pretty shitty after any period of time spent in Detroit.”

---
