THE DAVIDSONIAN

’Cats place 2nd at CCSA Championship

ZACH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson College placed second in both the men’s and women’s swimming and diving on Saturday at the finish of the CCSA Swimming and Diving Championships in Athens, Ga. In the men’s category, the College of Charleston won first place with 886 points overall while in the women’s, Florida Gulf Coast University took number one with 887 points. The Davidson men’s team scored 803 points, Gardner-Webb followed with 640 points, Howard finished fourth with 279 points and VMI and Florida A&M finished fifth and sixth respectively. On the women’s side, Davidson scored 653 points, followed by Georgia Southern with 472 points. Gardner-Webb finished fourth with 457 points while University of North Florida and College of Charleston finished fifth and sixth.

Davidson led the field in many of the tournament's honors. Ben Lane ’12 won men’s diver of the year when he took first in both male diving events. Coupled with Lane’s prowess, Davidson coach Aaron Hintz was named co-men’s diving coach of the year. Curtis Chaney ’12 also took home the freshman of the year award with an impressive weekend. Among his wins, he won the 100 free nearly breaking a school record with a time of 45.78. “I am proud of our team,” Chaney said, “I am proud to say that I am a member of the Davidson College swimming and diving team, and I wouldn’t have it any other way.”

In addition to these awards, other members of the Davidson teams had many other successes. Merrit Peele ’09 won the 1650 freestyle with a time that set a school record of 15:47.93. Scott Frantz ’09 won the 200 back with a school record time of 1:48.69. Lindsey Martin ’11 won the 100 free with a time of 49.67. At the end of the meet, Bryan Droll ’11 and Brad Carmen ’10 for the men, and Casey Van Tassel ’12, Emily Castle ’11 and Courtney Sanders ’09 for the women, finished first in the 400 free relay. “I will never forget the tears of joy when I witnessed our relay teams out touch the top seed, Florida Gulf Coast, in the event,” Courtney Sanders ’09 said. “Our successful finish illustrates the commitment and dedication of the team and our coaches,” Alanna Ream ’09 said. This was a big finish to a great season for the seniors. With all of the young talent on the team, spectators can only look forward to next season as Davidson hopes to reclaim their CCSA titles from a year ago.

Men’s Basketball vs. Georgia Southern
Sat. @ 2:00, Belk Arena
Senior Day

Davidson seniors Can Civi ’09, Max Paulhus Gosselin ’09, and Andrew Lovedale ’09 will play their final game at Belk Arena as the Wildcats conclude their home schedule. The trio will be honored before the game as part of Senior Day festivities. The ’Cats look to gain momentum before next week’s SoCon Tournament (March 6-9).

Outside the Den
Men’s Basketball
No. 10 Marquette at No. 6 Louisville
Sun. @ Noon, CBS

Marquette (23-4, 12-2) visits Louisville (21-5, 12-2) in a match-up of top 10 teams with first place in the Big East on the line. The Golden Eagles are led by the sweet shooting of Jerel McNeal (20.0 ppg) and Wesley Matthews (18.7 ppg) who both shoot over 40% from behind the arc. The Cardinals counter with Earl Clark who leads the team in both scoring (13.3 ppg) and rebounding (8.7 rpg).

SPORTS
Wildcat Pulse

The team controlled the first game, never trailing after a three-run second inning gave them the 4-3 lead. Despite the loss, the team was able to bounce back nicely and take the nightcap easily over Army 11-4. This time it was Davidson that took the early lead and never trailed in the win. Anny Bethe Seturay finished four for five with two runs batted in. Chris drove his brother, going two for four. Davidson secured their first career victory. The team continues their nine-game home-stand to open the season this weekend with games against Cincinnati, Penn, and Georgetown.

Wildcats gear up for SoCon pursuit

ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

On Saturday, the men’s track and field team traveled to Clemson, SC for the Clemson University Tiger Invitational to end the non-championship indoor track season. The Wildcats performed well at the weekend’s competition. In the 60 meter dash, Bryce Jones ’11 placed 22nd with his finishing time of 7.52 seconds. Right behind Jones was teammate Lee Dorsey ’12, securing himself 23rd place with his time of 7.56 seconds. JJ Alston ’12 finished 27th in the race.

C of C, from page 12

Up front, the Wildcats were much improved, but a stymied offense set the stage for another close one. Davidson led the charge in the first half. With Thompson scoring 16 in the first period, 4-5 from behind the arc, the ’Cats pulled ahead 34-26 to conclude the half. The start of the second half seemed to indicate more of the same, as the Wildcats held on to a solid single-digit lead. But again, in a striking repeat of Friday’s game, poor shooting led to a C of C run. This time, the home team evened the tally, 47 apiece after the ’Cats missed six straight shots.Thompson held silent in the second, Mandy Halbersleben ’09 finally broke the tie. It would be Davidson’s last lead of the game. Charleston evened up, then pulled ahead, and then after being fouled, Laune hit two free throws for yet another tie. With nearly no time remaining, the ‘Cats fouled C. of C under the basket, and one made free throw ended the hopes of a road-trip sweep. The second-half slump is a pattern the team knows it needs to break. “By giving them the smallest glimpse of hope, they are able to gain confidence and continue to play with us,” Laune said. “Our main problem has been taking care of the ball and making smart decisions in times like that. Each of us has to be sure to personally do the little things in order to maintain control of the game.” The squad heads to Furman this Saturday, Feb. 28, for its last game of the regular season. If the 'Cats pull off a win, they may receive a five seed, earning them a bye from the first round of play. Considering the pressure on the bench all season, that break would be a blessing. What will determine the final push will be starring individual efforts from the team’s leaders. Thompson, Lax, Laune, and Mer- cedes Robinson ’09 have all displayed 20-plus scoring performances this season and will be the ones to watch. During those tough second-half stretches, the SoCon’s most heavily worked bench must contribute on offense. After such a roller coaster season, in which the team has proven it can beat anyone in the SoCon, all signs point to a thrilling weekend in Chattanooga, Mar. 5-9. “It is hard for every team at the end of the year both physically and mentally, but being Davidson students, we know how to be efficient with what we have,” Laune said. “If we play the way we are capable of playing, this conference is ours.”

We'd Like You to Meet

Jim’s career-long track record of achieving successful results for his clients has earned him recognition throughout NC and among his peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named to the Best Lawyers In America publication consistently for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina. As a former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the State for his commitment to justice and his exceptional litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience, he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people who have been injured by the negligent or criminal conduct of others. Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A member of the Lions Club, Jim also serves on the boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

THE APPEALS + BANKRUPTCY + BUSINESS LAW + COLLECTIONS + ESTATE PLANNING

Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home

In the mile, Peter Bruton ’10 made a strong impression, finishing 2nd with a time of 4:21.24. Other top Wildcat performances included Alex Hoyt’s ’09 6th place (4:24.70) and Blake Evitt’s ’10 8th place finish. In the 400 meter dash, Dorsey was the only Wildcat to compete, finishing 23rd once again with a time of 54.38 seconds. In the 200 meter dash, Jones finished 16th, clocking a time of 23.89. Dorsey, in his third event of the day, finished 20th in the race with a time of 24.59 seconds. In the 3000 meter, Greg Marcil ’11 finished 7th for the team, setting the pace for the Wildcats with a time of 8:55.73. Ryan Hopkins ’12 finished 12th for the ’Cats and classmate Ian Tupper ’12 held off contenders for 21st place. On the field, Alston proved to be another asset for the team, finishing 7th in the long jump with a leap of 5.64 meters. The ’Cats will finish their indoor season as they return to Clemson next weekend for the SoCon Indoor Track Championships. Ashley Lax tied a career-high with 24 points in the ’Cats win at Ga. Southern.

Personal Injury Attorneys

Prosser D. “Sandy” Carnegie, has spent almost 30 years representing clients who have suffered substantial injuries due to another person’s negligence or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the law including, contract preparation and review, residential and commercial closings, land development and acquisition as well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia. In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community. Sandy, a Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as a commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF & AM and has coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the Davidson, Cornelius and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION + PERSONAL INJURY + REAL ESTATE + WILLS & TRUSTS

209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699 www.mcintoshlawfirm.com