THE DAVIDSONIAN

In honor of SFC Jared C. Monti

On September 17, President Barack Obama will present his first Medal of Honor. The award will be bestowed upon SFC
Jared C. Monti. As with the previous 5 Medal of Honor awardees, the President will deliver the award to Monti’s
family as his heroics resulted in his death. Monti will be the second recipient from the Afghan theater of the
War on Terror.

Jared C. Monti, after graduating from high school, enlisted in the Army in 1993. He rose to the rank of
staff sergeant (posthumously promoted to Sergeant First Class) in the 3rd Squadron, 71st Cavalry, 10th Mountain Division. The 10th Mountain
Division, who first made a name for itself in the mountains of Italy during World War II, prides itself on
the ability to deploy anywhere in the world by any means within ninety-six hours. In essence, no matter the conditions
or terrain, the 10th can be there fulfilling duties.

When SFC Monti’s family accepts the Medal of Honor on his behalf, they should know and be proud that their
kin went above and beyond the call of duty. For the 10th, SFC Monti performed the role of a fire
support specialist. A fire support specialist “brings the rain.” He tells the “boys with the big toys” when and where
to shoot. The “big toys” can be anything from artillery to a bomb. SFC Monti fulfilled this duty to the
very last.

On June 21, 2006, SFC Monti, with a sixteen-man patrol team, was charged with providing intelligence for the main squadron’s
insertion into the Gowardesh region of Afghanistan. In other words, the patrol was on point seeing just what was going
on. At dark, the patrol found itself under intense fire from at least fifty to sixty enemy fighters perched on
the heights above. The patrol was immediately in danger of being wiped out. SFC Monti simultaneously began returning fire, positioning
the patrol to return fire, and calling for close air support (CAS). The idea behind CAS is that the bombs,
missiles, or shells land almost as close to you as the enemy. Both the fire support specialist and the soldiers
shooting have to be spot on with their calculations and targeting, or the good guys get hit too.

While waiting for the CAS, SFC Monti noticed that PFC Brian Bradbury was mortally wounded thirty feet away on exposed
ground. SFC Monti, showing extreme disregard for his own life, attempted to reach PFC Bradbury. Twice he was forced back
by RPGs and bullets. On the third attempt, after coordinating cover fire, SFC Monti was struck and killed by an
RPG. However, he and his patrol had held out long enough because at that moment the CAS arrived. The CAS
proceeded to wipe out the enemy, thereby saving the remaining members of the patrol.

When SFC Jared C. Monti’s family accepts the Medal of Honor on his behalf, they should know and be proud
that their kin went above and beyond the call of duty. He exceeded as a soldier. He exceeded as a
man. He exceeded as an American.

SFC Monti’s ceremony comes on the heels of the anniversary of Islamo-fascism’s most blatant attempt to bring the United States
to her knees. The two are inextricably linked. While the White House called for a day of community service, I
would ask that you remember the men, women, and children who lost their lives on the day planes became missiles
and office buildings became steel and glass coffins. I would also ask that you acknowledge the men and women in
uniform, like SFC Jared C. Monti, who are still fighting and dying to avenge the deaths of those on 9/11/01.

Bobby DesPain ’11 is a biology major from St. Louis, MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.

Surviving through Davidson 101

Even the legendary Baloo (from Disney’s Jungle Book), who masterminded the essentials to life in the jungle through his timeless
song, “The Bare Necessities,” would be dazzled at the Germanesque efficiency of the Davidson 101 series. Just as Baloo’s inspirational
lyrics guided young, naive Mowgli through the basics of surviving the jungle, Davidson 101, year after year, has taken young,
naive freshmen and spat out dryads, comfortably prepared to prance around the once-frightening Davidson jungle.

Not only does Davidson 101 rival Baloo’s song, but it surpasses it by providing a comprehensive crash course for dummies,
which includes any information anyone would ever need to succeed at Davidson and beyond. And the best part is, it
is offered in a short, concise, unsuperfluous, straightforward, to-the-point, 10-hour value pack broken up into 6 painless sessions in addition
to the indispensable Alcohol EDU and swim test. Clearly, whoever crafted Davidson 101 must have scored a 100% on Alcohol
EDU and truly embodied the traits preached by the program because there is no sign of impaired judgment in this
flawless curriculum.

Alcohol EDU is the brilliant attempt to educate students with no social background about the life-threatening dangers of drinking anything
more than wine at Communion (or Bar Mitzvahs, Ramadan, Kwanzaa, etc.). The pragmatic videos coupled with the applicable tests and
real-life scenarios included in the course exemplify proper maneuvers, strategy, and etiquette needed to survive any party. To help students
cope with the terrifying reality of not living in a homogenous community...or village, Davidson 101 includes a course in ‘Diversity.’
For those who do not know what diversity is, it is not, as Urban Dictionary describes it, “a liberal euphemism
used to justify hiring people who lack the skill and experience to do a job or task, because they are
members of a group favored by liberals...white males, Christians, rural people, NASCAR fans, and people with strong moral standards are
excluded from consideration.” In fact, diversity, which Davidson 101 skillfully teaches, is being able to partner up for a hoedown
at SAE, step at BSC, and then chow with chopsticks at Bonsai all at the same time. Davidson 101’s Human
Sexuality has been preventing CHARLIE REITER, Mauricio Simms, Mark MILLARD maternity leave and STDs since descendants of Eve were first
allowed as students on campus. The course also teaches the invaluable survival instinct of being comfortable with one’s sexuality. According
to freshman Andrew DiLallo ’13, “Human Sexuality absolutely reaffirmed my once wavering sexual preference.” These types of comments are prevalent
among the freshmen leaving this symposium, proof that the course is a crucial aspect of Davidson survival. No one would
have the slightest idea how to use the library without the Library Information session of Davidson 101. To the untrained
eye, the bookshelves resemble a maze where, rather than worry about their GPA, students fear the Minotaur. However, the librarians
who run the session employ a nifty scavenger hunt, a great tactic to inspire students to use swift navigational skills
in an attempt to quench their thirst for library wisdom. Without this useful course, students would be unable to conduct
research, locate/use a water fountain, identify a printer, or determine the purpose of a book. Perhaps the course with the
potential to save the most Davidson lives, Realizing Your Risk, is a combat-oriented course that would put even the Navy
SEALS to shame. The program prepares students in self-defense against predators (and not the animalistic kind). The course beautifully teaches
Davidson freshmen about risks, and subsequently how to realize them. Based on this course, it is not uncommon to see
co-eds whoop the crap out of sexual deviants making unwanted advances. If this course was not available and required, students
would constantly be at risk of being victimized, and would not realize it. It is a fact that Davidson 101
is the most important thing at Davidson. Fulfilling other core requirements is meaningless in the shadow of the towering and
vital Davidson 101 curriculum. We urge any and all students who either purposely or accidentally slipped through the cracks to
take these courses in order to survive their four years at Davidson. You are in grave danger. A perfect example
is Steve Rossiter ’10, who refused to graduate in four years because he so badly wanted to pass the swim
test without flotation devices. Students like him should be commemorated for understanding the importance of the Davidson 101 series. We
salute you. Charlie Reiter ’10 is a Political Science major from Westport, CT. Mauricio Simms ’11 is a philosophy major
from Bowie, MD. Mark “The Shark” Millard ’12 is undeclared. He is from Oak Hill, NC. They can be contacted
at chreiter@davidson.edu, masimms@davidson.edu, and mamillard@davidson.edu, respectively.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009

“Aold. iy So pect needed 700. ee oe, dollars for the. first Troubled _mnuch more stable situation, Continuing with the
Teades ahi (of the new. Obama. administration, the. government has. played a substantial role in walking the American econom “back‘from
the brink of total collapse’ In fact, in his speec last: Wednesday | “night, Obama. made’ it” clear that the”
_American ¢ economy ;was back: on. the-road to prosperi However, what we need to ask now is; what did we
lean? Throughout US history, major events have precipitated “major changes in global policy/This holds tue forAmerican «Independence, the. Civil War,
the Great Depression, World. Wars I and II, Vietnam, the Civil Rights Movement and September Eleventh. For example, after 1776,
the European, nations _ questioned. the ethical roots’ of imperialism; after the Civil war, President Johnson. helped. restructure, America during
the first: reconstruction. Subsequently after. World War git President Truman, guided America-through | second reconstruction; after. Vietnam, America became Perhaps:
the iron-clad laws of economi dictate that: _the economy: will run in.a cyclical way. through linear: ‘peaks and. troughs, However,
I have not given up hope that. vig lawmakers can work.to find a way ‘to at least stave off’ uch
a severe economic decline and put in place rules for " government procedure i in bailing out the American people,
"Perhaps itis too complex for Congress to do on their own, and they should bring together a team of the
best legislators, business leaders and academic thinkers. The writers of any: ew legislation on the economy should be the best
minds. their respective fields. «2% « a Maybe this. most recent recession was ; the result of. confluence ‘of events
relating to the price of oil. the: ur financial institutions and negligence by the financial sien wae Howevery while the
« severity” of % this: sésion, which | makes legislating the i issue 10 € ensure that ABLES ge ill
Never hap articular! ny aot now. pes polities for the President to begin to move on issues in ther fields
The President should bring in the best people: rom all arenas: the most g enportant legislators, members of
