Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, March 25, 2009 11

Men’s Tennis falls to Univ. of Illinois at Chicago 4-3

ZACHARY ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

The Davidson men’s tennis team faced off against Furman in Greenville, SC on Saturday.

Unfortunately, Davidson dropped the match and fell to 5-8 on the season and 1-2 in conference play. Furman remains undefeated
at 2-0 in conference play with an overall record of 11-7.

Furman got off to an incredible start and did not look back. The Paladins took all three doubles matches to
capture the doubles point and proceeded to stomp Davidson, with six singles wins. Furman added one win to their now
four-game win streak and registered their third shutout of the season. Eric Noble ’10, Scott Myers ’09, and Calum Gee
’12 saw their singles’ winning streaks come to an end.

Davidson played the University of Illinois at Chicago on Monday, March 23. The ’Cats fell 4-3 even after Noble, Myers,
and Walker Lyons ’11 captured the top three singles matches.

Although the team made a valiant effort, they came up just short and saw their record fall to 5-9 on
the season. Their next match is against UNC Greensboro on Saturday, March 28 at 1 p.m.

Eric Noble ’10 sets up for a forehand in the team’s 7-0 loss to Furman on Saturday. Noble and Scott
Myers ’09 saw the close of two-game win streaks.

Women’s Tennis gets first SoCon win, sweeps Western Carolina

ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

The Davidson College women’s tennis team traveled to Cullowhee, North Carolina on Saturday to take on SoCon competitor, the Western
Carolina Catamounts. The ’Cats brought home a win, bringing their season record to 5-8 and 1-2 in the SoCon.

For the singles’ competitions, all six Davidson contenders won; Michele Fanney ’09 won 6-4, 6-1, Virginia Berry ’10 won 6-1,
6-4, Alison Rauh ’11 won 6-0, 6-1, Ali Gores ’10 won 6-0, 6-3, Molly McDevitt ’12 won 6-3, 6-3, and
Sam Galaina ’11 won 6-0, 6-0.

The ’Cats also played strongly in the doubles division. Pair Romina Clemente ’09 and Fanney triumphed over their Catamount contenders,
closing the match 8-3. Duo Gores and McDevitt also proved fierce, winning their doubles 8-3.

The team’s next match is scheduled for Friday, March 27 at 2 p.m. as the Wildcats take on Cal St.
at home.

Jim’s career-long track record of achieving successful results for his clients has earned him recognition throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named to the Best Lawyers in America publication consistently for the
past 23 years and was recently named as one of the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina.
As a former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the State
for his commitment to justice and his exceptional litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience, he has dedicated his
legal practice to helping people who have been injured by the negligent or criminal conduct of others.

Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A member of the
Lions Club, Jim also serves on the boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Conservancy, and the Davidson Community
Players and was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

APPEALS • BANKRUPTCY • BUSINESS LAW • COLLECTIONS • ESTATE PLANNING

McIntosh Law Firm

Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699 www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

Prosser D. “Sandy” Carnegie has spent almost 30 years representing clients who have suffered substantial injuries due to another person’s
negligence or criminal conduct, always with the client’s best interest above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas
of the law including contract preparation and review, residential and commercial closings, land development and acquisition as well as zoning.
Sandy is licensed to practice before all state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia.

In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community. Sandy,
a Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children,
Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as a commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town
of Davidson committees, he is a member of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of Williams Masonic Lodge #176,
A.B. & A.M. and has coached youth football, basketball, and baseball in the Davidson, Cornelius, and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION • PERSONAL INJURY • REAL ESTATE • WILLS & TRUSTS
