DAVIDSON COLLEGE TOWN WILL GET FIRST PUBLIC ART INSTALLATION
Andy Dunnill’s “A Bouquet for Davidson” will be displayed outside the post office. see NEWS, page 2

CHRIS JOHANSON’S “CONTINUALITY” OPENS IN VAC
Oregon-based artist constructed sculptures from recycled materials. see ARTS, page 5

PREVIEW OF St. Mary’s (CA)
The ’Cats will travel to Moraga, Calif. to take on Patty Mills and the St. Mary’s Gaels in the second
round of the NIT. Game time and broadcast not yet determined. see SPORTS, page 11

John Evans
Staff Writer

Last week, Associate Professor of Political Science Russell Crandall accepted a position as principal director for the Western Hemisphere at
the Department of Defense (DoD). Professor Crandall’s work at the DoD begins in late April. His job will focus on
three critical areas: to oversee the U.S.’s military presence in the Western Hemisphere; to cultivate strong relationships with our counterparts
in the hemisphere; and to represent the DoD in the interagency process, in which the State Department, National Security Council
(NSC) and DoD meet to determine policy formulation.

No stranger to governmental policymaking, Crandall worked for the NSC in 2004 and 2005. There he learned a humble take
on policy development. “Policy is the realm of the possible,” he said. “It leads to a more pragmatic and empathetic
approach. But it’s not easy.”

Crandall says his experience with policymaking at the NSC informed his outlook on teaching as a Davidson College professor. “It’s
one thing to identify a solution,” Crandall said. “But it’s another thing to get it implemented. Here, the consequences of
what I say and think are pretty low. But in policy, they can be tremendous. When you’re right you’re right,
when you’re wrong you’re wrong.”

When asked how he felt about returning to the arena of policymaking, Crandall admitted to feelings of excitement, honor and
apprehension. “It’s a tremendous honor to serve my country, and it’s also very exciting. But at the same time, given
the portfolio and given the task at hand, it’s very daunting,” Crandall said. “Unlike academia, we have real consequences there.
Just because I have the job doesn’t mean I’m going to get it right.”

See DoD, page 3

UNC-Chapel Hill Professor Robert Allen '72 delivered a lecture entitled “Going to the Show: Reimagining the History of the Experience
of Cinema” March 10 in the 900 Room.

www.thedavidsonian.com
VOLUME 100, NUMBER 19

Professor of political science Russell Crandall will begin at DoD in late April. photo by Bill Giduz

Consultants to assess energy practices
Will advise College on inefficiencies and prospects for solar installations

Brian Moran
Editor-in-Chief

Davidson has hired two independent consultants to conduct evaluations of the College’s energy use and assess opportunities for solar energy
installations. Advanced Energy Corporation (AEC), a Raleigh-based non-profit corporation that conducts clean energy research, began a campus-wide audit of energy
consumption in February and will report corrigible inefficiencies by the end of the semester. Steven Strong of Solar Design Associates
(SDA), a renewable energy design firm based in Harvard, Mass., will appraise prospects for solar thermal and photovoltaic (PV) panels
later this spring. Both projects are funded by commitments from The Duke Endowment and take place in the context of
the school’s “Year of Sustainability.”

“Generally, energy efficiency is the most cost-effective way to reduce your electricity use,” Sustainability Fellow Kealy Devoy ’08 said. Devoy
hopes the audit will find inefficiencies that the school can easily rectify. “There may be inefficiencies that we’ve overlooked and
could address.as early as this summer,” she said. “There may also be some long-term things that are more capital intensive
and we’ll have to figure out how to fund those.”

Solar Design Associates has not yet begun its analysis of potential solar options on Davidson’s campus. When founder Steven Strong
begins the evaluation, he will assess possibilities for two types of technologies: solar thermal water heating and solar photovoltaic, or
the capture of electricity from solar energy.

“Solar thermal currently has more energy potential and experience than solar photovoltaic does,” David Holthouser, director of engineering and facilities
management, said in an email. “Our strategy is to use our rooftops for solar thermal because the thermal use will
sit directly underneath.”

Davidson would likely face somewhat of a challenge in retrofitting buildings with solar-capture devices, as the majority of campus structures
have roofs that face east-west, and the greatest amount of solar energy is captured from southern-facing exposure. The solar thermal
option is particularly attractive because of new technology known as “Thin-film” which can function with only indirect solar exposure. Furthermore,
Thin-film comes in the form of roof tiles and many of Davidson’s buildings use tiled roofs.

Through satisfying water-heating demands, a solar thermal installation would help reduce Davidson’s consumption of natural gas. While natural gas has
a relatively low emission rate, it is one of the more expensive forms of energy. “We’re looking at solar thermal
not only because it’s more efficient, but it’s more cost-effective and the payoff time is much shorter,” Holthouser said.

Holthouser is hopeful that Davidson could undertake a cost-ef-

See Energy, page 4

Kelly Beccs
Staff Writer

Last Friday, Laura Bergner ’09 was awarded the Watson Fellowship for the 2009-2010 fellowship year. “It still feels surreal, but
I’m really excited,” Bergner said of her reaction to winning this prestigious fellowship which offers up to 50 graduating college
seniors a one-year grant of $28,000 for independent study and travel outside of the United States. This year only forty
fellows were chosen, so the Thomas J. Watson Foundation’s selection process was even more competitive.

The foundation’s mission is “to offer college graduates of unusual promise a year of independent, purposeful exploration and travel outside
of the United States in order to enhance their capacity for resourcefulness, imagination, openness, and leadership and to foster their
humane and effective participation in the world community.”

Dr. Malcolm Campbell, associate professor of Biology and director of Davidson’s James G. Martin Genomics Program, was a Watson Fellow
in 1984 and now helps Davidson to select its nominees. Campbell said, “My Watson year was the 6th most influential
event in my life: my birth, my parents’ divorce, my marriage, daughter number 1, daughter number 2, Watson year. I
am certain Laura will continue to reap the benefits of her wanderjahr for decades.”

No Davidson students were awarded the fellowship last year, but 2007-2008 fellows were Omer Hashmi, who studied Muslim immigrant communities,
and Amy Reid, who studied multi-racial identity. Bergner’s fellowship will depart from her Davidsonian predecessors’ focus on human relationships to
investigate some particularly controversial creatures—bats. Her proposal is entitled “Chasing Bats and Their Shadows,” and she plans to travel to
Costa Rica, China, Thailand, the Philippines, Madagascar, and Fiji to study these “ecologically important and misunderstood animals.”

A Biology major, Bergner has conducted research in both laboratory and field settings at David-

See Watson, page 4
