ast, a long survey of peer institutions revealed that the mean GPA for the Davidson Class of 2007 was 0.2
below the group average. Since then, SGA has explored options for minimizing the potential that "grade deflation" is hurting Davidson
students as they apply to jobs and grad schools. Ultimately, SGA voted to recommend that the registrar’s office offer students
the option of attaching to their transcript a cover letter that details Davidson’s academic profile and provides GPA figures for
each decile of the student body. SGA presented this idea to the faculty-based Educational Policy Committee, and both bodies continue
to explore the option. While both students and faculty members have expressed misgivings about the utility and effect of such
letters, I feel that the registrar should provide this option.

The chief argument against the cover letters is that they might damage the prospects of students with lower GPAs that
are applying to the same programs. This seems quite unlikely. In the case that two Davidson students are applying to
the same school, the one with the higher GPA would already have a leg up on the other student. Informing
admissions officers about Davidson’s competitive grading scale would only advantage the higher-GPA student in relation to non-Davidson applicants. For the
other student, his or her low average would already be a hindrance. The additional information would not harm their prospects.
If anything, schools would view Davidson’s academic rigor as a mitigating factor for an otherwise unfavorable GPA. Others argue that
Davidson already has a widespread reputation for frugal grade-giving and that this data may disprove even more drastic impressions about
Davidson’s academic rigor. Such individuals may overestimate the reach of Davidson’s reputation. While schools in North Carolina may perceive Davidson
in this way, it is doubtful that anyone outside the South is familiar enough with our school to have such
concrete opinions of it.

It should be noted that the registrar’s office already fulfills student requests to send quantitative GPA data. This information, however,
is not enclosed with transcripts and lacks the qualitative description a cover letter would offer.

The Davidsonian

ALENIDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief
Katherine Miller & Brian Moran

Managing Editor
Kate Kelly

News Editors
Katherine Johnson & Caroline Wood

Perspectives Editors
Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris

Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Errington & Jennifer Gambrell

Yow! Editors
Alex Greening & Josh Tobin

Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis

Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Kelsey Lilley

Business & Circulation Managers
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright

Online Editor
Greg Newman

Content Manager
Kelly Beggs

Section Copy Editors
Stephanie Jones & Nami Patel

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room
411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the
views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Advertising rates are
available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Lisa V. LANDOE
Guest Columnist

In the middle of the Pacific Ocean floats a coagulation of garbage twice the size of Texas. The Eastern Garbage
Patch is a toxic aquatic environment that is characterized by a whirlpool current and consequently accumulating drifting debris. Such a
nauseating buildup of waste attests to the fact that there is no such thing as throwing something away. In the
United States alone, we use 164 million plastic bottles, 273 million aluminum cans, and 350 million paper cups per day.
Considering that roughly seven percent of all plastic in the United States is recycled, where on earth does the other
93 percent end up? “Out of sight” is a sufficient answer for many prolific consumers. However, quite literally, the tides
are changing, and “out of sight” can no longer forgive “out of mind.”

Oceans occupy 70 percent of the Earth’s surface and support over 90 percent of all life on Earth, which further
supports us. Worldwide, nearly one billion people rely on fish as a primary source of their daily food protein. When
we pollute the water, we pollute the fish. We all contribute to this pollution, and here is how: Around 60
billion tons of plastic are produced each year, about 10 percent of which ends up in the sea. About 80
percent of the trash that ends up in the sea has migrated from our shores. Whether by wind, sewage, pipes,
spills, or contaminated stormwater drains, our waste ultimately settles in the ocean. In all, scientists have identified 267 types of
marine species known to have been injured or killed by ocean debris. A study conducted in 1999 by Charles Moore,
the founder of the Algalita Marine Research Foundation, reported finding six times more plastic fragments by weight in the central
Pacific than associated zooplankton. What does this mean? Plankton make up the base of the marine food chain, and since
90 percent of all life exists in the ocean, they play an indispensable role in the survival of all organisms
on Earth. Zooplankton are nonselective feeders, ingesting anything smaller than themselves. Ideally, they would be eating nutritious phytoplankton and algae.
But given that there’s six times more plastic floating around, they opt for the most abundant selection. It is frightening
to imagine the sequence of events that follow, aptly referred to as bioaccumulation.pipes, spills, or contaminated storm water drains, our
waste ultimately settles in the ocean. Bioaccumulation occurs when an organism absorbs a toxic substance at a rate greater than
that at which the substance is lost. As such, ocean contaminants involving heavy metals or fat-soluble chemicals like mercury, dioxins,
or PCBs tend to build up in the bodies of marine organisms. The toxins climb the food chain until they
reach the final predators: humans. In all, scientists have identified 267 types of marine species known to have been injured
or killed by ocean debris. Otherwise stated, the ocean is dying, along with the myriad of species it sustains. Equally
disconcerting is the pivotal function played by phytoplankton in eliminating carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. In fact, phytoplankton account for
a staggering half of all photosynthesis conducted on the planet. Therefore, not only do we emit excess carbon dioxide into
the atmosphere in the coal-burning production of future waste, but also we disrupt the natural filtration methods of CO2 elimination.
In excess, carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases (water vapor, methane, nitrogen, and ground-level ozone) trap too much heat in
the Earth’s atmosphere, generating a number of climate side-effects: extreme weather, flooding, warmer oceans, a rise in sea levels, and
coastal erosion. Particular attention should be drawn to the latter two effects, considering 100 million people live within a mere
three feet of sea level. In fact, 50 percent of the US population is situated within 50 miles of the
coast; a 30 percent increase in the last quarter-century. Needless to say, our oceans deserve as much attention as we
give our borders, for an ontological frontier is threatened.

Lisa Landoe ’10 is a Spanish major from Lake Forest, Ill. Contact her at lilandoe@davidson.edu.

Al-Arabiya interview too deferential

Last week, President Obama gave his first presidential interview. To exemplify his changing policies, he chose the Arab television station
Al-Arabiya. The problem with the interview arises not so much with the venue, but with the entire Obama message. President
Obama needs to realize that no matter how many people cheered for him in Berlin or Nairobi, he is only
president of the United States. As such, he should only be concerned with the interests of the United States. That
is all the Constitution allows for and that is more than enough to keep him busy for the next four
years.

One of the more ludicrous aspects of Obama’s interview was his professed desire to return the United States to the
same respect and partnership it had with the Islamic world 20-30 years ago. I have no idea what Obama is
talking about. Twenty to 30 years ago the current Iranian president was storming our embassy and holding 52 Americans hostage
for 444 days. Twenty to 30 years ago Islamo-fascists were blowing up our embassy and Marine barracks in Lebanon. Now,
what in any of that evidences respect and partnership?

The problem with Obama's conciliatory rhetoric is it is one-sided. Obama, like most of the West’s leadership, seems to think
that governments dominated by Islamic extremism are equally right as the United States. They continue to think that there are
two sides to every issue. That simply is not true. There are certain unalienable rights that followers of radical Islam
routinely violate. The disparity is most clear in the treatment of women. The prevalence of slave trafficking, prepubescent marriages, genital
mutilation, honor killings, and wife beatings in certain parts of the world is overwhelming and tragic. The worst treatment of
women comes in the Muslim reactions to rape. Sharia law dictates that in order to prove rape four male witnesses
must exist. The woman’s testimony is irrelevant. If a rape charge fails to meet this standard (as it often does),
the woman can be punished. It is estimated that over 75 percent of Pakistan’s female prisoners are incarcerated because they
were raped.

The problem with Obama’s conciliatory rhetoric is it is one-sided. The West is working assuring Muslims that their religion is
peaceful, but what are the Islamic nations doing to give that message? Countries like Saudi Arabia and Egypt are notably
silent. What has Saudi Arabia done to ensure that no more of their citizens fly planes into buildings? There are
over one billion Muslims in the world, and we are constantly reassured (by our own leaders, no less) that it
is only the fringe elements that are engaged in or support terrorism. However, if that is the case, why does
the rest of the Muslim world react only with silence? Why are so many supposedly peaceful not doing more to
stop their brethren from blowing up cafes, buses, and buildings, from rioting over cartoons, movies, and teddy bears? Could it
be that a good many Muslims are not opposed to terrorism?

The year after Islamo-fascists bombed the London Underground, The Times conducted a poll of British Muslims and found that 7
percent thought that suicide attacks on civilians are justifiable under certain circumstances. There are over a million Muslims in London,
meaning there are at least 70,000 potential suicide bombers. What do you think the numbers would be in a non-Western
country like the UAE or Indonesia? However, those millions still pale in comparison to the rest of the Muslim community
who apparently want peace. The world needs to wake up and realize that these Muslims need to do more to
stop terrorism. Likewise, our own president needs to stop demeaning the United States and demand that Muslims do their part.

Bobby DesPain ’11 is undeclared. He is from St. Louis, Mo. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.
