The DAVIDSONIAN

DesPain’s depiction of Gaza conflict decidedly one-sided

HANAN ABDUL HADI
Guest Columnist

On Jan. 15, Sir Gerald Kaufman, a British Labor Member of Parliament, recalled a powerful quote by former Israeli Foreign Minister Abba Eban who said, “You make peace by talking to your enemies.” Abba Eban’s perspective is one that is still desperately needed in the Middle East today. The region has been in a state of persistent turmoil for well over 60 years, a state of turmoil that is only worsening with no peaceable end in sight.

While both Palestinians and Israelis shoulder huge amounts of responsibility for the current state of turmoil, the recent attacks on Gaza signaled a fatal breakdown in the path to peace. Israel’s harsh and disproportionate response to Hamas’ meager rocket attacks was not only unjust, but also counter to any conception of human rights.

The situation in Gaza had long been degenerating. After Israel pulled out from Gaza in 2005, a democratic election resulted in a Hamas-led government. Regardless of the international community’s opinion of Hamas, the Palestinian people voted into office those leaders that they felt would best serve their interests. After years of living under a corrupt and ineffectual Fatah government, people were in need of a government that would provide them with the social services that Fatah had failed to secure and the promise of a government that would not pusillanimously pander to Israel. The frustration that had been mounting for decades had finally manifested.

Understandably, the international community did not perceive Hamas in the same way; in a show of blatant hypocrisy, the world moved to isolate the party that had won by means of the very system of democracy it has championed for so long. The double standards that the world continues to uphold are baffling. In response to increasing isolation, Hamas resorted to short-range rocket attacks into Israel. Setting aside the question of whether such attacks were excusable given the situation in the Gaza Strip at the time, Israel’s response was a harsh blockade which prevented any food, fuel or medical supplies from reaching the Strip, which is today the most densely populated part of the world, with over 1.5 million people living in an area no larger than 360 sq km (224 sq mi). This blockade, which had been ongoing for months before Israel’s war on Gaza, left people impoverished, starving and living in complete darkness. The severity and difficulty of the lives Gazans led during the months of blockade is unimaginable to a point that one can hardly believe that in the last few weeks Gazans had been boiling grass and baking livestock feed to sustain themselves. And yet, the world was silent while Israel created the world’s largest prison camp.

Contrary to the claims made in last week’s article, “World’s Response to Israel Disproportionate,” Israel does not “take great care to harm civilians” and did not “allow ambulances or supply trucks to operate unhindered.” Medical equipment and drugs were constantly in short supply. Moreover, contrary to the claims Mr. DesPain made last week, Hamas did not place rocket-launching points near civilian buildings. One must realize exactly how densely populated the Gaza Strip is and thus any rocket-launching site is in a civilian area. Thus Israel was de facto targeting civilians and its leaflet drops and warnings served no purpose other than to absolve themselves of responsibility. After all, where could Gazans escape to if its borders were closed and surrounded?

Last week, that same article made the following argument, “Imagine that every day the citizens of San Antonio were greeted with rocket strikes from Mexico. How long do you think the United States would wait before striking back?” While that question is valid, I ask this one: imagine that an enemy blockaded the United States and its citizens had resorted to eating grass and livestock feed. How long would it be before the United States launched whatever improvised rockets it could into enemy territory? Yes, the argument that Hamas should have sought other, more diplomatic, means to end the blockade is legitimate. However, having been increasingly isolated for years, if Hamas had not done something radical that demanded attention, no one would have heard the cries of the people of Gaza. In fact, the conditions in Gaza recall the infamous question, if a tree falls in a forest and no one is around to hear it, does it make a sound? The simple reality is that the cries of Gaza went unheard because no one was there to truly listen.

For years, however, the children of Palestine have continued to suffer. A recent psychological study by Dr. Iyad Sarraj revealed that, having witnessed family members beaten and killed and their homes bulldozed to the ground, many Palestinian children no longer believed that life was worth living. They had simply lost the will to live. It is therefore clear that Israel is in fact breeding the very anger and frustration it claims to be neutralizing. Israel is reaping the...seeds it sowed. It seems Abba Eban’s words have long been forgotten. Setting aside the situation in Gaza before the attacks, Israel’s actions were radically disproportionate and that is likely what caused so much international outrage. In twenty-three days, 1300 Palestinians were killed. I will not warrant the number of Palestinian lives lost with the number on the Israeli side because not only are the numbers severely skewed but also because I find such comparisons insulting, turning human lives into a simple arithmetical problem. Essentially, even one life lost is one too many. Although we are all created equal (or so we claim to believe) we should not have to live by that belief in death. As Gandhi once said, “An eye for an eye and the whole world would be blind.” The double standards that the world continues to uphold are baffling. For years Palestinian children have thrown stones at Israeli tanks rolling through their neighborhoods blasting buildings to the ground. And yet, the world for years deemed those children terrorists. Of course, Palestinians have used more extreme tactics than stone throwing, however, none of these tactics involved U.S.-made weapons, fighter jets, tanks or white phosphorus. My belief was always that we are all human beings in need of a home and that nothing but the divisive labels we create separate us. The irony is that for years while the world was in uproar over improvised Palestinian weapons, it was deafeningly silent toward Israel. The only victory for Gazans in the aftermath of the war is that the world, for the first time in decades, has broken its silence. It is a small victory but one that Palestinians turn to for comfort. The world, today, has heard their screams. As a Palestinian myself, I naturally have my own inherent biases. For years, however, I have prided myself as having come from a family of educated liberals. I grew up accepting Israel as a state for the sake of peace. It is clear that a two-state solution is the only path to peace. And, although I come from a family of refugees, I have always searched within myself for some compassion, sympathy and understanding with regards to Israel. My belief was always that we are all human beings in need of a home and that nothing but the divisive labels we create separate us. However, while I was in the Middle East in the midst of the war on Gaza, I noticed a sad and disappointing change. While Israel argued that its attacks were meant to neutralize Hamas and end Arab support for it, its air strikes and ground offensive prompted an extremely contrary response. Even the most liberal and the most moderate Arabs and Palestinians, those who had for years supported a two-state solution, grew increasingly enraged and frustrated. Israel, which had never really enjoyed much favor in the region, sunk to an all-time low in the eyes of Arabs. As a result, peace today is more elusive than ever. Hanan Abdul Hadi finished her Davidson coursework this past December. She now lives in Boston, Mass. Contact her at haabdulhadi@davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2009

In his article titled “World’s Response to Israel: Disproportionate,” Bobby DesPain concluded by stating that if the problems of the Middle East are to be solved, then Hamas must be confronted. In fact, it seems his message is that Hamas is the source of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and that their removal will bring stability and peace. The facts of the situation, however, clearly indicate this view is incorrect. Even if Hamas were removed, the strife would persist. The violence does not stem from Hamas or any one group. The true source of conflict is revealed by the length of time this war has lasted. Hamas is a comparatively new power, chiefly arisen in the last couple of decades, while the struggle as a whole has raged since the original Partition in 1947, and arguably even before that. Even the PLO or Fatah, the oldest of Palestinian liberation groups, doesn’t date back to the beginning of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. There is no one group responsible for this strife. Israel of 1947 was greeted with open arms by the Jewish population, yet rejected universally by the Palestinians, and understandably so. It allotted over half of the country militarily, much of what we now define as its current territory, to the Jewish population. The Palestinians, in possession of the remaining land, received little international support and would use violence as a means of resistance. This is not the true source of the ongoing conflict. The responsibility falls upon Israel. If Israel truly seeks peace, it must engage in fair negotiations that enable both Israelis and Palestinians to coexist. Contact him at despain@davidson.edu.