THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

Wildcat Pulse

Wildcat wrestlers fall at Duke, but rebound with strong performance at Davidson Open

PETER COSTA
Staff Writer

Davidson wrestling hosted Duke University on Wednesday, December 2, for their annual clash. The Wildcats got off to a nice start as Ben Altman ’10 pinned Duke’s Nick Adamo in 3:40. This matchup in the 125-pound weight class gave the Wildcats the start they desired. In the 133-pound weight class, Nico Cortese defeated Alex Radsky ’11 7-5. In the 141-pound weight class, Vitaly Radsky ’11 added to the Wildcats’ early lead with a 10-2 win over Mike Bell. After Radsky’s win, the Wildcats led 10-3, and it looked like they would beat Duke for the second consecutive meeting.

Blue Devil wins at 149 and 157 pounds erased the Wildcat lead. Duke led by a slim 14-13 margin after Joe McGinley ’11 defeated Spencer Jasper in the 165-pound match. Unfortunately, that is as close as the Wildcats would get as Duke swept the 174, 184, 197, and 285-pound weight matches. The final score was Duke 36, Davidson 13.

The Wildcats hoped to bounce back when they hosted several teams in the Davidson Open. Each member of the Wildcats participated in their own weight class bracket. Scott Ray ’13 wrestled in the 133-pound weight division. After an early loss, Ray bounced back, advancing to the third-place match, where he lost to Virginia Tech’s Jared Jones. Alex Radsky ’11 also wrestled in the 133-pound weight division. He was brilliant, advancing all the way to the final where he defeated Chris Spencer 3-1.

“It was a great day for Alex, and this win was something he really needed for his confidence coming off of an injury,” head coach Bob Patnesky said. “This should kick-start him as we move ahead in the season.”

Two Wildcats participated in the 125-pound division. Altman went all the way to the semi-finals before bowing out to Gardner Webb’s Michael Slaughter. Altman defeated Chris Jones to take third place. Matt Zarth ’13 also competed in the 125-pound weight division. Like Altman, Zarth advanced to the semi-finals before falling to CJ Hamilton. In the 141-pound weight division, Vitaly Radsky advanced to the quarterfinals before bowing out to Spartanburg Methodist’s Chris Teague. In the 157-pound weight class, Brent Mowry ’13 and Joe McGinley ’11 lost in the quarterfinals. Jorge Estrada ’12 advanced to the semi-finals before losing to Newbury’s TJ Cayruth. In the 184-pound division, Ike Crews ’13 lost in the semi-finals to Jonathan Velasquez from Gardner Webb. In the 285-pound division, Charlie Wolff ’11, like Radsky, advanced all the way to the finals. He wrestled exceptionally well before falling to Gardner Webb’s Dustin Porter.

The Wildcats return to action on December 18 when they host Southern Conference rival Chattanooga at Belk Arena.

Cork. It actually does grow on trees. To keep a natural balance between manufacturing practices and the environment, Birkenstock supports using renewable resources like cork. Balance and support? Just like a pair of our clogs.

Now in stock at WHIT MILLER’S Shoe Store & Repair
122 North Main Street
Mooresville, NC 28115
704-664-4109
fax: 704-660-6461
Receive $20 off purchase price with this ad
Expires 2/1/10

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009

Women’s Basketball vs. Wofford
December 13, 2 p.m.
Belk Arena

The Wildcats look to continue their hot start in conference play when they take on the Terriers in another SoCon match-up. Alex Thompson ‘10 leads Davidson with 12.9 points per game while Wofford counters with Maddie Helms who averages 11.6 points per contest.

Outside the Den

College Football
Army (5-6) vs. Navy (8-4)
Philadelphia, P.A.
Saturday 2:30 p.m.Army and Navy conclude the college football regular season with their 110th all-time meeting. The Midshipmen have won seven in a row in the series, but the Black Knights hope to snap that streak as a victory would send them to a bowl game for the first time since 1996.

’Cats, from page 12

Mountaineer offense late in the game. But too late perhaps. The post trio of Julia Paquette ’10, Kristen Johnson ’12, and Aleksandravicius shaved the lead to seven—within range. But the gap held constant as the game went to free-throws, with the ’Cats falling 68-59.

Heading into the long winter break stretch, the team narrows its focus to the next game, rather than the whole sweep of matchups. “I only look to the next game — the next game is a big one,” Watts said. “And when you’ve got a team as young as ours is, you better believe the next one.”

In those close second-half matchups, the team condenses its attention to even smaller time periods. Watts said, “every time in the huddle we’re talking about our four-minute game,” the spaces of time between the media timeouts. When those precious moments divide the W and L columns, the team doesn’t have to look long-term. But at this rate, the long-term looks good.

Injury Attorneys

Prosser D. “Sandy” Carnegie has spent almost 30 years representing clients who have suffered substantial injuries due to another person’s negligence or criminal conduct, always with the client’s best interest above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the law including contract preparation and review, residential and commercial closings, land development and acquisition as well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia. In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community. Sandy, a Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as a commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of the Lions Club, and serves on the boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players. He was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

Jim Fuller, a former NC Court of Appeals Judge, is a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the State for his commitment to justice and his exceptional litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience, he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people who have been injured by the negligent or criminal conduct of others. Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove and attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A member of the Lions Club, Jim also serves on the boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players. He was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

APPEALS • BANKRUPTCY • BUSINESS LAW • LITIGATION • PERSONAL INJURY • COLLECTIONS • ESTATE PLANNING • REAL ESTATE • WILLS & TRUSTS

Exceptional attorneys. Close to Home.

209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 • (704) 892-1699 • www.mcintoshlawfirm.com