Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

In wet conditions, Caskey leads men’s soccer to 4-1 upset of #25 Gamecocks

ZACHARY ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

A team wanting to be recognized on a national stage must have a tough schedule including many non-conference and nationally ranked opponents. Not only is this schedule vital to a team gaining national recognition, but winning these matches is the most important task after the schedule is made.

Davidson hosted and dominated the No. 25 nationally ranked opponent on Friday night at Alumni Stadium. Putting on a soccer clinic packed with an amazing offensive outing, superior defensive skill, and an extensive level of team cohesiveness, Davidson showed its fans what Davidson soccer is all about. Defeating the Gamecocks by a score of 4-1 in front of nearly 1000 fans, Davidson improved to 6-1 this season.

“The team stepped up their game for such a big opponent,” Coach Matt Spear said. “I really enjoyed watching the team accomplish and experience such a big win.”

Davidson midfielder Alex Caskey ’11 scored two goals and assisted on another in the Wildcats’ 4-1 upset of #25 South Carolina.

Davidson got off to an early lead when Charlie Reiter ’10 brought the ball downfield and passed it to Alex Caskey ’11. After crossing midfield, Caskey sent a perfect pass downfield to a streaking...

---

Wildcats face stern test with trip to Jacksonville to play defending PFL champion Dolphins

RAY FRANCIS
Staff Writer

Davidson’s football team will look to come out of their bye week strong when the Wildcats travel to Jacksonville to challenge the defending champions of the Pioneer Football League. The Jacksonville Dolphins have begun the season 1-2. They kicked off their season with a 40-24 victory over Webber International before back-to-back setbacks at Samford (27-0) and Old Dominion (28-27).

The Wildcats (1-2, 1-0) will look to ride their momentum from a stirring 24-7 victory last weekend over Campbell. After failing to record a point in the first half, the Wildcat offense scored on four out of six possessions in the second half to secure the victory. The defense also stood tall, holding the Camels to under 200 total yards.

Quarterback Michael Blanchard ’11 threw the first two touchdown passes of his career against the Camels. His leading receiver this year has been Andrew Aldrich ’10, with 10 receptions for 121 yards and a touchdown. Kenny Mantuo ’11 has led the Wildcat ground attack, producing 232 yards on 43 carries (a 5.4 average) and the only Wildcat rushing touchdown.

---

Alex Caskey ’11
Men’s Soccer
DUNWOODY, GEORGIA

The junior midfielder was named SoCon Player of the Week after recording five points (two goals, one assist) in the Wildcats’ 4-1 upset of #25 South Carolina on Friday night. Additionally, Caskey’s performance earned him a spot on Soccer America’s National Team of the Week.of the young season. See Football, page 10

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2009

Cats drop first two games in Southern Conference play

JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

Wrapping up a three-week, five-game stretch of road games, the women’s soccer team dropped tough contests against Western Carolina and Appalachian State last weekend. In both matches, the 'Cats maintained steady possession and control but couldn’t convert opportunities into points.

Friday night brought the squad to the mountains of Cullowhee, NC, to face the Catamounts of Western Carolina. From the get-go, the offense opened up an aggressive front, letting off several shots within the first few minutes.

“We started really well,” head coach Greg Ashton said. “Playing on the road, coming off the bus, getting a good start is critical. Our effort, energy, and composure were spot on.”

Stephanie Gerow ’12, Blakely Low ’10, and Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10 all recorded shots in the opening minutes. As the first half closed with both teams at nil, the home team regained its stance against the Wildcat attack.

“When we didn’t score, it gave the opposition a chance to settle down and weather the storm,” Ashton said.

In the second half, the Catamounts converted their effort into an offensive advance. Just five minutes into the period, they ripped a shot off the crossbar, rattling the Wildcat confidence. Then in quick succession, six minutes later, a free kick scraped through Davidson’s defensive front. After that opening stint, the Western Carolina offense failed to break through for a third goal against keeper Jessie Baxa ’12, who notched four saves in the contest. But the one-two punch would be enough to quell the ’Cats in the opening match of SoCon action.

Despite leading the shot tally 12-8, Davidson could not capitalize on its repeated attempts on goal. Amid the adversity, Ashton’s coaching style still advises a constant course.

“We’re trying to be a more possession-oriented team,” he said. “We want to make consecutive passes to get into the final third. And really, that’s my philosophy as a coach right now to keep playing this way.”

For him, it’s about service to his players, who’ve worked within the pass-heavy structure all year. “I’m optimistic that the team will keep persevering with what I’m asking them to do. I’m not about to just throw everything we’ve done out.”

See ’Cats, page 11

photo by Tripp Bartholomew
Fue ’10 dribbles with eye on teammate Callan Elswick during a recent home game. The ’Cats host a pair of games against SoCon foes UNCG and Elon this weekend at Alumni Stadium.

Forward Yannick Pilgrim ’11 gave the Wildcats an early 1-0 lead over #25 South Carolina when he scored in the 23rd minute of the ’Cats’ 4-1 win over the Gamecocks. Pilgrim took a perfectly placed pass from Alex Caskey ’11 and drilled a shot from the left corner of the penalty box for his fourth goal of the season.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Pilgrim’s goal gives ’Cats early lead in 4-1 rout of Gamecocks