THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, April 1, 2009

Filmmakers Josh Gibson and Shambhavi Kaul featured their award-winning documentary films and a short question-answer session last Wednesday in the 900 Room. Each work followed.

Josh Gibson and Shambhavi Kaul, both instructors of the Accademia dell’Arte Summer Study Abroad Program in Tuscany, Italy, co-run a production company, Hardlight Limited, in Durham, NC. It was a surprising accident when Gibson, who hails from Davidson, N.C., got the idea to create a documentary about the lives of two Siamese twins.

“I didn’t know a lot about the Siamese twins Chang and Eng at the time; but as I did more research, I started to learn more about their life in North Carolina. I became more fascinated, started collecting information and began the process of making this film,” said Gibson during an interview with Independent Weekly.

Audience members enjoyed gourmet cookies and popcorn as the night’s first presentation, Gibson’s “The Siamese Connection,” was shown.

Filmmakers Josh Gibson, above, and his wife Shambhavi Kaul showcased their documentaries, “The Siamese Connection” and “Field of Stone,” in the 900 Room last Wednesday. Gibson’s film made its world premiere as part of the New Docs program during 2008’s Full Frame Documentary Festival. Despite the challenges that Gibson faced during production, the film employed a variety of cinematic techniques and storytelling styles. The hardest aspect of creating this documentary for Gibson involved presenting historically accurate information using a limited number of historical records.

Chang and Eng Bunker, who were labeled by the New York Times as “the most curious natural curiosity,” were Siamese twins who resided in Mt. Airy, N.C. from 1839 to 1879. They spent their lives connected by less than an inch of tendon. In this film, Gibson highlights the lives of these two Siamese twins after they left P.T. Barnum’s circus. Both Chang and Eng’s great-granddaughters were also interviewed during the making of the documentary.

Following a brief question and answer session, Kaul introduced her documentary, “Field of Stone,” an hour-long presentation that described the life of country music star David Allan Coe. Kaul noted the difficulty involved in depicting an accurate description of David Allan Coe in an interview with Independent Weekly.

“When I started making this film, the biggest realization was that I was trying to make an intimate portrait of a very complex person,” said Kaul. Insisting that the inclination to label the true outsider of the outlaw country movement as a racist or misogynist simply doesn’t work. “But, on some level, this was going to be a film about not knowing, a film about not getting the answers. I still don’t know what he is,” she said.

Anyone who is familiar with David Allan Coe’s career knows that it has been a checkered one. A tattoo-covered ex-felon who is known to kick off a live concert by riding on-stage on a Harley and screaming obscenities, Coe has collaborated and recorded with stars such as Willie Nelson and Tammy Wynette. Kaul’s cinematic presentation of Coe followed him on tours and shed light on his personal life. The film also offered a critical look at Coe’s on-stage persona and the blue-collar fans who support his racist, rebellious behavior.

After a brief question and answer session with Kaul, audience members were treated to a reception. Any Davidson student who is interested in studying theatre, filmmaking, or dance at Accademia dell’Arte in Tuscany, Italy, this summer with Gibson, Kaul...and other renowned artists should visit www.dell-arte.org.

Coming Saturday, ‘Greenstock’ will offer a day of eco-activities

Monique McINTOSH
Staff Writer

The days of Woodstock’s free love, music, and unity (drug-induced or otherwise) may be gone. But the era’s communion with nature lives on with Davidson College’s “Greenstock:” a day of service, community cooperation, and advocacy.

“Greenstock” is the culminating event for Engage for Change’s year of focusing on the issue of environmental justice. Greenstock will be a collaborative effort among the Eco-House, Davidson Outdoors, local businesses, and environmental advocacy groups to “explore the responsible use of environmental resources as well as the current lack of basic environmental rights.”

The event will take place Saturday, April 4, and students will be able to participate all day in service projects and partake in food, crafts, music, and poetry geared towards building environmental consciousness on campus and in the Davidson community.

On Saturday morning, volunteers will begin the day’s events by working on three environmentally based service projects around the community. Volunteers will help re-landscape the garden at the Ada Jenkins Center and collaborate with Davidson Elementary on improving the Eco-trail. There will also be the opportunity to work with the Charlotte Mecklenburg Storm Water Service to paint storm drains in order to discourage dumping.

Students are encouraged to begin their Saturday in the spirit of “Greenstock” by visiting the Davidson Farmer’s Winter Market between 9 and 11 a.m. Situated behind Summit Coffee, the market offers a cornucopia of organic, locally grown agricultural and horticultural products as well as educational activities.

From there, “Greenstock” kicks off its Environment Fair at 12 p.m. It will be located outside the Alvarez College Union in the Mariam Cannon Hayes Amphitheatre. Local environmental advocacy groups will flank the sidewalks, exposing visitors to the objectives and issues of their organizations. The music of student performers will pervade the area, festively uniting the participants while also speaking on important environmental resource issues between acts.

Davidson Outdoors, famous among students for their Dutch-oven concoctions, will prepare and give out slow-cooked food samples all afternoon. Students can also participate in eco-friendly crafts, including preparing personal herb-growing pots to take home with them.

The Clothing Swap boxes scattered around campus and the town will finally be emptied of their contents and made available. For only five dollars, students can take as many “gently-used” clothing items as they can carry in one bag. Clothes collected from the Clothing Swap boxes will also be used in a fashion show, with familiar Davidson faces modeling the winning designs. “We are not giving any hints about who they might be,” says Christie Mason ’10, publicity chair for Engage for Change, about the possible models. “We want students to be surprised and entertained.”

Greenstock’s afternoon activities will have some of that Woodstock milieu as bands will perform all afternoon. Musical acts include Davidson’s own A capella group, “The Delilahs,” the jazzy “Waylen Roche and Friends,” a little ska from “The Flytones,” the folk rock quartet “You and Your Effects,” and the bluesy group “Tumblin’ Dice.”

Poetry readings will be given by our own Hamilton May, Brian Romaine, Marina Coma, Eric Morel, and the community poet Andy Simkus. Some of the poetry performed at Greenstock is inspired by the day’s theme of environmental justice. Mason expressed, “hope that the music and festivities will bring our community together for environmental services and education in a fun and exciting atmosphere.”

Whether digging fingers deep into potting soil, sampling Dutch-oven cuisine, or reflecting on environmental poetry-jam sessions, students can discover numerous ways to get involved in and passionate about an issue pertinent in these times, particularly in Davidson’s year of sustainability.