THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009

Underclassmen attended smaller, milder events over the course of a few nights to welcome them to the Patterson Court social scene, but upperclassmen sacrificed a part of Davidson culture that they’d participated in for years. The Union, opening the Lilly Gallery to provide students a sanctuary of study and snacks before finals, was a success.

The Davidsonian
Editor-in-Chief: Brett Willis
Managing Editor: Brian Park
News Editors: Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood
Perspectives Editors: Anna Norris & Clint Smith
Arts & Living Editor: Jennifer Gambrell
Yowl Editor: Alex Greening
Sports Editors: Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
Head Copy Editors: Christy Carry & Nami Patel
Business & Circulation Managers: Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright
Assistant Copy Editors: Joel Fineman, Ryan Price & Elizabeth Watts
Photography Staff: Tripp Bartholomew, Bill Giduz & C.R. Shaw

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail: Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Only the staff editorials represent the views of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Email Jordan Wall at jowall@davidson.edu for advertising inquiries. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Events
The Obamas' first State Dinner and the Salahi crashers, the Health Care debate in the Senate, the environmental summit in Copenhagen, a Presidential trip to Stockholm, and oh yeah, two wars in the Middle East, one of which just got an overhauled strategy. The world of US news and politics is bursting at the seams and makes me wonder, will the current system be able to process all of these major issues? As Thomas Friedman said when he was on campus last month, “If only we could be China for a day.” Of course, we would never want to give up our democratic system, but it seems that the 535 elected officials in Congress have their hands full, particularly as they try to back up a new president with an ambitious first-term agenda. The last government employment census (conducted in 2002) says that there are about 2.7 million people working to support the President and Congress by implementing the policies that they create. Still, it seems to me that there is a serious federal logjam that is not just bad for the Obama Administration politically but also detrimental to the international face of the United States. Whether issues are being held up for political reasons or by the size of new federal initiatives, TARP, TARP2, and the Recovery Act, the Obama Administration is losing its focus and getting stuck on side issues. In my mind, it is crucial that America truly take action to re-brand its image and drastically reform its domestic regulations so that we are in a position to lead the world once again. Let’s face it, we have abandoned our position as the leaders of the free world. We have contracted into a society of energy-greedy leeches. We are too distracted by petty political fights and an unnatural obsession with popular culture. The fabric of the American dream today is not the same as it was ten, twenty, or fifty years ago. The great challenge for America at this crucial juncture is not to just return to being a leader of the world but also to change the fabric of our culture. We need to become stewards of our planet, not consumers. We need to remember to help all of those who can’t help themselves. We need to ensure that we are safe in the most efficient and peaceful ways possible. We need to innovate and once again create the future for the rest of the world. We need to make amends politically and create policy in a bi-partisan manner, where the minority respects the majority. Above all, we need to stop being complacent and act with a sense of urgency because if we fail, America will have had her best days behind her. We will wind up defaulting on our ballooning debt and becoming, for the first time in over a century, an ordinary nation. The Obama Administration took office pledging to realistically solve our country’s problems, but the democratic majority blinked and has allowed its agenda to be hijacked by special interest groups, by people who are more concerned with maintaining the status quo instead of changing it for the better. I trust President Obama, that is not to say that you should too, but I prefer to give him a chance rather than reject his ideas off-hand and dismiss them immediately as too liberal, socialistic, or un-American. In the end, President Obama is just the vehicle to change the fabric of our country. The moral values of our country need changing and in this urgent time, we need this President.He can bring us down a new road faster than any other person in the world. America needs Obama, the world needs America, so as we approach the New Year, it is time for a reset, starting now. Scott Matthews ’13 is undeclared. He is from Greenwich, CT. Contact him at samatthews@davidson.edu.

Soldiers Should be lauded, not tried

We, the people of the United States, ask our military to perform in ways we can barely fathom. We ask soldiers to walk and to drive on roads where IEDs direct traffic instead of stoplights. We ask them to spend days out on patrol in the cold, harsh crags of the Hindu Kush or the sandstorms of Mosul. We ask them to obey rules of engagement, which exchange force protection for population protection. We ask them to spend months at a time away from their families without the day-to-day comforts we enjoy. We ask them to walk down dark alleys, approach dubious figures, and knock on dangerous doors. We should be thankful that the men and women of our armed forces not only do all we ask, but even surpass our requests. Our soldiers sacrifice everything to keep the flag flying across these United States. Few do the flag prouder than the United States Navy SEALs.

The real dereliction of duty has come at the hands of the military brass and United States government. In early fall, these soldiers successfully performed a snatch-and-grab on one of the most wanted terrorists in Iraq, Ahmed Hashim Abed. Mr. Abed warranted such a visit by the SEALs when in 2004 he masterminded a Fallujah attack on a Blackwater USA convoy. All four American contractors, Scott Helvenston, Jerko Zovko, Wesley Batalona, and Michael Teague, were killed. Their bodies were dismembered, burned, dragged through the streets, and hung from a bridge spanning the Euphrates River all while Iraqis cheered (For the brutally graphic images of Abed’s handiwork, Google Image “blackwater fallujah.”). Thus, Abed’s capture once again distinguishes the elite nature of the SEALs. Anytime our special operators capture a wanted, high-level terrorist, we should all be amazed. Capturing terrorists is not like the FBI’s white-collar unit picking up Bernie Madoff. In the words of retired special operator Jim Hansen, “It rates up there with trying to conduct a Beethoven Symphony with your orchestra in free fall, screaming towards Earth like a phalanx of freaking lawn darts.” While no new information can be gained without capturing high-level targets, it is certainly simpler for our troops to deal with them through the Zarqawi method: two 500-pound bombs.

Now, three of the SEALs responsible for the capture of Abed are facing court-martial for their actions while detaining Abed. The SEALs, with absolutely no respect for human life, repeatedly kicked Abed until he was a bloody mess, then poured gasoline on him, and let him burn while hanging from a flagpole. Oh wait, that is what Abed did, not the SEALs. The SEALs are facing court-martial because Abed ended up with a bloody lip after being in their custody. The SEALs, after capturing Abed, turned him over to the Iraqi government where he, using the ever-reliable terrorist playbook, claimed abuse. The United States government agreed abuse occurred and thus Petty Officers Matthew McCabe, Jonathan Keefe, and Julio Huertas are charged with assault and dereliction of duty. The real dereliction of duty has come at the hands of the military brass and United States government. Should we really be concerned that our SEALs bloodied the lip of a man without any conscience of humanity? The SEALs do not get trained and paid to deliver flowers and hugs. You want the SEALs to be able to bloody lips; otherwise, who is left to guard the Stars and Stripes? Congress? The military high command need to reconsider the oaths they have sworn. Increasingly, they are trading duty for politics, which recently exploded when Major Malik Hasan killed fourteen people at Fort Hood. The Pentagon should immediately drop the court-martial charges and let the SEALs resume their duties. The United States must decide whether it is at war or just involved in a worldwide prosecution endeavor. Are we trying to issue indictments or kill terrorists? Simply put, we cannot do both. Equally simple, we cannot throw the legal code at Islamo-fascists and expect peace. In 1993, we used the legal code after the World Trade Center was bombed. We formed grand juries, issued warrants, made arrests, and ultimately convicted fourteen Islamo-fascists on everything from seditious conspiracy to murder. The trial showed the enemy the effectiveness and fairness of our legal system, and they responded by finishing the job on September 11, 2001. We are witnessing a United States more interested in prosecuting its own soldiers and spies than defeating the enemy. How long can a country survive when it presents heroes with court-martials instead of commendations? The United States will find out soon enough.

Bobby DesPain ’11 is a biology major from St. Louis, MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.