12 Tue DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, November 4, 2009

Cats edge Eagles 2-1 on Senior Day, clinch SoCon tournament berth

JOHN MORGAN Staff Writer
ANNA STOCKAMORE Staff Writer

After the women’s soccer team allowed the tying goal in the 86th minute, the 'Cats downed Georgia Southern in the closing moments to advance to the SoCon tournament this weekend. Facing the one-win Georgia Southern Eagles, the 'Cats were well aware of the stakes, and nerves were in full force. With Loring Ward ’10 between the pipes for senior night, the home team took an aggressive stance from the get-go. By minute 10, the ’Cats had already launched five shots, and that tally steadily climbed throughout the first half to top out at 16. Their opposition managed one attempt on goal. But through the first 45 minutes, Davidson’s repeated rips at the net refused to amount to a score. It was obvious who controlled the game, but the frustration still set in the Wildcat offense. Blakely Low ’10 and Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10 lit up the Southern keeper with a combined 11 shots, but had nothing to show for it. As the teams retired for halftime, the score held nil-nil. And a tie wouldn’t do it—a win was a must for a chance at the postseason.

See Soccer, page 11

Davidson volleyball tops Wofford, nearly upsets undefeated Furman

MIKE FRONGELLO Sports Editor

The Davidson women’s volleyball team continued their current hot streak with an impressive showing in a pair of home matches over the weekend. On Friday night, the 'Cats

Late surge propels Wildcats to 4-2 victory over Longwood

The Davidson Wildcats played a phenomenal match against Longwood to wrap up their regular season games Saturday afternoon on the Belk Turf field. Goalkeepers, Christa Goeke ’10 and Mary Clay ’10, and midfielder, Liz Luckey ’10, were all recognized before the competition for their commitment to the team. The Cats' 4-2 defeat over Longwood and constant effort on the field certainly made it an exciting game to watch. As Coach Ginny Sutton said, “All of their hard work is paying off. We’re peaking at the right time and put together a great 70 minutes today.”

The first half of the match started off with back-to-back goals, but soon leveled off to a steady half of offensive attacks and defensive resistance from both sides. Off a play from a penalty corner in the 13th minute of the game, Jennie Mostellar ’11 scored the first goal of the match. Longwood rallied back quickly with a penalty shot only two minutes later by Lauren van de Kamp. The rest of the first half remained

Photo by Tripp Bartholomew

Courtney Hart ’10 controls the ball during the Wildcats’ dramatic 2-1 win over Georgia Southern on Saturday afternoon. Hart was one of nine Davidson seniors honored before the game.

the Longwood match commenced. Longwood took the 2-1 lead when Lauren van de Kamp scored her second goal of the game. The Wildcats, however, came back with a vengeance. With a pass from Ellie Szykowny ’11, Hannah English ’12 scored off the next penalty corner opportunity. With barely any time left on the clock, the game stood even at 2-2. An unsatisfied Davidson rallied and Goeke, the goalkeeper, held off the Longwood offensive pressure, as Szykowny scored with only 2:38 left in the second half from an assist by English. In the final seconds of the game, Davidson scored again, when Mostellar tapped a shot from Clare Perry ’11 across the goal line, creating a 4-2 win. The game was close with the Wildcats outshooting Longwood by only a 15-13 margin and leading in penalty corners by 8-6. “We had a great effort today, and now we’re looking forward to going out to California for the conference tournament,” Sutton said. The Cats now stand at 6-11 overall and 2-4 in NorPac East. The team will head out to Stanford, California for the conference tournament.Dominated Wofford 3-1 (25-22, 15-25, 25-16, 25-22) to extend their winning streak to three games heading into Saturday’s match with Furman. Furman entered the match a perfect 11-0 in Southern Conference play, but the Wildcats gave them all they could handle as the Paladins needed a late rally to avoid the upset and take a 3-2 (25-19, 20-25, 24-26, 25-16, 15-10) victory.

In the opening set of Friday’s match with Wofford, Davidson jumped out to an early 4-1 lead and held a 14-11 advantage in the set until the Terriers responded with a 5-0 run to take a 16-14 lead. The 'Cats won three of the next four points to tie the game at 17-17 and closed the set strongly to claim the first set 25-22. The Terriers evened the match at one set apiece with a dominating 25-15 performance in the second set. The Wildcats were equally dominating in the pivotal third set as they jumped out to an 8-3 lead on their way to a 25-16 set victory. Wofford looked like they might force a fifth set as they led 11-6 early in the set, but the Wildcats stayed close and trailed just 16-13 when Anna Bradbury ’11 took serve for Davidson. Bradbury served nine straight points for the 'Cats as they cruised to a 25-22 fourth set win to clinch the match victory. Bradbury recorded a match-best 46 assists to go along with four aces, while Sarabeth Peele ’11 and Jorden Benedict ’11 each recorded double-digit kills with 17 and 12, respectively.

On Saturday, Davidson hosted first-place Furman in a crucial SoCon match-up. The Wildcats fell 25-19 in the opening set but responded with inspired play in the second set. The 'Cats went ahead 7-3 early and were in control of the set, leading by as much as 23-16 before holding on for a 25-20 set victory to even the match at a set apiece. It appeared Furman would take a 2-1 lead as the Paladins clung to a 24-22 lead late in the set, but Benedict put away three straight points for the 'Cats to claim a 25-24 lead. Ariel Ley ’13 completed the 26-24 comeback set victory with a service ace, and the Wildcats stood just one set away from handing the Paladins their first conference loss of the season.

In the fourth set, however, Furman displayed why they have yet to lose a SoCon game this season. The Wildcats trailed just 14-13 in the fourth set, but the Paladins closed the set with an 11-3 run to force a decisive fifth set. Davidson led 3-2 early in the set but was unable to sustain the early momentum. Furman opened up a 7-4 lead and cruised to a 15-10 win to complete the comeback and move to a perfect 12-0 in SoCon play. Peele had another impressive performance, accounting for 18 kills.

Player of the Week: Ellie Szykowny ’11, Field Hockey, Columbus, Ohio. The junior forward earned NorPac East Offensive Player of the Week honors after scoring the Wildcats’ game-winning goal with less than three minutes remaining in Saturday’s 4-2 win over Longwood. Szykowny also assisted on the game-tying goal earlier in the game.

Hannah English ’12 had a goal and an assist in the 'Cats’ 4-2 win over Longwood on Saturday. Davidson faces Cal-Berkley in the first round of the NorPac Tournament Thursday night.

Play of the Week: Own goal sends 'Cats to SoCon tournament. With the score tied 1-1 and less than three minutes remaining in regulation in Saturday's regular season finale against Georgia Southern, Rachel Barnett’s ’13 shot was saved by Eagles’ goalkeeper Lauren Santos, but an Eagles’ player miskicked the rebound into their own goal to give the 'Cats a 2-1 victory.