a DAVIDSON COLLEGE

MUNRO’S AUDIENCE PERSPECTIVE
see NEWS, page 2

“BRICK BY BRICK”
Building Tomorrow raises money for Uganda schools.
see ARTS, page 5

"CATS FALL AT BELK"
Men’s basketball snaps home, SoCon streaks in loss to C of C.
see SPORTS, page 12

BUTLER TIP SET FOR Noon, Feb. 21
‘60s B-BALL STAR MIKE MALLOY PASSES IN AUSTRIA

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2009

Davidson Show makes its

“THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY”

Move: Out with the dorm, in with the Outpost

Photo by Austin Bell
Still photos of The Davidson Show cast reflect the wacky nature of the show that recently moved into their new “Catcave” studio in the Outpost.

Maura McGinn
Staff Writer

Davidson students generally associate the Outpost with spicy chicken quesadillas, nachos, and other snacks on Friday and Saturday evenings. Unbeknownst to many, the Outpost currently houses two of the average Davidson student’s greatest loves: late-night munchies and the wildly popular Davidson Show.

The Davidson Show is a weekly televised comedy show comprised of student-produced segments and previews for upcoming campus events. The show had humble beginnings, as it was originally mostly shot in a dorm room, but it has recently moved to an exciting new venue. Now in its third season, the Davidson Show operates out of a newly renovated studio located in the Outpost basement. Although the Union Board funds the show, the new space was made financially possible through proposals made to President Tom Ross and the Activity Tax Council (ATC). The new studio renders the show’s previous introduction, “from the dorm room of one Davidson College student,” obsolete.

Rumors have buzzed around campus regarding the Davidson

See Show, page 4

Women who learn together, lead together: First annual women’s leadership conference

Krista TIMEUS
Staff Writer

In order to help create a network of women professionals and leaders, Davidson is hosting its first annual Women’s Leadership Conference on Feb. 20 and 21. According to Alex McArthur ‘09, one of the conference planning committee chairs, the first Annual Women’s Leadership Conference aims to cultivate a culture of strong female leadership at Davidson College and in our community through the exploration of a wide range of strategies for effective leadership and the development of a female leadership network.

“We have been amazed at the outpouring of excitement and support from both Davidson College and the surrounding Davidson community,” McArthur said. “Although this is our first year, we hope that this conference will become a Davidson tradition.”

Hoping to approach the topic from varying angles, the conference will consist of several events throughout the weekend, including a “Cross-Generational Dialogue” between the 50 female student leaders and the 50 female community leaders participating in the day’s activities.

Additionally, two keynote speakers will share their experiences and lessons learned with the community. Friday night will kick off the event with a dinner and Keynote speaker, Shannon McFadden ’82, a Davidson Alum and former Vice President of Human Resources for Wachovia. Saturday’s speaker, Lynn Hennighausen, will offerHer thoughts on how to balance a profession with other aspects of life, such as family, a challenge many women face when making career choices: The event won’t be all lecture, no play, though. There will be plenty of opportunities for participating students and community leaders to interact with each other. The “Stimulating Breakout Sessions,” a form of workshop, will assist attendees in developing self-exploration and skill-building habits. Another goal of these activities is for students and professionals to network. The idea is that establishing contacts and knowing prominent female leaders in various fields can compel students to pursue ambitious career and leadership paths.

The Women’s Leadership Conference is part of the Chidsey Leadership Development program, whose mission is to “cultivate opportunities for Davidson students... so that they may be effective leaders in any group or setting in which they find themselves.” Next weekend, women in Davidson and the community can get closer to becoming those effective leaders.

See WLC, page 2

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 16

First-year housing crunch

ANNA STOCKAMORE
Staff Writer

“The goal is to make sure every first-year student has a bed,” Associate Dean of Students and Director of Residence Life Patty Perillo said. Although this goal may seem simple enough, after receiving an over 20 percent increase in Early Decision applications from last year, the Admissions office predicts an even larger first-year class than this year’s 482 students. The Admissions Office has received 4,472 applications at this point, which is an all-time high and a 1.3 percent increase from last year. Taking these figures into account, next year’s incoming class could contain upwards of 490 students. This means that RLO needs to devise a plan to create room for eight more beds.

At a larger institution, finding space for eight beds may seem trivial; however, at a school like Davidson, with only 1,700 students and a limited amount of housing space, this addition poses a logistical feat. RLO and the admissions office have recognized this predicament and are already dealing with the issue. Dean Perillo stated that earlier this semester she sent out an email to RLO, SGA, and the student advisory board asking for any recommendations for creating new viable living spaces. Many suggestions were voiced, such as switching the recently renovated Richardson Hall to an upperclassmen dorm, but RLO is not considering this option. Dean Perillo stated, “Richardson has always been a first-year hall, and we feel it is important to keep this tradition.”

Two solutions have emerged as the most feasible options: one is to convert Cannon, which was turned into a first-year hall, back to an upperclassmen residence hall, and then to switch Little to a first-year residence hall. The second option is to rearrange which floors of Belk will house first-year students, since certain levels have the potential to hold a greater number of beds, house upperclassmen, and first-year students. A definite decision on this issue will be made in a meeting next week, with the overall goal in mind, “to maintain the integrity of living space for both first years.”

See RLO, page 3