THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, March 18, 2009 11

SPORTS

Wildcat Pulse

MARCH MADNESS:
NIT CENTRAL

Men’s Tennis vs. Illinois-Chicago
Women’s Tennis vs. Brown
Mon. @ 2:00, Covington Courts

Davidson’s men’s and women’s tennis host a pair of nonconference opponents at Covington Courts this week.

Outside the Den

NBA Basketball
Portland TrailBlazers at Cleveland Cavaliers
Thur. @ 8:00, TNT

LeBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers continue their quest for the top seed and home court advantage in the Eastern
Conference when they take on Brandon Roy and the Portland Trailblazers Thursday night.

Davidson’s path to MSG

Second Round
March 19, 20, 21, 23

San Diego St. (23-9)
San Diego St.
Weber St. (21-9)
Kansas St. (21-11)
Illinois St. (24-9)
South Carolina (21-9)
Davidson
Davidson (26-7)
St. Mary’s (CA) (26-6)
Washington St. (17-15)

Quarterfinals
March 24, 25

Semifinals
Madison Square Garden
March 31

Jim’s career-long track record of achieving successful results for his clients has earned him recognition throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named to the Best Lawyers in America publication consistently for the
past 23 years and was recently named as one of the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina.

As a former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the State
for his commitment to justice and his exceptional litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience, he has dedicated his
legal practice to helping people who have been injured by the negligent or criminal conduct of others.

Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A member of the
Lions Club, Jim also serves on the boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Conservancy, and the Davidson Community
Players and was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

THE McINTOSH LAW FIRM
Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home

APPEALS • BANKRUPTCY • BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS • ESTATE PLANNING • LITIGATION
PERSONAL INJURY • REAL ESTATE • WILLS & TRUSTS

Jim Fuller and “Sandy” Carnegie

Prosser D. “Sandy” Carnegie has spent almost 30 years representing clients who have suffered substantial injuries due to another person's
negligence or criminal conduct, always with the client’s best interest above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas
of the law including contract preparation and review, residential and commercial closings, land development and acquisition as well as zoning.
Sandy is licensed to practice before all state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia.

In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community. Sandy,
a Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children,
Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as a commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town
of Davidson committees, he is a member of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of Williams Masonic Lodge #176,
AF. & A.M. and has coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the Davidson, Cornelius and Mooresville communities.

209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 • (704) 892-1699 • www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

Substantial scholarships, up to full-tuition, are now being awarded to top applicants for a new one-year Master's Program in Finance
beginning Fall 2009.

Acquire the expertise you will need to succeed in the marketplace of the future. Leverage a dedicated career specialist and
extensive alumni network in entering the market.

Build your leadership potential in the co-curricular program and meet with distinguished speakers.

For more information, or to apply, visit www.claremontmckenna.edu/rdsgraduate or contact us at rdsadmission@cmc.edu.

THE ROBERT DAY SCHOOL
CLAREMONT McKENNA COLLEGE

500 E. NINTH STREET, CLAREMONT, CA 91711 TEL: 909-607-3347
