THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2009 3

Renowned economist V. Kerry Smith tackles economics of sustainability

By Lo Staff Writer

Renowned economist V. Kerry Smith addressed the question of whether environmental economics is essential to sustainability sciences in the 2009 Cornelson Lecture last Thursday night in Tyler-Talmage Hall.

Before the lecture began, Associate Economics Professor Fred Smith informed the audience that Dr. Smith’s presentation was the culmination of Davidson Economics Department’s Senior Session. The program requires students to participate in colloquia on economic problems, theory, and policy, prepare projects on economic issues, and take comprehensive exams that include the ETS Major Field Test in economics, an oral exam, and written examinations in economic theory and analysis. Senior Session is the capstone of the Economics major and each year the Cornelson Endowment allows Davidson to bring a distinguished economist on campus for the benefit of both Economics majors and students in other fields of interest.

Chair of the Davidson Economics Department Dr. David Martin introduced the 23rd Cornelson speaker as “one of the most prolific and respected economists” of the day. Dr. Martin pointed out that rather than limiting his interests to a narrow niche, Dr. Smith carefully reads economics articles on numerous and diverse topics. As a result of his expansive knowledge, Dr. Smith’s works have been cited over 2,500 times by other economists. Among his many accomplishments and contributions, Dr. Smith has been appointed as a University Fellow in the Quality of the Environment division at Resources for the Future and as a Research Associate in the Environmental and Energy Economics program at the National Bureau of Economic Research. He was also selected as an inaugural Fellow of the Association of Environmental and Resource Economists in 2005.

After assuming the stage, Dr. Smith began his lecture with a slide that read simply “YES!” to indicate the answer to his question of interest, “Is Environmental Economics Essential to Sustainability Science?” Receiving grins and laughter from the audience, he laid the foundation for his lecture by recounting the history of environmental economics. He attributes the development of the field to John Krutilla and Allen Kneese, whom he called “central to the development of the field as we know it now.” While Krutilla identified the effects of interactions between irreversibility and uncertainty and challenged the concept of consumption, Kneese focused on how we might represent production and consumption processes more effectively.

Moving into the portion of his lecture that dealt with environmental economics today, Dr. Smith repeatedly emphasized the importance of economic incentives as opposed to command and control economics. “We can measure the tradeoffs people make for more or less of good and the services available outside markets. These are what are important to real policy choices,” he said.

Dr. Smith encourages understanding the joint roles of natural systems and economic systems as well as the reformation of economic activity in the application of environmental economics to the new science of sustainability. He provided two CGE models with non-separable environmental services to demonstrate the practical implications of his suggestion. The first dealt with the efficiency costs of a tax on energy with pre-existing taxes, where the tax was motivated by air pollution. Dr. Smith commented, “we need to consistently account for the relationship between pollution, consumption, production, and the choices that people make.” The second example addressed a tax that aimed to reduce pollution and whether the role of non-use or existence values affected the shadow values that would be assigned to the services provided from such a policy.

To conclude his lecture, Dr. Smith offered several lessons to be gleaned from the current context of environmental economics. “All decisions, including public policies, never escape materials and energy balances,” he said. He also emphasized that feedbacks are both inside and outside markets, and where we stand affects where we can get. Dr. Smith advocates pyramid policies, which involve allowing what we have learned in the past 30 years to influence decisions we make regarding environmental sustainability in today’s economy.

Dr. Smith offered the audience several tips on promoting sustainability. He encouraged lobbying for complete informative labels on products in order to assure complete consumer sovereignty. “Let’s embrace a new economic paradigm,” he said, “where informed choices about market and non-market resources are absolutely essential elements in a sustainable market system.” His lecture is sure to leave Davidson’s 2009 Economics majors with a better grasp of the need for innovative ideas in the field.Field of environmental economics. Sociology 319 provides insight into criminal justice.

KATHERINE JOHNSON
Staff Writer

Most courses at Davidson do not require students to venture beyond the comfortable confines of Chambers Building, let alone beyond those of our idyllic campus. Sociology 319, “Penology and Criminal Justice,” breaks the mold of typical Davidson course offerings by requiring students to complete eight-week internships at one of four area prisons, allowing them to learn subject material in a hands-on, experiential fashion that pushes them out of their comfort zone.

This innovative course derives from an independent study opportunity conceived by Dr. Palmer of the Psychology Department in 1971. The following year, Dr. Ruth of the Sociology Department turned the independent study option into a course and has taught it nearly every spring since then. The course has even been endorsed by former North Carolina governors Jim Martin and Jim Hunt. Additionally, it was supported by former Davidson College President Bobby Vagt ’69, who was a prison chaplain after graduating from Duke Divinity School and then was in charge of prison psychological programs at five prisons.

Davidson was possibly the first college in the U.S. to offer a course like Sociology 319, as Dr. Ruth attended the 2004 Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences’ Roundtable and none of the other attendees could offer examples of similar courses at other U.S. academic institutions. Since then, courses similar to Sociology 319 have appeared at other colleges. According to Dr. Ruth, Sociology 319 “is a tremendous learning experience in which students not only learn about the criminal justice system,” but also “learn about themselves.” The course challenges students’ “preconceived notions regarding prisons and prisoners,” Dr. Ruth said.

For Sociology 319 student Cherise Collins ’09, the course hasn’t so much changed her preconceived notions as it has reaffirmed them. “I feel like it is pretty common knowledge that the justice system doesn’t really rehabilitate criminals, and this class really just drilled that in for me,” Collins said.

Before beginning their internships, students toured each of the four prisons, three of which are minimum security facilities and one of which is a medium security facility. Dr. Ruth shared that students can be intimidated during their first prison visit. Collins, for instance, was surprised and a little uncomfortable seeing how prisoners at minimum security institutions can walk around freely at times. Collins was also unnerved by the amount of attention students received at the prisons. “What really made me nervous were the stares. Wherever our tour group went, there were eyes everywhere,” she said.

Carolyn Klaasen ’09 was not so much intimidated by her first prison visit as she was surprised. “It was interesting pulling up to the first prison because it reminded me of summer camp, only with uniforms and razor wires everywhere,” Klaasen said. The medium security prison, Piedmont Correctional Institute, “was much more imposing on the outside than the minimum security prisons,” but inside, “it looked like a high school with uniforms and razor wire,” Klaasen shared.

At Piedmont Correctional Institute, students listened to a panel discussion facilitated by inmates. The discussion allowed Klaasen to sympathize with the participating inmates. The men on the panel were convicted of crimes like second-degree murder and armed robbery, but “even as they were telling us about their crimes, when you start learning about their lives and families, you start rooting for them to get out of prison,” Klaasen said. “I feel safe around many [of the prisoners,] even the murderers.”

In their four-hour per week internships, students are required to shadow prison staff and see what happens to inmates as they go through the process of moving through the prison. Spending four hours a week in prison “is more than enough for me,” Klaasen said. “I understand more that being locked up is itself a punishment, no matter how nicely you’re treated in the prison, it’s still a punishment to be in there.”

Students are also required to write a critique on a book authored by a prison inmate, write a final evaluation of North Carolina’s criminal justice system, and record “insightful observations” in journals, according to Dr. Ruth. Additionally, students interview and write.

See Sociology, page 4

The Pre-Law Society invites you to a special discussion of law and careers in law! President Ross & Yale Law Professor Bill Eskridge ’73 will discuss the field of law and their careers in law.

8pm, Thursday March 19th
Hance Auditorium (4th Floor Chambers)

Please join us and if you plan on attending e-mail Peter Costa at pecosta@davidson.edu