THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2009 15

John Morgan Staff Writer

Last week told a tale of two losses for the women’s team: one heartbreakingly close; one not so much. The ’Cats handily defeated both teams, Appalachian State and Western Carolina, earlier in the season. Still with a month left to go, the team is refocusing its energy on rebounding from its current five-game skid.

Early in December, Davidson drilled App State in Boone, 95-75. But 2009 brought a stronger intensity from the Mountaineers, especially from guard Frances Hernandez. Of App State’s 77 points, she scored 27. In response, the Wildcat offense only put 57 on the board. The stymied Davidson attack turned the ball over 25 times against the Mountaineers’ ferocious presses, traps, and double teams. The visitors to Belk Arena scored 31 points off these forced changes of possessions. While Thompson unleashed a 30-point onslaught in the first meeting, she was held scoreless on only three shots this time around. From Ashley Lax ’11 and Mercedes Robinson ’09—Davidson’s most consistent scorers—the team earned double-digit points. Robinson also posted 10 rebounds, giving the pre-season SoCon player of the year another impressive double-double.

Though on the surface the defense appeared unchanged—allowing 75 the first game and 77 the second—Thompson still points a finger at slip-ups on D. “We’ve allowed teams to score way more than they should against us,” she said. “[Defense] is always what we’ve been known for, so we’re all really upset about it.”

After only one day’s rest, the ’Cats traveled to Cullowhee, NC, to face Western Carolina. With a limited bench and frequent injuries, the team surely can blame some of its difficulties on sheer bad luck. But Thompson looks the other way. “We could throw ourselves a pity party,” she said. “Oh, look what we’ve had to deal with—losing our whole coaching staff, losing two scholarship players, injuries galore. But instead, we just accept and get better from it.”

After the App State defeat, the team did show signs of improvement, but they were not enough to respond to Western Carolina’s intensity. Davidson rocked the Catamounts 84-66 earlier in the season, but again, the ’Cats took on a revitalized opposition, hungry to avenge the previous loss. Brooke Johnson, the Catamounts’ feature player, dropped 22 points, including four threes. Davidson stuck in the game throughout, kept afloat by a bench that outscored Western Carolina’s 27-23. After an Alex Thompson layup with 2:55 remaining, the ’Cats narrowed the Catamount lead to 65-64, but two straight Wildcat turnovers sealed the deal in the home team’s favor. Johnson hit the last two free throws to put the nail in the coffin.

Giving off a more positive light, the loss witnessed the return of Thompson’s scoring ability, with 12 points against Western Carolina. Lax tied that total, while Mandy Halbersleben ’09 added 10. What may have made the difference in the game was the Catamounts’ pressure on Robinson, who only scored six. Still lookingFor that one win to stop the bleeding, the 'Cats continue their road stint this week with games against Wofford and Elon. In the teams' first meetings, Davidson won both by double-digit margins. After last week, the team will not let itself slide into complacency once again. "Our recent losing streak definitely is a good slap in the face," Thompson said. "It lets us know we've got to keep working if we want to be the top dog. It's not just going to be handed to us." With the Wofford game on Saturday, Jan. 31, the Wildcats will take this week to regroup and recommit themselves to the season's overarching goal — to win a championship. Simultaneously, the team must recognize its progress this year despite the obstacles. "On Saturday, our stress level was so high that we could not compete," Watts said. "But by Monday versus [Western Carolina] we did compete. Our goal this week is to have fun with our game and understand that we are the same team who went 7-0 and that we will be okay." Watts also supports taking a step back and reflecting on what really motivates this year's squad. "When you love what you are doing, you simply step away for a few days as frustrations sometimes overtake our minds," she said. "The love is always there and the desire to improve is ever present." "At the beginning of the season, we all respected each other and knew we were good players," Thompson said. "But I feel like over the season, we've learned how to complement each other. So it's moved from five good individual players on the court to a team that works well together."

Cats drop fifth straight, look to get back on track Saturday

Men's and women's teams defeated conference foe Gardner-Webb on Senior Day.

Swimming sweeps Gardner-Webb

ZACH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

On Saturday, Davidson hosted a dual men and women's meet against Gardner-Webb for this season's "Senior Day." The Davidson women's team had much to prove as the current seniors had never before beaten Gardner-Webb. The Davidson men's team posted a score of 168-111 to overcome the Bulldogs while the women's team captured a 162-126 victory. Two of the Davidson seniors, Alanna Ream '09 and Merritt Peele '09 had very strong performances and rose to the occasion on senior day.

The meet began with both the men's and women's teams showing off their strengths. Ream won the 200-fly with a time of 2:11.24 and finished third in the 500 with a time of 5:13.24. Madeline Parra '09 finished third in the 200-fly with a time of 2:11.90, registering a season-best time for Parra. This was a great improvement after her off-season surgery. Parra also finished fourth in the 100-fly with a time of 1:01.78. In addition, Courtney Sanders '11 finished third in the 50 at 25.02 and second in the 100-free at 54.05. Jessica Totten '09 finished fourth in the 50-free with a time of 26.00. Also, Jessica Delgehausen '11 won the 1000-free and 500-free. Anna Stringfield '11 won the 200-free, and Emily Castle '11 won the 100-fly. In the diving portion, Stephannie McKinney won both the one and three-meter events with scores of 208.51 and 203.56. The Davidson women's team did a fantastic job. "This win illustrates the improvement in the program over the last four years," Ream said. "We really came together as a team on Saturday and swam for each other."

The men's team achieved similar success. Peele '09 won the 1000-free with a time of 9:51.99, the 500-free at 4:48.47, and placed third in the 200-free at 1:46.53. Scott Frantz '09 won the 100-backstroke at 52.40 and registered third in the 100-free at 48.74. Also in the 100-free, Andrew Carlson '09 scored second providing for a Davidson 1-2-3 finish in the event. Aside from the senior wins, Curtis Chaney '12, Patrick Whitman '11, Geoff Peitz '12, Miller Williams '10, and Ben Lane '11 all registered individual wins. "This meet was a launch pad for everyone," Peele said. "For the seniors, it was a tremendous farewell, but as a team, we know we have the most important part ahead of us." Davidson will host VMI on Wednesday before heading to Athens, Ga for the CCSA Championships.