12 Cats snap UNCG’s 33-game SoCon unbeaten streak on Connor’s late goal

JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

After a shaky September road trip, the women’s soccer program proved its full potential with some October magic over the weekend. By defeating perennial powerhouse UNC-Greensboro on Friday night, the team whipped up the confidence to ice off a hot Elon team on Sunday.

Before Friday night’s skirmish, the UNC-Greensboro Spartans had not lost a regular season conference matchup in 33 games. That amounts to three years of dominating the SoCon. The struggling ’Cats, on the other hand, were coming off five road losses and an 0-2 conference start. Strutting into Alumni Stadium, the Spartans must have predicted quick work of Davidson. Their expectations were quickly dashed.

The first half descended into a drudge match, the teams were even in every column of the stat sheet. While UNC-G may have held the advantage in pure shooting ability, the 'Cats made up for it with smart possession and coordinating team composure. Despite a couple of scares, they concluded the half drawn nil-nil.

Building confidence over the course of the first half, the 'Cats were poised to strike in the second. And they waged their attack with a fury. Just two minutes in, an errant ball found itself rolling around the Spartans’ 18-yard box. After the defense misread the clear, Courtney Hart ’10 snagged the ball and pelted it toward the near post. A baffled UNC-G defense could not react.

Davidson slipped back into a defensive slouch for the next 10 minutes, staking out positions deep.

See UNCG, page 10

Field hockey halts skid, starts winning streak

ANNA STOCKAMORE
Staff Writer

Davidson field hockey defeated UC Davis Thursday night 4-2, ending their seven-game losing streak. Coach Ginny Sutton commented, “Our offensive attack was great tonight. They moved the ball around very well. It’s very good to have four different goal scorers coming through.”

The first two goals in the first half came from ’Cats’ Jennie Mostellar ’11 and Christine Rua ’12, with her fifth goal of the season. Davidson took control of the second half, scoring the next two goals of the game a little after the halfway point. Courtney Tobe ’11 scored the first point, followed shortly by Brit Donaldson ’13 for her first career goal.

UC Davis attempted a comeback with two goals scored late in the second half by Ashley Haight and Nadia Namdari. Coach Sutton was complimentary of the team effort and hopes the win will give the team added confidence in the upcoming conference games.

With composure gained from their win over UC Davis, the ’Cats soundly defeated Catawba 7-0 on Saturday, Oct. 3 at home on the Belk Turf Field. Catawba was unable to make a single shot throughout the match, while Davidson had 42 shots, 21 of which were on goal. The win was a definite team effort with 6 out of the 7 goals scored by different team members.

Hannah English ’12 opened the scoring in the 15th minute of the match and then added a second goal to the scoreboard only five minutes later. Clare Perry ’11 scored the third goal, followed by a goal by Finley Amato ’13 to close the first half at 4-0. Donaldson scored the first goal of the second half. The final two goals of the match were scored with under five minutes.Left in the game by Gray Robinson ’12 and Donaldson. With the victories, the Wildcats improved their record to 4-8 and 1-2 in the NorPac. Next weekend, Davidson will travel to Richmond, Virginia to play Saint Louis on Saturday and then Virginia Commonwealth on Sunday. Both games will start at 1 p.m.

Wildcats rally past Charleston in overtime, begin SoCon play 2-0

ZACH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

After an impressive start, Davidson men’s soccer has not let up. Last week, Davidson opened conference play against the College of Charleston on Wednesday night at Alumni Stadium. Despite a slow start, Davidson rallied back to win their conference opener in overtime by a score of 3-2. Davidson continued conference play on Saturday in Statesboro, GA against Georgia Southern, blanking them by a score of 3-0 to improve to 8-1 on the season. This season, Davidson has been nothing short of incredible, extending their win streak to six games and their record to 8-1.

To kick things off on Wednesday night, College of Charleston made an offensive statement, showing Davidson early that winning their conference opener would be no easy task. At the 18:24 mark, College of Charleston took the lead. Zach Prince slid the ball into the far left post when Chip Sanders ’12 came out to challenge him to put CofC up 1-0. The Cougars struck again soon after when they fired a ball in past Sanders right outside of the 18-yard box. Going into the half, things looked grim for Davidson as College of Charleston led 2-0.

Davidson needed to increase the offensive pressure in the second half if they wanted to beat CofC. The tension mounted and things did not look good for Davidson until there were 20 minutes remaining. Davidson finally capitalized on their fifth corner kick of the game when Charlie Reiter ’10 passed the ball from the far corner to Allen Page ’12 who headed it in to put Davidson on the board and down by a score of 2-1. Less than one minute later, Davidson fiercely drove down the field to score again and knot the match up at 2-2. Yannick Pilgrim ’11 drove the ball down the right side of the field and crossed the ball to a streaking Reiter who powered the ball into the upper right corner of the net. Regulation would end in a tie, sending the match to overtime.

In overtime, Machel Turner ’10 was fouled inside the box, giving Alex Caskey ’11 a penalty kick opportunity. Caskey fired the ball in his usual clutch fashion, putting Davidson up 3-2 and giving them the come-from-behind win. This was Caskey’s third penalty kick conversion and second game-winner of the season.

Although Wednesday was a...

See Soccer, page 10

Photo by Tripp Bartholomew... Charlie Reiter ’10 prepares to take a free kick during the win over CofC. Reiter earned SoCon Player of the Week honors after tallying five points in the team’s two conference victories last week.

Yannick Pilgrim ’11
Men’s Soccer
ARIMA, TRINIDAD & TOBAGO

The junior forward scored three goals on the week including two goals in the Wildcats’ victory over No. 6 Duke on Tuesday night at Alumni Stadium. Pilgrim is now tied for the team lead with seven goals on the season. College of Charleston and Davidson were deadlocked 2-2 at the end of regulation, but Machel Turner ’10 was taken down in the box less than three minutes into the overtime period. Alex Caskey ’11 converted the penalty kick as the Wildcats, who trailed 2-0 at halftime, completed the comeback.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Caskey’s overtime penalty kick completes comeback.