12 Wildcats fall short in upset bid as #10 Butler pulls away late

Ray Francis
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats officially began the post-Stephen Curry era on Saturday, putting up a mighty struggle before falling on the
road to No. 10 Butler 73-62. The Wildcats' balanced offensive attack was led by post player Ben Allison ’12, who
poured in a career-high 13 points and hauled in seven rebounds. Point guard Brendan McKillop ’11 added 11 points on
3-6 shooting from beyond the arc to go with five rebounds and three assists. Steve Rossiter ’10 and JP Kuhlman
’13 each scored nine (Kuhlman also had a game-high six assists), and Jake Cohen ’13 produced eight points.

McKillop and Kuhlman drilled three-pointers to cap a 10-2 run and gave Davidson a 58-56 advantage with nine minutes to
play in the game. The Wildcats proceeded to go on a seven-minute scoring drought, however, and by the time Kuhlman
canned a jumper with two minutes to play, the Wildcats were already down 68-60 and on their way to defeat.

Playing in his first collegiate game, JP Kuhlman ’13 added nine points off the bench and led the team with
six assists in the Wildcats’ 72-63 loss to #10 Butler on Saturday afternoon. Davidson burst out of the gate and
took command early, using a 15-4 run to claim a 20-10 lead halfway through the first half. McKillop ignited the
spurt with consecutive triples, and Will Archambault...

See Butler, page 11

Women’s basketball drops two games on season-opening trip to Nebraska

Zachary Zimmerman
Staff Writer

Davidson women’s basketball opened their season on Friday night in Lincoln, Nebraska against the University of Nebraska Cornhuskers. Davidson fell
86-62 but showed many positives against a strong Nebraska squad. Davidson continued its season against Creighton on Sunday at the
D.J. Sokol Arena in Omaha, Nebraska, dropping their second game of the season 77-58. Julie Paquette ’10 would not let
Davidson go down without a fight though and registered a double-double.

On Friday night, Davidson came out to play. The scoreboard does not do the Wildcats justice as four of the
Davidson squad finished in double figures. Alex Thompson ’10 led all scoring with 15 points on six-of-nine shooting, and Monica
Laune ’10 had 10 points and four steals. In addition, two freshmen also finished in double figures. Barbara Sitton ’13
scored 13 points on five-of-11 shooting along with four steals and four assists. Sophia Aleksandravicius ’13 also registered double figures.

Nebraska only outscored Davidson 40-36 in the second half but got off to an early start, leading Davidson by 20
at the half. Davidson battled back all game from as much as 35 points down but could not get it
close enough. Nebraska shot 45.6 percent from the field while Davidson shot a close 40.7 percent. Nebraska’s total team effort
proved too much for Davidson as eight of Nebraska’s players had at least seven points.

Sunday afternoon was much of the same, and Davidson lost another tough match. Creighton’s ferocious three-point shooting kept Davidson out
of contention as the Blue Jays nailed 15 shots from downtown with a 50 percent three-point percentage. Julie Paquette ’10
left everything out on the court on Sunday, scoring 13 points and registering a career-high 14 rebounds with a double-double.
Paquette converted on an and-one play to bring Davidson within 10 with 12...Minutes left to play in the second half,
but Creighton rallied back to finish strong for their second win of the season (2-0). While Davidson shot 45 percent
from the field compared to Creighton’s 42 percent and even led the rebound battle, the loss rested in the turnover
difference as Davidson had 27 turnovers to Creighton’s 16. Davidson fell to (0-2) on the season and faces off at
N.C. State on Friday at 7 p.m. against the Wolfpack (1-1).

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2009

#8 Gamecocks finally tame ’Cats in NCAA Tournament
JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

Even before last Friday’s game, the dynamics of the season had changed. After winning the SoCon Tournament and advancing to
the program’s first NCAA Tournament, it was all about fun — the icing on the cake of a sweet season.
And though the team fell 4-0 to 2-seed South Carolina, the legacy of this team won’t be shut out anytime
soon.

The Gamecocks entered the NCAA tournament as champions of the SEC, one of the perennial powerhouses in women’s soccer. The
Cats had just blown away everyone with their first SoCon championship in 13 years, and for the program, that win
against Charleston was worth the whole season. But in the first half, Davidson still came out on fire, showing they
could hang with the feisty Cocks as equals. For the throng of Wildcat faithful in the stands, the opening minutes
offered plenty to shout about.

Though the home team dominated in shooting, 11 to 1, the ’Cats owned a solid amount of possession, working the
ball down for a few offensive strikes. Two Allison Drutchas ’11 corner kicks offered the most thrilling chances for a
Davidson score, but the forwards couldn’t find clear shots at the net. After South Carolina snagged its first goal of
the game in the 30th minute off an unstoppable shot from outside the box, both Davidson fans and players braced
for the onslaught. But for the next 20 minutes, at least, it never came. Much credit is due to keeper
Jessie Baxa ’12, who posted a slew of six saves in the half. As the first buzzer sounded, the ’Cats
held tight down 1-0.

Within a few fleeting minutes of the second half, the Cocks’ competitive edge came out in full force. With the
Davidson D halting their advances at the box, they ripped impressive shots from 30 yards out. Between minutes 52 and
56, South Carolina notched 3 goals to put the game away. Even in those trying moments, the ’Cats looked like
they were playing the game with passion. Down a daunting tally of goals, they maintained the tenacity and intensity of
the first 10 minutes and gave the crowd a show for all it was worth. In doing so, Davidson earned
the program a load of respect from one of the country’s top teams.

At the closing whistle, the players had no reason to complain. It was a hard-fought game, for sure, but it
merely capped off the hardest fought season of their careers.

See Soccer, page 10

Bartholomew Courtney, Hart ’10, and the Wildcats made the program’s NCAA tournament debut against #8 South Carolina in front of
a record crowd of 3,813 at the Gamecocks’ Stone Stadium Friday night.

With 5:10 remaining in the first half of the Wildcats game at #10 Butler on Saturday, forward Ben Allison ’12
followed up a missed shot by teammate JP Kuhlman ’13 with a one-handed dunk tip back to give the ’Cats
a 26-18 lead in the first half. Allison finished the game with seven rebounds and a career-high 13 points.

PLAY OF THE WEEK
Allison’s rebound dunk highlights career day
