THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

‘Wildcats continue to struggle in SoCon

ZACHARY ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson men’s tennis team continued their losing streak, dropping three matches this week. On Wednesday, Davidson took on No. 66
Elon and was shut out 7-0 in Knobloch Tennis Center. Hoping to turn things around during the weekend, Davidson lost
to College of Charleston 5-2 on Saturday and then dropped another road match to Georgia Southern on Sunday by a
score of 6-1.

Davidson began Wednesday facing their third ranked opponent of the season. Elon proved why they deserve to be one of
the top 75 teams in the NCAA. Elon got off to a killer start, winning all three doubles matches and
seizing the doubles point. Eric Noble ’10 at the number one spot, Scott Myers ’09 at the number three spot,
and Arie Hefter ’11 at the number five spot all netted six or more victories in two sets of singles
play despite falling to the ferocious play of Elon.

To kick off the road trip, Davidson matched up against the College of Charleston on Saturday. After dropping the doubles
point by losing two of the three matches, Davidson also struggled in singles play, only capturing two of the six
singles matches. Calum Gee ’12 won his singles match in straight sets by a score of 6-4, 6-4 at the
number four spot, registering his eighth singles win on the year. Gee is tied with Myers with a team-high eight
game win tally for the season. Overcoming a loss in the first set, Walker Lyons ’11 netted a comeback victory
in three sets ending in a super tiebreaker by a score of 3-6, 6-3, and 10-8. This win gave Lyons
his sixth on the season. Despite these strong performances, Davidson fell 5-2.

On Sunday, Davidson traveled to Statesboro, GA. Georgia Southern also proved to be a strong adversary as Davidson only captured
one singles win. Lyons won in tiebreaker fashion once again by a score of 1-6, 7-5, and 10-5, raising his
season total wins to seven and extending his streak to two matches. Davidson fell to 5-13 overall and 1-6 in
the Southern Conference. Davidson hosts Wofford at 3 p.m. today, looking to get back on track this week with home
matches against Wofford and Charlotte. The ’Cats have dropped six in a row.

Navy blows past ’Cats in second half

JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

The women’s lacrosse team rode into the heart of the lacrosse nation — Annapolis, MD — on Saturday to play
the Navy Midshipmen. Following this year’s unfortunate pattern, the ’Cats held tightly in the first half, but couldn’t withstand their
opponents in the second. For the first 30-minute period, the game fell into an intense bout of back-and-forth scoring. Navy
got things started, only to face a response by Jenna Mugele ’12 in the third minute, assisted by Jen Crawford
’10. After a four-minute span with two Navy goals, Crawford notched a score of her own. Callie Seymour ’09 and
Mugele knocked in Davidson’s other two first-half goals, the latter again receiving the assist from Crawford. With 41 seconds on
the clock, Navy made their final point of the period to bring the teams into the locker room.

---

Having Fun and Children’s Services Ambassadors - From summer camp to parents' night out, we are looking for high-energy, creative,
dedicated staff who love working with young people to join us for the summer. Help shape the great summer memories
of our youth and make some of your own. Enjoy working hand-in-hand through daily activities while looking out for the
welfare of our participants. Call Becky Taylor at: 704-766-2222, email: rtaylor@hffa.com

Making a Difference!

Lifeguards - Join our team of aquatics enthusiasts who are dedicated to providing a safe and exciting aquatic experience for
our members of all ages and experience levels. Become a Lifeguard at HFFA and find a rewarding opportunity with a
flexible schedule! Not certified? Sign up today for our May certification classes and learn a skill that will last you
a lifetime. Space is limited. Call Ann at 704-766-2222 or visit us online at www.hffa.com. 11725 Verhoeff Drive, Huntersville, NC.with
the ’Cats down 4-6. The second half brought a three-goal sweep of Navy scoring as the visiting squad fell into
another fatigue-induced slump. With the game seemingly out of reach at 4-9, Anna Smith ’12 took the game into her
own hands during the middle of the half, netting her first points of the afternoon. Inside the 10-minute mark, however,
the Midshipmen turned up the gears and tallied four more scores to put the match away 11-6. In terms of
shot attempts, Navy maintained only a slight advantage throughout the game, taking 12 shots to Davidson’s nine in each half.
The ’Cats displayed a sense of efficiency, as both players with a pair of goals, Mugele and Smith, worked their
magic with only three shots apiece. In goal, Michelle Pav ’10 kept her composure with four saves per period. Second-half
ground balls again plagued the Wildcats, who began to lose control of possession as the game progressed. Navy led the
first-half margin 11-9 but dominated the second period with nine pickups to Davidson’s four. Contributing to the Davidson fatigue, the
Midshipmen refused to cease their aggression as they committed an extraordinary 23 fouls over the course of the game. The
game left the ’Cats beaten and battered. With only one contest left in this swing of road games — American
University on Apr. 12 — the ’Cats will enjoy the prospect of returning home for games next week against Stanford
and Duke. The team will continue to face stiff competition over the next few matches, but even in its current
losing streak, Davidson continues to show signs of improvement. As last weekend’s games illustrate, the freshmen have begun to integrate
themselves into the offense, enabling the team to widen its opportunities despite a lack of depth. Each game’s stat book
highlights a different player’s performance, and if they all click at the same time, results will follow. If the ’Cats
can just hold on in the second half, future games’ scores will inevitably start to even out.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2009

Women’s tennis gets back on track after win against Mountaineers

ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

The women’s tennis team hosted two home matches last Wednesday and Friday to begin their April homestretch. On Wednesday, the
Wildcats lost a tough decision to UNC-Greensboro 5-2. For the doubles competition, Ali Gores ’10 and Molly McDevitt ’12 won
their respective No. 3 spot, 8-6. The No. 1 seeded pair of Virginia Berry ’10 and Michele Fanney ’09 played
tough but ended up losing their decision to the Spartans in a tiebreaker situation, 9-8. UNC-G won 5-2 on the
singles side, but Berry and Samantha Galainena ’11 each won their respective competitions. Two days later, on Friday, the Wildcats
hosted cross-county rivals, UNC-Charlotte. The 49ers took a 4-3 decision over Davidson. Singles winners for the day were Berry, Gores,
and McDevitt at the No. 2, No. 4, and No. 5 spots. Berry’s win was her ninth of her past
10 matches, while Gores and McDevitt each tallied their eighth individual wins of the season. The Wildcats got back on
the winning side, trouncing the Appalachian State Mountaineers 7-0 on Tuesday to move their record to 10-10 overall and 5-3
in conference play.

Baseball vs. The Citadel. Fri. at 7:00, Sat. at 2:00, Sun at 1:00 Wilson Field

The Wildcats and Bulldogs meet in an important Southern Conference match-up at Wilson Field. Both teams enter the contest 7-5
in SoCon play. The Citadel swept last year’s three-game series from the ’Cats. Matt Webb ’09 leads the Davidson pitching
staff with a 2.42 ERA to go along with a 2-0 record and three saves.

Outside the Den

Masters

The Masters Wed. - Fri. on ESPN Sat. & Sun. on CBS

Defending champion Trevor Immelman looks to hold off a field that includes last year’s runner-up Tiger Woods who is returning
from a knee injury that cost him most of last year. Woods has won the event four times, most recently
in 2005, and is coming off a tournament victory at the Arnold Palmer Invitational two weeks ago.
