6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Health, from page 5

Detox rids the body of toxins and poisons that accumulate naturally. Latendress based her presentation loosely on the topic of detox and stressed the importance of a balanced pH. She claims pH imbalance can cause cancer, diabetes, and other illnesses. An acidic pH within the body may deplete bones and cause osteoporosis or multiple sclerosis. Of course, a solid neutral pH of seven is ideal, but unattainable, except at birth. To achieve a pH close to neutral, you should limit animal protein, candy, soda, liquor, caffeine, wheat products, pineapple, citrus fruit, and sugar. Latendress recommends monitoring your pH before and after every meal using litmus paper. You can test your saliva, but urine works best. During the presentation, Latendress invited the audience to test their own pH. My litmus paper turned an unrecognizable color. Striving for a stable pH involves careful attention to your diet, as well as a hefty investment in litmus paper. If you choose to take Latendress’ advice, remember to make nutritional health your top priority. For more information on the importance of a balanced pH, Latendress recommends “Alkalize or Die” by Theodore A. Baroody.

Latendress did not confine her talk to pH or detoxification. Due to the recent swine flu epidemic, she also listed several strict rules to maintain general health:
- To eliminate the risk of E. coli and other bacteria when cooking ground meat: add one capsule of vitamin E to every pound of meat cooked.
- Never wash vegetables or fruit with soap, as the soap residue will not rinse off. Instead, spray vegetables and fruit with peroxide.
- Peel tomatoes before you eat them. Tomato skins are rife with bacteria.
- Avoid eating out.
- Put pH drops in coffee and soda to neutralize the beverage.
- Cook in a cast iron pot to increase iron intake. Also, never use Teflon cookware, it is toxic.
- Do not use margarine. “You might as well eat a plastic dish,” said Latendress.
- Drink water mixed with ½ tsp sea salt and ¼ tsp vinegar once daily.
- Mix baking soda and Bragg's Apple cider for a great detox foot bath.
- Vary your diet. Don’t eat the same foods every day. Better yet, make sure you try new foods!

Arts & LIVING
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2009

Cook’s Corner: Stuffed Bell Peppers
ELLEN VISER
Staff Writer

Although summer has passed, you can still take advantage of the last few weeks of beautiful vegetables with this stuffed pepper recipe. It’s a complete, hearty meal and incredibly easy to prepare.

Ingredients
2 medium bell peppers
½ lb ground beef
1 cup uncooked rice
1 ½ cups water or chicken broth
2 tomatoes, diced
1 tsp dried basil
2 tbsp breadcrumbs
1/3 cup + 2 tbsp parmesan cheese, grated
salt and pepper, to taste

Directions
1. Preheat oven to 350. Brown the ground beef in a stovetop skillet and set aside.
2. In a saucepan heat 1 cup water (or chicken broth), and add rice while the water is simmering. Stir frequently and add more liquid when the rice begins to get dry. Continue adding water or broth slowly until rice is tender, but not fully cooked (it will continue to cook in the oven).
3. Add beef, tomatoes, basil, salt, and pepper. Cook until thoroughly heated and stir in 1/3 cup parmesan cheese until melted. Turn heat off.
4. Cut the tops off the peppers and remove any seeds or fibers. Stuff rice mixture evenly into each pepper and top each pepper with remaining cheese and breadcrumbs.
5. Place peppers upright in a shallow pan with a cup of water poured around (not on top of!) peppers, to prevent burning. Cook in preheated oven until tender, about 30-40 minutes. Serves 2.

courtesy photo

Campus wildlife causes fear, joy, awe
JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Arts & Living Editor

Due to its abundance of green space and tree growth, Davidson’s campus is teeming with wildlife. Whether on the cross-country trails or trekking around Sophomore Apartments, animal sightings are commonplace. Read on for information regarding our furry neighbors.Groundhogs, also known as woodchucks, belong to a family of rodents known as marmots. They can grow to be 25 inches in length and weigh up to 9 pounds. In the wild, their lifespan runs an average of 5 years, though one famous groundhog, Wiarton Willie, reached the ripe age of 22. Davidson’s groundhog, affectionately referred to by many as “Murphy,” lurks around Commons and the Outpost. A Murphy sighting can cause quite a stir. Louisa Wall ’11 is an amateur groundhog tracker. “It’s always a nice surprise to see the groundhog,” she said. “It truly makes my day. I especially enjoy taking pictures of him; he’s extremely photogenic. And, I don’t know if anyone knows this, but he’s quite sturdy...yet agile.” Wall yearns to pet the elusive Murphy at least once before she graduates. A diet of grass and berries satisfies most groundhogs, though Murphy also loves to munch on leftover quesadillas every Friday and Saturday night. He also enjoys leaping over empty beer cans, as this activity keeps him physically fit.

Striped Skunk (Mephitis mephitis)

More nuisance than cute distraction, the campus skunk calls Sophomore Apartments his home, though he meanders around all of Patterson Court. Skunks tend to be about the same size as groundhogs, though their diet consists of mice, bugs, and some plant life. Most associate skunks with their characteristically bad smell. Skunks spray when they feel threatened by another animal (or student). Thus, encounters should be kept at a distance. They also have terrible vision. Davidson’s skunk usually wanders around aimlessly for several hours, occasionally running into tree stumps in his blind stupor. Interestingly enough, skunks can be kept as domesticated pets, though the 2006 Animal Welfare Act makes it illegal to remove their scent glands. Thus, the popularity of pet skunks has fallen in recent years.

Raccoon (Procyon lotor)

Students also have seen a raccoon around Senior Apartments. The largest of Davidson’s inner-campus wildlife, adult raccoons can be anywhere from 16 to 28 inches in length and reach a weight of up to 20 pounds. They usually come out at night to forage for food in trash cans; they eat an omnivorous diet of bugs and plants, though rarely turn away any type of food. Rodney, the Ryburn raccoon, has occasional moments of aggression. “Rodney and I first met last Sunday when he wished to sample my Bonsai General Tso’s chicken,” said Reade Jacob ’10. “I tried to take a picture of him but he wished not to be photographed. We are still friends.” Although Rodney shies away from the spotlight, other raccoons have been featured in movies and television shows. A Canadian-produced show called “The Raccoons” (1985-1992) allowed raccoons to enter the homes of millions in a friendly and non-obtrusive way.

The next time you are walking around campus, keep an eye open for some of our favorite furry friends. Remember though, this is their home, too, and they deserve our respect. If you choose to disrespect these critters or their family members, watch out! Groundhogs, skunks, and raccoons can turn vicious.

Note: All the animal facts in this article came from Wikipedia.

Punch Brothers featuring Chris Thile: Grammy-nominated act kicks off 2009-10 Smith Artist Series, Duke Family Performance Hall, 8 p.m.

Math Movie Night: “Hard Problems” Chambers 3155, 6:45 p.m.

Chemistry Colloquium: “Human Health and the Environment” Lobby of Martin Building, 2 p.m.

Auditions for “The Nuances,” Davidson’s new co-ed a cappella ensemble, 2 p.m.

“Trash Talk: The Why & How of Sustainable Waste Disposal” Union, Rm. 302, 4 p.m.

12th Annual Davidson Reads: Brenda Flanagan and Sheri Reynolds ’89 DCPC, 7:30 p.m.

Live Thursdays: Outpost Trivia Night, 11 p.m.

Taylor Hogan, Wade Morgan, and Sarah Thornton 900 Rm., Outpost, 8:30 p.m.

Wed. 9/30
Sunny, High of 73°: Visit Lake Campus while you still can...

Thur. 10/1

Fri. 10/2

Sat. 10/3

Sun. 10/4

Mon. 10/5

Tue. 10/6