Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN

KELSEY LILLEY News Editor

Two people, ten ingredients, one hour, one goal: to create a delicious dish of international cuisine for the Davidson International
Association’s first-ever cooking contest. On May 2 at 5 p.m., teams of two will compete to wow three judges in
the creation of an international dish featuring either chicken or tofu. The teams have nine remaining ingredients of their choice,
not including basics such as water, salt, vinegar, and oil.

“Take a dish from somewhere else—use that, or make it your own,” DIA President Maria Jose Mejia ’09 said.

After the idea for a cooking contest came out of a DIA E-board meeting, DIA teamed up with Commons Executive
Chef Craig Mombert to work out the details. “[Chef Mombert] was really helpful in actually giving it a forum,” Mejia
said. “We wanted to have a contest, but we had no experience with what that entails. [He was] helpful with
how the set-up would go and making it happen in general.”

“We talked about [the students cooking] something maybe from their native land—something that they hadn’t seen here but staying with
the 10 ingredients,” Chef Mombert said. “If you’ve wanted to learn how to cook for your boyfriend or girlfriend, here’s
the chance to do it,” he jokingly added.

Each team will compete on the outside patio of Vail Commons. They will be provided with a stove, a cutting
board, and utensils and will vie to win the most points from the three judges. Points will be awarded based
on presentation, cleanliness, creativity with the 10 ingredients, etc.

News | DIA hosts tasty campus competition

Students enjoy a Latin American dinner sponsored by OLAS Monday. Student cooks specializing in international cuisine of all kinds will
have the opportunity to show their talents at the DIA International Cooking Competition at 5 p.m. on May 2.

“We came up with a point system based on competitions I’d done and my staff has done,” Chef Mombert, one
of the three judges, said.

A brief safety and information session will be held prior to the event to prevent accidents, but Mejia stressed that
the time commitment for the event is only two hours on the day of the competition.

“Sometimes you need a reason to explore a little more, so you would be forced to look into what international
cuisine is like,” Mejia said. “It’s a space and chance to be creative—only one ingredient is chosen for you.”

Although 20 participants initially signed up for the contest, many have since backed out, leaving plenty of open spaces for
students, faculty, and staff who still want to compete. For more information, or to submit your recipes, please contact mamejia@davidson.edu.

“[The goal is] having a fun time with someone else,” Mejia said, “and hopefully getting involved with DIA in the
future.”

ITS plans new intranet: Inside Davidson

JESSE JOHNSON Staff Writer

In the near future, students, faculty, and staff will see important changes in the Davidson website and internet.

“The new web-based resource will streamline internal campus communications and services in one central, easy to use and find location,”
Mur Muchane, director of ITS, stated. He explained that the new system, which will be called Inside Davidson, was designed
with several objectives in mind, among which are the need to reduce the number of campus announcement emails community members
receive and to provide online collaboration tools such as document sharing, bulletin boards, threaded discussions.sions and blogs. Muchane explained that
the new system will also promote and support campus sustainability initiatives by reducing the use of paper, making more information
accessible and workable online. The current college website is targeted at two audiences: an external audience, including prospective students and
alumni; and an internal one, which consists of students and staff. There are few ways students can interact with the
current website; the site now is more focused on the needs and interests of prospective students. In response, human resources,
Information Technology Services (ITS) and numerous campus offices, including College Relations and Communications, Finance and others, have worked together to
create a next generation of websites for Davidson. “We see this as a partnership of many offices around campus,” Muchane
said.

Invest a year. Get a career’s worth of returns.
roasters.cs.uchicago.edu
An intensive, one-year Master’s program, designed to accommodate students with little or no previous experience or coursework in Computer Science,
the CSPP provides an up-close, in-depth perspective of the current art and practice of computing. With a focus on computer
science fundamentals and the requirements of business today, the CSPP provides the instruction and training essential to harnessing new technologies
and putting them to use in real-world environments.

Computer Science Professional Program

Stacey Schmeidel, director of College Communications, stated that two different websites are in the works. One will be directed toward
students, the other toward faculty and staff. Muchane explained that the new system will separate public and private information to
make the website easier to navigate for both parties. The new changes will make daily life on campus easier as
well. Muchane pointed out that online tools will soon be able to replace formerly manual processes. For example, students who
once had to fill out a form to rent a van and then walk to the Physical Plant to drop
off the form will eventually be able to submit the request online. Also, students can complete the study abroad application
process with more ease online.

The changes were initiated because of how cumbersome the current site is, especially for students. The website for faculty and
staff, which will facilitate the sharing of administrative reports, budgets and other documents, will provide an easier way for Davidson
staff to communicate. After outgoing SGA president Davis Greene ’09 talked to students to get their perspective, the creators of
the website had a better idea of what required change. Eventually, Schmeidel stated, they hope to plan focus groups, work
with the Union Board, and ask randomly selected students for their input on what can be done to improve the
Davidson website. “Over time, the use and range of content available on Inside Davidson will grow,” said Muchane.

These ideas have been under consideration for several years, but as Schmeidel stated, “It’s kind of never done.” By the
end of this semester, faculty and staff can look forward to a new website and intranet. Students can expect to
see a new web system in the coming year, one that will make people’s lives easier; or, as Schmeidel described
it, as one centralized source.

The second Thomson Distinguished Visit for environmental racism and the environment will teach at Davidson next year. Davidson: several of
this year’s road. This led to a great deal of publicity better than their impact on the world through our
daily consumption on campus.
