4 Tue DAVIDSONIAN

CAROLINE WOOD
News Editrix

On Wednesday, September 9, award-winning journalist Robin Wright will visit Davidson to address the campus on Middle Eastern diplomacy and
local developments in Iran, where she has been reporting for almost four decades.

A diplomatic correspondent for The Washington Post and a U.S. Peace Institute fellow, Wright has been a featured reporter with
a number of magazines, daily papers, and media corporations, including The New York Times, The Huffington Post, and The International
Herald Tribune.

In 2004, she was named Journalist of the Year by the American Academy of Diplomacy, a prestigious Washington, D.C.-based non-profit
“dedicated to strengthening the resources and tools America brings to managing its diplomatic challenges.” In addition to receiving a MacArthur
Foundation genius grant, Wright has been publicly honored by the United Nations, The New Yorker, and the Overseas Press Club.

Wright is the author of five books on International Relations, including “Sacred Rage: The Wrath of Militant Islam” (2001) and
“In the Name of God: The Khomeini Decade” (1989). She will be signing her most recent work, “Dreams and Shadows:
The Future of the Middle East,” published by Penguin Press in 2008, after Wednesday’s lecture. New York Times reviewer Patrick
Cockburn called Wright “one of the best-informed American journalists covering the Middle East,” adding that “Dreams and Shadows” is “refreshingly
skeptical of conventional wisdom about what is happening in the region... essential reading for anyone who wants to know where
it is heading.”

Wright will address the Davidson College community on “Turmoil in Iran: What’s Next? Local Developments and Global Consequences.” The lecture,
which will be held in Duke Family Performance Hall at 8:00 p.m., is free and open to the public.

Theatre, from page 1

... a wide variety of film series from sports to developing arts, from classics to feel-good films.

Our Town Cinemas will likely boost the town’s economy, a highly desirable benefit in the midst of a struggling economy.
The theater hopes to form business alliances with members of the community in an effort to help strengthen and promote
the local economy. Curtis Fainn, the cinema company’s owner, promises to make every effort to use local labor and purchase
the theater’s décor from local or regional companies. Kane stated that she believes this has the potential to be a
good idea, but hopes that this decision won't affect movie ticket prices.

At this point in time, developers estimate the cost of preparing the 9,750 square foot space that used to be
a CVS pharmacy and a pizza parlor at $273,000. Despite initial trouble obtaining financing, the cinema has agreed to work
with BB&T to raise the money. If cinema construction goes according to plan, Our Town could open as soon as
winter break.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2009

New and old students alike attended the Activities Fair last Thursday on Chambers Lawn.

The entire community: The vaccine will be offered free at a number of campus locations. Dean Shandley reminded students that
their regular seasonal flu shots, which will be available shortly, should be obtained as soon as possible in order to
continue the semester in good health.

08/29/2009 15:30 hrs Library

Officer was contacted via officer duty cell phone by a Davidson College student working at the front desk of E.H.
Little Library. The student stated that between 15:10 hrs and 15:15 hrs, an unknown female, wearing a hat, gray/brown checkered
dress, tall, extremely thin, hollowed sunken face with very light skin complexion, curly hair, interracial (black/white), in her late 20’s
early 30’s, came into the library. He stated that the unknown female seemed disoriented and thought the campus police were
“out to get her.” The female signed into the log book, immediately left, then came back in to explain why
she had written the following into the log book: “do not contact, reason: housing vicinity 6yrs inappropriate.” Mr. Sayed stated
that the female included she was in an acting troupe from New York and later asked for a library survey.
The student explained to the female that the library did not administer surveys and then he observed the female exit
the library.

08/29/2009 22:23 hrs Baker Dr.

Officer while on routine patrol observed a vehicle fail to stop for a stop sign located at the intersection of
Baker Dr. and Patterson Ct. Cir. Reporting officer conducted a traffic stop on the silver Jeep Grand Cherokee on Patterson
Ct. Cir. near Tomlinson Dormitory. Reporting officer issued the driver, a Davidson College student, a verbal warning. No further police
action was taken.

08/30/2009 00:00 hrs Martin Ct. F

Officers observed a male and female running totally nude across the courtyard of Martin Court-F. Officers gave chase, and the
officer apprehended a Davidson student at the southeast corner of the building. The other officer cut through the center of
the building, apprehending one student at the northwest corner of the building. She stated that she had to run nude
because she had to make good on a bet she lost.

08/30/2009 17:55 hrs Little Dorm

Officer conducted a campus safety meeting on the second floor of Little Dorm. Topics of discussion were domestic violence, cyber
stalking, identity theft, parking rules and regulations, driving on campus to include speeding and reckless behavior, and the need to
lock doors and keep valuables with the individual student. Officer Agan answered all posed questions. There were 21 students in
attendance.

09/01/2009 02:30 Belk Dorm

Officer conducted foot patrol around the perimeter of Belk Dorm to Hart Building, and from Hart Building to Baker Sports.
While on foot patrol, Officer found and marked 26 non-working lamp posts. The lamp posts were marked with yellow police
tape. While the officer was on foot patrol, no damage or suspicious activity was observed.
