6 Tue DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2009

Commons brings uncommon to lunch with Show

By Carey Leigh Evans
Staff Writer

Last Tuesday, Vail Commons hosted its annual Food Show. Students, faculty, and staff grazed on luscious samples from numerous vendors.
Afterwards, diners wrote their favorites on a large pad of paper in hopes of seeing their requests as regular offerings
in Commons at some point soon. Here are a few opinions on the food served, from both students and Vail
Commons staff.

Katharine Dicconson ‘12
(second row, left)
“I wish Commons could have that variety every day! My favorite food was definitely the jambalaya soup!”

Dee Phillips
Director of Dining Services
(second row, center)
Favorite Food: Calamari Salad

Craig Mombert
Executive Chef
(second row, right)
Favorite Foods: Calamari Salad, Seaweed Salad, and Dim Sum

BT Club promotes awareness

By Amelia Montgomery
Staff Writer

An Anglo ex-mercenary from Rhodesia, a Mende fisherman captured by the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) rebels, and an American journalist
constitute an unlikely group, yet they set out on a mission together in search of a rare and valuable diamond
in the 2006 film “Blood Diamond.” The movie is set against the backdrop of Africa’s political turmoil and was presented
by Building Tomorrow last Thursday night.

“We don’t just want to ask students for their money. Awareness is just as important.”
-Rebecca McQuade ’11

The film is packed with everything the typical American moviegoer could want — thrills, action, and Leonardo DiCaprio. But it
also includes deeper content such as the ways American consumers unknowingly fund bloodshed in Africa by purchasing so-called “conflict diamonds.”
Leonardo DiCaprio’s character, Danny Archer, was even involved in smuggling diamonds that were used to fund rebel forces.

Whitney Suflas '12
(right)
Favorite Foods:
Cakes and Fresh Fruit

The connection between Americans at home and African conflict is further illustrated by the character of Maddy Bowen, played by
Jennifer Connelly. An American investigative journalist, Bowen gathers information that will help her break the story of illegal diamond smuggling
to the American public. When asked by Soloman Vandy, a Mende fisherman played by Djimon Hounsou, if her story will
move Americans to action, Bowen replies with a disappointing and yet provocative “probably not.”

The film, though, addresses issues beyond conflict diamonds and American awareness. Blood Diamond also indirectly makes allusions to the same
problems in Africa that Building Tomorrow, through its efforts to promote education in Uganda and eventually all of sub-Saharan Africa,
seeks to solve.

Dia, Soloman Vandy’s son, represents the importance of education to a sense of well-being. A battle of sorts is waged
over his mind, as the rebel forces attempt to brainwash him while his father strives to educate him.

Like Building Tomorrow, Soloman knows that the foundation for a stable, thriving country lies in the minds of the children.
The Davidson chapter of Building Tomorrow, with the help of the students, has raised two-thirds of the funds necessary to
build a school in Uganda. Through such events as last week’s showing of Blood Diamond, the members of Building Tomorrow
hope to raise awareness of the importance of education. They would like to raise the remaining funds by the end
of this school year.

“We don’t just want to ask students for their money. Awareness is just as important. We want Davidson students to
consider the value of their education, because it’s often taken for granted,” said Rebecca McQuade ’11, Building Tomorrow’s co-President.

If you missed the Blood Diamond showing, don’t worry; Building Tomorrow has plenty up their sleeve for Davidson students this
semester. This Friday they'll be hosting a cookout with burgers, hotdogs, and vegetarian options on Patterson Court lawn. Cat cards
will be taken, but you can also buy tickets in advance at the Alvarez Student Union. For more information on
Building Tomorrow, email Lindsay Kallman.

Nate Geigle '10
Senior on a 14 meal plan
(left)
“The Seaweed Salad was to die for”

NORD SCRAMBLE!

Now, arrange the letters underlined in white to answer the following clue:
A Davidson student’s best online

Wed. 9/23 Thur. 9/24 Mon. 9/28 Tue. 9/29
David Cecelski: Haleh Esfandiari: Michael C. Fitzgerald: “Love in the Archives: Bank of America
BAIN & COMPANY “One Woman's Story Biochemistry Grand Opening: The Search for Abraham Lecture,
Information Session, of Captivity in Iran” Presentation Galloway--Slave Michael A. Levi:
7 p.m. 900 Room, Martin Building, 131 N. Main St., Classical Indian Abolitionist, Union “The Energy Emer-
5:30 p.m. B25, Davidson, Veena Concert Spy” gency: National Secu-
2:30 p.m. 10 a.m. Tyler-Tallman Hall, Hance Auditorium, rity, Climate Change,
Sloan Music Center, 4:30 p.m. and Global Poverty”
Interdisciplinary Film Pres. Ross answers 3:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m.
Panel: “The Matrix” Wells Fargo Securities First Annual “Jam all of your Davidson Pap Ndiaye:
900 Room, Information Session, Thingy” fall fashion ques- “Blackness and Black
7:30 p.m. Sculpture Garden, tions! in France”
7 p.m. 5 p.m. 7:30 p.m.
