im) 10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Curtis Young
Staff Writer

An old basketball adage states that centers dominate the game in high schools, guards rule the college courts, and that
forwards take control in the professional ranks. For years, I have subscribed to this theory and asserted its accuracy in
many sporting arguments. I maintain, in fact, that the adage has held true throughout much of basketball’s existence, at least
with regards to guards dominating the college game.

Let’s look back at the 1990s. UNLV boasted Stacey Augmon at Point Guard during its spectacular run in 1990. Duke
in 1991 and 1992? Bobby Hurley. You may suggest Arizona’s surprising run to the title in 1997. I would counter
with a young Mike Bibby and the veteran Miles Simon. Teams have always needed good guard play, and point guards
often carried teams to championships. Connecticut’s 1999 National Championship was, incredibly, accomplished without a single big man that made a
splash in the pros. With so much evidence during my lifetime, I had always accepted the fact that teams could
win without any significant post presence.

Today’s game, however, has changed to the point where we must alter what we thought we knew about college basketball.
Teams simply cannot win big on the national scene without a consistent presence at the post. When I suggest that
a team cannot win big, I am suggesting that a team has little chance to advance deeply into the NCAA
Tournament. Last season’s Duke team is an excellent example. The Blue Devils ran through the regular season impressively, earning a
number two seed in the tournament. When confronted with a team with far superior size in West Virginia, Duke wilted
against relentless rebounding and tough play.

But wait, didn’t our own Davidson Wildcats come within a Jason Richards ’08 shot of making the Final Four? Didn’t
that entire team ride solely on the shoulders of a spectacular backcourt? Not so fast. Everyone forgets that the Wildcats
stumbled out of the gate while relying too much on the guards. Stephen Curry ’10 and Richards were stellar, but
the emergence of Andrew Lovedale ’09 as a scoring threat really opened the gates wide for that team. Lovedale made
another leap in play during the tournament, and his ability to provide a third scoring option allowed the Wildcats to
make their run. There were, of course, many other factors, but the ability to get easy baskets inside certainly opened
up the perimeter game.

George Mason’s miraculous Final Four run is an even better example. Sure, the Patriots had experienced, talented guards. But big
men Jai Lewis and Will Thomas made that team click. They may have been undersized, but they gave Mason consistent
interior scoring.

I am not suggesting that it will be impossible for teams to win titles without scoring big men, but it
becomes exponentially more difficult. Look at the recent title winners, and I'll show you an NBA-caliber big man: Kansas? Darrell
Arthur. Florida? Al Horford and Joakim Noah. Connecticut? Emeka Okafor. Syracuse? Hakim Warrick. The list goes on. It would be
fairly simple to say that teams need both tremendous play on the perimeter and inside to win a title. I
do not believe that anyone would really argue against that philosophy. But that would be taking the easy way out.

Around Campus
Men’s Basketball vs. No. 21 Butler
Sat. @ 12:00, Belk Arena, ESPN
Davidson welcomes nationally ranked Butler to Belk Arena as part of ESPNU’s Bracketbusters for a match-up of two of college
basketball’s best mid-major programs.

Outside the Den
Women’s Basketball
No. 2 Oklahoma at No. 11 Texas A&M
Mon. @ 7:30, ESPN2
Two of women’s basketball’s best teams take the court in College Station. Oklahoma enters the game undefeated in Big XII
play and are led by Courtney Paris, who averages 15.6 points and 13.6 rebounds a game.

SPORTS

Crawford, ’Cats cruise in season opener
Zach Zimmerman
Staff Writer

Davidson women’s lacrosse opened the season at home against C.W. Post. Not only did Davidson win in an enthralling fashion,
the individual performance of Jen Crawford ’10 proved to be the driving force in the important early season victory. Crawford
led Davidson in offense with six goals, a game high personal best. After surviving a come-from-behind run by C.W. Post
in the second half, Davidson tied C.W. Post at nine all. Half-way through the second half though, the game would
be all Davidson. In an offensive frenzy, Davidson scored five consecutive goals to take a 14-9 lead. The momentum changed
when Erin Keitel ’12 made a free-position shot after drawing a foul. Keitel had four goals in the game and
remained a perfect four for four on free positions.Why? Because it has not always been the case. In 1988, Kansas
won behind the midrange game of Danny Manning. In spite of his height, he was no post threat. Larry Bird’s
1979 Indiana State team played for the title with no legitimate threat inside (though Bird could do it all). Several
of John Wooden’s title teams (the ones that did not include Bill Walton or Lew Alcindor) were almost solely based
upon guard play. The college game has fundamentally shifted because it has become more of a pro-style game. With the
shot clock, teams run more, giving the advantage to more athletic teams. The best running teams will have bigs that
can finish inside. Smaller schools can still win behind systems and solid coaching, but even with the talent gap closing,
winning big has become more difficult. It takes a superstar, like Davidson’s Curry, to allow those teams to truly compete.
Size rules the college basketball roost now. The good news? Some coaches are too caught up in height to see
a major talent right under their noses. Who cares if a guy is 6’7” instead of 6’10” if the 6’10”
player cannot put the ball in the hoop? It’s still a game of coaching, recruiting, and talent evaluation. In that
world, the balance of power can never truly shift, and we will see more Davidsons, Butlers, and George Masons challenge
the basketball hierarchy.

Davidson as a team went six for seven in this statistic. Crawford then took control with back-to-back goals with 12:58
remaining on the clock. Haley Cook ’10 followed suit and scored her second goal of the game while Anna Smith
’12 subsequently seized her first collegiate career goal. Davidson capitalized on C.W. Post’s penalty problems late in the game when
three yellow cards forced the Pioneers to play a player short. This advantage was vital to the victory for Davidson.
Six different Davidson players scored goals proving that there are no problems with the Davidson Lacrosse offense this year. Michelle
Pav ’10, Davidson goalkeeper, tallied her game-best nine saves, representing that the Davidson defense is also fierce this season. With
a great opening victory, Davidson’s season has begun with a bang. Davidson will next see action when they host Bucknell
at 2 p.m. on Saturday.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2009

“If they’re shooting well,” she said, “they might think twice before...”

Wildcat offense presented an even read. Halbersleben and Robinson each was a downer for senior night, but other than the
Samford shooting, the ’Cats played an even game. After Davidson controlled the second half, it was a particular weight considering
it started Davidson’s earlier six-game skid.

Women’s B-ball Standings
1. Samford (16-2, 21-4)
2. Chattanooga (16-2, 20-7)
3. Charleston (12-6, 19-7)
4. Western Carolina (11-6, 15-11)
5. Georgia Southern (10-7, 15-11)
6. Davidson (9-8, 10-16)
7. UNC Greensboro (7-10, 10-16)
8. Appalachian State (6-11, 7-19)
9. Furman (5-12, 11-15)
10. Wofford (2-15, 4-21)
11. Elon (1-16, 3-23)

Women’s Tennis
Results: 2/14 vs. USC-Upstate L 1-6
Next Up: 2/19 @ UNC

Men’s Basketball
Results: 2/12 @ Wofford W 78-61
2/14 @ Furman W 75-60
2/16 vs. Samford L 67-78
Next Up: 2/18 vs. Citadel
2/21 @ Georgia Southern

Men’s Tennis
Results: 2/14 @ #41 Va Tech L 0-7
Next Up: 2/21 vs. Bucknell

Lacrosse
Results: 2/15 vs. C.W. Post W 16-11
Next Up: 2/27 vs. Richmond

Women’s Basketball
Results: 2/14 vs. Chattanooga W 89-80
Next Up: 2/20 vs. #21 Butler

Wrestling
Results: 2/13 @ Anderson L 14-20
2/13 vs. Belmont Abbey W 31-15
2/15 vs. The Citadel L 16-22
Next Up: 2/22 @ Duquesne

Notes: Eric Noble ’10 recorded the Wildcats’ only point of the afternoon in Saturday’s loss to USC-Upstate with a 3-6,
6-3, 6-1 victory in #3 singles.

Notes: Coming off a school-record 11 wins in 2008, the ’Cats picked up right where they left off with their
fourth season-opening win in the last five seasons.

Notes: After a tough loss to the Hokies over the weekend, the Wildcats continue their grueling non-conference schedule with a
trip to Chapel Hill to take on the Tar Heels.

Notes: The ’Cats begin a four-game homestand with a hot Citadel team that enters tonight’s game on a nine-game winning
streak including a 72-58 victory over C of C on Saturday.

Notes: Mandy Halbersleben ’09 and Mercedes Robinson ’09 were honored in a Senior Night ceremony prior to the final home
games of their career Monday night against Samford.

Notes: Sam O’Hair ’09 won all three of his matches over the weekend including a 13-4 decision in the 184
division in the final home match of his career Sunday against The Citadel.
