DT DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Students enjoyed Spring Frolics by slipping and sliding with alumni. See NEWS, page 2

DAVIDSON ROCKS THE RUNWAY

Students hit the runway this past week to participate in the Greek Week Fashion Show. See ARTS, page 5

MEN’S TRACK TAKES FIFTH

Lance Harden ’09 ran for the Men’s Track and Field Conference Meet this past weekend. See SPORTS, page 11

WE’D HAVE TAKEN THE MONEY TOO, STEPHEN.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29, 2009

Ray Francis
Staff Writer

Stephen Curry ’10 announced last Thursday that he will enter the NBA Draft, foregoing his final season of eligibility in
college. The decision came after over a month of deliberation, bringing closure to the debate surrounding arguably the greatest player
in Davidson history. Despite playing only three seasons, Curry leaves Davidson as the school’s (and Southern Conference’s) all-time leading scorer
with 2,635 points. He is also fourth in NCAA history with 414 career three-pointers.

“I’m at peace with this decision,” Curry said. “I needed to take hold of this opportunity while I had it.”

Draft experts have Curry being picked anywhere from seventh to twentieth in the first round of the draft. As a
first-round draft pick, Curry would be entitled to a guaranteed multi-million dollar contract by the current NBA Collective Bargaining Agreement.
He is projected as a point guard in the NBA, the position he played last season for the Wildcats after
being a shooting guard for his first two seasons. He will look to prove that his 6-3, 185-pound frame is
not too small for him to succeed in the NBA.

Curry said that his decision to leave was complicated by his desire to remain at school and enjoy the experience
at Davidson for one more year, saying “When I came here, I thought it was going to be for four
years, with my teammates and my class. That’s hard for me to walk away from before I have to.”

Curry led the nation in scoring with 28.6 points per game last season on his way to being named a
consensus All-American. He was also 12th in the nation with 2.6 steals per game, demonstrating the defensive ability that many
experts believe will ease his transition to the next level. He also scored 30 or more points in a game
30 times.

Curry’s final season ended on March 23 when the Wildcats were defeated 80-68 by Saint Mary’s in the second round
of the NIT. The season saw Curry lead the Southern Conference in steals and assists (5.6 per game).

Stephen Curry ’10 is shown above taking the ball hard to the rim against Elon, as he did many times
for the Wildcats in his illustrious 3-year career.

Trustee receives justice award

Caroline Wood
News Editor

This week, Davidson graduate and trustee Paul Leonard ’62 was awarded the Charlotte Coalition for Social Justice’s annual Humanitarian Award.
The 38th awards ceremony took place last Tuesday in Charlotte at the Westin Hotel. The awards, which are now annual,
were inaugurated in 1957 with the recognition of Judge John R. Parker, a North Carolina judge who exercised a long
career in state, federal, and international law.

The awards recognize individuals working in Mecklenburg County who have “made significant contributions to improving the quality of life for
members of the community by challenging discrimination and/or advocating for equity and inclusion.” The coalition honors work in racial equity,
religious expression, diversity education, and a host of other fields. The Coalition also maintains a commitment to supporting youth activism
by reserving one award for a localHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

A young humanitarian, an activist who once participated in the Coalition’s youth education program, has served the organization through their
volunteer work and has continued to branch out, developing initiatives and efforts of their own to promote social justice. Leonard
is being honored for his work in fair housing, where he has spent decades advocating for equal opportunity in the
struggle to end homelessness and sub-standard housing. This year’s awards also recognized Franklin E. McCain, a Charlotte civil rights leader,
and Maria Suarez, a local humanitarian. Recent recipients have included John Crosland, Jr., Rabbi Judith Schindler, and Theresa Clark Elder.
Recipients for the award are nominated by community members (nominations can be made in person or through the organization’s website)
and chosen by the Coalition for Social Justice’s staff. Leonard graduated from Davidson in 1962 with a degree in history
before completing divinity studies at the University of Chicago and a master’s program in business at Emory University. He has
returned to Davidson, where he lives and serves on the College’s board. Leonard served as the chair of the presidential
search committee during the nomination and selection of President Tom Ross and is also on the Board of Trustees at
Pfeiffer University. After working as the president of John Crosland real estate company and vice president of Centex Real Estate
Corporation, Leonard worked at Habitat for Humanity International for over 15 years, where he served as treasurer, chair of the
Strategic Planning Committee, chair of the U.S./Canada Committee and the U.S. Council, and director of the Board. In 2005 he
was...

See Leonard, page 2

www.thedavidsonian.com

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 24

Forgoing senior year, Curry to enter NBA draft

...per game) but also saw the end of the Wildcats’ 43-game conference winning streak. Curry’s notable efforts included 44 points
in a loss to Oklahoma and a win against North Carolina State, ten straight points late in a victory over
West Virginia in Madison Square Garden, and a 43-point effort against Appalachian State in the conference tournament quarterfinals. Curry’s legacy,
however, will ultimately be his transcendent performance as a sophomore during the NCAA tournament. Curry produced 40 points in a
first-round defeat of Gonzaga, scoring 30 in the second half as the Wildcats rallied from an 11-point second-half hole and
hitting 8-10 three-point shots. He followed this effort with 25 second-half points against the second...

See Curry, page 15

Alumnus runs for mayor

ALEX KOWALESKI Staff Writer

On Nov. 3, Charlotte will hold its biennial mayoral election, the first election without an incumbent mayor since Pat McCrory
first won the office 14 years ago. This election also features a Davidson alumnus, Anthony Foxx '93, who declared his
candidacy earlier this month. Foxx, 37, majored in history at Davidson and served as the school’s first black student body
president. After graduating from Davidson, Foxx earned his law degree at New York University School of Law, and a short
time later, he left private practice to work as a clerk for Nathaniel R. Jones, a judge on the Sixth
Circuit in Cincinnati, Ohio. In 1999, Foxx began to work as Counsel to Congressman Melvin Watt. Foxx has also worked
as a trial attorney with the Hunton and Williams Law Firm, where he specialized in business litigation. In 2005, Foxx
won a seat on the Charlotte City Council At-Large as a Democrat. He currently chairs the Transportation Committee and is
a ranking member of Charlotte’s Economic Development Committee. He considers promoting job growth and maintaining infrastructure among his priorities. At
his campaign kickoff event on April 16, Charlotte’s last Democratic mayor, Harvey...

---
