THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2009

Chidsey program welcomes class of student leaders

Katie VOEGTL
Staff Writer

Last Saturday, the Chidsey Leadership Fellows, Class of 2013, gathered for a day-long retreat at the DCPC Congregation House. These
twenty freshmen were selected via a two-fold process, involving an application and a follow-up interview. They have committed to four
years of close study and practice of leadership, both on campus and in the community.

Commencing at 9:30 a.m., the fellows, after brief introductions, broke into four groups for an epic scavenger hunt, organized by
sophomore Chidsey Fellows. Blind to the temptations of the Davidson Green, which included live banjo music and pony rides, the
fellows industriously followed a trail of clues, completing a total of six tasks through the course of the morning. Although
last year’s freshmen spent their morning on a ropes course, sophomores felt that a scavenger hunt would provide the opportunity
to exercise a broader range of skills — including mental, creative, physical, and even musical.

Hopping from the Davidson post office to the public library to the very doorstep of the White House, fellows could
be spotted huddled over brain teasers, donning colorful capes, discussing leadership and passing oranges with their necks. Upon visiting Cats
on the Main, fellows paused to sing the Davidson Fight Song, some more tunelessly than others but all with admirable
vigor. Some even had the honor of performing before President Tom Ross himself.

Afternoon activities included discussions of students’ expectations and resolutions for the future, as the Chidsey Leadership Development program spans all
four undergraduate years, each of which concentrates on a selected theme. Freshmen focus on aspects of personal leadership, including personal
strengths, how others perceive them and leadership theory. Sophomores turn towards an in-depth study of group dynamics, while juniors expand
their view to include the broader community. The program culminates senior year with sustainable leadership, as fellows look into future
leadership possibilities.

All these endeavors are guided and facilitated by the joint efforts of Julia Baker Jones, director of the Chidsey Center
for Leadership Development, and Alexandra McArthur, Leadership Development Fellow. These ladies place a great deal of emphasis on the diversity
of leadership styles and the conviction that each fellow should develop an approach in accord with his own strengths and
interests. Likewise, they recognize that good leaders are needed in every field, including companies, non-profit agencies, the government and educational
institutions.

As freshmen fellows shared past leadership experiences, the colorful diversity of interests in the group became evident. There were leaders
from band, school newspapers, student government, sports teams and community service endeavors. One student even began her own beekeeping business.
Now the freshmen will join as a community of aspiring leaders, helping each other identify individual strengths, talents and weaknesses
as they explore leadership theory.

SGA business proceeds

ITS news, alcohol policy discussed

CRISTINA BUSTILLO
Staff Writer

During its weekly meeting last Thursday, the Student Government Association (SGA) addressed a number of relevant issues. The first order
of business was the introduction of the Building and Grounds Committee for SGA. Chipper Jones ’12, the head of the
committee, began by explaining that this committee is dedicated to improving and bringing attention to issues regarding the campus’ buildings
and grounds. This year the committee will be focused on achieving specific goals, such as installing seating around Commons. Other
exciting goals for this committee are creatingOutdoor classrooms and participating in the creation of two new dormitories. In addition to
this, they will continue to be involved with the movement towards sustainability and composting. After Jones, Jordan Starck ’12 presented
the External Affairs Committee. This committee is focused on creating a relationship between Davidson College and the town of Davidson.
This year they will be concentrating on creating a “Davidson Expo Show” which will be aimed to show Davidson to
the town. They would like to have representatives from the PCC and student organizations to show what Davidson College is
like.

This concluded the Committee presentations, and the meeting continued with an update from the Student Life Committee. Laura Sousa ’10
began by saying that ITS would be installing more computers on campus. They will be adding computers to the top
floor of the Student Union and they will also be adding computers in the basement of Sloan. ITS will also
be adding printers in Cannon, Watts, and F. The new SGA-ITS student liaison is Danny Langley ’10, who will be
in charge of addressing all the issues concerning ITS. In addition to working with ITS, the Student Life Committee also
met with Fountain Walker to address the issue of towing on campus. Some students have complained that their cars had
been towed and that they had not received a notification, so Walker agreed to send an email notifying the owner
of the car that it had been towed.

The committee also met with Dr. Patty Perillo regarding the new alcohol policies that have been enforced on campus. They
have agreed to work together to compile a list of rules that all students should know. They will distribute these
rules through the class presidents so that all students are aware of all the policies regarding alcohol. In addition to
this, they will also be creating an alcohol board which will meet once a month and where SGA, RLO, and
Perillo can discuss what’s happening and analyze the policies and how they are working.

After this, SGA President Meikaela Zwierzynski ’10 concluded the meeting by giving an update on the Southern Conference she attended
the weekend of Sep. 19-20, where Deans and SGA officers of peer institutions met and discussed what they have been
doing in their schools and what has worked and what has not. Her impressions were that Davidson seems to be
a very closely knit campus and that the alcohol policies that are enforced on campus at these peer institutions are
stricter, but that this has created some dangerous off-campus drinking cultures.

Together as well as practical skills, including the logistics behind running effective meetings, delegation, and planning. The Chidsey program owes
its creation to the Chidsey Center for Leadership Development, which opened in 2007, thanks largely to the generous sponsorship of
John Chidsey. He and his wife Lisa graduated from Davidson in 1983. Chidsey is now a college trustee and CEO
of Burger King Corporation. He funded the center to provide activities and resources geared towards cultivating leadership in students. Defining
leadership as “the ability to empower and inspire others to work together for the common good,” the program strives to
provide students with a blend of theory and experience that will enhance their leadership skills for life.
