THE BROSEE ISSUE
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2009

DAVIDSON PROFESSOR CAUGHT LIFTING “FACTS” FROM WIKIPEDIA
SEE PAGE 8

TUBERCULOSIS DIAGNOSIS LATEST IN STRING OF OREGON TRAIL-RELATED MALADIES
SEE PAGE 3

LIVE THURSDAYS BOOKED FOR 3 YEARS BY A CAPELLA GROUPS
SEE PAGE 6

PROACTIVE SENIOR KILLS SPIRIT EARLY IN ANTICIPATION OF MISERABLE CAREER
PAGE 7

OF THE WEEK SEARCH: *°3 MINUTE DEATH Druc’”’

THE YOWL
Your Davidson Honor

Section Editors: Alex Greening, The Predator
Writers: Peter Bruton, Brian Correa, Brian Park

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

DAVIDSON'S NEWS

NFL Commissioner Found

Davidson—Monday night Davidson College welcomed NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell to the Duke Performance Hall for a discussion on sports and ethics. Mr. Goodell spoke on several topics ranging from his involvement with player discipline to his position on what he thinks Davidson needs to do to start winning some games. He answered questions for about an hour before attending a brief reception in the Union where he shook hands, took pictures, and kissed babies.

Goodell was mobbed by the brothers of Beta Rho Omega immediately following his lecture and was even invited to attend their weekly Monday Night Football ceremony at their house on Patterson Court. However, he respectfully declined, claiming his “frat star days were well behind him” despite his frequent use of phrases like “bro” and “chill” all throughout his speech.

Although several members of BRO insisted he join in the festivities by “crushing some brews” and getting “real drunk,” Goodell was adamant about maintaining his sobriety before heading back home to distribute a handful of fines, all presumably to Chad Ochocinco. Needless to say, the BROs were disappointed.

Fortunately for them, Goodell had a change of heart sometime between leaving campus and arriving back at his hotel room in Charlotte. The BRO president, Sandy Kildersleeve, revealed that around midnight he went to check out a loud banging on the back of the house where he found the Commissioner shirtless, inebriated, and in the middle of a wrestling match with 3 or 4 BROs. The party only took off from there, said several sources who were woken up to deafening chants of “Make Out! Make Out! Make Out!” and some of “Roger! Roger! Roger!” as he slid across a table and into a Coke machine.

Many believe that this was the point when Goodell “raged himself unconscious” and remained there motionless until Campus Police escorted “The Enforcer,” his nickname in the NFL, back to his community bike and off campus. “This guy really knows how to throw down,” commented one brother. “He’s such a badass,” elaborated another. The articulate and well-spoken members of the BRO fraternity all agreed that Goodell was indeed “sick at drinking” and were all sad he blacked-out so early. For the BROs, this was a night to remember, although most of them woke up on their halls asking, “Dude, what happened last night? Why is there pee in my bed?”

Major Disappointment: The Yowl’s Handy Guide

Major: Philosophy
Reasons people choose this major: A search for truth, an aversion to actual work
Why people avoid this major: They want to support themselves and their families
Career options: Philosophy professor. Other than that...dog-walker? DMV employee?
Where they study abroad: The metaphysical realm that exists only in the mind, Greece.
Description: Armed with a hair bandana, a mailman’s bag, and their minds, Philosophy majors set out to search for the truth. Philosophers are an odd bunch.of people. They read the works of Schlegel, Sartre, Kant, and Spinoza for fun. They also claim to understand what they say, and generally hate shaving. Philosophers have developed a strong aversion to the razor. Just look at the beards on Plato and Karl Marx. Philosophy majors often ponder about deep questions such as: does reality exist? Are my mind, soul, and body separate? How am I going to pay this bill? They also have an obscure sense of humor that only other majors can possibly understand (e.g., Hahaha, he thinks that, via the categorical imperative, reality only exists ontologically only in the mind). Philosophers place the noble search for truth over petty, everyday concerns like money, food, and shelter.

November 18, 2009

Weatherford: extraordinary

Charleston—High School Junior William Kentworth Weatherford declared that he will leave high school to bro out professionally. “I felt my game was good enough to make the jump to the next level. I don’t want to risk injury in the college ranks and I want to bro out professionally,” said Weatherford. Weatherford went to the St. Andrew’s Charleston Country Day Latin Boarding School for his high school career. He put up impressive numbers by getting blackout drunk 49 times this year, making out with 55 hot girls, and wearing a pastel or plaid polo shirt for 198 straight days. Kentworth has completely dominated the high school game. His size, casual facial hair, Madras-print shorts, and unparalleled experience made Weatherford a very attractive candidate for the professional bro ranks. He has already received an offer to work part-time at his father’s hedge fund. “While I will miss the fraternity lifestyle in college, I feel I am ready to make this happen. It was a difficult decision but I am ready. I just want to give a shout-out to my lax team in Charleston, all the babes I’ve hooked up with, the dude from the OAR concert who sold me pot that one time, and my dad for funding my dreams.” Weatherford is one of the first to bypass college but may open the floodgates for future bros.

Professors To Count Twitter For Class Participation

Davidson—After a recent faculty meeting, Dean Ross announced that students have the option of using Twitter to fulfill the much-needed class participation credit. “We felt that students probably contributed just as much with a couple of Tweets on their Twitter accounts,” said Ross. The plan is that students read the night before and post during class. Many professors already use PowerPoint presentations and computer displays in class. This should help the students who are quiet or who are simply too lazy to get out of bed. Ross hoped that the new measure would counteract the sagging attendance for many early morning classes. “Our goal is to create an environment of learning. We want to accommodate the students who lack the motivation to attend 8:30 classes. We are not going to abandon them. Their Tweets mean just as much as anyone else’s comments,” said Ross. Twitter will hopefully replace Blackboard in a couple of years. The faculty are also looking into texting essays. Ross commented, “If you read Strunk and White, they say that short, concise language is the most effective writing. What is more to the point than a text message?” The embrace of technology and its many trends is an exciting step for Davidson College. Future plans include touchscreens embedded in all desks in Chambers and the installation of a chairlift to Martin Court.