DAVIDSON COLLEGE

INSIDE THIS WEEK

SISTER ACT
Renowned authors—and sisters—Elizabeth Gilbert (above) and Catherine Gilbert Murdock to deliver dual address in 2009 Reynolds Lecture on Monday night
see NEWS, page 2

THE EYES OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
Bill Giduz, alumnus and “visual historian,” celebrates a career of chronicling life at Davidson in his exhibition “Picturing Davidson: Bill
Giduz and His First Thirty Years”
see ARTS, page 5

CATS TRYING TO FIND THEIR RHYTHM
Football picks up home win vs. Morehead State on Oct. 10 but falls to Flyers on the road in most
recent contest
see SPORTS, page 11

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2009

Kara Jones
Staff Writer

On Oct. 2, after two years of work, Davidson’s Board of Trustees approved the Strategic Plan initiated by President Tom
Ross at the beginning of his presidency. The plan had input from thousands of students, faculty, staff, alumni, parents, and
friends of the college.

This is not a regular enterprise at Davidson, and when Tom Ross arrived, no current plan was in process; however,
Ross recognized the need for Davidson to “change in order to remain the same.” Davidson has a unique culture with
core values and traditions that comprise the college’s identity. These values include a focus on teaching and learning, a commitment
to leadership and service, and an adherence to the reform tradition. The administration intends to ensure that Davidson loses no
aspect of its traditional core philosophy.

To preserve the integrity of the college’s values, the Strategic Plan seeks to gauge how the Davidson environment has changed
over time. For example, research now differs greatly from the research measures of twenty years ago. While the main focus
of research was once placed on finding resources, the principal challenge of contemporary research is to discover credible resources.

The strategic assessment allows the college to interpret the current state of Davidson’s academic and social existence. It assists the
college in evaluating the Davidson culture and the needs of Davidson students. The strategic plan began on Aug. 1, 2007
with an email survey to students, faculty, and staff, asking what they would change about Davidson and what they would
protect. From the 5,249 responses came a general consensus that Davidson should remain focused on a liberal arts curriculum and
continue being proactive about increasing diversity. It further assessed that the primary focus of the Davidson faculty should remain on
teaching. Survey participants also agreed that Davidson’s central purpose is to develop students that are engaged members of their community.

See Strategic Plan, page 3

Last Friday night, students and members of the community gathered in Belk Arena to see the fifth annual tip-off of
the men’s and women’s basketball seasons. Events included team competition for “Davidson’s Best Dance Crew,” as well as a 3-point
shootout and opening scrimmages. The seniors out-stepped the competition, winning the most applause from the fans. On the men’s side,
Bryant Barr ’10 claimed first place in the 3-point competition while Ashley Lax ’11 won the women’s shootout. The men’s
team has an intersquad scrimmage this Saturday, Oct. 24 at 11:30 a.m. The exhibition is open to the public and
everyone is encouraged to attend to support the Wildcats.

Convocation to honor students and alumni

KELLY WILSON
Staff Writer

Friday through Sunday this week marks Davidson’s annual Family Weekend, a formal invitation to family members of current Davidson students
to experience campus life through classroom visits, athleticevents, theatrical and musical performances, and conversations with faculty and staff. Among the
weekend’s major events is Fall Convocation, which will take place on Saturday at 10:30 a.m. in the Duke Family Performance
Hall in the Knobloch Campus Center. There will be a picnic lunch following Convocation on Chambers Lawn.

“Fall Convocation is an opportunity to celebrate the academic accomplishments of some of our students and to recognize a member
of the faculty for exceptional teaching,” President Tom Ross ’72 said. “The Convocation is also the first opportunity for seniors
to march in an academic processional in their caps and gowns.”

While Ross will not be delivering a speech at Saturday’s Fall Convocation, he will present an honorary degree to President
Emeritus John Kuykendall ’59, who served as president of Davidson College from 1984 to 1997. During his presidency, Davidson launched
its Dean Rusk International Studies Program and the Medical Humanities Program. Under Kuykendall’s supervision, the College also completed a $160-million
campaign to fund the construction of the Baker Sports Complex, the Belk Visual Arts Center, and six upperclassmen apartments.

While he was a student at Davidson, Kuykendall served as Student Body President and was responsible for founding the Honor
Council. This year is the 100th anniversary of a student-run honor code at Davidson, hence the campus-wide Celebration of Honor
and Integrity and the timeliness of Kuykendall’s honorary degree.

Recipients of several other awards will also be announced at the ceremony. The Alumni Service Award will be presented to
Will Terry ’54, Dean of Students Emeritus, for his generous service to the College. The Thomas Jefferson Award recognizes outstanding
personal influence on the college community, and teaching, writing, and scholarship that go beyond the call of duty. The College
will also announce recipients of the Goodwin Exxon Service Awards, which were established by Henry S. Goodwin of the Class
of 1930 and funded by the Exxon Foundation. The awards are presented annually to a sophomore, junior, and senior who
exemplify the highest standards of character, good sportsmanship, friendliness, and consideration for others.

Other highlights of the weekend include a legacy gathering sponsored by the Alumni Association at the President’s House. There are
approximately 40-45 legacy students in each class, and all students who have at least one parent who is an alumnus
are invited.

“This is only the second year we’ve done a Family Weekend legacy event,” Peter Wagner ’92, Director of Alumni Relations,
said. “Last year was a huge hit, so we’ve stuck with it. There is something very special about the ‘sons
and daughters of Davidson’ entrusting their own sons and daughters to us for the four most important years of their
lives,” he continued. “Davidson values every relationship that is created here between students, parents, and friends, but there is undeniably
something particularly special about the generational connections that legacy families have with Davidson. At these events, it’s so much fun
to watch the families come together, to see alumni reunited sometimes after many years apart — all there because their
children are classmates at Davidson like they were years before,” he said. The turnout for the gathering is expected to
be around 250 people.

This weekend’s cultural events include the Davidson International Association’s (DIA) International Festival, which will be in the Brown Atrium of
the Alvarez College Union from 12:00 to 3:00 p.m. on Saturday.

“The International Festival is an opportunity for Davidson’s international students, students whose parents are not originally from the U.S., students
who have studied abroad, and even some parents.
