TUESDAY PARTY - SERIOUSLY? SEE PAGE 2

HOOTERS AGREES TO CATER NEXT YEAR’S BOSOM BUDDIES SEE PAGE 10

NIT: Not In TOURNAMENT SEE PAGE 2

COMMONS SERVES POTATOES, WHISKEY IN HONOR OF IRISH HOLIDAY SEE PAGE 5

PCC FRATERNITIES EXPERIENCE DEPRESSION DUE TO END OF PLEDGING SEE PAGE 4

OF THE WEEK _ SEARCH: **TALE OF THE CRACK FOX**

THE YOWL

Your Davidson Honor

Section Editors: Alex Greening, Gary Busey, Peter Bruton

Writers: Amanda Ottaway

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

THE POINT BREAK ISSUE

Utah! Gimme two!

ORTA UBERTAS

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

March 18, 2009

The Truth Comes Out: Why Davidson is So Difficult

Due to the enormous number of morally-opposed students in next year’s incoming freshman class, Davidson College has made the decision
to make every residence hall substance-free. The popular drinking game “Beer Pong” will be replaced with a school-sanctioned alternative, “Birdwatching
While Listening to Kidz Bop.”

In admissions essays, over 475 of the 500 applicants chose to explain why they needed a substance-free hall—they wanted to
be able to do their homework, get eight hours of sleep a night and four A+’s a semester, and eventually
graduate with honors and take a well-paying job in the real world. They will not be bothered with the trivialities
of Patterson Court or the senior apartments.

College president Tom Ross is pleased with the decision. “There is no doubt in my mind that the only reason
Davidson College has acquired a formidable reputation as a ‘difficult’ school is that its students spend over three-quarters of their
time partying and not studying. The relatively low cumulative GPA of the college is not, despite popular belief, a result
of tough grading and strict professors, but of alcohol-dazed attendees who ignore their schoolwork,” he stated firmly last week. “The
class of 2013, unlike any of its predecessors, has its priorities straight. In order for these young people to succeed,
every hall will be converted to substance-free, so that they may have the peace and quiet they deserve.”

Other measures taken recently include converting court parties to study sessions, and beer pong tables have been confiscated and moved
to the library.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2009

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dean Investigates “Phantom Farter” in 1:30 Class

Chambers — Andrew Buckleburr, a husky 18-year-old freshman, is not going to take it any longer. “I’m sick and tired
of it!” Buckleburr exclaimed. “Everyone thinks it’s me, but there’s just no way! I know when I break wind and
this definitely has the smell of a cover-up.”

Buckleburr is blamed for most flatulence in his 1:30 History of the Women’s Rights Movement class. This session is plagued
by noxious fumes that bring even the most senior professor to his knees. “What’s unusual about this aggressor is that
he gives no warning,” Dr. Mort Finklestein said. “If anything, I feel a slight breeze before my eyes begin to
water. I always assumed it was Buckleburr because he’s the...fat kid. Now I’m not so sure.” In an effort to
clear his good name, Buckleburr is taking numerous steps to find the real perpetrator. He has begun taking air samples
during especially ripe episodes and has even approached his classmates about obtaining odor samples outside of the class.

Residence Life Office Responds to Economic Crisis; New Themed, Off-Campus Housing Finalized

Davidson—RLO has just announced an exciting addition to student housing next year. Next year on Main St., a spacious 40,000
square foot mansion will be open to 20 students who display an appropriate attitude towards the theme. The theme is
simple: spend to excess.

“Our hope is that the Davidson College community can really help our nation’s GNP. By wasting electricity, food, water, and
gasoline we should hopefully spur on the sagging oil and utilities industries,” RLO Director Angelina Murphy said in a press
release. “The goal of the Econ House is to spend as much money as possible...”

The goal of the “EconHouse” is to spend as much money as possible and to litter and destroy their surroundings.
The money spent should help a number of industries in dire straits. The trash and litter left by the EconHouse
should force the town to hire more workers and subsequently lower the unemployment rate. Damaged structures will also force the
college to work with construction companies in the hopes of affecting the real estate and the construction industries.

Students who qualify for the EconHouse will have access to the College’s fleet of Hummers and are encouraged to use
them anytime they go down the hill. The EconHouse residents will not abandon Davidson’s social life. “Our Carbon Footprint party
is going to dominate Duke Water & Power,” Chester Covington ’10 said. “We want to stay consistent with Davidson’s official,
wasteful policy prohibiting the economically and environmentally-friendly keg. In fact, we’re going to make guests pour their drinks from bottles
or cans into cups, doubling the irreversible damage inflicted upon Mother Earth.”

The EconHouse is actually located next to the Ecohouse, and a budding rivalry has already started. “For every sprout they
eat, I will fire up my X-box in my gas-powered golf cart while grilling five t-bone steaks. It’s not about
me, it’s about the community and caring,” Junior Math major A.J. Fields said. The EconHouse hopes to waste three times
the amount of energy the EcoHouse saves. The 2009-2010 school year should be very exciting for both houses.

“What I think will provide really conclusive evidence is observation of food consumed earlier. Since most students come to class
right after lunch, the Big Head Burrito may be the real culprit.”

Andrew Buckleburr, Private Investigator

Buckleburr has no definitive evidence as of yet but he has a hunch. 95-pound Charlotte Digby, a freshman cross-country and
track runner, has a “certain smugness” that Buckleburr interprets as guilt. Buckleburr hopes his study will stop the embarrassing accusations,
but much work remains to be done.

Time for Modes

Superbowl causes many sports fans to adorn,
