Ee <eeee ~ DAVIDSON COLLEGE

INSIDE THIS

A TASTE OF INTERNATIONAL FLAIR
Annual International Festival showcases a diversity of culture, performance, and food from across the world to Davidson students and their parents
see NEWS, page 2

“STARING” FROM A DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE
Carey Leigh Evans reviews moving new exhibition in VAC that challenges the viewer’s perception
see ARTS, page 5

A WEEK OF BAD BREAKS
Pair of late losses to Hokies and Terriers bring Men's Soccer’s win streak to stunning halt
see SPORTS, page 10

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2009
www.thedavidsonian.com

VOLUME 101, NUMBER 8

Professor Mark Smith awarded $1 million grant
Logan Lewis
Sports Editor

Davidson College Associate Professor of Psychology Mark Smith received a grant of nearly one million dollars from the National Institute of Drug Abuse to fuel his study of how exercise may help overcome cocaine addictions.

Over the last three years, Smith has performed experiments which have demonstrated that exercise can reduce the desire for cocaine. In one of his experiments, he tested the motivation of rats to push a lever to receive a dose of cocaine. Rats who regularly exercised gave up when they did not receive a dose after an average of 70 pushes whereas those who were not accustomed to exercising kept pushing the lever an average of 250 times.

The funds he is receiving from the NIDA will support five years of animal testing to more precisely determine the benefits of exercise at various stages in the addictive process. He hopes to answer or to at least begin to answer difficult questions as a result of his research. These questions include the following: Can exercise deter people from beginning drug use? Will exercise limit the amount of drugs new users employ? Can exercise help people quit using drugs once they have started? Can exercise help those who previously used drugs to avoid a relapse into addiction? Does exercise stimulate the brain in such a way that physiological changes actually occur which make a person immune to drug abuse?

While these are all difficult questions to answer definitively, Smith has hope that these funds will allow him to draw some scientific conclusions about these topics. The grant will permit Smith to hire a full-time research technician, while Davidson College will provide two student assistants each summer. The grant will also cover the costs of rats and various types of chambers in which the rats live and exercise.

Despite a rainy start to the weekend, Family Weekend 2009 was a success. On Saturday morning, seniors dressed in their gowns, ushered in the new year and celebrated their achievements during Convocation in Duke Family Performance Hall. Later in the day, parents and students enjoyed the football game versus Drake, a reception for alumni and legacy students, and a performance in the Union. The Delilahs, Shades of Brown Step Team, Androgyny, Gamut Dance Company, Dance Ensemble, and the Generals all performed for students and parents, in a showcase of Davidson talent. Later that night, families and students watched the men’s soccer game against Wofford.

The chambers Smith has been using do not give the rat a choice between exercising and cocaine. Dr. David Roberts of Wake Forest University will work with Smith to build a new type of chamber which will allow rats to access both a running wheel and a self-administration of drugs. The new chambers will provide a much more real-world situation in which the rat will be able to choose his own path, either to exercise or drugs. Most addicts have the opportunity to choose between exercise and taking drugs. Smith hopes that when the rats have the choice, they will choose exercise over self-administrative drugs.

Smith believes that exercise is anEffective substitute for cocaine because it acts on the brain in a very similar way to cocaine. Both increase concentrations of the neu-

See Addiction, page 3

Photo by Bill Giduz

Alumni Association welcomes minority alumni

JESSE JOHNSON
Staff Writer

One of the newest efforts the College is pursuing to diversify its campus comes from the Davidson College Alumni Association (DCAA) with its introduction of the Alumni Color Engagement Committee. Nov. 6-8, the DCAA will sponsor a weekend of activities in support of alumni diversity as part of its ongoing efforts to expand its family and better serve minority and international alumni.

“About 10 years ago there was a summit weekend on campus for black alumni which was quite successful,” Peter Wagner ’92, director of Alumni Relations, explained. “This is the first time since then that something similar has been attempted, and the scope this time around is much broader (we’ve included in the invitation list, in the planning committee, and in the program itself) alumni from every ethnicity as well as international students.”

The project grew out of conversations with the Alumni Association Board of Directors. “We found that among our alumni, there is a huge gap between white and non-white alumni in three easily quantifiable areas: volunteerism, attendance at events, and participation in the Annual Fund,” Wagner explained. “The Board formed the ACE Committee to address how to narrow this gap, and the weekend program is the kickoff event in that effort.”

The weekend will not only encourage minority alumni to participate in such activities; it will also allow the College to determine the reason for the low rates of participation. Bill Giduz, director of College Communications, is also invested in the event. “As someone who attended in the 1970s, a lot of us didn’t feel very welcomed by some parts of the community, and I suspect some of that continues to a lesser degree today,” he said.

Rusty Lindsey ’76, a member of the Alumni Association Board and one of the principal organizers, stated that, “Though Davidson is continually becoming more diverse, it needs to encourage and enable input from students and alumni of color about how it should grow and evolve to successfully remain relevant in a changing society.

“This weekend’s activities are consistent with Davidson College’s broader approach to creating a campus culture that promotes understanding and acceptance of diversity in its broadest sense,” he continued, referencing one of the four objectives in Davidson’s strategic plan.

One of the highlights for the upcoming weekend is a panel discussion featuring alumni across a broad range of eras and demographics, including: Mitzi Short ’83, Calvin Murphy ’70, Rosie Molinary ’96, Izzy Justice ’90, Gagan Gupta ’07, and Romy Cawood ’89. The topic is “Davidson Then and Now: Where We’ve Been and Where We're Going.” Panelists will share their stories and provide feedback to questions and comments.

Wagner strongly encourages students to attend Saturday’s panel discussion, reminding students that all are welcome (it will take place at 9:30 a.m. in the 900 Room - moved from Duke). “I think it could be a huge learning opportunity for students who enjoy a much better experience today than some of our pioneering alumni did in the 1960s, 70s, and 80s,” Wagner explained.

“Patty Perillo and Ernest Jeffries have been primarily responsible for raising awareness of the weekend among students, and it does feel like the word has gotten out and that the buzz is building,” Wagner said. “I hope that we’ll have strong student participation in the panel discussion, and that they’ll reach out to the alumni that will be returning to campus that weekend to both honor their experiences from years before and to educate them about today’s student experience.”