THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009

Interview with Professor Rona Munro
Ben IRELAND
Senior Staff Writer

Each year the prestigious McGee Professorship allows Davidson College to host a scholarly writer, poet, or screenwriter for one academic semester. This spring, Davidson welcomes back world-renowned Scottish writer and playwright, Rona Munro, as the 08-09 McGee Professor of Creative Writing, who currently instructs both introductory and advanced playwriting. The Davidsonian recently had the opportunity to put our resident playwright under the spotlight for an interview, exploring Professor Munro’s remarkable personal achievements, her future plans, and, of course, her ever-witty humor.

Davidsonian: How has your adolescent background shaped both who you are and your manner of writing?
Munro: “Well, before everything, I was born in Aberdeen, Scotland. Surprisingly, my interest in writing and theatre started ridiculously young, considering that Scotland is not as exposed to theatre as much as other areas of Europe. My second cousin, quite a known writer, had always given me support in becoming a good writer; so I’d say that everything just really fell into place. Later, I was involved in the University of Edinburgh’s drama group. What’s funny is that I received my degree in History. You know, I learned so much about human nature through history that this helped shape my writing in so many ways. In short, it seems as if everything just took off from there.”

Davidsonian: Fascinating. Now, later you had the occasion to work with the BBC, BBC Radio, and Scottish Television. Could you share some of your reflections on these experiences?
Munro: “That’s quite correct. I was involved with the BBC, having written five or six television plays and three feature films for them. Along with the BBC and BBC Radio, I was involved with Scottish Television. Looking back, I was very fortunate that right after college, it was not long until I received word from the BBC and other networks that they wanted to feature my works. Later, during the mid-1990s I was also involved in film writing, for which two had earned Golden-Globe nominations for Best Foreign Film.”

Davidsonian: Incredible. May I ask what were the names of these two films?
Munro: “In 1994, it was “Ladybird, Ladybird,” which featured the struggles of a single mother. Later, in 1996, it was “Aimée and Jaguar,” a German drama set in World War II. Wait, wouldn’t this be on ‘IMDb?’”

Davidsonian: I see. Now, tell us about your collaboration with the Royal Shakespeare Company. What is the specific upcoming work that brought you together with the RSC?
Munro: “Yes, essentially, this was a project that was brought to Davidson last year through the RSC. It was actually through my collaboration with Davidson students during that time that allowed me to complete the writing of “Little Eagles.” Davidson has tremendously played a significant role in the completion of this project. What had happened was that the entire project was divided into three parts, and the first play of this trilogy, “Little Eagles,” will be presented in Stratford-upon-Avon in 2011.”

Davidsonian: Apart from “Little Eagles,” are you currently working on something in particular?
Munro: “In fact, yes I am currently working on a series of projects with, of course, the BBC, the Manhattan Theatre Company as well as the Natural Theatre Company in London. You know, what’s quite humorous is that I tell my students the extreme importance of deadlines. Sometimes I have to remind myself what I so ardently tell my students.”

Davidsonian: Finally, on Monday, February 9th, you will be giving a lecture at Tyler-Tallman Hall. Could you provide us with a little sneak preview on what you will cover that night?
Munro: “Who doesn’t like sneak peeks? Absolutely. I will be commenting on my overall development as a writer in response to the audiences I have met. Audiences have played a significant role in playwriting, so I'll explore how that contact has structured my craft. The rewriting process, as I always say, is never over until I get the audience’s reaction.”

Tomorrow, February 5th, Munro will lecture in the newly-renovated Armour Street Theatre in Davidson, co-sponsored by the Davidson Community Players. Munro’s on-campus lecture will take place Monday, February 9th, in Tyler-Tallman Hall in the Sloan Music Building from 7:30 to 9:00 pm.

‘Rent’ playing at Blumenthal Center
STACIE BINNEY
Staff Writer

This past weekend, my friends and I trekked the long journey to Charlotte for what might have been the culminating moment of my musical theatre experience. Let me explain. I’ve never been a Rent fan. Not in the typical sense, anyway. I’ve seen most of the movie and enjoy the soundtrack (although, when it comes down to it, I could probably only name six songs). The story has always been interesting and enjoyable; I had just never jumped completely on that bandwagon over three years ago when the movie first came out. Last Friday, however, things changed. I bought a ticket, thinking it would be an exciting new way to spend a Friday night. My friends and I packed into the Oven Theatre for a night out on the town, knowing that a few cast members from the movie would be involved. When actor Anthony Rapp first appeared as Mark, the artsy filmmaker living in New York’s Lower East Side during the AIDS epidemic in theLate 80’s and early 90’s, the crowd went nuts. He was closely followed by Adam Pascal as Roger, his guitar-toting friend with HIV, both of whom starred in the 2005 film version of this play written by Jonathan Larson. It was more than exciting to see the same faces as in the movie, and even more thrilling to hear the distinctive, belting voices of Rapp and Pascal, both of whom absolutely couldn’t be replaced in any reproductive showing. While recognizing how lucky we were to watch these two talented actors, by the second act, we were floored. The performances by Justin Johnston and Lexi Lawson, Angel and Mimi, respectively, were unparalleled. I have yet to see the movie more than once and maybe another half, but all Mimi’s solos gave me goosebumps, especially the pseudo-elegiac “Without You.” With Mimi on a table surrounded by a lost, confused Roger and an imposing AIDS-infected Angel, the song tugged at our hearts, while displaying the inevitability of life’s continuance without the people you love. Angel was completely endearing, especially his relationship with AIDS-infected Tom Collins played by Michael McElroy. His smooth, R&B voice blended perfectly together with Angel’s fun-loving, optimistic attitude in “I’ll Cover You,” which I had never before seen but absolutely brought tears to my eyes. For the widely popular “Seasons of Love,” we were enthralled to hear another Rent original Gwen Stewart as Mrs. Jefferson as the soloist. Her strong voice and perfect stage presence added a musical quality to the song that brought out its most intimate qualities of love, hope, and optimism in a time of darkness. “The characters’ costuming was perfect, I thought,” said Tessa Campbell ’11 who ventured with me last Friday. Mark’s scarf, Mimi’s brightly colored spandex, and Roger’s plaid pants all lent a certain quality to the main characters that emphasized their poverty and personality. Even in the ensemble roles, the worn clothing and distinctive apparel created a time-piece within the play. “Everything was so perfectly created, I wish I could see it again,” said Campbell. I completely agree; Rent provided a perfect way to experience an alternate reality, a way of connecting with different lifestyles and conceptions of which I will never be a part. I found myself feeling for the characters and yearning for the passions of each personality. Although Rent’s appearance with the Blumenthal Center ended last Sunday night, if this play ever comes to your surrounding area in the near future, I strongly recommend attending. It will provide the ideals of courage and optimism in the midst of darkness. Or, at the very least, give you an exciting night out from Davidson’s nightlife monotony.

— Courtney Tope, Staff Writer

Meet Thomas Jasterzbski, aka the Jasterblaster; a 5’8”, 165-lb. freshman wrestler. Around campus, we already know that Tom can sport a singlet and destroy his competition on the mats. However, there is more to Jasterzbski than his wrestling abilities; he is also a very talented singer. He started performing in middle school choir and has developed a voice that is so good that he caught the attention of the American Idol judges. For Jasterzbski, wrestling and singing have always gone hand in hand. Jasterzbski began wrestling in the second grade and quickly became familiar with the demands associated with the sport. When the pressure of winning and the stress of cutting weight became too overwhelming, Jasterzbski discovered that singing was a good way to clear his mind. “Singing became an outlet for me,” Jasterzbski said. Jasterzbski took advantage of every opportunity to sing. In middle school, he sang in the choir, and in high school, he joined an a cappella group called Migoroso. Not only did Jasterzbski make the group the first time he auditioned, but he was awarded a solo as a sophomore. Solos were typically reserved for upperclassmen, so getting one the first year he was part of the group was a huge accomplishment. The time Jasterzbski spent with Migoroso made him realize his true passion for music and inspired him to learn how to play an instrument. During the winter of his senior year, Jasterzbski taught himself how to play the guitar. “I figured since I loved music so much, I might as well play an instrument,” Jasterzbski said.

The summer after his senior year, American Idol came to audition at the Izod Center in Jasterzbski’s hometown of Montville, New Jersey. When one of his classmates called and asked if he wanted to audition with her, he decided he might as well give it a shot. The audition process was exhausting. He arrived at the Izod Center around 7 a.m., and 11 hours later it was finally his turn to sing. “Sitting there for 11 hours, I think I saw about 60-70 people, good people, go through out of 15,000,” said Jasterzbski. “I was getting nervous because I kept thinking I don’t belong here.” Despite his self-doubt, Jasterzbski proved that he did belong there by impressing the producers with his performance of “Wanted Dead or Alive.” Typically, auditioners are only allowed to perform for 20 seconds; however, the judges allowed Jasterzbski to finish his entire song. “They told me they liked my style and then asked me to sing a second song,” Jasterzbski said. “I was thinking maybe I got their interest.” For his second performance, Jasterzbski sang “Hallelujah.”