THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2009

Rusk Eating House in support of Barium Springs’ Strengthening Families program.
Patricia Reip
Staff Writer

An entertaining combination of lava lamps, Furbies, Converse sneakers, flowers, and VHS tapes adorned Lily Gallery this past Saturday. Part of Rusk House’s highly successful Dancing Through the Decades service event, these decorations led students and community members alike down memory lane. The college and community-wide dance, organized by Lauren Leathers ’12 and Lorena Perez ’12, offered a refreshing break from the typical Patterson Court parties. Not only were the decorations different, but so was the music. From 7 to 8 pm, '30s music filled the gallery to the delight of sock-hoppers everywhere.

Davidson’s government, however, is skeptical even though it is less expensive than the alternative option. The road design would force a lower speed limit, and the government suggests that drivers will not follow this lower speed limit and many traffic issues would likely interfere with the Barbee mitigation system. In fact, according to Tom Barbee, the presence of his large tractors on the road...

Last Saturday night, students and community members enjoyed “Dancing Through the Decades,” a charity ball thrown by acapella group, The Generals, decked out in leather jackets, hair gel, and white T-shirts. They delivered a smooth performance of “In the Still of the Night,” to the delight of an admiring crowd. Tunes from the ’60s played during the next hour, as students dressed like hippies in tie-dye and peace symbols swarmed the dance floor. Disco fever dominated from 9 to 10, bringing back memories from the ’70s. The last hour of the dance was split between the ’80s and ’90s and included performances by Androgyny and The Delilahs. The last song, “I Gotta Feeling” by the Black Eyed Peas, represented not only our current decade but the night as a whole.

Laughter, smiles, crazy costumes, and ridiculous dance moves characterized the evening. More than one dancer broke out a moonwalk, as several others displayed their robot skills. Shrieks of joy ensued as the opening notes of “Thriller” played, resulting in a massive demonstration of Michael Jackson’s dance moves. The electric slide, YMCA, and Macarena also brought dancers onto the floor. Many attendees also showed up in creative costumes. Some crowd favorites included Olivia Bowers, ’12, in a Marilyn Monroe dress, a black Madonna-esque tutu, bright tights and leg warmers, and even a sailor suit! Prizes, which included crazy hats, crowns, and inflatable electric guitars, were awarded to the best dressed and best dancing individuals of each decade. An ice cream booth with a delicious range of toppings offered dancers a sweet treat between songs. Snacks from every decade also provided much-needed sustenance and energy for all the dancing kings and queens on the floor. Considered one of the best nights yet at Davidson by numerous attendees, Dancing Through the Decades not only provided a fun-filled evening for dancers, but...helped jump-start a new program at Barium Springs Children’s Home. Tickets were sold for $5 apiece during the week leading up to the event and $8 at the door. All proceeds were donated to Barium Springs Children’s Home for Strengthening Families, a program designed to assist troubled families. Overall, the night provided fun for a great cause.

Alpha’s go live
BRENNA KELLY
Staff Writer

Tomorrow night at 10 pm in the Union 900 Room, the Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity will be hosting and participating in this week’s Live Thursday. This event, which has been completely organized by members of the fraternity, will showcase the assorted talent of the brothers of Alpha Phi Alpha. Eddison Wilkinson ’12, award-winning member of the Davidson Show, will be emceeing the event. The participants will include Damion Samuels ’12, Justin Hua ’11, Jordan Starck ’12, Andrew Humphrey ’10, Seyi Ayorinde ’10, Clint Smith ’10, Brandon Wright ’10, and PK Kyei ’12, all of whom are members of Alpha.

The brothers of the Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity devote much of their time to participating in community service. “We have guys who volunteer at Ada Jenkins, Cornelius Elementary, through Big Brothers/Big Sisters, and beyond,” Smith said. “We have several upcoming service projects that we plan on holding, including a tie drive that will benefit those attempting to re-enter the workforce, working with the Anthony Foxx mayoral campaign in Charlotte, as well as holding a health-food fair later in the semester.”

However, while the Alphas continue to emphasize the importance of service, they are excited for the opportunity to present their talented members to the Davidson campus tomorrow. There will be an assortment of performances during the hour-long function. Seyi Ayorinde, Brandon Wright, and Andrew Humphrey, all of whom are either current or former members of the Generals, will be singing various songs both together and individually. There will be a step routine performed by several of the participants, and Damion Samuels will be performing a solo hip-hop performance. Many of the participants are looking forward to the step routine and believe that while it holds sentimental value for the young men in the fraternity, the audience will be equally captivated.

“If people thought watching the Neos [new members] step during their coming out show last year was entertaining, then wait until they see the Neos and the Prophytes come together for their first public show together. The show will be that much colder,” Starck said.

In addition to musical and dance routines, Live Thursday will also exhibit several spoken poetry performances by Starck, Smith, and Samuels. The three men are members of Smith’s spoken word poetry group, called “Freeword.” Freeword is a new group on the Davidson campus that focuses on spoken word and performance poetry. “The poetry we write is geared towards being heard by an audience more so than being read from a page,” Smith said. “Spoken word itself is kind of a combination of drama, prose, hip-hop, and poetry all rolled into one. I guess you could say that organization-wise, we’re crafted in the same type of mold as the a cappella groups on campus, except that we focus on poetry instead of singing.”

The members of Freeword will be having a major show at the end of November, but for a preview and to enjoy a variety of other performances by talented Alpha Phi Alpha members, check out Live Thursday tomorrow at 10!