THE DAVIDSONIAN

Supporting Obama is Un-American?

On Politics

Here is one thing I know for sure: ever since George W. Bush left presidential office, the Republican brand of
politics has grown more emotional and desperate. The once great party of Lincoln has been strongly diminished by failed policy
and a young Kennedyesque Democrat from Chicago who ran a revolutionary campaign in 2008. The emotional political mantra of the
Republicans has finally crept its way into our Davidsonian.

I suppose that this is a response to Ryan Gough’s article that called me un-American, but it is less about
what he said and more about what he epitomizes. I accept Mr. Gough’s constructive criticism, but I do think that
supporting the President is simply as American as apple pie. I think that Mr. Gough’s article is representative of a
brand of political behavior that transcends conventional debate and allows emotion and distrust to penetrate traditional politics. Whether it be
attacking President Obama’s stimulus package, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the President’s support of health care reform, the fierce
opposition to the President telling public school children to stay in school, or Mr. Gough telling me that I am
un-American for writing a college newspaper editorial advocating support of the President, the Republican brand of politics has gone severely
awry.

Emotional attacks are not what the American people expect of their politicians. I truly believe that we should support debate
on the issues. Representatives at every level should go into their jobs with an open mind; what could be more
fundamental than this? Ultimately, to be called un-American for supporting the President is the climax of such a misinformed, fear-driven,
emotional debate. It is the sort of emotion that caused Representative Joe Wilson to actually heckle the President of the
United States during a joint session of Congress two weeks ago. It is a shame that support of the President
and the Democratically controlled Congress is deemed to be unpatriotic, and it is fiercely hypocritical to do so now that
President Bush is out of office and President Obama is in.

I remember various occasions where the President (Bush II) demanded public support from the American people whether they agreed with
his views or not. He would imply that internally, we can disagree and dissent as the byproduct of democracy, but
on the world stage, the American people must appear unified and strong. This is a pressing issue given the advent
of the 24-hour news cycle, which vividly describes the politics within most countries. Whatever the case, it is a tragedy
when supporting our leaders is considered by anybody to be the wrong thing to do.

AP Photo Release Inappropriate

The mainstream media is having a tough summer and fall. Their refusal, inability, and (in the case of ABC’s Charlie
Gibson) ignorance to report on ACORN, the President’s Czars, the Tea Parties, etc., has left them taking heat and losing
viewers and readers. Recently, the Associated Press, while ignoring plenty of stories, chose to publish one particular image that really
exposes its true character.

An AP photographer, Julie Jacobson, embedded with the Marines in Southern Afghanistan, was witness to a Taliban ambush in early
August. On Friday, August 14, Golf Company of the 2nd Battalion, 3rd Marines was rooting out the enemy near a
pomegranate grove. Suddenly, the patrol was rocked by rocket-propelled grenades and gunfire. An RPG from the first barrage hit the
point man, twenty-one-year-old Lance Corporal Joshua M. Bernard. The explosive blew off one of his legs and shredded the other.
The AP photographer, a witness to this hell, managed to snap a photograph of the young Marine lying mortally wounded
on the battlefield. The image and battle details became part of a story titled “Death of A Marine,” which was
published in various newspapers and online on September 4.

Now, is it shocking that the AP would do such a thing? No, but that does not make it any
less reprehensible or disgraceful. From the AP’s point of view, even though their actions were shameful, their timing was spot
on. Before publishing the image, the AP looked for approval outside of their company but found none. Not only did
Secretary of Defense Robert Gates call the image’s publication “appalling,” but he also asked the AP’s president to prevent the
publication. He further stated, “The issue here is not law, policy, or Constitutional right — but judgment and common decency.”
I can think of very few times I have been prouder of a political appointee. The AP ignored the noble
requests of the Secretary of Defense and the wishes of Lance Cpl. Bernard’s family.alone “un-American.” I stand by my editorial,
“Let Obama Work,” from the Davidsonian two weeks ago. I implore people to stand by the President of the United
States as he struggles to motivate the people’s representatives to pass reforms that would insure between 30 and 50 million
uninsured Americans and set this country on the right track. The President’s promises are sound and following his vision will
lead to a prosperous time in American history. The emotional political mantra of the Republicans has finally crept its way
into our Davidsonian. I say trust the President. Trust his visions, trust his ideals, and trust his patriotism and good
intentions because no leader has ever entered his position with hostility in his heart. Nobody — Republican, Democrat or Independent
— is out to hurt the image of the United States of America. My point is that our leaders and
we, the constituents, are all hoping for the best, and there are multiple roads that lead to prosperity. Right now,
President Obama is advocating just one of those paths, and it is our job as citizens of the United States
of America to give him a chance. In the end, we gave President Bush a chance in 2003 and the
failed policies of Iraq, Afghanistan, tax-cuts and increased spending left our country on the brink for the new president. Let
Obama get America back on track, let’s not be so cynical about our politicians, and let’s hope that they still
have enough fire in their bellies to create real change for our country.

Scott Matthews ’13 is undeclared. He is from Greenwich, CT. Contact him at samatthews@davidson.edu.

Bernard’s family. The AP showed Mr. Bernard (ex-Marine and father) the image. He, too, requested that image not be published.
The AP has never been an organization which supports the United States Military. The AP, trying to justify their immorality,
noted that while they stomped on the interests of the family, they were compassionate enough to hold the image’s publication
until after Lance Cpl. Bernard’s burial. From the AP’s point of view, even though their actions were shameful, their timing
was spot on. It is incomprehensible as to why the AP chose to publish the image, but I guarantee it
has nothing to do with their statement explaining they have a “journalistic duty to show the reality.” How? Because in
2005-6, the AP refused to publish the Danish cartoons depicting Mohammed even as the Islamic world showed its commitment to
being a religion of peace by rioting. The AP stated that they “don’t distribute content that is known to be
offensive.” To sum up the notably secular AP: cartoons of Mohammed — offensive; an image of a Marine in his
worst, most private moment — journalistic duty. How the AP managed this reasoning is beyond me. Finding the photo offensive,
the father of the Marine specifically told the AP not to publish the image and yet they still thought it
acceptable for public display. Somehow, the AP’s duty to reality did not apply to displaying the images that were apparently
causing Muslims to throw firebombs at the Danish Embassy. The AP has never been an organization which supports the United
States Military. While ignoring all the benefits of the military, including the press’s beloved freedom, the AP has always been
quick to jump on stories of alleged American atrocities, even while employing journalists with terrorist sympathies. As for the Bernard
family, I hope they do not let the AP’s treatment of their son prevent the recognition of the Lance Cpl.’s
honor. The AP’s disgrace is neither the Bernard’s nor their son’s.

Bobby DesPain ’11 is a biology major from St. Louis, MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2009

CHARLIE REITER, Mauricio Sums, a. Mark MitLarp § Bi ete ‘pulled over: for: di ipity to di of the Church
and Don Quixot battling oppressive windmills, it is our right and duty t shed. light on the unchallenged police: regime
recentl :put in place. Because one student was. seen, removing: enail polish, with 194’ proof rubbing alcohol from. CVS RLO
has declared a State of Emergency which has led to. idespread abuses of power. f 21 3 years. of age;
upped on. his shoelaces on route to th Outpost: and, was falsely accu ed ‘of being intoxicated wo Police meee
put. Steve’ in a Greco-Roman arm mae child behind this.reformation of t ‘the polic pre is their new golden boysbetter
known SoH soe th N7 student caught, ie and nceet imm ediatel : sased and. desisted upon spying eee y
jibe dable_ from Bowie, ‘Maryland. Mark: “the . Shark Millard. /undeclared,He is from Oak Pond, North Carolina,: INSe
