10. THE DAVIDSONIAN

CHRIS YOUNG
Staff Writer

Who will be this year’s Davidson? It’s a question we’ve heard all season, with answers ranging from Davidson to St. Mary’s to Butler to W. Kentucky. Every commentator had a long list of potential Davidsons. While it may be a long time before another team even similar to Davidson’s 2008 version comes along, a strong mid-major tends to make a long run in the NCAA Tournament fairly frequently. Teams like 2006’s George Mason Patriots have made runs to the Final Four. Even smaller programs like Hampton in 2001 have shocked the world with an upset over a top ten team.

Why do we watch? Many of us watch to see which mid-major will emerge as the next Cinderella story. All things being equal, we would rather see David try to take down Goliath with one-tenth the budget and nowhere near the clout. The NCAA Tournament draws strong ratings every year because people fill out brackets trying to predict upsets. The drama is unmatched.

All of which brings us to this year’s selection committee and first round. The committee handed out at-large tournament bids to four (yes, four) teams that do not hail from BCS leagues. That number pales in comparison to past figures but actually fits in line with declining love for the smaller programs. Many analysts predicted George Mason’s run and the success of other at-large mid-majors in 2006 would help the little guy in the future. The effect has been the opposite. Large schools in the BCS conferences have no desire to see their territory taken over by the little guys. Perennial bubble schools like Florida State or Mississippi State cannot stand seeing their bids taken by schools that routinely do more with less.

So, the selection committee reacted as the major schools wanted. No longer, they said, will we give the mid-majors a fair shot at bids. They decided to completely forget that major conference teams play very few road games. Analysts like Jay Bilas, who supports the current system, say that the process is not meant to be fair. Why shouldn’t it be? I have previously ranted in this column about the lack of true road games played by power schools. While Florida St. gets eight chances against ACC competition on its home floor each season, Davidson gets zero. Neutral games, which happen infrequently, are simply not the same. If Bilas disagrees, let’s have Duke play UNC in Raleigh’s Reynolds Coliseum instead of Cameron Indoor. What would they say then?

By excluding the mid-majors and further tilting the system in favor of the power conferences, the NCAA is killing its golden goose. Last year’s final between top seeds Kansas and Memphis rated horribly. By contrast, Davidson’s matchup against Kansas in the regional final was a home run.

This season, there were several mid-majors with compelling resumes. Chief among them was Davidson’s NIT foe St. Mary’s (CA), which went 20-2 and was in line for a single-digit seed with star Patty Mills in the lineup. When Mills got hurt, they stumbled to a 6-3 record. That, however, should not have mattered. Mills was back and ready by tournament time, evidenced by his 27-point explosion in the first round of the NIT.

The 2009 NCAA Tournament has seen very few upsets. Cinderella was left waiting at the ball, and no small schools have advanced. The tournament committee is pointing to a seeding job well done. But why was this tournament different? Every previous tournament has had upsets. Was it because the better seeds showed up and played better? Possibly, but I doubt it. By handing all of the at-large bids to power-conference teams with mediocre records, the

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2009

Baseball vs. Appalachian State
Fri. at 7 p.m., Sat. 2 p.m., Sun at 1 p.m.
Wilson Field

After playing six of their last seven games on the road, the Wildcats return home to Wilson Field to take on rival Appalachian State in a Southern Conference weekend series. The Mountaineers are coached by former Wildcat pitcher Chris Pollard ‘96.

Outside the Den

One of Davidson’s chief flaws was an 18-point loss to Purdue. Ohio State, in the tourney as a No. 8 seed, lost to Purdue by 25. The ’Cats’ neutral-court win over West Virginia? Compare it to Ohio State’s 28-point home loss to the same squad. Davidson’s loss was crippling. Its win was discounted. Ohio State was not treated similarly. They got more chances. Fortunately, the Buckeyes responded with a first-round loss to mid-major Siena, anyway.

CBS does not have a six billion dollar NCAA contract to watch mediocre big teams duke it out.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

it out. The people want upsets and want to see David v. Goliath. If the trend of discounting small schools continues, the ratings and money will speak for themselves.

San Antonio at New Orleans
Sun. @ 8:00 p.m., ESPN
The slumping Spurs travel to New Orleans to take on Chris Paul and the Hornets as both teams continue to jockey for playoff position in the Western Conference.

Baseball, from page 1
Davidson’s first game of the series was different. The Wildcats gave up six runs over the first two innings and struggled to make this gap up the entire game, losing 7-5 in the end. Pat Brady ’09 was one of the few bright spots in the lineup. Brady went two for three with two runs and one run batted in including an RBI double to deep left center. On the mound, Thomas Middour ’10 struggled in Friday’s game. He gave up five runs (three earned) on seven hits in five innings. The bullpen was another bright spot for the Wildcats. The Wildcat trio of Matt Sliwiak ’11, Mac Hunter ‘11, and Matt Webb opened the door for a Davidson comeback by each pitching one inning of scoreless relief over the final three frames, but the Davidson lineup was unable to manufacture the necessary two runs to tie the game and dropped the first game of the weekend series.

The Wildcats also lost the second game of their series on Saturday, 4-2. A fifth inning grand slam by Wofford produced all the runs they would need to take the game and the weekend series. Catcher Seth Freeman provided all of the Wildcats' offense on Saturday, driving in the lone two runs with a solo shot in the top of the 5th and an RBI groundout in the 6th inning. Freeman finished two for four with 1 run and two runs batted in on the day. His individual effort was not enough to overcome Wofford’s grand slam and avoid the series loss. Chris Lamb ’12 took the loss for the Wildcats after allowing three runs on four hits in four and one-third innings.

Davidson returned home following their series with Wofford and lost a heartbreaking 11-inning duel with Wake Forest 13-11 on Tuesday. Davidson staged a late rally but Wake’s Weldon Woodall put the game away with a two-run home run in the top of the 11th. Danny Weiss and Pat Brady continued to hit the ball well against Wake Forest. Weiss went three for six with one run and three runs batted in while Brady finished three for four with two runs and four runs batted in. The Wildcats dropped below .500 again in the loss to Wake Forest on Tuesday and now stand at an overall record of (9-10). The team will look to make it back to this .500 mark on Wednesday in another non-conference game against Gardner Webb.

Unfortunately, as Longwood dropped in five straight in the last 13 minutes of control of ground balls, owning Davidson's 18. Coming off a four-game winning streak will undoubtedly be a challenging and competitive match for the “Cats who are seeking some experience in lacrosse.

Baseball
Results:
3/20 @ Wofford L 5-7

Men’s Basketball
Results:
3/23 @ St. Mary’s L 68-80

Men’s Tennis (9-10, 4-3)
Results:
3/21 @ Furman L 0-7

Lacrosse
Results:
3/18 vs. Marist L 9-11
3/21 @ Longwood L 5-10
3/22 @ Wofford W 16-8

Track and Field
Results:
3/20-3/21 Charlotte 49er Classic

Women’s Tennis (5-9, 1-2)
Results:
3/21 @ Western Carolina W 7-0
3/23 vs. UIC L 3-4
3/23 vs. Brown L 1-6

Next Up:
3/24 vs. Wake Forest L 11-13
End of Season

Next Up:
3/28 Weems Baskin Relays @ University of South Carolina

Next Up:
3/28 vs. UNCG
3/28 @ Lehigh
3/27 vs. Cal State
3/28 @ Chattanooga
3/29 @ Samford
3/27-3/29 vs. App. State

Notes:
The sixth-seeded Wildcats concluded their season with an 80-68 loss at St. Mary’s College in the second round of the NIT. Seniors Andrew Lovedale ’09, Can Civi ’09, and Max Paulhus Gosselin ’09 played their final games for Davidson.

Notes:
After a pair of losses last week, the ’Cats look to get back on track as they return to Southern Conference play when they face UNCG on Friday. Danny Weiss ’11 went 4-5 with 5 RBIs in Sunday’s 16-8 Southern Conference victory over Wofford.

Notes:
Alison Ruah ’11 recorded the ‘Cats’ only point with a victory in #3 singles in Monday’s loss to Brown. Ruah has now won her last three singles matches.

Notes:
Kennesia Martin ’09 broke her own school record in the triple jump at the Charlotte 49er Classic over the weekend. Her jump of 11.70 meters earned runner-up honors in the event.