6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

STACIE BINNEY
Staff Writer

When first walking into Thai Marlai, my friends and I were skeptical. We were greeted nicely and escorted immediately to
a table, which we didn’t expect with seven of us. Yet besides a couple and a small family, we were
the only ones there during dinner on a Friday night. The atmosphere was nice: small, quiet, and filled with brown
wooden tables and folded napkins. Our waitresses were kind and efficient, and we received our menus promptly. However, the quiet
nature of the restaurant had us placing orders quickly, not knowing what to expect.

Once the food arrived, however, all our worries evaporated. Several of us started with a soup. One option was Tom
Kha, a coconut cream soup with lemongrass and mushrooms. Another, Tom Yum, was a sweet and sour soup with mushrooms.
Each soup could be filled with your choice of vegetables, meat, or seafood and ranged from $3 a bowl to
$15 for a much larger “hot pot.” Other appetizers included steam rolls, calamari, chicken and ginger dumplings, and many other
offerings for only $6 to $8 per dish. Salads consisted of spicy sour lettuce wraps or duck salad with mixed
vegetables. Considering the large portion size, these are great for sharing as an appetizer or completely filling as a meal.

The appetizers or entrees are made with different levels of spices: mild, medium, or hot. At the top of the
menu, the restaurant claimed, “Thai Marlai is dedicated to the presentation of authentic Thai cooking,” with the added note that
the only compromised value of the authenticity consisted of allowing their customers to choose the level of spices. Entrees were
divided into seafood dishes, stir-fried dishes, noodles, and specials. The night we visited, specials included a roasted duck with chili
and basil and pineapple fried rice with chicken and shrimp. Both were under $18, which we thought was affordable and
reasonable for the quality and quantity of food.

Within the stir-fry section, your basic Pad-Thai was available. This dish could be prepared with shrimp, squid, scallops, beef, chicken,
pork, tofu, or the seafood combo. The tofu dish was the cheapest at $10 and the seafood combo was the
most expensive at $15. I spent less than $20 on my whole meal and couldn’t finish everything; most of my
friends found the same thing true with their meals. “The food was excellent,” Molly Duncan '11 said. Veronica Thomas ’11
also commented on her meal. “My salad was reasonably priced, and the portion size was perfect or even a little
too much, and I loved the coconut cream soup,” she said.

We also received exceptional service on our night out. The restaurant allows you to sit at a counter when you’re
finished with your meal, which means less time waiting for a check if you’re stressed for time. When we paid,
the waitress joked with us and remained friendly from the time we arrived to the time we left. She offered
us

BEN IRELAND
Senior Staff Writer

I remember recently stepping out of a Hollister fitting room and being enveloped by two things: the overwhelming whiff of
JAKE cologne and the catchiness of a particular song. Handing my merchandise to the cashier, I inquired about the melodic
tune. The cashier looked at me coquettishly. “Dude, it’s by Death Cab for Cutie,” she said. As I researched this
band, I became immediately spellbound by their unique approach to music.

Grammy-nominated Death Cab for Cutie is an indie rock band that formed in Bellingham, Wash. in 1997. In the spring
of 1999, Ben Gibbard, Death Cab’s soon-to-be lead singer, started a musical side project and produced several self-written pieces on
cassette. Gibbard’s first album, “You Can Play These Songs with Chords,” was such a hit that he decided to expand
his solo project to a complete band. Eventually, Gibbard collaborated with Chris Walla, Death Cab’s future guitarist, along with Nick
Harmer, as bass guitarist, and Nathan Good, as drummer. The band, which takes its name from a title song from
the Beatles’ 1967 film “Magical Mystery Tour,” officially formed at Western Washington University. In August 1998, the group released the
LP “Something About Airplanes,” which received positive reviews in the independent music scene. In 2000, Death Cab put forthmints and
take-home menus as well. “I think our server really made the difference with the whole experience,” said Bri Pearson '11.
With an easy-to-find location behind the Starbucks off Exit 28, Thai Marlai truly provides the service and quality of what
you would expect in a Thai restaurant. By the end of our night, my friends and I were completely satisfied
and would definitely return.

Courtesy photo: Death Cab for Cutie will perform at Belk Arena on Apr. 9. Tickets are $30 for the general
public and cost $20 for Davidson students. “We Have the Facts and We’re Voting Yes,” another strong hit that placed
this band in the spotlight. Death Cab signed with major label Atlantic Records after a series of changes in drummers
and the releases of three widely acclaimed albums. Under Atlantic, Death Cab released “Plans,” receiving a nomination for the Grammy
Award for Best Alternative Album of 2005. Later in 2006, “Plans” achieved Gold Status after it remained on Billboard’s charts
for 47 consecutive weeks. The album officially reached platinum status last summer. After the success of “Plans,” Death Cab pushed
along with a touring DVD called “Drive Well, Sleep Carefully.” Proceeds from the endeavor went to the animal rights group
PETA. Death Cab released their latest album “Narrow Stairs” last May. This compilation received mixed reviews, most of which were
positive, from MTV, Rolling Stone, and Time Magazine. Rolling Stone, which rated “Narrow Stairs” four out of five stars, said,
“‘Narrow Stairs’ is as dark as anything the band has done.” Furthermore, MTV added, “This album is unquestionably the best
thing Death Cab has ever done.” “Narrow Stairs” has sold over 475,000 copies and was nominated for the Best Alternative
Music Album award at the 51st Grammy Awards. Personally, I find that “Narrow Stairs” resembles a mélange of old school
Jimmy Eat World, R.E.M., and Mediavolo (minus the female vocals, of course). The use of organs and glockenspiels throughout the
album gives each song a unique personality. The song I first heard in Hollister, “No Sunlight,” is by far my
favorite. Other compelling tunes include “Your New Twin Sized Bed,” and Gibbard’s love eulogy “The Ice is Getting Thinner.” The
tracks are quite easy on the ear, allowing all listeners to become immersed in the poetic world Gibbard creates. I
highly recommend “Narrow Stairs” to everyone not only for its outstanding musical caliber but also for its ability to grow
on listeners. Death Cab will visit Davidson on Apr. 9 to headline this year’s spring concert in Belk Arena. “I’m
really excited to see Death Cab,” Alexis Valauri-Orton ’12 said. “Death Cab is from my home state, and I’ve grown
up listening to their music. The concert is going to be amazing!” Tickets are only $20 for Davidson students and
$30 for the general public. Come check out Death Cab for Cutie in April for one of the best concert
groups touring the country today.

Wed. 2/11
Thur. 2/12
Fri. 2/13
Sat. 2/14
Sun. 2/15
Mon. 2/16
Tue. 2/17

Academic Policy
Dean Rusk SAC
Berklee College Jazz
Davidson Farmer’s Market
Echo Early Music Residency Concert
Dr. Sean Carroll, Prof. of Microbiology
Mike Super: Magic and Illusion
Forum, 7-8:00 p.m.
Breakfast Series 9-11:00 a.m.
3:00 p.m. St. Albans Episcopal Church
“Remarkable Creatures,” 7:30 p.m. Duke Performance Hall
Next to Town Hall
8:00 p.m.
8-9:00 a.m. Int’l Lounge, Duke Dorm
Free Performance Hall
“The End of Food”
Build-A-Bear
“Davidson Express” Student Tickets: $8
7:30 p.m.
900 Room
Ursula Oppens Show
Davidson Green Ball
10:00 p.m.
Bluegrass Concert
Adrienne Dixson Lecture, Race and Education
Renowned Pianist
8-11:00 p.m.
900 Room
3:00 p.m. Charles Mack Citizens Center, Mooresville
7:00 p.m.
900 Room
Outpost Trivia Night
11:00 p.m.
Tyler-Tallman; students $5
Tickets: $10 in advance, $12 at door
Live Thursday: Oops
Poet Rick Barot
Kellin Watson Reading
Darwin’s Bday Party,
8-11:00 p.m. Summit
7:30 p.m. Sprinkle Rm.
6-8:00 p.m. Outpost
$10 tickets
