THE DAVIDSONIAN

Lee Wildcat Pulse SPORTS

Dayton flies by Wildcats 17-0

Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

Davidson’s football team suffered a disheartening setback against Dayton on Saturday, turning the ball over four times and falling to the league-leading Flyers 17-0.

The Wildcat defense repelled an early challenge from Dayton’s offense after the Flyers (5-1, 3-0) drove to the Davidson 12 with eight minutes to play in the opening quarter. Peter Kidwell ’12 intercepted Steve Valentino’s pass in the end zone to snuff out the Dayton effort. The interception was the first of Kidwell’s career.

The momentum did not continue for Davidson, however, and a special teams gaffe by the Wildcat punt team set up the game’s first points. Andrew Wohler’s ’11 punt was blocked by Kevin Burns, and the Flyers recovered at the Davidson 29 with eight minutes to play in the second quarter. Valentino found Justin Watkins for a touchdown pass on the next play to give Dayton a 7-0 lead.

Davidson’s offense fought back after the setback, driving to the Flyer 1 after Michael Blanchard ’11 connected with Jonathan Adams ’12 for a 28-yard reception. The Flyer defense stiffened in the shadow of their own goal line, however, and forced a Wildcat field goal attempt by Ben Behrendt ’11 that sailed wide left.

Dayton struck with their only long scoring drive of the game in the third quarter, driving 82 yards in nine plays to score on Valentino’s plunge from one yard out. His 44-yard completion to Watkins did most of the damage on the drive.

Down 14-0 in the fourth quarter, the Wildcat offense began to press. Backup quarterback Matt Heavner ’12 came on but threw an interception to Joe Ries with three minutes gone in the final quarter. Ries returned the ball to the Wildcat 22. Although the defense held and forced a field goal attempt, Nate Miller split the uprights with a 36-yard field goal that gave Dayton a commanding three-possession lead with ten minutes to play.

Unready to concede defeat, the Wildcats marched to the Flyer 23. The drive was keyed by two fourth-down conversions, including Wohler’s eight-yard scamper on a fake punt. The Flyer defense stiffened again, though, forcing a 41-yard field goal attempt that again sailed wide left and virtually ended Davidson’s chances of coming back. Heavner threw another interception to Ries with two and a half minutes to play to close the book on the game. Ries returned the ball to the Wildcat one, and although the Davidson defense performed admirably by stuffing the Flyers on four straight rushing attempts, Dayton was able to virtually run the clock out with those four plays.

The turnovers and missed field goals irked Wildcats coach Tripp Merritt, who said after the game that “you can’t make those mistakes and expect to win against a good team like Dayton.”

Blanchard led the Wildcat offense with 78 yards on 9-14 passing as well as 63 yards on 19 carries. Adams was Davidson’s leading receiver with three catches for 52 yards. Daniel Astrop ’11 led the Wildcat defense with 10 tackles and was followed closely by Tyler Lemons ’10 with nine.

Dayton was led by Valentino’s 10-18 passing for 145 yards and a score and his 77 yards on 19 carries and a score. Watkins was his favorite target, hauling in five passes for 106 yards and a score.

The loss was Davidson’s second close loss in three weeks after dropping a 27-21 decision to Jacksonville three weeks ago. It was also the third time the Wildcats have been shut out this season. The defeat came on the heels of a 16-10 victory over Morehead State over Fall Break. The Wildcats recovered five Eagle fumbles to facilitate the victory. Davidson’s big break came when the Eagles muffed a punt on their own 16 with ten minutes to play in the game and Gianni Ricci ’12 recovered for Davidson. Three plays later, Blanchard charged up the middle for a 20-yard run that broke a 10-10 tie and gave Davidson a lead it would not relinquish. Blanchard had also run for a 32-yard score earlier in the game and finished with 93 yards on 19 carries.

Davidson moved to 2-4 on the season and 2-2 in the Pioneer Football League. Next up on the docket for the Wildcats is a home game on Saturday against the Drake Bulldogs. Kickoff is scheduled for 1 p.m.

Michael Blanchard ’11 attempts a pass in the Wildcats’ 16-10 win over Morehead State on Oct. 10. In Saturday’s loss at Dayton, Blanchard accounted...for 141 yards of total offense as he passed for 78 yards and added another 63 yards rushing.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2009

’Cats drop road games at UNCG and Elon

ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

Men’s Soccer vs. Wofford
Saturday 7 p.m.
Alumni Stadium

The ’Cats continued their season of SoCon play this weekend with decisions against UNCG and Elon. The first match was against the Spartans as Davidson traveled to Greensboro for a Saturday afternoon match. The Spartans came out on top, winning in three games, 3-0 (25-20, 25-22, 25-14). Leading offensive players for the Wildcats included Sarabeth Peele ’11 with seven kills. Teammates Erin Lupfer ’12 and Madison Benedict ’12 each tallied six. Assisting was Hayley Lawson ’11, contributing 13 to the team’s offensive efforts. For the Davidson defense, Molly Crenshaw ’13 led the way with 15 digs.

The ’Cats continued their weekend of play with a Saturday decision against Elon. The Phoenix swept the match in three games, defeating Davidson 3-0 (25-21, 25-18, 27-25). Leading hitters for the team included Peele’s match high of 12 kills and Jorden Benedict ’11’s 10 kills. Anna Bradbury ’11 had 28 assists for the offense while Crenshaw once again led the defense with six digs.

Davidson continues their season this Friday with a home match against Western Carolina University. Come out and support the Cats at 7 p.m. as they will be playing their annual game for breast cancer awareness. The Terriers are the only remaining unbeaten team in SoCon play, but the Wildcats look to end Wofford’s unbeaten streak in an important Southern Conference match-up. Kentrel Owens leads Wofford with four goals while Charlie Reiter ’10 is Davidson’s team leader with nine goals.

Outside the Den

Minnesota (6-0) at Pittsburgh (4-2)
Heinz Field
Sunday 1 p.m.

Minnesota Vikings quarterback Brett Favre is 6-0 for the first time in his storied career, but Favre and the Vikings face another stern test as they travel to Heinz Field to take on Ben Roethlisberger and the defending Super Bowl Champions. The Steelers started 1-2, but have since won three in a row.

Head Coach Tim Cowie and the ’Cats are participating in the nationwide Dig Pink Breast Cancer Awareness.

Prosser D. “Sandy” Canepa has spent almost 30 years representing clients who have suffered substantial injuries due to another person's negligence or criminal conduct, always with the client’s best interest above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the law including contract preparation and review, residential and commercial closings, land development and acquisition as well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia. In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community. Sandy, a Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as a commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & A.M. and has coached youth football, basketball, and baseball in the Davidson, Cornelius, and Mooresville communities.

Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home

REAL ESTATE • WILLS & TRUSTS
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill)
Davidson, NC 28036 • (704) 892-1699 • www.mcintoshlawfirm.com
APPEALS • BANKRUPTCY • BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS • ESTATE PLANNING