2 THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009

Acclaimed travel writer Doug Lansky challenges, “Get Lost”

Katie Lovett
Staff Writer

“The traveler sees what he sees. The tourist sees what he comes to see.” This was the theme of acclaimed
travel writer and nationally syndicated columnist Doug Lansky’s lecture “Get Lost” on Monday in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room.
Using a wide array of photographs from his travels in more than 100 countries, Lansky conveyed his passion for exploring
the globe and his conviction that the most memorable travel experiences are often those found off the beaten path.

After graduating from Colorado College and holding internships at “Late Night with David Letterman,” “Spy Magazine” and “The New Yorker,”
Lansky declined a job from “The New Yorker” in favor of hitting the road for two years of travel. His
big break as a travel writer came with the syndication of his humor-adventure column “Vagabond” in 1995. Featured in over
40 national newspapers including the Chicago Tribune and the Charlotte Observer and with a readership of over 10 million, “Vagabond”
chronicled the seemingly fearless Lansky’s global exploits which included braving hotels in third world countries, mastering white water kayaking in
Chile, and pony trekking in South Africa.

Lansky is the author of the books “Last Trout in Venice” and “Up the Amazon without a Paddle” as well
as the editor of a travel-humor anthology, “There’s No Toilet Paper on the Road Less Travelled.” All of these titles
hint at the travel writer’s sense of humor and passion for experiencing travel in an unfiltered and uninhibited manner. In
other words, you won’t find Lansky trudging through lengthy tours of renowned museums or adhering to an itinerary replete with
mainstream tourist destinations. This veteran traveler claims “there is no such thing as the must-sees. It’s about taking your time
and enjoying the journey, not just getting to your destination. Travel isn’t just about racking up the passport stamps.”

Using his slideshow to illustrate his point, Lansky challenged the audience to think about travel in a new light. Case
in point: for Lansky, crossing the desert on camel back in Africa was much more memorable than snapping the cliché
touristy picture in front of Big Ben. “Think of things you’ve always loved to do,” Lansky encouraged. “Take a cooking
course at the Cordon Bleu in Paris, take a gondola driving course in Venice, take as many authentic looking types
of transportation as possible, take in Carnival in Brazil, try on fantastic costumes, run from the bulls in Pamplona.” In
Lansky’s opinion, integrating yourself into a destination through the pursuit of your individual passions will result in not only a
better appreciation and stronger understanding of the culture, but also in organic friendships with the locals.

Lansky also hosted a travel documentary for the Discovery Channel/Travel Channel, which earned him the opportunity to visit the Ocean
Dome, the largest indoor beach in the world, located in Japan. Interestingly enough, this manmade beach complete with crushed white
marble sand and surfable yet undertow-free waves is a mere 300 meters from the natural beach. Although Lansky is well
versed in the wonders of the world and has visited many touristy venues such as this one, he said that
“the best thing out there is thepeople that you meet.” Travel is a subject- Career Service Career Fair Noon- 3:00
PM September 23rd, 2009 tive experience, unique to each traveler since the mentality behind every carefully planned (or not) international
excursion depends on what you are looking for. According to Lansky, “it may be some place you’ve seen in a
postcard, some place from a movie, the most picturesque town, a secret spot, the cheapest beer, a souvenir to remind
you where you’ve been, a new language or pushing yourself to new heights.” Rather than inspiring his audience and then
leaving them to navigate the globe alone, Lansky acknowledged some of the doubts that may arise in zealous yet inexperienced
travelers. It may take some time to adjust to trekking around the world with his recommendation of only a 45-liter
backpack and a negligible wardrobe selection. “Travel is a little bit like driving a car,” Lansky concluded. “At first you’re
terrible but pretty soon you’ve got the whole thing going, you’re working the gas and the clutch and the brakes,
and holding a Diet Coke between your legs.” Adopting this mentality very well may lead you to some outlandish encounters.
See Lansky, page 4

Union Atrium Wake, 3678

Employers:
American Cancer Society
American Red Cross
Bain & Company
Bankers Life & Casualty
Davidson Housing Coalition
Delonte Consulting
Family Dollar
First Investors Corporation
Navy
Gastonia, City of
Our Towns Habitat
JET Program
Southern Teachers Agency
Kaplan Testing
UNUM
Western Southern Life

Graduate Schools:
Charlotte School of Law
Mountain State University
Richmont Graduate University
Savannah College of Art and Design
Southern Baptist Theological Seminary
UNCG - Bryan School of Business
UNCG Graduate Programs
University of Georgia College of Business
Vanderbilt Owen Graduate School of Management
Wake Forest Babcock School of Management
Wake Forest School of Medicine and Translational Science

09/11/2009 19:24 911 Hang-up Library
Officer was dispatched to a 911 hang-up at the 24-hour room at the library. Officer checked the room and there
was no one inside. Officer spoke to subjects working behind the desk of the library on the 1st floor and
they advised that everything was okay as far as they knew.

09/12/09 08:47 Illegally parked vehicle - Gastonia, City of
While on routine patrol officer observed a vehicle parked illegally in a handicapped parking area near Martin Ct. Hart, 104
Martin Ct. Dr. Reporting officer observed no handicapped identifiers on a black Honda. Reporting officer had the above vehicle towed
to Archers Towing.

09/13/2009 00:40 911 Hang-up 107 Dormitory Dr
Officer was dispatched to a 911 hang-up at Belk Dorm, 107 Dormitory Dr. Upon arrival the officer checked the area
and was unable to locate anyone in or around the phone area.

09/13/2009 01:52 Fire 115 Patterson Ct Cir
Officer was called to Knox Dorm 115 Patterson Court Cir., in reference to a discharged fire extinguisher setting off the
alarm. Upon arrival the officer checked the area and located the fire extinguisher on the 1st floor of Knox Dorm.
Davidson fire arrived to check the area and reset the alarm. The officer replaced the fire extinguisher.
