Music DEPARTMENT TEAMS WITH ABC STORES FOR NEW "SCRUNK" SEMINAR SEE PAGE 3

DAVIDSON COLLEGE GRADUATES FIRST COLOR-BLIND STUDIO ART MAJOR SEE PAGE 4

KID FROM CALIFORNIA ACTUALLY THINKS OTHER STUDENTS CARE ABOUT CALIFORNIA SEE PAGE 5

DAVIDSON COLLEGE POST OFFICE VOTED "SASSIEST" IN NATION-WIDE SURVEY SEE PAGE 9

PAN CONSPICUOUSLY ABSENT FROM LABYRINTH SEE PAGE 6

OF THE WEEK SEARCH: "STRANGE KID SINGING"

THE YOWL

Your Davidson Honor Section Editors: Alex Greening, Gary Busey, Peter Bruton Writers: Brett Chikowski

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

THE CHICKEN PARM ISSUE

The press thrives on controversy

President Ross Organizes Faculty Date Auction to Save Endowment

Chambers—In an effort to help the sagging endowment, Davidson College President Tom Ross has organized a faculty date auction. After
the success of similar fraternity and eating house events, Ross felt this was an easy way to raise money. “Obviously
we have all been hit by the financial crisis. I promised not to alter student life or fire anybody. I
think the only reasonable course of action is a faculty date auction. If my estimations are correct, the date auction
alone should replace most of the money lost in the past six months.”

"Gilbert Gottfried and Bob Saget to MC the event..."

Next Saturday, your favorite professors will be presented in the Lilly Gallery. Each will display a special talent and then
will be auctioned off to the highest bidder. All the proceeds will go to the endowment. The professor who garners
the most money will not only help the college but gain bragging rights in the faculty lounge for years to
come. Students and Davidson “townies” are invited to participate in the fun. Ross has called personal friends Gilbert Gottfried and
Bob Saget to MC the event. Gottfried, the voice of the parrot Iago in the Disney classic Aladdin, usually appears
for a fee of $20,000 but has generously donated his time for the date auction. Saget needs no introduction and
will also work for free. “It should be a great night and a lot of fun,” Ross said. Ross concluded
with, “I hope we can avoid any lewd or obscene behavior but I can’t make any guarantees when the Physics
Department hits the stage.”

Music Professor Autotunes Lecture

Sloan Music Building—Dr. Trent Payne (T. Payne, as he is affectionately known by his students) attempted to show students the
importance of masking your grating, cacophonous voice to become a musical superstar. “Why should people let the fact that they
sound terrible in real life affect their singing career?” Payne said inaudibly into his computer microphone before the class heard
it to the melody of “Apple Bottom Jeans.” “Not only has autotuning my voice skyrocketed my career from mediocre to
unparalleled, but it has helped with my social life as well.” Payne has sung about his relationships with famous female
celebrities like Stripper, Bartender, and Shawty. When asked what one piece of advice he would give to untalented but aspiring
singers, Dr. T. Payne had this to say: “It’s not what you say—it’s how you fix it on the computer.”

Anthropology Department Chair Mort Finklestein should be one of the auction’s priciest bachelors.

February 25, 2009

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2009 - THE DAVIDSONIAN

Career Services Sees Spike in Unconventional Job Applications

Davidson—The recent economic downturn has affected the employment opportunities for college seniors across the nation. “Beach Bros and Town Drunks
are also very popular.” “Many of our best andBrightest are scrambling to finish resumes and cover letters or are searching
eCa-reers for any new postings,” said Career Services Director Bob Carroll. Slews of others are requesting recommendations and are finalizing
applications to medical and law schools. But a large number of students are looking into some untraditional options for employment
in the next few years. The oft-overlooked group of potential stay-at-home dads has seen a rise in applicants this year.
Ski Bums have also seen a huge number of applicants from Davidson College, while Beach Bros and Town Drunks are
also very popular. Professional Philosopher, an entirely useless job, has also seen an upsurge of applicants. “Because of the economic
crisis there really aren’t that many jobs available in banking or business. I recommend that all seniors explore some of
these career options which don’t have formal standards for application,” Carroll said. “A lot of cities around here are looking
for highly qualified town drunks.”

Senior Jeff Janoski recently was accepted to a Ski Bum residency program at Telluride. “I sent my resume and transcript
to the lady who sells lift tickets and season passes. She interviewed me and offered me a great job as
a Ski Bum. All I did was purchase a season pass and bring a pair of skis for the winter.
It really is a great opportunity.” While the federal government doesn’t technically recognize many of these professions as formal employment,
Carroll dismisses these criticisms. “Those are purely logistical errors in reporting. Beach Bros and Ski Bums are vital to our
economy, and the Davidson education prepares young people wonderfully for the challenges of these.”

Slumdog Millionaire Upsets The Davidson Show in Oscar Win

Los Angeles—The stars were out and shining bright Sunday night as the 81st Annual Academy Awards got underway. The real
sparks flew, however, when dark horse “Slumdog Millionaire” snatched the “Best Motion Picture of 2009” award from the greedy claws
of “The Davidson Show.” “I can’t understand it. Even after our $30,000 grant, we’re still playing second fiddle to a
bunch of impoverished third-world kids,” Keith Behl ’10 lamented. “Bribery or personal politics must have influenced the judges’ decision—our production
is far superior.”

Behl and his associates have been working non-stop every Sunday for the past semester, shooting and editing what has been
hailed as the “Queen Mary of fart jokes.” In an anonymous interview, one professor stated that “Behl’s mastery of convincing
an audience of nudity when in fact, the actor is clothed, reflects cinematic genius of the rarest breed.” The show’s
unparalleled success has been met with criticism by a small but vocal minority. On an internet message board, user “Wildc4tD3n”
ranted that “Behl and his cronies are a bunch of no-talent assclowns!” This sentiment may have prevailed amongst Academy members.
Davidson’s submission included content from several different episodes. Film critics suggest the lack of a cohesive narrative allowed the trivial
“Slumdog” to sneak in for the win.

The show was nominated for 3 awards besides Best Picture but came home Oscar-less. A personal victory for the cast
and crew, however, was the placement of Director and Producer Keith Behl onto the “best-dressed” list. “The publicity will definitely
help,” Behl said. “But right now I just want to get a snack. Besides, the Outpost currently houses two of
the average student’s greatest loves: late-night munchies and the wildly popular Davidson Show.”
