4 Tue DAvIDSONIAN

Dr. Branch, from page 3

studies will help people make good decisions. Scientists generally seem to understand quite well that it’s stories that draw audiences.
Everybody knows that environmental problems are incredibly complex issues; they involve issues of ethics, of religion, of policy, of history,
and it’s pretty clear that to fix big problems, we need to have interdisciplinary solutions, and yet one of the
reasons that we don’t have more interdisciplinary collaboration is the kind of territoriality you mentioned, or more commonly, that people
are just scared to try it. But that’s the kind of border-crossing that’s going to be necessary.

Do you see a difference in the attitudes and priorities of your students as opposed to those of older adults?

I sometimes am more negative than I should be in saying that my generation has failed your generation, and I
do believe that—we had the information we needed to make better decisions, and we didn’t because we didn’t have the
self-restraint to make hard choices.

On the other hand, you see innovative environmental ideas coming from people of all ages, and I don’t think you
can break it down generationally. It’s some of the oldest people I know who have some of the most profound
wisdom on this topic.

But there are some ways in which younger people are different. One thing is I think young people have a
keener sense that you can’t somehow blame all this on technology, that the environment’s a mess because of science.

And I also think one of the most important differences in the way younger and older people have thought about
environmental issues is the old [saying] “you can save the environment and hurt the economy, or you can help the
economy and hurt the environment,” that it’s kind of a zero-sum game, and I think that’s completely misinformed. I think
younger people understand that a lot of opportunities for economic growth are going to be contingent on environmental responsibility.

I think another example of something young people see differently is wilderness. When we talk about the concept of wilderness
in our culture, young people just have a richer understanding of the way wilderness, literally and conceptually, is linked to
all kinds of cultural ideas about the relationship between people and nature. But the take-home on this is that this
is not a generational issue.

How do you see popular culture’s treatment of environmental issues? What would you like to see the media do differently?

Well, the thing I most want to see is the thing we’ll never see, which is intelligent, sustained analysis of
issues. It is so frustrating the way most media represent these issues. The issues are complex, and the solutions will
be complex, but the coverage is not at all complex.

Do you have any particular books on environment and culture you would recommend for Davidson students?

I can’t narrow it down. But a great example is one I just happen to be preparing to teach on
Thursday. It’s a book called “The Future of Life” by a Harvard entomologist E. O. Wilson.

He has some key ideas about the relationship between nature and culture that I think are really quite profound. He’s
a man who’s been associated with a lot of interesting scientific innovations, but what he’s probably best known for is
making people around the globe aware of the future of biodiversity loss. What is biodiversity and why do we need
it? And what does it cost us if we lose it, and how do we measure that cost in different
ways, culturally, financially, spiritually? So, here’s an example of a text by a scientist, and it’s making a cogent argument,
but it does so in a way that is compelling and accessible to regular folks, and I think we need
more of that kind of work.

Brian Sachtjen '12 helps a Special Olympics participant this Saturday during the Patterson Court Day of Service. Members of Patterson
Court and local Olympiads competed together during Davidson’s 2009 Special Olympics.

Ron and Lynn Stipe, whose sons participated in the Olympics, thanked the Davidson College community for hosting this event. In
a letter addressed to event participants they said, “Wow! What a great experience for our boys. The Davidson students were
amazing with all the athletes. Thomas, who is very slow to join the group, had a terrific time. He found
out he likes volleyball too. We just want to say a special ‘Thank You!’ to the Davidson student-body and everyone
involved in setting this up; you have left us and our boys with such wonderful and unforgettable memories. Can’t wait
until next year!”

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2009

how do we measure that cost in different ways, culturally, financially, spiritually? So, here’s an example of a text by
a scientist, and it’s making a cogent argument, but it does so in a way that is compelling and accessible
to regular folks, and I think we need more of that kind of work.

Students & Faculty Save 10% Everyday.

Healthy eating can better prepare you for the challenges of learning and teaching. That is why Healthy Home Market offers
a 10% discount to Davidson faculty and students. Just show your ID card and save 10% everyday.

- Health & Special Diet Foods
- Organic Produce & Meats
- Area’s Largest Selection Of Name Brand Vitamins and Nutritional Supplements
- Bulk Foods (Nuts, Fruits, Mixes, & More)
- Gluten-Free Food Products
- Natural Deli with Wi-Fi
- Specialty Beer & Wine

BEST HEALTH FOOD MARKET CHARLOTTE

261 Griffith Street • 704.892.6191 www.HEMARKET.com
