4 The Davidsonian

News

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2009

Sisters present upcoming novels at Reynolds Lecture

Kara JONES
Staff Writer

This year’s Reynolds Lecture welcomed two nationally beloved authors, who happen to be among each other’s biggest fans. Sisters Elizabeth Gilbert and Catherine Gilbert Murdock together led an evening of witty banter, reading, and discussion. To the delight of the audience, they each previewed soon-to-be-published books.

Dr. Suzanne Churchill of the English department introduced them as two of her childhood friends. When the sisters lived on a farm, she would visit them for play dates, and they would often include her in their imaginative performances.

To the surprise of the Gilbert sisters and the audience, she played a sample of a hilarious tape recording of one of their plays in which she was a celebrity visiting their “resort.” Their imitation voices and shrieks of excitement got the whole audience laughing as they entered the stage.

Catherine Gilbert Murdock, wearing “rock star boots,” spoke first, introducing her sister, Liz, as a unique scholarly writer who takes what she has learned from a motley array of education and experiences. She embraces these traits in her writing.

Her concept of marriage in her new book, Committed: A Skeptic Makes Peace with Marriage, might be completely at odds with traditional academics, but she personalizes it and gives it new and beautiful insights.

Elizabeth Gilbert came to the stage sporting blonde pigtails and a big smile, quickly ingratiating the audience with stories and witticisms before indulging everyone with a sample of her new memoir on marriage.

Following her #1 New York Times Bestseller Eat, Pray, Love, Gilbert’s upcoming memoir recounts the story of her marriage to a Brazilian named Felipe, who otherwise would be deported by Homeland Security. She details their year of traveling in exile and takes a scholarly inquiry into aversions to marriage, especially wedding vows. As Gilbert said, “One’s credibility does begin to tarnish after many times of this sort of thing!”

Gilbert read a passage about Gilbert-Murdock’s daughter, Mimi, and her aversion to their unconventional—flower-girl-less marriage, forcing another non-legally binding “ceremony” in the Murdock kitchen where Mimi would be “the person” witnessing the marriage. In front of Mimi, Liz and Felipe committed to love each other “through sick and not sick, mad and not mad, rich and not so rich.”

After the reading, Gilbert introduced Gilbert-Murdock as her personal stand-in for Scheherazade, who broadened Liz’s own imaginative horizons with 10,000 stories in their childhood. Catherine’s love for imaginative stories never left her even as she grew into an adult reader. Her stories keep coming, she says, mostly through “epic, technicolor dreams.”

Her career writing novels began with a trilogy featuring the fifteen-year-old girl athlete from Wisconsin, DJ Schwenk, whose character has inspired a number of young readers. Catherine read from her latest book in the series, Front and Center, about DJ’s journey through the college basketball recruitment process.

After the readings, Gilbert and Gilbert-Murdock sat down on stage and asked each other questions. They discussed the concept of having fans and the self-competition culture that authors enter into with their writing. They described what they thought of as the most satisfying parts of the writing experience. “When I become so entrenched in what I’m doing that time stops,” Gilbert said; Gilbert-Murdock described the moment of bliss when crafting a good sentence.

The dynamic of both sisters on stage made the evening exponentially more enjoyable, and in the end, we in the audience felt that we knew them even beyond the sense of intimacy and trust that readers have come to love in their books.