: a Zz CARNEGIE BASEMENT HOUSES RETURNING JUNIORS see NEWS, page 2 SCULPTURE EXHIBIT EXAMINES DISABILITY, FEMININITY RE/FORMATIONS open in VAC through Feb. 27 see ARTS, page 5 CONDIMENTS SPONSOR COURT EVENTS ¢ Alegria Afro-Peruvian jazz sextet, Fri. 7:30 p.m., Duke Performance Hall ¢ Kellin Watson concert, Fri. 9:30 p.m., 900 room ¢ Cinderella, Jan. 23-25, Cunningham Theatre WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009 @ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @ MLK events set stage By Ketty Beccs Staff Writer On the eve of Barack Obama’s inauguration, Davidson community members, professors, administrators, students, and children came together to celebrate change—the change that Martin Luther King Jr. accomplished and the national change that the United States’ first African-American president represents. The college’s commemoration began with a 5K Walk for Change, which started in Richardson Stadium and culminated on the steps of Chambers with a reading of Dr. King’s “I Have a Dream” speech. Then, the activities moved on to address a younger crowd, with King Day for Kids. Ashley Butler, director of Freedom Schools, organized the event. Butler said, “In addition to celebrating the life of Dr. King, the secondary purpose of King Day for Kids is to promote literacy and the love of reading and learning.” 134 students ranging in age from kindergarten to 5th grade watched “celebrity readers” read as many words as possible in 15 seconds and then participated in a read-in. The education theme continued throughout the Community Convocation, which took place in the Duke Performance Hall. Dr. Freeman Hrabrowski, President of the University of Maryland, Baltimore County was the principal speaker. In addition to the impressive number of awards and accolades Hrabrowski has received, US News and World Report named him one of “America’s Best Leaders” in 2008. In his recent work, he has researched minority participation and performance in science and math. Hrabrowski began his address emphasizing the importance of education for America’s future, citing statistics demonstrating the present problems of America’s education. He said that 11 percent of white Americans and 2 percent of black Americans received college degrees in the 1950s and 60s, while today still only 32 percent of whites and 17 percent of blacks complete a college education. He praised Davidson for “preparing a younger generation.” See MLK, page 3 JYA with Obama, McCain By Andrew Evans Staff Writer Considering the outpouring of involvement in the 2008 Presidential campaigns, there can be no doubt that Davidson College students resoundingly “rejected the myth of their generation’s apathy,” as President Barack Obama put it in his victory speech on November 4, 2008. Students from across the political spectrum became heavily involved in both campaigns, although the flood of support for the Obama campaign was almost overwhelming. DJ Carella ’09, the president of the YoungDemocrats indicated on election night that there were more student volunteers at the Obama campaign office in Kannapolis than they had jobs. Two students in particular dedicated more time and energy than most to the campaigns. Both Jamie Watson, a sophomore, and Billy Powers took a semester off in order to work on the separate campaigns. Watson worked as a Field Organizer with the Maine Democratic Party, and then as a Field Organizer again in Jim Martin’s runoff Campaign for Change against Saxby Chambliss. Billy Powers worked at the McCain Headquarters in Arlington, VA. Watson, who hails from Portland, Maine, first got involved with campaigns during his sophomore year in high school. He comes from a politically-minded family, but during the 2004 Presidential campaign, Watson volunteered at the John Kerry campaign headquarters almost every day. He continued to volunteer for campaigns during the 2006 midterm elections. “I made close

See Campaigns, page 4

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 13

Virus infects campus
By Kelly Beccs
Staff Writer

This year’s self-selection weekend stood apart from those of years past in one way; many students were throwing up for reasons that were not at all alcohol-related. A particularly contagious stomach virus has given some Davidson students a less-than-warm welcome back immediately upon their return to campus for spring semester. Various students have all reported eating different foods at different places prior to falling ill, so the Davidson Student Health Center says that this illness is not food poisoning, but more likely viral gastroenteritis. Living in close quarters on a college campus makes viruses like this one easy to pass around. Davidson Nurse Jan Poole said, “We see a little of this off and on year-round, but it seems we invariably see more of this right after winter break... When we had seen about 8-10 cases by mid-day last Wednesday, we did let the Dean of Students office know so they could in turn let the professors know that they might be hearing from students affected by the GI [gastrointestinal] virus.” The Health Center stressed that students should not attend class if experiencing GI symptoms, but should instead inform professors of their illness via email to avoid exposing others to the virus. Since last Wednesday the Health Center has talked to or treated about 29 students. The most severe stage of the virus lasts about 8-12 hours, after which symptoms generally subside. Nurse Poole added, “If symptoms should fail to resolve and certainly if they worsen students should not hesitate to contact the health center for advice or an appointment for examination.” As far as how to avoid getting sick, the Health Center advises that hand-washing is the most important form of defense as the virus can be picked up by touching contaminated surfaces. Obviously, sharing drinks or utensils should be avoided as well. The good news is that if you do get the virus, the symptoms will end quickly. Meanwhile, if you’re healthy and want to remain so, wash your hands. A lot.