THE DAVIDSONIAN

Evans’ OT goal leads ’Cats past Hoyas

ANNA STOCKAMORE
Staff Writer

This weekend, the Davidson women’s field hockey team took on Georgetown on Friday, Sept. 4, and Cornell on Saturday, Sept.
5, in Washington, D.C. The ’Cats defeated the Hoyas 1-0 in overtime after 76 minutes of play. Annie Evans ’13
scored her first career and game-winning goal. Although Georgetown outshot Davidson 16-6, goalkeeper Christa Goeke ’10 kept the Wildcats in
the game with several consecutive stops. With 11 saves and her second shutout of the season, Goeke is now fourth
on the Davidson career saves list with 266 saves. Overall, Georgetown dominated in shots on goal by an 11-1 margin
and the differential in total shots. Hannah English ’12 led the Cats with two attempts on goal, and Christine Rua
’12, Clare Perry ’11, and Gray Robinson ’12 each had one. This was Davidson’s sixth consecutive win over Georgetown.

On the American University campus in Washington, D.C., Cornell defeated the Wildcats 3-1. Only five minutes into the game, Cornell
scored their first goal, followed by a second goal by Kelly Kantarian late in the second half. Three minutes later,
Kantarian scored again, giving the Big Red a 3-0 lead. Davidson fought back in the second half with a goal
just five minutes into the second half by Ellie Szkowny ’11 for her second goal of the season. Unfortunately, the
Wildcats were unable to come back and secure a win. Cornell outshot Davidson by a 12-6 advantage, with Finley Amato
’13 leading the Wildcats with two shots on goal, and Perry and Meg Jarrell ’12 each had one shot apiece.
The Women’s Field Hockey team competed at home Tuesday, Sept. 8, against North Carolina, losing 9-0. The Wildcats will play
their next game at home against Indiana on Saturday at 3 p.m.

#11 Elon too much for Wildcats

RAY FRANCIS
Staff Writer

The Davidson football team ran into a buzz saw on Saturday, dropping a 56-0 decision to the No. 11 Elon
Phoenix in the season opener. That the Wildcats were overmatched is not entirely surprising given that Elon has 63 football
scholarships to distribute to its football players, while Davidson has none. Elon started quickly, scoring on Jamal Shuman’s one-yard run
with just under three minutes gone in the first quarter. Scott Riddle got into the act later in the quarter,
scoring on a three-yard run to give the Phoenix a 14-0 lead after one period. Riddle added to his resume
in the second quarter as he hooked up with Terrell Hudgins for a nine-yard score. Lance Camp’s 54-yard punt return
for a touchdown provided the halftime margin of 28-0. The Phoenix eliminated any sliver of drama after the intermission by
scoring two touchdowns in the first five minutes of the third quarter. Riddle hit Hudgins for a 29-yard score and
Jeremy Peterson for a 21-yard score to make the score 42-0. Riddle threw his fourth touchdown of the game later
in the period, connecting with A.J. Harris from 19 yards out. Thomas Wilson’s 36-yard pass to Aaron Mellette ended the
scoring.

The Wildcats had terrible field position throughout the game. Fourteen of their 15 possessions started on their own 33-yard line
or worse, including seven from the 20 or worse. The only exception came when Brad Johnson ’13 recovered Camp’s fumbled
punt return on the Elon 18 five minutes into the fourth quarter. Kenny Mantuo ’11 rushed for one yard before
backup quarterback Matt Heavner ’12 was intercepted by Cameron McGlenn in the end zone. The Wildcat defense managed to stop
one Elon threat near the end of the first half. Harris caught a 24-yard pass from Riddle but had the
ball ripped away by Daniel Astrop ’11 at the Wildcat 13. Tyler Lemons ’10 fell on the ball with under
a minute left in the half to stymie the Phoenix.

Elon out-gained Davidson 575-104 in total yardage. Riddle threw for 326 yards and four touchdowns on 22-33 passing. Hudgins was
his leading receiver, hauling in seven passes for 156 yards and two scores. Shuman led the Phoenix with 20 carries
for 115 yards and a score. Justin Williams ’11 ledthe Wildcat rushing attack with 38 yards on seven carries. Michael
Blanchard ’11 completed 4-13 passes for 24 yards in his debut as a starter. He was also sacked six times.
Heavner was 5-8 for 17 yards and the interception. Mark Hanabury ’11 led the receiving corps with three catches for
11 yards. Elon tallied 28 first downs to the Wildcats’ seven. The Phoenix averaged 7.8 yards per offensive play (Davidson
managed 1.9) and picked up 8 out of 13 third down attempts (Davidson was held to 1-12).

“We ran into a really good football team tonight,” Davidson head coach Tripp Merritt said, “but hats off to our
kids. They played hard and kept fighting. Playing this game will make us a better team in the long run
so we have to take it as a learning experience.”

The Wildcats will return home to play the Lenoir-Rhyne Bears for Homecoming on September 12 at 1 p.m. The Wildcats
beat the Bears on the road last year 20-16 when Williams scored from one-yard out with 16 seconds remaining. After
Lenoir-Rhyne, Davidson will play its final eight games against Pioneer Football League opponents, beginning with a home game against the
Campbell Camels on September 19.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2009

Football vs. Lenoir-Rhyne
Saturday 1 p.m.
Richardson Stadium

After a tough loss at #11 Elon to open the season, Davidson hopes to open their home slate with a
victory over the Bears in front of a homecoming crowd at Richardson Stadium. Last year, the ‘Cats squeaked out a
narrow 20-16 win at Lenoir-Rhyne.

Outside the Den

College Football
#3 USC (1-0) at #6 Ohio State (1-0)
Columbus, Ohio
Saturday 8 p.m.

A year ago, the Trojans dismantled the Buckeyes 35-3 in Los Angeles, but this time the two teams will square
off in Ohio Stadium, one of college football’s toughest home venues. Ohio State survived a 31-27 scare from Navy in
its opening game while USC crushed San Jose State 56-3.

Radford vs. Canisius 4:30 p.m.
UNCW vs. Davidson 7 p.m.

Jim’s career-long track record of achieving successful results for his clients has earned him recognition throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named to the Best Lawyers in America publication consistently for the
past 23 years and was recently named as one of the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina.

As a former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the State
for his commitment to justice and his exceptional litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience, he has dedicated his
legal practice to helping people who have been injured by the negligent or criminal conduct of others.

In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community. Sandy,
a Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children,
Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as a commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town
of Davidson committees, he is a member of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of Williams Masonic Lodge
#176, A.F. & A.M., and has coached youth football, basketball, and baseball in the Davidson, Cornelius, and Mooresville communities.

Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A member of the
Lions Club, Jim also serves on the boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Conservancy, and the Davidson Community
Players and was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

THE McINTOSH LAW FIRM
Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home
LITIGATION • PERSONAL INJURY • REAL ESTATE • WILLS & TRUSTS
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill)
Davidson, NC 28036 • (704) 892-1699 • www.mcintoshlawfirm.com
APPEALS • BANKRUPTCY • BUSINESS LAW • COLLECTIONS • ESTATE PLANNING
