10 Tre DavipsoniAN Eesti Ritgn sy S The hard-earned Seas ‘how point in the first ‘mle Davidson was down. ‘ 7-21 Led by Merced Robinson ’ eled by: their first half run, leading at times by-as man} onine points, Mercedes Robinson performed tremendous ‘recording a career-high’30 points. But the:’Cats could n deliver the final crushing blow, ‘and, the Cougars kept th margin in single digits, With 30 seconds left, they:had nar: towed the lead to three. With 23 seconds left, the 7 ave up a steal and layup, and Charleston took the win ‘Watts takes all the blame for the tough first Joss in So- Con. “It was my fault the other night against. College. of Charle ton”. she said, “Usually,/1 watch every: tape I get my hands on. And I got complacent. watched one: film,’a:film from last year, and I-knew- they ere pre much doing what they’d been doing. I did not: prepare ia for the intense penetration that they now hav -in the second half, their opponents smade a 1 2run, wed immediately by a 14-5, Wildcat response. 718 and 16, respectively.‘ oe Despite the recent setback Cats maintain the : focus on cach individual game.““You’ ve got to prepare for. _every team like they can beat you, Watts said.“Because vin this league,.they can.” The team is optimistic because “the future does. afford an opportunit for revenge Chi omes to Belk‘Arena in three weeks, _ ©. As the Wildcats host Appalachian Stai this Saturda’ at 12.p.m., they keep an eye on the bigger pictureThoug e immediate focus rests on each new opponent, the pla ers hold onto their SoCon fhampionship dreams wes SPORTS WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009: Most remarkable story of the year? + Super Bowl-bound Arizona Cardinals Curis YOUNG Staff Writer Over the past month, several intriguing storylines have transpired in the sports world. The Florida Gators captured their second BCS Championship in three seasons. The Utah Utes turned the college football world upside down with a shellacking of Alabama in the Sugar Bowl. The Dallas Cow- boys predictably imploded. UNC’s dreams of an undefeated basketball season unexpectedly ended at the hands of Boston College. But with apologies to all of the aforementioned teams, the most compelling story is that of the Super Bowl bound Arizona Cardinals. Did I really just type that? In my lifetime before this season, the Cardinals had won all of one playoff game. This year’s version, while improved, struggled so much to close the season that the pundits began wondering if the Cardinals were the worst team ever to make the playoffs. In fact, they inspired talk of a new divisional system that would prevent such a travesty as this season’s Arizona squad making the playoffs. The Cardinals resporided to the criticism by beating the surprise Atlanta Falcons at home and then thumping the Car- olina Panthers in Charlotte (some of this game, okay most, can be credited to Jake Delhomme’s horrendous performance for the Panthers). Finally, the Cardinals pulled off an impres- sive comeback in the fourth quarter of a game they almost blew, defeating the Philadelphia Eagles 32-25 to advance to the Super Bow]. All of this begs the question: who are these guys? The answer to that query is why the Cardinals have been the top story over the past month. The Arizona Cardinals are a team comprised primarily of retreads, rejects, has-beens, and un- knowns. No one player is more representative of the team than quarterback Kurt Warner. Oh, Warner has been a two time NFL Most Valuable Player and also won a Super Bowl. But that was all almost a decade ago. It is well-known that Warner was bagging groceries in a supermarket before leading the St. Louis Rams to glory from 1999-2001. What’s less known is that Warner has traversed another difficult path to this year’s success. Unwanted by the Rams only a few years removed from an MVP season, he moved on to play for the New York Giants. The Giants promptly drafted Eli Manning and benched Warner midway through his first season. After moving to Arizona, a similar scenario occurred. The Cardinals wasted no time in drafting Matt Leinart as their quarterback and almost immediately handed him the reins to the offense. Despite the fact that Warner had outplayed Lei- nart in limited time, he began this season’s training camp as a backup, an afterthought. Warner, as his team would do some five months later, rose from the ashes, beat out Leinart, and had a spectacular season throwing the ball. The rest of the Cardinals similarly were unwanted. Tail- back Edgerrin James was cast aside by the Colts after a fab- ulous career in Indianapolis. Rookie Tim Hightower, who scored the game-winning touchdown against Philadelphia, was drafted in the fifth round out of -AA Richmond and gen- erally considered too slow to make an impact in the NFL. The offensive line consists of a patchwork: group, none more representative of the team’s mentality than tackle Mike Gandy, whohas been blasted time and again for being an inferior player at his position. The defense, though, is even more of a story. Again, the Cardinals do not have a team filled with former first-round picks and All-Pro players. Players like linebacker Karlos Dansby have been benched time and again throughout their careers. Even its superstars, like safety Adrian Wilson, have only recently begun to receive attention for their play. They are the Arizona Cardinals. They are the team that didn’t belong. They are the players that no one else wanted. They are the most inept franchise in the history of the NFL. And they are your NFC Champions. Bring on the Steelers!

Wildcat wrestlers fall to Tar Heels
Kris HENDERSHOT Staff Writer

The Wildcats wrestled four meets in the past few weeks with mixed success, and now post an overall record of 3-8. The team took on Gardner-Webb University, Lock Haven University and Virginia Tech University on Jan. 10, and the University of North Carolina on Jan. 17. Davidson was victorious against Lock Haven with a score of 21-15. Unfortunately, however, the ’Cats lost to Gardner-Webb 19-25, Virginia Tech 11-34 and North Carolina 10-29.

At the tri-meet on January 10, Ben Altman ’10, in the 125-pound class, was a prime-time performer going 3-0. Altman was also named the SoCon Student-Athlete of the Week for the week of Jan. 12 for his performance on the mats and in the classrooms. The win against Lock Haven was very impressive as they are often one of the nation’s top teams. The wrestlers came through in the clutch, winning four of their last six matches. Charlie Wolff ’11, in the 285 weight class, succeeded with an 8-7 victory. Kevin Cook ’09, Thomas Jasterzbski ’12, Vitaly Radsky ’11 and Carl Sandercock ’10 all contributed with victories to help the team upset one of the powerhouses in the sport.

Their first opponent at the tri-meet was Gardner-Webb, and although the ’Cats started strong with wins by Altman 7-4, Alex Radsky 11 pin, and V. Radsky pin, they were unable to maintain this momentum. Gardner-Webb capitalized on mistakes by the Wildcats and despite Tyler Mullen’s ’12 9-0 win, the ’Cats lost the meet. Against Virginia Tech, Altman began the meet with a 17-2 win. Wolff and Altman were the only two Wildcats to come out with victories, but the Wildcats made substantial progress and have something positive to build off of in the future. The Lock Haven victory was an amazing feat and will help Davidson against strong teams they will have to face in the future. Some individuals have had tremendous starts to their seasons including V. Radsky and Altman.

This past weekend the Wildcats and the Tar Heels of UNC faced off at a neutral site. The Heels are a very strong team and were a good warm-up for three straight conference meets. The Wildcats lost their first three matches of the meet until A. Radsky won his match 12-1. David DeCamp ’12 earned his first career pin at the 149 weight class as he dropped his opponent in 2:10. The match was not one-sided as both teams had leads at different intervals in the meet. The recent meets are positive building blocks and the team had leads in each of the meets. Davidson will try to maintain and build upon leads in their upcoming meets on Sunday, Jan. 25.

Men’s Basketball (14-3, 7-0)
Results:
1/12 @ Citadel W 84-69
1/14 vs. Elon W 83-68
1/17 @ Ga. Southern W 89-68
Next Up:
1/21 vs. Furman
1/24 vs. Appalachian State

Women’s Basketball (8-11, 7-3)
Results:
1/12 vs. CofC L 71-74
1/17 @ Chattanooga L 69-76
1/19 @ Samford L 65-74
Next Up:
1/24 vs. Wofford
1/26 @ Western Carolina
Notes: The ’Cats have dropped three straight conference games but remain in 3rd place in the SoCon standings after their 7-0 start in league play.

Swimming/Diving
Men (1-6, 1-0)
Women (3-6, 3-0)
Results:
1/17 @ Ga. Southern
Women W 123-118
Next Up:
1/24 @ UNC Classic
Notes: Jessica Delgehausen ’11 set pool records in the 500 and 100 freestyle events as the Wildcat women improved to 3-0 in the conference.

Indoor Track
Results:
12/5 @ Appalachian Invitational
Next Up:
1/24 @ UNC Classic
Notes: The indoor track season continues as the Wildcats compete for the first time in over a month at the UNC Classic at Chapel Hill on Saturday.

Wrestling (3-8, 0-1)
Results:
1/10 @ Gardner-Webb L 19-25
1/10 vs. Lock Haven W 21-15
1/10 vs. Virginia Tech L 11-34
1/17 vs. UNC L 10-29
Next Up:
1/25 vs. VMI
Notes: David DeCamp ’12 recorded his first career pin at 149 in the Wildcats' loss to the Tar Heels Saturday.