Element i it seems that obviate education is generating a particular amount of frustration lately, especially liberating.” But it is unclear how it will build “disciplined and creative minds.” The physical education department is content amidst the weight of classes, extra-curricular activities, and social lives. We often over-extend ourselves. A long Tai-Chi class might relieve stress. Students, though, are not entirely to blame. The department readily admits that record-keeping has suffered from inefficiencies in recent years. In fact, the prior department leadership, which exited in 2007, failed to record whether students successfully completed the classes they registered for. As a result, there is now great confusion as to which students have outstanding requirements. Additionally, the software program that students currently use to register for P.E. classes requires administrators to manually enter each student’s contact information and attendance record. A new registration system...

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief
Katherine Miller & Brian Moran
Managing Editor
Kate Kelly
News Editors
Katherine Johnson & Caroline Wood
Perspectives Editors
Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris
Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Errington & Jennifer Gambrell
Yowl Editor
Alex Greening
Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Kelsey Lilley
Business & Circulation Managers
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright
Online Editor
Greg Newman
Content Manager
Kelly Beggs
Section Copy Editors
Stephanie Jones & Nami Patel

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Sunny LEE
Guest Columnist

In his Nov. 19 response, Spencer Cowan ignores the overarching point of Mario Silva’s article — that Davidson, as a community, is intolerant of atheism — and instead compares atheism to totalitarianism. First of all, really? Faulty reasoning aside, his muddled and misleading argument did have one legitimate point: not all opinions are equal. The opinion that the moon is made of cheese can be safely ignored on the basis of empirical evidence. But when considering matters of faith, how do we determine the “legitimacy” of beliefs? Since it is not possible to conclusively prove or disprove the existence of the divine, it would seem that evaluating different faiths could not be an objective science. In which case, it might actually be a good idea to explore all of them. Just as I would not ask a political science professor to endorse totalitarianism (which, incidentally, we study as often as we do democracy), I will not ask the College to endorse atheism. I do take issue, however, with the stigma of illegitimacy that atheism suffers at Davidson. Whether or not it is palatable to all Davidson students, atheism is becoming increasingly relevant in modern society and should be afforded the same respect granted to other belief systems. The American Religious Identification Survey, conducted in 2001, found that 14.1 percent of all Americans describe themselves as “without religion.” In 2005, the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority of the United Kingdom, a regulatory board for public examinations, announced that it would be instituting national guidelines for the study of atheism, humanism, agnosticism, and other non-religious beliefs in light of their importance. To disregard the teaching of non-religious beliefs at Davidson would be not only an academic injustice but a spiritual disservice. Non-religious beliefs play just as much of a role in personal enrichment for believers as religion courses do for skeptics. Spencer’s implicit suggestion that belief in God is necessary for spiritual and intellectual enrichment is not only strikingly fallacious but also rather condescending, insulting, and intolerant. While some may believe that skepticism is a diminishing quality, atheists such as John Lennon, Kurt Vonnegut, and David Hume would probably beg to differ. Didn’t these men represent in many ways the pinnacle of personal enrichment, both intellectually and morally? (Author's note: further research revealed that these men are widely considered morally bankrupt).

Atheism warrants equal status

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009

It is self-defeating to consider moral enrichment and spirituality as inextricably entwined. We should be able to have a conversation about ethics that doesn’t inevitably lapse into religion. Davidson’s mission—to give students wisdom when there is no light, righteousness when there is no path — is far greater than any one religion can adequately encompass. To paraphrase Vonnegut, the essence of morality is to behave decently without expectation of reward or punishment. Just as the Honor Code asks us to be honorable for honor’s sake, we should learn for humanity’s sake, not God’s. Let’s look at it from the practical standpoint. Davidson is an academic institution...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

That has important ties to religion, as does nearly every other academic institution in America. As someone who was raised Presbyterian, I understand the importance of Davidson remaining faithful to its core values. But we should retain these values because they are staples of human decency, not because of our religious affiliation. Religion should not define Davidson, and religious prejudice is vastly detrimental to the school’s image and appeal. For an institution that wishes to compete on a national level, it is no longer an advantage to be open-minded — it is a necessity. And is it so wrong to question? To say that open-mindedness invariably leads to nihilism is patently ridiculous. Some of the most devout people I know have been skeptics all their lives. Their skepticism serves to strengthen their own faith, not undermine it. In religion, as with any other academic subject, true edification results not from unchallenged adherence to one maxim, but rather the discussion that results from the interaction of beliefs. I do not deny that faith plays an integral role in many students’ lives or that it is a helpful compass in times of trouble. I reject, however, the idea that any singular belief is the only path to Truth. Furthermore, I believe that any truly logical or moral human is incapable of reaching such a sadly limiting conclusion. Saying that one will tolerate another’s faith is as arbitrary and petty as saying one will tolerate another’s choice of major. It is both presumptuous and preclusive to true moral growth. If you feel honest in your faith, open-minded discourse should be a learning opportunity, not a subversive attack on your morality. As a proud atheist, I know that I still have much to learn from my religious counterparts. I know that I did not have to come to Davidson — it was a choice. But as a Davidsonian, I believe that we are capable of more than this, and as a human being, I feel that my choice in faith should be accorded the respect and recognition it deserves. Sunny Lee ’11 is undeclared. He is from New York, N.Y. Contact him at sulee@davidson.edu.

World’s response to Israel disproportionate

Based on world media coverage, you would think Israel’s recent military actions in Gaza were on par with Hitler’s march into the Sudetenland. The world’s media and the world’s government (the United Nations) have been completely hoodwinked by Hamas. For the first time in three years, Israel has taken action to protect its citizens from Gaza-based rocket attacks, and the world has chosen to lament the deaths of Hamas terrorists. How did Israel get into its current situation of having to invade Gaza? In 2005 Israel brokered a “land for peace” deal with Hamas in which Israel unilaterally handed control of Gaza to Palestinians. Israel’s pullout involved forcibly removing its own citizens from their homes and destroying their synagogues. Israel not only handed over Gaza, but its infrastructure as well. At the same time several international Jewish groups purchased, and donated to the Palestinians, the greenhouses that departed settlers had used to grow vegetables normally denied by the climate. Thus the Israelis not only provided Palestinians with land, but also a means to succeed in that land. Certain Palestinians, instead of working toward prosperity, destroyed the existing infrastructure and greenhouses. Soon after, they elected the terrorists of Hamas as their leaders. Hamas has spent the last three years launching thousands of rockets into southern Israel while turning Gaza into an absolute slum. Israelis have been dealing with daily rocket attacks for over three years now. What other nation would have lasted that long? Imagine that every day the citizens of San Antonio were greeted with rocket strikes from Mexico. How long do you think the United States would wait before striking back?

Bobby DesPain

Few countries would hesitate to respond and most would respond much more harshly than Israel. Israel takes great care not to harm civilians (probably to its own detriment). It broadcasts warnings in civilian areas prior to airstrikes and drops leaflets recommending that people avoid the rocket-launch sites. It has allowed ambulances and supply trucks to operate unhindered. Rather than condemn the terrorists who use schoolyards as launch pads, the U.N. condemns the country defending its citizens. Israel aims to protect its own citizens, but remains sensitive to the hardships of those in Gaza. Hamas cannot claim to do either. Hamas strategically places launch-sites near schools, hospitals and residential areas, hoping that Israeli counterattacks will kill civilians—it recognizes that gruesome images of dead Palestinian children are its most powerful tool in discrediting Israel. Despite Hamas’ indifference toward civilian deaths, the United Nations places little emphasis on addressing the group’s abhorrent activities, preferring to rebuke Israel. Rather than condemn the terrorists who use schoolyards as launchpads, the U.N. condemns the country defending its citizens. Israel is the U.N.’s worst Human Rights violator. Perhaps if the world wishes to solve the problems in the Middle East it should focus less on blaming Israel and begin confronting Hamas. Bobby Despain ’11 is undeclared. He is from St. Louis, Mo. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.

---