10 The DAVIDSONIAN

Curtis YOUNG
Staff Writer

When the Davidson Wildcats take the court on Saturday against the College of Charleston in a key Southern Conference duel,
the broadcast will be noted for the presence of one of the more debated figures in basketball: Dick Vitale.

Vitale has been the voice of college basketball for over 20 years, his loud and lauding commentary reverberating through many
living rooms every year from November through March. Loved by many and hated by an equal number, Vitale is unquestionably
the most famous figure in basketball broadcasting. He gets the nod for many of the marquee matchups around the country,
and his enthusiasm for the game is contagious.

All of this praise, of course, begs the question: why is Vitale hated by so many basketball fans around the
country? The answers vary depending upon whom you ask. Many fans on the East Coast consider Vitale to be too
favorable to the Duke University Blue Devils. The truth of the matter is that Vitale does maintain a close relationship
with Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski. The two have been friends for some time, although much of their interaction comes from
benefits for the Jimmy V Foundation, which raises money for cancer research.

Does Vitale favor Duke in his broadcasting? I think he does mention Duke far too often when he broadcasts other
games. For example, in Monday night’s Top Ten tilt between Connecticut and Louisville, Vitale mentioned the Blue Devils less than
two minutes into the game. Vitale has rightfully earned his “Dukie V” mantra with excessive mention of the Blue Devils,
but I will take a stand and argue that he is not a Duke homer (full disclosure: I cannot stand
Duke Basketball).

There is no denying that Vitale usually hypes the frontrunner. Duke, whether or not we want to admit, has been
at or near the top of the college basketball world for two decades. He praises North Carolina and Connecticut in
much the same fashion as he heaps superlatives on Duke. He treats Tyler Hansbrough and even our own Stephen Curry
in the same manner as he lauded J.J. Redick and Mike Dunleavy at Duke.

Here’s the story with Vitale, and it is something that we would all do well to remember: the man loves
basketball. He loves good basketball, excited student sections, and coaches that get the most out of their players. He will
not hesitate to give acclaim to any team that deserves it. Vitale proved his mettle in this regard after the
’95-’96 season in which Davidson lost in the conference championship. Much of the nation discounted the Wildcats’ credentials. Vitale, on
the other hand, championed the Wildcats as deserving of a bid to the NCAA Tournament. After Davidson was left on
the outside looking in, Vitale lambasted the committee for its oversight.

By all accounts, Vitale is also a genuinely nice person. I have had many people tell me that Vitale has
graciously devoted time in restaurants and other public spaces to speak with them, sign autographs, and be generally amiable. Furthermore,
he donates considerable time and effort to various charities, and has donated considerable sums of money to the V Foundation
for Cancer Research.

I do not believe Vitale offers as much insight as he should with his color commentary. He is actually a
brilliant basketball mind and has much more to offer than his enthusiasm. He was a successful college coach despite making
his name in the broadcast booth. In spite of his flaws, Vitale’s enthusiasm and passion for basketball are contagious. His
voice signifies the beginning of the college basketball season, and those that claim Vitale is a blatant Duke homer are
looking through the wrong colored glasses. We should view Vitale as a tremendous ambassador for the game, a humanitarian, and
a man that appreciates good basketball.

Fans that hate Vitale are mostly fans of teams that historically have had little success. Davidson fans, listen to Saturday’s
broadcast. He will be gushing about Curry, McKillop, and Davidson as the little school that can compete with the big
boys. Who cares about the Duke mentions? The man loves college basketball. He brought it notoriety and continues to bring
excitement to every game he calls. Dick Vitale truly is the voice of college basketball and I, for one, love
it.

Western, from page 12

Davidson’s record now stands at 19-3 and 12-0 in the conference. The Wildcats recently learned that they will play No.
11 Butler at Belk Arena on February 21 as part of ESPN’s BracketBusters program. A time for the game has
not been determined, but the game will be televised on one of the ESPN networks. Davidson defeated Winthrop 60-47 in
its BracketBuster debut last year.

Additionally, Curry was named SoCon Player of the Week for a record seventh time this season after averaging 26 points,
6.7 assists, 5 rebounds, and 2.3 steals in last week’s victories over Chattanooga, Samford, and Western Carolina. The Wildcats’ conference
campaign will continue tomorrow at UNC-Greensboro at 7 p.m. Saturday will see the Wildcats return to Belk Arena for a
6 p.m. tip-off against College of Charleston in the school’s third-annual Blackout Belk promotion. The Cougars are currently the second-place
team in the SoCon with an 8-3 conference record.

Wofford, from page 12

Davidson dropped only 47 percent of its free throws, compared to the team’s season average of 72 percent. Despite the
team numbers, it seemed like nearly every Davidson player put on a respectable performance. Along with Robinson’s record-setting 15 points,
she grabbed 11 rebounds for yet another double-double. Halbersleben matched with a double-double of her own—14 points and 10 boards.
Alex Thompson led the ’Cats with 21 points, marking her return to full offensive force. Davidson’s defense gave up anunforgivable
86 points to Wofford. Defensive intensity and focus was a problem for the ’Cats and no player could deny that.
Thompson said, “Our defense — we kind of let that slip. We started focusing so much on getting our offense
and being aggressive. Well now that’s clicking fine, so we have to get back to sharpening our defense.” Perhaps a
more revealing statistic is that Davidson’s bench players spent 59 minutes on the court, to Wofford’s 90. Depth has plagued
the Wildcats all season, and all 12 Wofford participants capitalized on this weakness. One stat that usually favors Davidson—bench points—also
went against the team. Wofford had 45—an astounding figure—to Davidson’s nine. What began as a stunning 7-0 run in the
SoCon for the Wildcats has slipped to a 7-6 season. Beat up, shook up, and battered; the team has every
right to blame the situation. Taking the young team, difficult schedule, and limited bench into account, the 7-6 conference mark
is perfectly admirable. But the ’Cats still have one overarching goal this season. “We still want to win a championship,”
Thompson said. The team still hangs around the middle of the conference standings, still positioned to climb the ranks with
only a couple of wins. Davidson still has the opportunity to avenge its losses to the league’s top teams—Samford and
Chattanooga. Better yet, both games will be held in Belk Arena. This Saturday will bring the Wildcats their best opportunity
to overturn the current losing skid. Traveling to Elon, they will face the only SoCon team still looking for its
first win. The Phoenix are beatable for Davidson. The ’Cats simply need the confidence to come out to play. Thompson
said, “You never know when a team’s going to come up and take one from you. You’ve got to face
each opponent with the same kind of awareness.” Of course, nothing’s so simple, but the team does have all week
to prepare. It only takes one win to turn the tides. “We’ve taken it all in stride the entire time—we’ve
faced a lot of adversity this year,” Thompson said. “But I think we all knew we could handle that, and
we’re ready to brush it off our shoulders.”

Alex Thompson ‘10 led the ’Cats with 21 points and 5 rebounds against Wofford.

We'd Like You to Meet Jim’s career-long track record of achieving successful results for his clients has earned him recognition
throughout NC and among his peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named to the Best Lawyers in
America publication consistently for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of the Top Super Lawyers in
the state of North Carolina. As a former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is a widely respected trial
lawyer known throughout the state for his commitment to justice and his exceptional litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom
experience, he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people who have been injured by the negligent or criminal conduct
of others. Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A member
of the Lions Club, Jim also serves on the boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Conservancy, and the
Davidson Community Players and was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

Prosser D. “Sandy” Carnegie has spent almost 30 years representing clients who have suffered substantial injuries due to another person's
negligence or criminal conduct, always with the client’s best interest above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas
of the law including contract preparation and review, residential and commercial closings, land development and acquisition as well as zoning.
Sandy is licensed to practice before all state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia. In addition to his
many responsibilities as an attorney, Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community. Sandy, a Davidson native, and
his wife, Robbie, currently live in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy
served many years as a commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on various Town of Davidson committees, he
is a member of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of Williams Masonic Lodge #176, A.F. & A.M.
and has coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the Davidson, Cornelius and Mooresville communities.

Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill)
Davidson, NC 28036 » (704) 892-1699 » www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

Men’s Basketball (19-3, 12-0)
Results:
1/28 @ Chattanooga W 92-70
1/31 @ Wofford L 72-86
2/2 vs. Western W 89-65
Next Up:
2/7 @ Elon
2/10 vs. Gardner-Webb

Men’s Tennis (1-3, 0-0)
Results:
2/1 vs. No. 68 Radford L 1-6
Next Up:
2/7 @ No. 52 South Carolina

Swimming/Diving
Men (2-6, 2-0)
Women (4-6, 4-0)
Results:
1/28 vs. VMI PPD
Next Up:
2/19 CCSA Championships

Women’s Basketball (8-14, 7-6)
Results:
1/31 @ Samford W 55-52
2/3 vs. App. State L 9-25
Next Up:
2/9 vs. UNCG

Women’s Tennis (1-1, 0-0)
Results:
2/2 vs. S.C. State W 6-1
Next Up:
2/7 vs. Wingate

Wrestling (4-10, 1-3)
Results:
1/29 vs. UNCG L 3-34
2/2 vs. App. State L 9-25
Next Up:
2/5 @ UNCG
2/7 vs. Liberty
2/13 @ Anderson
2/13 vs. Belmont Abbey

Notes:
Calum Gee ’12 scored the ’Cats only match win against Radford with a tiebreak victory in #4 singles play.

The swim meet against VMI was postponed due to inclement weather.

Kevin Cook ’09 recorded a 4-3 decision in the 174-pound weight class in the ’Cats’ loss to UNCG.

The Wildcats hope to end their longest losing streak since the end of the 2001-2002 season with a victory at
Elon Saturday.

Michele Fanney led the Wildcats to their first victory of the season with a 6-2, 6-2 win in #1 singles
play.

The Wildcats extended the nation’s third longest home winning streak to 27 games with the 89-65 win over Western Carolina
on Monday.
