THE DAVIDSONIAN

Economy, from page 1

Schools are now concerned that they will not be able to fill their enrollments next year. Public schools are also
preparing layoffs and substantial budget cuts. At the end of last year, the University of Florida dismissed 430 faculty and
staff, and the school plans to reduce its overall budget by 10 percent in the coming fiscal year.

The shrinking economy has also affected the school’s capacity to raise money. The alumni giving participation rate in December, a
popular time to donate, fell by only one percent compared with the same month in 2007, while the total sum
of gifts dropped 3.6 percent. “The alumni are still committed to the institution,” Vice President of Business and Finance Karen
Goldstein said. “But they are feeling the pain of the economy, and the size of their gifts seems to be
down.”

The slight reduction in fundraising should not severely affect Davidson’s operating budget and the school has no major plans for
capital-intensive construction projects. “With completion of the capital campaign with Bobby Vagt over in 2006, this past summer was the
end of our big building boom,” Goldstein said.

Davidson enjoys one of the highest rates of alumni giving in the country: 60 percent of all alumni give back
to Davidson. Only one percent of the American colleges exceed a 50 percent giving rate. “Because of the four-year experience
students have at Davidson, [alums] leave for the most part feeling like Davidson is one of those places that is
important to them,” Vice President of College Relations Eileen Keeley said.

Keeley is concerned about minimizing the reduction in giving but is optimistic that any drop will not significantly impact the
College. “It looks like we will be short, but not so short that it is a problem for the college,”
she said.

Fundraising will carry particular importance in the coming years as the school looks to fund the Davidson Trust, established in
2007. Initially funded by a $10 million grant from the Duke Endowment, The Davidson Trust commits to replacing loans with
grants in all financial aid packages, hoping to free students of financial burdens upon graduation. Since the Davidson Trust’s creation,
the school has seen an uptick in the number of students on financial aid. Before 2008, 33 percent of students
received financial aid. But now 42 percent of the Class of 2012 receives need-based aid, raising the overall rate to
35 percent. Furthermore, Davidson is seeing an increase in applications for the class of 2013 unlike many private school peers.
As a result, some are concerned about the challenges of funding the trust.

“You can’t do something like this and pull back on it,” Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid Chris Gruber said.
“The trustees are committed to this and knew what this would cost; they did it because it was the right
thing for Davidson. What they did not know was what the economy was going to do.”

The school eventually plans an estimated $125 million capital campaign to raise funds for the Davidson Trust. When it does,
it will take new strategies for asking alumni, foundations, and some local corporations for funds. Goldstein is hopeful that when
the campaign does begin, members of the Davidson committee will contribute vigorously. “We have good fundraising people, very committed trustees,
and very loyal alums,” she said. “For the moment, all we can do is make the assumption that we are
going to raise it.”

The College plans to fund the Trust entirely through gifts, without any effect on the school’s budget. Davidson finds itself
in a fortunate position in terms of service payments on its debt. The school’s $36 million debt is less than
10 percent of the endowment. Many other institutions carry debt equaling over 20 percent of their endowments, and thus incur
larger expenses.

The school is now planning for a 30 percent reduction in the endowment next year and has not yet hit
that number. Davidson has sufficient funds to support 42 percent.

Live next fall? If so, you just might want to reconsider that choice, because several exciting new refurbishments have been
slated for the near future. This summer, the school has decided to completely renovate Cannon Residence Hall to join in
the ranks of other recently revamped residence halls, like Watts and Richardson. Martin Court will be receiving new heating, ventilating,
and air conditioning systems. Following those refurbishments, Davidson also plans to renovate Sentelle in 2010. After that, only Irwin, Akers,
and Knox would be on the docket since all other buildings need renovation.

Green from page 1

...plained. The theme...Of the lecture series, the global energy challenge, “really captures the spirit of our liberal arts education,” Director
of Dean Rusk International Studies Program Chris Alexander remarked, “because it is not tied to any one field of study.
It is interdisciplinary and relevant to every student.”

“This project is wider in scope than anything the Bank of America conference has entailed before,” McDermott commented. “We are
excited to see what students come up with.”

The student-led committee organizing the conference is still discussing the specifics of its academic aspects. An interdisciplinary seminar is presently
the most compelling idea. As Professor Alexander elaborated, “students could approach this energy crisis from the physical sciences, the humanities,
or the social sciences. The point is to connect what students do inside the classroom to what they do outside.”
Whether student papers resulting from research on energy issues will be compiled into a publication, a symposium, a debate forum,
or all of the above is still under discussion. What is certain is that Dean Rusk SAC encourages as much
student participation and engagement as it can rally to make the conference a real success.

For more information on the Conference or related initiatives, contact Dr. Chris Alexander, Larissa Hohe, Christoph Pross, Caroline McDermott, or
Justin Eusebio.

1/26/2009 15:30: Additionally, Tomlinson Dorm will be updated with new paint and carpets.

Suspicious Persons
Financial need next year, and perhaps even more. The 2010-11 fiscal year is a different story, as more money needs
to be raised for The Davidson Trust to manage expenses. “I’d like to think that we’ve been good stewards of
the resources available to us,” Gruber said. “Today we are better stewards to support the mission of the college, saying
yes, this is a need; this is how we should be spending.”

Renovations are based on a physical plant assessment regarding what building has the most foundational and structural work needed to
be done, what buildings have not been renovated in some time, and what buildings will cost us significantly more money
to repair if we continue to defer maintenance. With the current troubling economy, Davidson College’s economic status plays an enormous
role in determining both the number of buildings that can actually be renovated and what restorations can be done. In
some respects, deciding what renovations to undertake is like taking a huge gamble. If Davidson took on two major construction
projects this summer by renovating both Cannon and Sentelle, instead of just renovating Cannon, and another devastating economic crisis hit,
the school could be in times of such immense financial uncertainty. RLQ has a tough job on their hands.

1/28/2009 08:44 Fire Library
Officer received a call advising that the Library had smoke and the odor of something burning on the first floor.
The reporting officer responded and met with Davidson Fire Dept. personnel who advised the alarm was coming from the ground
floor. Fire personnel checked the area but were unable to locate the source of the smell. The reporting officer contacted
the Physical Plant and requested assistance. By the time the Physical Plant arrived, the odor of something burning was gone.
No damage was done or injuries incurred.

1/31/2009 18:04 Other 100 Ridge Rd.
Officer received a call on the officer cell phone in reference to student drinking alcohol at Five Acre Field, 100
Ridge Rd. Reporting officer arrived on the scene and observed a group of students standing around a cooler with beer
inside it. Reporting officer asked the group of students whom the cooler belonged to, and no one responded. Reporting officer
seized the cooler and emptied each beverage container of the beer inside. Reporting officer reminded the group of students that
alcoholic beverages may not be used, sold, possessed, or consumed at all Davidson College sporting events, including intramural and club.

1/31/2009 21:35 Other Baker Sports Center
Officer observed a Chrysler Sebring with the trunk open parked at the Baker Sports Center, 200 Baker Dr. Inside the
trunk was a purse and several pairs of shoes. Reporting officers secured the trunk and verified that all vehicle doors
were locked. Reporting officers did not observe any forced entry into the trunk area or into the passenger compartment of
the vehicle.
