THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Ohio State Buckeyes are among the fortunate few. It seems they have found the legendary El Dorado, with streets
paved with gold and riches in abundance. The $120 million budget for the athletic department would make King Midas blush
and dwarfs Davidson’s meager $3 million budget. Due to the fact that athletes at Davidson don’t receive a silver spoon
upon enrollment, we are proposing new subsidies to level the playing field and create a more socialistic society in respect
to our national hero Karl “Obama” Marx.

Davidson’s academic prowess is world-renowned; how else can historians explain Woodrow Wilson dropping out to attend a much easier Princeton?
Athletes are forced to maintain eligibility through academic performance and success on the field against nationally-ranked opponents. Keep in mind
that other teams have the benefits of performance-enhancing aids such as surrogate SAT takers and study guides that oddly resemble
the tests. Davidson athletes receive no special treatment and must juggle the rigors of three-hour seminars and practices.

In an effort to alleviate some of these pressures, Davidson athletes should be on the aggregate test system, first implemented
at Memphis University. The system models UEFA Champions League Soccer where teams play home and away matches and combine the
scores of both games to determine who has the most goals and should advance. The aggregate test system to be
implemented at Davidson takes two test scores and adds them together. Simply put, if a student-athlete receives a 45% on
a test, they would only need to receive a 50% on the next test to receive an A. For the
more valuable athletes, the system would add together GPA points for each class instead of averaging them. Athletes receiving three
1.0 marks deservingly would get a 3.0 for the semester.

A second academic stimulus package involves quality hours spent at the library. Athletes should receive 0.1 points on their GPA
for every hour spent in the library and receive the “and one” on weekends, which gives them 0.2 points for
every weekend hour spent. These systems would take away some of the stress for Davidson athletes to ensure that if
they are not a top ten draft pick to the NBA, they can go with Plan B and attend Yale
Law.

Athlete privileges also should extend outside the classroom and into other realms on campus. In Commons, the Division 1 athlete
should be wined and dined in a private room complete with individual chefs and waiters. The food provided should not
only be compliments of the house but also be worthy of feeding European royalty. Second, athletes should receive preferential selection
in the housing lottery with the option of living in a lake-front home or settling for President Ross’s private residence.
Of course, rooming would be accompanied with all the amenities, including a live-in butler.

Finally, atrocities similar to Steve Rossiter’s horror story should be avoided. Upon signing with the Wildcats, Rossiter received 2 Davidson
t-shirts, a box of Angel-Soft toilet paper from Tomlinson, and 15 non-refundable McBucks redeemable at a local Des Moines McDonalds.
Instead of these paltry gifts, athletes should be showered with an infinity sign on their CatCard balance, usable wherever Visa
is accepted.

Although it is unlikely that we will see these changes in the near future, athletes should be compensated for their
services to the school. Athletes provide valuable entertainment to the student population and give the Wildcat meaning beyond the dictionary
definition required for the freshman W Course, Animal Questions. We are not putting athletes on a pedestal, but it might
be wise and fair to redirect all academic scholarships to the athlete fund.

Charlie Reiter ’10 is a Political Science major from Westport, CT. Mauricio Simms ’11 is a Philosophy major from Bowie,
MD. Mark Millard ’12 is undeclared. He is from Oak Head, NC. They can be contacted at chreiter@davidson.edu, masimms@davidson.edu, and
mamillard@davidson.edu, respectively.

Obama deserving of Nobel Prize

CLINT SMITH
Perspectives Editor

Much fuss was made last week regarding the Nobel Committee’s decision to award President Barack Obama the Nobel Peace Prize.
The decision took many around the world by surprise considering that Obama was not even thought to have been on
the preliminary shortlist of nominees. Obama, while surprised himself, stated that he was both honored and deeply humbled to receive
the award that puts him in the company of some of the most transformative figures in human history.

Since receiving the award, however, Obama has had to endure an unrelenting series of verbal onslaughts from those who believe
that he is not worthy of the award. Critics claim that he has not done enough in his tenure as
president to warrant such an honor. They have called the Nobel Committee’s decision both irresponsible and reckless, saying that giving
an award to someone who has “yet to accomplish anything” dilutes the significance of what the award should stand for.

Firstly, let us examine the explanation that the Nobel Committee gave for awarding President Obama the prize in the first
place. They state: Obama has as President created a new climate in international politics... Dialogue and negotiations are preferred as
instruments for resolving even the most difficult international conflicts. The vision of a world free from nuclear arms has powerfully
stimulated disarmament and arms control negotiations... Only very rarely has a person captured the...world’s attention to the same extent as
Obama and given people hope for a better future. His diplomacy is founded on the concept that those who are
to lead the world must do so on the basis of values and attitudes that are shared by the majority
of the world’s population. It is clear that the committee’s decision to award Obama the prize was to commend him
for the global movement of peace, diplomacy, and compassion that he has created, and to give this movement momentum so
that its initiatives may succeed in the future. Critics claim that this is not the purpose of the award and
Obama should not have such an exception made for him. This notion of Obama having been given some sort of
special treatment that no other Nobel Laureate has received before, however, is perhaps the biggest misinterpretation of the award. This
is not the first time, nor will it be the last, that the committee has given an award to create
forward momentum for a worthy cause. In 1935, the committee awarded the peace prize to Carl von Ossietzky, a journalist
who the committee claimed symbolized domestic opposition to the rise of Adolf Hitler. The Nazi regime was not toppled until
1945. In 1984, the Nobel Committee awarded the peace prize to Archbishop Desmond Tutu in recognition of his continuous and
inspirational work against apartheid in South Africa. It would be another ten years until apartheid fell. President Jimmy Carter was
awarded the prize for the relentless pursuit of peace in the Middle East, despite the fact that the region is
still filled with violence and turmoil. The list goes on. The point is that the Nobel Prize is often used
to recognize those putting in the hard work and effort to make the world a better place, rather than picking
someone to give credit to after the job is done. Who is to say that the Nobel Prize did not
give Archbishop Tutu the motivation to continue in his ultimately successful fight against apartheid, even when it seemed like all
his effort was for naught? Who is to say that the situation in the Middle East might not be worse
had Jimmy Carter not been inspired to create an entire organization dedicated to that cause after receiving the award? Who
is to say that the Nobel Prize given to von Ossietzky did not provide the inspiration for others to stand
up and fight against the tyranny that eventually brought down Hitler’s regime? What naysayers seem not to understand is that
President Obama’s success cannot be measured by the concrete and statistical means they are attempting to do so with. What
he has done since bursting onto the world scene is to provide hope, inspiration, and confidence that better days lie
ahead. The global movement of political awareness and involvement he has created is unprecedented. The hope he has provided young
black boys who can now watch TV and see a black man who is the President rather than a criminal,
entertainer, or athlete is immeasurable. And the fact that he has created an environment where the rest of the world
is willing to work with us rather than against us regarding global issues will only increase our national and global
security. In a display of extreme gratitude, Obama has said that he will be donating the entire $1.4 million to
charity. You may not agree with the choice of Obama as the recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize. You would
have that right seeing as how there are countless other worthy candidates. But do not, for a second, think that
he is undeserving. For 108 years, the Nobel Committee has given it to the person who has done his or
her utmost to make the world a better place. This year, Obama is that man. Clint Smith ’10 is a
senior English major from New Orleans, LA. Contact him at clsmith@davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2009

...ing the addicts to their new support group in the opening moments of their fill-in-the-blank anonymous meeting. Yet, immediately following
the utterance of those words, they are accepting pie in the world. Our prisons are overpopulated. Our education system doesn’t
seem to address the complete disdain for foreigners. Oh, they want to join the party. The streets are filled with
health-care opponents. He is now a Nazi because he isn’t playing the four presidents have. And the sense of entitlement
for the American Dream proves stagnant in the effort to better the lives of those in a struggling community. The
incentive to better the country only for the outcry concerning the complementing lesson plans was partially convincing. But when he
insisted that hard work, dedication, and strong families are the keys to a successful education and it was spun into
an attempt at Marxist indoctrination, the credibility of the American people was put into question. There are devastating emergencies that
are not being addressed in proportion to their importance. We have been unable to democratically speak to each other about
acceptable and practical solutions to the health care problem, the illegal immigration debate, the increasing debt, and the wars overseas.
We have divided ourselves into distinct...
