6

The Davidsonian

Staff Writer

With the third week of classes underway and the excitement of returning to campus disappearing in the familiar cloud of
stress, a break for entertainment entices the senses. If music is your preferred method of escape, look no further than
this week’s Live Thursday performance featuring Alexis Valauri-Orton ’12. She will be joined for the first time by a band
comprised of Mark Crowley ’11 on drums, Elizabeth Crowder ’12 on cello, Galen Bradley ’10 on bass, Michael on guitar,
and Ryan Cockman ’10 on violin. She writes her own music and lyrics and even postponed Davidson for a year
to develop her songwriting. She enrolled in a musical technology and production class this semester and plans to record some
songs and hopefully an EP.

Arts & Living

Gamers rock at Union

Her soothing and ethereal voice won her many Davidson fans last year, and she has since developed her style into
a more acoustic sound. Valauri-Orton feels pleased with her switch from solo artist to full band. This change promises to
delight. “It is a chance to show everyone what my music really sounds like in my mind. It’s a better
reflection of me than my old stuff,” she said. The opportunity to view unseen facets of students you always see
walking through Chambers, munching at Commons, or typing more about the people you attend school with, or just want to
hear some great music.

The Cook’s Corner

By ELLEN VISER
Staff Writer

North Carolina Pulled Pork Sandwiches

Barbequed, pulled pork is a southern culinary staple, and one of my very favorite treats. This version uses a slow
cooker, so it’s much easier to prepare than traditional pulled pork from the grill, and the slow cooking will tenderize
tough cuts of meat, so even inexpensive cuts will be delicious. Enjoy!

3-4 pounds Pork Shoulder (or any cut of pork that looks good)
1 onion, cut into wedges
¼ cup hot water
1 bottle of your favorite BBQ Sauce
6 Sandwich buns

Place wedges of onion on the bottom of the slow cooker and, after trimming fat, place pork on top of
onions. Add water. Cook on high setting for 4 hours. Remove meat from cooker, and shred using 2 forks. Remove
onion wedges and discard. Return meat to the slow cooker. Add half the bottle of BBQ sauce, and cook on
low setting for 30 more minutes. Serve on warm, soft buns and spoon extra sauce on top of meat. For
an authentic southern sandwich, add a scoop of crunchy, vinegar-based coleslaw. Serves 6.

Pulled pork sandwiches are a southern institution! Cook them in your apartment or dorm kitchen for a great lunch or
dinner.

Wed. 9/9
Thur. 9/10
Sun. 9/13
Tue. 9/15

This looks like a great day to do your homework. All day.

Homecoming 2009
“Turmoil in Iran: What’s Next?” with Robin Wright
Tyler-Tallman Hall 7:30-9:00 p.m.

Homecoming 2009
Brad Gooch Reading
6:30-8:00 p.m.
Duke Family Performance Hall

Homecoming 2009
Lazy Sunday at the Lake Campus
1-4:00 p.m.

Football Game v. Lenoir-Rhyne
1 p.m.

Live Thursday: Alexis V.O.
8 p.m.
900 Room

“Applying Green Chemistry in the Pharmaceutical Industry.”
Martin B25 2:30 p.m.

Premedical Director's Meeting
Lilly Family Gallery 6:30-8:00 p.m.

Outpost Trivia Night
11 p.m.

Film Screenings: Disney Night
900 Room 8 p.m.

Pancake Breakfast & The Davidson Show
10 p.m.
Union Atrium

“Get Lost” by Doug
900 Room 10 p.m.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2009

Board tournament

By Katie VOEGTLI
Staff Writer

Once upon a time, the boys of 4th Rich,Led by their patriarchal hall counselor Stephen Pierce ’10, they passed their
Friday nights in the brotherly, sub-free pursuit of Rock Band excellence. They were “just having fun.” Those days are over,
thanks largely to Melissa Guzman ’11, who arranged a DDR and Rock Band tournament last Saturday night in the 900
Room. Besides procuring the precious gaming equipment, she rustled up lucrative prizes that included $50 gift certificates to Best Buy.

Competition crackled in the 900 Room as the former 4th Rich hall mates gathered for an epic Rock Band face-off.
The first band, who called themselves Stephen Miracle Ryan Taylor (SMRT), opened the night with their smashing single “Float On”
as a team consisting of Alex Diel, Aaron Diel, and Benjamin Heimfeld ’12 (AAB) scrambled for a lead singer. Much
to the young men’s surprise, three new champs strutted to the scene, calling themselves Blaze. One member of the group,
Max, stunned the crowd by throwing back a bottle of root beer with manly vigor while his sidekicks, Preston and
Ben, warmed up with a DDR match.

Meanwhile, the DDR champ Jimmy Rountree ’11 reveled in uncontested dominance. His graceful technique, refined by four years of practice,
has attracted fans by the dozens in arcades across Mecklenburg County. Crowds cannot help but gape with awe as he
taps out 300-string combos on the expert level, feet flying. Though a few foolhardy hopefuls tried their luck against him
over the course of the evening, the ensuing slaughter was so pronounced that their names did not even make it
into the bracket. Nor did Rountree falter when the noise of Rock Band drowned out DDR’s humble hum.

With so many ways to enjoy America’s favorite fruit, we can only hope that it will be saved. Will scientists
be able to save the banana before it is too late?

“I don’t like Guitar Hero,” said Rountree. “Everyone played DDR before, but they don’t want to get sweaty. And they’re
afraid of looking like idiots. I don’t mind looking like an idiot.” Guzman noted that Rock Band can be just
as intense. Band members often “rock out too hard,” she said. “Drumsticks break. Feet get sore hitting the pedal.” Clearly,
both games are fraught with challenge and danger. But they forge heroes.

Late into the night, AAB recruited Jane McGraw, a member of the Davidson Chorale Group, to sing for them. Wilson
Mericle ’12, the charming lead singer of SMRT, looked on with complacency, as his mind drifted away with dreams of
a future record deal. As the minutes flew by, others broke onto the scene. Jimmy the Juggler, a visitor from
Atlanta, GA, shadowed Rountree for some time and at last challenged him to a duel. Here, Rountree pulled yet another
rabbit from his hat by playing the game with only his hands. Jimmy the Juggler was roasted in seconds. Needless
to say, Rountree victoriously left the stage, his hard-earned gift card nestled proudly in his pocket.

The battle of the bands raged on in a thrilling three-round tournament. While Blaze left after the second round, they
displayed admirable spirit. When Round 3 finally drew to a close, all the spectators held their breath as Pierce pulled
out a calculator. Audience members balked and urged him to compute the final scores mentally. Pierce scoffed. “We’re Davidson students,”
he said. “We’re smarter than that!” In the end, SMRT triumphed with 1,621,101 points, and beat the second-place team by
946,968 points. Despite the crushing defeat, goodwill and camaraderie triumphed at the epic DDR and Guitar Hero tournament.
