THE DAVIDSONIAN

INAUGURAL EDITION

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009

BOOKSTORE NOW ACCEPTING ARM, LEG, FIRSTBORN CHILD
SEE PAGE 8

BASKETBALL TICKET PICK-UP: A LET-DOWN
SEE PAGE 4

IT DOESN’T SNOW AT DAVIDSON
SEE OUTSIDE

FACEBOOK STATUS CHANGED A RECORD 281 TIMES IN A DAY
SEE PAGE 6

SCARVES: LONG, FUZZY, AWKWARD, STUDY SHOWS
SEE PAGE 2

GIRL HOSPITALIZED FOR JAUNDICE, LATER DETERMINED TO BE FRENCH’S® MUSTARD POISONING
SEE PAGE 7

THE YOWL

Your Davidson Honor Section

Editors:
Alex Greening
Gary Busey

Ex-Editors, Writers:
Alex Hoyt
Dan Killian

Celebrity Muse:
Lance Harden

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

Busy bees and BAC’s

ABC Unveils First “True” Reality TV Show

Simon Cowell will host ABC’s newest primetime reality show, American Idle, in which contestants will be critiqued on their sloth,
gluttony, and ability to watch hours of useless television. Panel judges will include Diego Maradona and the entire cast of
Half Baked. In the network premiere episode, contestants will be required to will a Cheetoh from the floor into their
slobbering, pathetic mouths. Their stamina will then be tested with a thirty-minute screening of The Real World: Delaware, Are You
Smarter Than a Goat?, and Who Wants to Win a Million Nairs©? Any remaining participants will be asked to play
20 rounds of pogs while their mothers will repeatedly call their cell phones yelling at them to get a job.
Make sure and stay tuned for ABC’s next gem, Survive-her: Your mother-in-law. If you're still watching after this back-to-back marathon
of mind-decaying filth, consider entering as a contestant for American Idle 2, or, even better, wipe the drool off your
flannel shirt.

Raunchy Research: Scandal at the Ref. Desk

E.H. Little Library — Reference Librarian Helen Bailey was consulted and insulted for the first time in her six-year employment
at Davidson. Awkward senior Jeffrey Grabowski cornered Bailey at her desk for over an hour and a half while doing
research for his first-ever date.

“I just want to know what to do when the time is right,” Grabowski explained. “I’ve read a few anatomy
textbooks before so I know where everything’s located. I just need advice on the ‘tender touch.’”

Administrators plan to revise the motto, “Have a question? Ask a librarian,” in order to avoid birds-and-bees tutorials in the
future.

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER
Heinze, French’s® to Sponsor Self-Selection Night 2010

Patterson Court— Eating houses, fraternities, and other spectators all gathered to celebrate the Class of 2012’s participation in the Patterson
Court Community. While scantily-clad fraternity men prepared to race through the women’s houses, the women themselves were celebrating one of
America’s proudest traditions: condiments.

Approximately $5,000 was spent on sauces, marinades, gravies, and other assorted edible, semi-liquid products for the night’s festivities. A representative
from the H. J. Heinz Company was on hand to witness the event and was astounded by the typically American
wastefulness and scale of consumption. “There must have been a layer of relish four inches deep,” he said. “That level
of commitment should be rewarded.”

Connor girl Julie Ladd ’10 shared her excitement about the sponsorship deal offered them. “We'll have to change from the
traditional camouflage outfits to those goofy ketchup costumes, but it'll be worth it. They’re bringing the cute, male, tomato sauce
version of the RedBull girls,” she said. Corporate involvement in school traditions has generally been frowned upon, but due to
recent economic developments, Davidson College administrators are warming to corporate advances.

The new partnership, taking effect next fall, would prohibit any mustard besides French’s® Classic Yellow variety to be served anywhere
on campus. In return, eating houses would be offered condiments at wholesale prices and would be involved in advanced product
testing for the companies.

“I think this is a smart move for us, monetarily and gastronomically,” former self-selection chair Naomi Norris ’11 said. “Everyone
from Bert & Rocky’s to Cookout is taking note of our signature series of toppings. It’s time to supersize.”

Obama Nails Speech, Screws Oath

Washington, D.C.—History in the making, it seems, has as much grandeur as blundering. Millions took to the streets as Obama
flawlessly delivered a near 20-minute speech outlining the challenges to be faced and met during the four years of his
presidency. When it was time to repeat the oath that would swear him into office, however, Obama had some trouble.
“It was the verbal equivalent of a handshake attempt encountering a high five,” said one Davidson observer. “Just awkward. Embarrassing
to witness.”

Chief Justice John Roberts was delivering the oath Obama was to recite when Obama “straight up jumped the gun.” The
soon-to-be president cut off Roberts mid-sentence and a stuttering, confused moment ensued. Roberts quickly resumed the ceremony.

The Chief Justice seemed unconcerned with the leap-frog of recitations that occurred. “Coulda happened to anyone,” he shrugged. “First day
of school, you get nervous...same kind of deal.”

GOP spokespeople pointing to the event claim Obama is not a team player. Said Oregon Senator Charles Mueller (R), “Today
was all Obama. I was more worried about how Bush is handling things—moving out is always a stressful experience.”
