The Iliad

Aquila Company performs ‘Iliad’

Carey LEIGH EVANS
Staff Writer

Achilles, Agamemnon, and Odysseus sail to the shores of Duke Performance Hall tonight as the Aquila Theatre Company performs Homer’s “Iliad.” This production is part of the C. Shaw and Nancy K. Smith Artist Series presented by the Union Board.

The Aquila Theatre Company was founded in 1991 in London by Peter Meineck. It is now based in New York City. The company states that its mission is “to bring the greatest works to the greatest number” with reinterpretations of classical drama. On the website, the company describes itself as teaching and exchanging ideas while collaborating across the performing arts with a commitment to artistic excellence.

The “Iliad” story, a foremost piece of classical literature, is the epic poem about the Greeks during a 10-day period that takes place nine years into the Trojan War. Conflict arises between Agamemnon, the commander of the Greeks, and Achilles, the Greeks’ most powerful warrior. In the Aquila Theatre rendition, the company has chosen the main parts of the story for their 75-minute production that will combine ritualistic movement and original music.

The American Reporter writes, “The Aquila Theatre Company takes Homer’s 800 B.C. epic poem about the last year of the Greeks’ 10-year war with Troy and, with Stanley Lombardo’s trenchant translation, turns it into a relevant modern political play. It is anti-war and it is feminist. If you want to know theater as a transforming artistic experience, see this production.”

Several of Davidson’s courses, including students on the humanities track and in Dr. Brian Shaw’s Justice and Piety class, tackle Homer’s epic poetry as a central part of their syllabi. “I’m excited to see the ‘Iliad’ after reading it in class. I’m interested to see how they will adapt the characters. Also, since ‘Iliad’ is such a long poem, I’m curious to see which sections and conversations they will choose as most important,” said Elaina Reinsvold ’12. Reinsvold is on the two-year humanities track and holds Artist Series season tickets.

Kent Poges ’12, a student in the writing course “Justice and Piety,” is currently reading the text. “I saw ‘Troy’ the movie, which was pretty good, so it would be interesting to compare them and see what liberties each producer took with Homer’s masterfully composed epic poem,” he said.

The New York Times reports that the production “[is] a performance of staggering power... stunning, stirring and memorable theatrical experience.” Backstage says, “If you see only one piece of theatre this year—see Aquila’s Iliad.”

Tickets are eight dollars for students, 15 dollars for faculty and staff, and 20 dollars for the general public. Doors open at 7:30 p.m. for an 8:00 p.m. performance. For more information, call 704-894-2192.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2005

Brit Price ’08 breaks college-grad mold with new CD

JON WOLF
Staff Writer

Brit Price ’08 is hosting a CD release party on Feb. 5 at Amos’ Southend Music Hall in Charlotte. The doors will open at 7:30 p.m. for her show, and admission is free.

Price is an up-and-coming pop singer who has a background in classical piano with training from Julliard instructors, and she also attended an intensive summer program at Berklee College of Music. Since her graduation from Davidson in 2008, Price has been busy in Charlotte with a band called MILO. This group has also performed here on campus many times in the past few years.

Her passion for songwriting has resulted in this, her debut album, which, except for one piece, is composed of all original music. Price’s vocal style is velvety and powerful, and she is able to maintain the edge of Gwen Stefani from No Doubt while also possessing a softer side reminiscent of Norah Jones. Her music is pop/rock, but also soulful, with influences from blues, classic rock, and even folk. Her original lyrics draw on her own experiences and her performance style invites listeners to relate personally to the music.

With a voice likened to that of Natalie Merchant and Bonnie Raitt, and a soulful style that has been compared to Wynonna Judd, each of Price’s songs carries a new message and a new story; her voice conveys a range of emotion and skillful musicality.

“It would mean a lot to me to have the Brit Price ready...To make her mark post-Davidson with some songwriting and a great set of pipes. "Support of the Davidson community because Davidson was, and still is, a huge part of my life," Price said. Her Feb. 5 CD release party’s venue, Amos’ Southend Music Hall, is considered to be Charlotte’s premier live music club. For more information about her show, see Amos’ Southend’s website at www.amossouthend.com, or Price’s Myspace page at www.myspace.com/britprice08.

Student-artist profile: Ryan Cockman
STACIE BINNEY
Staff Writer

I don’t think there’s anything I have really appreciated for 15 years. When I was four, I was definitely more concerned with crayons and “The Jungle Book” than starting any sort of long-lasting hobby or beginning my instrumental debut. Ryan Cockman ’10, however, had a very different youth. Along with learning how to tie his shoes and memorizing the names of the Power Rangers, he began playing the violin and has continued through his childhood, adolescence, and now college years with the same instrument.

“I’ve been playing for 15 years, since the first grade,” Cockman said. “My older sister played the cello first, and I got a violin instead, just to spite her.”

If you don’t yet know Cockman by his musical abilities or his unmistakable curly 'fro of blonde hair, you’ll probably spot him sooner or later around campus; he has managed to incorporate his passion for music into all areas of student life. He currently holds the position of Concert Master for the Davidson College Symphony Orchestra, the position of music director for the student-organized radio station WALT, and is part of the Aurora Trio, a piano chamber music group on campus.

For the radio station, Cockman talks to promotional companies and receives free CDs to play on-air in exchange for charting the top songs played by college radio stations. He also often DJs with friend Craig Cangemi ’10, and the two have created their own heavy metal show.

“I don’t have a whole lot of free time,” said Cockman. “I have to balance that out.”

Cockman still enjoys a social life on this busy campus as a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, where he “frats hard” with his brothers, despite his busy course load and fulfilling requirements for his Music Performance major. All the while, he has diversified his résumé to include both drums and keyboarding, which have served to further his musical skills and pending hip-hop career.

“I’ve been playing the drums for six years... I played in a lot of garage bands in high school,” he said. “And I usually make beats for rap songs on the keyboard.” Besides rap and classical, he also enjoys electronic and heavy metal. Iron Maiden is one of his favorite bands.

And with such a diverse and passionate involvement in music, it comes as no surprise that Cockman hopes to continue his chief interest after college. “I would like to go on to perform but eventually I know I’d have to get my doctorate and teach,” Cockman said. “Probably music, though. I’d love to teach French Impressionistic music.”

This accomplished student has already started to educate the surrounding area about classical music by incorporating works by Josef Haydn as part of the set-list for the Aurora Trio’s last performance. Along with pianist Emily Howe ’09 and cellist Jackie Kim ’10, the three students practice their piano trio off-campus to prepare for Davidson recitals. One recital is held each semester, and if you missed this past December’s performance in Tyler-Tallman, another is tentatively scheduled for mid-April.

Thur. 1/29
Fri. 1/30
Sat. 1/31
Sun. 2/1
Mon. 2/2
Tue. 2/3

Mint Museum of Art, Andy Warhol Portfolios: Life & Legends (thru February 15)
MBB Ticket Pick Up 7:30 AM
Corey Smith to perform at Amos’ Southend at 7 p.m.
Super Bowl Sunday!
Decision Panel at 4 p.m. in Room 313 in the Union.
Potluck Dinner 6 p.m.
Music Majors Series
Eric Schlosser will deliver the Z. Smith Reynolds Lecture at 8 p.m. in the Duke Family Performance Hall.
THE APOCALYPSE: Bart Ehrman Lecture at 7:30 p.m. in the Lilly Family Gallery
Greek Step Show 8 p.m. Duke Family Performance Hall
Jon Sawyer, Pulitzer Center Director - Public Lecture at 7 p.m. in Tyler-Tallman Hall
SGA presidential candidates debate at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Souperbowl V-Union Noon - 2 p.m.