6 Tue

DAVIDSONIAN

BEN IRELAND
Senior Staff Writer

Over-active libidos, catchy arias, and an outstanding performance: put these together, and you have the three main elements of Mozart’s “The Marriage of Figaro.” This past Thursday, Opera Carolina in uptown Charlotte performed a fresh presentation of “Figaro,” an 18th-century chef d’oeuvre by Mozart that serves as a sequel to Carolina’s January production of Rossini’s “The Barber of Seville.” “Figaro” was produced under the guidance of renowned conductor James Meena.

To give a brief overview of “Figaro,” let’s imagine a scene that unravels three years after “The Barber” and recounts a single day in the palace of Count Almaviva. Figaro has entered into Count Almaviva’s service where he serves as his personal attendant and the concierge of his castle. Figaro is engaged to the beautiful Suzanne, who is the Countess’ chambermaid. The Count eventually ceases to desire his wife and becomes attracted to Suzanne. The Count realizes that he could use the right of “primae noctis” to his advantage (this is an alleged legal right that allowed a lord to take the virginity of those in his estate). With the help of the Countess’ crooked music teacher, Basilio, the Count inches his way toward Suzanne. When Suzanne finds out, she reveals everything to her fiancé Figaro and the Countess. Eventually, the Count fails to seduce Suzanne and throws himself at his wife’s feet, begging for forgiveness. Meanwhile, Figaro and Suzanne marry and live happily ever after.

What makes “Figaro” such an amazing opera, apart from its witticisms, is the simplicity of the musical score. Whereas the orchestral and vocal selections are much more complex in “The Barber,” “Figaro” keeps the musical gymnastics at a minimum. “Mozart’s music is made up of uncomplicated ingredients,” Meena said during an interview with The Charlotte Observer. “But there’s nothing simplistic about what Mozart does with them. It’s so simple, it’s brilliant.” The stage setting was somewhat untraditional, providing for an immediacy that most viewers cannot experience at a more orthodox opera presentation.

New band ‘The Taints’ ready to party

Friends turned bandmates: Matt Carney '41 and Michael Foglia '11 are excited about their new band The Taints.

STACIE BINNEY
Staff Writer

One of Davidson’s newest bands to enter the campus scene is The Taints. Composed entirely of sophomores Michael Foglia, Matthew Carney, and Dean Kellogg, the trio combines the Beatles and Ol’ Dirty Bastard by covering oldies as well as creating original tunes.

“Senior year of high school I had a dream about a band named The Taints,” Foglia said. “Last summer Carney and I took a road trip and started talking about it, and The Taints were born somewhere in Tennessee.” At the beginning of this year, Foglia and Carney started the band they had always talked about. Foglia describes himself as the “lead screamer” of the band, with Carney as “backup screamer” and guitar. Kellogg was later added as the percussion. Though each played an instrument in high school, the three have never been officially involved in a band before this year.

“I played guitar for a couple of years in high school, from seventh to tenth grade,” Carney said. “Some of my friends had a band, and when I went off to boarding school, I would still play with them sometimes.” So far, The Taints have been gradually breaking into the music scene with recording sessions in Sloan, where they practice covers of well-known hits such as “Brown-Eyed Girl,” “Twist and Shout,” “Here Comes the Sun,” “Tiny Dancer,” and “Tainted Love.” The boys are branching out into original songs as well, such as tunes entitled “Red Racket,” “Lamplight,” and “Honey Bunches (of Oats).” Despite constantly writing new songs, the boys’ main purpose in starting The Taints is just to have fun. The trio, who enjoy playing with bouncy balls and eating jellybeans, emits a certain playfulness and enthusiasm thatadds to the band’s carefree atmosphere. “We'll look into playing at a court party or the Outpost,” Foglia said, whose claim to musical fame includes having a sculpture of his head made by Nelly’s daughter during high school. In fact, the boys’ major influences include Kanye West and Lil’ Wayne. “Lil’ Wayne, I listen to him so much,” Foglia said. “Yeah, I could see us one day doing ‘Tie My Hands’ as a cover,” Carney said. Other favorites include the Beatles, of which Carney is a huge fan. He attended Beatles conventions in his youth and bought all the t-shirts and posters he could find. Finally, Kellogg’s major interest includes the quick drumming of Blink 182’s Travis Barker. Kellogg, laughing through the interview, was apparently invited into the band “because of his creativity.” Because the group lacks a bass player, he notes that the band has a similar sound to the White Stripes. So Davidson, look out for The Taints in the future. This band emanates fun and creativity in all their idiosyncrasies, and make sure you check them out if they happen to appear in “Battle of the Bands” this spring.

Fri. 3/20
Sat. 3/21

WEDNESDAY, March 18, 2009

The orchestra pit was elevated so that its floor leveled off with the main stage, and the orchestra performed behind the cast. The costume design by AT Jones included beautiful wigs, wardrobes, and makeup. The director decided to forego typical sets and replace them with simple furniture. According to Meena, Opera Carolina saved approximately $80,000 by not having elaborate sets and experienced stagehands for the performance. “Opera Carolina’s production of ‘Figaro’ did not disappoint,” Nolan Boyd ’12, who also attended the Thursday night showing, said. “The singers had strong voices, and the opera’s more comedic aspects kept the audience entertained in between the arias. Mozart’s music, of course, was a triumph,” Boyd continued. I thoroughly enjoyed “Figaro,” though at certain points, the orchestral music slightly overpowered the vocal harmonies. The hard work and dedication of all actors, including Ailyn Pérez (Countess Almaviva), Kristopher Irmiter (Figaro), and Anne-Carolyn Bird (Susanna), were deservedly and wildly applauded. I urge you to take a drive out to Charlotte and see Carolina’s next performance of Puccini’s famous “Turandot” on April 16, 18, and 19.

Robert Gwynn ’69 presented student writing awards last Wednesday.

Awards, from page 5

esteemed “Great Books.” In her essay, “Elite Reading: Cultural Literacy and the Assignment of Literacy Value,” Lehr responds to a National Education Association report called “To Read or Not to Read” that laments the declining rates of “literary reading” in America. The additional recipients of the R. Windley Hall and Charles E. Lloyd Writing Awards in creative and scholarly non-fiction prose are: Molly Barnes ’09, Suzie Eckl ’09, Kate Wiseman ’09, Lyz Pfister ’09, Kristina Johnson ’10, Joel Eisenhofer ’12, Chizoba Olushola ’12, Colby Howard ’12, Amanda Ottaway ’12, Hannah Wright ’12, and Nolan Boyd ’12.

Thur. 3/19
Sun. 3/22
Mon. 3/23
Tue. 3/24

Freedom for the Faces | Stress Busters | Carolina Pro Musica | 5K Walk for Water
Piano Studio Chris Johanson: An Evening of Cham- Come hear personal 10 AM - 1:30 PM 12:30 PM for Sudan, 9 AM
Recital I CONTINUALITY ber Music, 7:30 PM stories about mental Union Atrium Tyler-Tallman Meet at Baker
7:30 PM Open through April 15 | Tyler-Tallman Hall health issues Sports Tyler-Tallman Visual Arts Center 9:30 PM, 900 Room

“Entering the Field | Chemistry Colloqui- of Law” w/ President | um, 2:30 PM, Martin | Davidson Farmer’s Liberal Art: An Inter- Outpost Trivia Night Ross and Bill Es- Market disciplinary Exhibition ’70s night kridge, 8 PM, Hance 9-11:00 AM of Art from the Perma- 11:00 PM
Bailemos! PS Ban- nent Collection “Why My Body Is 6 PM, Lilly Gallery Open through March Not Me” E.J. Lowe Student Tickets: $15 Live Music, Summit 22, Visual Arts Center Philosophy Lecture Bands Davidson Ex- 4:30 PM, Cham 3155 Spades Tournament press, and Davidson 7:30-9:30 PM Local, 8-11 PM Live Thursdays 10 Union Atrium PM, 900 Room