6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cook’s Beef Chili
ELLEN VISER
Staff Writer

In the midst of this unusually cool fall weather, there is nothing more comforting than a big bowl of hot,
flavorful chili. Serve with cornbread and top with shredded cheddar cheese or a dollop of sour cream for a delicious
treat.

Ingredients:
- 1 large onion, chopped
- 3 garlic cloves, minced
- 2 medium carrots, chopped
- 3 tbsp olive oil
- 2 tbsp chili powder
- 1 tbsp sugar
- 3 lb ground beef
- 28 oz can diced tomatoes
- 28 oz can Rotel (spicy, stewed diced tomatoes)
- 14 oz can kidney beans, drained
- 14 oz can black beans, drained
- 14 oz can pinto beans, drained
- 1 tsp hot sauce (adjust as desired)
- Salt and pepper, to taste

Directions:
In a pan, brown beef and set aside. In a large stovetop pot, heat oil. Add garlic, onions, and carrots,
and cook until tender but not brown, about 5 minutes. Add chili powder, and cook 3 minutes while stirring frequently.
Add browned beef and all tomatoes and beans. Bring to a boil, and then reduce heat and cover. Simmer over
low heat for 2 hours, stirring occasionally.

People. Power. Pork.
ABBEY THIBEAULT
Staff Writer

“Listen,” Scott Dye commanded, “these aren’t farms. They’re factories.” In 2000, Nicolette Hahn Niman toured a meat “farm” in Kansas
City, MO with Dye, a Sierra Club employee. What he saw led him to write *Righteous Porkchop: Finding a Life
and Good Food Beyond Factory Farms*, a book that examines the modern meat industry.

Niman began this investigation in 2000 as the senior attorney at Waterkeeper, an environmental group headed by Robert F. Kennedy,
Jr. Niman and Kennedy hoped to sue hog farming businesses for polluting rivers with manure and desired to lead “a
larger national crusade against industrialized animal operations.” Niman focused on the environmental benefits of local farms, but, along the way,
he also realized the economic and political benefits of ethical farming.

Large-scale animal operations prove especially damaging in North Carolina. Manure from run-off pollutes waterways, beaches, and fisheries. In one year
alone, more than a billion fish perished in the Neuse River from contamination by nearby farms. The dead fish had
open, bleeding wounds. Today, pork production emphasizes short-term profits over long-term consequences. Hog factories produce an insane amount of waste.
100,000 hogs in a factory farm produce the same amount of waste as a city of one million people. In
fact, one factory with 850,000 pigs makes more waste than the people of New York City. The untreated waste is
collected in large pools called “lagoons” and sprayed onto fields. The lagoons leak and run-off from the fields cause pollution.
Heavy metals, antibiotics, biocides, chemical disinfectants, pesticides, and viruses can all be found in the waste, according to Niman. This
pollution also takes a toll on the public by poisoning drinking water and causing miscarriages or fetal mutation.

Niman is not the first to investigate the pork industry. The “Boss Hog” series, published in the *Raleigh News &
Observer* in 1996, claims pork operations pay off the politicians so they can skirt environmental regulations. The *Observer* won the
Pulitzer Prize for this revealing study. Smithfield Farms is a large producer of pork in North Carolina. The company began
as a meatpacker, but soon started to purchase pig farms in an effort to control all parts of production. Factory
farming degrades animal husbandry and family farmers, and Smithfield’s method of vertical integration plagues pork production and crushes capitalist culture,
notes Kennedy. Niman also describes the pork industry as undemocratic. He points out that only eleven states have passed laws
criminalizing criticism of factory farming methods. Several other states, however, have outlawed photography of factory farms. Popular talk show host
Oprah Winfrey...was taken to court after hosting a show that criticized factory farming. This Saturday, October 24, the Environmental Action
Coalition and the Davidson Sustainability Office will host a pork roast on the porch of Vail Commons from 6-8 pm.
Local dishes, including pulled pork, will be served alongside vegetarian options. The purpose of “Power, People, and Pork” is to
inform the community of the value of local and sustainable food. The event is free, and families are welcome.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2009

ABERNETHY RESEARCH AWARD

Again this year, funds from the George L. Abernethy Endowment will be available to support worthy initiatives by current first-year,
sophomore, or junior students. [It is possible for us to fund a senior who expects to complete all research work
prior to graduation.] Individual awards fall into one of the following categories:

1) Independent student research in the humanities or social sciences, either in the US or abroad.
2) Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the academic year or the summer. [At the request of the donor, applications
are limited to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences.]

Application forms are available in the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283). Completed application forms are
due back in this office no later than 5:00 p.m. on Thursday, October 29, 2009. The announcement of awards should
occur prior to the exam period of the fall semester.

Frights and delights abound at DCPC’s organ series

JANE CAIN
Guest Writer

The keyboard artistry of Henry Lebedinsky at the powerful Wicks organ in Davidson College Presbyterian Church offers chilling background for
this year’s classic horror film “The Hunchback of Notre Dame” at 7:30 and 11 p.m., on Friday, October 30. The
spine-tingling event is part of DCPC’s Organ at Davidson series and is offered for the fourth year in the church
sanctuary facing the Davidson College campus at the corner of Main Street and Concord Road. Tickets are free.

First of the “universal monsters” or horror films, The Hunchback of Notre Dame was released in 1923 and starred Lon
Chaney, Sr. as Quasimodo, the tortured bell-ringer of Notre Dame Cathedral’s famed tower in 15th century Paris. Excitement abounds throughout
the film, made ever more frightening by Lebedinsky’s improvised organ music.

Henry Lebedinsky, Director of Music and Choirmaster at St. Alban’s Episcopal Church, earned his Master of Music in historical organ
performance at the Longy School of Music. As an active performer on organ, harpsichord, and clavichord, he plays recitals around
the country. He currently performs with The Firebird Chamber Orchestra and Seraphic Fire, both in Florida, The Wild Rose Ensemble
in California, and The Charlotte Symphony Orchestra. Among other activities—including the outstanding Music at St. Alban’s concert series—Henry Lebedinsky directs
the Ecclesia Ensemble, which specializes in female Baroque composers. For more details, visit www.dcpc.org or call 704-892-5641.

Wed. 10/21
Physics Lecture: “Hollow Nanoparticles Made Easy,” Dan Boyle, Physics Dept. Chair 7:30 p.m., Dana 146

Thur. 10/22
Laura Freixas Reading “Memory & ...” 4:30-5:30 p.m., Carolina Inn

Fri. 10/23
PARENTS’ WEEKEND 2009
Fall Convocation 10:30 a.m., Duke Family Performance Hall
“Tartuffe” 8 p.m., Duke Family Performance Hall

Sat. 10/24
PARENTS’ WEEKEND 2009
PARENTS’ WEEKEND 2009
“Tartuffe” 8 p.m., Duke Family Performance Hall

Sun. 10/25
PARENTS’ WEEKEND 2009
“Tartuffe” 2 p.m., Duke Family Performance Hall

Mon. 10/26
History Forum: “I Love History (but I don’t want to teach)” 4:30 p.m., 900 Room

Tue. 10/27
“The Holocaust and Memory,” led by Hilton Kelly and Scott Denham 4 p.m., Murdock
“The Journey Beyond Me: Desperate Economic Conditions and the Filipino Family,” an original documentary film by Jeevs 9 p.m., Duke
Family Performance Hall
