2 THE DAVIDSONIAN — THE NEWS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2009

Students support Ada Jenkins program for Latinas

Katie VOEGTLI
Staff Writer

In response to the difficulties facing the community’s Latina women, the Ada Jenkins Latino Development Services is making an effort to meet the need for services with their Latina Empowerment, Achievement, and Development Program (L.E.A.D.).

“Whether a family has to face illness, job loss, or other life situations, we know that all people have the ability to improve their lives, and we are here to help them do so,” the center’s website states. One of the more recent initiatives targets one of the most underserved groups in Davidson and at large, Latina women.

Latinos and Hispanics are the most underrepresented minority in the national workforce, and Latina women often must clear the hurdles of gender and racial biases to land a spot in the workforce. Targeted at Latina women across the North Mecklenburg area, this program strives to equip its participants with the skills and confidence necessary for participation and success in the job search. Besides providing resources for professional training, L.E.A.D. gives clients the necessary tools to conquer their job interview.

“We are very excited for a great year, and continue to take new volunteers.” 
-L.E.A.D. President Marianne Daniels ’12

One of the first steps for clients participating in the program is acquiring appropriate clothing for the job search. All participants are encouraged to browse Ada Jenkins’ closets, which are lined with professional business attire donated by sponsors and community members. Women are free to try on clothes until they decide on two power suits for interviews and job-seeking.

President of the Davidson chapter of L.E.A.D., Marianne Daniels '12, said that despite the vandalism and destruction of L.E.A.D.’s closets over the summer, they have since made positive progress. “We were lucky enough to receive the Sunshine Lady Grant, which will allow us to make significant improvements to the program,” Daniels said. “It came as a real blessing after the vandalism, because we had to purchase a lot of things over again. This time around, our closets are indestructible!”

After deciding on their business outfits, volunteers help women create and polish their resumes and give them tips for presenting themselves and their experiences in the most advantageous light before the day of their job interview. Women can prepare for this sometimes-stressful event by participating in mock interviews followed by debriefings with feedback and suggestions for improvement. The English skills of clients vary, but all are encouraged to bolster their proficiency by registering for free English classes.

All programs at the Ada Jenkins Center welcome volunteers, and L.E.A.D. especially needs those with Spanish language skills. Volunteers may choose to assist in any branch of the program — fashion, resume, job interview, or general client services. L.E.A.D. also accepts donations of professional attire.gently used professional clothing. The organization’s special events throughout the year include holiday fundraisers around Thanksgiving, Christmas, Easter, and Mother’s Day, as well as the Annual Gala. Over the course of the summer, Ada Jenkins compiled a list of over 100 women interested in taking part in L.E.A.D. “[We have] plenty of catching up to do!” Daniels said. “We are very excited for a great year, and continue to take new volunteers. If anyone is interested in learning more about the program, we meet every other Thursday at 9:00 pm, and we volunteer every Saturday from 1-3. Anyone is welcome, even if they only want to give it a try, they can e-mail madaniels or kafahy for more information.”

Iranian-American scholar visits Esfiandiari to share her story of imprisonment

CAROLINE WOOP
News Editor

Tomorrow, Dr. Haleh Esfandiari, a scholar specializing in Middle Eastern cultural and political development, will visit Davidson to address the campus on her work and experiences. “One Woman’s Story of Captivity in Iran” will relate the incidents of her 2007 imprisonment by the Iranian government. She was first detained and interrogated for attempting to leave the country after her passport had been stolen. Esfandiari claims that during subsequent questioning she was pressured into making a false confession of anti-government activities, a confession which she later withdrew. She was released after 110 days of solitary confinement in Evin Prison.

Esfandiari is the Director of the Middle East Program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, D.C., where she received that position after serving as a fellow from 1995-1996. She is the author of “My Prison, My Home: One Woman’s Story of Captivity in Iran,” forthcoming from Harper Collins Publishers this month, as well as “Reconstructed Lives: Women and Iran’s Islamic Revolution” (1997). Esfandiari served as the Deputy Secretary General of the Women’s Organization of Iran and has also worked at Princeton University, where she served as a professor of Persian language and literature, and is the recipient of a MacArthur Foundation Grant.

Esfandiari is visiting Davidson with the sponsorship of the World Affairs Council of Charlotte and in response to the invitation of Anna Van Hollen ’12, who worked with Dr. Esfandiari at the Woodrow Wilson Center last summer. “I think this is a really special opportunity for students because Haleh’s story is so unique,” Van Hollen said. “Her story of being imprisoned in her home country is as informative as it is moving. Every time you turn on the news these days there are people talking about Iran, but it is really rare that you hear from someone that has actually grown up there or actually been imprisoned there and Haleh has done both.”

The lecture will take place in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room at 5:30 p.m. and is free and open to the public.