om same fo the internet. The current Davidsonian staff must determine how to restructure our organization now in order to ensure its existence in the future. This is not a problem that we are facing alone. All print media has taken a huge blow in recent years as the internet becomes more prominent as a news source. The financial recession has also played into the situation: publishing, advertising, and buying subscriptions cost a fair share for newspapers, businesses, and readers respectively. These factors affect goliaths like we have become accustomed to seeing in constant circulation. But, like any organization that an economics major can tell you, businesses must make a profit in order to survive. At the moment, subscriptions for The Davidsonian are slightly lower than in years past. The internet can do some of these things, but it does not put a tangible physical product in your hands or on your doorstep every Wednesday night. Media will inevitably concentrate more closely on the potential of its online forms in the coming years, but nothing can compare to the direct access of flipping through a real newspaper. After all, we do our best to give you "all the news that’s fit to print."

The Davidsonian
Editor-in-Chief
Brett Willis

News Editors
Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood

Perspectives Editors
Bryan Norris & Clint Smith

Arts & Living Editor
Jennifer Gambrell

Yow! Editor
Alex Greening

Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis

Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Nami Patel

Business & Circulation Managers
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright

Online Editor
Greg Newman

Assistant Copy Editors
Joel Fineman, Ryan Price, Jeffrey Roth & Elizabeth Watts

Photography Staff
Tripp Bartholomew & Bill Gudiz

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Only the staff editorials represent the views of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Email Jordan Wall at jowall@davidson.edu for advertising inquiries.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2009

Everyone knows the old saying: when your neighbor’s house is on fire, you don’t haggle over the price of your hose. The meaning of this old adage applies to the government’s actions a little over a year ago when Congress passed the Troubled Asset Relief Program and in essence saved the economy of the United States. The vindicating thought behind the government going into debt to save the economy is simply that those with the means to help others in times of crisis have the responsibility to do so. Nobody would be better off had the government not stepped in and, in the words of Fed Chief Ben Bernanke, “saved the economy.” Now, as the health care bills go to the Senate floor to be melded into one bill, it is important to remember that we have the means to provide coverage for the approximately fifty million Americans and, therefore, the moral obligation as a developed and civilized culture to come to their assistance.

Scott Matthews

I believe that the best way for the government to reduce the federal deficit is to solve domestic problems. Helping those in need is nothing new; in fact, we have helped people in far worse states than those with pre-existing conditions. Remember Dr. Samuel Mudd, the doctor who set the broken leg of John Wilkes Booth in the hours after Booth assassinated President Abraham Lincoln in 1865? Dr. Mudd taught the country a lesson despite being imprisoned for treason. Still today, Americans remember the example set by Dr. Mudd and can take his lesson and apply it to the government helping the citizens. The tradition was further continued in the previous administration when President George W. Bush made it a priority of the United States to spread democracy to the Middle East, a predominant goal of his wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The President said that his actions would assist the United States’ national security and secure a democratic voice in Middle Eastern government. In the United States, the TARP bailouts were just an opening volley; the government still has a renewed motivation to use its means to solve the domestic social issues plaguing the country. Ultimately, we as a country will invest in ourselves and work to create a better future for the next generation of American leaders. I believe that the best way for the government to reduce the federal deficit is to solve domestic problems. The government has the resources and the obligation to reform not just health care but also other front-burner issues. Furthermore, as the health care reform bill is worked into its final form, it is important that it include meaningful progressive initiatives like the public option and serious tort reform rather than incrementally slower changes that merely move the proverbial ball a little bit at a time. A trueReform bill instigates real change! Furthermore, once health care reform is passed by the federal government, Congress cannot take a break from legislating. Too many crisis-level issues face the United States and should be addressed while the government is streamlined, dominated by one-party rule. For example, the Democrats need to seriously address climate change legislation, particularly with the Copenhagen Conference right around the corner; public school and other education issues; ways to increase gender equality and the myriad of issues around creating a sustainable culture—to name just a few. These actions will lay the groundwork for a prosperous future. Ultimately, we as a country will invest in ourselves and work to create a better future for the next generation of American leaders. If that is not reason enough for Congress to legislate an ambitious agenda, consider this: the government has the power to solve these social problems and in the spirit of moral responsibility, our leaders have an obligation to fix these important issues.

Scott Matthews ’13 is undeclared. He is from Greenwich, CT. Contact him at samatthews@davidson.edu.

NFL mischaracterizes “El Rushbo”

Rush Limbaugh’s bid to become a minority owner of the NFL’s St. Louis Rams failed this past week as he was dropped from the ownership team led by Dave Checketts. The NFL and the ownership team felt as if Limbaugh did not have the financial resources to support ownership of the Rams nor a true passion for the sport. Oh wait, I’m sorry that is not what happened. Rush’s rejection had nothing to do with his financial wherewithal or passion for football, but rather his outspoken conservative ideologies. In the attempt to explain why cold water was being thrown on the deal, some of the most ridiculous comments came from the NFL Commissioner’s mouth. “Divisive comments are not what the NFL is all about,” Roger Goodell said. “I’ve said many times before, we’re all held to a high standard here.” Exactly what high standard is he referencing and who is following it? The NFL, while not home to players who make “divisive comments,” does have dog killers, drug dealers, and sexual predators. By opposing Rush Limbaugh, the NFL and others cast him as a racist. However, can anyone find an example of Rush’s racist comments? The comments run by CNN, MSNBC, St. Louis Post Dispatch, and various other media were in fact not actually said by Rush. These outlets began with the premise Rush is racist and then looked for evidence of a racist Rush to substantiate. Even after failing to find any racist quotations from Rush’s twenty-plus years of talk radio, they still did not change their original conclusion. But why could the media not find any evidence of a racist Rush? Is it because Rush just hasn’t had the chance to really speak his mind and demonstrate his true colors? No, of course not. Rush Limbaugh, plain and simple, is not a racist, but, in the Obama Age of Post-Racism, cries of racism are the best way to attack someone you cannot intellectually and objectively compete with. The current plan of attack against conservatives is to call them bitter, backwards, Fascists, violent, “mashed up bags of meat with lipstick,” and if all else fails: racist. Rush has two things going against him, which make him a target for all of these phrases (save lipstick). One, he is a conservative, a true conservative. Two, he is wildly successful. Rush Limbaugh invented talk radio. The style, the voice, the network, everything. The man with the golden microphone has millions of listeners each week and gets paid like it. Rush and his listeners know El Rushbo is not racist at all, but the exact opposite. Rush Limbaugh judges people not on the color of their skin but on their actions and words. He calls it like it is. Rush Limbaugh exercises his right to freedom of speech to the utmost. Now, of course, there is a difference between freedom of speech and freedom from consequences. While exercising the right, you must understand that other people are also free to respond. Thus, as a conservative, Rush probably is not welcome on the board of Planned Parenthood or NAMBLA. These organizations have this right. What is not acceptable is saying you support freedom of speech and then rejecting certain speech. For example, St. Louis University recently prohibited David Horowitz from speaking about Islamo-fascism, even after allowing a Norman Finkelstein speech in which he claimed Israel is four times the terror state Hamas is. If the NFL had said Rush is not welcome because he is a conservative that would have been different than accusing him of racism and “divisive comments.” What Roger Goodell really wanted to say is that the NFL does not tolerate vocal conservative points of view.

Bobby DesPain ’11 is a biology major from St. Louis, MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.