THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Shot, from page 16

MK: My experience in that moment—that first second, it seemed like the game was over, the run was over. Fifty-nine to 53, under a minute to go, and you began to rationalize in your head, “That was awesome,” and we just came up a little bit short. And then free throw, in-bounds, three-pointer and all of a sudden it’s 59-57, and there’s a defensive possession. And then the defensive possession is a successful defensive possession—the ball goes out of bounds. And all of a sudden—you hadn’t even thought ahead to that point—it was Davidson’s ball, Davidson was down by two, and mathematically this could happen.

I was twenty-five rows up, behind the Davidson bench, and I could see—I had a view of the play—but I was having trouble taking the play in. I was having trouble seeing. I don’t know if I was physically blinking a lot, or straining, but I felt like I was. It felt like I was trying to take the thing in, and there was too much stuff, in too small a period of time. And then it was over. Really that quick.

So I suppose one of the reasons I thought about what could be a potential project was a desire to fill in the blanks of my personal experience. It was just so quick—part of reporting is slowing stuff down, and asking questions about people who were in that moment—in any story. What were you doing? What were you thinking? You can control time, play with time a little bit. So I wanted to take those 16.8 seconds, or really that 112 seconds, from the time the Kansas shot missed to the time the Davidson shot missed. I wanted to zero in on those two minutes, and sit on them, and see why it seemed to matter so much to so many people. Mostly to Davidson-people, but not only to Davidson-people.

D: Much of the book focuses on the back-story of those involved—the players and coaches—their personal histories, the obstacles they faced, how their experience with basketball evolved. How would you characterize the ethos that connects all the different pieces of this program?

MK: How that program comes to happen is, I think, a function of longevity. It’s not just McKillop—obviously, McKillop has been here 20 years, which is highly unusual at this level—but there’s Matt Matheny, who’s been here for more than a decade-and-a-half, he’s become his wing-man over the years. Jim Fox has been here for eight years. This is the kind of stability that you don’t find at most programs. And the younger coaches—there’s Matt McKillop and a former player [Terrell Ivory] who grew up in the area. So there’s a continuity that allows a program to begin to implement whatever they want to implement—from a basketball Xs and Os standpoint to “Who are we going to be as human beings? What is the philosophy? What is the culture?” Where the culture comes from, I think, it starts with McKillop’s own personal journey—some of the mistakes he’s made along the way that have enabled him to fine-tune who he is and what he believes in, and transfer that to the guys on the team. And not just transfer that to blank slates; transfer that to people he has recruited because they demonstrated themselves to be one of his types of Davidson guys. They recruit a very specific type of person, and that goes back to the continuity.

D: If Davidson is lucky enough to return to the tournament this year, how do you think it will be different? How do you think Davidson-folk will experience this year’s tournament?

MK: I would say, if Davidson does exactly what it did last year, it won’t be what last year was—it can’t be, it shouldn’t be. What made last year so special was that it took you by surprise. The program had gotten to a point where it just couldn’t win the game. The team had gotten close so many times to the point that close was no longer good enough, for them and for their fans. You almost didn’t have time to think about what was going on. Well, now that it happened, you have had time to think about it.

Wofford, from page 16

Curry scored 30 points, Archambault tallied 30, Stephen Rossiter posted nine and defensive specialist Max Paulhus Gosselin added eight. Lovedale recorded seven rebounds and three blocks. Davidson opened the game on a 16-2 run; nearly equaling the 19-0 run it had to...

Men’s Wrestling vs. UNCG
Thur. @ 7:00, Belk Arena
Davidson returns to the mat for its second home conference match of the year following Sunday’s 23-12 victory over VMI. The winner of Thursday’s crucial Southern Conference showdown will move into second place in the conference standings.

Outside the Den
no. 1 Duke at no. 4 Wake Forest
Tonight @ 7:00, ESPN
The Blue Devils and Demon Deacons resume their Tobacco Road Rivalry in an important ACC contest. Duke looks to avoid becoming the fourth straight team to earn the top spot in the polls, and then lose the following week. Wake Forest was ranked no. 1 in last week’s polls but lost at home to Virginia Tech on Wednesday night. The Blue Devils defeated Davidson 79-67 on Jan. 7.Begin last year’s home date with Furman. The Paladins closed the gap to four points briefly before being overwhelmed and driven into the locker room down 51-30 at the break. The 21-point halftime deficit was merely a foreshadowing of the ignominy that would befall the Paladins in the second half. In a display of offensive futility that will go down as one of the most inept displays in the history of Belk Arena, Furman was held to four points and one field goal over the first 18:10 of the second half. Davidson scored 32 points over the same time period to open up a 49-point lead. The Paladins' 6-0 spurt to end the game against Davidson’s reserves was alternately met with laughter and sarcastic applause from a crowd that, for the most part, stayed around until the game’s end. Furman turned the ball over 22 times, which created 25 points for the Cats. Justin Dehm led the Paladins in scoring with 12. The Wildcats never trailed in either of the past week’s games, extending their streak of not having trailed to 237:50, which is equal to almost six complete games. Davidson’s overall record is 16-3 and its Southern Conference record currently stands at 9-0. The Wildcats have a two-game lead on College of Charleston and a four-game lead on several other teams. Davidson’s schedule will take the form of a road trip this week as the Wildcats travel to Chattanooga on Wednesday to play the Mocs at 7 p.m. Saturday will see Davidson travel to Alabama to take on Samford at 3 p.m. The team returns home on Monday for a home match-up with Western Carolina. The ’Cats currently have the nation’s longest home winning streak at 26 games.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2009

D: What do you hope those who are not associated with Davidson will take away from your book?

MK: For starters, one of my questions from the beginning was ‘Who is my audience?’ Is it a by-Davidson, for-Davidson project? Or do I want to attempt to beam-out the Davidson story to the wider world. And I decided early on, for better or worse, that I wanted this to be accessible for a non-basketball, non-Davidson person. I wanted that person to be able to take certain themes out of this story. The hope being that Davidson people were there. My concern, though, was always, that I would short-change Davidson people. I could have written a four-hundred-page book that would have been just a whole lot of stuff for Davidson basketball fans. What I hope non-Davidson people will take away, is the anti-get-rich-quick side of this tale. That sort of flies in the face of the common M.O. in society these days—What can you do for me now? How can I get it now? People jump, people hop, all in an effort to climb that ladder. But you lose something with every next rung you take, maybe there are some things at the last rung that you jettison. I don’t know what the answer is. But people, including myself, find something fascinating in the fact that McKillop came here to go some place else—and who doesn’t. But it didn’t happen, and it kept going that at some point it became his home. There’s something compelling and reassuring about that—that it’s still possible.

D: Could you talk about your experience with Davidson basketball as a student? What was the energy around the program like back then? What were games like? What was the atmosphere like?

With the exception of certain big games, Belk would see only around 1,200 people—red seats were empty. There were some games where I thought it was idiotic that they pulled down the bleachers. And they were good; I mean winning 20 games. What struck me so much last year was that basketball here, now, is a thing to do. People go to the games, and if you don’t go to the games, you’re almost removing yourself from some sort of campus conversation. That wasn’t the case when I was a student. My senior year, 99-00, Wake Forest came here and lost, and people rushed the court. I remember being surprised, it was a very unexpected display of excitement.

If you are curious and adventurous, then pack your bags and say goodbye to the status quo. Study abroad to earn college credit, experience a different culture, learn a foreign language, discover who you are and much more. USAC, your gateway to the world.