THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2009

ELIZABETH HYLAND : Staff Writer

Three dollars can’t even pay for a half quesadilla and a coke at the Union Café. Yet, through Building Tomorrow’s
Buy a Brick Build a School fundraiser, three dollars can affect the lives of many. Building Tomorrow, an international nonprofit
organization, builds schools in the most impoverished parts of Sub-Saharan Africa, offering the gift of education to the children of
those regions.

Paige Bates ‘11, co-president of Davidson’s Building Tomorrow, highlighted the community involvement in Uganda as a distinguishing characteristic of Building
Tomorrow. “It has a better design than other organizations because the community is involved with building the schools,” Bates said.
Due to this participation, everyone has a great sense of pride in the school. After a school is built, the
Ugandan government supplies teachers and funds the school. This support from the Ugandan government shows the confidence that they have
in Building Tomorrow’s work.

Davidson’s chapter of BT has also shown their commitment to this cause for the past several years through fundraisers and
awareness events. Last year, the club hosted a screening of “Invisible Children,” a documentary related to the plight of children
in sub-Saharan Africa. Many of BT’s fundraising efforts, such as their benefit concert that featured student bands, and the GrabLife,
GiveLife competition, have broadened the scope of the group’s influence and engaged a large number of Davidson students.

Davidson’s BT became a finalist in GrabLife GiveLife, a contest that featured many larger universities and required a vast number
of students to vote online. This venture proved extremely successful, as Davidson eclipsed bigger schools and achieved 10,000 votes. Their
prize was $1,000, which went towards the club’s goal of raising $35,000 to finance the construction of the Building Tomorrow
Academy in Uganda. To date, Building Tomorrow has raised about $19,000 of the $35,000. Their spring fundraiser, Buy a Brick
Build a School, has the potential to further their progress toward that goal.

Through this Friday, students may purchase $3 “bricks” in the Union. BT’s goal is to sell 500 bricks, yielding a
profit of $1,500. There is also a competitive element to this fundraiser: all student organizations are battling to have the
greatest member participation. The bricks are displayed on a wall in the Union in the shape of a schoolhouse. This
allows for a visual representation of the donors and illustrates the results of the competition. The student organization with the
most bricks will receive a prize. Building Tomorrow meets every Sunday night at 9 p.m. in the Duke Lounge and
always welcomes new members.

Generals wow Live Thursday crowd

CARA WOODROOF : Staff Writer

The Davidson Generals attracted a large crowd last week at Live Thursdays. As the stage brightened and the Generals appeared
on stage, the crowd cheered. It seemed that everybody was ready to take a break from work to hear great
music. As it turns out, the Generals have a large repertoire of songs, many of which the group has not
performed in years. Choosing songs is “a balancing act,” said Generals President Billy Powers ’10. The group chooses songs based
on individual members’ preferences and group collaboration. An individual member usually gets to solo on a song he particularly likes.
Ultimately, the singers try to develop a good mixture of both upbeat and emotional songs. Thursday’s performance started with “IfThis
Is It,” with Powers as the soloist. The a cappella version that the Generals use was arranged by Lana Sims
’08 and Keith Kellum ’11. Sims and Kellum create many of the arrangements that The Generals use. “If This Is
It” was originally sung by Huey Lewis and The News. Next, the Generals sang Dave Matthews’ “Two Step,” with Matt
Jones ’09 as the soloist. Then, they sang the Counting Crows song “Omaha,” featuring John Kirby ’10. Sam Baroody ’09
went solo in “Where the Streets Have No Name,” originally sung by U2, and Nick Kruter ’11 took center stage
for ’N Sync’s “Gone.” Graham Gockley ’11 was soloist for “Hard Times Come Again No More,” a song written by
Stephen Foster in the 1850s. This song was a touching contrast to the other more modern songs. Kruter returned to
the spotlight as a soloist for “In the Still of the Night,” another older song that was originally performed by
The Five Satins. For their eighth number, the group performed “Seven Bridges Road.” The song was originally sung by the
Eagles. Next, Seyi Ayorinde ’10 was the soloist in “If I Ever Fall In Love Again,” originally sung by Shai.
Probably the most lighthearted song of the night was the tenth, “Something’s Got A Hold On Me,” originally sung by
Etta James. Ben Ferguson ’09 was soloist. Jones returned as soloist for the last song, “Come Sail Away,” originally sung
by Styx. The song’s powerful chorus made for an ideal finale. At the end, The Generals announced the winners of
a raffle for a private Valentine’s Day concert with the group. They selected ten winners, who each can bring two
friends. “Hopefully, we'll provide people with an enjoyable Valentine’s Day,” said Powers. Their latest album, “A General Consensus,” is available
now. The Generals will put on their “Big Show” the Friday of Spring Frolics. Their website, davidsongenerals.com, will be on
the web soon.

Magician to appear

HANNAH JAKOB
Staff Writer

Next Wednesday, Davidson College is in for a real treat. Or shall I say trick? Mike Super, the famous illusionist,
is coming to Duke Family Performance Hall compliments of the C. Shaw and Nancy K. Smith Artist Series. Mike Super’s
Magic & Illusion Production is filled to the brim with amazing tricks, astonishing illusions, and breathtaking magic. Much of his
performance involves the audience, so be ready to participate! Some of his illusions include levitating audience members, creating snow out
of thin air, folding an audience member into a Japanese show box, and making a sheet of paper come to
life in an audience member’s hands. His tricks leave everything to the imagination. He leaves no room for doubt in
his performances and audiences are left mesmerized. It is in a person’s nature to question the impossible and Super creates
more than enough impossibilities to ponder. His show amazes audiences both magically and emotionally. In addition to his array of
mind-blowing tricks, Super also intrigues the audience psychologically, evoking fear and other powerful emotions. Famous for his disclosure of personal
details, he connects with his audience sentimentally. Moreover, Super works hard in each of his performances to reawaken the idea
of childhood innocence that attracts many people to magic. Super hopes that once a person experiences his magic with youthful
enthusiasm, he or she will have a new appreciation and respect for the art of illusion. Mike Super has been
practicing magic for many years and continues to captivate audiences worldwide.

See Magic, page 6

Magician Mike Super comes to Davidson as part of the Artist Series for a show next Wednesday.
