2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

KATHERINE JOHNSON
Staff Writer

The term “revolutionary” might not be one that students would normally use to describe E.H. Little Library, but behind the façade of this stoic, neoclassical Davidson College icon, a technological revolution is taking place. Over the past several months, the library has significantly augmented its electronic database collection in order to address students’ changing needs, weather a rough economy, and adapt to a rapidly digitalizing world.

While the library still has printed academic and news journals available for student use, it now subscribes almost exclusively to electronic resources. According to E.H. Little Library Director Jill Gremmels, “It’s really clear that students want e-resources” in lieu of hard-copy journals. These e-resources enable students to access myriad journals at the click of a mouse instead of having to scour library stacks for printed journals. “Faculty members on sabbatical and students who are studying abroad or on break can benefit from e-journals,” Gremmels said, “because they do not have to be on campus to access journals.”

In addition to enhancing journal accessibility, the library’s use of electronic resources has allowed it to substantially increase its collection of journals. Head of Library Instruction and Collection Development Susanna Boylston shared a few figures, revealing that the library has a collection of 46,750 e-journals. This figure is significantly larger than “the 2,200 print subscriptions we would have had if we had not [switched to e-journals],” Boylston said.

Comparing Davidson’s e-journal collection with those of peer institutions, Gremmels claimed that most other small liberal arts colleges have “anywhere from 18,000 to 30,000” e-journals. “We could have as many as 50,000 e-journals by the end of the year,” Gremmels added, which would make Davidson’s e-resource collection substantially larger than those of similarly sized schools.

One particularly intriguing new e-resource is a collection of Latin American newspapers which “was a gift from a Davidson parent and really filled in a big gap in our collections,” Boylston said. “Students majoring in Political Science, Spanish, and History could really benefit from such a collection.”

A large impetus behind the growth of e-resources has been the economy: in these troubled economic times, publishers of academic journals prefer publishing electronically. As Gremmels sums it up, “publishers save money by not publishing on paper.”

E-resources could also contribute to environmental sustainability efforts, as publishing electronically clearly saves paper. Gremmels advised that students should be mindful of how much they are printing, as that could limit the impact that e-resources have on improving environmental sustainability.

Both Boylston and Gremmels stress that the library has tried to digitalize its resources.

---

2/21/09 21:51
News

Library reconsiders electronic resource holdings

---

While conducting a zone check, an officer found the basement door of WDAV Radio Station unlocked. The reporting officer observed many expensive items left unsecured in the basement, including a Honda generator and miscellaneous electronics. The officer searched and secured the basement; nothing appeared to be missing or damaged, and there were no signs of forced entry.

2/20/09 16:39
Other

Baseball Field

An officer was dispatched to the Baseball Field, 200 Martin Ct. Dr. Upon arrival, the officer observed a group of about 25 students with six cases of beer. The reporting officer told the students to remove the alcohol and clean up the cans. Several students confronted this officer and advised that they had been allowed to drink at baseball games for the last ten years and asked for Chief Walker's personal cell phone number. The reporting officer stated he would not give out personal information on any Campus Police officer. They then stated they wanted to speak with Chief Walker, so the reporting officer contacted the chief, advised him of the situation, and let the students talk to him.

2/20/09 17:26
Suspicious Person

An officer was contacted on the officer cell phone by a Davidson College employee. He advised that his kids were in his backyard with the neighbor’s kids jumping on a trampoline when a man jumped over the fence, located in the Upper Satellite parking lot, onto his property and then back again. The kids stated the man looked at them from a distance, started to walk towards them, and then turned and jumped back over the fence. They described the man as a middle-aged white male, non-student, with a mustache, dressed in all black.

2/20/09 23:00
Hit and Run

2nd Tomlinson

An officer contacted the Sgt in reference to being struck by a vehicle. The officer stated that three unknown subjects carrying a funnel tried to enter the Connor House Party. The officer stated that when he confronted them, the subjects took off running to the 2nd Tomlinson Lot and he followed them. He stated that they got into a Honda Accord. The officer stated that he was standing in the parking lot when the vehicle approached. He stated that he moved to the side and the driver’s side mirror struck his duty belt and his hand that had the funnel in it hit the windshield. The officer had a BOLO sent out to the surrounding agencies in reference to the vehicle.

2/24/09 04:50
Suspicious Persons

Soccer Field

The officer was contacted on the officer cell phone in reference to two subjects sitting in a vehicle parked near the cemetery. The reporting officers observed two unoccupied vehicles parked at the practice soccer field. TheOfficers located the keys to both vehicles laying on each. The officers checked the area and observed 10-15 subjects running into the back woods of the field. The officers spoke with one subject who advised that he and some others were playing a game but would not give specifics.

Collections in a prudent fashion. “We can only switch [from in-print format to electronic format] if it’s safe for archival reasons,” Gremmels said, stressing that they’ll only switch to a digital format of a particular journal “if we’re confident we have the backup.” Additionally, library staff has tried hard to ensure that no academic departments have been adversely affected by the increasing use of digital journals. For example, according to Gremmels, the library still uses hard-copy art journals, as they have higher quality photos than electronic art journals. Similarly, the library still subscribes to in-print literary journals, as they are “easier to read by hand.”

In addition to expanding and diversifying e-subscriptions, the library is hoping to implement further developments that students could benefit from. According to Gremmels, an Anthropology class is currently conducting a focus group on how students use the library and how they see it growing in the future. Students might also remember filling out a survey at the end of last year asking them about potential library expansions and refurbishments. The results of these surveys were seriously assessed, and library staff even found an architect to do a feasibility study in order to determine how the library could expand in the coming years. Unfortunately, “these sorts of projects are dead in the water until the economy revives,” Gremmels said. “We’re hoping we can use this time to listen more to our users.”

New Locavore Initiative
ALEX KOWALESKI
Staff Writer

The majority of produce Americans consume every year is picked long before it is fully ripe. It is then shipped long distances, requiring great quantities of fossil fuels. Kristina Johnson '10 is seeking to remedy this problem by promoting Know Your Farms, an arrangement where students and faculty invest in local agriculture in exchange for a share of the crop.

A recent stay in India inspired Johnson to promote this initiative. She spent her time at a Buddhist monastery surrounded by farms, where nearly all food came from “less than 200 yards away,” and markets were festooned with “beautiful eggplants and cauliflowers.” When Johnson returned to the United States in December, she realized how our food pales in comparison. Johnson’s first meal in the U.S., at a Tucson sushi restaurant, caused her to realize that she had no idea where the ingredients originated, and that half of the meal was tasteless. This, she claims, is typical of American food.

Seeking to improve Davidson students’ diets and inspired by her experience with local consumption abroad, Johnson contacted Christy Shy '96. Shy, whose diet is comprised almost entirely of food grown within 30 miles of Davidson, started Know Your Farms for northern Mecklenburg County. Johnson met with Shy to adapt Know Your Farms for Davidson students and faculty. In the plan they developed, Davidson students and faculty can purchase a box of food that comes either once a week or every two weeks, depending on the plan. The boxes, according to Johnson, include everything necessary to prepare a four-serving meal, including recipes. Johnson states examples of foodstuffs will include “local eggs...honey...cheese, greens, pork, chicken, and ostrich.” She adds that “it all depends on what is available” at any given time.

The price of the plan is four boxes for $220 or eight boxes for $384. However, Johnson stresses that education about local agriculture is a critical part of the program. Therefore, purchasers who volunteer four hours at a local farm can purchase the four-box plan for $180 or the eight-box plan for $344. Because each meal can serve four people, says Johnson, and the cost can be split among friends, the meals are less expensive than eating at a local restaurant. Furthermore, she adds that this is the “purest quality food, with no chemicals or antibiotics.”

Johnson also lauds the positive effect that the Know Your Farms initiative will have on local farmers. “Small farmers,” she states, “have a hard time keeping land because of developers.” Developers usually pave the land they’ve acquired, indirectly forcing Americans to rely on large agribusinesses. Johnson cited the talk by Paul Roberts on his book “The End of Food,” and argued that because of America’s increasingly centralized agriculture, a single health scare, such as the recent one involving peanut butter, can imperil a food’s availability in the whole country. “We need new models which are more regionally based,” Johnson said.

Whether investing in Know Your Farms for gastronomical, economic, or sustainability reasons, Johnson’s efforts promise to supply Davidson students and faculty with freshly-grown, local food, while helping them gain an appreciation for the local farmers who make their living off the land. Individuals interested in buying a local food share are advised to contact Kristina Johnson by e-mail and to sign up by Feb. 28. The boxes will be delivered to Duke dormitory and the senior apartments every Wednesday in March and April.