CU DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Cat. IV ELECTIONS
List of independent senator candidates.
see NEWS, page 3

Eco-House LIVING
A Davidsonian writer speaks with Eco-House participants about their residential experience.
see ARTS, page 5

WAYLEN ROCHE AND FRIENDS
Live Thursdays this week promises original tunes influenced by heavy rock and the blues.
see ARTS, page 6

WILDCATS FALL TO UIC FLAMES
Men’s tennis dropped a 4-3 decision at home to Illinois-Chicago after losing 5-8 at Furman.
see SPORTS, page 11

WEDNESDAY, March 25, 2009

Theatre, Music collaborate in ‘Company’
ELIZABETH HYLAND
Staff Writer

This spring, the Davidson Theatre and Music Departments jointly present Davidson’s biennial musical, “Company.” “Company” is a Tony Award-winning play,
written by Stephen Sondheim. Directed by Ann Marie Costa, this production features a full orchestra of student musicians conducted by
Dr. Bill Lawing. Jaquelyn Culpepper leads the musical direction.

“Company” is a grand-scale collaboration between departments, the first in 20 years, and is also the first to take place
in the Duke Family Performance Hall. A full orchestra provides a rich, lush sound, allowing for the singers to show
the nuances in Sondheim’s work. Set in modern New York City, “Company” follows the love life of the main character,
Bobby, and his interactions with his friends and lovers. Costa feels that “Company” is “well suited to both Davidson students
and community members due to its exploration of relationships, family, and marriage.” She continued by saying that they had initially
looked at over fifty shows before deciding upon “Company.”

The play appealed to them for a multitude of reasons including the fact that it would be the first Sondheim
production performed at Davidson. Costa explained that with this play, “Sondheim gives you an acting piece; we had in mind
that we’d like to do something that showcased the talent of the cast.” The strength of the cast’s acting and
singing prowess is further highlighted.

JESSE JOHNSON
Staff Writer

“Every student shall be honor bound to refrain from stealing.” Though most Davidson students remember reading these words at the
start of freshman year, some students may be wondering how many people really abide by Davidson’s esteemed Honor Code. About
two weeks ago, Christina Brown '11 reported her car stolen from the satellite parking lot. “When I went back to
use it, my car was missing. After calling the towing company and finding out that my car hadn’t been towed,
I called the cops to report my stolen car,” Brown stated. “I don’t lend my car to anyone, and I
had my keys on my person all week. What makes things worse is that I have no way to tell
when it was stolen so it could have already been sold for parts by the time I found it.”

Alea Skwara ’09, Ryan Chiles '12, and Josh Tobin '10 on the set of “Company” during a rehearsal on Saturday.

To celebrate Holi, the Hindu Festival of Colors, students tie-dyed each other on Patterson Court.was gone.” The Davidson campus has
seen several other cases of theft in the past few weeks, though many students have expressed disbelief that Davidson students
might be the offenders. Officer Ronnie Hersey reminds students that even if an act is done by a friend from
another school, “students are responsible for guests’ actions.” Campus Police stated that over the course of the past year, students
have reported over $7,000 in property damage resulting from ambiguous and possibly criminal behavior. This figure includes vandalism of two
vehicles and the theft of property.

Thefts leave campus uneasy

VOLUME 100, NUMBER 20

Tuition rises despite budget cuts
ALEX KOWALESKI
Staff Writer

The total yearly cost of a Davidson education will increase from $42,950 to $45,030, or 4.8 percent for the 2009-2010
school year. This increase is composed of a $1,645 tuition jump, and an additional $435 in combined charges for a
double room and full meal plan. According to President Tom Ross, the economic recession and a sharp decrease in the
value of Davidson’s endowment necessitated this increase in tuition, despite efforts to cut expenses.

Davidson’s revenue comes from three sources: tuition, donations, and a payout from the endowment equal to five percent of its
five-year rolling average. Donations and auxiliary revenue make up 18 percent of the college’s revenue, with distribution from the endowment
covering 24 percent. Tuition pays for the remaining 58 percent of expenses. However, between June 30 and Dec. 31 of
2008, the value of Davidson’s endowment fell by 28 percent. The economic situation may also lead to a decrease in
donations. These factors necessitated the increase in tuition.

Due to the adverse economic conditions, Davidson is taking significant steps to reduce expenses and thereby minimize the increase in
tuition. The 2009 fiscal year budget has been cut by 2.5 percent, and the 2010 budget will include a three
percent reduction. Combined with a freeze on hiring, salaries, and wages at current levels, these actions have allowed the school
to minimize expenditures.

Despite these efforts, President Ross wrote in his Feb. 2009 letter to parents regarding tuition that “the college is facing
escalating costs that are beyond our control in energy, health care, and information technology.” In total, however, the college has
been successful in managing costs, and the 4.8 percent increase in tuition is the lowest percentage in six years. According
to President Ross, spending and revenue decisions always put students first. “The priority is to not allow the economic situation
to affect the student experience,” he said.

The Davidson campus has seen several other cases of theft in the past few weeks, though many students have expressed
disbelief that highlighted by its size; the cast is only 14 actors. In “Company,” unlike larger productions with ensembles of
dancers and choruses, “all 14 people have really strong solo roles, and it’s a lot more demanding because they have
to sing, dance, and act,” Costa said. The play does not only demand a lot of work from the actors
but also from the orchestra. Lawing

See Company, page 6

See Theft, page 2
