THE DAVIDSONIAN News WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29, 2009

Building Tomorrow founder lectures on development, education

Kesey Littleey, News Editor

It started with a question. “How many of you passed first grade?” All hands went up. “The reason I asked you that question is because...we’re dealing with issues and trends that are really, really troubling.”

Monday night in the 900 Room, Building Tomorrow founder and executive director George Srour lectured on international development and his work with educational infrastructure through Building Tomorrow, a non-profit organization. Srour then explained that if the 25-person audience were a typical class of students in Uganda, only the first row, six people or 20 percent, would continue from first to second grade. He continued with another statistic: there are 41 million children in Sub-Saharan Africa with no access to education. For lucky girls that complete fifth grade in Uganda, the likelihood of their contracting HIV/AIDS is lowered by 50 percent. In a region where 25 million people are infected with HIV/AIDS, Srour said, that’s a big deal.

Srour then asked another question. “How many of you are literate?” All the hands went up again. “In Uganda,” Srour said, “you can reasonably expect only the right side of the room (56-57 percent) to be literate. Education really holds a lot of keys.” Because of this low literacy rate, the United Nations has set increasing access to education as one of the Millennium Development Goals to be completed by 2015.

During his senior year at William and Mary, Srour founded Building Tomorrow as a social profit organization that aimed to build schools in Sub-Saharan Africa, particularly Uganda. Upon graduation in 2005 with a degree in government and international relations, Srour was awarded the James Monroe Prize for Civic Leadership as well as the William E. Simon Fellowship for Noble Purpose.

Though the goal of Building Tomorrow is to raise funds to build schools, Srour insisted, “Education is not just about filling classrooms.” In fact, each Building Tomorrow school, though funded by Srour’s organization, is built entirely by the Ugandan community. Over 25,000 hours of labor go into the construction of each school. In fact, the community is so involved in the building of each school that everyone from three-year-olds carrying bricks to an 83-year-old woman mixing concrete are seen at the construction site. Srour emphasized that simply building a school is not enough to help a community, but rather, listening to the distinct needs of the community ensures a successful project. “Oftentimes, aid organizations come and build great schools and [they] are handed over without figuring out exactly what the community needs,” Srour said. “They’re useless because there’s no interaction.”

Once the school is funded and built, the Ugandan government funds all teachers’ salaries. Because these ongoing costs are covered by the government, however, the curriculum is somewhat biased. Srour explained that the first three years children are in school, they must take an exam, similar to our standardized tests. These exams are offered only in English; however, the Ugandan government mandates all students must be taught in their native tongue. “Any guess how many languages are spoken in Uganda?” asked Srour. Guesses ranged from 15 to 30, but the actual figure is 54 spoken, seven official. Srour asked the audience if that made sense to them; for the first time, no hands were raised.

Other obstacles that Building Tomorrow faces include getting parents to allow their children to actually come to class. Because students are relied upon so heavily at home to farm or raise their siblings, Srour explained, a surprising obstacle has been parents. To solve this dilemma, Building Tomorrow schools now offer agricultural theory classes as well as vocational training, in order to better prepare students for success both at home and at further levels in school.

“Why Uganda?” an audience member asked. Aren’t there similar education and literacy problems in the United States? “Uganda is the world’s youngest country,” Srour said. “One-half of the population is under 15, [meaning] all of us...In this room are over the median age in Uganda. It’s also a unique country in the sense that it’s one of the few East African countries that’s adopted universal primary education. The funding is there to pay for teachers, but not infrastructure. Each Building Tomorrow school serves 325 students in grades one through seven. In the past, Building Tomorrow has worked with universities with architecture schools whose students actually create the designs for the Ugandan schools. Recently, UVA architecture students planned a Building Tomorrow school in Gita, which is currently under construction, Srour explained. “Philanthropy is more than you having a lot of money and giving it to a cause,” Srour said. The actual buildings themselves are vast improvements from the typical Ugandan school. Compared to mud walls that melt when it rains and straw-thatched roofs that attract snakes, the Building Tomorrow schools have the option for solar-energy harnessing and rainwater collection, though the funds to implement such initiatives have not been raised. In addition, Building Tomorrow strives for environmental sustainability, using local materials to cut down on transportation costs. College chapters of Building Tomorrow exist nationwide, 18 in total. Davidson’s chapter has existed for three years, which Srour said was one of the longest-running chapters. It meets every Sunday night at 9 in Duke International Lounge.

OLAS to celebrate Cinco de Mayo

Expect a reggaeton party, piñatas, and jalapeños

Kelsey Little
News Editor

The coming of spring means many things: sunshine, blooming flowers, and... Cinco de Mayo. “Cinco de Mayo is a very popular Mexican-American celebration,” Organization of Latin American Students (OLAS) President Claudia Ramirez said. “It commemorates Mexico’s defeat of the French Army at the Battle of Puebla in 1862.” Ramirez said that this battle is important because the French army was larger and better equipped than the Mexican army, as well as because the Battle of Puebla was the last time Mexico was invaded by a country from another continent. “Interestingly, Cinco de Mayo isn’t a national holiday in Mexico, but it is celebrated in Puebla,” Ramirez said. “This date is celebrated in the United States and other countries as a celebration of Mexican American heritage and pride.” To celebrate Cinco de Mayo, as well as to promote “cultural and historical awareness about various Latin American countries,” OLAS has organized a series of celebration activities for this weekend. Saturday night, OLAS is co-hosting a Reggaeton Party at the BSC from 11 a.m.-3 p.m. The festivities will continue Sunday from 1-4 p.m. in the Union Atrium, including a jalapeño eating contest, the winner of which will be given a gift card. “Considering jalapeños aren’t very filling, OLAS will also be providing Latin American food from El Paraiso, a Mexican/Salvadorian restaurant,” Ramirez said. In addition to a piñata, games like musical chairs and a live mariachi band, Ramirez said that students would have the opportunity to see Mexican folkloric dancing. “OLAS is an all-inclusive organization committed to promoting awareness of the uniqueness of Hispanic cultures by providing a wide range of opportunities...for all Davidson students, Hispanic or non-Hispanic,” Ramirez said. “It is a fun-filled weekend that can also serve as a great de-stressor considering exams are just around the corner.”

Suspicious Person

Officer received a call on the officer cell phone from an unknown Davidson female student in reference to a male suspect taking pictures of her and her friend (who was in a bathing suit) as they were walking on Patterson Ct Cir near the Turner House. Officer located a male suspect sitting in a white Mercury displaying a North Carolina tag. The vehicle was backed into a parking space at the Turner House. Officer approached the vehicle and asked the suspect for identification and what he was doing on the college campus. He told the officer that he came to campus while on break from work. Officer then asked if he had a camera in the vehicle and he stated that he did. Officer requested to look at the camera. Officer found several pictures of girls obviously on campus and pictures were taken without their awareness. Pictures were usually of girls in bathing suits, shorts, or bending over. Also, there were pictures of women in downtown Davidson and at shopping areas. All were taken without notice. Officer issued a trespass warning and told him that he would be arrested for second-degree trespass if he were found on college property in the future.

Noise Complaint

Officer went to Flowe to address a loud music issue. A stereo speaker placed outside the apartment was causing the problem. Officer talked with students in the area. One subject was extremely intoxicated and confrontational towards the officer, daring him to take action. The roommate and friend repeatedly told him to keep his mouth shut. The roommate and friend assured the officer the music would be kept to a minimum.