14 Tue

DAVIDSONIAN

CHRIS YOUNG
Staff Writer

For those of us that define our yearly timelines by which sport we are watching on television, the end of January means several things. First of all, college basketball season is in full swing and the national picture is beginning to take form. Secondly, the Super Bowl matchup is set, and most of the media hype is dedicated toward pressing that game, however intriguing, upon us.

In my four years at Davidson, though, I have adopted a new sporting tradition: the Australian Open. I’ve always followed tennis casually. In my formative years, I noticed Pete Sampras and Andre Agassi dominating the men’s side. I watched the changing of the guard from Steffi Graf to Martina Hingis to the Williams sisters on the women’s tour. I would generally watch the Wimbledon final and maybe catch another few major matches each year. Here at Davidson, though, where distractions are needed, I have closely followed the Australian Open each year. While the matchups are always compelling and great champions such as Roger Federer and Novak Djokovic have been crowned over the past few years, the Australian Open performs a greater task. After months of hibernation, tennis is once again thrust into the consciousness of the sports world.

While Eastern European dominance on the women’s side and the growing number of competitive Americans in the men’s draw are certainly intriguing storylines, the most interesting point of discussion in the tennis world boils down to a rivalry between two men: Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal. Tennis fans generally hold allegiance to one of those two men (which is all well and good because only Djokovic’s 2008 Australian Open title has broken their stranglehold on the Grand Slam tournaments in the last five years). There is very little middle ground. Because they often meet in Championship Finals, Nadal and Federer have become the faces of men’s tennis. Their influence does not look likely to fade soon, and the debate has become fierce: who is the best player in the world?

Let’s start with Federer, the 27-year-old smooth-hitting Swiss that has won more Grand Slam titles than anyone in history other than Sampras (Federer is only one behind and could tie Sampras this week). He dominated the sport for years, at one point reaching 10 consecutive Grand Slam finals. His 13 championships speak for themselves, as they set a standard that Nadal can only hope to reach. Federer is silky smooth on the court and plays with deceptive power. His shot-making wizardry makes him a joy to watch, and almost invincible on hard court or a grass surface. In terms of sheer tennis skill, Federer is unmatched. He is extremely fit, and often outlasts opponents to win matches that he would not otherwise win. Even last year, his worst in ages, Federer won the U.S. Open and reached the finals at the French Open and Wimbledon.

In spite of his accomplishments, Federer lost his top ranking to 22-year-old Spaniard Rafael Nadal. Nadal acts as the perfect counterpart to Federer’s on-court genius and creativity. He plays with unparalleled power and grit, out-muscling his opponents with his massive top-spin forehand, and his left-handed play makes him even more dangerous. Nadal does not often bother with the creativity or daringness of Federer, but rather prefers to pound the ball at opponents using his superior strength and athleticism. He is younger than Federer, and his physical stature makes him almost impossible to outlast in a long match (though Federer has often managed to do so). His game perfectly suited to the clay court, Nadal has won the last four French Opens, defeating Federer in the final the past three years. Last year, he even managed to end Federer’s dominance on Wimbledon’s grass, and supplanted him as the top-ranked player in the world. In fact, Nadal holds the record for most consecutive victories on clay, and sports a 22-1 record in tournament finals played on clay.

So, who is actually the top player in the world? The answer is certainly debatable, and they will each go down as one of the greatest players of all time. Federer’s game is certainly more pleasing to watch to a casual tennis fan like myself. I enjoy seeing the spinning drop-shots and amazing volleys. When he is done, Federer may have to be considered the greatest to ever play the game. The smart money this week, should they meet in the finals, would probably be on Nadal. Nadal is much younger and just entering his prime, and seems to be in fine form. I tend to agree with the rankings: Nadal is the man to beat. But it’s close. For my money, though, I’d take watching Federer’s more aesthetically pleasing game. The real answer: pick one. You can’t go wrong!

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2009

’Cats open season in Boston

TAN QUACH
Staff Writer

The Davidson men’s tennis team began their spring 2009 season with a bang, beating Boston University 7-0 on Friday at Brown University’s campus in Providence, R.I. The match headlined the team’s weekend trip to the northeast to take on non-conference foes Brown University, Boston University, and Boston College. The ’Cats finished 1-2 on the weekend trip, losing to Brown University 7-0 on Saturday and to Boston College 6-1 on Sunday. Despite dropping two of three on the weekend, the men’s tennis team gained valuable experience against quality teams this weekend and remain positive about the spring season. “We demonstrated that we can compete with talented teams from larger conferences this weekend,”Scott Myers ’09 said, “We just need to work on winning the big points that can decide matches.” The Wildcats delivered the ultimate team performance against Boston University, winning all six singles matches and two of three doubles matches to earn a 7-0 victory. Walker Lyons ’11, Scott Myers ’09, Calum Gee ’12, and Eric Noble ’10 all delivered multi-win performances in singles and doubles. Gee and Noble captured a No. 2 doubles victory with an 8-3 win while Lyons and Myers won their No. 1 doubles match 9-7 over Boston University’s Chudacoff and Weinstein. Lyons beat Chudacoff again in his No. 1 singles match 6-3, 6-3. The team remained in Providence to face Brown University on Saturday. Playing on their home courts, Brown avenged Davidson’s 6-1 win last year and beat the Wildcats 7-0. Despite being swept in all singles and doubles matches, the ’Cats showed promise. After losing his first set at No. 4 singles, Gee nearly forced a third set, losing in a second set tie-breaker 7-6. Noble and Myers also came close to forcing a third set, both losing 7-5 in their respective No. 2 and No. 4 singles matches. 

On Sunday, the Wildcats trekked further northeast to face Boston College in Chestnut Hill, Mass. The talented Boston College team beat the Wildcats 6-1 to round out the weekend. Myers earned the Wildcats their lone point with a 7-6, 6-3 win at No. 3 singles. Myers picked up where he left off as an All-SoCon performer last year and earned his second multi-win match of the season, also winning his No. 2 doubles match playing with Lyons 8-6. While Myers was the lone singles winner, the team played Boston College close; Lyons and Carter Braxton ’11 both lost in three sets at the No. 1 and No. 6 singles positions. “The final score does not illustrate how competitive the match was,” Myers said, “Our singles matches were all very close.” The weekend trip also saw a few first-time singles winners. In the match against Boston University, Gee won his first collegiate singles match, a 6-3, 6-0 win at the No. 4 spot. Braxton also earned his first official collegiate singles win against Boston University with a 6-3, 6-1 win at No. 6. The development of these young singles players will be important for a successful season. The team continues their spring season when they host No. 69 Radford this Sunday, Feb. 1 at 1 p.m. They will look to go 2-2 on the year against the talented Radford squad.

Sieracki places third at UNC Classic
ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

Both the men’s and women’s track and field teams started their seasons last weekend. The women traveled to the Appalachian State University Invite on Friday. The ’Cats set two new school records at App. State. Kim Colley ’09 had an especially strong meet, running the 55-meter dash in record time, 7.40, securing a 16th-place finish. Colley also ran the 200 meters, also finishing 16th with a time of 26.49 seconds. Making her college debut, Danielle Wright ’12 also ran tough. While setting a new school record, Wright finished 14th in the 400 meters with a time of 59.62 seconds. On the field, Kennesia Martin ’09 placed seventh in the triple jump, measuring 36 feet and 5 3/4 inches. The momentum from the women’s strong start also carried over to the men’s team as they traveled to Chapel Hill, N.C. on Saturday. The men’s track and field team had five top 10 finishes at the season-opening UNC Classic. Leading the Wildcats was Thad Sieracki ’09 with his third-place finish in the mile, running the event in 4:21.95. His teammate, Peter Bruton ’10 also ran the mile, receiving 12th place with a time of 4:28.71. Bruton also ran the 3000 meters, finishing in a personal best time of 9:04.48. In the longer event, the 5000 meters, three Wildcats made strong finishes. Leading the Wildcats was Charlie Schmitt ’11 who got fifth place with a time of 15:30.06. Behind Schmitt were Blake Evitt ’10, 11th, with a time of 15:57.15. Tan Tupper ’12 also had a strong race, finishing 16th with a time of 16:14.38. On the field for the Wildcats was Will Funderburg ’09 in the shot-put event. Funderburg, with his throw of 13.65 meters, was able to get an 8th-place finish for the team. The Wildcats’ next meet of the season is scheduled for Jan. 30-31 as the team will travel to East Tennessee State University for the Niswonger Invite.

Men’s Basketball
(16-3, 9-0)
Results: 1/21 vs. Furman W 83-43
1/24 vs. Wofford W 79-56
1/26 @ Western Carolina L 66-72
Next Up: 1/29 vs. UNCG
1/31 @ Samford
2/2 vs. Western Carolina
Notes: In their victory over Furman, the Wildcats’ defense allowed its fewest points since giving up 42 points in a win over Sewanee in 2004.

Swimming/Diving
Men (2-6, 2-0)
Women (4-6, 4-0)
Results: 1/24 vs. Gardner-Webb
Men W 168-111
Women W 162-126
Next Up: 1/28 vs. VMI
Notes: Both the men’s and women’s swim teams remained undefeated in conference meets with the sweep of Gardner-Webb on Senior Day.

Indoor Track
Results: 1/24 @ UNC Classic
Next Up: 1/30-1/31 Niswonger Invitational @ Johnson City, TN
Notes: Peter Bruton ’10 ran a personal-best mark of 9:04.48 in the 3000 meters for an 8th place finish.

Women’s Basketball
(8-13, 7-5)
Results: 1/24 vs. Appalachian State L 57-77
Next Up: 1/28 @ Chattanooga
1/31 @ Wofford
2/3 vs. Appalachian State
Notes: After a 7-0 conference start, the ’Cats look to end their five-game SoCon losing streak Saturday at Wofford.

Wrestling
(4-8, 1-1)
Results: 1/25 vs. VMI W 73-12
Next Up: 1/28 vs. VMI
Notes: The Wildcats recorded their first-ever win over rival VMI to earn their first Southern Conference victory of the season.