6 THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009

Fishy, from page 5)

"Trip to China fuels a musical journey of species together. Also, some uncommon methods employed by farmers to protect their
crops are endangering sea animals. Farmers protect their fish from seals, sea lions, and birds with firecrackers and loud underwater
speakers. These strategies can cause disorientation, pain, or hearing loss for the animals. Sometimes, these “predators” are even shot. Using
tight nets to prevent access to ponds, tanks, and net cages could easily eliminate the need for these aggressive actions.

Increasingly, there has been a desire to rely more on U.S. produced fish. The U.S. Commerce Department recently called to
multiply the $1 billion domestic aquaculture industry fivefold by 2025. Additionally, several members of Congress, working with the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration, introduced legislation to start farming fish in deep-sea, federally owned waters, which are generally located 200 miles
off-shore. This movement would require strict environmental standards. Right now, Congress believes the NOAA’s legislation does not adequately protect the
environment. Fish farming should become an important issue in the coming years, as farmers scramble to satisfy the worldwide demand
for seafood.

Organ series continues

JANE CAIN Guest Writer
CAREY LEIGH EVANS Staff Writer

After studying Chinese at Davidson for three years, Sam Burns ’10 studied abroad in Beijing last summer. There, he began
lessons on the erhu, a traditional Chinese instrument originating from the northwestern area of China. This region is inhabited by
the non-Han peoples. The word erhu, which means “two beard,” is nicknamed the “barbarian instrument” because of the people with
whom it originated; two refers to the two strings on the instrument.

The erhu is a traditional Chinese instrument that is similar to the violin. It is played with a bow that
goes between the two strings, which are usually tuned to A and D. The two bowing techniques are la gong
and tui gong, similar to the “down bow” and “up bow” techniques of western string instruments. Both sides of the
bow hair are used to play the erhu. The inside string is played when the bow is pushed away and
the outside when the musician draws the bow in. The erhu can also be plucked, which creates a more muted
tone, sometimes necessary in contemporary pieces.

Burns picked up the erhu when his study abroad program offered free lessons that occurred once a week for two
hours. The class had about ten students, and they began with pieces like “Twinkle Twinkle Little Star” and “Edelweiss.” After
a few classes, Burns and classmates began playing more traditional Chinese songs. Burns says that like the violin, the technique
is hard to master, and the instrument can often sound screechy and noisy during the early learning stages.

The erhu is Burns’ second instrument. He has played the banjo for three years and was originally instructed by his
father.

Staff Writer: For a sweeter quesadilla, use brie cheese.- and dried cranberries or sliced pears self-taught during college. He now
plays the banjo recreationally. Since returning to the US, Burns also occasionally plays the erhu in his apartment. But he
notes that the erhu produces quite a loud sound and, because he is still learning how to produce a consistent,
musical tone, it can be quite an annoyance to his roommates. Burns hopes to learn to play more traditional songs,
though he has also tried to play newer material. Because of the numerous ways that the erhu can be played,
musicians are not confined to Chinese songs. Burns also said the erhu is a popular street instrument, though modern Chinese
children rarely learn to play it today.

Burns’ career aspiration is “to kick it somewhere.” He is a philosophy major who hopes to possibly return to China,
specifically to Xinjiang Uighur, the erhu’s place of origination. If this goal is realized, Burns says he will learn to
play traditional Chinese songs on the erhu — and to play them well.

In addition to blockbuster composers—from Bach and Buxtehude to Vierne and Widor—Katie Ann McCarty has interspersed compatible poetry with her
chosen works, kicking it up a notch for the fourth year of Organ at Davidson’s innovative series. Associate Director of
Music and an organist at Davidson United Methodist Church, Katie Ann McCarty completed undergraduate work at Oberlin College and Conservatory
and received her Master of Music and doctorate from Arizona State University. She studied at the Conservatoire National de Région
in Bordeaux, France. With a specialty in classical and romantic French organ music, Ms. McCarty has performed extensively as a
soloist both nationally and abroad. She enjoys accompanying choirs, soloists, and instrumental ensembles. Her talent is sure to shine on
DCPC’s refurbished Wicks organ. A reception arranged by Friends of the Organ follows each Organ at Davidson program. The shows
are free, though donations will be gratefully accepted to help continue and further enhance Organ at Davidson offerings. The concert
on Tuesday, November 10 starts at 7:30 p.m. in DCPC’s sanctuary. See www.dcpc.org or call 704-892-5641 for more details.

Wed. 11/4
Thur. 11/5
Fri. 11/6
Sat. 11/7
Sun. 11/8
Mon. 11/9
Tue. 11/10

Brite Divinity Information Session
Davidson Law School Fair
Pirates of Penzance
Tyler Tallman Hall
Project Life Bone Marrow Typing Drive
Union Atrium
Dance Ensemble
Kendrick K. Kelly Lecture in Historical Studies
Math Coffee: “Get into the Zome” Activity
The Mission of Duke Healthcare
Dr. James Goodman
Dance Ensemble
Jessie Parker Concert
A Chopin Soiree
Tyler Tallman Hall

7:30 p.m.
2:30 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
11 a.m.
6:45 p.m.
8 p.m.
11 a.m.
8 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
9:30 p.m.
7:30 p.m.
