Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

photo by Aavaggeno

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, March 25, 2009

Stephen Curry ’10 scored 26 points Monday night but it was not enough to help the ’Cats advance past St.
Mary’s (CA) in the second round of the NIT. St. Mary’s plays San Diego St. tonight.

Mills, Gaels end Davidson’s NIT dreams in California

Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

Davidson’s basketball season came to an abrupt end Monday night, as Patrick Mills’ first career double-double was more than sufficient
to cancel out Stephen Curry’s 26 points and give Saint Mary’s (CA) an 80-68 victory in the second round of
the NIT. Mills, the Gaels’ sophomore guard who doubles as the starting point guard for the Australian national team, recorded
23 points and ten assists to offset his 1-10 performance from beyond the arc. Omar Samhan added 18 points and
nine rebounds, while Diamon Simpson and Wayne Hunter chipped in 12 points each to lead the Gaels to victory.

Will Archambault ’10 contributed ten points in support of Curry, while Andrew Lovedale ’09 tallied nine points and ten rebounds
in his final game as a Wildcat. Curry stuffed the stat sheet with nine rebounds and five assists, but also
committed six turnovers to Mills’ one.

The game was highly competitive in the first half. Davidson streaked out to an 11-6 lead behind triples from Curry,
Archambault, and Steve Rossiter ’09. Rossiter’s triple to begin the game was his first of the season. St. Mary’s rallied
to claim a 21-14 lead before the Wildcats fought back to tie the game at 28. The Gaels finished the
half strong to claim a 36-33 edge at the intermission.

Curry canned a three to begin the second half to tie the contest, only to be matched by Mills’ lay-up
at the other end. Rossiter rebounded a Curry miss and scored to give Davidson its final tie of the game
at 38-all. Mickey McConnell’s triple began a 9-2 run that left the Gaels with a 47-40 lead with 16 minutes
to play. A Curry 3 closed Davidson to within 49-47, but another 9-2 run by St. Mary’s increased the deficit
to 58-49 with just under 12 minutes to play. The Wildcats hung tough after the run, but were unable to
close within two possessions for the remainder of the game.

The Wildcats were able to stay close but ultimately fell short. See NIT, page 11.

Lacrosse looks to build off tough match-ups

JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

Entering the middle stretch of the season, the women’s lacrosse team lost decisions last week against Marist and Longwood. As
the ’Cats approach a road trip this week, they look to build off of these tough match-ups.

The team took on the Marist Red Foxes at Richardson Stadium last Wed., March 18. The first half opened with
slow back-and-forth goal scoring, as each team sought to control the pace of the game. Emily Rahill ’10 scored a
pair of goals and Liz Wall ’12 converted a penalty shot to give the team a 4-2 halftime lead.

The beginning of the second period witnessed two quick goals by the ’Cats, from Callie Seymour ’09 and Anna Smith
’12, to give the home team a four-goal advantage. Within the twenty-minute mark, however, the injury-rocked Davidson bench started to
show its lack of depth. One Marist goal led to another until the visitors had reversed the lead after an
8-0 run. But the ’Cats were not through yet. Jen Crawford ’10 led the comeback charge, knocking in two goals,
while Jenna Mugele ’12 added a third. At this point, it was a one-goal game: 9-10. A couple of late
fouls by the exhausted Davidson defense allowed Marist to seal the victory.

Wildcat offense finds life in Sunday rout of Wofford

TAN QUA
Staff Writer

The Davidson baseball team dropped two...of three games this weekend in a series with SoCon rival Wofford in Spartanburg, S.C.
The team began the series miserably, losing 7-5 on Friday and 4-2 on Saturday. But the bats came alive on
Sunday to propel the Wildcats to a 16-8 win in the final game of the series. The Davidson lineup took
out the frustration of the previous two games on Sunday in their 16-8 rout of Wofford. First Baseman Danny Weiss
’11 led the Wildcat rally, not leaving a single man on base all game. He helped the Wildcats fill out
the stat sheet on Sunday, finishing 4 for 6 with 3 runs and 5 runs batted in. Right Fielder Chase
Fitzpatrick ’09 also had a productive Sunday, going 3 for 5 with 3 runs and 3 runs batted in. Catcher
Seth Freeman ’12 was the only other Wildcat to tally three or more hits, going 3 for 5 with one
run on the afternoon. Matt Webb ’09 controlled the Wofford lineup on the mound and picked up the win on
Sunday. Webb struck out four, gave up only one run on three hits, and pitched four and two-thirds innings on
Sunday afternoon to steadily propel the Wildcat team to victory. Wofford’s starting pitcher Cash Collins was less than effective on
Sunday. The Wildcat lineup got to the starter and forced him out of the game after he had given up
three earned runs and six hits over three innings.

See Baseball, page 10

Second baseman James Cerbie ’12 had two hits and an RBI in Sunday’s 16-8 win over Wofford. The ’Cats tallied
19 hits.

build momentum put a dent in the response, and Marist grabbed the 11-9 win. Along with the close goal scoring,
the ’Cats maintained a tight contest in the game’s most important stat—ground balls—pulling nine to Marist’s 10. The Red Foxes
dominated the draw controls, picking up the possession 14 times out of 22 draws. Crawford, Smith, and Haley Cook ’10
contributed one assist each to Davidson’s goal scoring. Just three days later, the ’Cats trekked to Farmville, Va. to face
the Longwood Lancers. Again, this match saw significant back and forth action, marked by solid Davidson runs. But again, the
team could not maintain its intensity in the second half. Cook opened the scoring in the first half, netting her
first goal just a couple of minutes into the game. She would be followed, however, by three straight Longwood scores
that stretched a Davidson scoring drought to beyond 20 minutes. The opening period came to a close with a 3-1
Lancer lead. As the second half got underway, the home team knocked in two scores to extend the lead to
four. Reminiscent of the Marist game, the Wildcats mounted an impressive comeback, bringing the margin to one, 5-4. During the
streak, Mugele, Cook, and Rahill

See Lacrosse, page 10

Player of the Week

The senior earned the win on the mound for the Wildcats in Sunday’s 16-8 victory over Wofford. Webb threw four
and two-thirds innings allowing just one unearned run and striking out four batters. He leads the ‘Cats’ pitching staff with
an ERA of 1.35 to go along with a 1-0 record and two saves.

Matt Webb ’09 BASEBALL JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Sieracki sets school record in the 3,000 meters at 49er Classic

In Davidson's first outdoor track meet of the season, Thad Sieracki ’09 set a new school record in the 3,000
meters at the Charlotte 49er Classic. His time of 8:32.47 bested the previous record by over three seconds and earned
the senior a runner-up finish in the event. Sieracki also recorded a top-five finish in the 1,500 meters.
