re. ‘changed, ‘impassioned and inspired through the ships, and as a result ‘create organizations and lobby in the The Davidsonian.

Editors-in-Chief
Katherine Miller & Brian Moran

Managing Editor
Kate Kelly

News Editors
Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood

Perspectives Editors
Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris

Arts & Living Editors
Zoe Balaconis & Jennifer Gambrell

Yow! Editors
Alex Greening

Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis

Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Nami Patel

Business & Circulation Managers
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright

Online Editor
Greg Newman

Content Manager
Kelly Beggs

Assistant Copy Editors
Katie Irby, Alex Kowaleski, Patricia Reid, Jeff Roth

Photography Staff
Bill King, Aaron Robinson & Laney Schenk

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182. E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Only the staff editorial represents the views of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Email Jordan Wall at jowall@davidson.edu for advertising inquiries.

ALISSA IREI
Guest Columnist

This month, Glamour magazine is celebrating Women’s History Month, and the women who came before us. And yes, I do clandestinely read Glamour. But, on a matter of firm and unwavering principle, never do I ever read Cosmo. ... Well, okay, seldom do I ever read Cosmo. In this special issue, a tribute to Mary Tyler Moore got me thinking about young American women at work. Glamour quotes Moore as saying, with regard to her eponymous television show, “How could I tire of accomplished women approaching me with tears in their eyes, telling me I’m the reason they are where they are?”

Although I won’t pretend to write as “the” American working girl, I will claim to write on behalf of some of her sisters. I feel entitled to do so because I have worked before and will hopefully work again (fingers crossed, Mom and Dad!), and because for two decades I’ve been a girl—a fairly girlie one, I’ll confess. I did pull a brief stint in first grade as a self-proclaimed tomboy: I abruptly stopped wearing dresses, and instead wore holes through the knees of all my overalls. My time back then was spent crawling around the school lawn on all fours, playing “Puppies” with my best friend Matthew Kingery. On second thought, it might not have been so much a tomboy phase as a canine one. Regardless, I believe that my first grade days—my own personal liberated ’60s, in which I cast off the pretty smocked dresses of my naive and sheltered kindergarten youth—lend further nuance and complexity to my history as a woman. For these reasons, and others, I'll be so bold as to speak to the collective experience of a handful of American girls I know particularly well, the ones here at Davidson.

I haven’t always loved “The Mary Tyler Moore Show,” but I am a bona fide aficionado of the retro working girl genre. My favorites have long-included “Murphy Brown” (a network journalist with big shoulder pads and a bigger attitude), “Designing Women” (four Southern designers with big shoulder pads, big hair and bigger attitudes) and “Working Girl” (Melanie Griffith with really big shoulder pads). I used to find both Mary Tyler Moore’s padding and her timid persona underwhelming and unimpressive; although I generally believe that a lady’s sass should be more noticeable than her stuffing. But I was wrong about Mary. Most heroines of working girl comedies have big personalities and lots of confidence. They fumble, of course, but they have the chutzpah to go after what they want, and they get it with style. Mary Tyler

1) Davidson, make

JOHN ROGERS AND GRAHAM YOUNGER
Guest Columnists

There is a scenario that everyone at Davidson College is thinking about, but no one wants to talk about. Stephen Curry is projected to be as high as a top ten pick in the NBA draft, and if he were to declare for the draft and forgo his senior season, the entire school would be devastated. But would anyone suggest that Curry does not deserve to have his number retired?

The late Mike Maloy’s statistics make it clear that he is one of Davidson’s all-time greats. He is still Davidson’s all-time leading rebounder and sixth all-time in scoring, and tallied three All-American selections, despite the fact that players were not allowed on the varsity team until their sophomore seasons. He led Davidson within a game of the Final Four twice. As the first African-American student athlete to come to Davidson, his contributions extended into a political realm well beyond statistics. The story of how basketball superstar Charlie Scott chose UNC over Davidson after being denied service at a local restaurant is still known on campus. But if Maloy had not become the first African-American to play basketball at Davidson, Scott’s story could have had a much larger impact on both the basketball program and the town. And it seems as if anyone who came into contact with him will tell you exactly how warm and engaging he was. NoneOf this matters, however, since Davidson College has a rule that refuses players who do not graduate the honor of entering the Hall of Fame or having their jersey retired. While the idea behind this rule—to show students the importance of finishing school—is a good one, Maloy’s situation shows that it is better in theory than in practice. Maloy left school shortly after his senior basketball season was over, after he was drafted by the Boston Celtics.

Popular prototypes of ‘The working woman’

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 2009

Moore was diffident and goofy, sometimes even bashful. Was she adorable? Yes. Smart? Sure. Sophisticated? Not terribly. She’s no Gloria Steinem or Michelle Obama, not by a long shot. But then how did she, a lowly sitcom character, manage to make many American working women feel they could dream big and accomplish bigger? I think maybe Mary was inspiring because she felt the way many professional girls secretly feel—vulnerable, hapless, and occasionally very, very awkward. In another life maybe Mary would have gotten married, had kids, and been the patsy of the PTA, carpool, or little league bullies. But instead, she became a successful television news producer. She’s still cute, still nice, still fairly easy to bully. She messes up a lot. But she always shows up again the next day, because, well, it’s her job.

There’s never been a better time to be a young American woman. We have more confidence than the women of Mary Tyler Moore’s generation, more opportunities than the women of our grandmothers’. We’re allowed to letter in sports. We can do yoga, take knitting classes, give birth, get Ph.D.s. We can dress up or down, design rocket ships or shoes. We are girls; we are women—hear us roar. We are not sure we really can or want to have it all, but we are thinking hard about what we do want and how to get it.

I think that during this Women’s History Month, we Davidson girls—future working women of America—can still learn something from that retro, goofy character Mary Tyler Moore played so appealingly in her 1970s sitcom. Most, if not all of us, feel an immense pressure to be perfect—at one thing, at many things, or at everything. We are so rich in opportunities and ideals that sometimes it’s hard not to feel guilty for failing to live up to each of them. When we enter the work world next year, or in two years, or in five, the pressures will likely only escalate. Sometimes our imperfections will seem glaring, our defeats very big, ourselves very small. So on those low days when you couldn’t feel less like the fabulous Michelle Obama, remember Mary Tyler Moore. At work and in life, sometimes you screw up. Sometimes you’re shown up. Then you finish the day as graciously as you can. On the couch that night, with your good friends Ben and Jerry, you assume the fetal position and flip on “Jon and Kate Plus Eight,” the Food Network or if you’re really lucky, “The Mary Tyler Moore Show.” You call your mom, your best friend, your favorite former roommate. You rant, you rave, you rally and you show up at work the next day. Girl, you’re gonna make it after all.

Alissa Irei ’09 is a political science major from Scottsdale, Ariz. Contact her at aliirei@davidson.edu.

Room for Maloy

It is hard to believe this sets some sort of poor example for other students. People can only play basketball for a living for so long before their bodies break down. The decision to leave school and begin a basketball career was personal, and after being such an excellent ambassador for Davidson in the decades that followed, Maloy deserved the chance to make that decision. Not even the most impressionable people could see Maloy’s jersey in the rafters of Belk Arena and think that it somehow condones dropping out of school. His situation was quite different from that of most Davidson athletes. Davidson is an institution that should realize how many different ways there are to succeed in life, but cannot seem to accept that the decision not to graduate was Maloy’s to make. Why can’t the powers that be accept that students here can be prepared for their futures even if they do not graduate? Anyone who watches Coach McKillop mold college students into men knows that being on the team surely prepared Maloy for later life, and gave him the skills he needed. Almost every basketball fan in the state of North Carolina, if not the entire United States, can remember how Davidson’s run to the doorstep of the Final Four felt. If Stephen Curry decided to capitalize on his exceptional skill and enter the NBA draft, and we saw another player wearing his 30 during the next college basketball season, the public outcry would be heard from space. Mike Maloy gave Davidson fans the same elation of Elite Eight appearances twice, and his jersey should hang from the rafters. Unfortunately, he passed on without ever seeing his number honored.

John Rogers ’11 is a history major from Montclair, NJ. Graham Younger is an English major from Ft. Worth, Texas. Contact them at gryounger@davidson.edu and jorogers@davidson.edu.