DAVIDSON COLLEGE INSIDE THIS WEEK

ABBOTT READS NEW AND SELECTED WORKS
Professor of English Emeritus Tony Abbott read from his new collection of poetry last Sunday in Tyler-Tallman Hall.
See NEWS, page 4

RED AND BLACK BALL SUCCEEDS AT RAISING AIDS AWARENESS
Warner Hall’s annual “Red and Black Ball” raised over $10,000 for AIDS research last Saturday night.
See ARTS, page 5

RETURN TO SOCON RIVALRIES
Men’s and Women’s Basketball return to SoCon play with mixed results.
See SPORTS, page 12

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009
www.thedavidsonian.com
VOLUME 101, NUMBER 12

Wildcat wins Charlotte’s mayoral race
Kelsey Lilley
News Editor

Monday night in Charlotte, Davidson alumnus Anthony Foxx ’93 was installed as mayor amidst a packed room, receiving a standing ovation when called to the podium to take the oath of office. In a speech that received a second standing ovation and numerous outbursts of clapping, Foxx detailed his plan to improve Charlotte, noting the need to diversify the economy, accelerate job growth, and improve the public education system.

In the mayoral bid for Charlotte, Foxx faced Republican John Lassiter, seeking to replace incumbent Republican Pat McCrory, who served for 14 years. With a 3,239-vote margin, Foxx was declared winner shortly after Lassiter conceded the race. Compared to previous years, the 2009 mayoral race saw a surprisingly high voter turnout, with Foxx sweeping many predominantly black districts, as well as precincts that went red in past elections.

Foxx is now the youngest and second black mayor that Charlotte has ever seen; he is also the first Democrat in 22 years. “The remarkable story of Charlotte is not over,” Foxx said. “A new chapter is beginning.”

Foxx grew up and attended high school in Charlotte before going on to attend Davidson College, where he was elected as the first black student body president. “I wouldn’t be mayor of Charlotte had I not gotten involved in student government at Davidson,” Foxx laughed, “no question about that.”

Foxx majored in history before attending NYU School of Law, where he was awarded the Root-Tilden-Snow Public Interest Law Scholarship. “My experience in the 20 or so years ago was that I could lead people, and I could lead a diverse group—diverse in every sense in which you can think of it—to finding common ground on issues,” Foxx said. “That skill was honed over 4 years at Davidson...”

Popular tradition of Winter Fest
Kelly Wilson
Staff Writer

On Saturday, Jan. 23, students are invited to a new campus event, Winter Fest, where there will be food, games, and music to enjoy. “Originally, the Union Board, Student Government Association (SGA), and the Patterson Court Council (PCC) planned on having an event in November with an afternoon portion and an evening portion,” Union Board President Allison Ruhe ’10 said. “However, it became apparent that it was not possible within time constraints to organize the event, so we ended up moving it to next semester, with the result being we had to eliminate the afternoon part.”

“In light of recent discussions surrounding alcohol at Davidson as well as uniting the Davidson community, [these organizations] will host an event to celebrate Davidson, promote healthy drinking habits, and foster a greater sense of community amongst all members of the college,” Student Government Association President Meikaela Zwierzynski ’10 said. “Specifically, the student organizations want to encourage further social interaction between students who choose to...

Photo by CR Shaw
Foxx takes the oath of office Monday night in Charlotte. He is the 6th Davidson alum to hold the mayoral office, as well as the first Democrat in 22 years."drink and those who choose not to engage in drinking."

"As we see a clear divide in our student community, we want to do all that we can to build a bridge between these groups," she continued. "We believe that such unity will foster a healthier, safer, and more rewarding social climate at Davidson."

Ruhe was unable to disclose specific details about the event, but she noted, "Be on the lookout for publicity about it as soon as we get back for spring semester! I can tell you there will be music, food, games, and a lot more! There will be things to do throughout the entire Union."

While this is the first Winter Fest, Davidson used to host an event called Mid-Winters, which continued until the late nineties. "I never lost my taste for seeing a community come together to solve problems. And that’s what we did at Davidson and that’s what I hope to do in Charlotte."

After law school, Foxx worked in Washington as a judicial clerk on the U.S. Sixth Circuit of Appeals, an attorney for the Civil Rights Division of the United States Department of Justice, and a staff counsel to the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on the Judiciary. Foxx then returned to Charlotte where he served as an at-large member of Charlotte City Council, in which he participated in initiatives for job growth and better public safety and transportation.

Regarding his politics, Foxx seeks to strengthen Charlotte’s economy, prevent capital flight, fight homelessness and job loss, and better the transportation system. He also hopes to implement a new Public Safety Plan for the city, support after-school programs, and increase youth employment.

"As an average person growing up in Charlotte, I expected to succeed," Foxx said. "I expected to succeed because of my family."

See Foxx, page 2

"It was one of three 'big' weekends for many years," said William Brown, Director of the Alvarez College Union. "I don’t know when it started. It had been around a while when I arrived as a student in 1966. In the days before co-education these three weekends — Homecoming, Mid-Winters, and Spring Frolics — all had the same formula. Guys living in Belk and Richardson moved out and stayed on mattresses that were added to the rooms in other dorms. The vacated rooms were used by dates coming in for the weekend.

"We had concerts at 8 p.m. on Friday and Saturday nights followed by a campus party provided by the Union and fraternity parties at off-campus locations both nights," he continued. "Often the Union provided all-night activities — at least until 4 or 5 a.m. This was in the days when alcohol was not permitted on campus. In 1968, or so, alcohol was allowed on campus, so the fraternity parties moved to the houses, but the formula was the same. In the eighties and early nineties Mid-Winters usually featured Friday afternoon parties in the 900 Room and Saturday afternoon in the Commons."

When Davidson became co-ed, all weekends became more important than they had been, and the need for "big weekends" was not as important. Mid-Winters slowly faded out of the social scene at Davidson because "there was not the need for the old tradition," Brown said.

This year’s Winter Fest will be open to the entire campus. "We want as many people to come as possible!" Ruhe said. "There will be something for everyone."

Although the event is already completely planned, anyone interested in helping run the evening on Jan. 23 should contact alruhe. For those interested in planning general campus events, the Union Board welcomes new committee members.