THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18, 2009

Prestigious honor for Davidson College: stylistic spectrum like Si Hoy: Windley Hall Creative Writing Avira ambitiously and successfully meditates in five poems on the implications and raw passion of an interracial romance. The three lines, “You peel back my skin/ with your fingers/ like smooth razors” demonstrate the sophisticated and innovative figurative language of Hall’s collection. Reading and interacting with Hall’s poetry, or any non-professional’s writing, is just as valuable and respectable as reading the...

See Awards, page 6

JON WOLF Staff Writer

Rather than bring a sampling of his works to hang in the William H. Van Every Gallery of the Visual Arts Center, artist Chris Johanson instead chose to arrive empty-handed two weeks ago. The clean, white, blank rooms of the gallery were not simply a place for Johanson to mount and show his art; they have instead become the canvas for one large piece. Continuality is known as a “site-specific installation,” in which Johanson uses the size, shape, and layout of the gallery space as a frame for him to install his sculpture. The painted wooden boards and panels which make up Continuality are to be viewed as one giant work, rather than a collection of smaller individual works. Visitors of the exhibition are encouraged and expected to explore the space in their own way.

All of the materials Johanson used for this exhibit are recycled from previous construction projects. Brad Thomas, director and curator of the gallery, smiled as he spoke about searching through dumpsters just a week before Continuality’s opening reception last Thursday night. Repainted pieces of a Theater Department set, a sheet of wood used to catch the overspray of a stenciling project, and scraps of two-by-fours are among the found materials that comprise the sculpture.

Continuality has many striking elements. Likely the most immediate is Johanson’s emphasis on economy: not only is his art made from recycled materials, but it is also constructed purposefully in as little time as possible. The philosophy of economy in this exhibit is undeniably poignant, and the result is sculpture which is raw and walks the line between conceptual and unfinished-looking. This roughness is remarkably compelling because it proves that beauty can be found in imperfect work, which may counter the typical Davidson student’s convictions.

Also striking is Johanson’s use of color. Though there is a huge diversity of pigmentation among the panels, beams, and figures of Continuality, it is clear that great pains were taken to create coherence: there is much juxtaposition of harmonious muted earth tones and pastels. Interpretations are meant to be literal according to Johanson, and he seems to be able to offer one for almost every color in the entire composition, demonstrating, whether it was premeditated or retroactive, intentionality.

A final key element of Continuality is the way in which Johanson employs lighting in the galleries. Clustered spotlights push a splayed, sharp, and regular gradient of shadow below and around the sculpture in a way which contrasts the rough-hewn nature of the figures creating the shadow. It is not surprising to learn that some of Johanson’s only formal training in art is in photography, given his virtuosic eye for the interplay of light and dark.

Continuality was produced partly in collaboration with an extension of the Urban Ministries Center in Charlotte, known as Art Works 945. Johanson desired to work in partnership with underserved members of the community, so a number of small human figures were taken to Art Works 945 where they were painted.by homeless community members. Their incorporation into the exhibition is in a large central platform known as the “stage,” where these human figures appear in orderly rows. The direction of their motion (going or coming) is ambiguous, and almost every visitor interviewed offered a slightly different interpretation. The “stage” is connected, literally, by an earth-brown beam of scrap wood, to a smaller room on the left. In this portion of the gallery are works representing the sun and the moon, as well as a painting of a group prayer which simply stands on the floor. Closer to the entrance of the gallery, the “maze” is a construction of painted wood panels, which pushes visitors and their eyes through the space, yet avoids causing a feeling of confinement. Continuity is highly effective, moving, and approachable. A largely self-taught artist, Johanson has created an installation that is extremely accessible and inviting to the eye, and most importantly, a fantastic place to stand and see yourself move as a part of the art. The exhibition will be open until April 15, and for more information, visit the gallery’s website at http://www3.davidson.edu/cms/x25463.xml.

Service trip breaks from the ordinary
CARA WOODROOF
Staff Writer

Each break, many Davidson students choose to take an Alternative Break. Alternative Breaks, a program organized by the Community Service Office, allows students to volunteer for various causes. This year one group went to Richmond, Va. to work with an organization called Boaz and Ruth, Inc. Boaz and Ruth is a large non-profit organization that helps previously incarcerated individuals reintegrate into society. The NGO’s headquarters are in Highland Park, one of the most difficult and least privileged areas of Richmond. The group had two trip leaders, John Jertson ’10 and Emily Hassell ’10. While there, the group helped reorganize the thrift store owned and operated by Boaz and Ruth, Inc. The group also completed construction and painting projects on the houses inhabited by program participants. Boaz and Ruth owns a number of other businesses, allowing the organization to provide jobs for recently released individuals. Jertson observed that, “the people working for Boaz and Ruth have served their time, yet still most employers will not hire them because they are felons.” Boaz and Ruth’s businesses include Sunny Days Thrift Store, Job Connection, Cathedral Construction, Fire House 15 Shops and Restaurant, Mountain Movers, Parable Restoration, Harvest Store, and Diamond Café and Catering. Boaz and Ruth also has an especially effective partnership with AmeriCorps, a program that provides funding to community-oriented organizations. “The people working for Boaz and Ruth have served their time, yet still most employers will not hire them.” - John Jertson ’10

Boaz and Ruth partners with a variety of government, faith-based, academic, and other non-profit organizations. Along with providing jobs for these individuals, they also offer classes concerning such topics as how to dress for business and how to manage emotions. The organization’s three main objectives for its participants are “rebuild,” “empower,” and “connect.” Ann Watford ’10 could not help but observe the “strength of these men and women who were making such a positive change in their lives.” The Davidson group also had the chance to participate in several discussion groups, one of which was called “Beyond Dialogue” and dealt with race relations. The group also spoke with the participants in the program. Watford said that, “the time we spent with formerly incarcerated men and women was probably the most valuable — we all benefited from hearing their stories.” The group also had the chance to tour the Richmond city jail. As Watford pointed out, seeing the jail allowed them to appreciate even more fully the experiences of the individuals they were helping. It is not surprising that Martha Rollins, President of Boaz and Ruth, received the Purpose Prize for entrepreneurs who develop creative solutions for serious social problems.