DAVIDSON COLLEGE

INSIDE THIS WEEK

NFL’s GOODELL ADDRESSES ETHICS
NFL Commissioner, Roger Goodell, spoke Monday as part of the Vann Center for Ethics dedication ceremony. Listen to Sports Editor Logan Lewis’s and Morgan Arant’s full, live interview with Goodell on thedavidsonian.com, courtesy of WALT 1610 AM.
see NEWS, page 4

CURIOUSER AND CURIOUSER!
Student-director, Samantha Karlin ’10, takes audiences down the rabbit hole in this weekend’s production of “Alice in Wonderland”
see ARTS, page 5

ANOTHER SEASON IN THE BOOKS
Cats Football wraps season with overall record of 3-7 after 14-6 loss to Marist Red Foxes on Senior Day this past Saturday
see SPORTS, page 10

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2009

KELLY WILSON
Staff Writer

Davidson College recently upgraded its emergency notification system, which currently consists of public address speakers outside and an electronic warning system that sends text messages, emails, and voice recordings to students, faculty, and staff. Known as the Students, Staff and Faculty Emergency Response (SSAFER) system, the notification process is activated during “any situation where we feel like there could be serious injury and or death because of a man-made or natural incident,” said Chief Fountain Walker, Director of Public Safety and Police. “Each situation can grow, and we have to get the information out as quickly and concisely as we possibly can. We just don’t want to put erroneous information out there.”

The Dean of Students Office, the President’s Office, Information Technology Services (ITS), the Davidson Town Police, the Davidson Fire Department, and the Campus Police each played a role in making decisions about the upgrade. “I don’t operate by myself,” Walker noted. “We’ve all been having these discussions about how this system can work.”

The College had been using a Reverse Notification 911 system since 2005, but as an institution “it was time to upgrade because we need to be able to communicate better,” Walker said. “There are also very specific guidelines for higher education. For example, in 2010 the federal government will make us responsible for timely notification, so realistically we need to have a system where we can notify you within a very short period of time.”

In addition to the SSAFER text messaging capabilities, the public address system is also new. “We’ve always had a notification system; the college had an in-house system when there were phones in the room we could call and do a general voice mail that would cause every phone to ring, but we did not purchase the public address system until last year,” Walker said. “All we’re doing is upgrading — every year we're upgrading.

“The public address system is for people who are outside,” he continued. “It’s a way to get people’s attention. It has tones and computerized voices, and it’s also tied into the SSAFER system. It’s actually what I call married to the electronic system.”

See Security, page 3

EAC encourages conservation

HAYDEN HIGGINS
Staff Writer

Every year, environmentally-minded students at Davidson College organize a contest affectionately known as “Do It In The Dark.” During the month-long competition, members of the Environmental Action Coalition track the electricity usage of the residential dormitories on campus. Results are compared with a baseline and reported to the student body.

What makes Do It In The Dark an interesting case study that can be related to the world at large, is that artificial incentives are introduced into the competition to spur involvement that benefits the commonwealth. EAC promises prizes—metallic water bottles this year—to whichever dormitory triumphs and tries to raise dorm pride in order to stimulate students to conserve energy in ways they might not usually consider feasible. In this way, Do It In The Dark mirrors the useof real-world policy instruments, such as carbon cap-and-trade markets, tax deductions for environmentally-friendly operations, and carbon taxes, which implement a carrots-and-sticks approach to spur public safety against environmental dangers like pollution and global warming. "Do It In The Dark" brings together two different groups (the organizers and the competitors) who have very different goals—the organizers must harness the utility-maximizing behavior of the participants to the organizers’ own ends. While in a perfect world both parties act altruistically in a concerted effort to save energy and do good, it is difficult for the average student to weigh the costs of a well-heated room against the immediate comfort it provides.

“Fifty-four percent of Davidson’s greenhouse gas emissions come from electricity,” Sustainability Fellow Kealy Devoy said, much of which is generated at coal-fired power plants. To make the benefits of energy conservation more tangible, EAC artificially substitutes in a new reward: the prizes that go to the winner of the competition. EAC accepts that not everyone is enough of an idealist to want to “go green;” what they do recognize, and emphasize, is that everyone likes ice cream. The equation of saving energy with getting prizes is misleading but not altogether false: in the real world, instead of prizes like the water bottle and ice cream party, saving energy results in perhaps even greater prizes like clean air and water and long-term economic well-being.

"Do It In The Dark’s" larger significance does not come from the drop in school energy bills which inevitably accompanies the competition, but rather from the messages and lessons it imbues in students. Saving energy can have tangible rewards. This statement is, in fact, becoming more relevant every day as conventional energy resources (oil, gas, coal) dwindle and more and more governments offer greater tax- and market-based incentives for participation in energy-saving practices.

See Dark, page 2

---

VOLUME 101, NUMBER 11

TB case confirmed

CAROLINE WOOD
News Editor

After months of fixation on the spread of swine and seasonal flu on campus, a new concern has emerged: the presence of active tuberculosis in the Davidson community. Yesterday, the College reported that one community member has been diagnosed positively with tuberculosis, a disease that rarely surfaces, even on college campuses.

“In my 15 years at Davidson, this is the first time we have had a case on our campus,” Dean of Students Tom Shandley reported in a campus-wide email. The individual has remained anonymous, but College officials report that they are undergoing care at a local hospital and that full recovery is expected.

Tuberculosis is caused by airborne bacteria and is contracted by breathing infected air. Symptoms include extensive coughing, fever, weight loss, and fatigue. “Although tuberculosis can be serious, this is not a time for alarm,” Shandley said. “Not everyone who is exposed to tuberculosis becomes infected, and not everyone who is infected becomes sick. The health of our community is of primary importance to us, and we are committed to ensuring a safe and healthy semester for all of our students, faculty, and staff.”

The Davidson Health Center, under the direction of Craig White, M.D., promptly assembled a page of frequently asked questions about tuberculosis. The document covers general information about the disease, symptoms, and protocol for testing students on campus. Medical professionals test for the presence of tuberculosis using a skin test, often called a PPD test (this refers to the tuberculin purified protein derivative, the part of the bacterium to which the skin reacts). A positive reaction to the test, characterized by localized swelling at the site of injection, indicates an immune response to tuberculosis bacteria. This response can be caused by active tuberculosis as well as previous exposure or a previous tuberculosis vaccine (which is not administered in the United States). A subsequent chest x-ray reveals whether an individual who has tested positive is infected.

See TB, page 4