THE DAVIDSONIAN

New Science and Math Center Funded

By Caroline Wood, News Editor

Davidson’s new Math and Science Center opened on Sunday, January 24. Dr. Mark Barsoum, director of the center, explained that the crowded center hosted 20 students on its opening night, with 18 chemistry students and two math students. Barsoum hopes that the center will always be equipped with student tutors in every subject—biology, chemistry, physics, and math. “We’re trying to cover all intro classes at all times,” he said.

The 23 student tutors include both majors and minors in their fields, and all have tutored previously. The most important difference in the services the Math and Science Center provides compared to the previous tutoring system is cost. The Math and Science Center promises “free tutoring for math and science courses, by qualified, trained, experienced peers,” while students in past semesters have had to pay for sessions or qualify for special categories of financial aid. The service is funded by a number of sources, including the Howard Hughes Medical Institute Undergraduate Science Education Grant and funds from the Dean of Students’ office and the Office of Academic Affairs.

“It’s enriching and fun and reminiscent of all the pain I went through,” said Joel Fineman ’10, a chemistry minor who tutors regularly. “It’s nice to have someone to turn to.”

Although students can still make appointments to meet with tutors one-on-one at a specific time, the new setup also allows students to walk in without planning in advance. Students can meet and get to know the tutors without signing up for sessions, a distinct advantage of the new program. “People can just come in and ask us questions instead of making an appointment,” Matt Surdel ’10 explained, adding that previously, students eligible for tutoring had to choose a random name from a list in order to select a tutor.

Walk-in hours at the Math and Science Center are Monday-Thursday, 9:00 p.m. — 12:00 a.m. The center also provides a meeting space for study groups or students hoping to work with other members of their classes. The tutoring staff, which is responsible for keeping an eye on class syllabi for introductory science classes, will also hold review sessions before major reviews and exams.

Another advantage of the Math and Science Center is the training it provides to tutors. Barsoum explained that in the former system, chemistry tutors received some brief training, but now he will personally train tutors in each subject. The training process will begin next week.

The Math and Science Center certainly boasts an impressive range of student employees. Surdel, a Neuroscience major at the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies, is currently choosing between a number of M.D./Ph.D. programs, and Fineman explained that he is considering accepting a fellowship teaching chemistry in the fall.

The idea for the center was conceived as a part of a larger grant, the $1.5 million HHMI Undergraduate Science Education Grant. Davidson was selected as one of 48 out of 192 applying institutions to receive funding from the institute, its fourth grant in total.

Knauss Exhibits Drawings

“Endgames” Second in Series of Senior Shows

By Caroline Wood, News Editor

On Monday, the Studio Art department sponsored another opening celebration for a student show, this time for the work of Andy Knauss '10. The show, entitled “Endgames,” will continue in the Edward M. Smith Gallery through January 27. Knauss’s show, the second this semester, follows the exhibit “A Subtle Sanity,” by Grant Clark ’10.

Knauss is currently displaying 12 9”x13” pen and ink drawings, as well as four 10”x14” pen, ink, and colored pencil drawings accompanied by four corresponding 4’x6’ acrylic paintings. The series of 12 drawings, which were created in 2007, represent the seven deadly sins as well as five of what Knauss calls “auxiliary sins.” The set of seven hauntingly grotesque drawings includes “Pride,” “Sloth,” “Gluttony,” and “Lust.” The five auxiliary sins Knauss depicts serve as the titles of the other five works, which include “Madness,” “Blame,”“Assumption” and “Pride/Prejudice.” One of the most striking of the set is “Assumption,” in which Knauss parodies René Magritte’s famous painting “The Treachery of Images.” In his drawing, Knauss has replaced Magritte’s pipe with a detailed drawing of a handgun, while the caption reads “Ceci n’est pas un revolver” [This is not a revolver]. The four drawing/painting sets depict the four horsemen of the apocalypse mentioned in the biblical book of Revelation. The four horsemen, which appear in chapter six of the book, deliver “Famine,” “Pestilence,” “War,” and “Death,” the titles of Knauss’s four paintings. 

Knauss said that the drawings served as prototypes for the large paintings, explaining that although pen and ink remains his medium of choice, he wanted viewers to be impacted by the spectacle of the imposing paintings. Knauss addressed several aspects of his personal style in his Artist’s Statement, which is affixed to the wall as part of the exhibit. “Due to my interest in graphic arts, I prefer to work primarily with representational and figural subject matter,” he wrote. “The sin series, with its combination of caricature and metaphor, served as the springboard to my subsequent, more ambitious horseman series.” 

Knauss explained that he used both the four elements and the primary colors as motifs to increase viewers’ visceral identification with the pieces’ symbolism, although the original colors are white, black, red, and pale. Perhaps the most striking aspect of “Endgames” are the quotations that accompany each piece. The drawings in the sin series are underscored with quotations from Shakespeare, including passages from “The Tempest,” “The Merchant of Venice,” “Henry IV,” and Sonnet 129. The horseman groups are also accompanied by quotations from Shakespeare, as well as passages drawn from the British Romantic poets William Blake and Samuel Taylor Coleridge. 

Knauss’s painting “War” is accompanied by two stanzas from Blake’s “The Tyger,” which describes the creature’s nearly god-like power and ferocity. Knauss mentioned that the entire show, not only the horseman pieces, was inspired by his fascination with apocalypse. “Apocalyptic speculations are both multi-generational and cross-cultural,” he writes. “Sickness, starvation, violence, and death have been, and always will be fundamental aspects of the human condition. Given the myriad political, economic, and environmental concerns facing twenty-first-century society, however, perhaps the sign-carriers are on to something after all. Where’s a good ark when you need one?”

Two students work with Dr. Verna Case by the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. The grant program, directed by Dr. Verna Case, includes a number of other programs as well. HHMI sponsors a student summer research program and faculty mentorship, as well as a post-graduate Teaching and Research Internship program and the employment of a science outreach coordinator. “One of the other possible initiatives to be funded by the grant includes providing instructive aid in local elementary and middle schools. In North Carolina, there is a high percentage of students who just don’t understand the sciences at all. It’s supposed to be an outreach program in order to encourage students to get into the sciences and think of it as a possible career pathway,” said Olivia Ho-Shing ’10, a biology major who plans to be involved in the program. “You get training before you go on how to teach them and what they need help with. It’s not anything they wouldn’t learn in school; just having someone who’s younger teach it.”

“It sounds like a really promising program,” Ho-Shing continued. “It’s also really good for science majors to be able to communicate something to someone who needs help learning it, because a lot of times scientists struggle to communicate their research.”

The Davidsonian is currently seeking editorial staff. Students with experience working on campus publications are encouraged to apply. Please contact Caroline (cawood) or Kelsey (kelilley) for deadlines and details. Not interested in editing, but have questions about writing for News? Contact cawood or kelilley.