The “Hoyt’s RETURN” ISSUE

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2010

DAVIDSON SHOW CONSULTS VISITING SESAME STREET CREATOR FOR MORE MATURE HUMOR SEE PAGE 3

HEALTH CENTER DIAGNOSES UNION FRENCH FRIES WITH SCHIZOPHRENIA SEE PAGE 4

“STOLEN” TEXTBOOKS ACTUALLY RESHELVED BY OCD BOOKSTORE WORKER SEE PAGE 6

STATE OF THE UNION: ALVAREZ IN BETTER FINANCIAL SHAPE THAN REST OF THE UNITED STATES SEE PAGE 6

NEW CAMPUS PASTIME: WALKING ON THE CRUNCHY-LOOKING ICE SEE TOP WEEKEND WIPEOUTS

THE YOWL

Your Davidson Humor Section

Editor: Alex Greening
Next Week’s Editor: Alex Greening
Writers: Brian Correa, Scott Schreiber, Brett Chikowski, Amanda Ottaway, Lauren Odomirok

Note: The Yowl is a satirical supplement to The Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be taken as truth. Word.

Compostable Cups: A Saddening Tale of Stolen Manhood

Patterson Court—All is not well in the basement of Delta Kappa Epsilon. The bartender weeps openly into every beer he pours; the brothers, arms around one another, sip meekly at their Solos. A faint chant of “bitch” echoes like a dirge around the sullen room. These boisterous, insensitive brothers we came to know and love are but shadows of their former selves. The culprit? The eco-cup is tearing a sacred brotherhood apart.

“It’s these damn eco-cups,” chapter President S. Mydee managed to tell me through his chokes and sobs. “We in the Lambda chapter are proud of our long tradition of either ignoring or directly assaulting the environment, but for this one we can’t find someone to call a pussy until he or she stops guilt-tripping us.”

All facets of Kappa Ep life have been influenced by the new, “hippie” cups. Beirut has ceased because, as Mydee explained, “we don’t want our balls in those;” once-revered thrice-daily chuglines have been discarded because “the new cups don’t bend to the shapes of our huge mouths.” Disputes among brothers have also risen by 63% since the start of the semester, relative sobriety revealing they don’t actually like one another as much as they thought they did.

When questioned about the matter, the EAC had this to say: The Kappa Eps were a mournful sight last Friday night.

Please look up to avoid roof-alanches.

Fringe Group Uses Acronyms in Attempt at World Domination

New York, NY—In recent weeks groups of angry protesters and disgruntled members of the GLBTQ community have been fighting just about anyone in hopes to expand their unchallenged stranglehold on the concept of sexuality and, therefore, authority over more or less every single member of the human population. Their latest victories have been additions to their snake-like acronym, which is now growing daily: GLBTQABAFFPNGS5S0BKLICPHP3%7S@8vB3t6H$GRE(F)FOWP?QMJO.

“They snuck in an ‘A’ at the end, like no one would notice...” Advocates Monday snuck in an “A” at the end, like no one would notice. “A for Ally” rogue recruiters innocently hang flyers, attend massive assemblies and even smile when you walk past them on the street, all in a diabolical international plot to transcend the lines of sexual orientation and gender association as a means to better control entire populations.

“You know, they kind of remind me of the Yankees. With all these recent acquisitions it seems as though they’re just targeting every free agent available. It’s really just unfair to the smaller market organizations that cannot afford to lure in this kind of talent,” cried Michael Jones shortly after he had been bamboozled into becoming part of the acronym.

The list currently reads Gay-Lesbian-Bisexual-Transgender-Questioning-Allies-Business Associates-Facebook Fans-Parents-Neighbors-Gays-50.Cent-Burger King Employees-Lebron James-Cute Puppies-Homeless-People from Colorado and so on... “Tell the Kappa Eps it’s our bad. We originally made them for ourselves so we could poop in them and bury them behind the Eco House to save toilet water. We’re not sure whose bright idea it was to get fraternities involved. “The boyz” refuse to go down without a fight. “We’ve been brainstorming and came up with some very promising solutions. We’re going back to the red and blue guys, that’s for sure; and if we have to keep buying the hippie cups, if they’re so eco-friendly, we can just melt them down and feed them to pledges. Everybody wins.”

February 3, 2010

THE DAVIDSONIAN

He proceeded to collide at full force with legs spread. When the student attempted to regain his dignity, he was knocked to the ground again and rolled down the hill by the Wildcat into an oncoming car. The other, attempting a rescue, face-planted, chipping both front teeth. Both survived with minor injuries.

Saturday night: One very drunk young man, who was on crutches with a broken leg, attended KA’s Hicks and Dixie Chicks party. Despite his disability, he managed to get considerably crunk on the dance floor with an unnamed female. Due to the large puddle of water on the floor thanks to melted ice, he slipped and fell in the middle of a bump n’ grind and accidentally bit a chunk off her tongue. The ad was unavailable for comment, for various reasons.

Multiple Organizations Fail to Heed Dean Shandley’s Warning

Davidson — Amidst a flurry of school-wide emails, Dean Shandley, our Dean of Students, sent out what was supposed to be the last of an inbox-filling breed. The email discussed the privileges Davidson grants us and how to respect them. However, many organizations have completely disregarded the Dean’s message. The Crier continues to burden our Outlook Express© network by sending out a nightly email telling us about random events that no one is even sure occur. The Police Station (SOMETIMES IN ALL CAPS FOR EMPHASIS) tells us how to walk safely and even tries to start games of musical parking spots in the Baker lot, forcing students to move their vehicles. A recent study has shown that of the people on the Ultimate Frisbee email list, only 5% are on the team. None of these mass emails are sustainable nor are they what our college strives for.

Major Disappointment: The Yowl’s Handy Guide

Major: Anthropology

Reasons people choose this major: They want to know why people behave like they do; It’s sociology without the statistics; Digging in the dirt reminds them of happier days in the sandbox; Who doesn’t love watching tribal life on the Discovery Channel?

Where they study abroad: Pretty much any place where humans have wreaked havoc on their environment, particularly the senior apartments. (Sorry, Antarctica).

Career options: Archaeologist; Museum Curator; Forensic Anthropologist; Journalist; Wearer of monkey suits at children’s birthday parties.

Why people avoid this major: Creationism has a firm hold on them, and an “America’s-the-best-while-all-those-other-places-are-messed-up” ethnocentric approach seems reasonable.

Description: Anthropology majors are a rare breed of Homo sapiens sapiens who constantly question what it means to be human and will yell at you for using words like “primitive,” “ancestor worship,” and “normal.” Looking at human biology, linguistics, and culture from a holistic perspective, they haughtily assume they can see all sides of an issue. They love to spend hours in front of the glass cabinet of hominid skulls in the basement of Chambers. Plus, they generally get a kick out of the “It’s so easy a caveman could do it” commercials.