2 THE DAVIDSONIAN — NEWS — WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2010

Compostable cups make their debut on Patterson Court

Kelsey Lilley
News Editor

Beginning Monday, Jan. 25, Patterson Court organizations were able to take advantage of Davidson’s newest innovation in sustainability: compostable cups. Through the new electronic party registration, Patterson Court houses can now register their party and order the new cups, which are similar to the Solo brand cups, but compostable.

The idea for compostable cups originated within the Patterson Court Sustainability Council, a part of the greater Patterson Court Council. After the initial concept was discussed, Patterson Court Sustainability Chair Lee Dorsey ’12 said that he began researching the prospect of compostable cups. “I kind of got caught up in it and it... expanded and multiplied,” he said. After a lengthy “cold calling” process to companies and distributors through Davidson’s Dining Services that included finding companies with the correct type and opacity cup, Dorsey said he settled on a brand “based on what is most similar” to the traditional Solo cup, made by Genpak Harvest.

Looking and feeling like a Solo cup, the minor difference between the compostable cups and traditional plastic cups is that the new cups are white, rather than red. The compostable cups also provide a variety of benefits that the typical plastic cups do not. In four to six weeks, the corn-based and biodegradable cups decompose without releasing toxins, unlike the 450 years needed for decomposition and toxic chemicals released by typical petroleum-based cups. In addition, the use of compostable cups means that potential waste is diverted from taking up space in a landfill to being used as compost around campus, saving not only fuel costs and pollution, but also saving the College from having to buy all its compost.

Dorsey said that this change will improve Davidson’s sustainability, but noted that his understanding of “sustainability” differs from its stereotype. “We must move beyond the ‘tree hugger’ stigma generally associated with sustainability and recognize its full implications,” he said. “Sustainability is the ability to be maintained. This involves environmental, social and economic responsibilities to the communities that surround us both closely and more distant. I sought to consider all of these factors in developing the compostable cup initiative.”

The new compostable cups are being offered for sale to Patterson Court organizations at the price of $5.00 per 50 pack, compared to $5.22 for the same amount of Solo cups, as locally retailed.

---

SAVE MONEY, SAVE THE ENVIRONMENT

The campus police immediately when a theft has occurred. The longer a student probably one of the safest places that you could ever be at, but you as an individual if the person would keep the item with them or have some...

ERNEST FINNEY PATTERSON AWARDS

The Ernest Finney Patterson Awards recognize and honor the life of Ernest Finney Patterson, beloved professor of economics at Davidson College (1957-1979) and social activist. The Department of Economics will grant up to a total of $1,200 a year to subsidize formal study, research, field work, or community service by currently...Enrolled students at Davidson College that promotes improving society and bettering the human condition consistent with the personal ideals of Professor Patterson. More information and application forms can be found at Davidson’s Economics Homepage at: http://www3.davidson.edu/cms/x3632.xml. Completed applications are due by February 12, 2010, to Dr. David Martin, Chair of the Department of Economics.

Subsidized or paid for out of grant money, the lower cost of the compostable cups is due to price negotiations with the company. Dorsey also noted that as Davidson establishes a reputation for buying compostable cups in bulk with this new company, Patterson Court organizations might see a slight price decrease in the future. According to estimates from the social chairs of Patterson Court organizations, more than 33,000 cups are used per semester at registered court parties, not including house-only functions, apartment parties, or general student body use.

Dorsey said that the availability of compostable cups only to registered court parties is a first step toward opening the process to the rest of the campus, allowing the Sustainability Council “to iron out all the creases in the process” before allowing a larger variety of groups to purchase the cups. In addition, Dorsey noted that this semester is a good time to initiate such a project to ensure that new Patterson Court members become used to using compostable cups and the new recycling protocols, then continuing the tradition for future members. Already this semester, Dorsey noted almost 100 percent participation among Patterson Court organizations in recycling, a major increase from past semesters.

Changes in recycling protocol include having a recycling bin behind the bar of every court party to allow for easier recycling.

By the Numbers:
- Number of cups used per court party*
- Number of cups used per semester at registered Patterson Court parties*
- Number of weeks it takes for new cups to decompose when composted
- Percent difference in price between 50 Solo cups and compostable cups (compostable cups are cheaper)

By Wy Drouin-Le

Above, the poster advertising compostable cups for Patterson Court organizations. The arrow and plant in the logo represent composting, while the dots around represent the houses of Patterson Court.

Separating compostable cups from cans or any other trash and placing all recycling on the curb for pickup by Physical Plant. Dorsey said that these changes may be incorporated into the Patterson Court Standards if approved by organization presidents. Dorsey attributed the success of the project to cooperation between and among a multitude of organizations on campus. In particular, he recognized the structure of Patterson Court as allowing individuals the freedom, but also the support, to take on projects like compostable cups.

“Without PCC, who would I sell [the idea] to? There’s no legitimacy,” Dorsey said. “What’s my base to build from? There’s the entire student body... The magnitude of that would essentially be starting a small business.”

“The structure of the Court encourages the most efficient environment for developing lasting change,” he continued. “The impact of a little effort from many people is magnified. I believe that here, on the Court, at Davidson, we have the opportunity to create a community that changes communities and that starts with the individual; with you and with me. Together we can all make a sustainable difference.”

Those with questions can contact Lee at ledorsey@davidson.edu.

* 2009 Social Chairs estimate