12

Triple threat: three double-doubles push Wildcats past Catamounts

Alex Thompson ’10 pulled down 10 rebounds to go along with 10 points, all from the free throw line, in Monday’s win over WCU.

JOHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

The women’s basketball team crested the halfway point of their conference schedule this week with an 8-4 record. Splitting their last two matchups, the ’Cats lost 72-61 to Appalachian State and defeated Western Carolina 75-65. In the top half of the SoCon standings, they position themselves for a strike down the stretch.

Last Saturday’s matchup brought the ’Cats out of their friendly confines and into the hostile territory of Boone, NC. They confronted the App. State Mountaineers, a feisty squad clinging just above .500 on the year. Both teams dealt a little push-and-pull action in a first-half defensive struggle. The ’Cats controlled the paint with a few scores from Sophia Aleksandravicius ’13 and Ashley Lax ’10. Launching one of five three-pointers on the day, Monica Laune ’10 embarked on what would be a career day for her. At the 20-minute buzzer, the ’Cats were behind 25-30 but showed no signs of letting up.

The game’s pace quickened in the second half, with more points across the board due to faster offense. It wasn’t necessarily cleaner, however, as the two teams totaled 31 turnovers on the day. Until the 10-minute mark, the tug-of-war rocked back and forth with the ’Cats holding onto a 4-point deficit most of the way. Then as the home-court advantage and home-court endurance sunk in, the Mountaineers pulled ahead. They stepped up their shooting to nearly 50 percent in the second half, where Davidson averaged a respectable, but not comparable, 35 percent. The ’Cats couldn’t keep up as App. pulled ahead by as much as 12.

Still burning with the two-point Chattanooga loss, the ’Cats mounted a comeback. With two minutes left, they were down a mere six points. In the closing minutes, unfortunately, App. refused to miss its shots.

See Wildcats, page 10

Men’s Tennis sweeps home opener

MIKE FRONGELLO
Sports Editor

After an impressive showing in a tough loss the week before at Clemson, the Davidson men’s tennis team rebounded with their first two wins of the season in their home opener on Saturday at the Knobloch Indoor Tennis Center. The Wildcats defeated Presbyterian 4-0 in the morning match before returning to top the Richmond Spiders 4-1 in the afternoon contest.

Chris Mark ’13 continued his impressive freshman campaign, remaining undefeated in both singles and doubles play. Playing alongside Sam Burns ’10, Mark recorded identical 8-2 victories in No. 3 doubles play. Mark completed his perfect day with a pair of straight sets victories in No. 3 singles.

Walker Lyons ’11 and Calum Gee ’12 clinched the doubles point in the morning match against Presbyterian with an 8-3 victory in No. 2 doubles. Mark’s singles victory gave the Wildcats a 2-0 lead in the match and Eric Noble ’10 and Gee completed the sweep of the Blue Hose with singles victories. Noble, playing No. 1 singles, recorded his first win of the season with a hard-fought 6-4, 7-5 win.

Playing two matches in one day is strenuous but the ’Cats remained focused throughout the day. “The team showed a lot of positive emotion that helped everyone stay mentally focused, even if they weren’t playing their best,” Lyons said.

After defeating Presbyterian in the morning, the ’Cats continued their impressive showing in the afternoon match against Richmond. Following Burns and Mark’s victory at No. 3 doubles, Noble and Joe Schafer ’13 secured the doubles point.For Davidson with a dominant 8-1 win at No. 1, Schafer proceeded to earn his second singles win of the season with a 6-4, 6-1 triumph at No. 2 to give the Wildcats a 2-0 lead. Richmond earned a point at No. 1 singles to make it 2-1, but Mark and Lyons completed the 4-1 victory with singles wins at No. 3 and No. 4, respectively. With the victories, Davidson improved to 2-1 on the season. The impressive home crowd appeared to provide a distinct home court advantage and made for an exceptional competitive setting. “The team really appreciated the large turnout of students and the energy they brought. It was a great atmosphere, and the guys were really able to feed off of it,” Lyons added. The Wildcats continue their four-match homestand with another non-conference matchup against South Carolina State Saturday afternoon at 1 p.m.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, January 27, 2010

Cats hold off Eagles for 91-87 road win
Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

No lead was big enough in the world of Davidson men’s basketball last week. The Wildcats nearly erased a 24-point deficit against Western Carolina before falling 77-67 last Wednesday. Davidson then nearly watched as a 21-point lead of its own evaporate before the Wildcats were able to hang on to a 91-87 victory at Georgia Southern on Saturday.

JP Kuhlman ’13 led the Wildcats against the Eagles, hitting for 18 points and drilling all three of his attempts from beyond the three-point arc. He also recorded six assists. Davidson seemed to have the game well under control with five minutes left, holding an 84-67 advantage. Georgia Southern refused to back down, however, and reeled off a 16-2 run that trimmed the Wildcat edge to 86-83 with 1:27 remaining. Brendan McKillop ’11 tallied two foul shots and Kuhlman added a jumper to give Davidson some margin for error. The Eagles were eventually able to close the gap to three again with two seconds remaining after Rory Spencer’s dunk. Bryant Barr ’10 was fouled and managed to make one of two from the line to provide the final margin.

Kuhlman was one of six Wildcats in double figures as Davidson equaled its highest scoring output of the season. He was joined by McKillop and Steve Rossiter ’10 who tallied 15 points apiece, Will Archambault ’10 with 13 points, Ben Allison ’12 with 12 points, and Jake Cohen ’13 with 11 points. Archambault recorded a double-double by hauling down 10 rebounds, with Allison right behind him with nine. McKillop added a team-high seven assists.

Davidson broke open a close game late in the first half. Kuhlman canned two triples and McKillop added another for a quick 9-0 run that built a 40-30 advantage. A 17-6 run gave the Wildcats a 73-52 lead.

See ’Cats, page 11

Photo by Tripp Bartholomew
JP Kuhlman ’13 drives to the basket during a recent home game. The freshman guard scored a team-high 18 points and dished out six assists in the Wildcats' win at Georgia Southern on Saturday.

Linnea Buttermore ’10
Women’s Diving
MOUNTAINSIDE, NEW JERSEY

The senior diver had a day to remember in the final home meet of her career. Buttermore won both the one-meter and three-meter diving events on Saturday. Her score of 256.35 in the three-meter broke Liz Nugent’s 10-year-old school record in the event.

Divinnie races to school record in 3000-meters at UNC Classic
Tom Divinnie ’10 finished first in the 3000-meter run in the season-opening UNC Classic on Saturday. The senior distance runner finished the race in 8:24.47 which set a new Davidson record in the event.