6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

JENNY HALL AND ALLISON JONES
Staff Writers

Last week Davidson’s own You and Your Effects performed at Live Thursday to a crowded 900 Room.

“There must not have been much going on a Thursday night because the place was packed,” said John Springfield ’11, a member of the band. But that self-deprecating remark is far off target—the show was excellent and certainly deserved the crowd it received. The tightly orchestrated, lyrical folk sound featured on their CD, “Wire Sharks,” was well adapted to the live venue, which was full of electric guitar and high energy.

The show opened with the CD’s title song, “Wire Sharks” and then “Kites,” which features all three songwriters: Springfield, Alexis Valauri-Orton ’12, and Michael Mellody ’11. Two crowd favorites were “Red Swan” and “Wombates;” the latter was called for several times by audience members.

You and Your Effects was on “hiatus” last semester when Springfield was abroad in Thailand. Another band member, James Johnson, decided to stay abroad for the rest of the year after he met a girl and fell in love.

“Some people have all the luck,” said Springfield with regards to his missing band member.

Mellody, Springfield, Valauri-Orton, and Mark Crowley ’11 asked Dan Bush to play with them this spring while Johnson chases his girl. The band currently practices in Mellody and Crowley’s attic at an off-campus house behind CVS.

The show’s opening act featured Lucia Stacey ’13 in her Davidson debut performing an Ingrid Michaelson cover and several original songs.

After a requested encore, the Union Board host reminded audience members to purchase the band’s CD, which was recorded in Sloan. It is a worthy investment for fans of indie-folk—or Davidson. CDs are available on iTunes or Amazon or by direct purchase from the band members.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2010

Stay warm, Davidson!

Davidson sophomores enjoyed Friday night’s snow to the fullest extent. They even managed to build a snowman on top of Comm.

STACEY BINNEY
Staff Writer

With the cold front moving in to stay and ice blankets covering most of Davidson, there are plenty of ways to keep warm during the last stretch of the winter season! If you are from those southern states and might not be accustomed to chilly breezes and tricky black ice, here are some helpful tips for keeping your body temperature above 98.6 degrees:

Invest in a snuggle buddy
Your best girlfriends and guyfriends can prove crucial during this ice age-reminiscent time, especially if they come complete with snacks, slippers, and season DVDs of Entourage or Sex and the City. You don’t need to run out to the store to buy eggs, milk, and mac & cheese if your friendly neighbors are fully prepared as well!

Attend a court party
These feisty bashes, complete with David Guetta and neon wristbands, bring sky-high temperatures and sticky humidity that can all but blast away those frozen noses. And, for an added bonus, if you truly commit to spending your night dancing to the techno beats for four hours, you may just forget how cold it is until the next morning.

Call that toll-free number and get yourself a Snuggie
Winter temperatures mean winter clothes, so scarves, leg warmers, mittens, and ski masks are not just costume party-appropriate. In fact, they’re encouraged. Break out the fur-lined jackets and moon boots—as long as they have plenty of traction (or you may just end up with a few more bruises and swollen tailbones than you originally had in mind).

Hibernate
Keep in mind that even the rigorous academic schedule of Davidson can be put on hold when everything else slows down. Crawling under blankets with popcorn and boxer shorts will keep you out of the cold and provide a much-needed rest that will fight those runny noses, sore throats, and tuberculosis outbreaks.

Even if you’re like my roommate and were unfamiliar with a car snow scraper until this past weekend, you have plenty of options available for attacking this season with style and warmth!

Wed. 2/3 Thur. 2/4 Fri. 2/5 Sat. 2/6 Sun. 2/7 Mon. 2/8 Tue. 2/9
Coffee and Conver- Political Science Poetry Reading:
sation: Women in the | Brown Bag “Souper Bowl” IV Tony Barnstone &
Dr. Jennings Bryant Middle East 12:30 p.m. 11 a.m.-2p.m. Christine Marshall
Lecture: “Why Did I 3:30-5:00 p.m. Duke International Lilly Family Gallery Shane Claiborne Lec- | 4:30 p.m.
Just Watch That” Duke International | Lounge Super Bowl Sunday!!!/ ture Carolina Inn
7 p.m. Lounge Kickoff at 6:30 p.m. | 7:30 p.m.
Duke Family Perfor- 900 Room
mance Hall Live Thursday: Chris | Tea Time Discussion: | Men’s Basketball vs.
Fezza Can We Disarm? Georgia Southern State of the Union
10:00 p.m. 3:30 p.m. 7:00 p.m. Debate
900 Room 559 Concord Road Belk Arena 7:30 p.m.

Tyler-Tallman Hall