THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2010

Can Haiti plant seeds post-quake?
© ABBEY THIBEAULT
Staff Writer

The recent earthquake in Haiti had a devastating effect on the local economy. A spokesperson for “The Fellowship of Christian
Farmers,” an organization dedicated to disaster relief, believes the best way to help rebuild Haiti is to support the establishment
of independent, sustainable agriculture. The group believes an independent, sustainable agricultural system will help Haiti develop its independence. Granting Haitians
the freedom to develop their own sustainable food network would spur the local economy, foster an independent spirit, and aid
the environment.

Even before the disaster, Haiti ranked 148th out of 179 countries on the United Nations Development Program Human Development Index.
This means 76% of Haitians lived on less than $2 per day and 56% lived on less than $1 per
day. Haiti is considered a “food deficit country.” 48% of food consumed in Haiti is imported and 47% is produced
locally. The remaining 5% is provided by food assistance. In 2008, storms wiped out 70% of local agriculture, and natural
disasters, like the earthquake, only worsen the situation. These percentages lead to queries regarding the effectiveness of Haiti’s large-scale local
agriculture.

Still, prior to 1950, Haiti grew over 80% of its agricultural products locally. Since then, political instability, combined with natural
disasters, has challenged Haiti’s agricultural independence. Organizations like “The Fellowship of Christian Farmers” and WFP, who hope to aid in
establishing a sustainable and locally based farm culture in Haiti, see the country as an opportunity for positive change in
Haiti’s agricultural systems.

Currently, several American food groups are providing emergency aid to Haiti. These include Tyson Foods, Cargill, ConAgra Foods, Hormel Foods,
Yum Brands (which owns KFC, Taco Bell, and Pizza Hut), and McDonald's. Cargill Foods has already packaged and sent 20,000
meals to Haiti, and plans to ship at least 30,000 more meals in the next month. McDonald's donated 50 cents
for every Big Mac sold between January 16 and 22.

Humanitarian organizations are also playing a role. World Food Program, considered the largest humanitarian aid agency dedicated to fighting hunger
worldwide, is also sending food to Haiti. They plan to support Haiti through food distribution and agricultural support. WFP targets
hungry children in orphanages and hospitals. One of the largest relief efforts is sponsored by the United Nations and World
Food Program. Interestingly, only women will be allowed to collect food, distributed from 16 possible locations. Those in need can
exchange vouchers to receive sacks of rice. The goal of the project is to supply enough food for two million
hungry Haitians, just until Haiti gets back up on its feet. Then, these organizations — from large-scale corporations to humanitarian
aid organizations — can proceed to tackle the next challenge: establishing long-term sustainable agriculture in Haiti.

Opera Carolina shows its bohemian side
Opera Carolina’s La Bohéme features, from left, soprano Elizabeth Williams-Grayson as Musetta, baritone David Won as Marcello, tenor Noah Stewart
as Rodolfo, soprano Sandra Lopez as Mimi, baritone Eric Greene as Schaunard, and bass Matthew Trevino as Colline.

BEN IRELAND
Staff Writer

Musical constellations of romance and the mise-en-scène of a brilliant orchestration define La Bohéme, an opera by Giacomo Puccini. Opera
Carolina engages audiences once again with this indelibly heartwarming story latticed with the deft, melodic expression of Puccini’s timeless score.
La Bohéme, which inspired the award-winning Broadway classic, RENT, and the romantic comedy, Moonstruck, follows the fitful love affairs of
the opera’s six bohemian friends in Paris’ Latin Quarter.

“Puccini’s soaring melodies bring life to this touching story of joy and heartache,” says James Meena, Opera General Director and
Principal Conductor. “La Bohéme mixes the passion of youth with great tragedy. Every time I conduct [this opera], it touches
my soul.”

Opera Carolina’s rendition of this timeless classic features four distinguished rising opera stars. Sopranos Sandra Lopez and Elizabeth Williams-Grayson play
Mimi and Musetta, respectively. Tenor Noah Stewart, who fills the role of Rodolfo, and baritone David Won, who plays Marcello,
both graduated from the Metropolitan Opera Studio.

La Bohéme begins on Christmas Eve and follows the love affairs of Mimi and Rodolfo, both of whom cannot find
a way to solidify their romantic relationship. Mimi has moved to England from Romania and works alone as a cleaner
amidst a group of middle-class gentlemen who embody the artistic, Bohemian lifestyle. When Rodolfo falls for Mimi, they discover an
intricate life of art and love. Puccini’s masterpiece is a sinusoid of human emotion, juxtaposing witty humor with deep love
and undercurrents of tragedy.

John Hoomes staged the opera in an inventive and refreshing way. For example, a jubilant swordfight, whose deathblow is delivered
by a baguette, revitalizes the show. Also, the Parisian set in the Third Act impressed.

“I think that’s why [this opera] is so popular. It’s a truthful portrayal of what youth is like.” - James
Meena, DirectorBlue-grey lighting and the gently falling snow enhanced the winter’s ambivalent aura. With regards to music, Lopez and Stewart
stunningly embody Puccini’s musical charisma. In fact, finding a stronger pairing of Rodolfo and Mimi than Opera Carolina’s Lopez and
Stewart would be difficult. The soprano and tenor worked together several years ago in Florida on Carmen. Here, Won delivers
an excellent vocal performance, especially during the scene at the Christmas celebration. Williams-Grayson, playing the fiery red-dressed Musetta, executes vocal
grace against the backdrop of the orchestra’s accompaniment.

“The main characters Rodolfo and Mimi are among the richest and most rewarding in the tenor and soprano repertoires,” said
Nolan Boyd ’12. “But soprano Sandra Lopez far outshone her merely adequate costar Noah Stewart as well as the rest
of the supporting cast. It was basically a ‘Tour de Mimi.’”

“I think we've all experienced that moment of eye-to-eye contact with love at the first moment,” said Meena. “And the
world steps in and teaches our bohemians a lesson. I think that’s why [this opera] is so popular. It’s a
truthful portrayal of what youth is like.”

The coup de grace to such an exhilarating performance was Opera Carolina’s notable ability to produce a live video stream
of La Bohème. Opera lovers both inside and outside of the Blumenthal Performing Arts Center were treated to this Puccini
classic thanks to a sidewalk “Cloud Broadcast” where large screens showed the live performance inside a partially enclosed area just
outside the theater.

Don’t miss Opera Carolina’s forthcoming, not-to-be-missed performance of Carmen. The opera, to be held March 13, stars the internationally acclaimed
opera diva Denyce Graves. Tickets start at just $16 and are currently on sale. Call (704) 372-1000 or visit www.operacarolina.org
to reserve your seats.

TECH TALK: Get to know Google
Josh Haywood, Staff Writer

Since Larry Page and Sergey Brin founded Google, Inc. in 1998, the company has quickly grown to have one of
the most recognizable names on the World Wide Web. Google’s claim to fame, and its most popular service, is the
innovative search engine that handles the vast majority of all internet search traffic. Undoubtedly, you’ve used this service without giving
it a second thought as you make a frantic query to start that paper due tomorrow morning. Aside from using
the search engine, you probably have a Gmail account, even if it’s only to collect spam. For many people, this
is where Google’s product line ends, but if you dive deeper into Google’s offerings, you’ll find many underutilized and surprisingly
convenient services.

If you’re still using Internet Explorer to access the internet, get out of the stone age! Google offers a lightweight
web browser called Chrome that provides better security and a more stable surfing environment by loading each open web page
in a separate tab. This way, if that PDF from Blackboard or Flash video freezes, the rest of your pages
won’t go down, too. In its most recent software update, Chrome also added support for extensions which allows you to
add additional functionality similar to Mozilla Firefox without taking up screen space with countless toolbars. Don’t want to give up
the IE interface you are used to? Google made the switch to Chrome as painless as possible by introducing the
Chrome Frame that installs the guts of Chrome into the IE user interface.

As netbooks are becoming more popular for general computing needs, Google's engineers are developing software to bring their innovative technology
into this niche with a lightweight, completely web-based operating system called Chrome OS. Leaving behind crucial desktop applications like Word
or Excel for a web-based OS may seem impossible, but, in reality, that’s not the case. Google Docs contains web
application versions of word processing, spreadsheet, and presentation software that are fully compatible with MS Office file formats. What’s better
about Google’s system is that you don’t have to e-mail copies of documents to yourself or to collaborators because you
can share them with anyone and changes can be made from any computer.

Google is also developing a new collaborative tool called Google Wave that is still invite-only for testing purposes, but promises
to revolutionize the way people communicate online by combining features of instant messaging, email, and wiki. Google’s web app offerings,
though, don’t stop there. Have several blogs you like to follow? Add the RSS feed to Google Reader and you
can see when a new article is posted in a streamlined format without having to visit each site individually. Another
popular service, Picasa, is an online photo sharing service and also a desktop application that can help you organize your
picture collection. For the student, the Google Scholar search option simplifies locating journal articles and eliminates you from having to
search several databases to find exactly what you’re looking for. Also, if you’re having trouble narrowing down the topic for
your paper, choose one of the broad categories in the Google Directory.

See Google, page 6
