THE DAVIDSONIAN PERSPECTIVES

Where are America’s war heroes?

On January 26, 1945, the soldiers of the United States Army’s B Company, 15th Regiment of the 3rd Infantry Division were holding a position near Holtzwihr, France in two feet of snow and fourteen-degree temperatures. The company (especially the officers) had been decimated by previous days' fighting and was currently at less than half strength. Thus, the leadership fell squarely on the nineteen-year-old shoulders of 2nd Lt. Audie Murphy. The Texan, at age fifteen, tried to enlist in the military just after Pearl Harbor, but was rejected on account of his age. At sixteen, his sister helped him forge his date of birth and the Army accepted his enlistment. Though only nineteen, Murphy had seen heavy action throughout Italy and France and was a seasoned veteran on January 26.

Just miles from the German border, the American company was attacked by six tanks and a 250-strong force of elite German infantry from the ever-so-coolly named Mountain Hunter Division. They soon found mountains preferable to Texans. Murphy ordered his outnumbered and outgunned company back to a tree line while he, in a forward post, called in artillery support. When the officer on the end of the call inquired how close the Germans were to his position, Murphy brazenly replied, “If you just hold the phone a minute, I’ll let you talk to one of the bastards.”

As the enemy tanks began to rumble past his position, Murphy retreated and climbed on top of a burning tank destroyer that had been ditched by its American crew. Even though he had been shot in the leg, he continued to pick off Germans with a .50 cal. machine gun. For the next hour, he single-handedly held the enemy back, at some points only by ten yards. Finally out of ammunition, he crawled back to his troops, refused medical treatment, reorganized the company, led the counter-attack, and forced the Germans to cede the field. Eight months later, he was awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor for his service above and beyond the call of duty.

For Audie Murphy, above and beyond was his call of duty. His actions on January 26th were not an isolated incident. He won the Bronze Star for sneaking up on a tank and dropping grenades down the hatch. He won the Distinguished Service Cross for charging up a hill to an entrenched German machine gun position, eliminating that position and then, after his best friend was killed, going on a rampage and wiping out several more enemy nests. After spending two weeks in a hospital for shrapnel wounds, Murphy returned to his company. Within three days, he earned two Silver Stars. Murphy won every available American medal for bravery, not to mention four French awards and one Belgian honor. At nineteen, Audie Murphy was already more hero than man (or in his case, teenager).

We are roughly 65 years past Audie Murphy’s heroics. During his time, his name and the names of Doolittle, Boyington, Bradley, Patton, MacArthur, and Nimitz meant something to this country. What names mean something to our country today? During his time, the United States had a President willing and meaning to say, “As Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy I have directed that all measures be taken for our defense, that always will our whole nation remember the character of the onslaught against us. No matter how long it may take us to overcome this premeditated invasion, the American people, in their righteous might, will win through to absolute victory... Hostilities exist. There is no blinking at the fact that our people, our territory, and our interests are in grave danger. With confidence in our armed forces, with the unbounding determination of our people, we will gain the inevitable triumph. So help us God.” Is this the attitude we witness today? Is this the action we witness today?

Bobby DesPain ’11 is a biology major from St. Louis.

The pendulum of Ros O’DONNELL

Guest Columnist

Case One: A sovereign nation assists tribal elders in their efforts to expel foreign invaders from one of the most uninhabitable countries on earth. This nation provides significant logistical support and military ammunitions to aid the tribal “freedom fighters” as part of their own proxy war against the foreign aggressor. As casualties mount and the freedom fighters’ resolve stands firm, the foreign invaders cut their losses and flee back over their own border. Years go by and this desolate country quickly slips back into the irrelevant oblivion of the nation’s foreign affairs. Hardened by thousands of years of war against foreign armies, ravaged by a booming drug trade and increasingly powerful tribal warlords, and Godforsaken by its economic destitution, mountainous landscape, and lack of infrastructure, this country quickly becomes a safe haven for terrorists. Terrorists use this country as a training ground and launch point for the deadliest terrorist attack in human history against the sovereign nation, who once helped expel foreign aggressors. The sovereign nation once again takes an active role in the isolated country: overthrowing the country’s repressive regime and initiating special operations to eliminate terrorist threats within the region. Years go by and once again the country slips back into irrelevant oblivion. The ousted repressive regime regains its foothold and makes inroads towards provincial control and terrorists once again exploit the country as a safe haven. For the third time, the sovereign nation dispatches significant resources to this desolate country.

Case Two: An upstart automobile company revolutionizes the manufacturing industry by incorporating the assembly line into its production. Over the subsequent decades, the company grows at a prodigious rate, becoming synonymous with name brands like Coca-Cola and US Steel. As the company’s empire expands, other foreign automobile companies come to their headquarters to study their business plan and world-renowned manufacturing assembly lines in order to emulate their success. Decades go by with year after year of financial success, but its workforce grows along with the strength of its union and the size of its compensation packages. Laden with burgeoning costs stemming from an untenable long-term business plan and losing revenue from foreign competition in the marketplace, the company surrenders its once dominant perch in the automobile industry. After years of bottom lines marked by red ink and a brain...Drain of innovative vehicles, the company faces the imminent risk of bankruptcy. Confronted with the harsh reality of reform-or-die, the company changes leadership and makes several bold decisions to stave off MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu. For the first time in years, the company posts a profit.

Case Three: A political party sweeps the election cycle, winning the presidency and picking up seats in both the House and the Senate. Having garnered a super majority in both chambers, the party is poised to pass health care legislation that they’ve been clamoring over for more than four decades. Months are spent deliberating and debating; Senators and Congressmen spend day and night slaving over a single issue. While unemployment rises to double digits, health care stays at the forefront of the legislative calendar. Job creation and stagnant wages stay on the backburner. Just as the House and Senate have passed the bill and the final deals are being cut to ensure finalization in time for the president’s State of the Union speech, the party stumbles over the final hurdle in their way: the special election in Massachusetts. The party stands humbled and embarrassed. The following morning after the special election, the party awakes from its soporific slumber: jobs are now priority number one.

The human psyche is like a pendulum swinging back and forth as we confront the challenges of the hour. But too often, the swing of the pendulum dictates our policy. For we focus not on the ball swinging towards us, but the force upon which the ball is being sent. And as we move from one issue to the next, our eyes focus solely on a single ball casting all others deep into the periphery. It’s our inability to juggle multiple balls and gauge the actual speed at which they’re being sent that shake the foundation of long-term strategic planning and prudent judgment on the macro and micro levels.

As you’ve determined by now, the three sample cases were America’s intervention in Afghanistan, the rise and near fall of Ford Automobiles, and the Democrats' failure to enact health care legislation in 2009. In Afghanistan, we had to be reminded twice that our commitment to National Security runs through the Khyber Pass. Ford had to be brought to a knee by the companies it once inspired in order to set out on the path to fiscal responsibility, and the Democrats had to lose Kennedy’s seat to discover priority number one. All three instances showcase where success early on led to stagnation or oversight at a later date, only to be once again resurrected in dire circumstances. These cases highlight that the solution lies not in reactionary policy but in taking a broader perspective of the balls in play and placing an emphasis on the clarity and continuity of our mission.

Now, the balls have once again been reshuffled. And, as we focus upon job growth, upcoming midterm elections, and a mounting deficit, we must remember the pendulum is always swinging.

Rob O'Donnell ’10 is a Classics major from Chevy Chase, MD. Contact him at roodonnell@davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2010

Ranking Barcelona’s accomplishment in history is difficult, and to call this the best of all time is a difficult claim to make. There will always be those that swear the Real Madrid squad of the ’60s that won 6 straight European crowns, or the Scottish team Celtic of 1964 that won 4 trophies in a single season, is the best side of all time. Enter Manchester United, Ajax, or PSV Eindhoven into the debate (all three sides took home the European, the Domestic League, and the Domestic Tournament Crowns in one season), and one has an argument that could last until the end of time. However, one would have a tough time not crowning the 2009 Barcelona squad as the best team of all time because of how the team achieved success.

Barcelona’s accomplishments are unique because they won by playing soccer with such grace that it could rival the brilliance of a Mozart symphony. In a day when physical brutishness and rigid defensive discipline are often the way, Barcelona’s starting line-up were players molded in the club’s world-class academy, La Masia, emphasizing technical skill and ability. Sure, the Yankees can do it in baseball, but soccer is an entirely different animal when taking into account that eleven big egos need to be set aside for 90 continuous minutes in order to achieve a common goal.

I should also mention that Barcelona’s coach was in his first season with the team after growing up in the youth system and playing for the team for several seasons. Pep Guardiola was coach of the Barcelona B team before Joan Laporta decided to take what seemed to be an immense risk and hand over the reins. The team’s first official match was a defeat to Numancia at home in front of 60,000 demanding fans, and it looked like the season was destined to be a disaster. Barcelona compounded the difficult position by tying the next match. Nobody in the crowd that day could have predicted that Barcelona, at the end of December, would have the Spanish La Liga, Copa Del Rey, UEFA Champions League, Spanish Super Cup, UEFA Super Cup, and FIFA Club World Cup titles. Highlights of the season included a 6-2 thrashing of Real Madrid, Andres Iniesta’s remarkable goal in London in stoppage time (a goal that booked Barcelona’s ticket to Rome where they saw off heavy favorite Chelsea in typical Barcelona fashion), and Lionel Messi’s game-winning goal in overtime in the Club World Cup Final. After the whistle in the United Arab Emirates, Guardiola just stood in the middle of the field surrounded by jubilant players and started sobbing. Finally, the man who led Barcelona through battle after battle was able to take a break from his usual calm demeanor and let tears of joy stream down his tired face.

For as long as humanity has the privilege of watching the beautiful game, no team will ever outdo Barcelona’s 2009 season. The best any other side can do is to equal Barcelona’s record. Consider the point that the team is undefeated in the league: no one can argue the squad has...