6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Style, from page 5

look is so prevalent on campus. After a rough practice, game or really, any day, varsity athletes proudly sport their
team gear. Jennie Mostellar '11, Field Hockey star and sweatsuit lover, boldly offered this sentiment: “I don’t have anything to
say about them, I just love them.” We’re not jealous...

3) The V-Neck: Whether purchased from Walmart or J. Crew, this seductively cut tee is a closet “must” for any
fashion-forward college student, boy or girl. A basic Hanes can turn your average Sperry-wearing fraternity boy into the alternative skater-boy
of Avril Lavigne’s dreams.

As Brett Chikowski, '11, testified, “Switching to v-necks has really accelerated my game.” And its transformative powers don’t stop there.
The rainbow-colored unisex v-necks of the ultra-trendy American Apparel can turn any drab, t-shirt-wearing girl into a bombshell in sweats.
Let’s be honest, no one really looks that great in tees, but if you’re a lazy fashionista, then get yourself
to Target and buy the $12 three-pack of v-necks.

4) The Snuggie: First of all, if this word instantly doesn’t inspire a warm sensation from your heart, then you
must not have a soul. While critics may belittle this revolutionary blanket-with-sleeves, calling it “only a backwards robe,” there’s no
denying the sheer innovative genius of a blanket you can wear while making macaroni and cheese. The truth is, those
bitter critics just weren’t prepared for the nationwide phenomenon that would leave them frantically searching all of the Bed, Bath
& Beyonds in their state for that one, rare Snuggie still on the shelf.

Although true fans own the original, fuchsia-colored Snuggie sported by an enthusiastic blonde in the infectious infomercial, there are indeed
new designs. Options range from the one with the Steelers logo to another with zebra print, for all of the
unique people out there. Allergic to fleece, happiness or comfort? Then buy a Snuggie for your dog. The pint-sized versions
are now available for purchase online or from many local retailers.

5) The Bumpit: There’s no denying the appeal of the poof, that mountainous pile of perfectly hairsprayed hair refusing to
budge no matter the times you drop it down low on the dance floor. Not only does the height of
the bump mark the power of the guidette, but even a short mound can turn the intelligent liberal arts college
girl into a Club Karma VIP. How then do I go about creating this ‘do, one might ask? Buy the
Bumpit!

Available in black, brown, medium blonde and light blonde, this hair volumizing insert is your sure-fire answer. Sure, Snookie may
have invented it, but the Bumpit has perfected it. Did I mention it comes in small, medium and large?

However you choose to express your personal style, just remember to rock it with confidence. At Davidson, anything goes!

In the articles we wrote last semester, Abbey and I recommended that Davidson students try to eat locally and seasonally.
Well, that may seem easy during the late spring, summer and early fall, but what about now? You may be
asking, “How am I supposed to eat locally in the dead of winter?” The answer is the Davidson Farmer’s Market.

Students and community members know about the town’s market, but many do not realize that it now runs continuously throughout
the year. In the winter months, there is a scaled-back “tailgate” market every other Saturday. Even though this market is
smaller than during other seasons, a plethora of fresh vegetables, delicious baked treats and every type of meat imaginable abound.

Last Saturday, I headed to the market with trepidations—I worried it would offer much less food and variety than previous
markets. I was, thankfully, wrong.

This market was the best that I had ever seen. Vibrant orange carrots, beets, sweet potatoes, winter squash and various
greens like arugula and Swiss chard. In addition to these winter vegetables, Barbee Farms had fresh green berries for sale,
which tasted just as good as they looked. There was also bread in many different varieties like wheat and sourdough,
chocolate chip and peanut butter cookies. One of my favorite vendors, Chef Charles, a caterer from France who uses mostly
local ingredients, attended. He sold homemade apple pie, frozen butternut squash soup and a pumpkin and fennel soup, and his
famous fresh baked baguette bread.

The meat options were endless. I found myself frantically searching all of the stalls for the best cuts. The market
was open until 12 pm.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2010

Wed. 1/27 Thur. 1/28 Fri. 1/29 Sat. 1/30 Sun. 1/31 Mon. 2/1 Tue. 2/2
Jobs Fair Breakfast Series: Crisis in Haiti “Nuances” Bank of America
Union Atrium Blackout Belk 8 a.m., Audiences Lecture Series:
4:30 p.m. Men’s Basketball v. | Duke 112 2 p.m., Violin Studio “Addressing Amer-
College of Charles- DCPC Student Recital ica’s Energy Chal-
ton “Inglorious Center 7:30 p.m., lenges,” 7:30 p.m.,
7 p.m., Basterds” Tyler-Tallman Hall Dr. Steven Koonin
Belk Arena 9 p.m. & Midnight, Join Davidson’s 7:30 p.m.,
900 Room newest a capella 900 Room
group!
